132 Dr. R. von Willemoes-Sulim on the [ Dec. 9 , IY .
The metamorphosis of the Cypris into the young Lepas .
1 .
The pupae are chiefly caught at the very surface of the sea , where they swarm round the dead Velellae , on which they settle .
They rarely take to a colony of old barnacles .
2 .
Soon after settling the new cirri are formed underneath the natatory feet , the head grows out , the eyes are absorbed , and under the ( 7y^\gt ; m-shell the primordial valves of the young Lepas appear , which persist during its whole life .
The Cyjpm-shell , with the old natatory feet , is then thrown off .
3 .
The young Lepas begins to form the complete shell , and fastens itself more and more by the copious secretions of its glands , which run through the outdrawn and enlarged head into the fixing-antennae .
4 .
The cirri of the young Lepas develop a larger number of joints , the shell begins to lose its transparency , the body inside turns over a little , as has been described by Darwin , and the young Lepas is complete .
Conclusion .
1 .
As the young stages of the Lepadidae are pelagic , it is only possible to work out their development at sea , and there at certain-seasons .
We found only onee before the large Nauplii of Lepas australis .
The development of no one of the Lepadidae has hitherto been known in full ; and it seems that even the adult larvae of our commonest barnacles , such as L. anatifera and L. aserifera , are as yet unknown .
2 .
The Nauplius stages of Lepas fascicularis have not a different morphological value from those of Balanus and other genera ; therefore there is no reason for giving to this stage a particular name .
The term " Archizoea " may remain as a remembrance of Dohm 's interesting discovery , but cannot be applied to the larvae of other Lepadidae .
H.M.S. * Challenger , ' Honolulu , July 28 , 1875 .
III .
" Preliminary Remarks on the Development of some Pelagic Decapods/ * By R. von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , Naturalist to the ' Challenger * Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. C. Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. Received September 28 , 1875 .
Since we left Australia I have investigated the metamorphoses of some Crustacea which have been constantly caught by us on the surface of the tropical and subtropical parts of the Pacific .
Though these investigations will be continued , I have now arrived at certain results which I think will not be uninteresting to zoologists .
The genera to which these remarks refer are Amphion , Serg , and Leucifer .
Amphion Reynaudi has been on our lists as an animal " incertce sedis " ( Milne-Edwards ) for nearly forty years , until Dohrn proved that a full1875 .
] Development of some Pelagic Decapods .
133 grown specimen of it , which he dissected , was in possession of branchiae and of an ovary , therefore no doubt a mature form .
He also described one of its young stages , which has the number of appendages of a , but in which caudal appendages are already developed .
On our voyages in the * Challenger * we have caught several specimens of Amphion and of its larvae ; and I am now able to produce drawings , not only of the true Zoea with a simple telson , but also of all the intermediate stages between it and the adult form with two , three , four , five , and six pairs of walking-legs .
Of the full-grown Amphion I have examined three specimens , two of which are undoubtedly males , as the testes ( and the branchiae ) were plainly visible , the former opening into the last pair of legs .
There is now no doubt that Amphion is not a larva , nay , even that there are several species and perhaps genera of this remarkable form .
We have caught two very interesting mature animals which are certainly closely allied to Amphion .
One of these has enormously long eye-stalks , which , having a length of 7 millims. , are just as long as the whole animal 's body .
Another form has got very long eye-stalks too , but is especially remarkable for the antepenultimate joints of its pereiopods , being large paddle-shaped organs , terminated by a very small end-joint .
Both have got , like Amphion , a central ( Nauplial ) eye and eight pairs of branched legs ; but their body is more Sergestes-like and less flat than that of Amphion .
They certainly belong both to the same genus , and may be called Amphiones until more than one specimen of each has been obtained .
To me these Amphionidse are especially interesting , as I can compare them with the larvae of Sergestes and Leucifer , the former of which have also got eight pairs of branched legs and the central eye which persists in the Amphionidae .
There are good reasons for the statement that the larvae of Leucifer and Sergestes pass through an Amphion stage ; and this , it seems to me , throws a good deal of light on the relations and systematical position of Amphion itself .
Dohrn , to whom we owe so many fine discoveries concerning the pelagic Crustacea , has described * , under the name of Elaphocaris , a small and very spiny Zoea caught in the harbour of Messina .
He calls it the larva of a Decapod without fixing its position .
This small larva was often seen by me in the ' Atlantic ; but I only lately found out that Elaphocaris is the larva of a species , or rather of some species , of Sergestes .
There is , however , one species of this genus in which the Zoea is not an Elaphocaris , but a larger , less spiny form , similar , however , in all other respects to the former .
Of the species which develops with an Elaphocaris stage in the Western Pacific , I have collected numerous specimens of all the stages , from the youngest Zoeas up to the mature animal .
The * V. Siebold und Kollikef , Zeitschrift fur wissenscliaftliclie Zoologie , Band xx , p. 662 , tab .
31 .
fig. 28 .
134 On the Development of some Pelagic Decapods .
[ Dec. 16 .
mode of development is very simple .
After the first moulting the larva gets six more branched legs and loses many spines .
It enters the Amphion stage , then moults , throws the branched legs off , gets branchial , and becomes a young Sergestes .
Only after this last moulting the central eye , hitherto present , disappears .
And very similar to that of Sergestes is the development of Here the earliest Zoea of a species from the Western Pacific has got at first no eyes , then sessile ones come out , and the animal then presents the form which Dana has called E , and which Claus suspected to be not a Stomatopod but a Schizopod larva .
After the second moulting this Erichthina gets stalked eyes and very long setae on all its appendages , becoming a rather long , very delicate Zoea .
It now enters the Amphion stage , but never gets more than four pairs of perekn-pods , and loses another pair of these when it moults for the youngest Leucifer stage , in which two pairs of pereiopods are absent .
The next question , after having found this out , was , of course , whether Amphion , Sergestes , and Leucifer leave the egg as a , or whether there is a preceding Nauplius stage .
My own impression is that in the two first-named genera this is not the case , as the youngest Zoeas which I caught had all the same size , and as none of them was without the large lateral stalked eyes .
As for L , the question appears to me to be doubtful ; for it is , from what I have seen , quite possible that my youngest Zoea , which has only got a central eye , may be preceded by a Nauplius .
Of course the simplest thing would be to get the eggs ; but there is the difficulty , for Amphion is caught very rarely , and has never been obtained at any other time but between 8 and 12 p.m. , when it is extremely difficult by lamplight to find out the youngest stages .
Sergestes larvae are commoner , appearing also in the daytime , and Leucifer is sometimes caught in abundance .
I hope , therefore , that I shall succeed in completing my researches about this question , especially as far as the two latter genera are concerned .
H.M.S. ' Challenger , ' Honolulu , Sandwich Islands , July 30 , 1875 .
December 16 , 1875 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ;

