484 Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2 , February 2 , 1893 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " A New Portable Miner 's Safety-lamp , with Hydrogen Attachment for Delicate Gas-testing ; with Exact Measurements of Flame-cap Indications furnished by this and other Testing Lamps .
" By Frank Clowes , D.Sc .
Lond. , Professor of Chemistry , University College , Nottingham .
Communicated by Professor Armstrong , F.R.S. Received January 10 , 1893 .
Introductory .
The presence of firedamp is still almost invariably detected , and its amount is more or less accurately measured , by the observation of the pale blue " cap " produced by the " gas " over the flame of the safety-lamp .
By suitably reducing the flame of an ordinary oil safety-lamp by drawing down the wick , it is generally considered that percentages of gas in the air varying from about 2'5 to 6 can be detected and estimated .
The upper limit is that at which an inflammable mixture is approached .
The lower limit reached by this method of testing is , however , not considered sufficiently low , and for two reasons .
W. Galloway has shown ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 24 , p. 361 ) that air containing less than 1 per cent , of gas becomes explosive when it is mingled with fine coal-dust ; hence the ordinary safety-lamp test for gas is incapable of indicating a dangerous state of the atmosphere in dusty mines .
And , further , even in the absence of coal-dust in the air of the mine , it is necessary to test the " returns , " or the ventilation currents as they leave the working " districts " and the mine , in order to ascertain whether the general ventilation of the mine is well distributed and sufficient .
It is stated by high authorities that the " main return " air should not contain more than 05 per cent , of " gas , " and that 1 per cent , should never be reached .
An ordinary oil safety-lamp gives no indications with 1 per cent , or less of gas .
During the last twelve years several forms of gas-testing apparatus 1893.1 A New Portable Miner 's Safety-lamp .
485 have been introduced with the object of enabling percentages of gas as low as 0*5 , and even as 025 , to be determined .
The lower proportion , 025 per cent. , is considered to be low enough for all practical purposes .
Of these apparatus , the following are considered to effect their purpose satisfactorily : E. H. Liveing 's electrical indicator ( ' Physical Soc , Proc. , ' June , 1880 ) : Er .
Pieler 's alcohol-lamp , described in a pamphlet ( 'Ueber einfachen Methoden zur TJntersuchung der Gru-benwetter , ' Aachen , 1883 ) : and an apparatus brought forward by Coquillon and by others , which depends upon measuring the reduction of pressure produced in a confined volume of the mine-air when the firedamp is burnt out of it , this being effected by maintaining the air in contact with a metallic wire rendered incandescent by an electric current .
Apart from general considerations of convenience and of safety when these apparatus are in use in the mine , a serious objection to .each of them is that it is by no means small or light , and that it must be carried together with an ordinary safety-lamp , since it does not itself serve for illuminating the darkness of the mine .
The Liveing apparatus has recently been proved by James Grundy , working with my test-chamber , to give very accurate readings of " gas " varying in percentage from 0T1 to 2'2 ; but he found the platinum wire exposed to the gas to be subject to changes when in use , which make the apparatus difficult to maintain in working order and which sometimes render it useless .
There seems to be a general disposition amongst all classes interested in mining to improve , if possible , the flame-cap test , rather than to resort to other methods for securing accuracy and delicacy in gas-testing .
This object was in some measure attained by MM .
Mallard and Le Chatelier in 1881 ( 'Annales des Mines , ' 7th Ser. , vol. 19 , p. 186 ) , by suitably screening the reduced oil flame of the safety-lamp , and then viewing its tip against a black background of cloth or of blackened metal sheet .
It is stated that a slight indication was obtained by this means when the percentage of gas present was as low as 05 .
The lamp , however , suffered a loss of illuminating power when its flame was turned up , owing to the obstruction of the screens .
The indications of the lower percentages were also confessedly extremely slight and feeble ; they are further rendered uncertain by the fact that an oil-flame itself gives a feeble cap-like mantle .
Still the improved lamp has the advantage of being at once an illuminator and also a gas-tester of greater delicacy than the lamps in ordinary use .
The inventors of this improved oil-lamp state that they consider the hydrogen flame to be superior to any other for gas-testing .
They ascertained that this flame would detect 0'25 per cent , of gas ; but 2x2 Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. they do not publish any farther account of its indications , apparently because their attempt to introduce the hydrogen flame into a safety-lamp was altogether unsuccessful .
Pieler was also so much impressed with the advantages obtained by the use of a hydrogen flame for gas-testing , that , failing to apply this flame to a portable lamp , he still recommended ( loc. the application of the hydrogen flame , fed by a chemical generator , in a stationary apparatus above ground , to testing samples of mine-air which were conveyed to it .
He confesses that his alcohol-lamp is only a substitute for the impossible hydrogen-lamp , which he would evidently recommend if it were available .
The alterations recently made by M. Chesneau ( ' Annals des Mines , ' August , 1892 , p. 208 ) in the Pieler lamp would therefore probably not have been recommended by the original inventor of the alcohol lamp , if a portable hydrogen lamp had been in existence ; and although they add to the safety of the lamp , they do so by rendering the lamp self-extinguishing in moderately high percentages of gas .
The extinction of the testing-lamp is a serious inconvenience to the gas-tester , and will not prove to be a recommendation to him .
The Pieler lamp further labours under the serious disadvantage that the pale caps have to be observed through wire gauze , which obstructs much of their light .
The caps become actually invisible if the gauze around the lamp is bright and reflective , as it frequently is in a new lamp .
When samples of air can be conveniently collected and carried to a testing station , no arrangement will be found more convenient and delicate than a hydrogen flame of standard size , fed by a large cylinder of the compressed gas .
The flame-cap is then observed in a dark room against a dead-black ground , and its height is noted .
A portable hydrogen safety-flame will , however , be found to be much more convenient , as it can be carried to the spot where the test is to be made .
The troublesome collection and transport of bulky air samples are thus avoided .
A Portable Safety-lamp with interchangeable Oil and Hydrogen Flames .
An arrangement for introducing a standard hydrogen flame into any ordinary form of safety-lamp has been already described ( 'Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 51 , p. 90 ) .
The requisite supply of hydrogen was contained in a compressed state in a steel cylinder , which was similar to those in common use , but of much smaller dimensions .
The cylinder was slung from the shoulder by a strap , and was connected when necessary with the lamp by means of a length of flexible tubing .
On slightly opening the valve of the cylinder , the 1893 .
] A New Portable Miner s Safety-lamp .
hydrogen was fed through a copper tube of very fine bore within the lamp to a jet terminating beside and just above the wick of the lamp .
This copper tube passed through the oil reservoir of the lamp .
The hydrogen having been kindled by the lamp-flame , the wick was drawn down by the " pricker " until the oil-flame was extinguished .
The hydrogen flame was then set to a standard height of 10 mm. by regulating the very tapering cylinder-valve , whilst looking across a vertical 10 mm. wire fixed on the wick-holder in front of the hydrogen flame .
The flame-cap was then looked for against a dead-black background , produced by smoking with a taper a vertical strip half an inch wide upon the interior of the back of the lamp-glass .
The lamp-glass was specially made of greater length than usual , so as to enable the whole of a flame-cap 60 mm. in height to be seen .
The height of any flame-cap thus observed was estimated by comparing it with the standard 10 mm. hydrogen flame , or , if the flame had increased in height , by taking the vertical wire as the fixed 10 mm. standard of measurement .
When the observation of the flame-cap had been completed , the lamp-wick was pushed up once more against the hydrogen flame ; and as soon as the oil-flame had been kindled , the hydrogen was shut off by the valve of the cylinder , and the flexible tube was disconnected from the lamp .
The whole process of producing the standard hydrogen flame within the ordinary safety-lamp was very simple and was very rapid iy effected ; and the change from the oil flame to the hydrogen flame , and the converse , presented no difficulty .
A litt.e practice enabled the operator to turn on the hydrogen sufficiently slowly , if the valve was properly constructed ; and a little care sufficed to prevent the extinction of the hydrogen flame by sudden shocks imparted to the flexible connecting tube .
This form of apparatus appears to be suitable for many purposes .
But practical mining men objected to the unnecessarily large weight and dimensions of the hydrogen cylinder , and to the inconvenience of the connecting tube .
For making one 's way along rough and awkward passages underground something more compact and light was requisite .
After many experimental forms of apparatus had been tried , a little steel cylinder directly and rigidly attachable to the safety-lamp was adopted .
It is shown attached to Ashworth 's modified lamp in fig. 1 .
The sectional drawings represent the key of the valve below the cylinder ; it is in reality at the side and is detachable ; the attachment of the cylinder to the lamp is also not accurately represented in the sections .
This cylinder may be adapted to any other form of safety-lamp , but for several reasons Ashworth 's lamp has been preProf .
F. Clowes .
Fig. 1 .
[ Feb. 2 , ferred .
The cylinder is made of hydraulic steel tube ; it is 5 inches in length by 1 inch in diameter , and barely exceeds 1 lb. in weight .
It can be instantaneously attached to the lamp by a quarter turn ; a clip arrangement then holds it firmly at both ends ; it is as quickly detachable .
When the cylinder is not attached , the lamp is an ordinary safety-lamp .
The cylinder , when attached , forms a most convenient strong and rigid handle at the side of the lamp , by which the lamp may be supported in the left hand while the hydrogen flame is being adjusted by the right .
The whole process of passing from the bright flame to the hydrogen flame and back again to the bright flame , including a hydrogen-flame test , is easily effected in thirty seconds .
The process of testing is precisely that described above for the cylinder with flexible lamp connexion .
The little cylinder is charged with hydrogen by connecting it with a larger store cylinder of the gas under a compression which may vary between 120 and 60 atmospheres .
When charged at 100 atmospheres pressure , it furnished the standard 10-mm .
flame , burning continuously , for about 40 minutes .
This would be an ample supply of hydrogen for one inspection of a mine , since the hydrogen flame would only be used occasionally , and then for very short intervals only .
If a longer service is required , a cylinder of the same diameter , but of greater length , and of capacity half as great again , may be adapted to the lamp .
Or one or more reserve cylinders can be easily carried in the pocket .
The small cylinder may be charged sufficiently for use several hundred times from a large cylinder under 120 atmospheres pressure .
1893 .
] A New Portable Miner 's Safety-lamp .
When " gas " is being tested for in the mine , the examination would first be made in the usual way by carefully and gradually drawing down the wick , watching continuously meanwhile through the well-cleaned glass , with the dead-black smoked background already described , whether at any stage a cap appears over the flame .
If a distinct cap within the limits of the glass should be seen , the percentage of gas will be between 3 and 6 ; by noting the height of the cap as judged against the standard 10-mm .
wire , the percentage of gas can be ascertained with very fair accuracy , as is proved below .
If no satisfactory cap can be seen over the reduced oil flame , and small percentages of gas have to be looked for , the hydrogen cylinder is attached to the lamp , the standard hydrogen flame is produced within the lamp , and a cap is looked for over the flame .
This standard flame will readily indicate and measure percentages varying from 0'25 to 3 : the caps being easily seen and readily measured by comparing their heights with that of the hydrogen flame or of the standard wire .
The cap corresponding to 0'25 of gas is very pale , and is somewhat hazy and ill-defined at its edge ; the cap with 0'5 per cent , is somewhat more dense and well-defined ; but both these caps are easily seen even by an inexperienced eye .
The dimensions of the caps given by less than 1 per cent , of gas can be much increased by turning up the hydrogen flame to 15 mm. ( see Hi Hi , figs. 5 , 6 ) .
Similarly , the cap indications of the standard hydrogen flame , which exceed the height of the lamp-glass when more than 3 per cent , of gas is present , can be brought within the visible limits by reducing the flame , while in the presence of the gas , to 5 mm. ( see H2 H2 , figs. 5 , 6 ) .
These higher percentages of gas may in this way be estimated by means of the hydrogen flame , instead of by the reduced oil flame .
It has been occasionally noticed that , when the hydrogen flame is allowed to bum for a long time within the lamp , the lower part of the lamp-glass becomes cool , owing to the feeble radiative power of the flame ; drops of water then condense upon the glass and interfere with the accurate observation of the flame and of the cap. If this should occur , it is only necessary to turn on the oil flame for a short time ; and this , by its superior lateral radiation , rapidly dissipates the water .
It will be readily understood that the main advantages resulting from the use of the hydrogen flame are the following:\#151 ; 1 .
The flame is non-luminous , whatever its dimensions may be , and therefore does not interfere with the perception of the cap , and does not require to be screened from the eye .
2 .
The flame can always be adjusted at once to standard height , and Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2 , maintained at that height sufficiently long for the completion of the test ; whereas other testing flames are constantly varying in dimensions , and most of them cannot be set to standard siae at all with any certainty .
Thus a colza-petroleum flame , exposed in air containing a low percentage of gas , when twice adjusted , gave caps of 8 and of 20 mm. The reduced oil-flame also fell so quickly that cap-readings with low percentages of gas could not be taken at all .
3 .
The caps produced over the hydrogen flame are larger than those produced by any flame of corresponding size .
4 .
The size of the hydrogen flame can therefore be so far reduced as to enable it to be used in an ordinary safety-lamp .
The size of the flame may further be suitably varied , so as to increase or decrease the height of the cap , and thus either increase the delicacy of the test or extend its range .
5 .
The standard hydrogen flame shows no trace of mantle or cap in air free from gas ; it shows only a slender thread above its apex .
The colza-petroleum and the benzoline flames show pale mantles in gas-free air , which may be easily mistaken for a small percentage of gas .
6 .
The standard hydrogen flame burns vigorously , and is of fair size , and therefore cannot be extinguished by accident ; whereas the reduced flames , ordinarily used in testing , burn feebly and are readily lost .
7 .
Hydrogen is supplied fairly pure and of practically invariable composition ; whereas commercial oil and alcohol are apt to vary much in composition , and therefore to give flames whose indications change with the sample of liquid which is being burnt .
The Precise Measurement of Flame-caps .
The flame-caps in a long series of observations , of which the results are here stated , were observed in the test-chamber already described ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 50 , p. 122 and vol. 51 , p. 87 ) .
This apparatus has been made more convenient for use by slinging the water-tray , which effects the closure of the chamber below , from the bottom of the chamber by four rods which furnish a kind of parallel motion .
The tray can thus be pushed back and again brought into position , and be maintained throughout in a horizontal position .
It has also been found necessary to introduce a small circular trap-door in the floor of the chamber , and just behind the window .
When an oil-lamp is placed over this opening , its flame can be readily adjusted by the " pricker " from outside , without removing the lamp from the 1893 .
] A New Portable Miner 's .
chamber .
The chamber was found to clear itself of gas in two minutes when both top and bottom apertures were left open .
With the bottom aperture only opened , it stood for five minutes without appreciable change occurring in the composition of its internal atmosphere .
Precautions were always taken , before commencing the measurements of caps , to make the eye as sensitive as possible , more especially when observing the paler caps .
This was effected by remaining in a dark room for some time .
The interior of the test-chamber and the back of the lamp-glass received a dead-black coat : and advantage was gained by coating in the same way all those brass parts of the lamp which could receive and reflect the light of the flame or cap. Very feeble daylight was found to cause much more serious interference than full gaslight did , with the observation of the cap. A suggestion made by Professor H. B. Dixon was found of great advantage when examining feeble caps ; the eye was directed on the side of the lamp , instead of directly upon the cap ; the pale image of the cap was thus formed upon a very sensitive part of the retina , and the cap was much more readily seen than when it was observed directly .
All attempts to measure the heights of flame-caps by means of graduated scales fixed within the lamp ended in failure , since the light emitted by the cap near its summit was far too feeble to illuminate the scale .
The method of measurement ultimately adopted , which has served for making many hundred readings , is described below .
An ordinary flat parallel-ruler was pressed against the window of the chamber in a horizontal position ( fig. 2 ) , and supported a vertical Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2 , strip of paper between it and the glass .
The flat front surfaces of the rule were rendered feebly luminous by means of luminous paint , so that their position could be seen in the dark .
The rule was then carefully adjusted so as to exactly include the cap between its inner edges : the cap being considered to extend downwards from its apex to the tip of the flame .
The position of the inner edges of the rule were then marked upon the paper strip by means of a sharply pointed pencil ; and the distance thus marked was read off on a millimetre rule .
This height was manifestly less than the height of Fig. 3 .
Flame .
Wj , riclow .
-80m.nt \#151 ; -------150 m.m. the cap , and was corrected by multiplying it by the distance between the eye and the cap ( 230 mm. ) , and dividing the product by the distance between the eye and the glass ( 150 mm. ) .
It may be mentioned that every reading was made in duplicate ; most readings were repeated many times , and in many cases were taken by more than one observer .
Successive readings of the cap produced by the standard hydrogen flame in the same percentage of gas were frequently identical , and rarely differed by more than 1 mm. In the case of flames which could not be brought with certainty to an invariable standard condition , the readings were naturally less constant , but this arose from no fault in the method of measurement adopted .
The lamps used for testing should be kept clean .
Small open-ings protected by gauze must , if above , be especially kept free from obstructive deposits of soot from the flame ; and , if below , must be cleansed from films of oil , which may close the meshes of the gauze entirely .
* It is noticed generally , that the caps produced by low percentages of gas are pale and wanting in density and definition .
As the percentage of gas increases , the cap gains in size , in density , and in definition , and wraps round the flame to its very base .
The testing flame also increases gradually in dimensions as the percentage of gas rises , and in the presence of 3 per cent , of gas and upwards the testing flame becomes more bulky , growing both in height and in girth .
It is therefore important to note that the 10-mm .
hydrogen-flame was adjusted in gas-free air , because its size did not materially alter until over 3 per cent , of gas was present ; the 15-mm .
and 5-mm .
flames , 1893 .
] A New Portable Miner 's Safety-lamp .
493 however , were adjusted in the presence of tho " gas " which was being estimated .
Results of Flame-cap Measurements in Air containing Methane ( Firedamp ) .
The gas used for these experiments was prepared by the usual chemical method , which consists in strongly heating an intimate mixture of dried sodium acetate with caustic soda and slaked lime .
This product cannot claim to consist of pure methane , but , judging by the constant results which it yielded in the test-chamber , the gas must at least have been of fairly constant composition .
The lamp-flames used were of the following dimensions , some of which are approximate only .
They are drawn to size in fig. 4 , the dimensions being shown in millimetres and in inches :\#151 ; Height in mm. Diameter at broadest part in mm. f 10 5 Hydrogen flame ( round ) \lt ; 15 5 6 4 l Pieler flame ( round , conical ) 30 13 w Benzoline flame ( round , conical ) ... . .
3 7 Oil flame ( flat , slightly conical ) 3 6 \#177 ; o 13 The 10-mm .
hydrogen flame was adjusted to its height in gas-free air ; it remained unaltered in height until 3 per cent , of gas was reached , when its height increased by from 2 to 3 mm. The 15-mm .
and 5-mm .
hydrogen flames were adjusted to height in the presence of the gas .
The Pieler , the benzoline , and the blue oil-flame were each of them adjusted in gas-free air .
The faintly luminous oil-flame was adjusted in the air containing gas , the bright flame being gradually reduced until the cap was seen to be of the largest possible dimensions .
\#166 ; The following are the corrected cap-measurements expressed in millimetres , obtained with the flames of the specified heights ; the caps are graphically represented in millimetres and in inches in figs. 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 .
In these drawings the increase in dimensions of the testing flames , as the percentage of gas rises , is not shown .
All the flames , with the exception of the Pieler alcohol flame , were tested in the Ashworth lamp .
Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2 , Percentage of methane .
Hydrogen flame .
Pieler Ash- worth 's Colza-petroleum flat flame .
Standard 10 mm. 15 mm. in the gas .
5 mm. in the gas .
alcohol flame , 30 mm. benzoline flame , 3 mm. Small blue , 3 mm. Flame partly luminous , 6 mm. 0-25 17 37 30 ( ?
) 0'5 18 42 \#151 ; 55 7 ( ?
) \#151 ; 1*0 22 60 f enters 1 \#151 ; 90 r 140 , 10 1 \#151 ; \#151 ; 2*0 31 \#166 ; l top of l [ lamp J \#151 ; -\lt ; reaches L top \gt ; 14 7*5 7-5 3 -0 52 \#151 ; 14-5 \#151 ; 20 7-5 7-5 4-0 [ " enters 1 22 -2 \#151 ; 25 12 -0 24-0 5-0 \#166 ; \lt ; top of \gt ; [ lamp J 35 -0 \#151 ; 30 29-0 41 -0 6-0 1 60 -0 35 67-0 enters top In cases where caps of equal height are given for different percentages of gas , it must be understood that the higher percentage gives a more dense and sharply defined cap than the lower percentage does .
The general conclusions drawn from these measurements , and from experience derived from working with the different lamps , are the following:\#151 ; 1 .
The indications of the Pieler lamp begin at the lowest limit , of 025 per cent. , but quickly become too great to be utilised .
The thread-like tip extending above the flame for several inches in pure air must not be mistaken for a cap , but it is scarcely distinguishable from the cap given by 0'25 per cent , of gas .
This lamp suffers under the disadvantage that much of the feeble light of the caps is lost by the obstruction of the gauze : the gauze also frequently presents a bright reflecting surface behind the flame , and this renders the observation of the cap impossible .
All the other lamps in use are free from the interference due to the gauze , and if their glasses are blackened , as already described , they become well suited for the observation of caps .
2 .
The Ashworth benzoline lamp begins its indications doubtfully at 05 per cent. , the cap thus produced being more distinct , but not greater in height , than the mantle of the flame seen in gas-free air .
But starting with certainty with an indication of 1 per cent. , 1893 .
] A New Portable Miner 's Safety-lamp .
FiOr .
4.\#151 ; Size of Lamp-flames .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Heights of Methane Flame-caps .
0 == Colza-petroleum flat flame ( blue ) .
Oj = " " ( luminous tip ) .
B = Ashworth 's benzoline-flame ( blue ) .
H = Hydrogen flame , standard 10 mm. Hx = " 15 mm. in the gas .
Ho = \#187 ; 5 mm. in the gas .
Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2 , Fig. 6 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Actual Dimensions of Hydrogen Flames and Caps with Methane .
The shaded flames are of the standard 10 mm. size ; their caps are shown at ( H ) .
The dotted flames and caps ( Ht ) correspond to the flame 15 mm. high in the gas .
The three figures to the right ( H2 ) represent 5 mm. flames and their caps ; flames set in the gas .
it gives strikingly regular indications up to 6 per cent. , and even higher percentages may be read off in a lamp with a long glass .
3 .
The standard 10-mm .
hydrogen flame gives distinct indications from 025 to 3 per cent. ; the cap then becomes too high for measurement in the lamp ; but by reducing the flame to 5 mm. , cap-readings may be taken up to 6 per cent , of gas .
The lower indications may similarly be increased by raising the flame to 15 mm. 4 .
The oil flame , produced by unmixed colza oil , gives no indications with percentages below 2 .
With 1 per cent , of gas the flame from colza mixed with an equal volume of petroleum Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2 , ( water-white ) produces an apparent cap , which , though somewhat more intense than the natural mantle seen in gas-free air , is only equal to this mantle in dimensions , and might easily he mistaken for it .
The oil flame , when it is reduced until it just loses its luminous tip , however , gives distinct indications from 3 to 6 per cent. The largest indications are produced by drawing down the flame in the presence of the g , until a cap of maximum size is obtained .
A carefully regulated oil flame may , therefore , conveniently supplement the hydrogen flame for the indication of gas varying from 3 to 6 per cent. , and in the new hydrogen lamp this will be found to be a convenient method to adopt .
The use of colza alone in the oil-lamp is very inconvenient for gastesting : the wick quickly chars and hardens on the top , and the flame cannot then be reduced without danger of extinction ; the flame can never be obtained satisfactorily in a non-luminous condition .
The admixture with petroleum obviates these difficulties .
Results of Flame-cap Measurements in Air containing Coal-gas .
The miner 's safety-lamp is frequently employed for purposes of illumination in gas-works , and in other places in which the air may be contaminated with coal-gas .
It seems , therefore , only reasonable to make the lamp also serve the purpose of detecting the percentage of coal-gas present .
The amount of gas thus found indicates whether the air is in a dangerous condition .
Careful measurements were accordingly made of the flame-cap heights seen over the hydrogen and oil flames of the safety-lamp , when it was placed in the test-chamber with air containing a known admixture of Nottingham coal-gas .
The following measurements in millimetres were obtained .
They are represented graphically in millimetres and in inches in fig. 9 , but no attempt is made in these drawings to show the marked increase in dimensions which the test-flame undergoes in the presence of the higher percentages of gas :\#151 ; 1893 .
] A New Portable Min Safety-lamp .
Percentage of of coal-gas .
Cap-height in mm. over hydrogen !
flame .
Cap-height in mm. over oil flame , reduced until the cap is at maximum .
Standard 10 mm. flame .
15 mm. flame .
Flame reduced to 5 mm. in the gas .
0-25 15-7 27*6 _ 0-5 18*4- 37-0 \#151 ; \#151 ; 1 0 25 3 60 *4 \#151 ; \#151 ; 2-0 40-6 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 3 0 60-0 \#151 ; .
11-5 15'3 4-0 \#151 ; \#151 ; 30 0 20 0 5-0 \#151 ; \#151 ; 60*0 34-5 6*0 enters top 65 " 0 ( about ) Fig- .
9.\#151 ; Heights of Flame-caps in Coal-gas and in Water-gas .
Coal-gas in continuous lines , ivater-gas in dotted lines .
HH , cap heights oyer 10 mm. standard hydrogen flame .
HjH^ cap heights oyer hydrogen flame , reduced to 5 mm. in the presence of the gas .
H2H2 , cap heights oyer 15 mm. hydrogen-flame .
OO , cap heights over oil flame , adjusted until the maximum cap is seen .
VOL. Ln .
Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2 , On comparing these cap-heights with those for the corresponding percentages of methane , it will be seen that they somewhat exceed the latter when the hydrogen flame is used , and are somewhat less than the methane cap-heights when the oil flame is employed .
It is important to remember that this difference exists , if coal-gas is used to represent firedamp in the test-chamber .
Observation of Flame-caps in a Rapid Current of Air containing Coal-gas , and in the presence of Coal-dust .
The test-chamber was originally introduced as a convenient form of apparatus for testing the delicacy of lamps .
The chamber is far less costly , and less troublesome in use , and far more economical of the gases to be tested , than the forms of apparatus previously used for the same purpose .
But it has been frequently stated by practical mining men that the examination of the flame-caps in the still air of the test-chamber might lead to fallacious conclusions ; since the " gas , " when tested for in the mine , was contained in a rapidly moving air-current caused by the ventilating fan ; and this movement of the air around the safety-lamp might entirely alter the character of the flame-caps which were seen with the same percentage of gas in still air .
That any effect could be produced on the cap by the movement of air seemed extremely unlikely , since no lamp is now considered safe in the mine the flame of which is at all affected by the ordinary ventilation current .
But whilst working with air containing coal-gas , which was easily obtainable in large quantity , the question was put to the test of experiment in the apparatus represented in fig. 10 .
A square wooden tube , 12 feet in length and 14 inches square in section , had a fan , A , driven by a little electric motor , pushed into one end of it .
This fan , when in rotation , drove an air-current at the rate of 300 feet per minute through the tube ; a pipe , B , supplying coal-gas from the mains , fed the gas into the air current drawn by the fan .
1893 .
] A New Portable Miner s Safety-lamp .
The gas was thoroughly mixed with the air , partly by the action of the fan , and partly by the passage of the air current through coarse wire-gauze baffles , C. The lamp was introduced through a hinged window , D. The hydrogen flame in the Ashworth 's lamp was not affected in the least by this air-current .
The cap shown over the flame indicated the presence of 0'5 per cent , of gas .
At a given signal the hinged door E was dropped into position Else and closed the tube , and the fan was simultaneously stopped .
The lamp was thus exposed to still air of the same composition as that which was previously in motion .
Not the slightest effect upon the flame or cap was perceptible .
A similar experiment made with the reduced oil flame of the lamp , and with air containing a larger percentage of gas , showed that the air-current in motion produced no effect on the oil flame and its cap other than the quiescent air of the same composition did .
It may be concluded , therefore , that with a good safety-lamp the test-chamber indications are applicable to the conditions ordinarily found in the mine .
[ .
February7.\#151 ; It was found , however , that the presence of fine .coal-dust in very large proportion in the air rendered the test-flame so luminous that no cap could be seen even when gas was present .
A very dusty atmosphere will render gas-tests impossible by all the forms of testing apparatus at present known .
No interference arose from the dust ordinarily met with in the mine .
] Results of Flame-cap Measurements in Air containing Water-gas .
The poisonous nature of " water-gas , " which is produced bypassing steam over red-hot coke or charcoal , is well known .
It is due to the large proportion of carbon monoxide present in the gas .
Since water-gas is free from odour , it is very necessary to find , if possible , some delicate method of detecting it and of measuring its amount in nir .
Accordingly the heights of the flame-caps yielded by the hydrogen flame and by the oil flame of the safety-lamp , when the lamp was introduced into air containing known percentages of water-gas in the test-chamber , were measured .
It was hoped that the flame-cap test might prove available for water-gas , as it is for firedamp and for ooal-gas .
The samples of water-gas were prepared in the laboratory by passing steam over red-hot wood charcoal contained in a porcelain tube .
The flame-indications proved that portions of the gas collected at different periods of the preparation were very different in composition ; and a chemical analysis of the gas showed an uudne proportion of carbon dioxide and a deficiency of carbon monoxide .
The percent- Prof. F. Clowes .
[ Feb. 2y ages found were : carbon dioxide 18-5 , carbon monoxide 5'4 , hydrogen 761 .
In this gas the oil flame showed no trustworthy indication until 4 per cent , of water-gas was present , when the height of the cap was 10-9 mm. ; the cap rose to 15*3 mm. with 5 per cent , of water-gas .
The cap over the standard hydrogen flame was 15 3 mm. when 025 per cent , of the gas was present , and rose gradually to 32 mm. when 5 per cent , was present .
These results would indicate the flame-test to be of inferior delicacy for water-gas , but they require to be repeated with water-gas of better quality before final conclusions are drawn .
[ \#166 ; January27.\#151 ; The flame-test , as applied to water-gas , was further investigated in the test-chamber , by employing an artificially prepared mixture of the separate gases .
This mixture approximately corresponded to the average composition of water-gas .
The percentages found on analysis were as follows:\#151 ; Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
496 Carbon monoxide ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 408 Carbon dioxide ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2'6 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7 The complete series of flame-cap measurements are tabulated below and are graphically represented in fig. 9:\#151 ; Percentage of water-gas .
Hydrogen flame .
Colza-petroleum flame , maximum size .
10 mm. 15 mm. 5 mm. 0-25 10 25-3 Nil Nil 0*5 14-5 33 ) ) } ) 10 17 2 yy yy 2-0 28-7 yy 8 3 0 31 4 yy 8 40 *36 yy 9 5'0 *40 11 14-5 6-0 *50-6 26 20 Percentages of carbon monoxide in the air less than 02 to 04 , which is stated by the Prussian Firedamp Commission to be a poisonous proportion , are thus easily detectible by the hydrogen flame test in the safety-lamp .
] * In these measurements a delicate thread of flame , surmounting the conical cap , was not included .
1893 .
] A New Portable Miner s Safety-lamp .
503 The Measurement of the Percentage of Gas in Air by the Spiring of the full Luminous Flame .
It has recently been stated that the " spiring " of the fall bright flame of the lamp is a very delicate and trustworthy test for gas .
This effect occurs when the flame , which has been raised to the verge of smoking in air free from gas , is brought into air containing gas .
The flame then stretches upwards a thin tongue , assumes a redder tinge , loses in brightness , and begins to smoke .
It is stated that 05 per cent , of gas may thus be detected with ease and certainty .
Experiments in the test-chamber failed to detect 0*5 per cent , of gas with an ordinary colza-petroleum flame .
With a benzoline flame , however , 0*25 per cent , was detectible ; and the spiring of the flame with 05 per cent , was most pronounced ; while with 1 per cent , of gas a very distinct red spiring flame was produced which smoked freely .
But it was at once evident that any safety-lamp flame when delicately adjusted for this test was very easily made to " spire " by causes other than the presence of firedamp ; this was especially the case with the benzoline flame , which seemed to spire spontaneously at any moment .
When it is remembered that the " spiring " may be caused by any slight increase in the oil supply to the wick , or by the reduction of the supply of air or oxygen to the flame , arising from any cause other than the presence of " gas , " it will be seen that the indications cannot be very trustworthy .
The method is further impossible of application in many situations , since the flame must be adjusted for the test immediately before it is applied , and this must be done in air free from gas .
Air known for a certainty to be free from " gas " is not obtainable in many situations where the test would have to be carried out .
This test further clogs the meshes of the gauze with soot , and this impedes the proper action of the lamp .
The conclusion , drawn from a series of comparative experiments made in the test-chamber , was that the flame-cap test when carried out in the way already described , and with the apparatus mentioned above , exceeded both in delicacy and in trustworthiness the test depending upon the " spiring " of the full bright flame of the safety-lamp .
I have much pleasure in acknowledging the valuable and intelligent assistance rendered by W. T. Rigby in the above investigations .

