]\gt ; [ 375 ] VI .
On the Forty-eight Coordinates of a Cubic Curve in WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , P.R. Received December 29 , 1880\mdash ; Read January 1.3 , 1881 .
IN a note published in the Report of the British Association for 1878 ( Dublin ) , and in a fuller paper in the Transactions of the London Mathematical Society , 1879 , I have given the forms of the eighteen , or the twenty-one ( as there explained ) , coordinates of a conic in space , corresponding , so far as corres- pondence subsists , with the six coordinates of a straight line in space ; and in the same papers I have established the identical relations between these coordinates , whereby the number of independent quantities is reduced to eight , as it should be .
In both cases , viz. : the straight line and the conic , the coordinates are to be obtained by eliminating the variables in turn from the two equations representing the line or the conic , and are in fact the coefficients of the equations resulting from the eliminations .
In the present paper I have followed the same procedure for the case of a cubic curve in space .
Such a curve may , as is well known , be regarded as the intersection of two quadric surfaces having a generating line in common ; and the result of the ehmination of any one of the variables from two quadric equations satisfying this condition is of the third degree .
The number of coefficients so arising is ; but I have found that these forty quantities may very conveniently be replaced by forty-eight others , which are henceforward considered as the coordinates of the cubic curve in space .
The relation between the forty and the forty-eight coordinates is as follows : on examining the equations resulting from the eliminations of the variables , it turns out that they can be rationally transformed into expressions such as UP ' , where and are quadrics , and and linear functions of the variables remaining after the eliminations .
The forty-eight coordinates then consist of the twenty-four coefficients of the four functions of the form ( say the coordinates ) together with the twenty-four coefficients of the functions of form ( say the coordinates ) , arising from the four eliminations respectively ; viz. : .
And it will be found that the coefficients of the forms , are already comprised among those of ; so that they do not add to the previous total of forty-eight .
The number of identical relations established in the present paper is 34 .
But it will be observed that the equations , , are lineo-linear in the coordinates and in the coordinates ; and as we are concerned with the ratios only of the coefficients and not with their absolute values , we are in fact concerned only with the ratios of the coordinates inter se , and of the coordinates inter se , and not with their absolute values .
Hence the number of independent coordinates will be reduced to , as it should be .
S 1 .
of equations .
With a view to the problem in question , it is first required to form the equations of two quadrics having a generating lin in commorL For the present purpose the following appears the simplest way of effecting this ; let , . . . . .
( 1 ) From these we may form the three equations , . . . . .
( 2 ) of which two only , of course , are independent .
Any two of them may be taken as representing the two quadrics in question .
Thus , if we take the last two , the equations of the common generating line will be The next step is to eliminate the four variables in turn from the two quadrics ; for which purpose it will be convenient to express the system ( 2 ) in the following form : : : : ; . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) or , introducing an indeterminate quantity , we may use , instead of equations ( 3 ) , the following , .
: . . . .
( 4 ) In order to eliminate one of the variables , say , let us write , , . . .
, .
( 5 ) COORDINATES OF A CUBIC CURVE IN SPACE .
The system ( 4 ) will then take the form or , as it may be written , suffix suffix ( 6 ) , , , , @ , , , 2 ) , and if we multiply these equations throughout by , we may write the two systems ( 6 ) , and thus : ' suffix suffix ( 7 ) . . . . .
whence we may once eliminate 1 , , and obtain the following result : , 8 , S ' , suffix suffix . . . .
( 8 ) , S , S ' , @ , , S , S ' , S , S ' , @ , ' The corresponding results , when are respectively eliminated , are obvious ; .
: writing down the upper lines only , they may be represented thus : suffix . . . . .
( 8 ) , From these equations it is not difficult to write down the coefficients of the powers products of the variables in each case .
Thus in the case of ( 8 ) , or eliminated , we shall have , for , . .
, .
, i.e. , the coefficients of , . .
, .
respectively , , S , , ( suffix ) . . . . . . . .
( 9 ) @ , @ , , @ , @ , @ , But there is another and very useful form which may be given to the equations ( 8 ) and ( 8 ) .
In fact , writing down only the first lines of the determinants , and putting suffix . . .
( 10 ) , S , S ' , S , S ' , S , S ' We may write the results of eliminating respectively in the following forms : UP ' . . . .
( 11 ) ; and these may be regarded either as the equations of the projections of the curve on the four coordinate planes respectively , or as equations of conical surfaces passing through the curve , nnd having their axes parallel to the coordinate axes respectively .
COORDINA TES OF A CUBIC CURVE IN SPACE .
It might at first sight appear that , in each of the curves ( 11 ) , we should in general have nine points determined as follows : .
( taking the last equation ) by the intersection of and , one point , , , , two points , , , , , two points , , , , four points .
, , nine in all .
This however is not strictly the case , for , S , suffix suffix . . .
( 12 ) , S , , @ , and since the four determinants which can be formed from the above matrix are equivalent to only two independent determinants , it follows that if any two of the equations , are satisfied , all wil ] be satisfied .
In other words , the four curves , have a common point of intersection .
Instead , however , of taking the coefficients of the equations ( 8 ) and ( 8 ) , i.e. , the quantities of which ( 9 ) are specimens , as the forty coordinates of the curve , it will be convenient to take the coefficients of the functions ( 10 ) as the coordinates .
These will be found to be forty-eight in number , and to be comprised in the following table , as stated in the introductory remarks .
For the sake of brevity , only the upper lines of the determinants are written down : , ( suffix ) , , S ' , S , ( suffix ) , ( 13 ) , @ , , , , , @ , , , , , , @ , , @ , , , , @A , , , @ @2F ( t ) , @B , , , @ @2G , , @ , , , @ , @2H , with a similar set of expressions of which the following are specimens : @ , ( 14 ) Substituting these values in ( 10 ) , we shall find the following to be the forms of the functions therein contained , viz. : suffix , V ' And finally we may , by means of the equations ( 11 ) , replace forms having the coefficients ( 9 ) , by forms having coefficients into which the quantities .
enter .
Thus , writing .
The forms in question are , . . . . .
, , , , , , , , COORDINATES OF A CUBIC CURVE SPACE .
, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , S2 .
The identical relations between the forty-eight coordinates .
On inspectin the expressions ( 13 ) and ( 14 ) it will be seen at once that the fotlowing relations subsist , viz. : , ( 16 ) ; This is a set of identical relations between the forty-eight coordinates .
Added February 19 , 1880 .
The next set of identical relations is to be sought among the first minors of the discriminants of , . .
, bordered respectively with the coefficients of , .
Thus , selecting , we have to examine the coefficients of , . .
( say the quantities % , , . .
in the development of suffix .
We have , changing the sign , , @ @ , @ , @ , @ , @ , @ , @ , @ , @ , , @ , , @ COORDINATES OF A CUBIC CURVE IN SPACE .
and if in these last determinants we subtract rows 4 , 5 , 6 from rows 1 , 2 , 3 respectively ; and then subtract column 3 from column 4 , we shall find that the whole expression , @ , @ , or more simply , @ .
From this result we may at once conclude the following group : % , @ . . . . .
( 17 ) , @ , , @ .
Again , proceeding as before we should find , @ , @ , @ , @ , , @ , , @ , @ , , @ , , @ , @ , 8 , , @ From this we may conclude the group , , @ , @ ( 18 ) , @ , @ , , @ , @ .
From ( 17 ) and ( 18 ) we can now eliminate the three quantities , S , , S , and obtain the following identical relations , ( 19 ) to these may be added ( 20 ) But , as the six equations ( 19 ) and ( 20 ) are in any case equivalent to only three independent conditions , it is not necessary to go beyond the equations ( 19 ) .
[ POSTSCRIPT .
Added Apri123 , 1881 .
In the present case however the equations ( 19 ) are themselves not independent , as may be shown in the following way .
Write for the moment ; then Inserting these values in the first equations of ( 19 ) we obtain X. X. Bu COORDINATES OF CUBIC CURVE IN SPACE .
38.5 also and Hence the whole expression or The equations ( 19 ) , and consequently also the equations ( 19 ) and ( 20 ) , are therefore together equivalent only to the single condition ( 21 ) .
Now the relation ( 21 ) has been derived from the form ; if to this we add the relations delived from the forms , we shall have four relations .
Others are readily obtained as follows .
If we form the four systems of which ( 17 ) is one , we may write them down thus : , , , ( suffix x ) , , , , , , ( , , z ) , , , ( , t ) Whence , ( 22 ) , , ( suffix x ) ( suffix y ) ( suffix z ) ( suffix t ) We thus have eight more relations .
And if to these we add the corresponding ations derived from the forms , we shall have 2 relations addition to ( 16 ) , in all .
] To obtain two more , write for the moment , @ , @ , @ ( 23 ) and then multiply ( 17 ) by respectively and add them together .
This will give And if we proceed in a similar way with the corresponding systems derived from respectively , we may form the following system , % , , . .
suffix . . .
( 24 ) , : , , , , whence eliminating , we finally obtain the following relation , , . .
suffix . . . . .
( 25 ) , , To this may be added the corresponding relation obtained from the forms .
These added to the former conditions give us It was however remarked at the outset that the equations UP ' , \amp ; c. , are lineo-linear in the coordinates , and also in the ates ; and as we are ) cerned with the ratios only of the coefficients , and not with their absolute values , we are in fact concerned only with the ratios of the coordinates inter se , and with those of the 'coordinates inter se , and not with their absolute values .
Hence the number of independent coordinates will finally be reduced to as it should be .

