]\gt ; [ 319 ] XTII .
On the Osmotic Pressures of Calcium Ferrocyanide Solutions .
Part II.\mdash ; Weak Solutions .
By the EARL 0F BERKELEY , F.R.S. , E. G. J. HARTLEY , B.A. ( Oxon .
) , J. STEPHENSON , B. Sc. ( Lond. ) .
Received January 16 , \mdash ; Read February 18 , 1909 .
IN the following communication the experiments on the direct measurements of the osmotic pressure and the densities have been carried out in conjunction with Mr. HARTLEY , while those on the electric conductivities were with Mr. STEPHENSON .
The reason for choosing calcium ferrocyanide as solute were given in Part I. , but it may be added that weak solutions of this salt showed certain interesting anomalies , to be described later , which made it desirable to measure their electric conductivities with a view to throwin some light on the connection between osmotic pressure and iomsation .
The followed in purifyin the salt has already been given in Part I. , and so has that used in obtaining the densities .
The ements of Osmotic Equilibrium Pressures .
These measurements are to solutions whose equilibrium pressures are under 25 atmospheres .
The apparatus was the same as that previously described in the account of our experiments on sugar solutions Phil. Trans Series , except that the large dead-weight pressure-gauge was replaced by a smaller one specially made by Messrs. Schaffer and Budenberg , which seemingly allowed accurate measurements to be obtained down to atmospheres pressure , and at the same time the increment of pressure ( loc. cit. , p. 498 ) was atmosphere .
It had been thought that by increasing the area of the membrane ( but keeping the general construction of the apparatus the same ) these lower pressures would be easurable to a greater degree of accuracy\mdash ; that is to say , that for a small change in pressure a larger quantity of water would pass through the membrane and consequently give a bigger effect on the reading of the water-gauge .
Some 50 porcelain tubes , supposed to be similar to those used previously in paste porosity and diameter ( but 20 cm .
in length ) , were therefore obtained from the makers .
Unfortunately all efforts to obtain even one membrane good enough for accurate work failed , and the attempt has had to be abandoned for the time being ; consequently the experiments were done with the short tubes .
'Phil .
Trans Series , vol. 209 , p. 179 .
This apparatus was compared with the mercury column at the National Physical boratory nnd found correct .
( 453 .
) 26.5.09 320 { EARL OF BERKELEy , MESSRS .
G. J. HARTLLY AND J. NSON .
ON THE OSMOTIC PRESSURES .
OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE SOLUTIONS .
32 ] .
Results of Density Equilibrium Pressure surements .
The foregoing table gives the results obtained :Column ( ives the date ; ( 2 ) the weight concentration , i.e. the number of grammes of anhydrous salt to .
of water ; ( 3 ) the density of the solution at C. ; ( 4 ) the percentage content of water in the hydrated salt ; ( 5 ) the tube employed ; ( 6 ) the apparent turning-point , that is , the poin at which there was no observable movement of the water-level in the gauge ; ( 7 ) the guard-ring leak ( see Part I. ) ; ( 8 ) the time the pressure was on the solution ; ( 9 ) the quantity of anhydrous salt passed through the membrane ; ( 10 ) the change in the water-level caused by the increment of pressure ; ( 11 ) the apparent turningpoint corrected for guard-ring leak ; in this case it is the equilibrium pressure .
The following table gives the mean values derived from Table I. , together with the theoretical osmotic pressures calculated on the assumption that BOYLE'S law holds for these solutions .
Column ( 1 ) gives the weight concentration , i.e. the number of grammes of solute to 100 .
of solvent ; ( 2 ) gives the corresponding densities ; ( 3 ) the number of grammolecules of anhydrous salt in the litre of solution ; ( 4 ) the corresponding equilibrium pressures ; ( 5 ) the osmotic pressure calculated from BOYLE'S law , assuming RT All molecular weights have been calculated with TABLE II .
The agreement at the two lower concentrations between the BOYLE'S law osmotic pressures and those directly observed is remarkable .
But as calcium ferrocyanide solutions are conductors of electricity , and therefore presumably ionised to a considerable extent , we should expect the observed osmotic equilibrium pressures to be higher than the calculated .
This discrepancy led to similar work being done on solutions of strontium and potassium ferrocyanides , and the following tables give the results .
VOL. CCIX . .
2 OF oSRS .
E. G. J. HARTLEY AND J. STEPHENSON . .
rff ON THE OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF CALCIUM UTIONS .
The meaning and numbering of the columns are the same as in Table I. , with the exception that for the potassium salt column ( 4 ) is omitted because the salt , which was purchased as Messrs. Kahlbaum 's purest , was not systematically analysed* for its water content .
In the following the mean values are given , and the columns are numbered and have the same significance as in Table II .
TABLE IV .
It will be noticed that these results are such as would be expected on the dissociation hypothesis ; the greater the dilution the greater the ionisation , until at the greatest dilution there is apparently dissociation into about three ions or molecules .
A few experiments were made with strontium ferrocyanide to see whether the same anomalies ( see p. 321 ) obtained as those shown by the calcium salt .
The salt was purchased from Messrs. Kahlbaum and purified by recl.ystallisation as in the case of the calcium salt .
Analyses gave the followin results:\mdash ; An analysis of the salt gave 12 81 per cent. l278 per cent. The sample was taken from a lot which was to have } overdried .
It will be apparent that the salt when dried in an air current , at about C. , contains 14 of water , and not 15 as stated by ROSCOE and SCHOBLEXMER .
* The following table gives the results of the osmotic-pressure determinations , and the figures in the columns have the same meaning as in the case of Table I. TABLE V.\mdash ; Strontium Ferrocyanide .
JDNNov 1 Tabulating these results in the form given for the calcium and potassium salts , we TABLE VI.\mdash ; Strontium Ferrocyanide .
In the case of this salt the observed osmotic equilibrium pressures are less than those calculated from BoYLE'S law ; thus the peculiarity noticed in the case of the calcium salt is emphasised in the strontium solutions .
A search for a similar anomaly was made among such other salts of complex acids Treatise on Chemistry , ' vol. , p. 1025 ( 1897 edition ) .
ON THE OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE SOLUTIONS .
325 as would be likely to give satisfactory osmotic pressures , but without results , as will be seen by the following list : Sodium\ldquo ; napht enzoateLead benzene sulphonatePotassium benzene sonateCalcium naphthionateLuteo , cobalt , chlorideCalcium aSpre .
Osmot.smotic pressure.isedA tsmotic pressure oised ssmotic pressure oised sPrelimPre nsmotic pressure oised ssmotic pressure oised sosmotic pressu.rePreliminary einary , ccurate , osmotic pressure oised steri , tRemarks.\ldquo ; This experiment was done with an 1mperfect membrane .
The Electric Conductivities of the Solutions .
The cell used for the stronger solutions is shown in fig. 1 ; it was originally designed for another research ( the conductivities of saturated solutions ) , but was found quite satisfactory for the present purpose .
A is the cell proper , and and its electrodes ; these are covered with platinum black in the usual manner .
The solution , which is contained in the beaker ( capacity about 250 ) , is sucked up into the ] by means of the tap , and the resistance is determined by the Fitzpatrick and Whetham commutating method .
As the osmotic pressures were determined at C. , it was imperative , for the purpose of comparison , to obtain the conductivities at the same temperature .
This was secured in the following whole apparatus was plunged into ice and the stirrer started ; when the temperature was constant at or near C. , the solution was sucked up into the cell and its resistance determined ; the cell was then emptied ; after an interval of three or four minutes it was refilled and the resistance re-determined .
These operations were repeated until a constant resistance was obtained .
The temperature was always noted before and after every operation , and obseryations in which there had been a change of more than C. were rejected ; We are now experimenting with the ferricyanides for the same purpose .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 194 , p. 330 .
326 { EARL OF BERKELEy , SSRS .
E. G. J. HARTLEY AND J. STEPHENSON such a ) ange ve ry seldom happened when the proper level of the liquid in the beaker been found .
The first observation , however , of any series was nearly always somewhat different from the subsequent ones ; this was thought to be caused by a ence of concentration on the electrode surfaces when first wetted by the solution , and the obseryation was therefore rejected .
Fig. 1 .
Temperature Coefficient .
As the temperature of the solution was always some seven or eight hundredths of a degree above C. , a correction was obtained by allowing the temperature to rise slightly and then re-determining the resistance ; by assuming that the change of resistance was proportional to the change of temperature the observed resistance be extrapolated to C. It may be mentioned here that the level of the solution in the cell not be seen on account of the mercury jacket ( see fig. 1 ) , yet by means of an oil gau ge attached to it was ensured that on filling the cell the level always reached the same height .
ON OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF CALCIUM FLRROCYANIDE SOLUTIONS .
Resistance Box .
The coils of the box of manganin , and were tested by means of a calibrated platinum bridge wire having a standard-ohm coil joined to each end .
Coils of the same nominal value were thus compared and the results calculated in terms of the coil of highest resistance ( 5000 ohms ) , thus giving the value of a box ohm .
In case was the deviation greater than of the nominal value .
of the The cell was standardised by means of an approximately normal solution of potassium chloride .
The specific conductivity of this solution is given by Kohlrausch ( see LANDOLT and BoRNSTEIN'S tables ) for temperatures from C. upwards .
The salt used was Merck 's purest , and care was taken that it was thoroughly dry before weighing out the necessary quantity .
Three separate sets of observations were made and the results are tabulated below : ohms Specific.utions a Resistance cohmb.pacity A normal solution of potassium chloride contains .
of salt in 100 .
of solution and has a specific conductivity of at C. ; the specific conductivities given in the table are calculated from this by assuming that the conductivity is proportional to the concentration .
It is worth noting that on increasing the speed of revolution of the commutator so that the alternations of current were changed from 36 to 72 per second no } ) reciable change in the resistance of the solution was ) gendered .
Resistance of the Solutions .
As there was but little salt at our disposal the solutions were made ) in the following way : The salt .
the strongest solution required was weighed out suitable portion from the same bottle being set aside for the analysis of its water content ) and the weight of water added determined on the balance .
A part of this solution was used for the resistance experiments , and the other part : after weighing , was diluted and again weighed , and so on ; thus the weight concentration of ach solution used for the conductivity work.was known , and the density corresponding to the concentration could be obtained from the graph of these two quantities which had already been termined in the osmotic-pressure experiments .
The water used for the dilution was distilled , in a Jena glass still , from a dilute solution of potassium di-chromate , and its resistance determined in another cell to be described later .
The table on p. 329 is a copy of the record of a typical experiment with calcium ferrocyanide .
The columns 1 , 2 , and 3 , under the heading temperature , require a word of explanation .
The temperature under 1 is that of the solution just before the cell was filled , 2 gives it just after the measurement of the resistance , and 3 just after emptying .
The solution contained .
of anhydrous calcium ferrocyanide in 100 .
of solution .
The ratio arms were 10 : 100 and the battery gave 2 yolts .
Resistance of the Solutions Infimte Dilution .
Although , as is well known , the relation between the conductivity at infinite dilution and that at finite concentrations is not well established for salts of the molecular complexity of the ferrocyanides , yet it was thought that this relation might throw some light on the discrepancy indicated on p. 321 .
Experiments on very dilute solutions were therefore undertaken .
Low-resistance Cell .
A cell for this purpose was kindly lent by Mr. WHETHAM ; it was made of Jena glass and is shown in fig. 2 .
The electrodes and are coated with platinum " " grey\ldquo ; to prevent the absorption of salt , which , as pointed out by WHETHAM , * generally takes place when platinum black is used .
The cell was suspended in a beaker of ice and water , and this in its turn was placed in ice .
Make up of the The water used was twice distilled in the ordinary way and then redistilled from potassium di-chromate , the middle third only being used .
All glass vessels and pipettes were of Jena glass and the water and solutions were stored in stoppered Jena glass flasks .
Resistance of the Cell .
The cell was standardised by means of a solution of potassium chloride containing .
of salt in 100 .
solution .
This solution was obtain as follows : .
cit. ON THE OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF CIUM FERROCYANIDE SOLUTIONS .
The cmergent column correction was thermometer zsro , , , , .l75 Total For the 1st set of observations the true mean temperature was C. ; mean resistance , 33330 hms .
2nd , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 33298 , , For a change of temperature of C. the change of resistance was 32 ohms .
Therefore taking the mean of all the observations , and correcting for temperature , the resistance of the solution at C. lvas 33393 ohms .
solution of was first made up accurately by weight ; 10 .
of this was added to 400 .
of conductivity water in flask A. At the same time as the water was added to flask , a similar quantity of the same water was poured into flask B. Both flasks were kept stoppered , and whenever one flask was opened for any purpose the other was opened for the same length of time and in the same place .
In this way it was VOL. CCIX.\mdash ; A. 2 330 THE OF BERKELEy , MESSRS .
E. G. J. HARTLEY AND J. STEPHENSON hoped that any contamination from the atmosphere would affect both equally , and by deterlnining the resistances of the water and solution in the following order\mdash ; water , solution , water , solution , water\mdash ; and taking the mean values , we should thus get a close approximation to the conductivity of the salt in the cell .
Fig. 2 .
Using Kohlrausch's* yalue for the conductivity of potassium chloride ( reduced to C. by means of DEGUISNE'S temperature coefficient ) and correcting it for the slight difference in concentration between and our solution , we get the resistance capacity of the cell ohms .
the very Dilute Solutions .
A stock solution of each salt was made up and this was used as in the case of the standard potassium solution ; it was found , however , that all of the very dilute *LANDOLT and BoRNSTEIN'S tables , 1905 , p. 756 .
LANDOLT and BoRNSTEIN'S tables , 1905 , p. 755 .
ON THE OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE SOLUTIONS .
331 solutions decreased slightly in resistance with lapse of time , except the most dilute of all , which increased with the time .
* In each case a time coefficient was determined by experiment , and the resistances given in the tables are the resistances the solutions would have had immediately after bein made up .
It was also noticed that , with the low-resistance cell , the rate of alternation of current had a perceptible effect on the resistance ; a great number of experiments were made to determine the cause of this , but without result .
It was , therefore , decided to make all measurements at a speed which , on the whole , gave the most consistent results .
Results for Ferrocyanide .
The results for the calcium ferrocyan are collected in the following table .
The first seven lines refer to solutions whose constants were determined in the high-resistance cell and the remainder refer to the low-resistance cell .
TABLE VII .
The equivalent conductivities of the stronger solutions are plotted against the concentrations in diagram 1 , and those of the very dilute solutions are plotted against the cube root of the concentrations in diagram 2 ; the latter curve when extrapolated , as shown by the dotted lines , to infinite dilution gives the probable limits between * The greatest decrease observed was per cent. per hour , while the increase in most dilute solution of the calcium salt was per cent. per hour , and for the strontium salt per cent. 332 THE EARL OF BERKELEY , MESSRS .
E. G. J. HARTLEy AND J. STEPHENSON which the value of the equivalent conductivity at that dilution lies ; that is , between and Results for Strontium Ferrocyanide .
These results are given in Table VIII. .
The first five lines refer to the stronger solutions ; they practically cover the range over which the osmotic pressures were measured , and thus , in conjunction with the equivalent conductivity at infinite dilution , afford an insight into the relative dissociation of the salt .
The last six lines refer to the very dilute solutions .
TABLE VIII .
Specific conductivity of the solution at C. c 003487 002316 001847 001356 0 .
0 .
0 .
Weight oents imber ogramme .
The numbers are plotted in diagrams 1 and 2 in the same way as in the case of the calcium salt .
From the curve of the very dilute solutions the value at infinite dilution will be seen to lie between and Theoretical Considerations .
From the foregoing conductivity results it will be seen that both the calcium and the strontium solutions are fair conductors of electricity , yet if we judge from the osmoticpressure experiments alone , the calcium salt should show no appreciable dissociation , while the strontium salt shows that there must even be some association .
A tentative explanation of these facts may be based on either of two hypotheses : ON THE OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE SOLUTIONS .
333 that the salts in solution are associated* into double molecules , and these are ionised , or ( 2 ) that the salts are ionised single molecules , and the ions are themselves aggregated into larger complexes .
Diagram 1 .
The first hypothesis is the more simple ( it admits of a suitable chemical formula being postulated ) , and if by its aid we can explain the facts , it will not be necessary to consider the second .
Assuming , then , that the molecules are double , we shall get the following tables , in .
RAOULT Tonometrie 'Scientia Series , ' No. 8 , p. 90 ) on the association of the sulphates of divalent metals as evidenced by the lowering of the vapour pressures of the solutions .
which column ( 1 ) gives the weight concentration ; ( 2 ) the number of double grammolecules in the litre of solution ; ( 8 ) the equivalent conductivity of the solution ; ( 4 ) the ratio , where is the equivalent conductivity at infinite Diagram 2 .
dilution , and is assumed to be the mean of the limits given by the curves on diagram ( 2 ) ; ( 5 ) gives the osmotic pressure calculated from the well-known equation ON THE OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE SOLUTIONS .
where is the number of ions into which the molecule is split up ; column ( 6 ) gives the obseryed osmotic equilibrium pressure .
TABLE IX .
concentration .
Calcium Ferrocyanide .
0.2055 Strontium Ferrocyanide .
If we take into consideration the yarious assumptions involved in calculating the numbers in column ( 5 ) , the agreement between these and the observed osmotic pressures is as good as could be expected , but it should be mentioned that as good an agreement can be obtained if the double molecule be assumed to be split up into 5 ions .
A simple chemical formula which will express these results is where the ions are the four Ca and two , while a sponding formula applies to the strontium salt .
This formula was originally proposed by for the ferrocyanides , and it is of interest to whether , in the case of the potassium salt , a similar molecule , ionised into the corresponding number of ions , namely 10 , will bring the calculated and observed osmotic pressures into agreement .
Using ] and WEST'S measurements of the conductivities of potassium *In this case the constitutional formula gives Ca ions and one 'Lehrbuch Org .
Chem 1867 , p. 148 .
'Amer .
Chem. Jour 34 , 1809 , p. 392 .
ferrocyanide solutions at C. and treating the results in the same way as that adopted for the other salts , but keeping to their own units , we get for the double molecule and 10 ions the following table , where TABLE X.\mdash ; Potassium Ferrocyanide .
oratmospherespres.ions ospheresObservedpressureosm .
The agreement between the numbers in columns ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) seems good enough to warrant the conclusion that the assumption of double*molecules ionised into 10 ions is not incompatible with the facts .
On the other hand , it may be pointed out that the deviation from the theoretical BOYLE'S law osmotic pressure may be considerable , for it is apparent in cane-sugar solutions even down to some 7 atmospheres pressure ; in view of the uncertainty of the value of the conductivities at infinite dilution , together with the weakness of the theory which connects them with the conducvities of the solutions themselves , it was considered useless to attempt to correct for these deviations .
Reviewing the evidence recorded in this communication , it may be concluded that the calcium and strontium salts are proved to be associated when in solution , and it is possible that they exist as the double molecules of the formula given on p. 335 . .
BUCHBoCK'S work on aqueous solutions of tetraethyl ferrocyanide ( ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 23 , 1897 , p. 157 ) , shows the molecule to be .
In view of the known tendency for organic isocyanides to be formed from certain metallic cyanides , it may be that this substance is constituted dffierently to the metallic ferrocyanides .

