[ 433 ] XIII .
On Acquired Radio-Activity .
By Sir William Crookes , O , Pres. R.S. [ Plates 9-10 .
] Received October 26 , 1914 .
Experiments with Cathode Rays .
1 .
About forty years ago I sealed in a vacuum tube a yellow diamond cut as a brilliant .
Ibis diamond was chosen because it phosphoresced in the dark after exposure to bright sunshine , \#151 ; it also phosphoresced slightly under the influence of ultra-violet light .
In the vacuum tube , as the anti-cathode , it emitted a brilliant yellowish white light giving almost as much light as a candle .
It was often exhibited to .
illustrate the glow of a diamond under the influence of cathode rays in vacuo ; scarcely a week passed without the vacuum tube containing the diamond being exhibited to friends .
It was by far the most attractive tube in my collection .
After forty years of hard work the diamond has become much discoloured .
It was of interest to see if the repeated bombardment , as the anti-cathode , in the vacuum tube had conferred radio-activity on the diamond .
Accordingly I opened the tube , quickly removed the diamond , and in the dark put it on a sensitive film , a thin sheet of black paper intervening .
Over the diamond was placed a pad of cotton-wool and a weight , to prevent the stone from shifting its position .
After nine days ' contact the film was developed .
An exceedingly slight action could , with difficulty , be detected , showing that the off and on action for forty years had conferred practically no radio-activity on the diamond .
2 .
A sensitive electroscope was now made , with sulphur insulation .
The fall of the leaf was observed with a small telescope having a photographed scale .
The normal fall due to natural leakage was 5 ' in 165 seconds .
A piece of a thoria gas mantle caused a fall of 5 ' in two seconds , and radio-active diamonds caused a fall in from two or three seconds to a fraction of a second .
Tested in this instrument I found this special diamond to be entirely devoid of action .
Action of Cathode Rays on Diamond .
3 .
On one occasion when M. Moissan was in my laboratory I darkened some diamonds by means of cathode rays .
One of these he took away , and subsequently reported the result of his experiments to the French Academy.* He heated * 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. cxxiv .
, No. 13 , p. 653 , March , 1897 .
VOL. CCXIV.---A .
521 .
3 K Published separately , December 16 , 1914 .
the diamond to 60 ' C. in an oxidising mixture of potassium chlorate and fuming nitric acid , prepared from monohydrated sulphuric acid and potassium chlorate fused and free from moisture ( 9 , 12 , 32 ) .
The action on the dark layer is very slow , requiring at least eight or ten days for its complete removal .
There is at first produced graphitic oxide which at an increased temperature yields pyrographitic acid easily destroyed by nitric acid .
Hence the variety of carbon which coated the diamond is graphite The transformation of diamond into graphite requires the temperature of the electric arc , and the higher the temperature at which it is formed the greater is its resistance to oxidation .
M. Moissan came to the conclusion that the temperature reached by the surface of the diamond blackened in my radiant matter tube was probably about 3600 ' C. 4 .
Six diamonds\#151 ; having different degrees of phosphorescence under cathode rays\#151 ; were tested in a Becquerel phosphoroscope to see if the order of intensity of the residual phosphorescence due to illumination with an arc light was the same as the order under cathode rays .
All had a slight residual phosphorescence , but the order of intensity differed in the two cases .
Action of Cathode Rays on various Mineral Substances .
5 .
For many years I have experimented on the changes produced in ordinary and quartz glass and various crystals by exposure to radium emanations and rays .
Considering the identity of the cathode discharge in a high vacuum tube with the / 3-rays from radium , experiments were started to ascertain if the cathode rays would confer radio-activity in various solid bodies submitted to its influence .
A vacuum tube was prepared with a removable window at one end to allow the contents to be exchanged for other bodies .
In the tube were placed pieces of uranium glass , a crystal of ruby , a crystal of garnet , a piece of quartz , a plate of platinum and one of gold .
The tube was exhausted to a high vacuum just short of the non-conducting point .
On excitation the whole tube was filled with the green glow of phosphorescent glass , the ruby and uranium glass became very phosphorescent , the other bodies remained quite dark .
After an hour 's exposure to the cathode discharge the tube was opened , the objects quickly removed in the dark and placed on a sensitive film ; the upper sides that had received most bombardment being placed downwards on the film .
They were kept thus for eighteen hours and the film then developed .
There was absolutely no impression of any of the bodies on the film .
Thus it appears that the cathode stream will not confer radio-activity on the above-named bodies .
Action of Cathode Rays on Phosphorescent Bodies .
6 .
Experiments were next tried to see if earths and compounds which became strongly phosphorescent under the influence of the cathode discharge would thereby SIR W. CROOKES ON ACQUIRED RADIO-ACTIVITY .
become radio-active .
Some ignited yttrium sulphate , in the condition most sensitive to the cathode rays , and giving under their action a phosphorescent glow with a discontinuous spectrum , was pressed tightly into a shallow aluminium tray and exposed for an hour to the discharge in the vacuum tube .
It was then removed and immediately covered with a sensitive film pressed down with a slight weight .
After forty-eight hours in total darkness the film was developed .
Only a very slight image of the yttria was visible .
This result does not prove that the cathode stream had rendered the yttria radio-active , for there is always a residual glow in the yttria in these circumstances ; it is not unlikely that the light of this glow , acting for the first hour or so of the forty-eight , might have been strong enough to impress the film ( 7 ) .
7 .
Three shallow trays were filled\#151 ; -one with phosphorescent calcium sulphide , another with zinc sulphide , and a third with platinocyanide of barium .
After subjecting them to the cathode stream in the above manner , they were removed and covered with a sensitive film , and kept in darkness for twenty-four hours .
On development only an impression of the zinc sulphide was seen .
As this sulphide also has a certain amount of residual glow after exposure to the cathode rays it is probable that the photographic action is only the result of this glow ( 6 ) .
Action of Radium on Diamond .
In June , 1904 , # I read a paper before the Royal Society on the action of Radium on Diamond .
8 .
A few years later I repeated the original experiment , exposing two New South Wales diamonds to the action of the radium rays and emanations for a longer period .
The diamonds selected were of an identical pale yellow , devoid of radio-activity .
A quartz tube , containing 15 mgrins .
of pure radium bromide was well exhausted and sealed before the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe .
One of the diamonds ( fig. 3a ) was put close to the tube of radium and kept in its place with a piece of gummed paper .
The other diamond ( fig. 3b)was put away in a cabinet and kept far from any radium compound .
The two diamonds were thus left for a little more than six months .
At the end of this time they were examined .
No appreciable difference could be detected in the colour of the two diamonds\#151 ; the one ( fig. 3a ) that had been close to the tube of radium bromide not being darker than the one ( fig. 3b ) which had been away from radium the whole time .
Coloration of Diamond by a-Ray .
9 .
The diamond , 3a , was now enclosed for seventy-eight days in a tube containing radium bromide j at the end of the time it had acquired a bluish green colour .
It was * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. lxxiv .
, p. 47 .
SIR W. CROOKES ON ACQUIRED RADIO-ACTIVITY .
then heated for ten days in a mixture of fuming nitric acid and potassium chlorate so as to dissolve off any outer skin of graphite which might have contributed to the colour ( 3 , 12 , 32 ) .
This treatment brightened its appearance but did not alter the colour .
The diamond was next put on a sensitive photographic film and kept there for twenty-four hours .
On developing , a strong impression was seen .
/ 3- and y-Rays produce Phosphorescence .
10 .
This experiment shows that the alteration of the colour is not due to the phosphorescent state of excitement to which the diamond had been constantly subjected during eight weeks .
The colouring action is cut off by a thin screen of quartz , whereas the phosphorescing action is kept up by rays which pass through quartz .
It is therefore evident that the coloration is due to the a-rays , or atoms of helium , shot from the radium compound ( 26 , 29 , 33 ) .
The phosphorescence is produced by the / 3- or y-rays ( 19 , 26 , 43 ) , which readily pass through glass and quartz .
Persistence of Acquired Radio-activity .
11 .
The acquired radio-activity of diamonds persists for a longer time than I have been enabled to measure , and resists the most violent treatment I have applied to them .
A large brilliant cut diamond of pure water assumed a fine green colour after having been kept for sixteen months ( from May , 1904 , to Sept. , 1905 ) in a bottle and covered wfith powdered radium bromide .
At the end of that time it was highly radio-active .
This diamond has been carried about in my pocket , off and on , since 1905 , and has been tested on a sensitive photographic film at intervals of a year or more .
No appreciable difference in its radio-activity can be detected from that which it possessed when first removed from the radium bromide in Sept. , 1905 .
Examined at the present time , nine years after its removal from the bottle of radium bromide , it is luminous in the dark , it rapidly discharges a sensitive electroscope when held near it , and produces scintillations on a zinc sulphide screen as if it were a radium compound .
12 .
A diamond of good water was selected from a stock of inactive stones , and put in a tube of radium bromide for seventy-eight days .
At the end of that time it had assumed a greenish colour , and was highly radio-active .
It was then heated to 50 ' C. in a mixture of fuming nitric acid and powdered potassium chlorate for ten days , the acid mixture being daily renewed ( 3 , 9 , 32 ) .
The only effect of this acid treatment was to remove a slight dull darkening on the surface , and to render the green tint more brilliant .
SIR W. CROOKES ON ACQUIRED RADIO-ACTIVITY .
After well washing and drying it was put on a sensitive film for five hours .
On developing it was seen that the stone had made a good impression on the film .
13 .
The stone was then sent to a diamond cutter to be cut into a brilliant .
On receiving it back it was quite white and free from trace of colour .
The stone was then placed on a sensitive film and kept in darkness for twenty-two hours .
On developing no impression was apparent , although , before cutting , the active diamond had impressed a film in five hours ( 12 , 16 ) .
Effect of Heat on Induced 14 .
A New South Wales diamond which had always been kept away from radium salts , was tested in the electroscope ( 2 ) and found to give a fall in two seconds , the natural leak being 180 seconds .
The stone was then put in a silica crucible and heated in an electric tray furnace until visibly red .
No change was observed .
After five minutes\#151 ; at , say , 700 ' C.\#151 ; it was allowed to cool .
The time of discharge in the electroscope was found to be six seconds .
15 .
The diamond was then packed in a silica crucible with graphite and heated with a Meker burner to 700 ' C. several times , cooling and testing the diamond each time when cold .
Heated to 700 ' C. for 10 mins , and cooled , time of fall = 6 secs .
5 5 15 , , , , 1 fi 5J \gt ; \gt ; 20 , , , , \#151 ; 10 , , " 20 " " = 30 " It was now left for the night , and measurements resumed next day .
Heated to 700 ' C. for . .
60 mins .
, time of fall = 9 secs .
, , in new graphite for 30 , , " =7 , , New graphite again used .
Tested again after 48 hours , time of fall ... ... ... .=4 secs .
Heated to 700 ' C. for 30 mins .
, and allowed to cool for 2 hours , time of fall ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..=2 " The diamond after the last measurement ( 2 secs .
) was laid on a sensitive film and kept in the dark for twenty-one days ; on development it gave a good image .
This experiment shows a temporary loss of activity by the heat treatment followed in a short time by complete recovery .
16 .
A Kimberley diamond , rather flat , octahedral shaped , was kept in a bottle of dry radium bromide for some weeks until it was quite green .
By means of a steel wheel fed with diamond dust part of one face was cut away , and the surface of an adjoining face was just removed , the adjoining corner thus being freshly exposed diamond crystal .
It was put on a sensitive film in such a position that it could be subsequently examined and compared with the developed image , so that the active portions of the surfaces , natural and ground off , could be seen .
It was allowed to act for five days , when the film was developed .
The result indicated very decidedly that where the surface of the diamond had been removed it was no longer radio-active ( 13 ) .
Experiments with a very Active Diamond Crystal .
17 .
A fine crystal of diamond from Kimberley which had been kept in a bottle of radium bromide for some months was tested on a sensitive film and in the electroscope .
It was found to be highly active , and was set aside for further experiments .
It was luminous in the dark , quickly discharged the electroscope , and caused an inactive diamond held near it to phosphoresce .
It was put on the surface of a screen coated with small crystals of barium platinocyanide , and caused scintillations the same as on a blende screen , but feebler ( 11 , 26 , 27 , 30 , 33 ) .
18 .
A blende screen was made by coating a glass slip with very sensitive zinc sulphide .
This was laid on the diamond , the side next the diamond ; the scintillations were easily seen through it in all their characteristic appearance , with concentration at the edges and corners .
A piece of aluminium sheet , 0'06 mm. thick , was moved about between the screen and crystal of diamond , and there was no doubt whatever that the aluminium stopped all the scintillations .
It was absolutely dark where the aluminium covered the crystal .
19 .
The diamond ( 17 ) wras then held in contact with the card back of a platinocyanide of barium screen .
The luminous patch due to / 3- or y-rays , or to both , was quite evident , moving about as the diamond was moved .
The sheet of aluminium foil , used in the former experiment ( 0'06 mm. thick ) was put between the crystal and the back of the screen , and there was little , if any , diminution in the luminosity .
It is therefore quite certain that the radio-active diamond gives oft* other rays beside a-rays , and that the rays can penetrate aluminium 0'06 mm. thick and the card back of the screen .
20 .
The diamond ( 17 ) was put into various fluorescent solutions ( uranine in water , Silberrard 's ^-nitroso-dimethylanilinenaphthaline compound , and quinine sulphate ) .
It did not occasion the slightest fluorescence , although its own faint luminosity could be seen in the liquid .
21 .
The active diamond ( 17 ) was cemented to a plate of glass , and six small pillars of lead cemented round it the same height as the stone .
The whole was inverted on a sensitive film , and kept in the dark for 2'25 hours .
Another experiment was then tried with the same apparatus , only altering the position of the crystal so that the lead pillars were opposite the angles of the crystal .
The exposure in this case was 6'5 hours .
The pictures on development showed a strong SIR W. CROOKES ON ACQUIRED RADIO-ACTIVITY .
radiation extending some distance round the diamond ( six or eight diameters ) , and the lead pillars showed strong shadows ( Plate 9 , fig. l ) .
22 .
The same experiment was repeated three times with the interposition of one , two , and three thicknesses of aluminium foil 0*01 mm. thick , each was exposed the same time ( two hours ) , and all were developed together .
Each showed strong action near the diamond .
One thickness allowed the shadow of the lead pillars to be easily seen .
Two thicknesses showed the shadow with difficulty , and three thicknesses only showed the shape of the diamond itself .
23 .
The crystal ( 17 ) was removed from its circle of lead pillars ( 21 ) .
A small cell of brass tube 0'5 inch in diameter had six slots cut in it with a file .
The diamond was mounted in such a position that the three corners of the triangular surface that touched the film should come opposite three of the slots .
These experiments show that the diamond is giving off / 3-rays copiously ( fig. 2 ) .
y-Rays from the Radio-active Diamond .
24 .
The diamond ( 17 ) crystal was fixed with its sharpest point upwards in a small thick cell of brass .
Exactly over the point was a small hole 0'5 mm. in diameter and 5 mm. long .
On the top was a piece of sensitive film enclosed in black paper .
The whole was kept in the dark for three hours , when a fair image of the hole was obtained on development .
The apparatus , with another sheet of sensitive film in it , was fixed between the pointed poles of a powerful electromagnet , and a current of 30 amperes was passed through for three hours .
The current was then shut off* , and the film shifted sideways for half an inch , and the action of the diamond without the magnetism was allowed to go on for another three hours .
It was then developed , and both spots appeared about the same intensity .
25 .
The diamond crystal ( 17 ) in its brass box had a thin plate of clear mica put over the hole , and a sheet of lead over that .
All was wrapped in sheet lead , and so kept for about six months .
There was an extremely faint but hardly appreciable darkening of the mica at the position of the hole .
26 .
After the above experiment the diamond was kept in its brass box for two years , and then laid on a sensitive film and kept there for three hours .
On developing , a spot of action was seen , showing that the diamond was still radioactive .
It was removed from its brass cell and examined in the dark on a blende screen .
It gave plenty of scintillations easily visible without a lens .
Experiments showed that it still gave out , along with a-rays , also / 3- and y-rays ( 10 , 19 , 42 , 43 ) .
27 .
A small light-tight box was fitted as a camera .
The arrangements were such that the image on the sensitive film was 1*5 times the size of the object .
A photograph of the radio-active diamond ( 17 ) was taken by the light of its own scintillations on the blende screen ( 17 , 26 , 30 , 33 ) , giving forty-eight hours ' exposure ( fig. 3a ) .
The three bunches of luminosity come from the corners of the crystal that are in contact with the screen .
The photographic impression is certainly discontinuous , appearing granular , corresponding to the granular character of the screen .
It appears that the different grains shine and continue to shine by their own residual phosphorescent light under the impact of the a-particles .
In a further experiment the diamond was illuminated by the arc lamp , and a photograph was made of the diamond crystal in situ as well as of the screen .
This gave a good image of the stone , and also of the granular surface of the screen ( fig. 28 .
It is certain that , in addition to a-rays , the diamond ( 17 ) gives off a considerable amount of other rays ( 10 , 19 , 26 , 42 , 43 ) .
This is shown by the early experiments , where photographic images with the diamond were obtained through one , two , three , and four sheets of aluminium foil\#151 ; each O'Ol mm. thick .
29 .
The crystal of active diamond ( 17 ) , with which most of these experiments have been made , was examined crystallographically by Dr. Tutton , who reported to me that the crystal is an apparent octahedron\#151 ; but composed of two supplementary tetrahedra showing on three of the edges the usual grooves where the interpenetration of the tetrahedra is not complete .
Each of the eight sides of the diamond was photographed by its own radio-activity ( fig. 4 ) .
30 .
Experiments show that exposure of a zinc-sulphide screen to the impact of electrons from the negative pole in a vacuum tube does not cause scintillations .
It appears that only a-rays ( positive atoms ) produce this effect ( 11 , 17 , 26 , 27 , 33 ) ; it was therefore interesting to see if scintillations could be produced by bombarding a sulphide screen with a stream of positive atoms produced in a " Thompson " tube .
An apparatus was fitted up having a zinc-sulphide screen to receive the positive discharge\#151 ; -but no effect of scintillation could be observed .
Action of Radium Emanation on Diamond and other Bodies .
31 .
After repeated observations on the action of radium on various substances , it was seen that diamond behaved differently to glass , quartz , and other materials , especially if the action of the radium had been continued for some length of time .
The following experiments were made to see if definite light could be thrown upon this point .
Some plates and crystals of pure quartz , lead glass , Faraday 's boro-silicate lead glass , and three diamonds were selected\#151 ; well cleaned , and exposed upon a sensitive film for twenty-four hours .
On- development it was seen that all were inactive , except in the case of two of the diamonds , but from these the action was so slight as to be only just visible upon the film .
These objects were now laid upon a table of clean platinum gauze and enclosed in an air-tight glass vessel , together with an open bottle containing pure radium bromide .
" They were allowed to remain SIR W. CROOKES ON ACQUIRED RARIO-ACTTVITY .
exposed to radium emanation ( 33 ) for forty-eight hours ; they were then removed from the chamber and laid upon a sensitive film for twenty-four hours .
Upon development each object was found to be active and there was nothing to show that the three diamonds had acted differently to the quartz or glass ( fig. 5 ) .
The objects were now all boiled in dilute nitric acid and thoroughly washed in clean water .
They were placed on a film and allowed again to remain for twenty-four hours ; on development it was seen that practically the whole of the " activity " had been removed\#151 ; the two diamonds that originally were very slightly active had , perhaps , gained a little , but all the other objects had lost their temporary activity .
32 .
The experiments were still further extended .
Two fragments of lead glass and one diamond crystal that had been buried in radium for over two years and had become deeply coloured , the diamond green and the lead glass brown , were removed from the radium and cleaned as far as possible with a dry brush .
They were kept upon a film for five days .
On development the photograph showed three equally dense black patches .
The glass and diamond were now boiled in dilute nitric acid , thoroughly washed , laid upon a film , and kept there for eighteen hours .
Upon development the pieces of glass were seen to have almost lost their activity\#151 ; the diamond gave a dense black impression .
The objects were now placed in a mixture of fuming nitric acid and potassium chlorate and kept just short of boiling point for six hours , frequently removing the weakened solution and adding fresh acid and chlorate ( 3 , 9 , 12 ) ; they were then thoroughly cleaned , dried , and laid upon a film for eighteen hours .
On development the glass blocks gave impressions slightly fainter than before , while the diamond still gave a dense black image almost as strong as before the treatment .
33 .
An examination with a zinc-sulphide screen showed that the diamond caused brilliant scintillations from its edges and corners and a few erratic scintillations could be detected round each of the fragments of glass ( ll , 17 , 26 , 27 , 30 ) .
The net result of these experiments is to show that although the well-known condensation of emanation ( 3l ) upon crystals and objects gives rise to photographic markings of patterns as described in this research and in previous papers by Sir Ernest Rutherford* and other observers , this superficial activity can be easily and completely removed by washing in dilute acids .
The two kinds of acquired activity are illustrated in figs. 6 and 7 .
Fig. 6 is a radiograph of a crystal of quartz that had been rendered active by exposure to radium emanation , while fig. 7 is a radiograph of a crystal of diamond that had been covered in a bottle with radium bromide crystals for many months .
While the former points to a superficial coating of active matter , the latter is more suggestive of a brush discharge from the corner of the diamond crystal .
If the action of the emanation is allowed to continue until colour changes are produced both in glass and diamond , the activity is retained even after many * " Distribution of the Intensity of the Radiation from Radio-active Sources , " by Sir Ernest Rutherford , F.R.S. , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' August , 1906 .
YOL .
CCXIV.---A .
hours boiling in powerful acids , and the diamond retains its activity with much greater tenacity than the other materials\#151 ; nothing short of actually cutting away the surface will remove it .
The diamond crystal\#151 ; that had been rendered active by immersion in dry radium bromide for some months in 1906 ( 17 ) and has been treated with acids , heated , and used in hundreds of experiments since\#151 ; is apparently as active now as when it was removed from the radium , and still pours out streams of a-rays* ( Plate 10 ) .
Fig. 8 shows two radiographs of this crystal , having an interval of five years between them .
Fig. 8a was taken in 1909 and fig. 8b a few days ago .
34 .
As in the case of diamond , a quartz glass dish after the action of radium retains its colour and activity , and continues to give off a- , / 3~ , and y-rays ( fig. 9 ) .
One-half had a film of aluminium , 0'035 mm. thick , interposed between the dish and the sensitive plate .
Vessels of pure fused silica that have been much used for the crystallisation of radium salts become coloured a purplish tint , similar to that assumed by soda glass in similar circumstances .
On heating such a coloured vessel with a spirit lamp to a temperature much below a red heat it suddenly phosphoresces a bluish colour and at a red heat becomes colourless .
35 .
A small equilateral prism was cut from a block of heavy glass ( sp. gr. 3'87 ) , polished on its three refracting faces , but left rough ground on the triangular top and bottom .
It was put into a bottle and covered with dry crystals of radium bromide for fifteen hours .
At the end of this time it was removed , well washed and placed on a sensitive film , base downwards , for twenty-two hours .
On development a strong action was apparent with overflow radiation along the sides and the continuation of the faces in triangular lines ( fig. 10 ) as observed by Sir E. Rutherford .
36 .
One of the rough ground bases of the prism was now polished over the greater part of its surface , leaving a strip of glass along one edge in its original unpolished condition .
This end was then laid on a sensitive film for thirty-six hours .
On the polished portion of the surface there was absolutely no perceptible action on developing , while the part left unpolished was highly active\#151 ; -as in the first experiment with the prism ( fig. ll ) .
37 .
The prism was now laid on a sensitive film on one of its polished faces for twenty-four hours .
On development slight action was observed where the polished face touched the sensitive surface and a much stronger overflow action with continuation of the edges of the prism face in straight lines as mentioned above ( fig. 12 ) .
38 .
The same prism was taken , and a diagonal scratch made with a writing diamond across the same face that touched the film in the last experiment .
It was laid with this face downwards on a sensitive film for twenty-four hours .
On * These experiments are closely connected with those of Swinton , Colley , Ramsay , and others , who have shown that helium is driven into the glass walls of a vacuum tube even by the slower moving cathode rays .
The high speed a-particles evidently are driven into the diamond , below the molecular surface .
SIR W. CROOKES ON ACQUIRED RADIO-ACTIVITY .
development the image showed action as before where the face touched the film , but the line of scratch where the surface of the glass had been abraded by the diamond was blank , showing no action whatever ( fig. 13 ) .
39 .
A triangular plate , about 1 mm. thick , was polished on its three edges , and kept in a bottle of solid radium bromide for sixty-eight hours , then laid on a sensitive film for four hours .
There was very little action to be seen on development on the part where the face touched the film , but there was strong -action radiating from the edges , with a continuation of the line of edge from each point ( fig. 14 ) .
The plate was now cut into two equal parts , and the two halves , separated about a centimetre , were laid on a sensitive film and there kept for forty-eight hours .
On developing , it was seen that the action of the flat surface was the same as before , but while the overflow action from the original corners was also the same , there was no action at all along the cut surface ( fig. 15 ) .
40 .
A glass tube that had contained 25 mgrm .
of pure radium bromide was cut in half to remove the radium , and well washed and boiled in acids .
It was of a dark blue colour .
After being in a cabinet for many months the two halves were laid on a sensitive film in a line , the cut surfaces opposite each other and separated about 2 mm. After four hours ' contact the film was developed when the appearance presented that of a streaming brush discharge from the two ends of each half\#151 ; the part where the tubes themselves rested having made no impression ( fig. 16 ) .
Superficial Action of Radium on Mica .
41 .
Radium bromide has been imported from the Continent in small ebonite boxes covered with a disc of mica .
One of these discs was first well washed to remove any adhering grains of radium salt\#151 ; it was then split into four flakes .
The upper flake , of a strong brown colour , discharged the electroscope in three seconds .
The next film , also showing brown discolouration , required 3'5 seconds .
The third film , not discoloured at all , required twelve seconds , while the last film , which had been furthest from the radium , required eighteen seconds for discharge , showing that the greater part of the activity was near the surface and corresponded with the coloration .
Action of X-Rays on Diamond .
42 .
Experiments were instituted to ascertain how X-rays affected the diamond .
A tray full of crystals of diamond was exposed to X-rays from a hard tube , covered in card and velvet so as to prevent interference from the luminosity of the glass .
Most of the stones became luminous\#151 ; but in different degrees .
Two stones specially were noticed .
One large stone shone very brightly , with a blue 3 l 2 tint , the other , smaller , was only just luminous .
A sheet of aluminium , 3'2 mm. thick , was now interposed in the path of the X-rays , when the phosphorescence of the large bright stone was considerably reduced , while that of the small faint stone was not diminished at all .
Action of ft- Itays on Diamond .
These two diamonds were subjected to the action of solid radium bromide , and the intensity of the phosphorescence thereby induced was seen to be of the same character as that caused by the X-rays .
An extension of the experiment with radium , described in the next paragraph , showed that the effect of phosphorescence was mostly due to the / 3-rays ( 10 , 19 , 26 ) .
43 .
An apparatus ( fig. 17 ) was fitted so that the active rays from a bottle of radium bromide ( a ) should pass through a tube drilled through a lead block ( b ) , and allowed to pass upwards on a diamond ( c ) supported on a plate of aluminium , 0'02 mm. thick .
This was arranged between the poles of a powerful electromagnet , so that the active rays from the radium should pass through the hole and act on the diamond when the magnetism was off , and be deflected from it when the magnetism was on .
A screen of barium platinocyanide put over the hole in the lead block showed a circular spot of phosphorescence .
This luminosity vanished when magnetism was turned on , and reappeared when it was turned off , showing that the luminosity on the screen was chiefly due to the / 3-rays ( 10 , 19 , 26 ) .
The two large and small diamonds used in the last experiment were put side by side on the aluminium , and the support so arranged that it could be moved sideways to put either stone over or away from the hole in the lead block .
It was easy to see by small movements of the support that , as in the case of the X-rays , the large stone was much more phosphorescent than the smaller stone .
There was considerable residual luminosity , each of the stones continuing to glow with its relative intensity when effectually removed from the radium .
Having found the position of maximum brightness for the large stone when over the radium , the current was turned on , so as to deflect the / 3-rays .
At once the glow declined , and the residual phosphorescence faded .
On taking the current off , so as to allow the / 3-rays again to come into action , the brilliancy increased again .
There was no doubt as to the action , although the undeflected y-rays and the residual luminosity tended to obscure the observations , Fig. 17 .
Phil. Trans. , A,.vol .
214 , Plate 9 .
Fig. 2 .
Crookes .
Fig. 8 .
Phil. Trans. , A , vol. 214 , Plate 10 .
Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
Fig. 11 .
Fig. 12 .
Fig. 13 .
Fig. 14 .
Fig. 16 .
Fig. 15 .
SIR W. CROOKES ON ACQUIRED RADIO-ACTIVITY .
44 .
The results described in this paper may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; Various objects , diamond , ruby , garnet , quartz , gold , platinum , \amp ; c. , also the phosphorescent substances yttria , calcium sulphide , zinc blende , and barium platinocyanide , are bombarded in a high vacuum by cathode rays , and in no case can any permanent activity be recognised either by photographic or electrical means ( l , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 ) .
Exposure to radium emanation confers temporary radio-activity on all bodies that have been tried ; apparently due to the condensation of the emanation on the surface .
This transient activity can be completely removed by washing in dilute acids ( 31 ) .
Many substances become coloured by direct exposure to radium , the colour depending on the substance .
Diamonds take a full sage-green tint , the depth depending on the time of exposure to the radium ( 33 ) .
In addition to change of colour diamond also becomes persistently radio-active continuously giving off a- , 8- , and y-rays .
The acquired colour and activity withstand the action of powerful chemical agents , and continue for years with apparently undiminished activity ( 12,31,32 ) .
Removing the surface by mechauical means removes both colour and radioactivity ( 13 , 16 , 35 , 37 , 41 ) .
The appearance of an auto-radiograph made by placing an active diamond crystal on a sensitive photographic plate , and the visual examination of its " scintillation " luminosity , suggest that there is a special discharge of energy from the corners and points of the crystal ( 18 , 21 , 23 , 27 , 33 ) .

