446 Mr. A. Fraser .
On the Development of the [ Mar. 30 , March 30 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT ( followed by THE TREASURER ) in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Anthony John Mundella was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Development of the Ossicula Anditus in the Higher Mammalia .
" By Alexander Fraser , M.B. , \amp ; c. , Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy , the Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Dr. Allen Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The paper begins by .-a history of the various views held np to the present date concerning the origin of the Ossicula Auditus .
The author then describes the methods of preparation , and the results of his own observations made upon complete series of sections from the rat , pig , sheep , dog , rabbit , calf , mouse , and human embryos at different developmental stages .
He gives a short anatomical sketch of the parts in connexion with the proximal extremities of the first two post-oral cartilages , including the ganglion , the maxillary and mandibular branches \lt ; \#169 ; f the fifth nerve , the seventh nerve , and its mandibular ( chorda tympani ) branch ( noting the relation which this branch bears to the hyoidean cartilage , and the long crus of the incus ) , the auditory vesicle and its capsule with the difference in development between the oval and round fenestree , the primitive jugular vein , the hyo-mandibular cleft ( and its non-perforation in the region of the membrana tympani ) , and the tympanic annulus .
The author describes the malleus as having its origin in the proximal extremity of the mandibular cartilage , the apex of which , growing in a ventral direction , depresses the dorsal wall of the meatus auditorius externus upon the ventral , and thus becomes the manubrium of the malleus .
He further compares the embryonic ossicula with their form in the adult , and traces the origin from the mandibular cartilage of certain parts in the adult malleus of Mammalia of great morphological significance .
1882.1 Ossicula Auditus in the Higher Mammalia .
447 He has ascertained that the head of the mens is the proximal extremity of the hyoidean cartilage , the long crus forming the con-nectino- part between it and the remainder of the cartilage .
The short crus is'a later growth backwards from the head ot the incus .
This ossicle agrees in its histological characters with the hyoidean cartilage and not with the mandibular .
The mandibular branch of the seventh nerve bears also the same relation to its long crus in the human embryos as it bears to the hyoidean cartilage .
The orbicular apophysis is shown to be a part of the long crus , which turns inwards to accommodate itself to the stapes at right angles to its former direction ; its constricted pedicle is not formed until after birth .
The cells of the embryonic stapes appear contemporaneously with those forming the embryonic cartilage in the arches , or those forming the periotic capsule ; they are arranged in a circular form round an artery , which may either disappear very early , as in the human embryo , or persist through life , as in the rat .
In the former case it is called arteria stapedialis , in the latter arteria stapedio-maxillaris .
This circular ring is at first of equal thickness all round , and is not even m contact with the periotic capsule , but is more closely connected with the hyoidean cartilage , although its cells cannot be described as continuous with the cells of that cartilage , their long axes having a circular and not an antero-posterior direction .
Owing chiefly to the growth of the cochlear part of the labyrinth , the stapes applies itself to the wall of that cavity , forms a depression there , the future fenestra ovalis ; the margins of its base and the head are the last to develop .
The articulation between the head of the stapes and the long cius of the incus is formed at the same time as that between the malleus and incus .
The tubercle on its posterior crus bears the same relation to the stapedius muscle as the processus muscularis of Hyrtl to the tensor tympani .
The stapedius muscle agrees m its development with the tensor tympani , or any other muscle m the region of the head , and the nucleus in its tendon , which has been described as an inter-hyal , has no connexion with the hyoidean cartilage , in truth , not being present at all in any of the embryos on which I have worked ; so that when it is present it must be looked upon as a development in a tendon similar to that which occurs in many other muscles of the body .
The author was anticipated by Salensky in the publication of the discovery of the peculiar mode of origin of the stapes round an artery ; but his observation of this fact was made independently of Salensky 's , and before the appearance of that writer s memoir , and he has been able both to correct and to add considerably to Salensky 's description of the development of this ossicle .

