]\gt ; 1878 .
] G. H. Darwin on the Tides of Viscous eroids .
\ldquo ; I have examined this equation at length in the special case The tetrazomal , which is of the eighth degree , breaks up into two factors .
One factor represents the circle and the square of the line gaining the points ( ) , ( o ) , the other denotes an unicurs quartic whose three double points are and the polc respect to the circle of the line these These results hold for the plane and sphere , and , \amp ; c. , denote circles as well as lines .
They are also truc for conics having double contact with ] a given conic .
Besides the { extensions of } theorems , the some theorenls which are also exlendod to conics having double contact with given conic .
Thus , ' ' if a circle be touched by ftny number of circles , \amp ; c. , and if we denote by the product of the common tangents from any circle of the systcm to all the remaining circles , then the equations of will be a factor in the ] This theorem is , I believe , one of the ost rtile in geometry .
paper contains a ] arge number of deductions from it , but ) it is far from them . .
' On the Bodily Tides of Viscous and -Elastic Spheroids , and on the Oceftn Tides 011 ) , By GEORGE H. cllow of ) idge .
Communicated by J. .
L. May 14 , 1878 .
( Abstrftct .
) Sir W. Thomson 's tion of bodily tides of elastic sphere*has gone far to overthrow the i of a .
to the earth , yet goologists are so strongly ) ssccl by enormous masses of rock have been poured ont of volcalllc vents *Phil .
Trans. , 1863 , p. 573 , an .
of 1867 , SS 733-737 and 420 Mr. G. A. Darwin on the Bodily Tides [ May 23 , the earth 's surface , that the belief is not yet extinct that we live on a thin shell over a sea of molten lava .
It appeared to me , therefore , to be of interest to investigate the consequences which would arise from the supposition that the matter constituting the earth is of a or elastic nature .
In this paper I follow out these hypo .
theses , and it will be seen that the resuIts are fully as hostile to the idea of any great mobility of the interior of the earth as are those ol Sir W. Thomson .
I begin by showing that the equations of flow of an iscous fluid have precisely the same form as those of strain of an elastic solid , at least when inertia is neglected .
Hence every problem about the strains of the latter has its analogue touching the flow of the former .
This being so , the solution of Sir W. Thom .
son 's problem of the bodily tides of an elastic sphere may be adapted to give the bodily tides of a viscous spheroid .
Sir W. Thomson , how .
ever , introduces the effects of the mutual gravitation of the parts 04 the sphere , by a synthetical method , after he has found the state internal strain of an elastic sphere devoid of gravitational power The parallel synthetical method becomes , in the case of the spheroid , somewhat complex , and I have preferred to adapt the solutiol analytically so as to include gravitation .
The solution is only applicable when the disturbing potential capable of expansion as a series of solid harmonics , and it that each harmonic term in the potential acts independently of all others ; it is thus only necessary to consider a typical term in poteJltial .
It is shown finaily that if , be the velocities of the fluid a point whose polar -ordinates in the sphere are radially , and along and perpendicular to the meridian ; the coefficient of viscosity ; the disturbing potentia ] , a solid harmonic of ; ' ' the mcan radius , the density of the eneous spheroid , and vity ; the equation to the bounding surface of the spheroid ; then the same ' where , a surface harmonic of order .
A differential equation is then found , which gives the form of the face at any time under the action of any disturbing potential 1878 .
] of Viscous and lastic Spheroids .
421 which satisfies the condition of expansibility as a series of solid harmonics .
When tlIe disturbing is zero , and when is the equation to the free surface initially , then the equation to the surface at the time is given by , where This gives the law of the subsidence of inequalities on the surface of a viscous globe under the intiuence of simple gravitation ; and it is suggested that some light may possibly be thrown thereby on the of geoIogical subsidence and upheaval .
It appears from formula that inequalities of wide extent will subside much more quickly than wrinkles .
The rate is found at which a rotating spheroid would adjust ilsclf to a new form of ailibrium , its axis of figure is not coincident with that of rotation ; and the law is established which was assumed in a former paper .
The case is next considered where is a surface harmonic of the second order , multiplied by a simple time harmonic\mdash ; that is to say . .
This is the assumption appropriate for the tidal problem .
The forces in this case do not form a rigorously equilibrating system ; but there is a couple of the second order of small quantities called into existence , the consideration of which is deferred to a future paper .
It is then shown that if be a term in the tido-generating potential , and if , the tide of the viscous spheroid is equal in height to the equilibrium tide of a perfectly fluid spheroid multiplied by , and the tide is rded b \mdash ; : .
It is next proved that the equilibrium tide of a shallow ocean overlying the nucleus is equal to the like tide on a rigid nucleus multiplied by that there is an acceleration of the time of high water equal to This theory is then applied to the lunar semi-diurnal and fortnightly tides , and tables are given from which the following is extracted\mdash ; the coefficient of viscosity being expressed in gramme-weights , centimeters , and seconds .
* I write " " for " " to the power of " " On the Influence of Geological Changes on the Earth 's of Rotntion Phil. Trnns .
, vol. clxvii , Pt. I , p. 282 .
I take this of corl ecting slight misin that paper ; the formula in the fourth hne from the bottom of p. 301 , bhonld run cotqc \amp ; c. The mistake arose in copying out the mula , and does not affcct qcthe subscquenl arithmetical 422 Mr. G. A. Darwin on the Bodity Tides [ May 23 , Lunar Semi-dinrnal Tide .
ration oiuid rigid mino otide Fortnightly Tide .
days 1 Rigidity A comparison of the numbers in first column with the viscosity of pitch at near the frcezing temperature ( when I found by rough experiments that its viscosity was about ) , shows how enormously stiff the earth must be to resist the tidally distorting influence of the moon .
It may be remarked that pitch at this temperature is hard , apparently solid and brittle ; and if the earth was not very far stiffer than pitch , it would comport itself sensibly like a perfect fluid , and there would be no ocean tides at all .
It follows , therefore , that no very considerable portion of the interior of the earth can even distantly approach the fluid condition .
This does not , however , seem conclusivs against the existence of bodily tides in the earth of the kind here considered ; for , under the enormous pressures which must exist in the interior of the earth , even the solidest substances might be induced to flow to some extent like a fluid of great viscosity .
The theory of the bodily tides of an " " elastico-viscous\ldquo ; spheroid is next developed .
The kind of } ) erfection of elasticity considered is where the forces requisite maintain the body in any strained configuration diminish in geometrical ression , as the time increases in arithmetical progression .
There are two constants which define the mechanical nature of sort of solid : first , the coefficient of rigidity , at the instant immediately after the body been strained ; and second , " " the modulus of the time of relaxation of rigidity\ldquo ; , which is the time in which the force lisite to maintain the body in ibs strained position has diminished to or 368 of its iritial value .
I am not aware that there is any experimental justification for the assumption of such a law ; but after dering the various physical of iscous and Semi-Elastic Spheroids .
)bjections which may be raised to it , I came to the conclusion that the nvestigation was still of some value .
The equations of flow of such an ideal solid have been iven ( with some ssistance from Professor Maxwell ) by .
Butcher*and they bhat , if the body be incompressible , and if incrtia be neglected , they may be written in exactly the same form as the equations of of a purely viscous fluid , cocfficient ?
mcrely lacino .
the coefficient of viscosity .
Hence it follows the solution previously found may be at once adapted to the ncw hypothcsis .
In the application to the tidal problem , if the tial be as before , , and if , and , it appears that the bodily tide raised by this potential is equal to the corresponding tide of a perfectly fluid spheroid multiplied by , and the tide is retarded by a time Also the oquilibrium tide of a shallow the clastico-viscous nucleus is equal to the tide on a nuclcus tiplied by , and there is an cceleration of the time of water equal to \mdash ; \mdash ; - .
If be taken as zero , whilst is infinite , but ( the of viscosity ) finite , the solution becomes already found for a purely viscous spheroid .
If , on the other be infinitc , the solution that of Sir W. Thomson 's problem of the purely elastic sphere .
TLis hypothesis is therefore intermediate between those of pure viscosity pure elasticity .
Sir William homson worked out llumerically the bodily tidcs of stic spheres with the rigidities of glass and of iron ; and bless of results are given for those rigidities , with varioufi times of relaxation of rigidity , for tho semi-diurnal and fortnightly tides .
It appears that if the time of relaxation of is bout o quarter of the tidal period , then the reduction of ocean tide does llot differ much from it would be if the spheroid were elastic .
The acceleration of tide , however , still able ; and a like observation may be made in } case of pure viscosity approaching rigidity .
This leads me to think th of most promising ways of detecting tides in ) by the determination of the periods of maximum and mllllmnm in tido of long period in a high latitude .
But I am unfortunately un inted with practical tidal observation , and cannot toll how ffi it would be possible to carry out this suggostion . .
Math. Soc. , Dec. 14 , 1876 , pp. 107-9 .
424 Prof. M. Simpson on the Formation of [ May 23 , It is then shown that the effects of inertia , which had been neglected in finding the laws of the tidal movements , cannot be such as to mate .
rially affect the accuracy of results .
In the first part of this paper I followed Sir W. Thomson in using the equilibrium theory for the determination of tho amount of reduc .
tion of ocean tides .
But that theory is acknowledged on all hands to be very faulty in its explanation of of short period ; hence a dynamical of the effects of a bodily yielding of the earth on a tide of short period in a shallow equatorial canal appeared likely to be interesting .
This investigation is carried out in the second part of the paper .
The problem is simplified by supposing the circular canal developed into a straight canal , whose bottom is constrained to execute a simple harmonic wave motion .
The resulb shows that the height of the ocean tide to the nucleus bears the same relation to the height of tide on a rigid nucleus as in the equilibrium theory , and that the alteration of phase is the same .
This seems to increase the force of Sir W. Thomson 's argument as to the rigidity of the earth .
The chief practical result of this paper may be summed up by saying , that it is strongly confirmatory of the view that the earth has a very great effective rigidity ; but its chief value is , that it forms a necessary first chapter to the investigation of the precession of viscous and imperfectly elastic spheroids\mdash ; an investigation which I hope to complete very shorbly .
VI .
" " On the Formation of Chlor-iodide and Brom-iodide of Ethylidene By Dr. MAXWELL SIMPSON , F.B.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Queen 's College , Cork .
Received May 7 , 1878 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) Chlor-iodide of ethylidene .
This body I have succeeded in CHCII preparing by two processes .
First Process.\mdash ; A quantity of iodide of ethylidene , which had been prepared by Gustavson 's method , and heated to C. but not distilled , was vigorously agitated for some time with a weak solution of chloride of iodine without the tion of heat .
The excess of was then poured off , and the product well washed with dilute potash and distilled .
Almost the entire quantity passed over between 110 and C. This yielded , on fractioning , a large quantity of fluid boiling between 116 and C. , most between 117 and This was the body in question .
The chloride of iodine used in this process was

