]\gt ; [ 33 ] II .
Reseurches in Motion.\mdash ; Part III .
On or W. M. HICKS , , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics University , Sheffield .
Received January 12 , \mdash ; Read February 3 , 1898 .
ATES 1 CONTENTS .
ART .
PAGE .
Introduction . . . . .
34 Section .\mdash ; General Theorems .
1 .
Analogue of spiral cylindric vortex 36 2 .
General nature of motion . . . .
3 .
Spiral motion in general , with given . . . . .
.37 4 .
Application of culvilinear co-ordinates . . . . .
39 5 .
Condition of steadiness impressed .
Differential equation in 42 Section ii.\mdash ; Non-Gyrostatic Aggregates .
6 .
Monad aggregates HILL'S vortex . . . . .
43 7 .
Dyad aggregates . . . . .
45 8 .
Poly-ad aggregates . . . . . . . . . . .
48 9 .
Equatorial axes . . . . .
51 10 .
Energy . . . . .
52 11 .
Comparison with ring aggregates . . . . .
12 .
Spheroidal aggregates . . . . .
13 .
Dyad spheroids . . . .
: . . .
58 Section iu.\mdash ; Gyrostatic Aygregates .
14 .
Case i.\mdash ; F uniform and .
Aggregate with solid oval nuclous . . . .
5 15 .
Case ii.\mdash ; F uuiform and .
General form of . . . . .
61 16 .
Stream-function for given sphere and parametel . . . . .
17 .
The two cyclic constants . . . . .
18 .
Moment of angular momentum . . . . . .
19 .
Energy . . . . .
66 20 .
Velocity of translation . . . . . .
68 21 .
The stream and vortex spirals . . . . . . . . .
69 22 .
Values of the and parameters . . . . .
73 23 .
Position of equatorial axes . . . . .
75 24 .
Forms and angular pitches of spiraSs . . . . . .
/ 8 25 .
Graphical methods . . . . . . . . .
90 26 .
The and aggregates of the first two oldels . . . . . . .
27 .
Poly-ad aggregates .
Case of dyads . . . . . . . . .
95 * Parbs I. and II .
, ' Phil. ' 1884 1885 ( Ir .
) VOL. CXCII.\mdash ; A. 10.12.98 THE chief part of the following investigation ( Sects . .
and ) was undertaken with the view of discovering whether it was possible to imagine a kind of vortex motion which would impress a gyrostatic quality which the forms of vortex aggregates hithel to known do not possess .
The other part ( Sect. ii .
) deals with the nonvortex aggregates , the discovery of which we owe to HILL and investithe conditions undel which two or more aggregates may be combined into one .
It is shown that it is allowable to suppose one or more concentric shells of vortex to be applied ovel a central spherical nucleus , subject to one relation between the radii and the vorticities .
In all cases the vorticities must be in opposite directions in alternate shells .
The special case when the aggregates re built up of f , he same ical matter is considered , and the magnitudes of the radii and the positions of the axes determined .
The cases of motion in a rigid spheroidal shell and of dyad spheroidal ates are also considered .
The chief part of the paper refers to gyrostatic aggregates .
The investigation brought to light an entirely new system of spiral vortices .
The general conditious for the existence of such systems , when the motion is symmetrical about axis , are determined in Sect. , and are worked out in more detail for a particular case of aggregate in Sect. iii .
It is found that the motion in meridian planes is determined from a certain function in the usual manner .
The velocity along a parallel of latitude is given by where is the distance of the point the axis .
The function , however , does not depend on the differential of the dinary non-spiral type , but is a solution of the equation where and are both functions of .
The case and both uniform is briefly treated .
It refers to a spiral aggregate with a central solid nucleus , and is not .
great interest .
The case uniform and is treated more fully .
If where is the radius of the aggregate The most striking and remarkable fact brought out is that with increasing parameter , we get a periodic system of families of aggregates .
The members of each family differ from one another in the number of layers and equatorial axes they possess .
I have ventured to call them singlets , doublets , triplets , \amp ; c. , in contradistinction to the more or less fortuitous and olnpounds dealt with later , and which I have named monads , dyads , riads , \amp ; c. Of these families two are investigated more in than the others .
In one family ( the family ) all the members remain at rest in the surrounding fluid .
In the other family ) the * ' ' On a Spherioal Vortex ' Phil. Trans , vol. 185 , 1894 .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
.35 feature common to all the members is that the stream lines and the vortex lines are coincident .
The parameter defines the total angular pitch of the stream lines , on the outer current-sheet , , up the polar axis and down the outside ; although in the aggregates with more than one axis these lines are not one continuous stream line .
The first aggregates\mdash ; with.the first parameter)behave abnormally .
Beyond these we get successive series , in one set of which the velocity of translation is in the same direction as the polar motion of the central nucleus , in the alternate set the velocity is opposite , and the aggregate regredes in the fluid as compared with its central aggregate ( see fig. 3 , Plate 1 ) .
The physical analogue of these aggregates is obvious .
It is specially enlarged upon in the abstract .
Suppose we set ourselves the problem of making a set of aggl.egates with greater and greater angular pitch .
As we do so we shall find that as the pitch increases the equatorial axis contracts , and the surface velocity diminishes .
On the outer layers ( ring shaped ) the spiral is chiefly produced on the inner side facing the polar axis , until on the boundary itself the stream lines flow in meridians , and the twist is altogether on the polar axis .
The pitch can be increased up to a certain degree .
As this is done , the stream lines and vortex lines fold up towards one another , coincide at a certain pitch , and exchange sides .
When an external angular pitch of about 33 is attained it is impossible to go further if a simple aggregate is desired .
If a higher pitch is desired it is attained by taking it in two parts .
First , a central spherical nucleus of the same nature as the former , in which a portion of the twist is produced , and outside this a spherical shell , in which the spirals have the same direction of twist , and complete the pitch to the desired amount but iu which the spirals are traversed in the opposite direction .
With increasing pitch this layer becomes thicker , and its equatorial axis contracts relatively to the midpoint of the shell until another limit is reached ; the stream and vortex lines again fold together , cross , and expand as this second limit is reached .
If a larger pitch still is desired there must be a third ] ayer , and so on .
The first coincidence of vortex and stream lines takes place for an aggregate whose pitch is .
Whenevsr a maximum pitch is attained the aggregate is at rest in the fluid .
This is first attained for an external pitch of .
Beyond this there are two equatorial axes .
For an external pitch of the stream and vortex lines coincide , the internal nucleus gives of the pitch and the outer shell the remainder , and so on .
At the end a theory of compound aggregates is developed similar to that in Sect. ii .
for non-gyrostatic vortices .
It is not worked out in detail in the present communication , but the conditions are determined for dyad compounds , whilst a similar theory holds for triad and higher ones .
Each element of a poly-ad may consist of singlets , doublets , \amp ; c. The equations of condition leave three quantities arbitrary\mdash ; * .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 332 .
as , for instance , ratio of volumes , ratio of primary cyclic constants , ratio of secondary cyclic constants .
The full development of this theory is .
however , left for a future communication .
It is clear that spiral or gyrostatic vortex gregates are not confined to forms symmetrical about an axis .
Their theory is vever much more complicated .
If we take any particular spherical aggregate with given and primary .
cyclic constant ( ) , the energy is determinate .
We may : however , alter the energy .
If it be increased , the form begins to open out into a ring form , whose shape and properties have not yet ) investigated .
If the energy be increased sufficiently the aperture becomes large compared with the thickness of the rotational core , and approximate calculation can ] be applied .
differential equation for is given in Sect. , but its development is left for a future occasion .
After that I hope to deal with the question of stability , and then more fully with that of the conditions of combination .
The new field opens up so many questions of interest that other workers in it are welcomed .
Section i.\mdash ; General Theorems .
1 , To give an idea of the nature of the motions considered in the present investigation , consider the case of motion of an infinitely long cylindrical vortex of sectional adius a. The velocity perpendicular to the axis inside the vortex will be of the form , where .
Outside it will be given by ; where .
We may , however , have a motion in which the fluid moves parallel to the axis inside the cylinder with rest outside .
The velocity will be of the form inside , where ] , and zero outside .
Both and are arbitrary functions subject only to the conditions and Putting aside for the present the question of the stability of these simple motions or of their resultant , it is cJear that if we superpose the two we get another state of motion in hich we have vortex-filaments in the shape of helices lying on concentric cylindric surfaces .
The problem to be considered is whether it is possible to conceive a similar superposition of two motions in the case of any vortex aggregate whose motions are symmetric about an axis .
There are an infinite number of either ring-shaped vortices , or singly connected aggregates ( of which HILL'S vortex may serve as a type ) , differing from one another in the law of vorticity of the different parts\mdash ; the most important being those in which the ticity is uniform .
The motions in all these are known in terms of the strearn function .
The value of is however at present only actually known for an infinitely thin meant or for a spherical aggregate .
2 .
We are to consider two superposed motions .
The one component is in meridian planes through an axis and can be defined in terms of the stream-function The oughout is taken as the total flow through the circle whose radius is .
In other words the velocity perpendicular to is PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
other component is everywhere perpendicular to these meridian planes .
The vortex aggregates will be moving with rectilinear translation the fluid with a velocity calculable , when the distribution of vortex motion is known , by HELMHOLTZ'S method .
Bring the aggregate to rest by impressing everywhere a velocity equal and opposite to the velocity of translation .
The motion then consists of a flow up through the centre in the direction of previous translation , the fluid then streaming ( in this most general case ) in spirals round a certain circle .
The circle may conveniently be called the of the gregate .
The line of symmetry through the centre in the direction of translation may then be termed the .
Whether we deal with ring-shaped or singly connected aggregates , the surfaces will always be ring-shaped inside .
In fact they are so also at the boundary , the surface value of really consists in the latter case of the outer boundary together with the polar axis .
3 .
Conceive now the aggregate divided up into a large number of -surfaces given by values of a parameter differing by , and confine attention to what is going on between the two urfaces and .
We shall suppose to increase we pass from the outside inwards .
Let denote the distance at a point between the surfaces and to be measured also inwards .
In the shell considered .
the lines of flow will be spiral , and the vortex-filaments also spirals , as indicated in the figure , the thin line P. representing a line of flow , the thick a vortex-filament , Fig. 1 .
and the line a meridian section .
) enote the velocity at by and the angle it makes with the meridian by .
Also let denote the molecular rotation at , and the angle the fila1nent makes with the meridian\mdash ; estimated positive when on the opposite side of the meridian to Consider the flow between the two surfaces and across the " " parallel of latitude\ldquo ; through P. The total flow must be the same for every parallel .
The area through which the flow takes place is , where is the distance of from the polar axis .
Hence is constant over the surface .
It must therefore be of the form .
So far is only defined as the parameter which determines the particular lrface .
Choose the parameter so that is then analogous to the -function in the simple case .
It acts in fact as the stream-function for the component of velocity .
Similar reasoning leads to the conclusion that is also of the form , say .
Hence . . . . . .
( 1 ) . . . . .
( 2 ) .
We started with the supposition that the stream-lines and vortex-lines must lie on the same surfaces other words , there must be no } rotation perpen- dicular to .
This may be expressed in other words by the statement that the circulation round any circuit drawn wholly on must vanish .
Take for this circuit any two parallels of latitude .
The condition gives that the flow along one must equal the flow along the other .
In other words , the flow round a parallel of latitude be the same for all parallels on the same surface .
Hence . . . . .
( 3 ) where is a function of Equations 1 , 2 , 3 give conditions which any motion possible between any two given surfaces and must satisfy .
In our case , however , the motions in the separate shells must fit together .
We may regard the vortex-filaments as due to the velocities in two successive shells , or as due to the different velocities on the inner and outer surfaces of the same shell\mdash ; the velocities on the inner surface of one being the same as on the outer of the next succeeding shell .
If now be any component of a filament , and the area perpendicular to , the value of is given by half the circulation round .
Apply this to the two componeuts along a meridian and along a parallel of latitude .
As a circuit for take two parallels one on and the other on .
The flow along the first is and along the latter Hence But by ( 3 ) , Hence ( 4 ) .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
Comparing with ( 2 ) it follows that or We may regard then Eq. ( 2 ) as replaced by ( 4 ) , which it as the greater does the less .
For the circuit for take a small circuit formed by a small arc of a meridian , the normals ( dn ) at and the portion of the meridian arc on cut off by these normals .
The flow along the normals is zero .
Along it is ; along it is The area of the cross-section of is Heuce \mdash ; But by ( 1 ) , ; therefore .
Since will give any component of velocity in the in the same way as the ordinary stream-function .
4 .
It will often be found advantageous to express in terms of curvilinear co-ordinates .
Denote these by .
Displacements perpendicular to the will be denoted by , and to by , to be estimated positive in the directions in which respectively increase .
The differential equation satisfied by is found by expressing the circulation round a small area bounded by the curves .
Let denote the rotation at a point of the area .
We shall regard this as positive when it goose clockwise .
The circulation is then area velocities along ( see fig. 2 ) are respectively The lows :long them are therefore ( clockwise ) and Hence the total flow round PQQ'P ' is \mdash ; \mdash ; or But this is .
Hence ( 5 ) .
In many cases , giving , and the equation simplifies to The following cases will be required:\mdash ; Cylindrical ordinates .
, and or ( 6 ) .
SSOR W. M. HICKS ON MOTION .
( 2 ) Polm Co-ordinates .
, and or ( 7 ) .
( 3 ) Spheroids .
Prolate .
Here whence cosb The surfaces are respectively the ellipses and hyperbolas and increases from at the origin to at an infinite distance ; increases from \mdash ; at points on the negative part of the of , through for points on the plane to at points on the positive part of the axis of Again Hence the differential equation is writing , ( 8 ) .
Oblate .
Here , and the differential equation is ( 9 ) .
VOL. CXCIL\mdash ; A. ( 4 ) Toroidal .\mdash ; Hsre [ ' Phil. III .
, p. 614 ] whence ( 10 ) .
5 .
Equations 1 , 3 , 4 , or 6 give the conditions for a possible motion .
It is open to us to choose arbitrarily .
In this case the equations .
The motion is instantaneously possible , but in general it at once proceed to change the configuration\mdash ; the motion will not be steady .
The application of this theory to values of which are already known ( HILL'S vortex for example ) leads to interesting results , but the absence of steadiness robs the theory of importance .
If we impose the condition of steady motion , it is no longer open to us to choose at will .
Let us then impose this condition .
The condition that the tion shall be steady involves : \mdash ; ( 1 ) must be a surface containing both vortex-lines and stream-lines .
This is already the case .
( 2 ) must be constant over the surface .
It must therefore be of the form , where is a function of .
Hence ( 11 ) .
Expanding this , and substituting from 1 , 3 , 4 , 7 , or ( 12 ) , where and are arbitrary functions of .
Choosing these , equation 12 will give the type of We proceed to apply these general theorems to certain special cases of spherical aggregates .
In order to exeml)lify the method employed we will take first the case in which there is no secondary spin , the type in which HILL'S spberical vortex is the simplest case .
* For lother proof of this cquation , due to one of the referees , see end of prescllt paper .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON MOTION .
Section regates with Secondary mith Unifor Vorticity .
6 .
We begin with the spherical aggregate , the simplest type of which is the HILL'S vortex .
The equation for is that given by equation 7 , in which is put where is uniform and .
It is in which is measured from the pole to the equator .
A particular sohltion of this In put , being a function of only .
Then The integral of this is where is a zonal harmonic of degree Hence the general solution of the equation in is Since the of are easily found , ) for or .
It is easily found from the direct equation in this case that .
The following results re easily deduced :\mdash ; Consider now first the case of a homogeneous spherical aggregate .
In this case the functions apply only to the space outside , and to the space inside .
Let denote the value of inside and outside .
Hence \ldquo ; Let denote the radius of the sphere .
Along the boundary of the sphere and also .
Expressing in terms of and The term in may be supposed merged in , and may therefore be treated as absent .
The conditions when give when ?
when and for Hence and The velocity along the normal to the aggregate is Hence the aggregate moves forward through the surrounding fluid with a velocity Referred to the aggregate at rest therefore The cyclic constant ( ) is the circulation taken round a meridian section , up the polar axis and down outside .
It is the sum of the circulation round the elementary areas of which the section is composed .
Hence SSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
( elementary circulations ) volume of aggregate Thus are HILL'S results obtained by direct methods .
7 .
Heterogeneous Aggregates.\mdash ; We may , however , superpose on an aggregate such as the foregoing other spherical layers of different VOl.ticities .
It be advisable to consider first the case where there is one such layer of vorticity determined by ( say ) .
We may call them dyads .
In this outer portion both terms in and can appear .
Let denote the stream functions for each part and for the surrounding fluid .
Then Let denote the radii of the two spherical surfaces , and apply the same conditions as before the two surfaces .
Again all the co-efficients vanish except for , and there results and The first two give at once the last two ; also Whence .
\mdash ; The normal velocity at the er boundary is ( when ) The outer boundary therefore progresses unchanged with velocity of translation Bring the outer boundary to rest by impressing on every part of the fluid a velocity equal and opposite to this , i.e. , to the stream-functions a term The relative motions are then glven by If , however , the motion is to be steady , the inner sphere must now be at rest , that is when .
We get , therefore , the following necessary relation between This may be itten Both the expressions in the brackets are positive , hence must be negative or the rotations in opposite directions in the two portions .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON MOTION .
Denote the cyclic constants of the inner and outer portions by .
As before , we see that they are respectively That is Substituting for in terms of The result is that a double aggregate is possible .
If , however , the size is given the ratio of the vorticities must have a special value , and vice .
In terms of the radii it may be shown that Three cases specially invite attention , ( 1 ) equal volumes , ( 2 ) both parts made of similar matter , i.e. , vorticities , and ( 3 ) equal cyclic constants .
Case i.\mdash ; Here nearly .
Case ii.\mdash ; k ' Put , we get This has three negative roots ; the positive one is or nearly .
Case iii .
or whence \mdash ; Equal circulations are therefore impossible .
8 .
on now to the xtion of any number of layers , let the 1 adii of the spherical boundaries from the inside outwards be denoted by ; the vorticities by . .
, and the -functions by and .
Then Applying the conditions of continuity at the boundary , there results with Adding with Similarly with Clearly the 's evolve from the outside , the 's from inside .
Write Then with with Hence Thus the are completely determined .
For steadiness of motion it is necessary that the translatory velocity of the different boundaries be the same .
This is obtained if the velocities of the inner and outer boundaries of each layer are equal .
Hence we get equations to n or , or PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
If the volumes of all the layers are equal , and Hence or Now .
Hence or subtracting two consecutive equations Thus the can be determined in order from the inside .
The peculiarity is that the process stop at any .
That is that if we have two poly-ads , with and layers respectively then the first layers in the first will be precisely similar to those in the second .
The values are \mdash ; and when is large As another example , take the case where the layers are formed of the same material , i.e. , the vorticities alternately equal and opposite .
Then \mdash ; but Let denote the ratio These values are then given by and may be found in succession .
The equations are , if denote 1 \mdash ; . . .
VOL. CXCII.\mdash ; A. In which it is clear that If , the equation is , the positive root of is .
In this case If ever , is nearly ( say ) , is nearly .
Then , regarding and of same order Hence , continual]y to and the value of , bo 1 as increases .
first seven values are The succeeding values will be given to four figures by the foregoing velocities of translation of the series ggregates are Monad Dyad Triad 4-ad 5-ad \amp ; c. PROFESSO W. M. HICKS ON MOTION .
( J. The form of the stream lines for a monad aggregate have been delineated by HILL .
general form of the stream lines for a poly-ad is here is no special reason for drawing them accurately present .
It will be well , however , to determine the position of the , for the particular case of homogeneous poly-ads , that is in which The condition at an equatorial axis is that when in which denotes the stream-function referred to the boundary at rest .
Applying this to the p-th layer in an n-ad , \mdash ; The equation for the axis is therefore This may be written Now , th.erefore and For a monad ' for a dyad Beyond dyads , nearly Then Now is The distance from the inner layer is therefore From the outer it is But ( p. 50 ) therefore Ratio or the equatorial axis , with increasing number of layers , tends to bisect the distance between the two boundaries of the layer .
10 .
Energy.\mdash ; The energy within any region is the integral extending within the boundary of the region .
By the ordinary method this is reduced to the form Since If the boundary be infinite and the fluid at rest then the first integral is zero , and The integral extending only to spaces which contain rotational motion .
If the of uniform vorticity , and In the cases here considered is of the form , and .
In the case of a poly-ad is different for the various layers , and SSOR W. M. HICKS ON MOTION .
We work out the case for a dyad aggregate , in which .
and If the two parts had been single monads their combined energy ( when far apart ) would have been The energy when combined is therefore greater than when they are separate .
11 .
It may not be out of place to make a short digression here as to the relation of a HILL'S vortex to the vortex rings which have been investigated in previous parts of these researches .
As is known the translation velocity of an ordinary ring decreases as the energy increases , and are given in a former whereby those quantities can be calculated for comparatively thick rings up to with siderable accuracy , and possibly further .
Here is the radius of the equatorial axis and the mean radius of the section of the ring .
Refer all measurements to the spherical form , and let denote its radius , its velocity of translation , and its energy .
Take now a ring of the same volume and circulation as the sphere , and let V and denote its translation velocity and energy .
We get the following value of for different apertures .
* ' ' Researches in the Theory of Vortex Rings Part II .
, p. 757 , ' Phil. Trans 1885 , Part II .
These numbers are grnphically epresented in , Plate 1 , where the abscissae give and the es .
Dotted lines refer to points where calculation cannot be applied .
On the figure are placed outlines of the aggregates drawn to scale .
Two tbings at once strike the eye .
First , that the spherical aggregate evidently lies on the E.V curve of the rings , belongs , in fact , to the same family ; and , secondly , that the variation of V with the energy is small over a very large range .
The shape and nature of the aggregate when the energy is nearly that of the spherical form have not yet been determined .
It is probable that the energy diminishes the form lengthens along the polar axis , until when the energy is very small it becomes a long , thin , cylindrical ggregate .
When this is so long that the end portions form only a small of the whole , it is possible to obtain an approximation to the for when very long he fluid outside will be very nearly at rest ( as in case of force outside a long helix ) .
The velocity of propagation will be the velocity at the axis .
Let be the radius of the cylinder , its length .
Again , if V denote the velocity along the axis , the velocity outside is zero , and the variation at the ends a small part of the whole .
Hence the circulation is given by Again let denote the velocity at a distance from the axis .
Take a small rectangular circuit , parallel to the axis , one inside distant from the axis , the other outside .
The circulation round this is by .
But it is also the value taken over the area of the rectangle .
Therefore ( volume ) ; therefore Energy in dr .
PROFESSOR .
M. HICKS ON MOTION .
It is thus the same as a mass of one-third its own mass moving with its velocity of translation .
Now therefore therefore This only holds , however , wheD V is small .
It is a small part of a parabola in the figure touching the axis of 12 .
Spheroidal , Aggregates.\mdash ; As is known from HILL'S investigntions , the spheroid , although an instantaneously possible form , is not steady .
It proceeds at once to change its shape into a non-spheroidal one .
It seems , however , advisable to the general outline of the method as adopted in this paper and as applied to the spheroids , in order t ) investigate whether by a second or third layer it may be possible to obtain a steady form .
The functions involved and the differential equation for are given in Eqs. 8 , 9 .
Writing for and for , the differential equation in is , since As in the former case , a particular integral is It remains to integrate This can be satisfied by writing where X and are functions respectively of and only , and being any constant .
These equations are PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
As will be seen later must be of the form , being any integer .
a moment , the equation in becomes whence Therefore To determine X , we proceed by the same analogy to put Then If then denote a zonal harmonic with imaginary argument of order the right hand of the above vanishes , and the value of X is a solution .
That is Now we have Hence Tbis set of solutions gives values finite and continuous at all points inside a given ellipse of the family , but infinitely large at an infinite distance .
Let denote the second of the equation .
Then , in the usual way , it may be shown that PhOFESSOR .
HICKS ON IOI'ION .
whence it is easy to prove that .
With these values the particular integral is .
terms in be supposed merged in the general solution .
may then write From these it is easy to deduce the values of , etc. , for single free aggregate , by applying the conditions and at the surface .
It is unnecessary to do this , as from HILL'S work we know that it is not steady .
The case of motion inside a rigid spheroidal boundary is also given by The solution follows immediately by impressing the condition when Hence where thick type denotes values at the surface , and which easily reduces to The total circulation is The equatorial axis is given by , when That is by the equation * ' Phil. Trans. ' Part II .
, 1884 , p. 403 .
VOL. CXCII.\mdash ; A. I The equatorial axis therefore lies in the equatorial section in a similar position to that for a sphere .
13 .
Dyad Spheroids.\mdash ; Poly-ad spheroids clearly occur in the same wa .
as for spheres ; they are , however , also unsteady .
It will be sufficient merely to indicate the steps of the proof .
Let and denote the two boundaries .
will involve terms in and .
By applying the surface conditions in the same way as for the spheres to both sets of terms independently , the coefficients are determined , whilst the condition that the internal interface has the translational velocity as the outer gives for an equation which and satisfy .
This is where letters refer to values at the outer and inner boundaries same applied to the Z. , terms give where existence of -moving spheroids depends on the possibility of finding values of to satisfy these two equations .
It is easy to show that .
Hence , adding 6 times the equation to the second , there results an equation free of logarithmic terms and which can easily be reduced to , the factor divides out , and the equation may be put in the form Now .
Hence is positive .
The expression on the left is therefore always positive and no suitable values of satisfy the equation .
A prolate spheroidal dyad is therefore not steady .
The condition for the oblate spheroid can be ound by writing for C. It can be shown that this also has no suitable root .
PROFESSOR V ' .
M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
.\mdash ; Gyrostatic Aggregates .
14 .
Passing on now to the consideration of the more general where a condary spin exists , the simplest case is that in which in equation ( 12 ) both and are uniform .
Suppose , or .
The differential equation in is now particular integral of which is nd the general integral is the same as that considered in the preyious section , viz. : It will however not be found possible to satisfy the boundary ditions unless the erm be introduced .
This term , as well as that in , makes the motion liscontinuous at the polar axis .
However , we will suppose for the moment this )ortion of space excluded , and see later if it is possible to do so .
The streamunctions are then , \mdash ; inside id can be replaced as before by Applying the conditions and , when it is to deduce that \mdash ; The ocity normal to the sphere is That is , the sphere progresses bodily with a velocity given by I Impress \mdash ; V on every point , that is , deduct .
Then the streamreferred to the boundary is At the outer boundary trace the stream-line , it is seen that it consists of circle ?
the curve This passes through the poles and touches the circle there .
Hence the space between this and the outer boundary does not contain the polar The mot , ion iven by is therefore finite and continuous there .
The space inside it must be excluded as giving a motion not possible\mdash ; or rather , a motion due to sources and sinks on the polar axis .
We shall suppose it excluded by replacing ) fluid by a solid nucleus of the shape required .
The radius of an equatorial axis is given by when , or by In this write and .
Then . . . . .
( 13 ) .
This has one root between and 1 .
The other roots must either be both imaginary , or , if real , one at least must be negative , since the coefficient of is zero .
As , further , and both make the expression on the left of the same sign , both these roots must be negative .
Hence there is one and only one root between and ] .
That is , here is only one equatorial axis .
Tn the special case , the radius of the equatorial axis is For this curv The curves are drawn in fig. 1 , Plate 2 , for values of The value at the equatorial axis is 397 .
The value is drawn to show how the discontinuity enters .
The velocity along a parallel of latitude is given by the equation .
This is zero at the surface and on the spindle-shaped nucleus , and increases to a maximum at equatorial axis .
The secondary constant is the circulation PROFESSOR W. M. ON VORTEX MOTION .
round the two circles ( 1 ) the equator of the sphere , and ) the equatorial axis .
lt is therefore given by , or where .
is the root of equation ( 13 ) .
On account of the artificial nature of the internal nucleus the further discussion of case is scarcely called for .
We pass on , therefore , to the more important case\mdash ; the next simplest one\mdash ; in which is uniform , ut the second terms varies as .\mdash ; Here also varies as Write where is a length , which may be taken to be the radius of the sphere , and is a pure number .
Also write where V is a velocity .
the equation in is A particular integral is \mdash ; and the general integral depends on In this put where is the function of already discussed ( S6 ) and is a function of only .
Then is therefore a BESSEL'S function of order , which can , as is known , be expressed in finite form involving circular functions .
In what immediately follows , the values of will alone be equired .
The equation is , writing for , and dropping the subscript 2 , If and denote the two integrals or , in more general terms , yhere C and are arbitrary constants .
and may be expressed in infinite convergent series .
Thus ( 14 ) ( 15 ) , also , .
and Clearly the functions refer only to space excluding infinity ; to space the origin .
16 .
For the problem in question the stream-functions are , therefore , inside , outside , Applying the surface conditions that when , and , it follows that when when where and mean the values of and when , that is SSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
the two equations for give .
The aggregate moves through the fluid with a velocity of translation given by .
By its formation the above value of satisfies all the equations of condition except that in those equations is the velocity-function referred to fixed axes .
Here it is not\mdash ; it represents the motion refel.red to the instantaneous position of the sphere .
It is , therefore , not directly applicable unless the velocity of translation given by it vanishes , that is , unless be a root of this equation we get a sbeady motion of a vortex aggregate , at rest in the surrounding fluid .
If we , however , take the above general function , it gives a velocity of translation ( 17 ) .
Bring the aggregate to rest by impressing a velocity\mdash ; U on the whole fluid\mdash ; that is , add to the stream-functiou a term We get a new value of , referred to axes remaining fixed , viz. , Take this value of , and put .
Then equations become give Now substitute in .
The result is that so that ) motion given by the new is a steady one .
There exist , therefore , systems travelling through the fluid with velocities given by ( 17 ) and with a steady motion .
The system given by is contained as a special case .
17 .
There are two circulations to be considered .
That along a circuit up the polar axis and down over the surface of the sphere , and that due to the motion round the polar axis .
Call them respectively the primary and secondary cyclic constants , and denote them by In finding this the term may be omitted as giving no circulation , and we may take where Now therefore , Also , is of the order when is small , therefore , and If we replace V as a constant of the motion by PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
Before discussing the value of it will be well to get some general idea of the nature of the motions .
One of the most striking peculiarities of these aggregates is t , he quasi-periodicity of type as increases from to infinity .
The best way to illustrate this is to use a graphical construction .
Now In fig. 2 , Plate 1 , the curve is drawn .
corresponds to a given type of aggregate .
A parabola is drawn with vertex at and passing through Represent any abscissa to the left of ( or of ) by .
Then the differences of ordinates between the curve and the parabola up to represent .
It is clear from the figure that , in the position this function never vanishes for .
In the second position , , however , the parabola intersects the curve at another point .
For this point ( suppose ) vanishes for all values of , and the corl.esponding current sheet is a sphere internal to the boundary .
The aggregate consists of two portions with independent motions .
The primary circulations are in opposite directions , and there will be two equatorial axes .
So , as moves on along the curve , i. e. , as increases , we get families of aggregates with three , foul , \amp ; c. , layers , and a corresponding number of equatorial axes .
We shall denote any transition value of by .
Each layer will have its own secondary circulation , given by the circulation round the double circuit formed by its equatorial axis , and an equator on boundary .
Now the secondary spin velocity is given by And since on the boundary , it follows that , along the equatorial axis only , where is the value of at the nth equatorial axis , or where and .
VOL. CXCII .
\mdash ; A. 18 .
The moment of angular momentum is where denotes the volume of the aggregate .
19 .
The internal energy of the aggregate , supposed without translation is where and Si Hence , as in the Now along the boundary .
Also A therefore E.- SSOR W. M. HtCKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
or ( 19 ) .
The energy due to translation is that due to the bodily translation of the sphere the same .
The velocity of translation is Hence this part of the energy is Therefore total energy is \mdash ; ( 20 ) .
A verification is afforded by putting ( HILL'S vortex ) .
Then Large bracket which correct .
The preceding formulae refer to the whole aggregate .
When , however , the lowest , there are more than one component , and it will be well to give the requisite formulae for each of these separately .
Denote by , where is the radius of the th interface from the centre .
Also for shortness let denote the function .
Then . . . . .
( 21 ) .
( 22 ) , denoting the value of at the equatorial axis .
But Hence ( 23 ) .
20 .
The velocity of translation is given by To see how this varies with the parameter refer to the graphical construction in fig. 2 , Plate 1 .
The curve and the intersect in P. If 'oe point on the curve ( fig. 3 ) , and on the parabola with the same abscissa near , and PN be the perpendicular on AB , are the angles which the tangents to the curve and the parabola at make with the axis of , and A denotes the area of the curve OAPMO .
The factor is ways finite , except for , and positive .
It is then easy to see in general how the velocity alters as the parameter increases .
As ( fig. 2 , Plate 1 ) , vels along the curve , is positive .
Leaving out of sight for the present its value for small , it later on diminishes to when reaches a PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
certain point where the parabola touches the curve .
It then changes sign and remains negative until reaches another point where the parabola again touches the curve , and so on .
We shall call the values of corresponding to the points the values , and denote them in order by , . .
) .
Thus for values of the aggregate moves in the direction of the rotational flow up the axis .
At the aggregate is at rest , the velocity of the fluid on the mdary is zero ; as increases beyond this , the aggregate takes on another layer with primary rotation in the opposite direction , and it moves in the fluid in a direction opposed to the rotational motion of the innermost layer .
It regredes relatively to this .
The velocity at first increases and then diminishes until reaches the second point , when the corresponding aggregate is at rest in the and so on .
The periodic nature of the aggregates is thus evident .
We get for example a whole periodic family of aggregates whose peculiar property is thab they remain at rest in the fluid .
The members of the family differ , amongst other things , in the number of independent layers each possesses .
So we get another family formed by values of , corresponding to points where the -curve cuts the axis of .
We will call values of , corresponding to these the parameters , and denote the orders in the same way as for the parameters .
As we shall see shortly , the distinguishing property of this family is in each of them the vortex lines and the stream lines coincide .
For small values of A it is preferable to express the value of in terms of the lowest powers of It is easy to show that . .
whence .
This gives for the value of already known for HILL'S vortex .
The curve , where is the velocity of the non-gyrostatic aggregate of same cyclic constant and volume , is drawn in fig. 3 , Plate 1 , up to .
The periodic quality is evident .
21 .
The directions of the lines of flow and of the vortex lines are given by ( 24 ) , Hence ( 25 ) , also Equation ( 25 ) shows that when , i.e. , for the parameters , the stream lines and vortex lines coincide .
( It is to be remembered that we have supposed in the foregoing that and lie on opposite sides of meridian lines , and therefore means that they lie on the same side and coincide .
) I. From up to and .
Hence between these limits , the stream lines and vortex line are on the same side of the meridians , and , i.e. , the stream lines lie between the vortex lines and meridians .
At they coincide .
II .
Between and , but .
For any given changes from to \mdash ; as passes through the value .
For this value of , or .
Thus , for an aggregate whose parameter lies between the first and roots , the vortex lines lie between the stream lines and the meridians for all points at a less distance from the centre than .
At this distance , or the vortex lines coincide with the meridian planes , and beyond this distance up to the boundary the vortex lines and stream lines are on opposite sides of the meridians .
For values of between the first and second parameters we have to deal with two layers .
In the outer is negative , whilst is negative between and positive between and .
Referring to fig. 2 , Plate 1 , let the point where the parabola cuts the curve be given by , corresponding in the aggregate to a distance from the centre or .
It is clear that and are of the same sign .
Hence , if lies between and ( corresponding to between and ) , lies between and , whereas if lies between and lies ween and , taking closer limits still , between and .
We find , therefore , the following results .
III .
between and .
In the inner spherical nucleus the vortex lines lie on .
the same side of the stream lines as the meridians\mdash ; they are , in fact , exactly similar to the second category .
At the boundary between the central nucleus and the outer layer , the stream lines coincide with the meridians .
In the outer layer the stream lines lie on the other side of the meridian , with the vortex lines beyond .
When coincides with or is the second parameter the stream lines coincide with the vortex lines again , but on the opposite side of the meridians .
IV .
For between and , we get still two layers , the boundary being given SSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
by ( say ) at , where and are both positive .
is positive between and and negative between and 1 .
In the inner spherical nucleus the stream lines lie between the vortex lines and the meridians ( similar to the category ) .
At the interface the stream-lines coincide with the meridian .
In the outer layer the stream lines and vortex lines lie on opposite sides of the meridian for points whose tance from , centre are less than , or greater than .
For points at a distance and , the vortex lines coincide with the meridians , and between them the two lines lie on the same side of the meridian .
In the same way the behaviour for aggregates whose parameter is greater than , may be determined .
The periodic nature of the aggregate is again very clearly seen .
It is perhaps easier to describe the nature of the changes above indicated by supposing our eyes placed in a prolongation of the polar axis .
Call the vortex lines blue lines and the.stream lines red lines , and suppose for small that the stream or red lines lie on the right of the meridians .
For , or HILL'S vortex , the red lines lie along meridians and the blue lines perpendicular to these , along parallels of latitude .
As increases the red and blue lines swing round towards each other , the reds to the right and the blues to the left , and this goes on with increasing values of up to , when they coincide .
Beyond and up to the red and blue lines interchange their relative positions .
In any given aggregate the blue lines move more and more towards meridians as we pass from the centre outwards .
At a distance ) from the centre the blue lines all coincide with the meridians , both red and blue lines are swinging roumd to the left .
Beyond the distance the blue lines cross to the left meridians and the red lines cIose up towards the meridians until at the surface of the aggregate they coincide with them .
Between and we have doublets .
The gregates lying between and and between and are however essentially different .
In the first set in the central nucleus the blue lines lie to the left of the red , and both to the right of the meridi.ans for points near the centre .
As we pass outwards from the centre they swing round to the left , the blue lines swing past the meridians whilst at the of the nucleus the red lines just reach it .
Beyond , in the outer layer as we pass out , the blue and red swing further to the left , and later at least the red swing back again towards the meridian , coinciding with it at the surface .
When red and blue coincide everywhere .
They lie to the right in the inner nucleus and to the left in the outer layer .
Between and we get aggregates in which red and blue lives again change sides .
In the inner nucleus both lie to the right of the meridian , blue furthest out .
They close up to the meridian as we pass out from the centre to the nucleus surface .
In the outer layer the red lines swing further to the left and back again , the blue lines follow after in the same way , crossing the meridian twice ; once in each direction .
Beyond we get triplets .
In general , between and the blue lines lie to the right of the red or the opposite according as is even or odd .
They coincide for the parametel .
Also , if is even , both lie to the right of the meridian for the inner nucleus , the reds to the left for the second layer , to the right for the third , and so on .
Whilst the opposite takes place if is odd .
The forms of the spirals may be obtained by finding the polar equations to their projections on the equatorial plane .
Let be the polar co-ordinates of a point on the projection of a flow ; of a vortex line lying on a given sheet .
Then where is an element of a meridian curve .
Hence Provided is not perpendicular to , i.e. , on the outer boundary , but then and where corresponds to the inner circle of the two in which the current sheet cuts the equatorial plane .
The total angular pitch of the spiral is where are the two roots of ( 26 ) , , say .
The above may also be written ( 27 ) .
Equation ( 26 ) enables us easily to determine the form graphically when the surfaces are drawn .
So ( 28 ) , the case of a spherical boundary being excepted as before .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
For the outside stream-lines the pitch is For values of , lying beyonci there are several ]ayers in which are distinct .
If .
denote the values of corresponding to the interfaces of the layers , the pitches of the stream-lines on those surfaces as we pass outwards are , \amp ; c. We have seen that on these surfaces the stream-lines coincide with the meridian .
These parts therefore produce no part of the pitch .
The twist must be supposed as taking place in the part ) of the stream-line along the polar axes .
It is easy to see that this is so by considering current sheets near the interfaces .
We may therefore regard the physical meaning of to be the criterion of the total extern al pitch of the stream-lines .
We will return to the consideration of the pitch , and the shape of these lines later .
The total angular pitch of a stream spiral on any stream sheet can be expressed in terms of the volume of the fluid in side that sheet .
For , if Integrate round the stream sm.face \mdash ; ( 29 ) , where denotes the volume inside 22 .
The discrirninatin properties of the and parameters make it importanc to determine their values .
The parameters are the roots of the equation , or The large roots are clearly nearly Put say .
Then VOL. CXCII .
\mdash ; A. Expanding this in powers of , it is easily proved by successive approximation that or ( 301 .
The first root is by numerical calculation The foregoing gives for this case For higher values the formula is correct to five places at least The three roots ( 31 ) .
The parameters are roots of the equation .
The large roots are clearly nearly say , where or Writing , and expanding in terms of it is easy to prove , as in the former case , that ( 32 ) .
PROFESSOR W. .
HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
There is no root corresponding to .
The first root is The formula gives for this root For it is exact to five places .
The first three roots are ( 33 ) .
23 .
Equatorial Axes.\mdash ; An equatorial axis is the line of particles which remains al rest .
It is given by the equation , when by The positions of the axes are , therefore , readily observed by means of the graphical construction in fig. 2 , Plate 1 .
They depend on the abscissae of points for which the tangents to the curve and the parabola are parallel .
For values of , the inclination of the parabola to the axis of is always small .
Hence the equatorial axes must always be near the crests ( or bottoms ) of the curve , i.e. , near values The equation for the axes becomes , if be put for ( 34 ) , in which the roots are required .
As the values of the secondary cyclic constants and other important properties depend on the position of the equatorial axes , it will be necessary to determine their values .
We shall do this ( 1 ) for the case of small , and ( 2 ) for the case of large .
As , however , the case of the values is special , we shall treat these separately .
In the case of values other than , say , e.g. , parameters , all the axes of any aggregate depend on the particular value .
In the case of , however , they of the particular .
In fact , the successive gregates may be built up by taking any one and putting outside of this a suitable vortex shell .
the values of the axes for the roots are the crests , and bottoms , of the curve , and so important for their own sakes .
Case of \mdash ; Here is also small .
If equation ( 34 ) be expanded in powers of and , there results Dividing by , this may be written whence be expressed in terms of by successive approximation .
To it will be found that ( 35 ) .
This gives the equatorial axis at When , this agrees with HILL'S vortex .
Case of \mdash ; The equation in for this case becomes \mdash ; is always nearly say , where is small .
Then Whence formula gives for the two iirst roots 2.75363 , The values obtained by numerical calculation are 2.74371 , PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON .
MOTION .
The roots beyond this are therefore given by the formula correct to five places .
adii of the axes .
Hence using the values of given in ( 31 ) , the hrst three are .
For of large.\mdash ; The number of equatorial axes depends on the order of the parameter next greater than .
If lie between and , there are such axes .
It seems then natural to refer the magnitude of 1 to .
Suppose then where the maximum value of X is about \mdash ; or we may write , and if both be allowed X will have a maximum of the order The equation in is in which the first roots are to be determined .
For small roots the parabola of fig. 3 is almost coincident with the axis of , and consequently the small roots are very nearly equal to the corresponding values for .
It will be best to obtain an expression the large roots and then see how far back it holds for the smaller roots .
Clearly is always near where is an integer Put say .
may be either - , it is of order of magnitude 1 at most .
SSOR W. .
HICKS ON MOTiON .
Since is ( it is of order ) , we geb Write The greatest value of is is of order , therefore at least of order Hence in the most unfavourable cases is .
The above tion can be written , ( 1st approx. ) :(2nd approx. ) ( 36 ) .
It will be convenient to put .
Then If is a root , and which agrees with the result already found .
24 .
The Spiral Forms taken by the Lines of Flow and Vortex .\mdash ; The equations determining these are given in S ( 21 ) .
Unfortunately , however , they are not integrable in finite forms .
We give a ) ] method for the stream-lines later .
At present it is proposed to determine ( 1 ) the forms of stream and vortex lines when is small , ( 2 ) the pitch of the spirals near the equatorial axes , and ( 3 ) the pitch of the same on the outer surface .
Let the stream surface , the streams and filaments on which we have to investigate , cut the equatorial plane in circles given by ?
and .
Then PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
where In determining the vortex we will to be measured in the direction as : that is , to the right of meridians as looked at the polar axis .
In this case or .
( 1 .
) Case of small .
also is of order .
Put Hence are the roots of the denominator equated to , viz. , of .
A first approximation is or ( say ) , where denotes the smaller root .
Let for a second approximation , where is of order Therefore , .
Since , also Hence the roots are and lenolniaor becomes .
here y 1 ] this put So that .
Then , where ) PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON MOTION .
At the equatorial axis , on the surface .
Thus increases from to 1 for the various current sheets in order from the axis to the surface .
The pitch of the helix on any sheet is Pitch E. At the surface this is , at the axis it is .
Since pitch at the axis is about 11 per cent. larger than on the surface when is small .
The COlTesponding quantity for the vortex filaments is given by .
By what has immediately gone before and .
Therefore where .
Thus . . .
( 38 ) .
At the equatorial axis for a half turn .
VOL. CXCII .
Thus the pitch at the equatorial axis is Therefore Pitch \mdash ; \mdash ; If , the pitch is , as it clearly ought to be , since all the vortex filaments then lie along parallels .
The Form of the Axis .
The meridian sections of a current sheet near an axis will evidently in general be elliptic .
To find it is therefore necessary to determine for an ellipse the value of The following general theorem enables us easily to do this .
Transfer the origin to any point in the equatorial plane , at a distance ; and the new polar co-ordinates of a point be , corresponding to let denote the Cartesian co-ordinates referred to .
Then For the spirals near the axis the point of interest is to determine the angular pitch .
Now early for a complete ellipse , whose axes are parallel and perpendicular to the equatorial plane , and whose centre is at PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
Further , if the axes are , respectively in the equatorial plane and perpendicular to it , where is the excentric angle of a point on it .
Hence , Therefore , ( for half-turn ) , or , angular pitch To apply this , it is necessary to determine the form of the current sheets near the axis .
Let the co-ordinates of the equatorial axis be The equation to a current sheet is constant , or , constant .
, and are nearly Denote by , and suppose it expressed in terms of co-ordinates .
fer to Then , where are sma Hence , if now denote the value at constant , and , for is given by this equation .
Denote by by Then \mdash ; since to 1st order , , since to 1st order , Hence constant .
The constant is nearly say ; then or the curve is the ellipse Hence the angular pitch Now .
The angular pitch of the stream-lines is therefore where Now is determined by ) , therefore Note for aggregates .
When the value of is ] large we substitute for from equation PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON MOTION .
where Therefore and the pitch is Now where and .
and say , denote by ; then 1 \mdash ; \mdash ; therefore For very large values of we may neglect powers of , and then pitch For the outside shell pitch Thus in the case of the aggregates the pitch of the outer layer is very small .
If we number the shells backward from the outside , we write for and the pitch is It is seen , therefore , that there are two series of shells in aggregates oflarge , one in which the pitches increase as we pass inwards , and an alternate series in which it decreases .
If lies between a and a parameter , the outer series belongs to the first category .
If lies between a and a value , the opposite is the case .
In other words , if the parametral point in fig. 2 , Plate 1 , lie above the line of abscissae , the outside layer has a very small pitch , and those of alternate shells increase as we to the centre .
If lie below the opposite is the case .
The vortex spirals are given by PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
Write Let be the value of at the axis , so that when For points near the axis , and where means the itive value of To the first order , Hence for the total pitch , Put or writing At the axis itself if if , if where the bounding , or interface between two shells .
This is the case where the transformation ( Eq. 26 ) fails .
Taking first the stream spirals On a spherical boundary this is zero , except for the aggregates , in which , however , there is no flow at all .
The other part of the stream surface is the portion up the polar axis .
Here and .
Therefore Twist on axis alone There is no twist on the spherical boundary .
Hence Angular pitch of stream spiral Next for the vortex spirals .
Here there are two portions as in the former case\mdash ; the polar axis , and the sphel.ical boundary .
Hence , supposing at present we are dealing with a singlet only Both these integrals become infinite at the poles .
We must therefore treat this part separately .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
in which are small , and in the third integral , are nearly 1 , respective]y .
Let .
Then near the ] the rectangular .ordinates of a point referred to the pole are connected by small constant ( say ) , say , -dx so that when each The third integral is The curve is given by Therefore Therefore Integral The second integral is and is nearly .
Therefore Second Integral and the second and third together VOL. CXCII .
The first integral is Now , where is finite for between and 1 and does not vanish .
Hence Int. finite quantity , Therefore finite .
is the distance from the pole of the point at which the stream sheet cuts a line joining the pole to a point on the equator .
The angular pitch is therefore infinite at the surface owin to the filaments parallel to the equator at points close to the pole .
25 .
Graphicat Methods.\mdash ; The graphical construction indicated in S 17 affords a very convenient method of obtaining a general qualitative view of the properties of these aggregates .
It serves ] for a rough quantitative one , and at least gives for many determinations the rough starting point which is always the most troublesome obstacle in numerical approximations .
It may be well , therefore , here , to collect and enlarge on what has gone before in this respect .
The first thing is to trace on a large scale the curve where is the abscissa .
This is very easily done , since is expressed in simple functions which are tabulated .
The curve is drawn for the first three undulations in fig. ( 2 ) , Plate ( 1 ) .
Now determines completely the of the aggregate ( except ; volume and its intensity ) .
The point on the curve , corresponding to , we will call the parapoint .
Draw through a parabola touching the axis at the origin .
For all points beyond the first few undulations a circle will suffice , or the curve drawn by a thin bent to touch the axis at and to pass through P. If denote will correspond to a point on the curve between and P. If denote the copresponding points on the curve and the parabola , the value of in the aggregate the point is given by ( note will be negative ) .
The velocity of propaoationo will depend on the angle at which the parabola and curve intersect at ( see fig. 3 , S 20 ) .
If they touch , the angle is zero , and the translation velocity zero , In fact the parameters of the points are the values .
We will call PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
them the points .
They are easily by fixing a lath at and bending it to touch successive loops of the curve .
It is easy to do this correct to two decimal places , when numerical calculation will carry it to any degree of approximation desired .
The points where the curve cuts the axis of correspond to the parameters .
We will call them the points .
Denote the points where the parabola through cuts the curve again by the letters .
These points give the sizes of the shells into which the aggregate divides .
If ON be the abscissa of any such point , , and gives the radius of the corresponding intel f between two shells .
It is evidenb at once from the construction that the thicknesses of the shells , as we pass in or out , are alternately greater and less \mdash ; that there are two categories , in on of which the thickness increases as we pass in , and an alternate series in which it decreases .
There will be , however , some ularity in the two inner components .
The position of the equatorial axes is derermined by those abscissae , for which the tangents to the curve and the parabola are parallel .
They are easily recognized by the eye , and thus a starting point for calculation is readily obtained .
The difference of ordinates of these points is proportional to the secondary circulations of the corresponding shells .
In fact , when mu]tiplied by , the products give the values of those constants .
It is therefore clear from the figure that these circulations in opposite directions alternately , and that we get two alternate series of ascending and descending values .
The function denotes the area between the curve and the axis of up to the point .
It is clear , therefore , that it has its maximum values at the odd points , and its minimum at the even ones .
The tracing of the current sheets is particularly easy from the fact that they are given by functions of the form Let , and let and denote values at the equatorial axis numerical maximum ) .
Then On squared paper , draw a series of circles , radii sub-multiples of , say at intervals of or , also the circle .
This last circle has the property that all the current sheets cut it at right angles .
Let us trace first one sheet say .
We do this by tabulating the values of for values of , corresponding to the series of circles drawn .
Now mark on the bounding circle points whose .
those tabulated values ( which is done at once on the squared paper ) .
Mark the points where the radii vectores to these points cut the corresponding circles .
Join these points by a inuous curve , and the shape of the particular curve is obtained ; call it tho sheet .
This first curve should be obtained with care and as much accuracy as possible .
We may now proceed to draw from this as many of the other sheets as we please .
Suppose we want to draw the curve .
We set a pair of proportional compasses ( or any similar method ) to the ratio .
Suppose the cuts any particular circle at set the short legs of the compasses to its abscissa Turn it round and find the point on the circle whose abscissa is the new value .
Proceed thus with the other circles and the sheet is rapidly traced .
Although this may appear cumbrous in stating , it very expeditious in practice , and with a moderate amount of care very accurate .
Having traced the curves , we may now easily trace the proj ections of the stream lines , for these are given by ( see fig. 4 ) .
Fig. 4 .
26 .
It will be interesting to go into further details for a few cases , and for this purpose we take the first two aggregates of the and families .
The distinguishing feature of the types , is that the aggregates are at rest in the surroundittg fluid .
The distinguishing feature of the types is that the vortex and stream lines are coincident .
aggregates .
Here ' where is the energy of a Hill 's of equal volume and circulation .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
The first parameter is The equatorial axis has a radius Angular pitch of stream llines at surface at axis \ldquo ; , , , , vortex lines at axis The forms of the current sheets are drawn in fig. 2 , Plate .
The projections of the stream lines in , Plate 2 .
These latter were determined by the method described above .
The second parameter is The axes are given by and or and Radius of internal nucleus Total angular pitch of stream lines outside inside nucleus , , outer shell \ldquo ; \ldquo ; Angular pitch of stream lines at 1st axis 2nd axis vortex lines at 1st axis \ldquo ; 2nd axis , , The aggregates .
Here PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORThX MOTION .
where is the velocity of translation of a HILL'S aggregate of the same volume and circulation .
The stream pitch of these aggregates at the axis takes a very simple form , viz. , The first root is The equatorial axis has a radius gular pitch of stream lines at surface axis , , The forms for the stream sheets are ) in fig. 4 , Plate 2 .
It is to be noticed that there is a considerable difference between the angular pitches outside and on the axis , whereas in the aggregate they were very nearly the same .
The second parameter is The equatorial axes are given by and or , and Radius of internal nucleus Total angular pitch of outside on inside nucleus , outer shell , Angular pitch at inner axis outer , , , , In all the aggregates the expression for the angular pitch at an axis is PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON VORTEX MOTION .
Hence , when is large , the outer layers have their pitches at the axes about Fig. 5 , Plate 2 , shows the relative positions of the shells and axes for the and aggregates .
The thin lines belong to the , the dotted to the , A are the position of the equatorial axes .
those of the 27 .
In the preceding investigation we find doublets , triplets , \amp ; c. , naturally arising .
We may have also built-up systems consisting of monads , dyads , \amp ; c. , as in the cases developed in the previous section .
Each element of a poly-ad may consist again of singlets , doublets , \amp ; c. I do not propose now to develop this theory of multiple combination to any length , but merely to draw attention to it , and to determine the necessary conditions for the case of a dyad only .
Referring , the general solution of the differential equation contains not only functions , but also the functions , which are suitable only for space not containing the origin .
They are therefore suitable for any shell embracing an interior aggregate .
In the shell the functions will be of the form , or as it may be written .
It will be convenisnt to denote this by Let now the radius of the interior aggregate be , that of the exterior .
Let also denote the corresponding parameters .
Then we may write Inside . . . . .
( 39 ) , Shell \mdash ; ( 40 ) , Outside At the interface and , therefore Write .
This equation , when developed , gives ( 41 ) .
Moreover , the tangential velocities must be bhe same .
Hence , when ?
Therefore But Hence . . .
( 42 ) .
So , also , making when we get ( 43 ) .
Equation ( 41 ) determines ; Equation ( 42 ) gives a relation between , and We caIl 1herefore impress in general three further conditions .
For instance , ratio of volumes , ratio of primary circulations , and ratio of secondary circulations .
There is a natural connection of the various singlets which go to up an aggregate of the kind first discussed .
At any interface all the differential co-efficients are continuous .
In the polyad aggregates this is not so .
Differential co-eflicients beyond the first are not continuous .
Monads , \amp ; c. , which to form them , are artificially combined .
It is possible we may , on this basis , develop a theory of special aggregates which will unite with one another , or split up and be capable of uniting again in another manner .
Some progress has been made with such a theory , but before an attempt is made to carry such a theory out it will be necessary to investigate the stability of the various systems .
I hope soon to be able to take up this question .
[ May 6 , 1898.\mdash ; By the permission of Professor HILL , to whose careful reading of the MS .
I owe a great debt , I append an independent and very suggestive proof by him of the general theorem of gyrostatic vortices , based on the equations of motion .
] Take as co-ordinates Let be the pressure , the density , V the potential of the impressed forces .
Let be the velocity increasing be the velocity increasing be the velocity increasing Then the equations of motions are PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON IIOTION . ?
\fnof ; m It is desired to find a solution in which all the are independent of Therefore The last gives If therefore be the equation of a surface always containing the same particles of fluid , it is possible to take .
Also Let be current function ( which I distinguish hout from ) .
Therefore Substituting in it follows that Now make the further supposition that the surfaces const .
} alteration parallel to the axis of with velocity Therefore Therefore VOL. Hence we can take ' We have now .
Now , Therefore Hence Therefore Th erefore Therefore , .
PROFESSOR W. M. HICKS ON LX MOTION .
Tberefore and Therefore arbitrary function of Therefore arbitrary function of This arbitrary function of is in this paper always a constant .
The last equation , together with the following , are the important equations : , , .
Whenevel the conditions for the continuity of the and components of the velocity been satisfied at a separating surface whose equation is COllst .
then if the irrotational motion outside the surface have , we must when is equal to the parameter of separating surface , if there is to be slip there .
Therefore , when is equal to the meter of separating surface .
This is th in the Third Section of the ) ]

