The reading of a paper entitled , " Fifth letter on Voltaic Com ?
binations ; with some account of the effects of a large Constant Battery : addressed to Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fui ?
lerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution of Great Bri ?
tain .
By John Frederic Daniell , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Che ?
mistry in King 's College , London , " was resumed and concluded .
The author , pursuing the train of reasoning detailed in his preceding letters , enters into the further investigation of the variable conditions in a voltaic combination on which its efficiency depends ; and the determination of the proper proportions of its elements for the economical application of its power to useful purposes .
He finds that the action of the battery is by no means proportioned to the surfaces of the conducting hemispheres , but approximates to the simple ratio of their diameters ; and hence concludes that the circulating force of both simple and compound voltaic circuits increases with the surface of the conducting plates surrounding the active centres .
On these principles he constructed a constant battery consisting of seventy cells in a single series , which gave , between charcoal points separated to a distance of three-quarters of an inch , a flame of considerable volume , forming a continuous arch , and emitting radiant heat and light of the greatest intensity .
The latter , indeed , proved highly injurious to the eyes of the spectators , in which , although they were protected by grey glasses of double thickness , a state of very active infiammation was induced .
The whole of the face of the author became scorched and inflamed , as if it had been exposed for many hours to a bright midsummer 's sun .
The rays , when reflected from an imperfect parabolic metallic mir ?
ror in a lantern , and collected into a focus by a glass lens , readily burned a hole in a paper at a distance of many feet from their source .
The heat was quite intolerable to the hand held near the lantern .
Paper steeped in nitrate of silver and afterwards dried , was speedily turned brown by this light : and when a piece of fine wire-gauze was held before it , the pattern of the latter appeared in white lines , corresponding to the parts which it protected .
The phenomenon of the transfer of the charcoal from one electrode to the other , first observed by Dr. Hare , was abundantly apparent ; taking place from the zincode ( or positive pole , ) to the platinode , ( or negative pole ) .
The arch of flame between the electrodes was attracted or repelled by the poles of a magnet , according as the one or the other pole was held above or below it : and the repulsion was at times so great as to extinguish the flame .
When the flame was drawn from the pole of the magnet itself , included in the circuit , it rotated in a beautiful manner .
The heating power of this battery was so great as to fuse , with the utmost readiness , a bar of platinum , one-eighth of an inch square : and the most infusible metals , such as pure rhodium , iridium , tita ?
nium , the native alloy of iridium and osmium , and the native ore of platinum , placed in a cavity scooped out of hard carbon , freely melted in considerable quantities .
In conclusion , the author briefly describes the results of some experiments on the evolution of the mixed gases from water in a con ?
fined space , and consequently under high pressure ; with a view to ascertain , first , in what manner conduction would be carried on , supposing that the tube in which the electrodes were introduced were quite filled with the electrolyte , and there were no space for the accumulation of the gases ; secondly , whether , decomposition having been effected , recombination would take place at any given pressure ; and lastly , whether any reaction on the current-force of the battery would arise from the additional mechanical force which it would have to overcome .
These experiments he purposes pur ?
suing at some future time .

