XI .
' Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias.'-No .
XIII .
Derivatives of the Phenyl-Series .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1861 .
Some years ago I pointed out the existence of a peculiar class of bases , which are formed by the union of the aromatic ammonias with cyanogen .
Only two of these compounds , cyaniline and dicyanmelaniline , have as yet been more particularly examined .
I have of * See previous notice .
late had occasion to return to the study of these bodies , and to make an observation which I beg leave to communicate to the Royal Society .
The product which is formed by the union of one molecule of melaniline and one molecule of cyanogen , the compound known as dicyanomelaniline , C13h 13 3 +(C N)2 = C1,113 has feebly basic properties ; it dissolves in acids , and may be reprecipitated from these solutions without change .
It cannot , however , remain in contact with acids without being entirely altered .
After a few minutes the limpid solution becomes turbid , and deposits an indistinctly crystalline body containing C15 H11 N3 O , an ammoniacal salt remaining in solution , C1 H3 N , -+212 0+2HC1 = C15 H11 N 02+2H1I NC1 .
I have described this substance as melanoximide ; it may be considered as the primary oxalate of melaniline minus 2 molecules of water , which are capable of being assimilated again under the influence of the alkalies , oxalic acid and melaniline being reproduced .
Dicyanomelaniline , when submitted in alcoholic solution to the action of acids , undergoes a perfectly different change .
The boiling solution deposits on cooling splendid needles of an indifferent body of the composition C15 H31 N2 3 , an ammoniacal salt , also in this case , remaining in solution , C15 3,13 N , +3 H2 0+ 3H C1 -= C1 , Ho , N2 O3 3 I4 N Cl. Melanoximide , occupying by its composition a place between dicyanomelaniline and the new compound crystallized in needles , is likewise readily converted into the latter substance .
When boiled for a short time with a mixture of alcohol and hydrochloric acid , melanoximide furnishes a solution , which , on cooling , solidifies to a mass of beautiful needles , C15 H , , N3 02+H2 0 +H C1 = C15 H , N , 03+ 4N C1 .
The new compound is insoluble in water , but dissolves easily in alcohol and ether ; it is decomposed by boiling with potassa , giving rise to the formation of a carbonate and an oxalate with reproduction of phenylamine , C15 Hlo N203+ 4 KHO =K CO + K2 C2 0+ 2CH N. By this transformation the substance is characterized as the diatomic ammonia-derivative of phenylic alcohol , carbonic and oxalic acids , as carbonyl-oxalyl-diphhenyl-diamide , ( C 0 ) " ) C1 Hil N2 03 ( C2 02 ) " N , .
( C6 115)2 The new substance , both by composition and transformation , is closely allied to some compounds already known .
The action of oxidizing agents on alloxan , and even on uric acid , has furnished to Liebig and Wdhler the substance known as parabanic acid , ( CO ) ) C3 112 2 03 = ( 02 02 ) N2 , , 2j which , by the action of alkalies , is converted into a carbonate , an oxalate and ammonia .
At a later period Stenhouse and Rochleder , when examining the products of decomposition of caffeine under the influence respectively of nitric acid and of chlorine , observed a crystalline compound ( nitrotheine , cholestrophane ) , ( C O ) " c5 6 , N203 = ( 02 ) " I N , , ( C H)2 J which , under the influence of alkalies , yields methylamine* together with a carbonate and an oxalate , and may be viewed as dimethylated parabanic acid .
The compound which forms the subject of this Note , accordingly may be considered as diphenylated parabanic acid .
The transformations of dicyanomelaniline have suggested to me the study of the action of cyanogen upon some compounds having a composition somewhat analogous to that of melaniline .
Thus the action of cyanogen upon cyanamide might have yielded the compound ( CN ) 2N+ ( CN)2 =C H , which , by acids , should have been converted into parabanic acid , 0 , N , +3O21C 11 = 03 11H NO+21N Cl. C3H , N +3 H 0+2 HC1 132 32H4 N 3l .
Cyanamide is , in fact , capable of fixing the elements of cyanogen , being converted into a yellowish amorphous powder , which , when heated with acids , furnishes a beautiful crystalline compound , diffi cultly soluble in water , and deposited from the boiling solution on cooling in long slender needles .
Cyanamide being very prone to molecular changes , when submitted to the action of chemical agents , I have not yet been able to procure a sufficient quantity of these crystals for a more minute examination .
In their properties they entirely di fer from parabanic acid ,

