On Bacterium decalvans .
\#171 ; On Bacterium decalvans : an Organism associated with the Destruction of the Hair in Alopecia areata .
" By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1881 .
Read March 3 .
[ Plate 3 .
] Although Gruby , * in the year 1843 , announced that the affection of the hairy scalp known as alopecia areata ( area celsi ) is caused by a fungus , the parasitic theory of the disease has met with comparatively little support .
If the patients on whom Gruby made his observations really suffered from this disease and not from ringworm , which in some of its forms is apt to be mistaken for it , this uncertainty is very remarkable .
The fungus , if it exists , should not be difficult of observation , since it is described in his paper as consisting of a sheath of mycelium and spores which accompanies the hair to a distance of 1\#151 ; 3 minims , from the skin .
Few competent observers have , however , been able to find a fungus in this disease , and Dr. Michelson , of Konigsberg , in an able historical sketch in a recent number of " Virchow 's Archiv , " t quotes with approval a statement by Pincus , J who avers that up to the year 1869 none of the observations which are relied on as confirming Gruby 's observations will stand criticism .
The fungus has been sought for chiefly by dermatologists , and in Hebra 's text-book of " Skin Diseases , " S a work of recognised standing , v. Barensprung , Hebra , Wilson , Neumann , Bceck , Duhring , Scheren-berg , and Kaposi are cited as having been unable to find it .
The parasitic theory originated by Gruby was noticed less and less by authorities , the disappearance of the hair in patches from a pale uninflamed skin being attributed to a " tropho-neurosis .
" Latterly , the question of parasitism has been again raised .
Malassez || stated in a paper published in 1874 that he had found a fungus , not in the hairs , but on the surface of the epidermis of the diseased parts .
There was no mycelium found , but only spores , of which he described three types:\#151 ; 1 .
Double-contoured spores , sometimes with a bud ( bourgeon ) , 4\#151 ; h/ x in diameter ; 2 .
Smaller spores , 2\#151 ; 2'6/ t large , single-contoured , some-of these also with a bud ; 3 .
Very small , under 2 ft.sporules , single-contoured and without buds .
* " Comptes Rendus , " 1843 , xvii , p. 301 .
t Vol. lxxx , p. 296 .
I " Ueber Herpes tonsurans u. Area Celsi .
" " Deutsche Klinik , " vol. xxi .
S " Lehrbuch der Hautkrankheiten , " vol. ii , p. 150 .
|| " Archives de Physiologic Norm , et Patholog .
, " 1874 .
VOL. XXXIII .
S Dr. G. Thin .
Eichhorst* states that in nine cases he found spores on the diseased hairs once , between the shaft and root sheaths .
There was no mycelium , and the spores were about the size of those of the furfur .
The descriptions given by Gruby , Malassez , and Eichhorst of his solitary case differ from each other ; Gruby describing a fungus with mycelium which ensheathes the hair shaft , Malassez single spores of various sizes scattered over the epidermis , and Eichhorst large spores between the hair shaft and root sheaths .
A hypothesis of another kind has been put forward by Buchner , f Considering that the disappearance of the hair in ever-widening circles which bear no relation to the distribution of blood-vessels or nerves , without any evident cause , is best explained by the theory of parasitism , but yet acknowledging the failure of the attempts that have been made to discover the parasite , this observer asks whether the parasite may not be a bacterium , which on account of its smallness and position in the hair cannot be brought under observation .
In support of this hypothesis he instances an experiment which he made .
In a case of the disease he extracted hairs from the affected patch with heated forceps ( so as to exclude contamination to the greatest possible extent ) , and placed them in a cultivating fluid .
He reasoned that if there are bacteria in the hairs they will be in greater number than the bacteria introduced accidentally with the hairs , and that in the first hours of cultivation they would greatly outnumber these latter .
Accordingly , he found in eight successive cultivations a bacterium which he describes as a small refractive sharply contoured particle ( Kornchen ) , scarcely O'OOl millim. in diameter , with two very fine and short thread-like processes projecting from opposite poles .
He remarks that this may not necessarily be the form which the presumed bacterium has in the hair , as the effect of cultivation is sometimes to alter the forms of bacteria .
The observations which are recorded in the following paper were preceded by desultory studies of hairs extracted from patients suffering from this disease during the five years preceding 1880 , of which no notes were taken , my attention having been directed to the subject after the appearance of Malassez 's paper in 1874 .
In none of the hairs , however , which I examined did I discover a fungus .
The hairs which I did not have time to examine were put away for future study , carefully folded in paper .
In examining one of the hairs which had been kept for some time , I observed flakes of a filmy substance fall away from the hair , and imbedded in this substance there were what seemed to me to be great numbers of micrococci .
Erom that time when examining hairs from the margin of patches * " Virchow 's Archiv , " vol. lxxviii .
f " Virchow 's Archiv , " vol. lxxiv .
On Bacterium decalvans .
of this disease I always looked for evidences of the presence of bacteria .
The difficulty of distinguishing in a fluid minute granules from micrococci or from the spore forms of rod bacteria , is so great , that it was only when the characteristic appearances of elongating spheroids or small rod-shaped bodies containing spheroidal elements , arranged linearly , or rod bacteria were observed , that the evidence of the presence of organisms was deemed conclusive .
These were , however , observed sufficiently often to satisfy me that their presence was probably more than accidental , and to induce me to submit the affected hairs to various processes with the view of enabling the contents of the hair shaft to be better observed .
During the year 1880 six cases were specially utilised for this purpose , and , as in all these cases , a considerable number of hairs , in several of them a large number , were examined and submitted to methods of examination eminently fitted to display a fungus , if such were present , it may be useful to state in- further confirmation of the opinions generally entertained , that in none- of them any more than in those previously observed , was any fungus discovered.* All these six cases were unmistakable examples of alopecia areata .
Evidence that this was so would be out of place- in this paper , but will be given in due time in a professional journal in connexion with a description of the treatment under which the disease was in all of them at once arrested.f The treatment referred to was based on the evidence which , by this time I believed 1 had obtained , that the progress of the disease was due to the development of a bacterium .
In utilising these cases for the demonstration of an organism , my object was not so much to observe bacteria in fluids in which the haira were examined , as to endeavour to find some method by which their presence could be shown in the substance of the hair .
In five of the six cases I satisfied myself that this had been done .
This demonstration is attended with great difficulty .
In a comparatively sound hair it is very difficult to bring minute objects like bacteria under observation , and in hairs which are considerably affected the shaft is found , when prepared for examination , to be so full of pigment and other granules that it becomes very difficult to distinguish organisms amongst them , presuming these to be present .
The methods employed were the following:\#151 ; * The extent to which these investigations have been carried , more especially as regards the number of hairs examined in some of the cases , leads me to believe that those authors who have described a fungus in alopecia areata made a mistaken diagnosis , and that their cases were examples of ringworm in which the growth of the trichophyton had produced comparatively little reaction in the skin .
t As I am familiar with the disease , for the purposes of this paper my statement as regards the diagnosis may be considered sufficient .
Dr. G. Thin .
1 .
The hairs when extracted were placed for a short interval in potash solution ( the strength nsed varied from 5 to 20 per cent. ) ; they were then washed in distilled water , and passed successively through absolute alcohol and ether .
After being thoroughly subjected to the action of ether they were again placed successively in alcohol and distilled water , and were then finally mounted for examination in diluted Goadby 's solution.* The object of these manoeuvres was to make the hair transparent , free it from oily particles , and finally mount it in a medium suitable for the detection and preservation of any organisms which it might contain .
The method was not perfectly nor always successful , but in some instances it sufficed to show objects within the cuticle of the hair , which I believe it is justifiable to consider as bacteria .
2 .
The extracted hairs were at once examined in the Goadby 's solution .
3 .
The hairs were placed successively in absolute alcohol , oil of cloves , and dammar varnish , in which they were examined .
4 .
Hairs kept for future examination in Goadby 's solution , and in a 5 per cent , solution of carbolic acid were at convenient times , after being soaked for a little while in distilled water , subjected to the alcohol , oil of cloves , and dammar process .
In all cases precautions were taken to prevent the development of organisms after the hairs were extracted .
Attempts to show the presence of bacteria in the hairs by staining with methylaniline were defeated by the intensity with which the hair itself was stained with this dye .
The result of the examinations of a large number of hairs prepared by these methods has been to satisfy me that minute objects can be detected in them similar in size and form to those which I had recognised as organisms on the borders of freshly-extracted hairs , and preparations were obtained in which these objects were found in positions , and so arranged as to show that they were distinct from the rows and aggregations of minute granules which are found in healthy hairs .
The objects referred to were seen either as round or as elongated rounded bodies , and resembled in shape and in their refractive qualities the elements which I have described as cocci in a paper on Bacterium foetid , um ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 205 , 1880 ) .
In the preparations put up in dammar varnish these bodies were not liable to be mistaken for oily particles or crystals , which were not present in the hairs .
In the preparations put up in Goadby 's solution , in spite of the care which had been taken to soak the hairs in ether , oily * The following is the formula :\#151 ; Bay salt , 12 ounces ; burnt alum , 6 ounces j corrosive sublimate , 15 grains ; water , 1 gallon .
Dissolve and filter .
I have found it an excellent medium for mounting .
On Bacterium decalvans .
251 particles were present to such an extent as frequently to make accurate observations impossible .
In some bairs , however , this mode of preparation had produced results which were most instructive .
The effect of the potash and other treatment had been to get quit of the whole contents of the cuticle at some parts , the cuticle being then seen as a transparent membrane .
A.t these parts the minute objects I have described were found clustered on the inner surface of the membrane .
In all the hairs in which they were found , and in all the patients , these bodies were the same in size , and refracted light in the same way .
They were found frequently in pairs , the long axis of each member of the pair forming a continuous line .
Sometimes three of them were found end to end with an appearance of one continuous sheath for the three .
These appearances are characteristic of bacteria in development .
In seven cases in which a treatment was applied that was designed to arrest the development of organisms , and mechanically to prevent their being transported from one hair to the other , the disease at once ceased to spread. .
In one case , whilst the patches under treatment had been arrested , and new hairs were coming on them , two other patches had appeared unobserved on other parts of the head .
The same treatment at once arrested the growth of these new patches .
I have taken much pains to represent the size of these bodies by means of camera drawings , and I believe I have succeeded fairly well ; but I confess to have found it very difficult to get ' the exact size .
As many measurements made of the same objects agreed with each other I believe the drawings may be taken as a guarantee , both of size and shape .
In order further to ensure accuracy in this respect I obtained the kind assistance of Mr. Noble Smith , whose capacity as an accurate draughtsman in all that relates to microscopic objects is recognised and appreciated .
Fig. 2 was prepared from a drawing by Mr. Smith .
He determined the outlines of the hair , and drew a number of the objects ( or organisms ) to the size in which he saw them .
The others were filled in to the scale determined by Mr. Smith .
The magnifying power represented in the drawing was estimated by measuring the hair .
Clusters of the organisms were also found in dammar preparations in which the hair was found split into shreds .
These shreds were sometimes so thin that the objects which I am describing were seen with much distinctness .
The order of development of the organisms , or the different stages of their action in breaking up the hair shaft , I believe to be indicated by the appearances which I have figured in the drawings .
In Dr. G. Thin .
fig. 1 there is represented what I believe to be an early stage , the earliest which I have observed .
A cluster of bacteria is seen on the surface of the hair shaft , but under the cuticle of the hair , whilst on the side of the hair others are seen embedded in granular , probably remains of the inner root sheath .
The shaft of the hair is unbroken .
In fig. 2 great numbers of bacteria are seen near the root of a hair .
By regulation of the fine adjustment the position of the bacteria could be accurately made out .
A considerable length of the root sheath had come away with the hair , completely investing it .
The bacteria were found in a circular layer between the root sheath and the shaft of the hair .
They had neither penetrated the root sheath nor the shaft .
Fig. 4 indicates the position of the organisms as they are seen when the centre of the hair is brought into focus : the drawing being on too small a scale to show the individual bacteria their position has been shown by dark shading .
In fig. 5 the dark shading shows the position of the bacteria when the lower surface of the hair is brought into focus .
By comparing these three figures with each other , the arrangement of the bacteria becomes apparent .
In fig. 6 part of a hair is represented in which the removal of the substance of the hair shaft has shown a number of organisms disseminated over the inner surface of the cuticle .
They were traced towards the thick unemptied part of the hair , in which they became lost in a thick granular mass .
In fig. 7 a hair is shown in which organisms were found immediately under the cuticle .
I infer from all 'these appearances that the bacterium penetrates downwards between the internal root sheath and the shaft .
Towards the root of the hair it penetrates the hair substance , and as it multiplies it ascends upwards in the substance of the hair .
The breaking up , loosening , and disappearance of the hair is to be attributed to the disorganisation of the hair substance by the growing organisms , for it is impossible to suppose that a free development of bacteria could take place in the shaft of a hair without the substance being decomposed and its integrity destroyed .
This is the inference which it seems to me follows naturally from the detection of organisms in the diseased hairs in alopecia areata .
It might be alleged that it has not been shown that the composition of the hair is not altered by some supposed error of nutrition , and that bacteria find in these abnormal hairs a soil in which they can thrive .
No such alleged nutritive change has ever been shown to exist , and I believe that the existence of an object of a definite size and form having the characteristic appearance of a bacterium , and now ascertained for a certain although a small number of cases , will afford to workers in similar fields strong presumptive evidence that its presence is the key to the mystery in which the disease has been shrouded .
In On Bacterium decalvans .
extracting hairs for examination I took , them from a considerable breadth of margin , and as the proportion of the hairs examined which showed any change or evidence of organisms was small , it is probable that these are present only in a narrow zone , and that after a hair is once attacked development takes place rapidly and the hair soon falls .
It may be well to divide the statements made in this paper into two heads ; those which relate to ascertained facts , and those which relate to a theory of the causation of alopecia areata , which I believe is sustained by these facts :\#151 ; 1 .
The facts are that minute bodies of definite and fixed shape and size are found in and on the hairs in alopecia areata .
These bodies are distinct from the granular elements present in hairs , and are neither oily particles nor crystals .
They are of the size and shape , and have the refractive qualities of bacteria .
When present in small numbers on the shaft the hair is entire , whilst within some hairs much affected by the disease they were found in great numbers .
2 .
The " theory is that these bodies are bacteria , and that the disappearance of the hair is due to a breaking up of the hair shaft by the multiplication in it of the organisms .
As I believe it is desirable to give to definite objects like those which I have described a name which will mark their association with the theory I have founded on them , and as I am myself satisfied as to their nature , I suggest the term Bacterium decalvans as a convenient designation .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 3 .
Figure 1 .
Case of S. B. A small group of organisms on the shaft of the hair , under the cuticle .
Others are seen scattered in a granular mass which is adherent to the hair .
( Camera drawing .
) x 600 .
Figure 2 .
Case of I. F. Organisms between the root-slieath and the shaft of the hair near the root .
( Drawn by Mr. Noble Smith .
) x about 470 .
Figure 3 .
Organisms from the group shown in fig. 2 , more highly magnified .
( Camera drawing .
) x 560 .
Figure 4 .
The hair shown in fig. 2 , the focus being now in the axis of the hair .
The position of the organisms is indicated by the dark shading .
Figure 5 .
The hair shown in fig. 2 when the focus is carried down to the under surface , the position of the organisms being again indicated by the dark shading .
Figure 6 .
Case of S. B. In a part of the hair from which the substance of the hair-shaft has disappeared and the cuticle left empty , organisms are seen lying on the internal surface .of the cuticle .
( Camera drawing .
) x 880 .
Figure 7 .
Case of N. S. Organisms on the shaft and beneath the cuticle .
( Camera drawing .
) VOL. XXXIII .
X

