VI .
Catalogue of Double Stars .
By William Herschel , Esq. F. R. S. Read December 9 , 1784 .
INTRODUCTORYREMARK S. THE great use of Double Stars having been already pointed out in a former paper , on the Parallax of the Fixed Stars , and in a latter one , on the Motion of the Solar System , I have now drawn up a second collection of 434 more , which I have found out since the first was delivered .
The happy opportunity of giving all my time to the pursuit of astronomy , which it has pleased the Royal Patron of this Society to furnish me with , has put it in my power to make the present collection much more perfect than the former ; almost every double star in it having the distance and position of its two stars measured by proper micrometers ; and the observations have been much oftener repeated .
The method of classing them is in every respect the same as that which has been used in the first collection ; for which reason I refer to the introductory remarks that have been given with that collection * for an explanation of several particulars necessary to be previously known .
The numbers of the stars are here also continued , so that the first class ending there at * See Philosophical Transactions , vol. LXXII .
p. 112 .
24 begins here at 25 , and the same is done with the other classes .
Most of the double stars in my first collection are among the number of those stars which have their places determined in Mr. FLAMSTEED'S extensive catalogue ; but of this collection many are not contained in that author 's work , I have therefore adopted a method of pointing them out , which it will be proper to describe .
The finder of my reflector is limited , by a proper diaphragm , to a natural field of two degrees of a great circle in diameter .
The intersection of the cross wires , in the center of it , points out one degree ; and by the eye this degree , or the distance from the center to the circumference , may be divided into 1/ 4 , 1/ 2 , 3/ 4 , 1/ 3 , and 2/ 3 .
Thus we are furnished with a measure which , though coarse , is however sufficiently accurate for the purpose here intended ; and which , if more than two degrees are wanted , may be repeated at pleasure .
In such measures as these I have given the distance of a double star , whose place I wanted to point out , from the nearest star in FLAMSTEED'S Catalogue .
And since , besides the distance , it is also required to have its position with regard to the star thus referred to , I have used the neighbouring stars for the purpose of pointing it out .
The usefulness of this method is so extensive , that I shall be a little more particular in describing its application .
When a star is thus pointed out , as for instance the 32d in the first class , where it is said , ` ` About 3/ 4 degree s. preceding the 44th Lyncis , in a line parallel to ~ Ursae majoris and the 39th Lyncis ; ' ' we are to apply one eye to the finder , and placing the 44th Lyncis into the center of the field , we are to look at ~ Ursae major 's and the 39th Lyncis in the heavens with the other eye by the side of the finder .
The naked eye then will immediately direct us , by means of the two stars just mentioned , towards the place where , in the finder , the armed eye will perceive the double star in question about 3/ 4 degree from the 44th Lyncis .
I need hardly observe , that we must recollect the inversion of the finder , as those who are in the habit of using telescopes with high powers , always furnished with inverting finders , will of course look for the small star in the upper part of the field , as in fig. 1 .
At the 45th star , in the first class , the description says , About 11/ 4 degree s. preceding ~ , towards ~ Aurigae .
' ' This double star will accordingly be found by placing ~ Aurigae first into the center of the finder ; then , drawing the telescope towards ~ , which the naked eye points out , the star we look for will begin to appear in the circumference as soon as ~ is about 1/ 4 degree removed from the center , as in fig. 2 .
It will sometimes happen , that other stars are very near those which are thus pointed out , that might be mistaken for them .
In such cases an additional precaution has been used by mentioning some circumstance either of magnitude or situation , to distinguish the intended star from the rest .
After all , if any observer should be still at a loss to find these stars without having their right ascension and declination , he may furnish himself with them by means of FLAMSTEED'S Atlas Coelestis ; for my description will be sufficiently exact for him to make a point in the maps to denote the star 's place ; then , by means of the graduated margin , he will have its ~ and declination to the time of the Atlas , which he may reduce to any other period by the usual computations .
Before I quit this subject I must remark , that it will be found on trial , that this method of pointing out a double star is not only equal , but indeed superior , to having its right ascension and declination given : for , since it is to be viewed with very high powers , not such as fixed instruments are generally furnished with , the given right ascension and declination would be of no service .
We might , indeed , find the star by a fixed or equatorial instrument ; and , taking notice of its situation with regard to other neighbouring stars , find , and view it afterwards , by a more powerful telescope ; but this will nearly amount to the very same way which here is pursued , with more deliberate accuracy than we are apt to use , while we are employed in seeking out an object to look at .
It will be required , that the observer should be furnished with FLAMSTEED'S Atlas Coelestis , which must have the stars marked from the author 's catalogue , by a number easily added to every star with pen and ink , as I have done to mine .
The catalogue should also be numbered by an additional column , after that which contains the magnitudes .
I hope in some future editions of the Atlas to see this method adopted in print , as the advantage of it is very considerable , both in referring to the catalogue for the place of a star laid down in the Atlas , and in finding a star in the latter whose place is given in the former .
I would recommend a precaution to those who wish to examine the closest of my double stars .
It relates to the adjust meant of the focus .
Supposing the telescope and the observer long enough out in the open air to have acquired a settled temperature , and the night sufficiently clear for the purpose ; let the focus of the instrument be re-adjusted with the utmost delicacy upon a star known to be single , of nearly the same altitude , magnitude , and colour , as the star which is to be examined , or upon one star above and another below the same .
Let the phenomenon of the adjusting star be well attended to ; as , whether it be perfectly round and well defined , or affected with little appendages that frequently keep playing about the image of the star , undergoing small alterations while it passes through the field , at other times remaining fixed to it during the whole passage .
Such deceptions may be detected by turning or unscrewing the object-glass or speculum a little in its cell , when those appendages will be observed to revolve the same way .
Being thus acquainted with the imperfections as well as perfections of the instrument , and going immediately from the adjusting star , which for that reason also should be as near as may be , to the double star which is to be examined , we may hope to be successful .
The astronomical Mr. AUBERT , who did me the honour to follow this method with ~ Leonis , which he did not find to be double when the telescope was adjusted by ~ itself , soon perceived the small star after he had adjusted it upon Regulus .
The instrument , being one of Mr. DOLLOND'S best 31/ 2 feet achromatics , showed Mr. AUBERT the two stars of ~ Leonis in very close conjunction , or rather one partly hid behind the other .
On comparing these appearance~ with my observations of that double star , we must not be surprised to find that I place them at a visible distance from each other : for the Newtonian reflectors , on the plan of my 7-feet one , as I have found , will give a much smaller image of the stars than the 31/ 2 feet achromatic refractors ; wherefore the two stars , which in refractors as it were run into each other , will in the reflector remain separate .
For this reason also , those who only use such refractors must not be disappointed if they cannot perceive the 26th , 30 , 31 , 36 , 41 , 44 , 46 , 47 , 60 , 75 , 82 , 86 , and 87th stars of my first class to be double , All the observations in the following catalogue on the relative magnitude , colour , and position of the stars , are to be understood as having been made with a power of 460 , unless they are marked otherwise .
This will account for the difference which observers may find in the relative magnitude ; for should they use only a power of about 200 , many of the small stars that are said to be very unequal and extremely unequal , must appear to them perhaps a degree lower in the scale , and become extremely and excessively unequal : and this will happen , though the quantity of light should be the very same which the reflector has that served me to settle these particulars .
I need not say , that on other accounts , such as a real difference in the light of the telescope , the presence of the moon , twilights , aurorae boreales , or other causes , many of the small stars may be found to be of a different comparative lustre from what is assigned to them in the catalogue .
The small star near Rigel , for instance , appears of a beautiful pale red colour , full , round , and well defined , with my 20-feet reflector ; the 10-feet instrument shows it also very well in fine evening ; the 7-feet requires more attention , nor is the small star defined , but of a dusky pale red colour .
A good 31/ 2 feet achromatic , of a large aperture , when Rigel is on the meridian , may , perhaps , also show the small star , although I have not been able to see it with a very good instrument of that sort , which shows the small star that accompanies the pole-star ; but the evening was not very favourable .
The measures of the distances were all taken with a parallel silk-worm's-thread micrometer , and a power of 227 only .
They are not , as in the former catalogue , with the diameters included , but from the center of one star to the center of the other .
I have adopted these measures on finding that I could procure threads fine enough to subtend only an angle of about 1~ 13~ , and that by this means there was no longer any great difficulty of judging when the stars were centrally covered by the threads .
However , I do not know whether these measures , with stars at a considerable distance , may not be liable to an additional error of perhaps one second , owing to the remaining uncertainty in judging of their exact central position while the measure is taking .
The positions have all been measured ( unless marked otherwise ) with a power of 460 , adapted to an excellent micrometer , executed by Mess .
NAIRNE and BLUNT , according to the model given in the Philosophical Transactions , vol. LXXI .
page 500 .
fig. IV .
; but with a great and necessary improvement of making the wheel d , d , of that figure perform its whole revolution ; by which means the two silk-wormsthreads may be adjusted to a greater degree of exactness ; for if they are not placed so as perfectly to bisect the circle , the two threads will not coincide exactly after having performed one semi-revolution , which they must be made to do with the utmost rigour .
I found the absolute necessity of this precaution when I came critically to examine the positions of the Georgium Sidus , as they are given in table III .
Phil. Trans. vol. LXXI .
p. 497 .
The measures were affected with a small and pretty regular error , which I was at a loss to account for ; and the distance of this star being then totally unknown , I looked for the cause of the deviation at first in a diurnal parallax of that heavenly body ; but soon found it owing to the inconvenience before-mentioned , of not being able experimentally to adjust the moveable thread to that critical nicety which I have now introduced and used in all the angles of the following catalogue* .
W. HERSCHEL .
Datchet near Windsor , Nov. 1 , 1784 .
CATALOGUEOFDOUBLESTAR S. FIRSTCLAS S. I. 25 .
A Orionis .
FL .
32 .
Sub humero in consequentia .
Double .
Considerably unequal .
L. fine w. ; S. w. inclining to pale rose colour .
The distance or black division between the two stars with 278 is about 1/ 4 diameter of L. ; with 460 , near 1/ 2 diameter of L. Position with 278 , 52~ 10~ s. preceding .
Jan. 20 .
1782 .
26 .
w Leonis .
FL .
2 .
Anteriorem pedem dextrum praecedens .
A very minute double star .
Considerably unequal .
Both r. With 227 there is not the least suspicion of its being double ; with 460 it appears oblong , and , when perfectly distinct , we see 3/ 4 of the apparent diameter of a small star as it were emerged from behind a larger star ; with 932 they are more clear of each other , but not separated ; the focus of every power adjusted upon the 3d and 6th Leonis .
November 6th , 1782 , I Feb. 8 .
1782 .
* The divisions on the moveable circular index ( a ) of this micrometer should be read off by means of a line drawn on a small plate fastened to the side t , and projecting with a proper curvature against the plane of the divisions towards r , so as to be nearly in contact ; a coincidence of lines being by far the best method of ascertaining the situation of the index .
A nonius of four sub-divisions may also be used , whereby the 60 divisions , already divided into halves upon the indexplate , will be had in eighths , each of which , on the construction of my present one , will be equal to three minutes of a degree of the circle .
I. first suspected a separation ; and November 13th , fairly saw a division between them .
April 4 , 1783 , with an improved reflector of 20 feet 3 inches focal length and 12 inches aperture , I saw them evidently divided .
Position 20~ 54~ s. following * .
27 .
FL .
90 Leonis .
Infra eductionem caudae .
Treble .
The two nearest-very unequal .
L. w. ; S. rw .
With 278 , 11/ 4 diameter of L ; with 460 , 11/ 2 diameter of L. Position with 278 , 61~ 9~ s. preceding .
The two farthest-very unequal .
S. dusky r. Distance from L. 53~ 43~ .
Position 35~ 12~ s. preceding .
Feb. 9 .
1782 .
28 .
~ Leonis .
FL 41 .
In collo lucida .
A beautiful double star .
Pretty unequal .
L. w. ; S. w. inclining a little to pale red .
With 227 and 278 distinctly separated ; with 460 , 1/ 6 diameter of S. ; with 625 , 1/ 4 diameter ; with 932 , full 1/ 4 diameter , or when Feb. 11 .
1782 .
*I suspect these stars to recede from each other .
It is , however , very possible , that the opening which I observed between them , at the latter end of the year 1782 and beginning of 1783 , may be owing to very favourable weather , or to my being better acquainted with the object .
Could we increase our power and distinctness at pleasure , we might undoubtedly separate any two stars that are not absolutely in a direct line passing through the eye of the observer , and the centers of both the stars .
This will appear when we consider that perhaps 59 thirds out of one second , which the diameter of the star may subtend , are spurious ; so that a double star seemingly in contact , or even partly hiding each other in appearance , may still be far enough asunder to admit of a fair and considerable separation by applying an adequate magnifying power .
It would have been curious , if a considerable difference in the colours could have led us to discover which of the two stars is before the other !
But the far greatest part of their apparent diameters being , as we have observed , spurious , it is probable , that a different coloured light of two stars would join together , where the rays of one extend into those of the other ; and so , producing a third colour by the mixture of it , still leave the question undecided .
I. best 1/ 2 diameter of S. ; with 1504 , 3/ 4 diameter , welldefined , and the difference of colours still visible ; with 2176 , not quite a diameter of S , pretty well defined , but exceedingly tremulous ; with 2589 , less than 1 diameter ; with 3168 , still pretty distinct , and about 3/ 4 diameter of S~ with 4294 , more than a diameter of S , but attended with the utmost difficulty of managing the motions ; with 5489 , the interval still somewhat larger , and if the object could be kept in the center of the field , the eye might adapt itself to the focus , and get the better of the violent aberration ; but the edges of the glass being of a different focus , the eye is constantly disappointed in its endeavours to define the object ; with 6652 , I had but a single glimpse of the star quite disfigured ; however , I ascribe it chiefly to the foulness of the glass , which , on account of its smallness , is extremely difficult to be cleaned ; with a 10-feet reflector , 9 inches aperture , power 626 , above 1/ 2 diameter of S. very distinct ; with a 20-feet reflector , power 350 , too bright an object to be quite distinct , though I see it very well .
Position 5~ 24~ n. following .
A third star preceding .
Dist .
1~ 51~ 23~ , pretty accurate for so great a distance .
Position 31~ 0~ n. preceding .
A fourth star preceding the third , and somewhat smaller .
29 .
Parvula juxta FL .
44am Leonis , Double .
About 4~ following the 44th Leonis , which being double in the finder , this is the least of the two .
Extremely unequal .
L. w. S. d. With 227 , 11/ 3 diameter of L. ; with 460 , 2 diameters of L. Position 26~ 32~ n. following .
Feb. 17 .
1782 .

