XXIV .
Experiments and observations on the Newry pitch-stone , and its products , and on the formation of pumice .
By the Right Honourable GEORGE KNOX , F. R. S. Read May 9 , 1822 .
THE locality of this mineral , and the singularity of its external characters , having excited my curiosity , I took advantage of the facilities furnished by the liberality of the Royal Society of Dublin , of which I have the honour of being one of the Vice Presidents , to make the subjoined analysis in their laboratory .
Doctor FITTON , in an excellent paper inserted in the first volume of the Transactions of the Geological Society , has given a minute description of the site and external characters of the Newry pitch-stone .
I shall transcribe it , previous to laying before the Royal Society my own observations .
I do so with more satisfaction , as we in general agree ; in fact , scarcely two specimens are exactly the same , although contiguous to each other in the vein ; some being compact , some thin slaty , some olive , and some leek-green ; some so disintegrated , particularly when exposed to the air , as to be friable between the fingers , while others retain their gloss , consistency , and colour , with much tenacity , although they all fall at length into rhomboidal fragments .
I may add also , that while some are quite porphyritic , others have but a few specks of felspar on their surface , MIDCCCXXII .
S However , Dr. FITTON seems to have overlooked two very striking characters of it , which engaged my particular attention , and gave birth to those conjectures , which principally induced me to undertake the analysis by which they have been verified .
I mean the smell , and strong oily taste .
" This substance ( Dr. FITTON observes ) , is found in a " vein traversing granite , in the vicinity of Newry , in the ' County Down .
Its colour is intermediate between moun .
" tain and leek-green .
It is massive .
Fracture small , and " not very perfect conchoidal .
" Internal lustre , resino-vitreous , and shining .
It exhibits " lamellar distinct concretions ; the plates are from one " fourth to one-tenth of an inch in thickness , and are further " divisible into pieces of the rhomboidal form of various " angles .
The surface of the concretions is smooth and " strongly glistening .
Slightly translucent on the edges .
It " scratches window glass , but is easily scratched by quartz .
" Easily broken .
Specific gravity 2,29 .
Before the blow " pipe , without addition , it yields a greyish-white frothy ' enamel .
It is in some places porphyritic , containing im"bedded minute crystals of felspar and of quartz .
I " A letter from a very intelligent observer , who has examined this substance in its native place , states the follow6 ing particulars respecting its position : " The vein is first observable in the Townland of Newry , at the bottom of a bank of granite , about half a mile from the northern end of the town , on the right of the road lead"ing to Downpatrick .
It crosses the road , and runs due westward , ending on the side of the great road from Newry 1s 4 " to Belfast .
Its length , so far as hitherto observed , is half " a mile .
" The rock , which is covered with mould to the depth of a " foot , consists of a grey granite .
The vein is about two feet and a half , or two and a quarter in width ; at the places of contact , both the granite and pitch-stone are disintegrated , the latter being almost as soft as clay , but becoming ' gradually harder as it approaches the center of the vein .
" The structure of the vein is foliated , the folia being perpendicular to the horizon , and also to the walls ; and , besides these , there are seams , that run longitudinally , parallel " to the horizon , and nearly perpendicular to the folia .
" Although this substance presents some peculiarity , in " being divisible into rhomboidal fragments , it approaches in this respect to the pitch , stone of Arran , ( in lamellar concretions ) which holds as it were a middle place between it , and " that possessing the more usual characters .
" Mr. JAMESON has described a vein of pitch-stone " running " in granite " observed by himself in Arran ; * and he states Cc that lamellar distinct concretions have been hitherto ob " served in the pitch-stone of that island only .
' " To the geological account of this mineral , above given , I have only to add , that the granite which it traverses is rather of a soft kind , containing much felspar , and disposed to be converted , by decomposition , into lithomarge ; and that a vein of basalt nearly parallel to it , at the distance of about an hundred yards , passes through the same rock of granite .
This basalt very readily disintegrates by exposure to air and moisture ; and it contains spheroidal concentric balls of basalt of a loose contexture ; and likewise a considerable quantity of compact stilbite , approaching to fibrous , and of a schistose structure .
I obtained specimens of the pitch-stone of various kinds , compact , thin slaty , and disintegrated ; and one of the thin slaty was of a different colour from the rest , darker , more porphyritic , and of a more shining lustre .
The external characters of all agreed in the following particulars .
Specific gravity 2,31 .
Fracture , small conchoidal ; fragments indeterminately angular , rather sharp edged and rhomboidal.--Surface , smooth and glistening.-Feel , unctuous .
Lustre , resinous .
Hardness , semi-hard , the sharp edges scratching glass.-Streak and powder wnitish grey , passing into greenish grey.-Smell , oily.-Before the blow-pipe , fuses without addition into a pale leek-green glass .
Colour of the most porphyritic specinmen , perfect leek-green ; of the rest , olive-green , passing into oil-green .
Although the peculiar character of this variety of pitchstone is its smell , yet , I believe , it differs from all others , including those from Arran , in the degree in which it is disposed to divide into thin lamine ; its proneness to disintegrate , and the regularity of its rhomboidal fragments .
So much is it inclined to disintegrate , that a piece , nearly compact , after lying for some days on the table of a warm laboratory , fell into large rhomboidal fragments .
It will appear , I think , that these qualities proceed from the same cause .
A piece of the compact specimen was exposedfor half an hour to a red heat in an open crucible .
It lost 7,75 per cent. $16 of its weight .
The colour changed to a pitch brown .
It retained its lustre .
It opened , in the manner of cannel coal , into thin slaty fragments , but without actually falling in piecs , and the interstices acquired a more greasy lustre , and smoother appearance , than the rest of the stone .
The circumstances above detailed namely , the oily smell , the disintegration , and the effect of ignition , excited a suspicion that the mineral contained some inflammable substance .
One hundred grains of the compact , in fine powder , were exposed to a white heat in a platina crucible , and were converted into a glass of a very pale leek-green colour , and lost ten per cent. Two hundred and twenty grains of the same , coarsely powdered , were put into a small coated ( common bottle glass ) retort , to the mouth of which a phial , previously weighed , was luted with white lute , and exposed for half an hour to a red heat .
A colourless liquor came over , which had a slightly bituminous smell .
The receiver had gained 16 grains , being 7,2727 per cent. The retort breaking , I was not able to ascertain the loss of weight of its charge .
The stone finely powdered , and projected on melted nitre , scintillated a little .
I now proceeded to my analysis , in the usual way , following the method of KLAPROTH , in his analysis of the pitch-stone from Meissen ; my view having been , at first , rather to as , certain ingredients , than proportions .
It may be as well to mention , in this place , the result of KLAPROTH'S analysis .
It was Silex. .
73 Alumina. .
14,50 Lime ... 1,00 Oxide of iron ... 1,0o Oxide of manganese. .
o , o Soda. .
1,75 Water. .
8,50 99,85 He obtained his silex by exposing ioo grains of the pulverised stone , along with 2oo grains of caustic soda , to a strong red heat , for half an hour , in a silver crucible ; when cool , softening with water , dissolving in muriatic acid , evaporating nearly to dryness , diffusing in water , and filtering .
The alumina was obtained by boiling the muriated solution , thus freed from silex , with excess of caustic soda .
The alumina was held in solution while the lime and iron were thrown down .
The alkali was then neutralised , and the earth precipitated by carbonate of soda .
The precipitated lime and iron , first dissolved in muriatic acid , and then combined with sulphuric acid , gave sulphate of lime , which was collected and washed with weak spirits of wine , and the pure lime was estimated as in the proportion of one to three in the sulphate .
The iron was precipitated by carbonate of ammonia .
Some flocks , which appeared in the remaining fluid after it had been evaporated to dryness and re-dissolved , were presumed to be manganese , and estimated at one-tenth of a grain .
I proceeded in the same manner but obtained no manga$18 nese ; and in the liquor from which the sulphate of lime was extracted , there was no sulphate of magnesia .
The alumina boiled in sulphuric acid and mixed with sul .
phate of potash was converted into alum , leaving nothing in solution .
The first thing which caught my attention in the course of this process , was the appearance of a black insoluble matter in the muriatic solution from which the silica had been separated .
As it evaporated with considerable rapidity , in consequence of the great heat of the sand bath , a rim was left from time to time on the surface of the pan of dry salt , which , from being orange , became white , and shortly after a black powder used to separate from it , fall to the bottom of the pan , and remain undissolved .
This I at first suspected to be oxide of manganese ; but , having collected it , I found that it was insoluble in acids , and that it burned away at a red heat .
I then conceived that some carbon had accidentally got into the liquor ; but as the same phenomena recurred with every experiment , and I repeated my analysis many times , I became convinced that it belonged to the stone .
Other circumstances , however , put it out of doubt .
To obtain the alkalies , if any existed in the stone , I pursued each of the methods usually recommended ; that invented by ROSE , and practised by KLAPROTH ; that of Sir HUMPHRY DAVY ; the new process by CERUSE ; and the action of acids on the stone ; by the last of which I finally abided .
KLAPROTH mixed 0oo grains of the pulverised stone with Soo of nitrate of barytes , ignited them in a porcelain cruible , and neutralised the mass with muriatic acid , which he Si9 expelled again with sulphuric acid .
The inspissated mass he washed with hot water , filtered , and saturated the filtered liquor with excess of ammonia .
The residuum being separated by the filter , the remaining fluid was evaporated to dryness ; the sulphate of ammonia having been driven off at a moderate heat , sulphate of soda was left behind .
This being dissolved , was decomposed by acetate of barytes , and filtered ; the filtered solution evaporated to dryness , and the dry salt exposed to a red heat in a platina crucible .
The saline residue was then re-dissolved and evaporated to dryness .
It was carbonate of soda .
I have detailed this well known process , chiefly to remark an occurrence in one part of it , whiclt continued to confirm me in the opinion that the stone contained an inflammable substance .
When I was expelling the sulphate of ammonia , I was struck by the melted mass in the crucible , which had before been white , suddenly becoming black , and , as the sulphate of ammonia flew off , gathering into a black powder .
This powder being insoluble in water , was easily collected ; and , like that which I had got before from the acid solution , resisted the acid , and was volatilised by a red heat .
The alkali which I obtained was soda .
By converting it into nitrate , sulphate , and muriate , and observing the crystallization of each , and by testing it with muriate of platina , I ascertained that it contained no potash .
It had none of the characters of lithia , neither the crystals of the muriate nor of the nitrate were deliquescent , nor did they tinge the flame when burned with alcohol .
When a small portion of the stone , enveloped in soda and placed on platina leaf , was treated by the blow-pipe , it left no black mark on the metal : it contained therefore no lithia .
I proceed now to my final analysis , premising that , although the last , I think it may be pretty well relied upon .
I had made a separate one for each ingredient , giving my whole attention to that which I had selected , without embarrassing myself much with the others .
In this final analysis I adopted a different process , considering it more convenient .
My compact pitch-stone being exhausted , I was obliged to resort to the next most compact , and which I call the slaty compact .
One hundred grains , mixed with 200 of caustic soda in a silver crucible , were exuosed to a red heat .
When cool , the contents of the crucible were softened with water and dissolved in muriatic acid .
A jelly was formed , by evaporating the solution slowly on a sand bath .
When nearly dry , it was diffused in water and filtered .
The silica caught on the filter , and exposed to a red heat , weighed 70,8 grains .
( a ) The filtered liquor ( a ) was evaporated to dryness , and the mass re-dissolved ; there remained a powder , which dried at a red heat , weighed 0,75 , and was silica .
( b ) The liquor ( b ) from which the 0,75 of silica had been separated , was precipitated by ammonia and filtered ; alumina and iron remained on the filter ; the lime went through in solution ( c ) .
The iron and alumina were washed completely off the filter into a silver evaporating dish before they were dry , by projecting against it water , impelled by the breath through a dropping glass ; a mode of removing substances from filters always effectual , and far preferable to drying and collecting the dry powders from the paper .
It was suggested by Mr WHIARMLEY , Chemical Assistant in the Laboratory of the Royal Society of Dublin .
The alumina and iron thus collected , were boiled in caustic potash until a separation had taken place , the iron remaining as a powder at the bottom of the silver pan , and the alumina being held in solution by the alkali ( d ) .
The iron separated by the filter in the manner above mentioned , was dried and weighed .
It weighed 5,25 grains .
It was then dissolved in muriatic acid , with which it effervesced , and therefore had been carbonated .
A powder remained behind weighing o , g grain , which was silica .
The iron was then precipitated by caustic potash , filtered , and again evaporated to dryness ; it weighed 3,4 grains , which gives of protoxide of iron 3 , o36 grains .
The solution ( c ) evaporated to dryness and re-dissolved , left a residuum which weighed one grain , and which being insoluble in boiling sulphuric acid , and being perfectly white and gritty , I concluded to be silica .
It was then precipitated by carbonate of soda , filtered , washed and dried ; the precipitate , which was carbonate of lime , weighed 2 grains .
Now , 2 grains of carbonate of lime may be estimated at 1,12 of lime .
The alkaline solution ( d ) was precipitated while hot by muriate of ammonia , filtered , washed , and ignited in a platina crucible ; it weighed 11,5o grains .
Extraction of the alkali by acid .
Nitric acid .
aoo grains of the pulverised stone were boiled with dilute nitric acid .
When dry , the soluble part was taken up by water and replaced by fresh acid .
This process was repeated until the acid seemed to have no farther effect .
The aqueous solutions were then thrown together and evaporated to dry .
ness .
Alcohol removed the nitrate of lime ; and the iron being peroxidated by the nitric acid , nothing remained when the mass was re-dissolved in water but nitrate of soda , which crystallized in cubes , and had every other property of nitre .
This being evaporated again to dryness , and weighed , was found to be 7,75 grains of nitrate of soda , which gives 2,857 for soda .
I consider this to be the real proportion of the alkali .
It differs but little from the following result by Muriatic acid .
loo grains were treated in the same way with muriatic acid , the iron being peroxidised when the aqueous solution was evaporated to dryness .
The chloride of sodium weighed 5 grains .
Now , 5 grains of chloride of sodium make of dry soda , or oxide of sodium , 1,98198 , being in the proportion 55,5 to 22 ; but 1,98198 of dry soda produce 2,87044 of hydrate of soda , the state in which it is probable the alkali exists in the stone .
In the process with the muriatic acid two new and decisive phenomena presented themselves .
When evaporating off the excess of muriatic acid from the solution in a platina crucible with a silver cover , I observed the inside of the cover , which I had laid lightly on and removed from time to time , to be coated with a yellow substance , which had a bituminous smell .
I placed the cover with the O32 top down on a chafing dish of charcoal , and in a few minutes the whole was volatilised , and the silver became bright .
On evaporating the alcohol , in order to ascertain how much lime the acid had taken up , I observed a dark oily substance collecting as the alcohol diminiished , and which , when the solution was nearly dry , was collected , and weighed 3,70 grains .
It had an empyreumatic smell , was insoluble in ether , but dissolved in spirits of turpentine , and inflamed with difficulty with a thick smoke and pungent odour .
Naptha dissolved it only in part , and changed the colour to grassgreen .
It seemed to retain some muriatic acid , and gave indications of containintg some iron ; it was therefore impure bitumen .
All these circumstances combined to urge me to obtain the bituminous matter of the stone , if possible , in a state of purity , and to ascertain the quantity which existed in it .
I therefore engaged in the following experiments : I procured an iron retort about 6 inches long and half an inch in diameter , one end of which was screwed to a bent gunbarrel , and the other , or bottom , closed by an iron screw .
This apparatus was perfectly well made , and air tight .
Experiment i. Into the retort I put 480 grains , in coarse powder , of the dark leek-green thin slaty Newry pitch-stone , as , from its appearance , I judged that that variety contained the greatest proportion of bitumen .
The retort was then enclosed in a long earthen crucible , the interstices being filled up with glass-house sand , and placed in a powerful side furnace .
To the end of the gunbarrel was affixed , and luted with white lute , a glass tube , with a hollow ball near its junction with the mouth of the retort , for receiving liquids , and fitted at the other to a mercurial trough , in order to collect the gases that might come over.* A considerable quantity of gas came over , in addition to the air of the vessel , and when the retort had acquired a red heat , a liquor distilled which was evidently water .
When the heat was urged farther , another liquor made its appearance .
It was slightly coloured and ran down , in oily streaks , into the receiver , where it floated on the water .
When the distillation had ceased the apparatus was removed , all access of air excluded from the receiver , and the gases examined .
They consisted of carbonic acid , which was removed by lime water and caustic potash ; of hydrogen , which was judged of by its inflammation ; and of carburetted hydrogen , which was tested by adding to a portion of the gas , deprived of carbonic acid , some oxygen gas and exploding by electricity .
Carbonic acid was thereby generated , as was proved by its rendering lime water turbid .
The receiver , which had been previously weighed , was now examinied .
It had gained 7,81 grains per cent. The oily fluid had the smell of tobacco , exactly that of a tobacco-pipe long in use , and it burned with a similar flame to naptha : while burning it had the same smell as petroleum , which I had collected myself at the Pays de la Poix , near Clermont , in Auvergne .
The water was neither acid nor alkaline .
The experiment was repeated , but without an attempt to catch the gases ; and the moment the smell came over the receiver was changed , by which means nearly the whole was obtained , independent of what it suffered from decomposition , and weighed about 2,5 grains per cent. Experiment 2 .
Finding that the iron decomposed the water , and thereby in part the bitumen also , I gave up that apparatus , and had a very strong glass retort , such as is used in the manufacture of common wine bottles , made of a similar shape , and coated , to which a receiver of the same form as those described was luted as before .
I may mention here a very curious appearance of the mass which remained in the iron retort .
It was of course of a cylindrical shape ; its colour was pale ash-grey ; it was porous , semivitrified , and slightly cohering ; resembling coarse pumice , and floated on water .
But the circumstance to which I now allude is that it separated , when broken , into thin regular tables , precisely in the manner of madreporites , so that it might be considered as schistose pumice .
In this experiment , I gave to 480 grains of the coarsely powdered leek-green variety , a dull red heat for half an hour , in order to expel the water , as I had found that , with that degree of heat , the bitumen was not removed from the stone .
I then charged it into the glass retort , inserted in a crucible as before , and gave it a white heat .
No gas was generated , nor expelled , and the liquor in the receiver was pure bitumen .
It weighed 2,83 grains per cent. and was of a wine-yellow colour , and the smell the same as the last .
The neck of the 326 retort being thinner than the rest had fused , but fortunately not until the whole of the bitumen had come over .
The residuum was again a pumice , exactly the same as in the experiments with the iron retort .
Experiment 3 .
Slaty compact pitch-stone .
A green glass retort was again charged with the pitch-stone which I had been analysing , namely , the slaty compact ; but the neck of the retort , being thinner than the body , fused .
On examining the mass within the retort , a light-coloured pumice was found at the bottom , and a dark one at the top .
Experiment 4 .
loo grains of the slaty compact pitch-stone which I had been analysing , lost by ignition 8 , o per cent. : when fused it lost 0,5 more , and formed a light ash-grey glass .
Experiment 5 .
480 grains of the same were distilled after the water was expelled by ignition , and therefore the danger of decomposition removed , in an iron retort .
Bitumen came over , and the process appearing to be completed the receiver was removed , after which some more bitumen dropped from the retort .
The bitumen in the receiver smelt more of naptha than the former products , but that which dropped had the same smell of tobacco .
What was condensed in the receiver was very volatile , being driven from one end of the phial to the other , namely , by the heat of the hand .
The contents of the retort were a ' light pumice , as before .
07 Experiment 6 .
400 grains of disintegrated Newry pitch-stone which had lost 7,25 per cent. by a red heat , were distilled as usual ; 0,1 came over of bitumen , which had the smell and volatility of naptha .
Experiment 7 .
1oo grains in mass of Meissen pitch-stone ( the same as that which had been analysed by KLAPROTrH , and for which I was indebted to my friend Sir CHARLES GIESECKE , Professor of Mineralogy to the Royal Society of Dublin ) were ignited in a platina crucible .
The colour changed from oil-green to greenish white passing into greyish green ; it opened in the same manner as the compact Newry pitch-stone , showing a tendency to slate , the fissures being parallel ; fragments indeterminately angular and rhomboidal , and the lustre altered from resinous to waxy .
It was afterwards fused into a white enamel and lost 8 per cent. As KLAPROTH had lost 8,50 by simple ignition , I concluded , erroneously , that it contained no bitumen .
Experiment 8 .
400 grains of pitch-stone from Meissen were distilled as usual after ignition : a small quantity of bitumen came over which had the smell of naptha , and was more volatile than any of the former products .
The contents of the retort were fused intto a greyish white enamel .
Experiment 9 .
Having ignited 400 grains of Meissen pitch-stone , and afterwards distilled them in the usual manner , the receiver having $g28 been previously very accurately weighed , 0,5 grain of bitumen were obtained , equally as volatile as that procured in the last experiment .
The retort not having received so strong a heat as in the former experiments , only a slightly cohering perfectly white powder remained .
Experiment 1o .
On Arran pitch-stone .
I fused too grains of pitch-stone from the Island of Arran , in a platina crucible at a white heat ; it formed an ash-coloured glass , and lost 5 per cent. 4oo grains of the same stone were charged into a green glass retort , as in experiment No. 2 .
Water came over , and when the heat was increased , was followed by an oily substance ; but at the same moment the neck of the retort fused , as in experiment 3 , and the distillation ceased .
The receiver had acquired an additional weight of 16 grains , that is 4 per cent. It had the smell of the bitumen from the Newry pitchstone , but faint , and the quantity was too small to be separated .
On examining the fused retort , it appeared that , for the distance of an inch from the bottom , the colour of the stone had become , as in former experiments , of an ash-grey , and still " resembling pumice , but that the upper part was brown , as in experiment 3 ; so that it seemed as if the bitumen had risen from the more strongly heated part of the retort , and having been stopped in its progress by the fusing of the neck , had given to the upper part of the mass the same brown colour which I had observed when the whole stone had been originally ignited in an open crucible , as mentioned in the beginning of this paper .
... .
z:.s on 1i:oo grains of the brown part of the residuum of this pitchstone were then fused , as before , in a platina crucible , into a light.grey glass ; it lost one per cent. ; thus making up the 5 per cent. which had been the loss from the original fusion .
Experiment 1i 4o0 grains of Arran pitch-stone lost by ignition 4,5 per cent. ; and when distilled in the usua : manner in an iron retort , one grain was collected in the receiver , posseSsing a very peculiar smell .
The contents of : the retort were a perfect enamel .
The receiver was washed with sulphuric ether , which:was suffered to evaporate , anda ' ; s6ubstance remained oi thie glass pan , but too small in quantity to enable me to exailine it .
Experiment 12 .
Artificial pumice .
0 .
; -o grains of artificial pumice , which had been the result tofm:first and second experiment , were fused in a platina rucible into a greyish-white glass .
It lost nothing .
OBSERVATIONS .
` I shall , for the sake of distinctness , divide my remarks under heads , beginning with the analysis .
'Analysis .
: ; Having mistaken the bitumen which appeared so frequently i~ the , course of all my analyses of the stone , for manganese , and having found , I think , that inflammable substance* in the c. Meissen pitch-stonei , will'it b:e presumption to suspect that KLAPROTH made asimilar --istake ; and that the substance , which he does not : apprear to have examined , and which he acknowledges he did not weigh , was , in reality , bitumen- ?
This cannot affect the character of this admirable analyst , since there was nothing in the appearance or external characters of the Saxon mineralwhich could awaken a doubt on that subject ; whereas , the peculiar properties of the Newry pitch-stone , naturally , and early , arrested my attention , and would equally have engaged his , had it been submitted to him .
KLAPROTH'S assertion , however , that his pitch-stone contained manganese , Ainduced me to institute many experiments to obtain the same substance from mine , and in the course of them I had occasion to try the different methods of separating manganese from iron , recommended by HATCHETT and HERSCHEL .
I mixed perfectly 'itre oxides of each metal in ascertained proportions , and dissolved them together in mnuriatic acid , and I found they could:beperfectly separated by both methods .
I had , at first , some doubts as to HERSCHEL'S , but found that my failure had arisen from neglecting to stir the liquor during the precipitation of the iron .
In general , I think , the separation is more easy by HATCHETT'S mode , but , under some circumstances , HERSCHEL'S will be found preferable .
There is onte method of obtaining , in an analysis of a stone , the iron combined with the silica alone , and as muriatic acid easily separates them , it may sometimes be found useful .
The heat which decomposes muriate of iron leaving an insoluble oxide , does not 'decoiipose the earthy muriates i therefore , MI if the mass be dried on the sand bath at a heat below red .
ness , when it is afterwards diffused in water , the salts will be dissolved , and the iron and silica will be obtained on the filter .
With respect to the alkalies , the fusion with nitrate of barytes is a tedious process , and liable to loss from the frequent filtrations , and also from the necessity of evaporating off the sulphate of ammonia .
That of Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , by boracic acid , is much neater ; but , probably from want of analytical skill , I found it so difficult to get rid of the boracic acid , that I was not able to rely upon my result .
The new method , by lead , has its embarrassments also , particularly from the fusibility of the glass which acts upon platina , and penetrates clay crucibles .
There is also a good deal of difficulty in getting entirely rid of the lead .
The process by acids , where the nature of the stone will admit of it , is obviously the best ; and I tound that the nitric acid was to be preferred , as , by its peroxidizing the iron , and destroying the bitumen , those two troublesome substances were disposed of .
Bitumen .
It has appeared , from the foregoing analysis , that this substance may be obtained both in the usual mode of analysing , and by distillation of the stone , but quite pure only in the latter mode .
It seems to consist of two inflammable substances , the one much more volatile than the other , but both inseparable from the stone , except at a heat approaching , if not entirely amounting to , whiteness .
I imagine that it is in combination with the iron , as it seemed in general to accompany the solutions of that substance , and to modify the colour and magnetic properties of the metal .
It is necessary to observe that , unless the beak of the retort be kept almost at a red heat , as far as the mouth of the receiver , the whole of the bitumen will not be obtained .
This quality renders it easy , however , to ascertain the proportion in which it exists in the stone ; a heat of ignition expelling only the water , and the loss of weight by fusing after ignition , giving pretty exactly the quantity of this curious inflammable matter , which appears to vary considerably in the different specimens from the same vein .
I have not yet been able to examine it with sufficient accuracy , partly from want of time , and partly from the difficulty of analysing so small a portion of the substance as I have yet been able to collect .
I hope , however , to renew the investigation next winter .
If it should be found to be a new substance , I propose to call it newrine .
I should not be surprised , however , judging from the smell , and its being separable from water by evaporation , if it were found to contain nicotine in combination with naptha .
Pulnice .
The formation of this substance artificially , is rather an interesting circumstance , if it be new ; and may throw some light upon its natural formation .
That it is a perfect pumice , in appearance and qualities , what 1 have already mentioned puts almost out of doubt .
It has the colour , levity , and magnetic properties of the real pumice , and deceived artists to whom I presented it as such .
An eminent paper stainer , who is in the constant use of that artibe , ' and to whom I sent two pieces , desiring to know , from him , which of the two specimens was the best ; answered , that both were excellent , but that the lighter was the best .
He had no suspicion that they were an artificial product .
If the afialysis of pitch-stone and pumice be considered together , it willlbe found that the water , bitumen , and lime , in the former , are the substances which alter the per centage .
Hovw the lime was got rid of by the volcanic heat is not easilyaccounted for ; but it is conceivable that it may have been acted on by the muriatic acid funmes , which , we know , aceompany volcanic fires .
Besides , lime : may yet be found in some pumice , and none of that earth in some pitch-stones .
As yet , I believe , there have been but two pitch-stones , the Meissen and the Newry , analysed , and the former , only , by a chemist of authority .
It must be acknowledged , however , that it is difficult to imagine , on this hypothesis , how the alkali remained un-mruriated , while the lime united to the muriatic acid .
It appears to be a condition , in converting a stone into pumice , that it should contain a volatile substance , which can only be removed by the same degree of heat which is at the same time necessary for producing that sort of semi-vitrification in the mass which renders it coherent , hard , and porous , If a stonecontains only water , pumice is not formed , because that is driven off by a red heat , which does not act upon the earths of which the stone is composed .
Drive off the water at a red heat , and you have a harder but incoherent mass : increase the heat , and you have , as in the case of alumine , a more compact and denser substance , or ; else , when the ingredients of the stone favour vitrification , a glass .
I have made pumice in an openi crucible , and with theunpowdered stone , by watching the degree of heat .
fMagnetic properties .
A needle , drawn a little out of the direction.of the poles by a piece of iron , w.as : , drawn back by all the pitch-stones and by pumice , natural and artificial , The pumices , as well the natural as the artificial , and the latter , whether obtained by distillation in glass or iron , were attracted , when in powder , by the magnet ; but the magnet did not act on any of the pitch-stones under any circumstances .
RESULT .
If the foregoing -analysis is correct , that variety of : the Newry pitch-stone whhih I examined contains in one hundred parts , Silica ... .
72,800 Alumine. .
11,5oo0 Lime - ... .
, l Protoxide of iron .
3,036 Soda .
, 2,857 Water and bitumen 8,5oo 99,813 The Newry pitch-stone is a marked variety of that substance .
It exists in various forms , and the bitumen in various proportions in the same vein .
It contains , as far as at present appears , a peculiar bitumen .
That bitumen exists in the Newry pitch-stone in a larger proportion than in any substance of that class hitherto examined .
The darker specimens appear to contain riost bitumen , nearly g per cent. The bitumen , as well as the soda , can be separated from the stone by the action of nitric and muriatic acid , but the bitumen not in a state of purity .
The bitumen can be obtained pure by distillation from the stone by means of a heat nearly approaching to whiteness .
It can be separated from water by evaporation .
The Newry pitch-stone is converted into pumice when properly distilled .
It is magnetic , but not so much so as its pumice .
It is not electric , either by heat or friction , neither is its pumice .
It probably owes its smell , slatiness , and disposition to disintegrate , to the bitumen .
The bitumen probably modifies its colour also .
The Newry stone agrees , as to its ingredients , with the Saxon pitch-stone from Meissen ; but they differ somewhat in their relative proportions , and particularly in the quantity of bituminous matter .
The Arran pitch-stone seems also to contain bitumen ; but on this point I cannot yet form a decided opinion .
I had begun a course of experiments on other substances , namely , green-stone , basalt , obsidian , &amp;c. , but I have been obliged to discontinue them for the present .
I cannot however abstain from mentioning one experiment which failed , as it was attended by a arcumstance which gives it some interest , I ignited 400 grains of green-stone , which lost5 grains ; and charged it into an iron retort as usual .
The receiver increased o,2 in weight , and there was no smell .
On examining the contents of the retort after the distillation , I found that the powdered stone had been converted at the bottom into a vesicular glass , and at the top into a pumice , but that a hole had opened in the upper part of the neck of the retort .
It seemed therefore that , in the first place , most of the volatile matter must have escaped , whatever that volatile substance may have been , through the hole , but that the temperature having been lowered in its vicinity by the admission of air , the formation of glass was checked as far as that influence extended , and the result was pumice .
Why the glass was vesicular and not compact , I shall leave to conjecture .
It is probable that farther experiments may elucidate that point .
NOTE .
To assist in forming a judgment whether manganese really existed or not in the Meissen pitch-stone , to ioo grains of the pulverised stone was added o,1 of oxide of manganese , and fused .
The colour was whitish , as before , but as the great heat necessary to fuse the substance might have discoloured the manganese , the following experiments were made .
To 99,9 grains of pure white glass , o,1 of black oxide of manganese was added .
It fused into a violet-coloured glass ; but when the heat was increased the colour was removed .
To try , therefore , whether a violet glass might be produced from a fusion at a lower temperature of the Meissen pitch-stone , it was first fused with borax by the blow-pipe : no trace of a violet-colour appeared , but , when afterwards fused by the blow-pipe with o , i addition of black oxide of manganese , the colour produced was a violet .

