III .
An Account of a Pin taken out of the Bladder of a Child , by Mr. William Gregory , Surgeon ; communicated in a Letter to Sir Hans Sloane , Bart. Pr .
R. S. Brompton near Chatham , Jan 4 .
1733-4 .
I Was called to the Assistance of a Woman in Travail .
The Faetus presented in a transverse Position ; I soon recovered the Feet , and in a few Minutes delivered the Woman .
The Funiculus Umbilicalis was so short , that it was with Difficulty I could make a Ligature upon it , in order to make a Separation : I immediately extracted the Secundine , and measured the Funiculus , which was little more than four Inches long .
As soon as the Woman was taken care of , I examined the Child , which I found to be imperfect in several Parts , there being no Anus , neither Privities to distinguish of what Sex it was : Where the Vulva should be , there was a small Perforation , ( though no Appearance of Labia ) through which the Urine always passed away ; there was likewise a large Hernia Umbilicalis , and a little lower in the Linea alba , was a Perforation , into which the Intestinum rectum opened , and there the Excrements passed during the time the Child lived , which was almost ten Weeks .
Several Days before the Child died , a Gangrene appeared on the Hernia , which soon passed into the Intestines , and occasioned the Child 's Death : The Hernia , in my Opinion , was occasioned by the Shortness of the Funiculus , which did not grow in Length proportionable to the Faetus ; the Child in all other Parts was perfect .
When the Child died , I had Liberty from the Parents to inspect into it : I did not go through a regular Dissection ; I only inspected into the Intestinum rectum , ( which I found as above described ) and the urinary Bladder , which I found very small , and no Urine in it ; the Child was never observed to make Water in a Stream whilst it lived , which makes me of Opinion , the Sphincter Vesicae was imperfect .
In handling the Bladder , I found something sharp pointing to my Finger ; I could not discover what it was , until I snip 'd off the Neck of the Bladder : I then took out of the Bladder a tough kind of Substance , about as big as a small Fig , in which was a Pin with the Head on , and very black ; the urinary Bladder , Pin , and viscid Substance , ( though now somewhat wasted ) are here preserved in Sp. Vin .
R. The Case , in my Opinion , being very extraordinary , occasioned my giving the above Account of it , which I declare to be Truth , having opened the Child in the Presence of several Spectators .
Witness my Hand ,

