1^8 Dr. J. Beard .
[ May 16 , and blood ; the general symptoms being , first , a great fall of the body temperature , and a condition of stupor , ending in death .
3 .
The activity of both these proteids is destroyed by moist heat .
In solution the activity of the globulin is destroyed at between 75 ' and 80 ' C. , and that of the albumose between 80 ' and 85 ' 0 .
4 .
That abrus-poison resembles snake-venom in chemical composition , in the local lesions produced , in producing a fair of body temperature , in causing semi-fluidity or fluidity of the blood after death , and , to some extent , in the effect of moist heat on it .
Abrus-poison is , however , much less active than snake-venom .
The following table shows a comparison between the activity of the venom of various snakes and of Abrus :\#151 ; Vipera berus ( common adder). .
Fatal dose in man 0 0021 gram per kilo , of body weight ( Fontana).* Eoplocephalus curtus ( Austra-. .
Fatal dose in dog , 0-00485 gram per kilo , of body lian tiger snake)+ weight ; i a grain in medium size dog ( 15 lbs. ) .
Cobra ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .Fatal dose in dog , 0-000079 gram per kilo , of body weight ; -\#177 ; 3 grain in dog weighing 18 lbs. ( Vincent Richards).$ Abrus-poison : Globulin ... ... ... ... ... ... Fatal dose , 0"01 gram per kilo , of body weight .
Albumose ... ... ... ... ... ... Fatal dose , 0*06 gram per kilo , of body weight .
Peptic albumoses ... ... .
Fatal dose in dog , any dose oyer 0*3 gram per kilo .
of body weight ( Pollitzer).S IY .
" On the Early Development of Lepidosteus osseus .
\#151 ; Preliminary Notice .
" By J. Beard , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , Zoologist to the Scottish Fishery Board , Edinburgh .
Communicated by Professor T. H. Huxley , F.R.S. Received April* 20 , 1889 .
* In the spring of 1888 I journeyed to North America for the purpose of collecting material for a study of Ganoid development .
I sought and found even more material than I wanted in the now well-known habitat of Lepidosteus , Black Lake , N.Y. No better hunting-ground could be wished for by the morphologist in search of Ganoid material .
The lake contains , multitudes of , and ( it is said ) sturgeons .
One need not be at much trouble in seeking sturgeons , for the River St. Lawrence , which flows within 12 miles of Black Lake , will vie with any Russian river .
I made the * Quoted in Marx , * Gift-Lehre , ' vol. 2 , p. 74 .
" Report of Special Commission on Snake-poisoning .
" 'Australian Med. Journal , ' 1876 , No. 21 , p. 104 .
J ' Landmarks of Snake-poison Literature .
' S ' Journal of Physiology , ' 1886 .
1889 .
] On the Early Development of Lepidosteus osseus .
109 acquaintance of fishermen on the St. Lawrence who assured me , and I often verified the fact with my own eyes , that each one of them catches from 60 to 70 sturgeons per week .
Many attempts were made to fertilise sturgeon eggs , hut all were unsuccessful , probably the season was too early .
Lepidosteus material was fairly easily obtained , and a large collection of embryos and many adult fishes were secured .
I owe my thanks to the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , for the substantial grant which enabled me to defray the cost of collection , \amp ; c. , of the material used in the following investigations .
Tt is proposed to give an outline of the development of Lepidosteus during the first three weeks of its life ; by the end of this time pretty nearly all the organs are developed , and the larva has acquired many of the adult characteristics .
The early development , that of the first four days , is very difficult of investigation , far more so than that of Amphibia and Marsipohranchii .
The reason of this lies with the yolk , for that outside the embryo gives rise to technical difficulties , while that which fills all the cells renders everything blurred and indistinct .
Fortunately , much can be made out by means of surface views , and these help very materially in rendering an interpretation of the sections possible .
The Egg.\#151 ; I have little to add to Balfour and Parker 's account .
As they state the ripe eggs are spherical bodies of 3 mm. in diameter .
The egg-shell is composed of two parts : ( 1 ) externally a layer of pyriform bodies , and within it ( 2 ) a zona radiata .
No micropyle could be detected .
The pyriform bodies are certainly modified cells , each with the remains of a nucleus at its outer end .
These modified cells have degenerated into a sort of glue , which causes the excessive stickiness of the newly laid eggs.* Such a layer , though less developed than here , is characteristic of the eggs of sturgeons and Petromyzon .
In the ovarian egg these " pyriform bodies " are probably nutritive cells to the ovum , for their outer ends near the nuclei contain a number of minute yolk particles .
The inner egg membrane is not composed of two layers either in Lepidosteus or in the sturgeon .
It is a simple zona radiata , the striae reaching to the innermost portions of the membrane .
The division into two layers , sometimes seen , is the optical effect of thick sections .
Within lies the egg proper .
It consists of an outer protoplasmic , layer containing small yolk particles , and a central yolk mass , free from protoplasm , and made up of much larger yolk plates .
There is a large germinal vesicle with membrane , the vesicle containing a rather large number of chromatin bodies .
* In alkalies , baryta , and lime-water the egg-shell swells up , and the two latter reagents are valuable allies in getting rid of the egg membranes in young stages .
Dr. J. Beard .
[ May 16 , When the egg is ripe , the germinal vesicle lies just under the shell in a protoplasmic mass , which is permeated by very small yolk particles .
The sturgeon egg has a very similar structure , but the yolk elements ar8 much finer .
The males are on the average only half the size of the females , and are very much more numerous than the latter , as others have noted .
The spawning takes place between May 20th and the middle of June .
Some of the inhabitants of the shores of Black Lake have seen it taking place in July .
This appears to me very likely .
The fishes only spawn on warm windless days , and if cold weather comes , they may remain away from the " points " for weeks , as Garman already noted .
I observed the spawning on three occasions , on May 24th , June 8th and 9th .
In the interval no eggs were laid , though search was made for eggS and fishes every day by my assistants or myself .
The spawning takes place during the heat of the day , between 12 and 3 o'clock .
A full account of it has been already given by Agassiz , and quoted by Balfour and Parker .
The eggs are thickly sown , and cling to the small stones which lie about in the shallow water of the " points .
" Certain spots seem to be traditional egg-laying grounds for osteus .
The eggs are pretty easily removed from the stones , and my own were hatched out in a Californian salmon hatching apparatus .
Most of the eggs left on the stones fell a prey to fungi , and very few indeed hatched out .
With care and constant attention a much greater percentage can be hatched out in the apparatus .
The difficulties of the investigation prevented the observation of the forr mation of polar bodies .
The segmentation is very rapid , and a cap of small cells is formed in the course of five or six hours .
The segmentation is very unequal but in a sense complete .
Eight *furrows can be traced to the centre of the lower pole .
The attempt to segment the lower hemisphere is , however , soon given up , none of the eight furrows penetrate very deeply into the yolk , and none reach the centre by a long way .
They are only superficial furrows .
The cell cap of the upper pole increases rapidly by divisions within itself , and by the addition of fresh segments from the incomplete segments below its margin .
It grovra over the yolk , and in the course of 24 hours or less completely encloses the latter .
A beautiful circular blastopore is formed , from which a yolk-plug projects as in Amphibia .
Before the close of the blastopore , the region of the future embryo is marked out by a blastodermic thickening , extending forwards from the edge of the blastopore .
A groove marking the axis of the embryo soon appears in this thickening .
It must be remarked that this groove appears only just before the closure of the blastopore , and hence it cannot in Lepidosteus be regarded as part of the latter .
1889 .
] On the Early Development of Lepidosteus osseus .
Ill The blastopoi'e closes on the second day , and at no time is a canalis neurentericus formed .
The embryo becomes more and more distinctly marked out , and the nervous system is differentiated .
By-and-bye the embryo gets raised above the level of the blastoderm , and a solid tail-bud is very early rounded off above what was the anterior margin of the blastopore .
The mesoderm or mesohlastarises very early , and before the close of the blaslopore .
If embryologists have not yet agreed as to its mode of origin in the chick , how can one hope to settle this question in the difficult material of Lepidosteus ?
It appears to me to arise from the epiblast on each side of the middle line , and from the epiblastic region at the lip of the blastopore .
I make these statements with the utmost diffidence .
Apart from its medium thickening , the epiblast is very early divided into two layers .
The outer or covering layer ( Deckschicht of the German authors ) takes no share in organ formation at all .
It covers the embryo everywhere , but no organs are formed from it .
It may , perhaps , be compared to the skin of a larval Annelid .
The inner layer may be spoken of as the formative epiblast .
The hypoblast has only a dorsal or neural extension , the ventral side of the embryo being occupied by yTolk .
Epiblastic Organs .
Nervous System.\#151 ; This is formed solely out of the formative epiblast , though it must be noted that the outer layer is often grooved in the middle line .
It may be regarded as a folded plate of epiblast , which sinks below the rest of the formative epiblast , and it differs solely in its mode of formation from the nervous systems of Elasmobranchii and Amphioxus in that the folds are closely applied to each other , and only separate later on in development .
The brain vesicles can soon be distinguished , and in later stages a similar apparent segmentation can be traced for some distance along the spinal cord .
The nervous system becomes hollowed out by the separation of its walls from each other .
The optic vesicles arise as a pair of hollow evaginations of the fore-brain .
The lens also is a product of the formative epiblast .
In the central nervous system two structures are very early distinguishable :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The transient giant ganglion cells in the spinal cord ; these are described in a separate section ( p. 117 ) .
( 2 .
) The ciliated groove which I have elsewhere described as forming the floor of the primitive central canal .
It persists in the adult , and there also forms only the floor of the central canal as in sharks and elsewhere .
The Brain.\#151 ; The fore-brain roof in embryo and adult is very thin , Dr. J. Beard .
[ May 16 , non-nervous , and epithelial in character , as in Marsipobranchs , Teleostei , and other Ganoids ( Acipenser , and Amia ) .
The nervous elements of the fore-brain are represented by thick ?
basal and lateral structures of a solid nature , forming the so-called I " corpora striata .
" To what extent they are homologous with corpora striata shall be discussed in my full paper .
To my mind there appears to be no evidence to show that the fore-brain region of I Marsipobranchii , Teleostei , or Ganoidei is a degenerate structure .
} The pineal gland and the nervous part of the pituitary body or hypophysis cerebri have the usual mode of formation .
In the adult , the pineal body arises by a hollow stalk from the roof of the thalamencephalon , and it proceeds forwards over the epithelial roof of the fore-brain , ending in a large simple flattened vesicle .
This f vesicle has a striking resemblance in structure to the same organ in } Myxine .
It lies in a mass of adenoid tissue , which , however , is no part of the pineal body .
Waldschmidt 's statements under this head in Polypterus will require modification .
The first development of the oral part of the hypophysis cerebri is difficult of investigation , on account of the distortion produced by the developing suckers .
It arises as a medium solid ingrowth 1 of the formative epiblast , slightly in front of , or almost within , the mouth involution .
Its direction is towards the infundibulum and the end of the notochord .
It does not become hollowed out as in many other forms .
In the adult the hypophysis cerebri possesses a more complicated structure than the same organ in Polypterus , containing as it does glandular epithelium , lymphoid tissue , and degenerated nerve-cells .
Its duct does not persist as in Polypterus .
Regarding the spinal cord , only one further remark need be made , that is , that behind the anus it is for some time solid .
The Nerves , Ganglia , and Peripheral Sense Organs .
As Balfour and Parker state , the nose is formed as an invagination of a certain portion of the formative epiblast .
This is not remarkable when we remember that no organs are formed from the outermost layer .
The ear arises in the same way .
The otoliths of Lepidosteus and Salmo are formed similarly to the otoliths of Invertebrates .
Certain cells of the lining of the auditory vesicle become freed from the epithelium , and lie loosely in the auditory cavity .
They acquire a position in rows just over the sensory hairs .
The cells become calcified , and their nuclei disappear .
The otoliths are probably formed by the fusion of- a number of these calcified bodies .
* 1889 .
] On the Early Development of Lepidosteus osseus .
113 The lateral or branchial sense organs are also products of the formative epiblast .
The cranial and spinal ganglia are formed as recently described by me in sharks and birds .
In the month involution also the formative epiblast is alone concerned , the covering layer passes over from the anterior end of the head to the yolk sac .
The mouth breaks through about the fourth day .
The anus arises as a solid ingrowth of the formative epiblast in the place where the blastopore once existed .
The Larval Suckers.\#151 ; These organs also are products of the inner or formative epiblast .
They are developed very early , and commence to be differentiated about the third day of egg development .
They are formed as a number of closed spherical sacs , one part of the wall being thin , and this part is ruptured when they break through the skin a day or two before hatching .
One of these sacs is median , and arises almost within the mouth involution .
It could almost be mistaken for the developing hypophysis , were it not for its subsequent fate and for the fact that it is directed forwards .
When it breaks through the skin it forms a flat glandular plate on the roof of the mouth .
From its position it can hardly be of much use as a sucker .
The functional suckers are composed of two sorts of cells : ( 1 ) Long glandular cells with hyaline slightly granular contents and nucleus lying near the inner end of the cell .
Between these ( 2 ) supporting cells with nucleus in the middle of the cell .
Each glandular sucker has the structure of and is probably serially homologous with the suckers of larval Anurous Amphibia .
During the period at which they lie beneath the covering epiblast , and for a short time after , the arrangement of the suckers is distinctly bilateral .
The median one appears to be unpaired at all stages .
They form a complete circlet on the disk , with additional suckers within the circle .
On the whole , the organ may be said to be composed of twro fused circlets of suckers .
Balfour and Parker noticed the numerous vascular channels in the mesoblast just inside the suckers .
The young Lepidosteus I possessed did not make use of the suckers for several days after hatching.* The suckers commence to degenerate when the young fishes are about three weeks old .
The pad at the end of the adult snout occupies the position of , but cannot be considered as arising from , the larval suckers .
The latter are transient organs .
Hypoblaslic Organs.\#151 ; The origin of the notochord is not yet clear to me , for it arises during an epoch in which the processes of development ai'e difficult of interpretation on account of the yolk .
There is at first a solid oesophagus , as Balfour and Parker state , and the posterior gill clefts arise as solid evaginations from it .
The * The first batch of egg3 hatched on the ninth day , the second on the seventh .
VOL. XLVI .
I Dr. J. Beard .
[ May 16 , spiracular cleft or rather its rudiment is a very early formation , being developed long before hatching .
The evagination to form it reaches the formative epiblast and fuses with it , this fusion persisting for a long time , but at no time can a lumen opening on the exterior be detected .
As Wright has shown , a part of the spiracular cleft persists in the adult in the form of a canal leading upwards and forwards into the region of the periotic capsule .
The first branchial cleft is formed long before the others and before hatching .
In newly hatched larvae it has a wide opening on to the exterior .
This opening soon becomes apparently less by the growth of the operculum .
The pneumatoctele arises at a very early period and long before hatching .
It is a fold of the neural median hypoblast , and grows backwards in length apart from connexion with the alimentary canal .
For some time the ventral part of the alimentary canal is only filled in by yolk , by-and-bye the gut becomes shut in by ingrowths from the sides in the manner suspected by Balfour and Parker .
The somites , like the mesoblast from which they are formed , are at first solid : they are long and narrow .
As is usual , their mode of formation is from before backwards ; but in front of the first one formed , two others appear later on just behind the auditory capsule .
These latter are , as their fate shows , the two anterior somites of the hypoglossus .
Regarding head-somites , I prefer at present to say nothing .
The inner wall of the somites gives rise to muscle , and most of the outer wall is converted into pigmented connective tissue .
Th6 somites become much elongated , and their ends are constricted off as buds to form the musculature of the paired and unpaired limbs .
Each end of each somite constricts off a single bud , which only divides into two at a later stage than the twenty-first day .
The posterior paired fins only begin to develop towards the end of the third week , and the muscle buds of the unpaired fins remain in an embryonic condition beyond this period .
Urinogenital System.\#151 ; To form the pronephros there is a solid evagination of the mesoblast , uniting the somites with the somatopleure and splanchnopleure .
This arises early on the third day , and reaches from the 4th to 8th or 9th somites inclusive .
This probably fuses with the epiblast , and at any rate a solid segmental duct is formed\#151 ; probably from the inner epiblast layer .
This grows gradually backwards , having at first an indistinct form of termination , finally it reaches the proctodseum , and becomes fused with it .
After this stage , two additional mesoblastic somites are formed behind the auditory vesicle .
Then the first three somites behind the ear are those of the hypoglossus , and , as van Wijhe has determined 1889 .
] On the Early Development of Lepidostens osseus .
115 in Elasmobranchii , the pronephros begins at the third definite body-somite , or , counting the three hypoglossus somites , at the sixth .
Its extension backwards varies , but the region of three somites is always concerned in its formation .
It may extend at first over five or six somites , but the part beyond the anterior three soon aborts .
In some cases it has a greater extension on one side of the body than on the other .
Three funnels seem , as a rule , to be formed on each side of the body , but the most posterior of these disappear , two pairs being left .
These persist throughout the larval period .
The ciliated openings into the body-cavity become narrowed .
By this narrowing of the opening , and the widening of the part opposite to the glomerulus , the pronephric chamber described by Balfour and Parker arises .
It need scarcely be remarked that there are two of these " chambers " on each side .
Even when the mesonephros is in course of development , i.e. , from the 16th to the 18th day , the two funnels on each side still persist and are quite distinct .
As just stated , the mesonephros arises between the 16th and 18th day .
The date of its development seems to be variable .
Its tubes are formed in the angle of the body-cavity between the region of the segmental duct and the genital ridge ; the latter is at this period part of the mesentery of the alimentary canal .
One notices that the cells of this region of the coelom are filled with yolk .
These yolk-filled cells give rise to the mesonephros and the genital glands .
The storing-up of yolk reminds one of Dohrn 's discovery of yolk-laden cells in the head-somites of Ammocc i.e. , in those structures which at a much later period form the eye-muscles of the Petromyzon .
At the 16th day the somites have been almost entirely converted into muscle and connective tissue , and in Lepidosteus the mesonephros can neither be derived from the part connecting the somites and body-cavity together , as in Elasmobranchs and birds ( Sedgwick ; van Wijhe ) , nor from part of the somites ( nephrotome of Riickert ) .
There is here no intermediate cell-mass as in the chick , but the mesonephric tubules arise as distinct segmental evaginations of the wall of the body-cavity at the point indicated above .
They grow over the segmental duct in a curved fashion , and open into it by piercing through its wall .
Such is the brief account of the early development of Lepidosteus which I feel at present in a position to give , and I close this communication with a notice of\#151 ; A Transient or Larval Nervous Apparatus in Lepidosteus and certain other Ichthyopsida .
In the course of my investigations I noticed the very frequent occurrence of " giant ganglion cells " in a particular situation along Dr. J. Beard .
[ May 16 , the whole length of the spinal cord of and certain other fish embryos .
So little had hitherto been published about their occurrence in different groups of fishes , that a comparative investigation of the matter seemed desirable ; all the more , as I soon arrived at conclusions as to their meaning and fate very different from those of Dr. Paul Mayer , the only author who has paid much attention to such cells ( in the Scylliidae ) .
In all cases these giant ganglion cells occupy the same typical position in the extreme dorsal or neural border of the spinal cord .
They are found in very young embryos in nearly every transverse section through the region of the spinal cord .
Very often a pair , one on each side of the middle line , is met with in a single section .
To obtain a clear insight into their distribution horizontal longitudinal sections are necessary .
When the sections of such a series are examined , one notices that the first sections which pass through the dorsal or neural limit of the spinal cord , contain a large number of rather large ganglion cells , and it can easily be verified that the roof of the spinal cord along its whole length is composed of similar cells , which form a double row reaching from the termination of the hind-brain to the posterior limit of the central nervous system .
Their occurrence in the brain region proper is very doubtful ; as they appear to extend forwards only as far as the anterior boundary of the hypoglossus region .
That is , in early stages they can be traced as far as those somites which belong to the hypoglossus .
They are the first cells in the embryo which develop ganglionic characters , and they are fully developed in young embryos long before the remaining cells of the nervous system become ganglionic .
The cells are multipolar ; and in some cases processes can be seen passing from them into the developing spinal cord , but I cannot say how they are connected with other nervous elements .
Possibly they are paired ; at any rate , in many cases they are bilaterally arranged , and in the region of each mesoblastic somite in the different fishes to be presently mentioned from four to eight pairs of such cells occur .
The exact number can only be determined by means of reconstructions of embryos .
There is probably a .
defined number of them in every embryo of each species , and this number must be several hundred .
The most remarkable circumstance is their fate , which I have so far fully determined in Scyllium , Prist turns , and Triton .
On the Formation of the Permanent Central Canal of the Spinal Cord .
These Ganglion Cells are all shut out of the Central Nervous System .
Their processes are either withdrawn or cut off , more probably the latter , and their poles now present a curious stumpy appearance .
The 1889 .
] On the Early Development of Lepidosteus osseus .
117 cells persist for a long1 time , lying outside the cord , and on its dorsal or neural surface , just over the posterior fissure .
Gradually they undergo a series of degenerative changes .
The stumpy processes vanish ; the cells shrink , and so get smaller .
Finally , they become glassy , having lost all traces of nucleus and nucleolus , and disappear .
In fact , the series of changes undergone by these cells corresponds exactly to that degeneration and death of nerve-cells , which the pathologists term simple atrophy ( einfacheAtrophie , see Ziegler 's 1 Pathologische Anatomy , ' 3te Auflage , 2ter Theil , pp. 603\#151 ; 606 ) .
Though the presence of giant ganglion cells in the embryos of certain Scylliidse was known , * till now we had no idea of their distribution over the whole spinal cord as stated above .
Like Dr. Mayer , I find them in Scyllium and Pristiurus , in both of which forms they are exceedingly large , numerous , and well developed .
Along with Mayer I failed to detect them in Torpedo , but met with them in Raja .
I also miss them in Acanthias , but in Mustelus , where as a normal thing they do not develop , one may find about a dozen of them well developed in a single embryo , but then in abnormal situations , lying free in the formative tissue of the mesoblast , and outside the central nervous system .
They are very obvious in 10 millimetre embryos of and may easily be detected in Labrax , and Rhodeus embryos of the proper age .
They are very numerous in newly hatched Lepidosteus .
Only with difficulty can they be demonstrated in young Petromyzon embryos , on account of the yolk filling the cells , but they are certainly present in this form .
At present I do not possess sufficient material to follow their fate in Petromyzon , but doubtless it is the same as in the three groups represented by Scyllium , SulmoA and Lepidosteus .
In Raja , Labrax , Esox , and Rhodeus , I have not followed all stages of their degeneration , but I have studied this sufficiently to be sure that their fate is that of the ganglion cells in the groups just mentioned .
They may be found in larvae of Rana and Triton , and in the latter form they have the usual fate\#151 ; that I have determined .
It is very significant to notice that the forms in which they normally occur are , without exception , oviparous .
The abnormal occurrence of a dozen or so giant ganglion cells in Mustelus and their presence in Raja , coupled with their absence in Torpedo , are interesting facts , which point to the conclusion that the viviparous Elasmobranchii once possessed them as a normal development .
The giant ganglion cells which occur in adult Amphioxus and * Paul Mayer : " Die Unpaaren Flossen der Selachier .
" ' Mittbeilungen Zool. Stat. Neapel , ' vol. 6 , pp. 228\#151 ; 229 .
f They probably occur in nearly all Teleostei .
According to Eisig they have been seen by P. Mayer in many marine forms belonging to this group .
Mr. E. H. Acton .
Assimilation of [ May 16 , Petromyzon appear to have no homology with these larval ganglion cells.* The proof of this statement is impossible without figures .
I hope to show , in a fuller paper on the early development of the central nervous system , that in giaut ganglion cells are developed in deeper portions of the spinal cord , and that these cells have exactly the situation and characters of the well-known giant ganglion cells of Amphioxus.f In the same sections of Scyllium embryos the two sorts of cells can be seen ; the one deeply situated in the cord , and with well developed processes , the other outside the nervous system , and greatly degenerated .
I will here only remark that I cannot support Mayer 's conclusions^ as to the fate of these giant ganglion cells , and defer a discussion of his views until I have followed the history of these cells in Petromyzon .
1 may here point out , however , that KleinenbergS appears to me to have been quite right when he suspected that the cells described by Mayer might be analogous to certain sub-umbrellar ganglion cells in the larva of Lopadorhynchus , which " introduce " the development of the ventral cord : and that , just as in the Annelid , the development of the vertebrate central nervous system would appear to have been initiated by a larval nervous apparatus outside the same .
I propose to discuss this question in a future paper .
Y. " The Assimilation of Carbon by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
" By E. Hamilton Acton , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received April 20 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) The recent synthesis of a true glucose ( " Acrose " )|| by Fischer and Tafel , and additions to our knowledge of the structure of dextrose and kevulose by Kiliani , ^[ \amp ; o. , seem to render desirable fresh experiments on the synthetical production of carbohydrate in green plants from sources other than C03 ( i.e. , from organic compounds in which C is already combined with H and 0 ) .
* The homology of the giant ganglion cells described by Fritsch in is doubtful .
f Vide the excellent figure ( fig. 143 ) in Hatschek 's * Lehrbuch der Zoologie , ' p. 138 .
Probably Amphioxus possesses a transient or larval nervous apparatus .
X Op. oit .
, p. 229 .
S N. Kleinenberg : " Die Entstehung des Annelids aus der Larve von Lopadorhynchus .
" ' Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 44 , pp. 220\#151 ; 221 .
|| * Deutsch .
Ohem .
G-es.- Berichte , ' vol. 20 , pp. 1088 , 2566 , 3384 .
IT Ibid. , vol. 19 , p. 221 .

