]\gt ; On the other hand , the loss of pressure ( at the surface ) due to height , and therefore the total gain of pressure over the undisturbed parts is If , now , the ratio be small , the coefficient of becomes and we conclude that the condition of a free surface is satisfied , provided .
This determines the rate of flow , in order that a stationary wave may be possible , and gives , of course , at the same time the velocity of a wave in still water .
Unless can be neglected , it is impossible to satisfy the condition of a free surface for a stationary long wave\mdash ; which is the same as saying that it is impossible for a long wave of finite height to be propagated in still water without change of type .
Although a constant gravity is not adequate to compensate the changes of pressure due to acceleration and retardation in a long wave of finite height , it is evident that complete compensation is attainable if gravity be made a suitable function of height ; and it is worth while to enquire what the law of force must be in order that long waves of unlimited height may , to the undisturbed water lying beyond it on the sides , and it is implied that the uniform levels on the two sides are the same .
But the theory of long waves is not thus limited , and we may apply it to the case where the uniform levels on the two sides of the variable region are different , as , for : example , to bores .
This is a problem which I considered briefly on a former occasion , when it appeared that the condition of conservation of energy loss onergy aterm wmitted , rendering tesult erroneous , althoughcould natisfied wconstant gravity Balculation ohethe general conclusions affected.rror became apparent i epth.before proceeding tation oying tethod bove considered ogravity varying aocity aeight which matisfied iprogressive wwhetherenergy , ised fation between oint ( reckoned rarts.side thewave)evati.isor nermanentIf tositi.sive wation between tScientific P ( 11 ) gives as the velocity of a crest , ( 15 ) which is independent of , thus confirming what was found before for this law of force .
As regards the question of a bore , we consider it as the from a uniform velocity and depth to a uniform velocity and depth being greater than .
The first relation between these four quantities is that given by continuity , viz. , The second relation arises from a consideration of momentum .
It may be convenient to take first the usual case of a constant gravity .
The mean pressures at the two sections are , and thus the equation of momentum is .
( 17 ) By these equations and are determined in terms of :\mdash ; We have now to consider the question of energy .
The difference of work

