Philosoph. Transact. N.442 .
YXi N Fig. 3 .
Q R L D Fig. 4 .
C P S Fig. 2 .
V T d c Fig. 5 .
k Fig. 1 .
AB OF GH ab M of l gh IK I. A Catoptric Microscope .
By Robert Barker , M. D. F. R S. THOUGH Microscopes , composed of Refracting Glasses only , have been vastly improved , as to their Effects of magnifying ; yet they have been attended with such great Inconveniences , that their Application to many Arts , in which they might be very convenient , is not so common as might be expected , and Mankind have reaped but a small Part of the Advantage obtainable from so surprising and useful an Instrument .
Among the Inconveniences mentioned , these are the most considerable : 1 .
That in order to magnify greatly , it 's necessary the Object-Glass be a Portion of a very minute Sphere , whose Focus being very short , the Object must be brought exceeding near ; it will therefore be shaded by the Microscope , and not visible by any other Light than what passes through itself ; in this Case therefore , Opake Objects will not be seen at all .
2 .
Objects illuminated this way , may be rather said to eclipse the Light , than to be truly seen , little more being exactly represented to the Eye , than the Out-line ; the Depressions and Elevations within the Out-line appearing like so many Lights and Shades , according to their different Degree of Thickness or Transparency ; though the contrary happens in ordinary Vision , in which the Lights and Shades are produced by the different Exposure of the Surface of the Body to the incident Light .
3 .
Small Parts of large Objects cannot easily be applied to the Microscope , without being divided from their Wholes , which in the Case of Vivi section defeats the Experiment , the Part dying , and no more Motion being observed therein .
4 .
The Focus in the Dioptric Microscope being so very short , is exceeding nice , the least Deviation from it rendring Vision turbid ; therefore a very small Part of an Irregular Object can be seen distinctly this way .
To remedy these Defects I have contrived a Microscope on the Model of the Newtonian Telescope , in which I have been greatly assisted by that excellent Workman , Mr. Scarlet , jun .
I shall say nothing of the Effects of this Instrument , excepting that it magnifies from the Distance of 9 to 24 Inches , having the Honour of showing this Instrument to this learned Society .
Explanation of the Figures .
Fig. 1 .
The entire Microscope mounted on its Pedestal , on a proper Joint , contrived so as to direct the Instrument , towards any Object .
Fig. 2 .
The Section of the Instrument , in which AB is the larger concave metalline Speculum , CD the lesser Concave metalline Speculum ; EFa hollow Brass Screw to fasten in the 1 st Dioptrical Glass , or Plano-convex Lens ; GH another Screw fastening on the hollowCylinder EFIK ( in which theDioptric Glasses are contained ) to the Body of the Microscope ; IKa Cap with a small Perforation , serving as an Aperture to the Eye-Glass , or 2d Lens ( convex on both Sides ) ; ML is a long Screw passing through the Nuts P and V , serving to bring the small Speculum to a proper Distance from the larger ; NQa sliding Piece moved by the Screw , carrying the Stem Q R , and little Speculum C D ; YX a Screw for the Cap at Fig. 3 ; that at Fig. 4 , is to be serewed on the Aperture I K. Fig. 5 .
Shows the Construction of the Microscope , in which i is an Object supposed erect ; from which Rays falling on the Speculum a b , will be reflected to the Focus k , where they will form an inverted Image , and being reflected by the small Speculum c d , they will pass through the Perforation of the great Speculum , and falling on the Plano - convex Glass e f , converge again , and form an erect Image at l ; which being brought very near to the Eye , and so considerably magnified , will be distinctly seen through the Eye-Glass g h.

