423 The Extinct Birds of Rodriguez.*\#151 ; Dr. , and Edward Newton , G.M M.A. , ( Plates XLI.-XLIII .
) The following notes are the results of our examination of two sets of materials , one collected by Mr. H. H. Slater , one of the naturalists of the Transit of Venus Expedition , the other obtained previously by Mr. George Jenner when magistrate of Rodriguez .
The majority of the remains brought home by Mr. Slater have been deposited in the British Museum , whilst the bulk of the latter set lias been deposited in the Museum of Zoology of the University of Cambridge .
As far as practicable , and without detracting from the value of each set , the two sets have been mutually supplemented by an exchange of duplicate specimens , but originally they consisted of the following remains :\#151 ; Carine mu T. of V. Jenner .
T. of V. Jenner .
Cranium - - - \#151 ; 1 Metacarpus - - 1 2 Mandible - - - 1 1 Coracoid - - \#151 ; 1 Pelvis - - - 2 3 Femur - - 3 9 Humerus - - - 4 5 Tibia - - 2 10 Ulna - - - \#151 ; 2 Metatarsus - " - 3 6 Necropsar r Cranium - - l l Ulna - - 8 \#151 ; Mandible - - - 1 2 Metacarpus - - 1 \#151 ; Sternum - - - \#151 ; 1 Femur - - 2 2 Coracoid .
- 1 \#151 ; Tibia - 15 23 Humerus - - 5 7 Metatarsus - " - 11 5 Turtur picturatus .
Sterna - - - 3 \#151 ; Tibia - - 4 \#151 ; Humerus " - 1 \#151 ; Metatarsus - " 1 \#151 ; Necropsittacus rodericanus .
Upper part of cranium - \#151 ; l Ulna - - 2 1 Mandible - - - l l Femur " 2 1 Coracoid - - - 2 \#151 ; Tibia - - .
2 2 Humerus - - - 6 4 Tarsus " 1 ' Falceornis exsul .
Humerus - \#151 ; 6 1 Femur - \#151 ; 1 Ulna - - - \#151 ; 1 Tibia - \#166 ; - \#151 ; 5 * With the exception of the Solitaire , which is the subject of a subsequent separate paper .
JErythromachus leguati .
Cranium T. of V. I Jenner .
2 Ulna T. of V. - 8 Jenner .
4 Bill - .
5 2 Radius * .
- 2 _ Mandible - - \#151 ; 5 Metacarpus - - - 2 \#151 ; Pelvis .
- - 5 6 Femur - - 13 15 Sternum .
- 2 \#151 ; Tibia - - 16 18 Scapula - - 1 \#151 ; Tarsus - 10 17 Humerus Cranium with bill 6 1Z Ard me , - \#151 ; l gacephala .
Ulna 2 Tympanic Mandible - .
- - 1 Radius " - \#151 ; 1 - - 2 1 Metacarpus - - 1 2 Pelvis - - - \#151 ; .
1 Phalanx - - \#151 ; 1 Vertebra .
- - \#151 ; 3 Femur - - 2 1 Sternum - - - \#151 ; 1 Tibia ' - - 2 2* Coracoid - - - \#151 ; 2 Fibula - - \#151 ; 1 Scapula .
- - \#151 ; 2 Metatarsus - - 4 4 Humerus - - 2 4 Phalanx - \#151 ; 3 Carine murivora ( .
JK.-JEdwJ ) .* ( Plate XLI .
, Pigs .
A.-P .
) M. A. Milne-Edwards ( Ann. Sc. Not .
Zool. t. xix .
, art .
3 , p. 12 ) recognized two tibiae and one metatarsus as belonging to two species of Owls , one of which he named Strix ( Athene ) murivora , the other ( represented by one tibia only ) he left unnamed .
This last was 6 mm. longer than that of C. murivora , and said to be distinguished by a shorter and less projecting peroneal crest .
Haying this individual bone before us , together with a considerable number of tibiae of the shorter and longer kind , we have been able to ascertain that a great portion of the peroneal crest is brQken away , that in perfect specimens the crest of the longer bones is as much developed as in the shorter ones , and that , in fact , the former are evidently those of females and the latter of males , according to the difference in size which obtains between the sexes of nearly all the nocturnal birds of prey .
After having satisfied ourselves that all the Strigine remains from Podriguez are referable to one species only , Cari/ no murivor , we hoped to be able , with the aid of so much more material than was at the disposal of M. Milne-Edwards , to throw more light on its generic affinities .
In this we were not successful , chiefly for the reason that the genera of Owls adopted by some ornithologists do not by any means coincide with osteological modifications , and that the Podriguez Owl shows a combination of osteological characters which we have not found in any of the numerous skeletons of Striges with which we have compared it beops , Surma , Carine , Ninox , Qlaucidium , Asio , 8fC .
) .
Of the cranium ( Pig .
A. ) , the frontal region , with a portion of the parietal region , has been preserved .
The frontal bone is not swollen at the root of the bill , as , for EXTINCT BIRDS.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER and E. NEWTON .
instance , in Carine boobook or C. hirsuta , but rather concave , as in infuscata and C. noctua .
The orbit appears to have been of an unusually short diameter , and the eye is not protected by the long supraorbital process of C. noctua and C. infuscata , this process being reduced to a very short prominence , as in zelandice , C. boobook , and C. hirsuta .
The margin of the orbit in front of the supraorbital protuberance is longitudinally grooved .
Width of anterior part of frontal region , 13 mm. ; least width of interorbital space , 15^ mm. The mandible ( Fig. B. ) does not show any peculiarity ; one of the rami is 40 mm. long .
The form of the pelvis ( Fig. E. ) , particularly of the postacetabular portion , differs from that of all other Owls with which we are acquainted .
The anterior iliac blades are of moderate width , presenting a deeply excavated outer surface , the lower portion of which is nearly horizontal , a small pointed tubercle projecting on its outer margin ( as in Scops rutilus ) .
The convergent dorsal edges of this part of the ilium do not coalesce into a crest , but are connected by a flattened lamina , which forms the roof over the large longitudinal vacuities on each side of the sacral crest .
In its middle the pelvis is but moderately constricted .
The postacetabular portion is broad , chiefly owing to the great width of the sacrum , which is of rhombic shape , dorsally slightly depressed in the median line .
The post-iliac crest is unusually prominent and more strongly curved , in an S-shaped line , than in any other Owl with which we are acquainted .
There exist considerable modifications of the configuration and arrangement of the foramina for the sacral nerves in the various species of Owls , even in such as are referred to the same genus .
The Bodriguez Owl resembles in this respect Carine noctua , and still more Scops rutilus , the three anterior foramina being equidistant from each other , of nearly the same width , and separated by the strong pleurapo-physes , all of which are perpendicular to the axis of the vertebral column .
The fourth foramen is much constricted by pleurapophyses , which are much stronger than the preceding , and situated at a different level , opposite to the point of the greatest constriction of the pelvis .
The deep anterior and posterior renal excavations are separated from each other by a pair of slender pleurapophyses .
On the whole , the pelvis of this bird is of an unusually strong build , and well adapted to form the base of the powerful muscles of the trunk and hind limbs by which this small-hodied bird was enabled to keep down the rats with which the Island was infested , as Leguat informs us , and later to overpower " les petits oiseau et les petits lezards " as the author of an old manuscript says it did.* * Professor Newton has published the abstract of this MS .
" Relation de l'Ue Rodrigue , " in Proc. Zool. Soc. 1875 , p. 39 ; and the entire MS .
has been published by Professor A. Milne-Edwards in Ann. Sci , Not .
( 6 ) ii .
art .
4 , pp. 20 .
The passage runs as follows :\#151 ; " On voit un oiseau qui est a peu pres comme la chouette , et qui mange " les petits oiseau et les petits lezards .
" The pelvis does not appear to vary much in size .
\#151 ; Carine murivora .
Carine boobok .
Asio accipitrinus .
Length of pelvis ( to end of sacrum ) Greatest width of anterior part Least width of anterior part Greatest width of posterior part 36 mm. 21 " \gt ; 4 " 29 99 34 mm. 22 " 14 " 23 " 40 mm. 21 " 134 " 25 " .
The single limb-bones do not show any characteristic features , and very little need he said about them beyond the general conclusion at which we have arrived from comparative measurements of those of other Owls .
The coracoid ( Mg .
0 .
) is a little weaker than in C. boobook , and 30 mm. long , its sternal extremity being 10 mm. broad .
The foramen nutritium of the shaft of the humerus ( Fig. D. ) is generally ( but not constantly ) nearer to the distal than to the proximal extremity .
The ulna shows elevations for the secondaries .
In the femur ( Fig. F. ) all the lines and grooves for muscular insertions are strongly marked ; the outer inferior condyle is very prominent , and provided with a deep groove for the tendon behind .
The tibia and metatarsus have been described by M. Milne-Edwards .
The discovery of a part of the cranium and the pelvis enabled us to obtain a pretty accurate idea of the size of the Rodriguez Owl .
Its body was rather larger than that of C. boobook , but considerably smaller than that of Asio The wing was clearly somewhat shorter and a little less developed than in either of those Owls , though the power of flight of this bird cannot have been much impaired .
On the other hand , the length and strength of its legs , as compared to the size of the body , and especially to the length of the wing , was much more than in any of the species of Owls , the skeletons of which we have been able to compare , as will be seen from some of the measurements which we have taken , and which we tabulate thus .
j Humerus .
Ulna .
Metacarpus , j Femur .
Tibia .
Metatarsus .
Carine murivora , , boobook " infumata " noctua " hirsuta " castaneoptera , , connivens Spiloglaux novse-zelandise longest , shortest .
69 X 64 69 49 51 56 48 115 58 74 76 28 28 30 55 137 30 36 36 58 56 64 24 60 65 AO longest , shortest .
54 x 50 48 39 41 39 33 65 41 54 long , short .
76x69 74 58 59 60 49 109 64 77 long , short .
46x41 41 36 37 32 23 35 40 Asio accipitrinus 81 90 OQ 32 50 28 Scops rutilus - 47 54 178 So 101 146 75 Bubo virginianus 163 OO1 \#163 ; *Q 120 129 54 Ketupa zeylonensis 76 121 oo EXTINCT BIRDS.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER and E. NEWTON .
Necropsar rodericanu Slater .
( PI .
XLII .
, Eigs .
A.-G .
) The discovery of an extinct Starling in Rodriguez , allied to the of Reunion , which appears to have held out a little longer in struggling for its existence within so narrow limits , is undoubtedly one of the most interesting results of Mr. Slater 's labours .
He recognised and determined the affinities of the remains found by him , and says , in preliminary manuscript notes appended to his general report : " Professor Newton prophesied , as it were , the existence of this bird ( Proc. " Zool. Soc. 1875 , p. 41 ) when , alluding to a bird mentioned in a manuscript " ' Relation de Pile Rodrigue , ' he said , ' I am at a loss to conjecture what these birds ( t were , unless possibly of some form allied to .
' Necropsar is altogether a " smaller bird than Fregilupus , to which it is most closely allied .
If it were a " mammal , I should not make a separate genus of it ; but as it is a bird , I think I " cannot do less .
" After a close scrutiny of all circumstances , we quite agree with the discoverer of this bird in questioning the propriety of generically separating two species , on what appear to us very slight modifications of the osteological frame ; and we retain the name Necropsar merely from the wish of conforming with the present ornithological practice .
In the following notes more especially those points will be mentioned in which the Rodriguez Starling differs from that of Reunion , the latter having been fully described in Dr. Murie 's excellent paper in Proc. Zool. Soc. 1874 , p. 474 , to which we have to refer for other details .
The skeleton of Fregilupus itself , which is unique , has been lent to us by Professor Newton .
Of the skull of Necropsar ( Eig .
A. ) the cranium with the maxilla and mandible has been preserved ; but all the bones of the palatal region and the tympanic have been lost .
It is extremely similar to the skull of , and more especially possesses a postorbital muscular impression above the temporal fossa , which is very conspicuous in Fregilupus and Acridotheres ( \lt ; ) , and faintly visible also in the common Starling ( Sturnu ) .
But it differs from Fregilupus in having not only the supraoccipital ridge conspicuously more developed , but also in showing , besides , an additional line of muscular insertion ( biventer * ) running across the parietal region , subconcentric with the supraoccipital ridge .
The development of these ridges indicates a corresponding increase of strength in the muscles of the neck and articular end of mandible .
The maxilla is a little shorter , and decidedly less curved , and less slender at the extremity than in lupus , the nasal aperture being longer and generally larger .
The mandible f is on * See Owen , Anat .
Yert .
II .
, p. 85 , fig. 35 .
18 .
\#166 ; j* The articular facet of the mandible is figured on PI .
XLII .
, Figs , a and a1 , half as large again as the natural size .
Fig. a represents its configuration as it appears in two of the specimens before us ; but in 3 h 2 the whole of a stouter build , and about the middle of its length ( at the angle of the mouth ) more bent , in the fashion of the corresponding part of the Starling .
Peculiarities all of which indicate that N had to use greater force than Fregilupus in searching and perhaps digging for its food , and that it possessed in an eminent degree the capability found in several species of Starlings and Crows , of removing objects or forcing an entrance in their search for food , by first inserting their wedge-shaped bill and then opening the mandibles .
The greater strength of the bill would also be fully accounted for , if Necropsar be the bird described in the old manuscript previously mentioned as feeding on eggs and dead tortoises ' " qu'ils savent assez bien dechirer .
" * The fenestra in the interorbital septum is wider than in Fregilupus .
Fregilupus .
Necropsar .
Length of cranium ( measured from occipital condyle ) -Greatest width of cranium - Width of interorbital space - - - Length of bill - " nasal aperture - , , mandible - Greatest depth of mandible - - - 26 mm. 23 " ?
2 " 41 " 11 " 58 " 5 \#187 ; A. B. C. D. \#151 ; \#151 ; 28 mm. or 29 mm. \#151 ; - 21 " 21 " 8 8 " \#151 ; \#151 ; 39 " 36 " \#151 ; \#151 ; 13 " 12 " 59 53 53 " \#151 ; 5 5 4^ " \#151 ; Of a sternum only the fore part has been preserved , which does not show any difference from the corresponding bone of , except in the foremost part of the keel being 1 mm. lower .
The coracoid ( Pig .
B. ) , 27J- mm. long , is otherwise identical with that of Fregilupus ( 29 mm. ) .
Such of the wing and leg bones as have been preserved differ nowise from those of Fregilupus , Acridotheres , or Sturnus .
Pigures , half as large again as the natural size , are given of the humerus ( C. ) , metacarpus ( D. ) , ( E. ) , tibia ( P. ) , and metatarsus ( G. ) .
The ulna is distinctly marked with elevations for the secondary quills .
All these bones vary in size ; but as far as we can judge ( with any amount of the third specimen ( Fig. a ) the angular developes a transversely extended process directed inwards , which is entirely absent in the two other specimens .
One of the authors ( E. N. ) is inclined to consider this process as an individual malformation .
* The passage runs as follows:\#151 ; " On trouve un petit oiseau qui n'est pas fort commun , car il no se trouve pas sir la grande terre ; on en voit su l'ile au Mat , qui est au sud de la grande terre , et je crois qu'il se tient sir cette ile a cause des oiseaux de proie qui sont a la grande terre , comme aussi pour vivre avec plus de facilite des ceufs de ces oiseaux de pechent qui y pondent , car ils no mangent autre chose que les oeufs ou quelques tortues mortes de faim qu'ils savent assez bien dechirer .
Ces oiseaux sont un peu plus gros qu'un merle et ont le plumage blanc , un party des ails et de la queue noire , le bee jaune aussi bein que les pattes , et ont un ramage merveilleux ; je dis un ramage quoiqu'ils en aient plusieurs , et tous differents , et chacun des plus jolis .
Nous en avons nourri quelques uns avec de la viande cuite hachee bien menu , qu'ils mangeaient preferable-ment aux grains de bois."\#151 ; Proc. Zool. Soc. 1875 , p. 41 .
EXTINCT BIRDS.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER and E. NEWTON .
safety ) by comparing their average length with that of Fregilupus , the length of the forearm of the latter was relatively to that of the humerus somewhat greater than in Necropsar , while the proportionate lengths of tibia and metatarsus were exactly the same , as may be ascertained from the following measurements :\#151 ; .
\#151 ; Necropsar .
Fregilupus . !
Sturnus vulgaris .
longest shortest Length of humerus 35 32 38 27 " ulna 40 37 47 34 " metacarpus 22i \#151 ; 24 \#151 ; " femur - - - 34 32 37 26 , , tibia - - - 59 52 65 46 " metatarsus 41 36 45 Necropsittacus roder , M.\#151 ; E. ( PL XLII .
, Eigs .
H.\#151 ; N. ) As more parts of the skeleton of this extinct bird are discovered , its affinity to Falceornis ( which has been maintained by M. Milne-Edwards , in his second treatise on this bird , p. 134 , ) becomes more and more apparent .
The most peculiar portion of the skeleton ( as far as we know it at present ) is the cranium ( Fig. H. ) , which is singularly depressed , the occipitals being low , the occipital foramen wider than deep , the parietals but slightly convex , and gently sloping behind towards the occipital region .
This depressed form of skull we have not observed in any other genus of parrots except in Ara , but the birds of that genus have a complete suborbital arch , while in Necropsittacus , as in Falceornis , the uncinate bone is not anchylosed to the squamosal process .
To judge from the figure of mauritianus ( Encyl .
Brit. Ed. 9 , iii .
, p. 732 ) , that bird may have had a similarly flat and depressed cranium .
\#151 ; Necropsittacus .
Palaeornis ( alexandr ) .
Ara militaris .
Length of base of cranium ( without 50 mm. 35 mm. 59 mm. bill ) .
Width of cranium - 38 " 28 " 48 " Depth of , , 24 " 21 yy 34 yy The several limb-bones vary considerably in size and length , in a similar manner as those of the other extinct birds of Rodriguez ; but this variation does not seem to indicate a sexual difference , as there are intermediate specimens between the longest and shortest .
Such of the bones as have been preserved do not show any noteworthy feature ; we have given figures of the natural size of the coracoid ( J. ) , humerus ( K. .
) , femur ( B. ) , tibia ( M. ) , and metatarsus ( N. ) A comparison of tlieir relative lengths with those of Ara and JP alccornis appears to he of direct interest .
* Necropsittaeus .
Palseornis ( alexandri ) .
Ara militaris .
longest shortest Length of coracoid - \#151 ; 35 31 53 , , humerus - 53 49 43 79 " ulna - - \#151 ; 57 52 99 , , femur - 49 46 37 60 " tibia - 63 59 50 83 " metatarsus \#151 ; 22 18 31 If we considered the skull as a safe guide to obtain an estimate as to the size of the bird , we should infer that the length of the wing as well as of the leg had been diminished in this bird , as compared with and Ara .
But we believe that the pelvis affords a much surer basis for such calculation , and are , therefore , contented to leave this question undecided for the present , merely maintaining that in the extinct Bodriguez Parrot all the limbs were smaller relatively to the size of the head than in Ara and JPalceornis , and that the fore-limbs were relatively to the hind-limbs not less developed in the Bodriguez bird than in those two genera .
JPalceornis exsul , A. Newton .
The fragments of the skeleton collected by Messrs. Jenner and Slater have been mentioned at the beginning of this paper .
As , however , a nearly complete skeleton of a freshly killed bird has been obtained , a description of the isolated hones in their collection would he obviously superfluous .
Qolumba roderica , M.-E .
M. Milne-Edwards has described this Pigeon from a single sternum so different from that of other members of this family ( as far " as they are known ) , that we cannot refer it , at present , to any particular genus .
A metatarsus seemed to him to afford evidence of the existence of a second species , which he believed to he Turtur picturatus of Madagascar , Beunion , and Mauritius .
We have before us two metatarsi , not differing from that examined by M. Milne-Edwards , and do not see the reason why they should be separated from C. rodericana , to which , evidently , all the other bones of our series belong .
All the limb-bones ( humerus , femur , tibia , and ) vary not inconsiderably in size , but there is a gradual passage from the shortest specimen to the longest , so that this difference is not likely to be sexual .
The only evidence we have found of the possible existence of a second larger species of Pigeon is a femur in Mr. Jenner 's collection which is 42 mm. long , and comparatively more slender than that of C. rodericana .
The line of muscle-insertion on the front of the shaft starts from the very margin of the hone below the trochanter , as in a EXTINCT BIRDS.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER and E. NEWTON .
Pigeon , and not inwards of the margin as in a Parrot .
But no definite conclusion can be safely arrived at from this single hone .
The limb-hones of the Bodriguez Pigeon do not show any perceptible noteworthy peculiarities .
The humerus has a deep semi-globular pneumatic cavity , and a small tubercle on the ulnar margin just above the condyle .
The femur is slightly bent forwards , with the line of muscle-insertion starting from the margin of the bone , and running inwards along the middle line of the front side of the shaft .
The following are the measurements :\#151 ; Length of humerus _ Shortest .
- 34 mm. Longest .
37 mm. " femur - - - - 36 " 37 " , , tibia - - \#166 ; 44 " CN 00 , , metatarsus - - - 25 " 26 " Aphanapteryx and Erythromachus .
( Plate XLIII .
) The classical paper " Sir les affinites zoologiques de , " in which M. A. Milne-Edwards , with the most convincing precision , demonstrates the Balline characters of a few ornithic remains sent from Mauritius , recognizing their connexion with the picture so fortunately and opportunely discovered by Yon Erauenfeld , offers such a sure base for all succeeding workers that scarcely more remains to he done than to supplement his memoir by description of those parts of the skeleton with which he was not acquainted .
At a somewhat later period M. Milne-Edwards received a metatarsus and sternum from Bodriguez , in which he recognized the representative of the Mauritian apteryx , hut misled ( as we think ) by Leguat 's description , he believed that the Bodriguez bird differed by having a straight bill and shorter legs , referring it to a distinct genus which he named Erythromachus ( Ann. des Sc. Not .
Zool. t. xix .
art .
3 , p. 6 ) .
These differences do not in reality exist , the bill of the Bodriguez bird is as much curved as in the Mauritian , and their legs have the same proportion .
The wings were clearly more developed in the species inhabiting the smaller island , and certainly lack the power of flight , but this can scarcely be relied upon as a generic distinction , and , therefore , we prefer looking upon the Bodriguez bird as a smaller species of Aphanapteryx with somewhat longer wings , and to treat of it as Aphanapteryx leguati .
The search for further evidence of Aphanapteryx in Mauritius , subsequent to M. Milne-Edwards 's memoir , has resulted only in the discovery of some more or less broken metatarsals , besides fragments of other portions of the leg which do not admit of determination .
From the small size of the former bones , it is clear that Aphanapteryx broecki varied considerably in size , or that two races existed , which is not very probable .
The cranium of A. leguati ( Fig. A. ) is , in .
general appearance , extremely similar to that of Ballus ( \lt ; aquations ) and Ocydro being slightly elongate , equally convex in every direction , and with the processes and ridges but slightly projecting .
The orbital edge of Ocydromus is truncate nearly in its whole circumference ( perhaps for the attachment of a glandular band ) , but in A. leguati it is rounded off , as in Ballus .
The frontal region is narrow , long , with the lateral margins slightly diverging in front .
All the bones belonging to the palate and the lachrymals are lost , but so much of the jaws has been preserved as to give a perfect idea of the form of the bill , which is curved in exactly the same manner and to the same degree as in A.broecJci .
It is very feeble , and varies extraordinarily in length , being in some specimens one third shorter than in others .
The extremity of the longer beaks ( Fig. A. ) is more conspicuously curved than that of the shorter ones ( Fig. B. ) Besides , we may state at once that throughout the series of bones at our disposal a marked difference in size may be traced ; but whether the short bills belong to the smaller individuals , or whether the difference in length of beak and in size generally is attributable to sex , we are unable to say .
The culmen of the bill above the nostril is almost straight ; the nasal aperture of extraordinary length , slightly longer than the cranium .
The extremity of the bill is provided with a deep and narrow groove along its under side .
The mandible ( Figs. A. , C. , C1 ) is identical with that of the Mauritian species in every respect , except in size , more especially it has the three postarticulary apophyses ( C. ) arranged in exactly the same manner , but less projecting , as may be expected in the smaller species :\#151 ; Length of cranium measured from occipital condyle Greatest width of cranium Least width of frontals -Length of bill " nasal aperture " lower jaw -Greatest depth of lower jaw 38 mm. 20 99 65 99 77 99 43 99 98 99 8 99 The pelvis ( Fig. D. ) is large , very strongly built relatively to the size of the bird , and has thoroughly Balline characters ; its prseacetabular portion is narrow , with the iliac blades scarcely divergent , and dorsally confluent into a high crest , the profile of which is much more strongly curved than in Ocydromus ; a strong crest runs along the median line of the back of the sacrum .
The postacetabular portion is dilated , much broader than in Ocydromus or , with deep and capacious renal excavations , and with the outer descending surface of the os ischium formed into a deep broad short hollow , bordered by an upper ( postiliac ) projecting crest , and by the lower reverted margin of the bone .
The postiliac crest is not continuous , but interrupted above the ischiatic foramen as in Ballus and Ocydromus .
EXTINCT BIRDS.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER and E. NEWTON .
The ischiatic foramen , is circular , about equal in extent to the acetabulum .
The slender pubic rods are not dilated posteriorly or attached to the ischium , so far as we can judge from a single specimen , in which the pubic bone is preserved , with only a very small portion of its extremity broken off .
Length of pelvis to end of sacrum - - - 57 mm. Greatest width of anterior part - - - - 20 " Least width of anterior part - - - - 13 " Greatest width of posterior part - - - - 36 " A single scapula ( Eig .
E. ) , which we are inclined to refer to this bird , is imperceptibly dilated behind the middle of its length , and tapering in its posterior third .
The articular surface for the shoulder-joint is very small .
The whole bone is 45 mm. long , with a greatest width of 4 mm. The humerus ( Eig .
E. ) resembles much that of its shaft being straight , somewhat compressed , and moderately slender .
The projecting process behind the head is almost hamate ; and there are no pneumatic foramina .
Notable is the great difference in the size of this bone , the largest specimens being 50 mm. , the shortest 45 mm. long .
The larger and smaller specimens are represented in about equal numbers in the series before us ; and several are intermediate between the extremes mentioned .
The ulna is considerably bent , in some specimens rather more so than others ; relatively to its length it is stout , with a conspicuous ridge running from the inner side of the elbow joint along the greater part of its length ; some faint elevations for the attachments of the secondary quills are visible .
As regards length , it varies to a similar extent as the humerus , the longest specimen being 42 mm. , the shortest 37 mm. , long .
The radius is much more slender and weaker than in Ocydromus .
In the metacarpus ( Eig .
G. ) , the imperfect development of the wing is still more apparent than in the proximal bones ; its constituent parts being very slender , and the middle and annular bones ancliylosed at the extremities only , leaving a large vacuity between them .
A minute tubercle is situated on the side of the middle bone which is opposed to the annular .
The two specimens before us measure 16 and 14 mm. in length , the larger being as long as the metacarpal of Ocydromus , and not much longer than that of Hallus aquaticus .
The femur ( Eig .
H. ) is , relatively to its length , stouter than in the trocharterian ridge well marked .
The shaft is slightly bent , with a faint ridge for the insertion of muscles along its anterior and posterior side .
As regards length , the specimens vary from 56 to 63 mill .
The tibia ( Eig .
I. ) and metatarsus ( Eig .
K. ) are , in every detail of their con-formation , identical with those of A. broe , so that any description would be merely a repetition of that given by M. Milne-Edwards .
The shaft of the tibia 3 i seems to be a little more elliptical in a cross section in the Rodriguez bird ; and its middle trochlea projects somewhat less beyond the outer ones .
The great extent of variation in size of the Rodriguez Rail is clearly shown by our series of these two bones ; specimen A ( from Mr. Slater 's collection ) must have belonged to an individual of unusually large size ; but the passage from specimen B to C is very Gradual , as is also the case between the extreme sizes of the metatarsus .
Length of tibia Width of middle of tibia Spec. A. - 101 mm. - 6 " B. 96 mm. C. 84 mm. Length of metatarsus Width of middle of metatarsus Width of trochlear extremity - Longest .
60 Hi Smallest .
52 5 11 It is not by any means certain that the tibia and metatarsus of described by M. Milne-Edwards belonged to the same individual , although the state of their preservation , the same deep black colour with which they are stained , the circumstance that they were found in the same locality , and the corresponding size of their condyle surfaces , would seem to lead to that conclusion .
Neither have the femur and metatarsus of the same individual of A. been found , or at least preserved .
It is therefore impossible to state with precision the relative lengths of these bones in either species .
But taking such examples of bones of A. leguati as appear to be of an average size , and comparing them with those of A. , we come to the conclusion that in all probability the Rodriguez species did not differ from the Mauritian as regards the relative lengths of the long leg bones.* Nycticorax megacephalus , ( A , M.-E.).f ( PI .
XLI .
, Eig .
G. ) Researches made subsequently to M. Milne-Edwards 's description of this bird , have brought to light several bones with which that author was not acquainted , viz. , the penultimate and antepenultimate cervical vertebrae , the fifth dorsal vertebra , the pelvis , the scapula , ulna , and radius , the second phalanx of the inner toe , and the first of the hind toe .
These bones need scarcely any description , as they are * Note on Fulicanewtoni , M.-E .
Like the other birds indigenous to the Mascarene Islands , the Coot of Mauritius varied considerably in size .
The tibia described and figured by M. Milne-Edwards is 144 mm. long .
Two others which aie now before us , and which like the former were found in the Mare aux Songs , and are now in possession of Mr. Lucas , of Upper Tooting , measure 140 and 124 mm. , the shortest specimen being that of a full giown bird .
t Ann. des sc .
not .
Zool. t. xix .
art .
3 , p. 10 .
EXTINCT BIRDS.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER and E. NEWTON .
of the same form as those of the birds of this family , and especially of , but they are important additions , assisting us essentially in arriving at safe conclusions as to the relative development of the various parts of the skeleton , and the real affinities of this bird .
M. Milne-Edwards had considered it to be a true Ardea ; finding the fore part of its frontal region flat as in a Heron , whilst this part is concave in , he dismissed the question of the affinity to the latter which to us appears to be undeniable .
The distinctive features of the skull common to the European and Rodriguez Night-Herons are :\#151 ; first the great width of the occipital region ; then the mastoid processes , which are as distant from each other as the temporal : the relative distances between the mastoid , temporal , and postorbital processes are the same in both birds .
The temporal fossa is nearly of the same width ; the foramen occipitale is broader than deep , more as in the Rodriguez species than in N. griseus ; the arch of the supraorbital margin is in both much more open than in the Heron ; the praenasal groove is equally deep , and extending equally far forwards ; the bill of the Rodriguez species is not less curved downwards than in N. , though the bill is equally slight in either .
The bill of N megacepha is much stronger than in the European bird , but not more so than in other species of this genus .
The principal difference between these skulls is that that of the Rodriguez species is much more depressed , with scarcely any transverse and longitudinal depression near the base of the bill ; it is also a little longer .
The evidence gathered from a comparison of the pelves leads to the same conclusion .
The prseacetabular portion is nearly equally narrow and constricted ; the anterior iliac blades coalesce for a short distance only , leaving a great part of the sacral crest uncovered .
The width of the postacetabular half , and the arrangement of the foramina , pleurapophyses , \amp ; c. are nearly the same .
N. megacephalus .
N. griseus .
Length of pelvis 63 mm. 61 mm. Width in its narrowest part 15 " 14 " Greatest width above acetabulum - - 35 " 33 " The pelvis of Ardea cinerea has a length of 82 mm. , and a greatest width of 39 mm. , and is therefore in general shape ( as well as in other details of configuration ) widely different from that of Nycticorax .
Taking the pelvis as guide , the body of the Rodriguez Night-Heron was of nearly the same size as that of N. griseus ; the cranium also was nearly of the same size , whilst the bill and mandible were much stronger , and in accordance with this powerful development of the maxillary apparatus , the cervical portion of the vertebral column was proportionally stouter than in N griseus .
The reduction of the power of flight has been already demonstrated by M. Milne- 3 i 2 Edwards , and we are able to corroborate his opinion by completing the measure , ments of the sternum and wing in comparison with the European Night-Heron:_ Length of sternum _ _ _ N. megaceph .
N. griseus .
64 mm. 69 mm. Breadth of sternum - \#187 ; - 34 " 37 " Greatest depth of keel - - - 14 , , 20 " Length of scapula - - - 72 " 72 " " coracoid - - - 55 " 60 " " humerus - - - 114 " 126 " " ulna - - - - 121 " 139 " , , radius - - - - 117 " 132 " " metacarpus - - - 62 " 70 " will be observed from this table that whilst all the bones of the have been reduced in length ( and strength ) , the scapula has not been affected by the diminished amount of exercise taken by this bird .
As regards form , it is exactly the same as in other Herons , viz. , tapering behind , without dilatation .
With regard to the leg , M. Milne-Edwards , guided in his estimate of the general size of the bird by the length of the skull and femur , inferred that this part of the osseous frame was much reduced in length .
Haying shown from the pelvis , with which M. Milne-Edwards was not acquainted , that the body of this bird was considerably less in size than he supposed , in fact equal to that of the European NightrHeron , we arrive at the opposite conclusion , viz. , that the leg is proportionally much more developed in length and strength .
And this will be readily perceived from the following table:\#151 ; N. megaceph .
N. griseus .
Ardea cinerea .
Length of femur 86 mm. 82 mm. 89 mm. " tibia 136 " 136 " 185 " " metatarsus - 93 " 89 " 139 " Width of metatarsus - 0^ , , \#151 ; Length of 2nd phalanx of inner toe 20 " 19 " 26 " " 1st " hind toe o CO 28 35 " In this table we have added also the corresponding measurements of the Heron , in order to show that the Rodriguez bird agrees with , and differs from Ardea in the length of the femur as compared with that of tibia and metatarsus .
The metatarsus and the phalanges are the parts in which the greatest development has taken place , the thickness of these bones being nearly twice as great as in N. griseus , the bird having been clearly of much more cursorial habits than its congeners , chasing rather terrestrial animals ( lizards ) than aquatic .
Thus the effect of the prolonged isolation on the two vertebrate-hunting birds of Rodriguez , the Owl and the Night-Heron , was precisely the same .
Without EXTINCT BIRDS\#151 ; A. GtJNTHER and E. NEWTON .
losing the power of flight , they became breyipennate ; but the increased development of the legs compensated for the reduction of this power , and enabled the one to destroy animals of larger size when the smaller kinds became scarcer , and the other to chase its swift-running prey .
In the Night Heron the increase of development was confined to the legs in conformity with its acquired habit ; and it was principally the metatarsus which became enlarged to receive and form a base for the tendons of the foot .
But the Owl required additional strength for the purpose of mastering and tearing its prey , not only in the muscles of the lower leg , but also in those attached to the trunk , and hence we find in this bird the greatest development in the femur and pelvis .
B. Mandible .
D. Humerus .
F. Femur .
Explanation of the Plates .
Plate XLI.:\#151 ; A.\#151 ; F. Carinemurivora ( not .
size ) .
A. Cranium .
C. Coracoid .
E , Pelvis .
G. Pelvis of Nycticorax megacephalus ( not .
size ) .
H. Pelvis of Nycticorax griseus ( not .
size ) .
Plate XLII .
:\#151 ; A.\#151 ; G. Necropsar rodericanus. .
All these figures are half as large again as the natural size , with exception of A. ( skull ) , which is of the natural size .
A. Cranium .
a , Articular surfaces of mandible .
B. Coracoid .
C. Humerus .
D. Metacarpus .
E. Femur .
F. Tibia .
G. Metatarsus .
H.\#151 ; N. Necropsittacus rodericanus ( not .
size ) .
H. Cranium .
K. Humerus .
M. Tibia .
Plate XLIII.:\#151 ; Aphanapteryxleguati .
All the figures are of the natural size , with exception of C. and C1 , which are three times enlarged .
A. and B. Cranium of long and short billed forms .
C. Articular surface of mandible .
C3 .
Posterior aspect of end of mandible .
D. Pelvis .
E. Scapula .
F. Humerus .
G. Metacarpus .
H. Femur .
I. Tibia .
K. Metatarsus .
I. Coracoid .
L. Femur .
N , Metatarsus .
Trans , of Venus Expect_______________Rodriguez._____________\#166 ; ________Zoology PI XL I Mintem Bros .
imp .
RMhrteiii del .
et 11th .
A-F .
Carrne munvora .
G. Nycticorax megacepliaTiis .
H , Nyctioorox griseias Trans , of Venus Exped .
Rodriguez.____________ Zoology .
PI .
XUI .
R .
Mintern .
del etdtth .
* A~G .
Necropsar rodenca^rjois .
HrN .
Necropsrbtacus roderica/ nus .
Mintem Bros imp .
Rodriguez Zoology Pl .
XLIH .
R.Mmtcm del .
et 11th .
Aplaaxiapteryx legiaati .
Mixrtem Bros. imp .

