]\gt ; 318 Mr. A. H. Garrod on the relation of the Cardiograph [ Feb. It was found that from teu to twelve Fraunhofer lines could be registered in about 15 seconds , and that , when the same lines were recorded five times in succession on the same card , no sensible difference of position could be detected between the pricks registering the same line in the several spectra .
It is obvious that , b.v registering the spectra of different substances on the card , a ready method is obtained of comparing the relative positions of the lines of their spectra .
Each spectroscope was furnished with a compound pnsm , which was made by Mr. Grub and gave a dispersion equal to about two prisms of dense glass with a refracting angle of Postscript.\mdash ; I have just learned that in a spectroscope contrived Professor Winlock for observing the eclipse of December 22 , 1870 , the positious of the observing-telescope are registered by marks made upon a plate of silvered copper.\mdash ; February 3 , 1870 .
February 23 , 1871 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. Trensurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " " On the Mutual Relations of the Apex Cardiograph and the Radial Sphygmograph Trace By A. H. of St. John 's Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. GARROD .
Received January 18 , 1871 .
A desire to acquire an accurate knowledge of the relation borne by the commencing contraction of the heart to the origin of the primary rise the pulse at the wrist , led the author to construct an instrument which has enat ) him to determine , with considerable accuracy , the mutual relation of these two points , and to demonstrate one or two unexpected results , not altogether without interest .
The cardio-sphvgmograph above mentioned consists of a piece of board , 10 inches long by inches broad , and about half an inch thick , along one side of which asphygmograph can be laid , as shown in fig. 1 .
On the opposite side a spring ( a ) like that employed in the sphygmograph is attached to a moveable support ( b ) , so that its tension can be modified .
To the free end of the spring a small pad ( c ) is fixed , which is communication with the cardiograph apparatus by means of a silk thread ( d ) .
This latter instrument consists of a light lever , a little over 2 inches long , connected to the board first mentioned by a frame ( f ) which is just from the sphygmograph when the latter is in position .
The lever , { which is one of the third vstem , is connected on either side , close to ts 1871 .
] and Radial Sphygmograph Trace .
fixed end , to two silk threads , one of which ( d ) is attached to the pad and spring above mentioned , and the other to a small spring ( g ) which moves it when it is less acted on by the stronger spring .
The apparatus is so arranged that the lever works perfectly when it is so placed as to be above the registering part of the sphygmograph , when the latter is in position .
The tip of the lever carries a steel pen Fig. 1 .
To use the iustrument , the sphygmograph is first fixed on the left as usual , the recording paper being adjusted to its place .
The arm is then moved until the attached instrument rests on the board first mentioned : and it is maintained in position by certain pegs and holes in the board , which respectively come into contact with the main parts , and receive the projections of the instrument .
The arm and attached apparatus are then moved until the pad of the cardiograph spring is brought into contact with the spot , between the fifth and sixth ribs , at which the heart 's pulsation is most marked\mdash ; the position of the pad in relation to the board having been previously so fixed as to enable this to be done with facility , the whole beiug maintained in the horizontal position .
The contact of the pad with the chest-wall causes the lever to recede ; and it is allowed to do so until its peIl arrives bove the aper , the whole apparatus being steadied by the hand .
When the levers of the two instruments are both found to be moving freely , the watchwork of the sphygmograph is set in action by means of a string , connected at the other end with the stop-block of the train of wheels ; and when the recording-paper has run its length , a combined trace is found , as in figure 2 .
Fig. 2 .
The commencement of the two traces is easily defined with pre ision 320 Mr. A. H. Garrod on the relation of the Cardiograph [ Feb. 28 , and as they are both recorded on the same paper , synchronous must be at equal distances from the starting-points , and therefore they can be projected on one another .
The results obtained by these projections form the subject of this communication .
All the observations were made on the same subject , aetat .
24 , in good health .
They were au made in the sitting posture , as the apparatus could then be held more firmly , or rested on the arm of a chair .
To facilitate description , the following terms and symbols will be employed with regard to pulse-traces .
1 .
The rapidity of the puIse is symbolically represented by 2 .
The first cardiac interval is that which occurs between the commence ment of the systolic rise and the point of closure of the aortic valve , in cardiograph traces .
The number of times that this interval is contained in its component beat is represented by ; and the law as to its length , publisbed elsewhere* , will be assumed ; it may be stated thus : 3 .
The first al'terial interval is that which occurs between the mencement of the primary rise and the termination of the major fall in arterial sphygmograph traces .
The number of times that this interval is contained in its component beat is represented by ; and the law as to ils length at the radial artery , which is alone considered in this communication , published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society ( No. 120 , 1870 ) , will be assumed ; it may be thus stated : 4 .
The first cardio-arterial interval is that which occurs between the commencement of the systolic rise in the cardiograph trace and the origin of the main rise in the sphygmograph trace .
The number of times that this interval is contained in its beat is represented by 5 .
The conjugate cardio-arterial interval is that portion of the first cardiac interval which is synchronous with a portion of the first arteri ] interval .
It is therefore the interval between the commencing sphygmograph rise and the point of closure of the aortic valve as represented in the cardiograph trace .
6 .
The second cardio-arterial interv } is that occurs between the point of closure of the aortic valve and its indication at the artery under consideration .
In commencing to work with the cardio-sphygmograph , measurements were made to lind the duration of the first cardio-arterial interval , as it required but a few experiments to prove that the heart commences to contract before the pulse is indicated at the wrist .
By means of compasses , or by superposing one trace on the other , the oommenCilg cardiograph rise was projected on the sphygmograph trace ; and the interval between this event and the origin of the radial rise was Journnl of Anatomy and Physiology .
Cambridge , vol. Nov. 18/ 0 .
and Radial Sphygmograph Trace .
then measured into its component beat in each pulsation of the trace , from which the average of the observation was obtained .
The results are given in Table I. Column II .
; and in Column III .
some of these are expressed in purts of a minute , whereby a better idea can be obtained as to their significance .
TABLE I. From these results it is seen that the first interval is longer in slow than iu quick pulses , and that it does not incrcase as quickly as the pulse diminishes in rapidity ; but that the statement that it varies inversely as the square root of the rapidity is correct , or very nearly so , is rendered evident by comparing Columns III .
and IV .
, in the latter of which the duration of the first cardio-arterial interval is calculated from the formula .
The chief source of error in these observations is the slight uncertainty in the rate of movement of the watchwork of the instrument , on which the calculation of the rapidity of the pulse depended .
On comparing this equation , namely , with the one above referred to as to the relations of the first cardiac interval , namely , it is evident that the length of the first cardio-arterial interval is 5128 , or just over half that of the first cardiac interval , whatever the rate of the pulse .
This being the case , a more precise method is acquired of verifying the results arrived at ; for by findiog the number of times that the first cardio-arterial interval is contained in the first cardiac interval , a co1lstant quantity ought to be the result , which is independent of the rapidity of 322 Mr. A. H. Garrod on the relation of the Cardiograph [ Feb. 28 , the puIse .
Table II .
contains these measurements ; and it may be seen that , though there is a small range of variation .
the numbers are all very near to the theoretical requirement , which is ; and their average is 1.983 .
TABLE II .
It is generally known that in the sphygmograph traces of most slolv pulses there is a notch in the first arterial interval , immediately preceding the major fall ; and oue of the most marked results of the use of the cardio-sphygmograph is the determination of the fact that the point of closure of the aortic valve at the heart is always exactly syuchronous with the lowest part of this notch , or the point of abrupt change of direction in the major fall of the sphygmograph trace .
This leads to the almost necessary conclusion that the subsequent slight rise or change in dilection of the trace is the resuIt of the simuItaneous movement of the whole column of blood produced by the suddenness of the shock of closure of the aortic valve , the secondary rise in the same trace being the more slowly transmitted pressure wave resulting from the same cause .
The slower the pulse the more distinct is this notch ; and by comparing different rapidities , a gradual diminution in its conspicuousness is apparent , it rising higher and higher above the point of tion of the mnjor fall as the pulse is quicker and quicker .
When the heart 's rate is about 75 in a minute , the notch is halfway down the major descent , and is blended it ; when over 100 a minute , as the aortic clos when the ascent is at its maximun ] , the notch is so blended with the pressure wave as not to indicate itseIf separately .
In slow pulses , the systolic mftin rise being quite over when the aortic 1871 .
] and Radial Sphygmograph Trace .
valve closes , the shock indicates itself by an abrupt but not considerable rise , breaking the very gradual major descent .
This explanation being correct , another means is obtained of checking the results arrived at by the combined instrument ; and Table III .
Column II .
contains a few measurements of the number of times that the conjugate arterial interval is contained in the first arterial interval , as found by measuring the ratio of the intervad between the commencing artenal rise and the bottom of the notch in the major fall to the whole first artenal interval .
Column III .
gives tho theoretical resuIts necessitated by the equations given above .
TABLE III .
It may be mentioned that the reason why so few of these instances are given , is that there is considerable difficulty in measurin these small intervals into one another with precision ; but by practice a very fair estimate can be made of their value , and in all cases they seem to agree with theoretical requirement .
The close accordance of the results obtained by this method in very slow pulses , and the calculated results arrived at from facts relating only to quicker ones , tends strongly to establish the correctness of the law given with regard to them .
In Table IV .
the lengths , in ) arts of a minute , of the different referred to in this communication , are given as calculated from the uations on which they have been shown to depend .
With regard to the second cardio-arterial interval , a reference to Column .
will show that it varies very slightly within the range of the heart 's action , not being longer in a pulse of 36 th in a pulse of 169 in a minute .
Mr. CI .
Gore on the hermo-electric [ Feb. TABLE IV .
In , the following are the results that have been at by the use of the above cardio-sphygmograph:\mdash ; 1 .
The first cardio-arterial interval varies inversely as the square root of the pulse-rate .
2 .
The conjugate cardio-arterial interval aries inversely as the square root of the pulse-rate .
3 .
The second cardio-arterial interval varies very little with different pulse-rates , but is slightly longer in slower pulses .
4 .
The depth of the notch the first arterial interval of the sphygmograph trace occurs at the moment of closure of the aortic valve .
5 .
There is no definite indication in the sphygmograph trace of the moment at which the artel.ial systole commences .
II .
" " On the Thermo-electric Action of Metals and Liquids By GEORGE GORE , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1871 .
It is vell known that the degree of rapidity with which a metal immersed in an acid , alkaline , or saline liquid is corroded varies considerably with the temperature , and that the speed of corrosion usually increases with the heat ; also a few experiments have been published ( Gmelin 's ' Handbook of Chemistry , ' vol. .
p. ) showing that changes of electrical state occur in metals under such circumstances ; but a further examination of the relations of the temperature and chemical change to the electrical stnte has not , that I am aware , yet been made .
In an investigation on the development of electric currents by unequally heated metals in liquids ( Phil. Mag. , vol. xiii . .
I found that hot

