On the apparent Direction of Eyes in a Portrait .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. and V.P. Read May 27 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 247 .
] When we consider , says the author , the precision with which we commonly judge whether the eyes of another person are fixed upon ourselves , it is surprising that the grounds of such judgement are not distinctly known , and that most persons in attempting to explain the subject would overlook some of the circumstances by which they are generally guided .
Though it may not be possible to demonstrate , by any decisive experiment , on the eyes of living persons what those circumstances are , we may find convincing arguments to prove their influence , if it can be shown in the case of portraits , that the same ready decision that we pronounce on the direction of the eyes is founded , in great measure , on the view presented to us of parts which have not been considered as assisting our judgement .
Dr. Wollaston then adverts to the influence of the form of the iris , as announcing the direction of the eye in portraits , and to that of the variable portion of the white shown when the eye is variously directed in living persons : he remarks , however , that even in real eyes we are not guided by this circumstance alone , but are unconsciously aided by the coilcurrent position of the face ; and he illustrates this opinion by reference to a series of drawings annexed to the paper , and which show that the apparent position of the eyes is principally influenced by that of the adjacent parts of the face , especially those which are most prominent ; and these considerations are not limited in their application merely to cases of lateral turn of the eyes and face .
But the same principles also apply to instances of moderate inclination of the face upwards or downwards ; for when the face is directed downwards , the eyes that look at us must be turned upwards , from the position of the face to which they belong ; and if to eyes so drawn an upward cast of features be substituted for the former , the eyes immediately look above us , as is found by a sketch 5 annexed .
From these and other details given in the paper , the author concludes that the apparent direction of the eyes to or from the spectator , depends upon the balance of two circumstances combined in the same representation ; namely , 1st , the general position of the face presented to the spectator ; 2nd , the turn of the eyes from that position ; and thence proceeds to examine why , if the eyes of a portrait look at the spectator placed in front of the picture , they appear to follow him in every other direction .
When two objects are seen on the ground at different distances from us in the same direction , one appears and must be represented exactly above the other , so that a vertical plane from the eye would pass through them ; and since such a line will be seen upright , however far we remove to one side , it follows that the same objects still seem to be in a line with us exactly as in the front view , seeming as we move to turn from their first direction .
In portraits the permanence of direction , with reference to the spectator , and corresponding change of its apparent position in space when he moves to either side , depends upon the same principles .
The nose drawn in front , with its central line upright , continues directed to the spectator , though viewed obliquely ; or if the right side of the nose is represented , it must appear directed to the right of the spectator in all situations ; so that eyes that turn in a due degree from that direction towards the spectator , so as to look at him when viewed in front , will continue to do so when viewed obliquely .

