]\gt ; Nh Far .
Somc pressions for Argon } .
Tempcratule .
Pressure .
Volunle .
R. mm. 353 .
3.8930 correction has been made for the lulhe ted or urlcooled stem of the thermometer ; but it is ) vious that although the lowest temperature lies close to lihe boiling point of trgon , the ratio of the values of of hydrogen and argon at that ture , well as the others , is ctically constant .
On Expressions and Axial Components of the netic F in the of olenoids of Circular -section.\ldquo ; By C. Angas Scholar , ersity of Adelaide .
Connlnnicated ) Professor H. LAblD , F.R.S. eceiyed Junc June 16 , 1898 .
In the present arrived at , in terms of zonal spherical harmonics and their first derivatives , by which the values of the two components of the ctic force may be calculated for any point in the interior of a coil , hcncc the total force may ) found both in magllittlde and direction .
The ] ting series fier from the well-known defect in the nonic nlcthod , in that they are not very rapidly for points 1 ' the ) of the space for which they apply .
A table of the of the first derivalives of the first sevell zrnlonics is dded .
This table , in conjunction with that lcssrs .
HollaIl( , Jones , and Lamb , and published in the ' azinc , ' SeIies 5 , December , 1891 , will the nse of the expressions rrived at .
Let be the letic P point within solenoid whose depth of indefinitely .
If bc the dins of this " " oicM shect the the axis of the coil , the txis of dins of the scction of the coil , the origin the centre of the of the coil , neglecting , where X componcnt of the nctic force , the component , of the outside of tJlc coil of dins of the inside lClial dof Jfagnctic Forcc .
where the nnml ) of turns per length in Ctlt i C.G.S. lmits , the point considered dne to plane of slrf derlsit lul , with the positive end of the dnc to the tive end .
If ( the of the point considered from the centrcs of the ) ends of the coil respectivcly , the to nglcs which ' ectively with the of the coil , we have cssions f in telms of , ' and Q. ( 1 ) ( 4 ) IVhen for , the forms of ( 1 ) ; hilst(3 ) become ; ( C ) ' Second dition , .
S 1 ' bc ener lised as follos:\mdash ; ' Mr. C. Far .
Somc ) p,.essions for These relations may all bs proved ( as was done originally by the author ) by induction , using the well known relation lming them to be true for and , they may then be shown to be true for ; and trial establishcs the equality in the case of and .
Professor T. R. Lyle has , howcver , given me a much and neater proof by means of the tions ( ) ( ) ( d ) where , as usual , ' if denote the half-length of the coil .
Since we have A single example is sufficient .
king the of eqnation ( 3 ) have , by and ( b ) .
Expressions for the components of the magnetic force in that of a long coil for which both greater than S. It bc ( x ) X ; ( ) of of , on the of the the of ingly small . . .
, , OilC colcnoid II 1 \ldquo ; , ; it ( , ' .
, , Mr. C. for III .
Short : cxpression for the components in the region in which and both less T. Here X ( ) It easily the value of at the ccntrc of a coil consisting of few ) approximately the rndius , is hcre K is the total number of turns .
F , xpressioJ for the etic f in of in which If ; have X and Componcnts of The , do not need tion .
The .though FOlb , sily be wl'ittcn down ilonl tho the ut the the ished 1 in the ' ' vol. chcck on the fotl in lly , ( unly in the ) uf lt thongh it ccly to ) pected 1 sonlc detection .
With thosc 1 llit lonnd in the ot thu thu .
C. idge 1 Lxprcssions for slight tiolt of the expressions for is necessary ; those for X the Ib fficicnl fpplication to ve to of ishment of the fourth onld i of .
Though the , they in ( the it and of 00 Mr. C. for omponcnts of Jlagnetic )

