l( Experimental Researches on the conducting powers of wires for Electricity ; and on the heat developed in metallic and liquid conductors .
" By the Rev. Wiliiam Ritchie , L.L.D. , Professor of Na ?
tural Philosophy in the Royal Institution of Great Britain , and of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College , London .
Ina former communication , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833 , the author endeavoured to show that the quantity of voltaic electricity conducted , or the force of the current , was a function of a greater number of variables than had been previously 4S[\ supposed .
As the theory which he proposed for cstimatingthe conducting powers of substances has been controverted by M. Lenz , he has been induced to reconsider the subject , and finds reason to be satisfied with the correctness of his former views .
He farther finds that with feeble magnetic needles the deflecting forces are not proportional to the force of the current , but approach nearer and nearer to that proportion by increasing the magnetic power of the needles ; a result which the author thinks is strictly deducible from the universal law of nature , that the attraction mutually exerted by two bodies is measured by the sum of their masses .
He shows that the formula of Ohen , expressive of the conducting powers of wires , and of the resistances which they offer to currents of voltaic electricity , is an approximation to the truth only in the case of feeble currents , and that with the same metal , the conducting powers are not as the lengths of the wires .
The author next inquires into the relation between the heat developed , which he finds to be , in the same wire , as the square of the intensity of the current ; and in wires of the same diameter , and conducting equal quantities of electricity , it is inversely as the conducting power , or directly as the resistance which they oppose to the current .
The facts he has adduced in this paper seem to be at variance with the generally received theory of caloric , and to be in perfect .
accordance with the undulatory theory .
He concludes by describing an experiment confirming the views he has elsewhere advanced with regard to the difference between the physical , the physiological , and the chemical effects resulting from the employment of coils formed of wires of different lengths , being dependent on the time required by the conductor for returning to its natural state .

