]\gt ; 222 Mr. J. Larmor .
A Dynamical [ June 20 , plan of the magnetic rock causing the disturbance has been made , and , together with the complete set of observations , the following results have been deduced .
The cause of the disturbance is a rid ge of rock permanently tized , repelling the north-seeking end of the needle .
In the transverse section this ridge is steeper on the south-east side where the disturbances are at a maximum than on the north-west side .
Longiudinally the rises rather abruptly to a principal peak ( as determined by the point of maximum disturbance of the vertical force ) , followed by a depression , and a second peak , finally falling lptly to the level .
The principal values of the disturbances caused by this ridge Declination . . . . . .
E. on S.E. side , W. on N.W. side .
Inclination . . . . . .
Horizontal force . .
on S.E. side ; on N.W. side .
Vertical force . . .
metric units .
A geological survey of the coast at the Red Cliff ( see map ) , where greatest distubances of the magnetic elements were observed , was made , and specimens of rock and sand were obtained which have since been tested for ceptibility .
The evidence from these does not give ally direct infornlalion tending to show the exact nature of the rock cansing the remarkable disturbances ovel .
the magnetic shoal , but the character of the disturbances caused by the visible and invisible land are of a similar character .
Five diagx.ams are appended the data from which the foregoing results have been deduced , with a map showing the position of the " " magnetic shoal\ldquo ; relative to the land .
Also a geological map of the Red Cliff and neighbourhood .
II .
A Dynamical Theory of the Electric and Luminiferous Medium .
Part II ; Theory of Electrons By JOSEPH LARJIOR , F.R. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Received May 16 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous paper on this subject , has been shown that by means of a rotationally elastic aether , which otherwise behaves as a perfect fluid , a concrete realization of MacCullagh 's optical theory can obtained , and that the same medinm affords a complete representation of electromotive phenomena in the theory of electricity .
The ponderomotive electric forcives were , on the other hand , deduced ' Boy .
Soc. Proc November , 1893 ; 'Phil .
Trans 1894 , , pp. 719\mdash ; 822 .
of ' the lectric and ) .
223 from the principle of , as the.surplus the field , the motions of the lieS in the field being supposed slow compared with radiation .
It seen that order to the corl'ectsign for electrodynamic forves between currcnt , we precluded from taking a current to be simply a -orffix ring in the fluid aether ; but that culty is removed taking a current to be produced by the of eIectrons o lementary electric the free aether , thus current effectively a vortex of a type whose can be by induction from hbouring .
An electron nsturally in the theory as a centre or nucleus of rotational strain , which can have a permanent existence in the rotationally elastic ( ethcr , in the same sense as a vortex ring can ve a existence the ordinary perfect fluid of theoretical hydrodynamics .
In the present paper a further of the of electrons is macLe .
a preliminary , the consequonccs , as nrds ponderomotive forces , of trenbing an element of current as a dynamical entity , which indicated in the previous paper , here more fully considered .
It is nlaintained that a hypothesis this would lead to an stress in a ] dnctor carrying a CUl'rent , in addition to the forcive of Ampere which acts on ach element of the conductor at right angles to its length .
Though is self-equilibrating as regards the conductor as a ] , yet when the conductor is a liquid , such as , it will involve a change of fluid pressure which ought to be of the same order of magnitude as the anlperean forcive , and therefore of detection whenever the latter is easily observed .
xperiments m by Professors FitzGerald and Lodge on this subject have yielded purely ative results , so that there is ground for the conclusion that the ordinary currcnt-element callnot be legitimately employed framing a dynamical theory .
This result is entirely confirmed when we work out the of the field of currents , considered as produced by the collvection of electrons .
There can be no doubt that a single electron may be correctly taken as an independent element of th medinm dynamical poses ; so that electrodynamical relations deduced from a statistical theory omoving electrons lvill rest on a much surer basis derived from the use of a hypothetical -element of ordinary kind , in cases where they are discrepancy .
Now it is shown that an intrinsic singulality in the , of the form ) an electron , moving with velocity relative to qniescent mass of aether , is subject to a force , givell 1 ations of the form ?
; V L. LVII I. 224 Mr. J. Larmor .
A Dynamical [ June 20 , in which is the velocity of flow of the aether where the elecbron is situated , and is equal to the curl of in such way that the latter is Maxwell 's vector potential given by the formulae of the type ; and where is the electrostatic potential due to tlJe eIectrons in the field , so that , where is the velocity of radiation .
These equations are proved to hold good , not merely if the motions of the electrons are slow compared with radiation , as in the previous paper , but quite lrrespective of how nearly they approach that limiling value ; thus the phenomena of radiation itself are included in the analysis .
An element of volume of an unelectrified material medium contains as many positive ] ectrons as negative .
This force tends to produce electric separation in the element by moving them in opposite directions , eating to an electric current in the case of a whose electrons are in part free , and to eleotric polarization in the case of a dielectric whose electrons are paired into polar molecuIes .
In the former case , the rate at which this force works ou a current of electrons is Pu ' ; it therefore is identical with the electric force as ordinarily defined in the elementary theory of steady currents .
In case of a dielectric it represents the ordinary eIectric force producing ] arization .
So long as a current is prevented from flowing , the ponderomotive force acting on the element of volume of the medium is the one of electrostatic origin due to such as the element may possess , for as the element is it contaiJls as many positive electrons as negative .
But if a current is fiowing , the first two terms of , of cancelling for the positive and negative , become additive , as change of sign of the eleclron is accompanied by change of sign of its velocity ; so that there is an electrodynamic force on the element of volume , , where , howeve is the true current composed of moving rons , not the total circuital current of Maxwell , which includes the rotational displacement of the free aether in addition to the drift the elecbrons .
The electric force as thus deduced agrees Yith the form obtained originally by Maxwell* from the direct consideratio1l of his concrete model of the electric field , with idle wheels to * Maxwell , " " On Physical Lines of Force 'Phil .
Mag lS61-62 ; 'Collecred ' vol. 1 , pp. 450\mdash ; 512 .
of and .
22 represcnt electrification .
It has been pointed ut by von Helmholt and others , the ] givcn 1 his Treatise , does not really lead to these equations when all the terms are retained ; this later aualysis proceeds , in fact , by the use of current-elements , hich form imperfect tion , iu that they no account of the genesis of the current by electric separaiion in the element of voInme of the conductol The ponderomove is to direction of true current , and is preciscly that of Ampere the ordinary crises ence b the true current and the tobal curl.cut is irccialle .
from 's result in involving insbead of total current ; that is , the forcive tends to move an clement of a body , but is no such forcive tending to move an element of the free itself .
In respect it differs from the ) otbesis u von recent tl.eatment of the elatiollS of movino mattelo ' to aether .
When we treat of a single is flow of the aethel here it is sitnated .
When wo treat of an element of volume its contained electrons , becomes the smoothed out , or flow of the aether in the element of volume ; it is cuilal because is incompressible .
and it reprcsents the magnetic indnction of Maxwell .
Wheu netic p the medium contributes to the lorcive , it is ncccssary to divide into two parts , one ibuted by the medium as a whole , and independent of the of the element , and the other the effect the polarization in the immediate hbourhood ; the former , of , the magnetic of ] .
Similar considerations pply as crards the electric force in a } ) olarized dielectric ; it is to defi it so as to to magnetic induction , llot to Jelic f. It is then shown from the direct consideration of the motions of , that there is , in addition to the ectrodyllamic force on the clement of volume of the edium , a netic force derived a potential function , a ce of electric origin derived from a potential .
If the element carries all electric charge of also force .
addition to these on polarized element , there are also stresses due to , in which to be found the explar.ntion of the phenomena of iction and icti on .
.xample ) ponderomotive forces , the mechanical is examined ou , a result that of when the light is incident on an opaquc body , and gi ves sures on the two sides of the interface each equal to welI 's 1t 2 226 .
J. Larmor .
[ June 20 , xpression multiplied by , when the intorface separates transparent media .
The distinction between true current and total current is practically immaterial , except .
in questions relating to electrical vibrations and optics .
The part of the theory is therefore deveJo particularly a view to optical applications .
At the end of the prev ous paper a brief outline of the method of treating optical dispersion was given , and it was shown that the same principles led directly to Fresnel 's formla for the effect on the velocity of light produced by motion , through the aether , of the material medium which transmits it .
In the latter respect the theory is in agreement with a more recent discusslon by H. A. Lorentz , of the ation of lcal and optical effects through moving media .
A detailed theory of optical propagation in transparent and opaquc1 ponderable media is given , on the basis that it is the contained electrons that are efficient in modifying the mode of propagation from that which obtains in free aether .
Ths dispersive theory of MacCullagh had been physically interpreted in the earlier part of previous paper ; but it appears from the same train of as was there applied to Cauchy 's theory , that molecular magnitudes too small compared with the wave-length to allow any considerable parb of the actual dispersion to be accounted statically that way .
The rocatory dispersions , both natural and magnetic : are , however , structural phenomeIIa ; and this accounts for their smallness with ordillary dispersion .
As regards ordinary dispersion , a formula is obtained for the case of perfectly bing media , namely , , where is the period , of the same type as one recently deduced by von Helmholtz by an abstract process based on the principle of Least Action combined with a theory of electrons , which , however , does correspond with the views here developed .
That this formula is a good representation of the experimental facts for ordinary transparent media is genera ] recognised ; especially as it may , in case necessity- , be modified by the inclusion of slight non-selective opacity , due to drift of free eleotrons , after the manner of ordinary conduc- tion .
When this kind of general opacity is predominant , the result obtained in the paper conforms to the main features of metallic propagation ; thus , with sufficient conductivity the real part of the square of the refractive index becomes negative , and the real part of the index itself may become less than unity , while the dispersion is usually abnormal .
When the phenomena of media are treated , dispersion may , for simplicity , be left out of account .
It is shom-n that , if the -iew described in the previous paper , that all the dynamical properties of matter are to be derived from the relations of electrons , with or 1895 .
] Electric incrtia , in a rotationally stic fluid bhcr , ntlll resuIt of oxpel.iment on the eficct of the 's motion velocity of becc)IllCS iuded in the theory ; to a estj o out by LzGcrald and , and oped what i11 this .
by tter , the second-order optical effect is just comby sccond-order ffcct 0 the of the moving arms elso ' is by otion along the As eories of electrolls or objects lequire delicac treatment , cspeciall wheu ) here , to the second orcLcr of , the of this ) of th deduced by anal the first place , tlsutl the circuital tionh of the tions as of the ) bnitn ble tion of the significance ) the vcctors involved in the same equations sball mcdia as taken 0VC tho of other out tl to the of ious vays in which the electric from ovelncnts of { he clcctlons in able mcdia .
rhetheol'y as developed from the electron as elenlent , be stated in a form which is indcpendcnt of ( otllesis of a rotational equaclectric field may tnkc place of th it , I , be contended will neilher be so simplc nor so graphic , lend itsclf so sily to intnitive of relations , as a more one of The ( permanence of ) in , under conditions , may be ascribed to the , infiuence of adintion o the-nolccule , keeps it in , or close to , a constant condition of notion , of minimum ) .
to its constant mome1lta .
It is out , from of sical , that the monic oscillations roscope divides radiation numorous than the co-ordinates ils ) tions ; , therefore , elationb of covered the litles , likely hat ever pcnetrate them back to .
actual conof the molecular system .
to matters to a otationnl a theory , with electrons as the sole foundation for , it is possible 228 .
John .
On the JfeJractive Index of [ June 20 , identify the inertia of tter with the electric inertia of the electrons , if only we may assume their nuclei to be small enough , or sufficiently numerous .
And the faot that these nuclei have free periods of elastic adial vration in the fluid aether , not subject to damping by radiation , reminds us that a pulsalory theory of gravitation has been developed by Hicks and Bjerknes .
There is no nised fundamental interaction of electric and radiative phenomena with gravitation , so for present purposes we are not bound to produce a precise explanation of gravitation at all .
The scope of this remark is rest1icted to merely showing that a rotational aether is not incompetent to include such an action among its properties . .
" " On the Refi.active Index of Valer at Temperatureft between and By Sir JOHN oNROY , Bart. , F.R.S. , Fellow Bedford Lecturer of Balliol College , and Millard Lecturer of Trimty College , Oxford .
Received May 16 , In 1856 Jamin ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. xliii , p. 1191 ) published an account of observations he had made on the refractive index of vater at temperatures between .
He used an interfel.ence method , and found that as the water cooled the index increased .
' ' La masse totale de l'eau qui d'abord etait a 12 degres , ' se refroidissant continuellement , arl'iva bientot a 4 degres , c'est-a-dire , an point ou les variations de l'indice devraient changer dc signe , et ou le deplacement des franges devrait etre inverse .
Mais rien de pareil ne se montra , et en continuant le refroidissement jusqu'a zero , on continua d'observer une augmentation de l'indice .
Il n'y a donc pas de maximum dans la valeur du coefficient de refraction quand il en a un dans la densite In another experiment temperature of ) column of water tbrough which one of the beams of light passed was kept at whilst that of the other was gradually raised to ; he found by the displacement of the bands that the index decreased eadily .
He did not , apparently , ] any numerical values for the illdices , bat states that they are given by the empirical formula Two years later Gladstone and Dale ' Phil. Trans 1858 , p. 887 ) an account of observations that they had made " " on influence of temperature on the refraction of light ; \ldquo ; they used a hollow glass prism , and determined the angles of minimum deviation for water , and several other liquids , various temperatures .
They say , " " our determinations were performed repeatedly and most carefully on water near the freezing point ; they confirm the observations

