3 .
A Letter from Captain C. M. Elliot , Madras Engineers , to Lieut.-Col. Sabine , For .
Sec. R.S. , transmitted through the Court of Directors of the East India Company .
Communicated by Lieut. Col. Sabine .
Having undertaken the magnetic survey of the Indian Archipelago at the recommendation of the Royal Society , I think a slight sketch , detailed as briefly as possible , of my operations may not be uninteresting to Sir John Herschel and the Committee of Physics of which he is Chairman , prior to the publication of the Survey .
I trust likewise I have acted strictly in accordance with the wishes of those who so kindly recommended me for the Survey , and I hope that my earnest efforts to do my duty will gain for me that approbation which I have under no ordinary difficulties incessantly striven to obtain .
I will in the first place mention the different stations I visited , and then describe in a few words , the way in which the observations were taken .
I have made a most complete survey of Java .
At Batavia I established an observatory where observations , magnetic and meteorological , were taken hourly from 3 A.M. to 9 P.M. for nine months .
In addition , about fifty stations , where observations of dip , of total intensity , of latitude , longitude , and declination were taken ; these were always made by myself , and I am certain they can be depended upon .
In Borneo an observatory was established at Sarawak , where observations were taken quarter-hourly for three months , besides visiting the Dutch settlements of Sambas , Pantianak and Succadana on the western coast .
In Sumatra four months of observation at Padang , besides a magnetic survey comprising about thirty stations .
I crossed the equator here as well as at Pantianak in Borneo .
At Singapore I compared the portable instruments with the fixed instruments of the observatory , besides determining the horizontal intensity and dip , which had not been accurately determined previously from insufficiency of means .
At the Cocos or Keeling Islands , six weeks of observation .
At Sambooangan , in the Island of Mindanao , upwards of a week .
At Keemah in Celebes , the same .
At Penang , the same .
At Moulmein , the same .
At the Nicobars , the same .
At Bencoolen in Sumatra , the same .
I will now mention the instruments and the mode of observation at the observatories .
The following instruments were registered every hour from 3 A.M. to 9 P.M. Two declinometers , and latterly a third made by Jones ; a bifilar magnetometer and its thermometer ; a standard barometer and its thermometer by Newman ; a standard thermometer and a dry and wet bulb .
On the survey , I employed for the observations four dippingneedles ; a portable declinometer with altitude and azimuth instrument for the declination and for latitude ; a sextant , artificial horizon and chronometer for the error and rates of the watch , which was but a poor one .
I began work generally at 6 A.M. , put up the portable declinometer , and allowed the brass weight and stirrup to swing for a couple of hours thoroughly to take the torsion out of the thread , adjusting it from time to time so that the stirrup might ultimately take up a position in the magnetic meridian ; during this period I took the dip .
At 8 A.M. I took sights with the sextant , and putting in the collimator magnet , I adjusted the altitude and azimuth to it , and took altitudes and azimuths of the sun , three on the limb direct , and three on the limb reversed , noting the reading on the horizontal limb ; at the same time this gave me the reading of the true meridian ; the magnetic axis of the collimator magnet was then read off ; these observations were usually completed by 9 } A.M. : by 11 A.M. I had finished my observations for horizontal intensity .
The small collimator magnet being suspended , the large collimator magnet was placed at four different distances east and west , and the deflecting collimator magnet was then vibrated and 300 oscillations taken .
At 11 A.M. I observed altitudes and azimuths of the sun with the altitude and azimuth instrument for equal altitudes .
At noon I took circummeridional altitudes of the sun , three with the limb direct , and three with the limb reversed , for latitude ; at 1 P.M. I again took altitudes and aziJnuths .
By equal altitudes from the mean of the times , I was enabled to check the results given by the sextant for time ; and by the azimuths corresponding to the equal altitudes , I checked the observations for the true meridian taken at 9 A.M. for the declination .
By this means I was always certain of the results by using different modes of verification .
If I stopped another day at the stations I repeated the observations ; if I was going to move off , I packed up the instruments and struck the tents , which generally took me the afternoon and the greater part of the evening , for I had no one to assist me .
At sea , whenever an opportunity offered , I took meteorological observations , viz. the standard thermometer , the dry and wet bulb , and the temperature of the air and sea at 3 A.M. and P.M. , and at 9 A.M. and P.M. ; sights for longitude at 9 A.f. and 3 P.M. , and latitude at noon , besides the dip three times , and sometimes five times a day ; every absolute determination was made by me .
Thus on shore as well as at sea , observations were commenced at 3 A.M. , and never terminated till 9 P.M. : I had for my assistant an Indo-Briton .
I will not trouble the Council of the Royal Society with stories of the difficulties I met with ; suffice it to say , that a stranger amongst the Dutch , the necessity of conciliating the natives in seeing me enployed in a manner so strange to them , travelling in the monsoons and in all weathers , sometimes for hours wet in the saddle , living in huts for weeks , the only shelter being cocoanut leaves , and at sea in a leaky old schooner that was perpetually in danger of foundering , with a captain who was scarcely ever sober , -it is not surprising that once or twice I fell sick .
I am now but slowly recovering from Java and Car Nicobar fever caught in the execution of miy duty .
I take the liberty of adding for the information of the Council of the Royal Society , that I never took a single observation unless I was by myself and my attention undisturbed .
If strangers were importunate , I waited until they left me .
If the weather was against me , I took no observations until it settled .
I made it a rule never to be in a hurry , and always to finish one set of observations before I commenced another , and to be as'comfortable as circumstances would admit .
I am certain that an observation is the more valuable in proportion to the mind being not only at ease , but able to fix itself with undivided attention on the observations .
I never , for instance , would think of taking an observation whilst bored by an intruder , or a high wind , or a heavy shower of rain falling .
I preferred under such circumstances invariably to sacrifice the observation rather than to record it .
I have the honour of sending to the Council as a specimen of the way in which the work was carried on , some of the absolute determinations made at the Cocos or Keeling Islands ; they will be able to see that often after the labours of the day had commenced at 3 A.M. , they were not terminated at 9 P.M. ; and in order to observe moon-culminating stars , I had sometimes to remain up the greater part of the night , for I had no one on whom I could place any dependence to awake me at the proper time .
Paper A contains the way and order in which the instruments of the observatory were registered .
Paper B. The dip taken at the Cocos , with an example .
Paper C. The horizontal intensity , with an example .
Paper D. The declination , with an example .
Paper E. The latitude , with an example .
Paper F. The longitude from moon-culminating stars .
I have the honour to be , Sir , Your most obedient Servant , Madras , C. M. ELLIOT , August 6 , 1849 .
Captain Madras Engineers .

