56 Messrs. A. W. Hofmann A. Geyger on [ Dec. 5 , In conclusion I may observe also that the secondary products of the action of heat upon trimethylated phenylammonium iodide appear to be of interest .
A small fraction of the bases , generated at 335 ' , boils at a very high temperature ; when allowed to stand for some time this fraction deposits splendid crystals of a monamine which , according to the analysis of the well-crystallized chlorhydrate and platinum salt , contains CuH17N ; and the constitution of which , after a more minute examination , will probably prove to be expressed by the formula [ C , ( Ch , ) , ]H2n .
Finally , there is found among these secondary products a beautifully crystallized hydrocarbon , melting at 136 ' , and boiling between 230 ' and 240 ' .
Some combustions of this body , which require confirmation , lead to the simple formula c4h6 , which determination of the gas volume weight will probably raise to C12H18 = C6(CH3)6 .
May this hydrocarbon actually be looked upon as sexmethylated benzol ?
If so , its oxidation promises results which will deserve minute investigation .
III .
" Colouring-matters derived from Aromatic Azodiamines .
" By A. W. Hofmann , Pli .
D. , F.R.S. , and A. Geyger , Ph. D. Received July 10 , 1872 .
II .
Safran " Whilst we were engaged with the study of the blue colouring-matter produced by the action of aromatic monamines on azodiphenyldiamine our attention became directed to a beautiful red tar-pigment , which has been known for some time by the commercial name of Safranine , being extensively used as a substitute for safflower in dyeing silk and cotton .
Safranine has not as yet been minutely examined ; but , as far as can be judged from the scanty information we possess regarding its production , it is scarcely doubtful that this important dye must be looked upon as being the derivative of an azodiamine .
The analysis of safranine thus promised to throw considerable light upon the nature of the compounds under examination .
The starting-point of our studies was the dye such as it occurs in commerce .
The greater portion of it was supplied to us by Messrs. Tillmanns , of Crefeld .
Another specimen was received from Dr. .1 .
Wolf , and for a third one we are indebted to our friend M. Charles Girard , of Paris .
Both the first-mentioned specimens were assigned to us as 1872 .
] Colouring-matters from Aromatic Azodiamines .
5 7 produced on the large scale ; the last was prepared by M. Girard himself .
Safranine occurs in commerce either as a solid body or en In the solid state it forms a yellowish-red powder , in which , together with considerable quantities of chalk and common salt , the chlorhydrate of a tinctorial base may be recognized .
The pure dye is easily separated from crude safranine .
It is only necessary to exhaust the commercial product with boiling water ; on cooling , the filtrate deposits a slightly crystalline substance which , after several recrystallizations from boiling water , leaves no residue on ignition .
During these operations , however , the salt undergoes perceptible alteration ; with every recrystallization it becomes more soluble and less crystalline .
These alterations depend upon the separation of chlorhydric acid from the salt .
In fact the percentage of chlorine is found to diminish in the product of successive crystallizations ; thus the product of the third contained 8-48 per cent. , that of the fourth crystallization only 7'46 per cent. Addition of chlorhydric acid to the mother-liquors at once reproduces a crystalline precipitate .
This instability of the chlorhydrate , and in fact , as may even now be stated , of the salts of safranine in general , has very considerably impeded the study of this body , and often materially affected the accuracy of the analytical results .
In order to obtain the normal salt , the boiling liquid during the last crystallization , had always to be acidified with chlorhydric acid .
Safranine chlorhydrate separates in fine reddish crystals from the acid solution on cooling ; an appreciable quantity of the compound , however , remains in solution .
The salt dissolves both in water and alcohol , more readily when hot than when cold ; it is insoluble in ether , as also in concentrated saline solutions .
The alcoholie solution , like the aqueous , is of a deep reddish-yellow colour ; it exhibits a peculiar fluorescence , which in a measure recalls that of Magdala-red .
Ether precipitates the salt from the alcoholic solution .
Numerous analyses which we have made of this salt lead to the following two formulae :\#151 ; CMH21N4aandC2lH21N4Cl , the theoretical values of which agree almost equally well with the averages of the experimental numbers .
We were doubtful at first to which of these two formulae preference should be given .
Indeed the assumption of twenty atoms of carbon in the molecule of safranine had its seductions ; however , the values of the second formula agree perhaps somewhat better with the results of analysis .
Indeed we found invariably somewhat less nitrogen than the quantity required by the former formula , whilst it is well known that the volumetric method invariably gives an excess ; so that we should have adopted the second formula , even if later experiments on the preparation of safranine had not altogether excluded the former one .
Platinum salt of safranine.\#151 ; The numbers obtained in the analysis of Messrs. A. W. Hofmann and A. Geyger on [ Dec. 5 , the chlorhydrate are confirmed by the investigation of the platinum salt .
This compound is obtained by precipitating a solution of the chlorhydrate by excess of platinum perchloride ; dilute hydrochloric acid must be used to wash this precipitate , as pure water appears to decompose it .
The platinum salt forms a yellowish-red crystalline powder , nearly insoluble in w'ater , alcohol , and ether .
If the salt suspended in boiling water be treated with sulphhydric acid , sulphide of platinum is slowly formed , whilst unaltered chlorhydrate of safranine remains in solution .
The analysis of the salt , dried at 100 ' , gave numbers corresponding to the formula 2(C2IH20N4.HCl).PtCl4 .
Free base.\#151 ; In order to prepare some other salts of safranine it was necessary to obtain the free base .
Remembering , when first we commenced the study of this new compound , the ' properties of the tinctorial ammonias in general , we endeavoured to precipitate the base from the chlorhydrate by alkalies .
Ammonia , however , is without any action whatever on salts of safranine ; and only in the most concentrated solutions does soda produce a precipitate which immediately redissolves on addition of water .
This precipitate is obviously nothing but chlorhydrate rendered insoluble by the sodium chloride formed , or by the concentrated soda solution .
Free safranine being soluble in water , there remained no other process for liberating the base than treatment of the chlorhydrate with silver oxide .
On evaporating the deep yellowish-red coloured liquid obtained in this way , a deposit of red-brown crystals is formed on cooling , which while moist scarcely differ from those of the chlorhydrate , but when dried at 100 ' assume a greenish metallic lustre .
Free safranine easily dissolves in water and alcohol , but is insoluble in ether .
Addition of chlorhydric acid to the aqueous solution at once reproduces the crystalline chlorhydrate .
We have not been fortunate enough to obtain free safranine in a state of perfect purity ; the solution invariably retains a small quantity of silver chloride , which separates with the crystallizing product ; it may be recognized by burning the base , when a small incombustible residue is left .
If the chlorhydrate be reproduced from the free base , so much silver chloride is mixed with the salt , that the percentage of chlorine , found on analysis , is appreciably raised .
An estimation of chlorine in the chlorhydrate thus prepared gave 10*8 per cent , instead of 9*74 .
Free safranine , however , may be used without difficulty in the preparation of other salts , the nitrate for instance .
Safranine nitrate is easily obtained when an excess of dilute nitric acid is added to a hot aqueous solution of the free base .
On cooling the salt crystallizes in red-brown needles , which are very insoluble in cold , but readily dissolve in boiling water .
They are considerably more soluble in alcohol than in water .
The nitrate is decidedly less soluble than the chlorhydrate ; a solution from which the latter salt has been thrown down by chlorhydric acid still gives a precipitate with nitric acid .
1872 .
] Colouring-matters from Aromatic Azodiamines .
59 The analysis of the nitrate , dried at 100 ' , leads to the formula CMHalNeO3=O21H20N4.HNO3 .
Safranine picrate.\#151 ; We have finally investigated the picrate .
It is obtained by simply adding an aqueous solution of picric acid to the mother-liquors of the chlorhydrate or nitrate , and washing the precipitate thus formed with water .
The picrate forms red-brown needles , which are insoluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
Analysis gave results corresponding to those obtained in the investigation of the chlorhydrate , the platinum salt , and the nitrate , and leading to the formula c " H " , N , 0 , =Cal H " N , .
C , H , ( NO , ) , O. We have no further analytical data to offer at present .
A brief notice of several other salts we have prepared may , however , still be appended .
Saf ranine bromhydrate is deposited on addition of bromhydric acid to a solution of the base as a crystalline powder , consisting of microscopic needles , which are so insoluble in water that the liquid from which they have been precipitated appears almost colourless .
The salt is soluble in boiling water , from which it crystallizes on cooling .
It is worth mentioning that , on adding bromine water to a solution of the chlorhydrate , a red crystalline precipitate is formed , which is difficultly soluble in cold water , but may recrystallize from boiling water .
In this way needle-shaped crystals are obtained which , when pure , possess a green metallic lustre .
They have not yet been analyzed .
The iodhydrate , as regards preparation and properties , is perfectly similar to the bromhydrate .
The sulphate of saf ranine is a rather soluble salt ; only in the most concentrated aqueous solution of the base is a precipitate produced on addition of dilute sulphuric acid ; the salt dissolves on heating the liquid , and is again deposited on cooling in the form of fine needles .
The oxalate behaves very similarly , but is a little less soluble than the sulphate ; with acetic acid the base gives no precipitate ; by spontaneous evaporation the acetate separates in rather indistinct crystals .
All the salts of safranine exhibit a very characteristic reaction ; on adding chlorhydric or sulphuric acid to the solution of the salt , the red-brown colour of the liquid changes to a beautif ul violet , which , on addition of more acid , becomes a deep blue , then a dark green , and finally a bright green ; if the acid liquid be slowly diluted with water , these changes of colour may be observed in inverse order .
It need scarcely be mentioned that in the course of this investigation our attention has been repeatedly directed towards the preparation of safranine ; it may , however , at once be stated that our experiments on this subject have yielded but scanty results .
As yet but little is known regarding the preparation of safranine on a large scale .
According to a 60 Colouring-matters from Aromatic Azodiamines .
[ Dec. 5 , brief notice published by Mene* , safranine is obtained by treating aniline successively with nitrous and arsenic acids ; this process very closely agrees with the method by which M. Girard , as he informs us , has prepared the specimen transmitted to us .
We have , moreover , to thank M. Girard for pointing out that aniline of a very high boiling-point is especially adapted to the preparation of safranine .
After some practice we have been able , by working according to these indications , to obtain safranine with all the properties of the commercial product .
The yield , however , was always very small , an exceedingly large quantity of but little attractive by-products being invariably formed .
Somewhat more satisfactory results were obtained when chromic instead of arsenic acid was used as oxidizing agent .
Our experiments , though unsuccessful as regards the discovery of a good method for preparing safranine , nevertheless appear to supply some welcome indications as to the real source of the colouring-matter .
Neither from pure aniline nor from solid toluidine have we been able to obtain safranine by the above-mentioned process ; nor did a mixture of pure aniline and solid toluidine yield a better result .
We have , however , invariably obtained safranine when liquid toluidine , boiling at 198 ' , was used for the experiment .
This colouring-matter thus appears to become a pure derivative of toluidine , and the formula to which analysis had led , is corroborated , as far , at all events , as the number of carbon-atoms in the molecule of safranine is concerned , in a most satisfactory manner by the formation of this body .
In this formation , as in that of rosaniline and of the allied tinctorial ammonias , 3 mols .
of monamine associate with a complex molecule , 3 atoms of hydrogen in which are displaced by one of nitrogen , 4 atoms of hydrogen being , moreover , removed by oxidation .
3C7 H9 N+HN02=C21 H24N4+2H20 .
0\#187 ; H " N4+2O=CalHI0N4+2H./ ) .
A glance at the safranine formula with its four nitrogen-atoms recalls the composition which Mr. Perkin ascribes to mauveine .
Safranine ... ... ... ... .
C21H20 N4 .
Mauveine ... ... ... ... . .
C27 N4 .
The idea suggests itself that mauveine might be phenyl safranine , 0"HS4N1=0S , H , \#187 ; ( C , HI)N4 .
In fact safranine salts yield a violet colouring-matter when boiled for some time with aniline ; again , safranine and mauveine exhibit nearly the same changes of colour under the influence of concentrated acids .
* Mene , from the Uevue Hebd .
Chirn .
Scient .
Indust .
Feb. 29 , 1872 , in Chemical News , vol. xxr .
p. 215 .
1872 .
] On a new Method for producing Amides and Nitriles .
61 Further , from a short notice published some years ago by Mr. Perkin* , safranine appears to be a by-product in the preparation of mauveine .
Eelations such as suggested by the above formulae must , however , be received with great caution .
The violet colouring-matter derived from safranine by phenylation has not as yet been further characterized .
No great stress can be laid on the similar colour-reactions with acids exhibited by both bases , since the methylated rosanilines , on treatment with acids , also become first blue and then green .
Moreover it is doubtful whether the base obtained by Mr. Perkin as a secondary product in the manufacture of mauveine really is the same safranine which we have investigated , inasmuch as some preliminary analyses have led him to a very different composition , which appears to be expressed by the formula c18h18n4 .
Finally , the composition of mauveine itself cannot be looked upon as established above all question ; at least Mr. Perkin + seems still to hesitate between the formula c26h24n4 , which appears to result from more recent experiments , and the formula c27h24n4 , previously announced by him .
The relations here pointed out are , however , well worthy of a thorough experimental investigation .
As we intend to continue this inquiry , an opportunity may present itself for their further elucidation .
IY .
" New Method for producing Amides and Nitriles .
" By E. A. Letts , Berlin University Laboratory .
Communicated by A. W. Hofmann , F.B.S. Received August 15 , 1872 .
Some time since Professor HofmannJ showed that phenyl mustard-oil , when acted on by acetic acid under pressure , is converted into phenyl-diacetamide , carbonic anhydride and sulphuretted hydrogen being separated .
^Hi}n+2(C , H , O.OH)=(\#163 ; ."-ox } N+C01+Hs8 .
Bearing this reaction in mind , the question arose as to how the metallic sulphocyanates would behave under similar circumstances ; at Professor Hofmann 's suggestion I have submitted this question to an experimental investigation .
Action of Acetic Acid on Potassium Supposing the potassium salt of sulphocyanic acid to undergo a change * Perkin , Proc. R. Inst , of Great Britain , vol. v. p. 572 .
t Perkin , loc. cit. J Hofmann , Berichte d. Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
1870 .

