The Croonian Lecture .
Microscopical Observations on the Suspension of the Muscular Motions of the Vibrio tritici .
By Francis Bauer , Esq. F.R.S. F.L.S. and H.S. Read December 5 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 1 .
] The Vibrio tritici is a small worm which infects wheat , being the immediate cause of that destructive disease called Ear Cockle , or Purples .
Upon examining the grains thus diseased , the author found them to be the unimpregnated germens , containing masses of a white and apparently gluey mucus , which might be removed in the shape of a firm ball , and which , when immersed in water , and viewed N ; 180 through the microscope , displayed hundreds of minute worms in lively motion .
When these worms had become perfectly dry , and apparently entirely lifeless , they again recovered upon being moistened with a drop of water , and were as lively as before .
To determine the origin of these animals , Mr. Bauer undertook a series of experiments , which convinced him that the spawn or eggs were conveyed into the cavities of the germens by the circulating sap .
In these experiments he inserted some of the worms into sound grains of wheat , suffered them to germinate , and found the worms in different stages of their growth in the stalk , and ultimately in the germens .
The largest of these worms was one fourth of an inch long , and one eightieth of an inch in diameter ; their head is armed with a moveable proboscis , and the tail ends in a claw-like point ; at a small distance from which , on the inferior side , is an orifice , from which they discharge their eggs in strings of five or six , adhering to each other .
Each egg is about +-qth of an inch long , and - , qth , or , th in diameter ; and if attentively examined , they are transparent enough to allow of the young worm being seen within , which , in about an hour and a half after the egg is laid , extricates itself .
These worms exhibit no external distinctions of sex , and the author considers them to be hermaphrodites .
The first specimens of these worms which Mr. Bauer examined , were from grains twelve months old , and consequently perfectly dry .
-He .
however , also succeeded in recovering them by immersion in water , from wheat which had been kept five years and eight months ; but the longer the specimens were kept , the longer were the worms obliged to be immersed in water , to enable them to recover their muscular motions .
The longest period of its suspension which he had observed , was six years and one month ; after that time they seemed perfectly dead .
Alternately moistened and dried in a watch-glass , these worms might be preserved alive for several weeks ; and if kept continually moist , they remained alive for three months ; but if dried at the end of that period , they do not again recover , but become quite straight , and remain unaltered in the water for more than fourteen months , when they gradually decay .
Their extraordinary preservation , and these various circumstances , Mr. Bauer refers to the mucous-like water in which they are enveloped , and which appears to be of an oily nature .
The author concludes this paper with an abstract of the description of these worms given by other writers , and of their opinions respecting their origin .

