II .
" On the Rigidity of the Earth .
" By Professor WILLIAM THOMSON , E.R.S. Received April 14 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The author proves that unless the solid substance of the earth be on the whole of extremely rigid material , more rigid for instance than steel , it must yield under the tide-generating influence of sun and moon to such an extent as to very sensibly diminish the actual phenomena of the tides , and of precession and nutation .
IResults of a mathematical theory of the deformation of elastic spheroids , to be communicated to the Royal Society on an early occasion , are used to illustrate this subject .
For instance , it is shown that a homogeneous incompressible elastic spheroid of the same mass and volume as the earth , would , if of the same rigidity as glass , yield about 7 , or if of the same rigidity as steel , about I of the extent that a perfectly fluid globe of the same density would yield to the lunar and solar tide-generating influence .
The actual phenomena of tides ( that is , the relative motions of a comparatively light liquid flowing over the outer surface of the solid substance of the earth ) , and the amounts of precession and nutation , would in the one case be only , and in the other 3 of the amounts which a perfectly rigid spheroid of the same dimensions , the same figure , the same homogeneous density , would exhibit in the same circumstances .
The close agreement with the results of observation presented by the theory of precession and nutation , always hitherto worked out on the suppo1862 .
] 103 sition that the solid parts of the earth are perfectly rigid , renders it scarcely possible to admit that there can be any such discrepance between them as 3 to 5 , and therefore almost necessary to conclude that the earth is on the whole much more rigid than steel .
But to make an accurate comparison between theory and observation , as to precession , it is necessary to know the absolute amount of the moment of inertia about some diameter ; and from this we are prevented by the ignorance in which we must always be as to the actual law of density in the interior .
Hence the author anticipates that the actual deformation of the solid earth by the lunar and solar influence may be more decisively tested by observing the lunar fortnightly and the solar half-yearly tides* .
These tides , it may be supposed , will follow very closely the " equilibrium theory " of Daniel Bernouilli for all oceanic stations , and the author suggests Iceland and Teneriffe as two stations well adapted for the differential observations that would be required .
The earth 's upper crust is possibly on the whole as rigid as glass , more probably less than more .
But even the imperfect data for judging referred to above , render it certain that the earth as a whole must be far more rigid than glass , and probably even more rigid than steel .
Hence the interior must be on the whole more rigid , probably many times more rigid , than the upper crust .
This is just what , if the whole interior of the earth is solid , might be expected , when the enormous pressure in the interior is considered ; but it is utterly inconsistent with the hypothesis held by so many geologists that the earth is a mass of melted matter enclosed in a solid shell of only from 30 to 100 miles thickness .
Hence the investigations now brought forward confirm the conclusions arrived at by Mr. Hopkins , that the solid crust of the earth cannot be less than 800 miles thick .
The author indeed believes it to be extremely improbable that any crust thinner than 2000 or 2500 miles could maintain its figure with sufficient rigidity against the tide-generating forces of the sun and moon , to allow the phenomena of the ocean tides and of precession and nutation to be as they are .

