The Adherence of Flat Surfaces .
temperature of the experiments , = 0'016 ) is 00000093 / a2 .
The agreement is sufficiently close .
It is therefore clear that the velocity of a thread of mercury l cm .
long , in a glass tube of uniform radius subject to a driving pressure P , is represented , with a fair degree of accuracy , by the equation p___0'038 .
a a* In conclusion I should like to acknowledge my indebtedness to Prof. Lees for much valuable assistance , and to the Eesearch Committee of the East London College for the apparatus .
The Adherence of Flat Surfaces .
By H. M. Budgett , B.A. ( Communicated by E. T. Glazebrook , C.B. , F.E.S. Eeceived September 20 , \#151 ; Eead November 23 , 1911 .
) In recent years it has been found possible to polish plane surfaces of hardened steel to a degree of accuracy which had previously been approached only in the finest optical work , and to produce steel blocks in the form of end gauges which can be made to adhere or " wring " together in combinations .
Considerable interest has been aroused by the fact that these blocks will often cling together with such tenacity that a far greater force must be employed to separate them than would be required if the adhesion were solely due to atmospheric pressure .
It is proposed in this paper to examine the various causes which produce this adhesion : firstly , showing that by far the greater portion of the effect is due to the presence of a liquid film between the faces of the steel ; and , secondly , endeavouring to account for the force which can be resisted by such a film .
The only previous experiments in this direction appear to be those carried out with Whitworth surface plates by Prof. Tyndall in 1875.* By wringing together two of these plates and suspending them in a vacuum he proved that the adherence between them was not caused solely by atmospheric pressure as had been previously supposed .
According to Goodeve , f the conclusion at which Tyndall arrived was that the plates adhered by the * Paper read at the Boyal Institution by Prof. Tyndall , June 4 , 1875 .
t 1 The Elements of Mechanism , ' 1897 , pp. 272\#151 ; 273 .
Mr. H. M. Budgett .
[ Sept. 20 , molecular attraction of the bearing points brought into close contact by reason of the near approach to absolute truth of surface .
Frequent references have been made to these experiments , and the conclusions of Tyndall appear to have been generally accepted .
The author 's curiosity was aroused by the fact that some steel gauges which he was constantly using in combinations did not always cling together with the same force .
Frequently they refused to adhere to one another at all , whilst at other times considerable difficulty was experienced in getting them apart .
On one occasion , when two blocks had been left wrung together for a long time , it was found necessary to hold one in a vice and hit the other sharply with a hammer in order to separate them .
Subsequent examination showed that the faces had rusted together , which proved that some moisture must originally have been present between them .
This led to the discovery that a minute film of condensed water vapour always formed upon the steel when the blocks were held with warm hands , and if care were taken to avoid this , and the faces were thoroughly cleaned with alcohol to remove grease , then all signs of adhesion vanished , and the blocks would fall apart at once under their own weight .
It soon became clear that the wringing effect was chiefly due to the presence of a liquid film between the blocks , and it was decided to make a series of experiments in order to examine\#151 ; ( 1 ) The adhesive properties of various liquid films .
( 2 ) The effects of atmospheric pressure .
( 3 ) The force of attraction between the molecules of steel in the two surfaces .
For these experiments a number of hardened steel blocks were specially made in the form of cylinders 1 inch in diameter and ^ inch deep , having a central screwed hole 5/ 16 inch in diameter , the area of the faces being thus 0*7 square inch .
These were specially polished with great care so that their faces were true planes within one-millionth of an inch , the accuracy being optically tested by means of proof glasses .
In testing the adhesive properties of various liquid films the following procedure was adopted :\#151 ; The liquid under examination ( with the exception of condensed water vapour ) was applied with a piece of clean linen bo the faces of two blocks which had previously been thoroughly washed with alcohol and allowed to regain their normal temperature .
The superfluous liquid was wiped off until only the barest film remained , until , in fact , the ordinary observer would say that the faces were perfectly dry .
In the case of condensed water vapour the blocks were held for an instant in the hands , or near the breath , to allow a film of moisture to spread over the 1911 .
] The Adherence of Flat Surfaces .
steel , and were then quickly put together before evaporation could take place .
The blocks were next wrung together with a combined sliding and twisting motion , which was found to produce maximum results , and after a pair of screwed Randles had been attached the force required to separate them normally was noted on a spring balance .
Many hundreds of readings were taken with dozens of pairs of blocks , and the average and maximum results are given in Table I , whilst some typical readings actually obtained with one pair of blocks are given in Table II .
Table I. ( Results obtained with many pairs of blocks .
) Liquid .
Pull in lbs. at separation .
Average .
Maximum .
Condensed water vapour 35 65 Turpentine 29 39 Paraffin 27 46 Oil of almonds 24 35 Lubricating oil ( Price 's ) 22 30 Olive oil 20 33 Sperm oil 18 30 Rangoon oil ( Price 's ) 17 28 Table II .
( Typical results actually obtained with one pair of blocks .
) 1 Liquid .
Pull in lbs. at separation .
Average .
Condensed water vapour 38 , 32 , 41 , 41 , 38 , 35 , 43 , 33 , 28 , 42 , 31 , 45 37 Turpentine 25 , 31 , 24 , 27 , 28 , 30 , 30 , 24 , 29 , 31 , 23 , 31 28 Paraffin 29 , 25 , 22 , 22 , 30 , 23 , 23 , 25 , 29 , 22 , 27 , 27 25 Oil of almonds 22 , 22 , 22 , 25,18 , 25 , 25,28 , 21 , 21 , 25 , 23 23 Lubricating oil ( Price 's ) 20 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 20 , 18 , 25 , 23 , 25 , 24 , 26 , 25 23 Olive oil 19 , 21 , 17 , 16 , 15 , 20 , 16 , 18 , 21,16 , 16 , 18 18 Sperm oil 23 , 20 , 19 , 20 , 16 , 15 , 19 , 17 , 22 , 20,17 , 16 19 Rangoon oil ( Price 's ) 12 , 17 , 19 , 15 , 22 , 18 , 13 , 21 , 20 , 17 , 15 , 14 17 Considerable variation in the readings is unavoidable , as it is impossible to gauge exactly the thickness and uniformity of the applied films , and there is an element of uncertainty in the action of sliding the blocks together .
Minute particles of dust and fluff off the linen have to be avoided with great care , and after a time the extreme accuracy of the faces becomes impaired , owing to the strain and to scratches which cannot be altogether prevented .
To obtain the most uniform results it was found desirable to 28 Mr. H. M. Budgett .
[ Sept. 20 , allow the blocks to stand for some time after each reading , in order that their temperature might remain as constant as possible .
No adhesion could be obtained with volatile liquids , such as alcohol , benzine , and petrol ; and viscous liquids , such as glycerine , treacle , and glucose , produce very little effect .
By rubbing the blocks on the hands after they have quite recently been washed very great adhesion takes place , and readings as high as 90 lbs. were recorded .
This must be due to traces of soap remaining on the hands , as only ordinary adhesion is obtained if all soap is carefully removed by rinsing the hands in clean water .
Several attempts were made to apply soap films by other means , but these were unsuccessful .
In order to determine what were the effects of atmospheric pressure , arrangements were made by which , after being wrung together , the blocks could be separated in a vacuum .
This was accomplished by means of a rod passing through an air-tight gland in the glass bell jar of a vacuum pump , and fixed to a spring balance within the jar .
The lower end of the spring balance could be screwed through a universal joint into the upper block under test , the lower block being screwed to the plate of the pump .
The blocks were separated alternately in air and in vacuo , and the average-results compared as shown in Table III .
Table III .
( Comparing Load at Separation in Air and under Vacuum .
) Liquid .
Average of 12 readings in air .
Average of 12 readings in vacuo .
Difference .
lbs. Condensed water vapour ... 36 T 34 *2 1-9 Turpentine 31 *7 30 1*7 Paraffin 25 *7 24 *6 IT Oil of almonds 25 T 22 T 3 Lubricating oil ( Price 's ) ... 22 *6 19 T 3*5 Olive oil 19 15 *7 3*3 Sperm oil 18 *7 14*3 4*4 Rangoon oil ( Price 's ) 15 *9 12 3-9 So little difference was found between the two sets of readings that it was decided to check the results by the following method ; \#151 ; The load was-increased by small steps , whilst the air was alternately exhausted from and admitted to the bell jar .
If separation occurred when air was present the maximum pull due to atmospheric pressure was obtained by comparison with the preceding reading in vacuo .
If , on the other hand , separation took place in vacuo , a comparison with the last reading in air gave the minimum 1911 .
] The Adherence of Flat Surfaces .
pull due to atmospheric pressure .
The results so obtained are given in Table IV , and are found to confirm those in Table III .
Table IV .
( Comparing Load at Separation in Air and under Vacuum .
) Liquid .
No separation in air .
Separation in vacuo .
Separation in air .
No separation in vacuo .
Lower limit of effect of atmospheric pressure .
Upper limit of effect of atmospheric pressure .
lbs. lbs. Condensed water vapour 36 35 *5 37 35 0*5 2 Turpentine 30 29 31 28 *5 1 2*5 Paraffin 28 27 *5 27 25 0 *5 2 Oil of almonds 20 17 *5 24 20 2*5 4 Lubricating oil 22 19 21 16 3 5 Olive oil 20 17 *5 22 17 *5 2*5 4*5 Sperm oil 19 16 19 14 3 5 Rangoon oil 15 12 17 *5 12 *5 3 5 It is surprising to note that the force due to atmospheric pressure in no case exceeds 5 lbs. , as , the area of the faces being 0*7 square inch , it might have been expected that this force would have approached 105 lbs. One would naturally suppose that such accurate surfaces , with a grease film between them , would be perfectly air-tight .
It is evident , however , that air must have free access to a very large area of the faces , probably owing to the blocks being pulled apart or distorted slightly under the strain of the applied force , the film between them stretching before breakage occurs .
It must be remembered that the volume required to fill the space between the faces is exceedingly minute , and since the pull is increased very gradually , a considerable time is allowed for the air to leak in or out .
With thicker films the atmospheric pressure has a greater effect .
Thus , with a fairly thick layer of Rangoon oil a difference of 6*5 lbs. was noted between the force of separation in air and in vacuo , the force due to the air in this case being 9*3 lbs. per square inch .
This may be due to the air being more impeded by the thick oil , or to the faces being less distorted or separated , owing to a smaller force being required to cause breakage when a thick film is present .
On the other hand , when the faces are perfectly clean and no film whatever is present , the adhesion almost vanishes and the blocks will not support each other , although their weight is only 1^ ozs .
, showing that in this case the force due to atmospheric pressure is almost eliminated .
For the same reason it is obvious that the force due to the attraction of the molecules of steel in the opposing Mr. H. M. Budgett .
[ Sept. 20 faces is quite negligible in comparison with those which we are considering , and it is not proposed to describe here the experiments which were made in this direction , although it is possible that these may he dealt with in a separate paper .
It seems probable that the results obtained by Tyndall in his experiments must be attributed to the presence of traces of grease or moisture on the surfaces of the plates rather than to molecular attraction , and we must conclude from our examination\#151 ; ( 1 ) That at least 75 per cent , of the adhesion is caused by the presence of a liquid film between the faces in contact .
( 2 ) That not more than 25 per cent , is due to atmospheric pressure .
( 3 ) That the adhesion practically vanishes when no film is present .
( 4 ) That the attraction of the molecules of steel in one face by the molecules of steel in the opposite face is negligible .
If we assume that the film is continuous and covers the whole area of the steel , then , since the distance between the blocks is very small , it is known that F = 2AT Id , where F is the force drawing the blocks together , T is the surface tension of the liquid , A is the area of the faces , and d is the distance between them .
In the case of a paraffin film , F is 46 lbs. ( from Table I ) , T is 31 dynes per centimetre , or about 0*00017 lbs. per inch , A is 0*7 square inch .
Substituting these values , we find that the theoretical distance between the blocks is approximately 0*000005 inch .
Their distance apart must actually be less than this , as , even when several blocks are wrung together , no increase in their total length , as compared with the sum of their separate lengths , can be detected on an extremely sensitive measuring machine .
Microscopic examination , however , shows that the applied films are far from being continuous membranes .
Fig. 1 is a micro-photograph showing the distribution of a paraffin film before the blocks have been put together .
It will be seen that the liquid is collected into small drops , which are still left adhering to the steel after the faces have been wiped .
Attempts were made to obtain a more uniform distribution of the liquid by a method mentioned by Lord Rayleigh in his recent article on " Breath Figures."* The point of a blowpipe flame was rapidly passed over the clean faces of the blocks , in the hope that after cooling a more even film of condensed water vapour would be obtainable .
It was found , however , that oxydisation took place and the faces were impaired .
No improvement in the film * 'Nature , ' May 25 , 1911 .
The Adherence of Flat'Surfaces .
\lt ; 1911 .
] distribution was noticeable after the blocks had been washed in strong caustic potash , or momentarily dipped in dilute nitric acid .
' It is , of course , impossible to photograph the film when the blocks are together , but , by going through tlfe process of wringing and then sliding ; .
y ; \ %\ f A- V ' S / \#166 ; -V 4 % .1 * : #.V f m-%*v ' ^\#166 ; K ' % \#166 ; * ; .
-Vv# ; 4 .
.\ V't ' '-T t'A ; . !
\#187 ; './ \#166 ; Aa .
j y. V\ \ V ' i i MSm Fig. 1.\#151 ; ( x 206 diams .
) .
the blocks apart , it is possible to gain a fair idea of the effect of wringing upon the distribution of the film .
Fig. 2 , which was obtained in this way with the paraffin film , shows that the small drops have been drawn out and distributed in thin lines , which are approximately equally spaced and parallel .
These lines are spread over the whole of the faces of the blocks , and their uniformity is very remarkable .
The approximate total length of these lines was ascertained in order to determine what pull would be necessary to overcome surface tension across a section of the liquid midway between the faces of the blocks ; the edges of the liquid being normal to 32 Mr. H. M. Budgett .
[ Sept. 20 , Fig. 2.\#151 ; ( x 176 diams .
) .
the faces at all points on this section .
The distance between the lines was measured by means of a micrometer eyepiece , and by taking a number of Section--* --readings at various points on the surface , it was found that there were on the average about 170 lines per millimetre .
Since these lines completely cover the faces of the blocks it is easy to calculate their total length .
The area of the faces is 0*7 sq .
in .
or 450 sq .
mm. , and the length per square millimetre is 170 mm. , so that the total length is approximately 7650 cm .
In calculating the surface tension we have to take each side of the lines into consideration , so that L = 2 x 7650 = 15,300 cm .
T is 31 dynes per centimetre for paraffin .
Also 1911 .
] The Adherence of Flab Surfaces .
33 Hence , if P is the pull required to overcome surface tension at this .section , we have , P = TL = 31 x 15,300 = 474,300 dynes , or , slightly over 1 lb. We must , therefore , conclude that only a very small proportion of the force necessary to rupture the film ( assuming it to break in the centre ) is due to the ordinary phenomena of surface tension , and consequently that Fig. 3.\#151 ; ( x 234 diams .
) .
the molecular cohesion of the liquid must bear practically the whole of the strain across this section .
Fig. 3 is a micro-photograph showing the distribution of the paraffin after the blocks have been pulled apart , and at first sight it is not easy to say whether the film has broken in the middle , leaving one half on each block , or whether the liquid has parted from the steel .
The former appears to be the case , as it is unlikely that the distribution would be so uniform if the liquid were torn away from the metal , in which case one would expect to VOL. LXXXVI.\#151 ; A. D Mr. H. M. Budgett .
[ Sept. 20 , find patches free from moisture on one of the blocks .
As the liquid always appears to be distributed very equally between each of the blocks after breakage has occurred , even when one of them has been left perfectly dry before wringing , it is probable that rupture takes place in the liquid itself .
In 1877 it was shown by Prof. .
Osborne Reynolds* that liquids , from which air bubbles have been carefully expelled , can withstand a considerable pull without rupture .
Prof. Worthington , f employing a method discovered by Berthelot , J of allowing a liquid to cool in a sealed glass tube which it completely filled when warm , obtained a tension of over 17 atmospheres with alcohol before breakage , * whilst by the same method Messrs. Dixon and JolyS recorded a tension of 7 atmospheres for water .
Amongst these experimenters there is a consensus of opinion that the liquid parts from the tube ( possibly owing to a bubble forming more easily on the glass ) so that the ultimate breaking strain of the liquid itself is not determined in this manner .
Referring to fig. 2 , we see that before breakage the film certainly does not cover more than one-half of the area of the faces ; when the pull is applied and the liquid is drawn out the area must become much less .
This is borne out by fig , 3 , showing how the paraffin is collected together into little drops , quite separated , and covering not more than one-tenth of the area of the steel .
It is probable that just before breakage occurs the cross section is still further reduced , but for purposes of calculation we will take it that the area of paraffin under strain is one-tenth of the area of the faces of the blocks , i.e. , 0*07 square inch .
Pilms of condensed water vapour and turpentine evaporate too quickly to allow of microscopic examination ; but assuming that the cross section of the liquid in these cases is the same , viz. , 0*07 square inch , and making the necessary deductions for atmospheric pressure and surface tension from the values given in Table I , we obtain the following results:\#151 ; Liquid .
Average breaking strain .
Maximum breaking strain .
Condensed water vapour Turpentine lbs. per sq .
in .
443 371 343 lbs. per sq .
in .
871 514 .
614 Paraffin * 'Memoirs of the Manchester Lit. and Phil. Society/ session 1877-78 .
t ' Phil. Trans.,5 A , 1892 , p. 355 .
% 'Ann .
de Chimie,5 1850 , vol. 30 , pp. 232\#151 ; 237 .
S 'Phil .
Trans.,5 B , 1895 , p. 568 .
The Adherence of Flat Surfaces .
1911 .
] These figures for the ultimate breaking strain of liquids are far higher than those previously obtained by other methods , probably owing to the fact that no air hubbies of any magnitude can possibly be present in the films , and the action of wringing the blocks together must bring the liquid into very intimate contact with the steel .
It does not appear to be likely that results of this magnitude could ever be obtained with larger volumes of the liquids , and , in fact , if the thickness of the film is increased the pull required to cause separation rapidly diminishes .
Thus if the blocks , when cold , are held by a person having very warm , damp hands , an excess of moisture is deposited upon the steel , and it is difficult to obtain any wringing effect until the blocks have warmed up and some of the liquid has evaporated .
It appears that there is a limit to which the thickness of the film can be reduced , and when this is reached the liquid will seize to the steel .
The sliding and twisting of the blocks tend to further reduce the thickness by spreading the liquid , and this action is strongly resisted by the film , considerable force being necessary to move the blocks over one another .
Soft metals will not stand the strains put upon them in this manner by the films between them , and pieces may actually be dragged out of their polished surfaces .
This is also very noticeable in glass , and it is essential that optical proof planes should be perfectly free from grease before use , as otherwise they will be ruined .
During the manufacture of lenses and proof glasses the faces are always cleaned with spirit or benzine before being put together , but this precaution appears to be taken more as a matter of traditional routine than owing to the knowledge of why it is necessary .
As a result of our examination , we are led to the following conclusions :\#151 ; 1 .
Breakage occurs in the liquid itself , and not between the liquid and the steel .
2 .
Only 4 per cent , of the force required to rupture the film is due to surface tension .
3 .
The remaining 96 per cent , must be necessary to overcome the molecular cohesion of the liquid .
4 .
The tensile strength of water may , under special conditions , amount to nearly 60 atmospheres .
The author 's thanks are due to Mr. E. Senior for the care which he has taken in the difficult task of preparing the micro-photographs to illustrate this paper .

