[ 503 ] XIX .
On the Skull , B ) am , and Auditory Ovgan a now species 0/ Pterosaurian ( Scaphognathus Purdoni ) , from the Upper ' Lias near Whitby , Yorkshire .
By E. T. Newton , F.G.S. , F.Z.S. , Geological Survey .
Communicated by Archibald Geikie , F.R.S. , Director-General of the Geological Survey .
Received March 1 , \#151 ; Read March 22 , 1888 .
[ Plates 78 .
] Introductory .
The Bev .
D. W. Purdon , of Wolverhampton , obtained some years ago , from the Alum Shale-* at Lofthouse , near Whitby , the skull of a Pterodactyl .
This was brought to me last autumn , much obscured by the surrounding hard matrix .
As the specimen seemed likely to repay a careful study , the owner 's permission was obtained to clear away more of the matrix ; and to him my best thanks are due for the very courteous manner in which he left the fossil in my hands , to be treated in whatever way was best calculated to develop its structure and add to its scientific value .
By careful work with the chisel I succeeded in laying bare much more of the skull , and it has proved to be of unexpected value , and , for several reasons , of exceptional interest .
In the first place , no Pterodactyl remains have previously been recorded from the Yorkshire Lias ; in the second place , the form is certainly new , and seems nearly related to the Continental Oolitic species , P. Again , this skull has undergone little or no compression , and consequently the natural relations of the bones are well preserved , and the structures of the basal portions , including the palate and back of the skull , are better shown than in any Pterosaurian from this side of the Atlantic hitherto described . !
And still further , the form of the brain and parts of the auditory organ being preserved , their structure and relation to the entire skull can now be studied in a manner not previously possible .
Description of Skull .
This Pterodactyl skull , in its present condition , measures five-and-a-half inches in length ( 140 mm. ) ; but , as the snout , from just in front of the nasal apertures , is * My colleague , Mr. Barrow , tells me this must be the Alum Shale of the Upper Lias .
t The skull of Pteranodon longiceps , as given by Professor Marsh , seems to be in a very perfect condition ; but it has not yet been fully described .
See ' Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ' vol. 27 , 1884 , p. 423 .
22.12.88 wanting , its proper length is uncertain\#151 ; probably , when perfect , it was about two inches longer .
The extremely thin outer plates of the bones are almost all broken away ; this , however , is not altogether a disadvantage , for not only has it exposed several casts of the air cavities , that seem to have occupied the interior of every bone , but the margins of many of the bones are now shown , which , if the external layer had been intact , would probably have been obscured .
Both sides of the skull are somewhat broken , but what is wanting on one side is preserved on the other .
The supra-occipital region was also broken away when the specimen came into my hands .
In a lateral view ( Plate 78 , figs. 2 , 3 ) there are five distinct apertures .
The anterior one is the elongated nasal aperture ( e.n. ) ; behind this is the somewhat larger ant-orbital fossa ( ant .
orb .
) or median aperture ; and then comes the orbit ( orb .
) , the last named being the largest of the five .
Behind the orbit are the infra-temporal fossa ( inf.tem .
) and the supra-temporal fossa ( best seen in Plate 77 , fig. 1 , sup. tem .
) , and these are smaller than any of the other three .
The whole of the snout in front of the nasal apertures seems to be formed by the premaxillse { pm .
) , which bound these openings anteriorly and above ; on the palate ( fig. 4 ) they are firmly united , and form a plate of bone extending from one alveolar margin to the other , these margins standing as a ridge on each side , with a shallow depression running along just within them .
Another groove runs along the middle , deepening as it approaches the internal nasal apertures .
A slight ridge is seen in the middle of the groove , which passing back , joins what is evidently the vomer The bony palate extends backwards for some distance on the outer side of the internal nares ; but it seems probable that the portion behind the line seen passing obliquely forwards and outwards from each of these apertures may be a palatal portion of the maxilla .
If this be so , then some of the teeth probably belonged to the maxilla .
On the middle of the upper surface of the skull ( fig. 1 ) a long tract of bone , which I believe to be an extension of the premaxilke , runs backwards , and , separating the nasals and pre-frontals , reaches the frontals at about the anterior third of the orbit .
On the outer side ( fig. 3 ) the premaxilla , after forming the lower boundary of the external nares for about three-fourths of an inch , seems to overlap and lie external to the maxilla , but how far it extended backwards is uncertain , possibly it may have run some distance below the ant-orbital fossa .
On the right side , the alveoli foi four flattened teeth may be seen .
The first , at the extreme end of the specimen , is small , having a long diameter of 2'5 mm. ; after an interval of 5'0 mm. , there is a second alveolus , with a long diameter of 5'0 mm. and a short diameter of 3 5 mm. Another interval of 6'0 mm. , and a third alveolus of 4*0 mm. ; again , a space of 6-5 mm. , and then the fourth alveolus , 4'2 mm. in diameter .
On the left side traces of similar alveoli are seen , but they are less perfect .
The right maxilla ( fig. 3 , rnx .
) is better preserved than the left , and its front part appears to be on the inner side of the premaxilla , but the junction of the two bones is very obscure , as it is in Birds .
Posteriorly the maxilla has two processes ; one AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
505 extending upwards and backwards forms the hinder two-thirds of the lower boundary of the nasal aperture , and then joins the bone which is believed to be the lachrymal , above the ant-orbital fossa .
The second or lower process is narrow and extends backwards to the jugal region .
At this point , on the right side , the maxilla is broken away ; but the portion here wanting is present on the left side ( fig. 2 ) , where it comes below the lower angle of the jugal and seems to meet the quadratojugal ( qu.ju.).The jugal is a V-shaped bone ( fig. forming the lower boundary of the orbit ; one limb , passing upwards in front of the orbit , meets the lachrymal ; the other limb rises behind the orbit , and has its posterior edge occupied by the quadrato-jugal .
On the right side ( fig. 4 ) the lower part of the jugal is seen to be inclined forwards and to lie on the inner side of the maxilla .
This V-shaped jugal is quite unlike any of the bones in a Bird 's jugal arch ; but in Lacerta agilis , and other Lizards* the jugal bone has a somewhat similar form , extending backwards from the lachrymal below and then upwards behind the orbit , where it meets the post-orbital .
The quadrato-jugal ( fig. 2 , qu .
forms a vertical triangular plate behind the jugal , the base of the triangle being below and the apex extending upwards to meet the post-orbital ( pt.o .
) .
From the lower and hinder part of the quadrato-jugal a splint of bone runs up the front and outer margin of the quadrate ( qu .
) .
On the right side ( fig. 3 ) the jugal , quadrato-jugal , and quadrate are much broken .
In all Birds the quadrato-jugal is a slender bone and quite unlike this bone in the Pterodactyl , while it is wanting in all Lizards except and in this the lowrer temporal bar is formed by the jugal bone , while the quadrato-jugal is fixed to the outer side of the quadrate.t The Yorkshire Pterodactyl has the lower temporal bar much reduced in antero-posterior extent , wdfile its distance from the supra-temporal bar is proportionately greater ; it is not surprising , therefore , to find the quadrato-jugal , as well as the jugal , with a greater vertical than horizontal extent .
At the hinder end of the external nostril on the left side ( fig. 2 , en .
) there is a portion of a bone ( na .
) which , when perfect , probably extended from the premaxillary process above to that of the maxilla below , thus forming the hinder boundary of the nasal aperture , and sending backwards a narrow slip between the lachrymal ( la .
) and pre-frontal ( p.fr .
) , terminated just in front of the anterior corner of the orbit .
This bone occupies the position of the nasal .
Two elongated convex tracts seen on the upper surface of the skull are thought to indicate the positions of two large pre-frontals| ( figs. 1 , and 3 , p.fr .
) , which would thus be separated from each other by the long premaxillary processes ; anteriorly and * Parker , 1 Phil. Trans. , ' 1879 , Plate 42 , fig. 3 ; and ' Zool. Soc. drans .
, vol. 11,1881 , Plate 16 , fig. 1 .
t Baur , ' Zoologischer Anzeiger , ' No. 238 , 1886 .
f Since the above was written I have had the opportunity of showing the specimen to Dr. G. Baur , of Yale College , who has so carefully studied the skull of and he suggests the possibility of the area , which I have , with some doubt , called pre-frontal , being only part of the bone marked as nasal .
It is by no means clear that these two areas can represent a single bone ; but , if they qo , then tlieie will be no distinct pre-frontal bone.\#151 ; E. T. Newton , Sept. 25 , 18b8 .
externally they are bounded by the nasals , and posteriorly by the frontals ( Jr. ) , each of which sends forward a slender process separating the pre-frontal from the orbit .
The frontal bones themselves occupy the upper part of the skull between the orbits , of which they form the upper boundary ; how far they extended backwards is uncertain , as the parietal and supra-occipital regions have been broken away , but probably they covered the whole of the cerebrum ( cb .
) .
In the front region of each cerebral lobe the inner and outer tabulae of the frontal hone , when perfect , evidently met , and , shutting out the air cavity at this point , apparently formed one thin bony plate .
Within the anterior angle of the orbit ( figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) lies the excavated hinder end of a bone ( la.)which extends forwards , below the nasal bone , to meet the superior process of the maxilla ( nix .
) , and downwards along the front border of the jugal , thus forming the upper and hinder boundary of the ant-orbital fossa .
This bone has the characters and relations of the lachrymal .
The upper and hinder margin of the orbit is separated from the supra-temporal fossa by a buttress of bone , springing from the hinder frontal region , which occupies the position of post-frontal and post-orbital hones , and may include both these elements , as in Sphenodon.* Externally this buttress arches downwards , and meets the ascending process of the quadrato-jugal , and possibly that of the jugal also .
To what extent the post-orbital enters into the formation of the supra-temporal bar is uncertain , no sutures being seen ; but probably the post-orbital and squamosal form about equal parts .
In Sphenodon the triradiate post-orbital ( marked m. by Dr. Gunther ) meets the squamosal to form this bar ; and Professor W. K. Parkeut has shown that the same arrangement occurs in the Chameleon .
Moreover , the skulls of Pterodactylus crassi-rostris\ and Dimorphodon macronyx\both appear to have the supra-temporal bar formed in this same manner .
The supra-temporal fossa is bounded behind by another buttress of bone , the upper part of which arises from the parietal region of the skull ( figs. 1 and 5 ) , and the lower part is in close relation with the auditory capsule .
Judging from the intimate structure of the skull in Chamceleo , Lacerta , and other forms of Lacertilia , with which Professor Parker has made us so fully acquainted , || the upper proximal part of the bar will be formed by the parietal , and this , resting upon the auditory capsule , will probably include parts of the otic bones .
The external part of the bar is no doubt formed by the squamosal , which gives a point of attachment for the quadrate , and doubtless forms , with the post-orbital , the supra-temporal bar .
The squamosal , as we shall presently see , is supported behind by the parotic process , which wraps round the * * * S * See Gunther on Eatteria .
' Phil. Trans. , ' 1867 , pt .
2 , Plate 1 , fig. 4 , bones marked Z. and Also , Baur , ' Zoologischer Anzeiger , ' No. 240 , 1886 .
f ' Zool. Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 11 , 1881 , Plate 16 .
+ Goldfuss , 'Nova Acta Leopold .
, ' vol. 15 , 1831 , Plates viii .
and ix .
S Owen , ' Palseontogr .
Soc. : Reptiles of the Lias , Plate 20 , 1869 .
|| 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1879 , p. 595 ; and 'Zool .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 11 , 1881 , p. 77 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
upper part of the quadrate .
The post-temporal fossa ( fig. 5 , which is so well seen in Sphenodon and is extremely large in the common Chameleon , is here very small , being reduced to an oval slit .
The base of the cranium ( figs. 4 and 5 ) is remarkable in that its height is greater than its antero-posterior extent .
At the back there is a broad plate of bone , about 13 mm. wide , which extends from the foramen magnum downwards and forwards for about 15 mm. The occipital condyle is wanting ; but on each side , and a little below the level of the foramen magnum , there is a large and deep depression ; doubtless it is the foramen for the exit of nerves ( probably ninth , tenth , and twelfth ) .
Near the middle of each side of the flattened base there is a prominent rounded process .
Below this the base narrows somewhat , and from its lower and anterior edge two long rodlike bones or processes ( bp.p .
) pass down to the inner angle of the quadrate .
This is very like the base of the Chameleon 's skull , except that it is more nearly vertical , and doubtless , like it , includes the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid , as well as parts of the exoccipitals ; but no sutures remain to show the extent of each .
The long rods are probably the homologues of the basi-pterygoid processes of the sphenoid , but their great length suggests the possibility of their being separate bones .
The front of the basi-sphenoid descends almost vertically , and then curves forwards as it divides into the two basi-pterygoids .
On each side of the foramen magnum there is a large paroccipital process ( fig. 5 , op.ot .
) , which extends outwards , leaving an oval space between itself and the post-temporal buttress ; but towards its distal extremity it expands into a broad fan-like plate , which is applied against the hinder and outer part of this buttress and wraps round the head of the quadrate , holding the latter bone , immovably as it seems , against the squamosal .
Precisely similar paroccipital processes are developed in Lizards , and Professor Parker* has shown that they are mainly formed by the opisthotic bones , the basal portion of each containing the lower and hinder parts of the posterior and horizontal semicircular canals .
The exoccipitals only form a small part of the base of these processes .
In the fossil the auditory semicircular canals have been traced ( see p. 511 ) , and are found to have this same relation to the base of the paroccipital process .
At the outer end of each paroccipital process , and forming the hindermost angles of the skull , there seems to have been a small separate bone , which occupies the position of and probably is the supra-temporal , a bone said to be constantly present in Lizards .
The front and side of the brain case have been exposed by clearing away the matrix from the orbit and temporal fossa on the right side , and its relatively small size is snown in fig. 3 a , where it is represented without the supra-temporal bai , so as to show the parts more clearly .
The sides of the cranium are completely ossified , but in front theie is a laige rounded aperture .
Through the lower part of this opening , no doubt , the optic nerves * Loc .
cit. 50s MR. E. T. NEWTON ON THE SKULL , BRAIN , AND passed ; and it is tolerably certain , therefore , that the pre-sphenoids and orbito-sphenoids were not ossified .
A little below the large front opening , and towards the side , is an aperture completely surrounded by bone , through which in all probability the fifth nerve passed out of the cranium ( Plate 78 , fig. 3a , The quadrate forms a broad extent of bone , seen chiefly at the back of the skull ( figs. 2 , 4 , and 5 , qu .
) .
Its hinder part is convex from side to side , the inner and outer margins being directed forwards ; but , although wide , it seems to have been extremely thin , appearing upon the side of the head merely as a slender rod ( fig. 2 ) .
Its upper part is narrow , and wedged in between the squamosal and the broad end of the opisthotic or paroccipital process .
Passing downwards , it rapidly widens , leaving a comparatively small space between its upper part and the base of the skull ( fig. 5 ) .
The articulation for the lower jaw is wanting , but , judging from other specimens , little more than the rounded surface has been lost .
The inner and lower extremity of the quadrate is continued directly into the pterygo-palatine bar ( fig. 4 ) , the impressions of the bones at this point showing no indication of a division , the quadrate and pterygoid apparently being firmly attached , if not ankylosed .
The basi-pterygoid process meets the quadrate and pterygoid at their point of union , but , being broken at this part , one cannot say whether they were fixed to each other , although the manner in which the basi-pterygoid lies close along the inner edge of the distal part of the quadrate makes it probable that they were immovably attached .
Directly in front of the quadrate the pterygo-palatine bar widens , but the form of the bone at this point is uncertain , as it is somewhat broken ; however , it is clear that it formed a thin plate extending forwards to the point marked pi .
( fig. 4 ) .
The inner edge of this plate is thickened , and extends forwards continuously until it meets the triangular plate in the middle line ( m ) , which there can be little doubt is the vomer .
The outer margin of the pterygoid portion of the bar is also thickened , and at a distance of about 15 mm. from the quadrate comes very near to the slender extremity of the maxilla .
Some markings on the matrix at this part seem to indicate the former existence of bone , which may have been a transpalatine .
Goldfuss has described in P. crassirostrisa portion of bone in this position , which he calls a transverse bone.* The thin plate of the pterygo-palatine bar is nearly horizontal just in front of the quadrate , but , as it passes forwards , the outer edge descends and the inner rises a little towards the roof of the skull , thus tilting the plate ; and at a distance of about 25 or 30 mm. from the quadrate it divides into an inner and an outer portion , the slender inner rod extending to the vomer , as already noticed , while the outer portion , becoming more inclined , rapidly assumes a vertical position , and passing forward , evidently joins a palatine plate of the maxilla .
The actual junction of these two bones is not seen , but they can be traced to within 6 or 7 mm. of each other , and then a small piece has been broken away .
The long aperture ( about 35 mm. ) enclosed by the palatine behind and the maxilla with the vomer in front is , without doubt , the * 'Nova Acta Leopold .
, ' vol. 15 , 1831 , p. 76 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
509 internal nares ( fig 4 , in .
) , and anteriorly it is only separated by the vomer from the corresponding aperture of the opposite side .
The front of the internal nares is about 32 mm. further back than the front of the external nares .
The absence of any traceable division in what has been called above the pterygopalatine bar , and the large size of the basi-pterygoid process ( .
) , leads one to question whether the last-named bone may not be the pterygoid , and the bar in front of the quadrate the palatine only .
In the first place , it must be remembered that the fixity of all the bones of the Pterodactyl skull , and as a consequence the ankylosis of many of them , makes it probable that the bones of the palate would become soldered together ; and this certainly seems to have taken place at the junction of the quadrate with the bones of the palate .
The manner in which the front part of the bar bounds the hinder end of the internal nares leaves no doubt as to this portion being the palatine ; and as the normal position of the pterygoid is between the palatine and quadrate , the hinder part of the bar is believed to be the pterygoid .
It is true the pterygoid bone sometimes extends from the quadrate to the base of the skull , as in many Birds , but even when this is the case it still separates the palatine from the quadrate .
I am not aware of any case among Beptiles or Birds where the palatine comes into relation with the quadrate to the exclusion of the pterygoid .
That the basi-pterygoid process may be much elongated is seen among Birds in the Emu* and among Lizards in the Chameleon . !
In the Emu the relations of the bones are strikingly similar to what is seen in this Pterodactyl , for the long basi-pterygoid abuts upon the hinder end of the pterygoid close to the quadrate , just as in the fossil .
The basi-pterygoid of the Chameleon is similarly long , and directed forwards to support the pterygoid , while a backward process of the latter extends to the quadrate .
Taking into consideration the arrangement of the bones which we know occurs in Birds and Lizards , it seems much more in accordance with them to regard the bone which , in this Pterodactyl , extends from the base of the skull to the quadrate as an elongated basi-temporal process of the basi-sphenoid , and the bar in front ot the quadiate as the combined pterygoid and palatine bones .
Description of the Brain .
When this Pterodactyl skull was first brought to me , the fracture of the parietal and frontal bones had exposed a part of the cast of the cranial cavity in the ceiebral region , and it seemed likely that a cast of the whole interior of the skull had been preserved .
The small relative size of the cranium made it highly probable that the brain had originally filled the cavity , and , if so , the cast would give the form of the brain .
To expose this cast on one side , I obtained Mr. Purdon 's permission to remove a portion of the bone , and having raised the greater part ol the left frontal m * Huxley , \#171 ; Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1867 , p. 422 .
.f- Parker , ' Zool. Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 11 , 1881 , Plate 19 , fig. 2 .
one piece , little by little other parts were cleared away , until I had succeeded in exposing not only the cast of the left half of the brain , but also a large part of the auditory organ .
The form of the cast exposed leaves no doubt but that it represents the form of the Pterodactyls brain , just as much as would a cast taken from the skull of a Bird or Mammal ; and such casts show the natural external form of the brain even better than a brain itself , which , being very soft , is apt to be distorted and shrunken by the means adopted for its preservation .
Taking the cast , therefore , as representing the brain ( figs. 1 , 6 , and 7 ) , it will be seen to be relatively small , its greatest length , from the edge of the occipital foramen to the front of the cerebral lobes , being 25 mm. , and its greatest width\#151 ; that is , across the optic lobes\#151 ; 17 mm. ; it is therefore about one-sixth or one-seventh the length of the entire skull .
Each cerebral lobe is a somewhat depressed egg-shaped mass , wide behind , narrow in front , and separated from its fellow by a deep groove , which is naturally occupied by the inner edges of the frontals ; anteriorly , it is continued into a small triangular olfactory lobe , which can be traced for about 5 mm. in front of the cerebrum .
The thickness of each cerebral lobe is not quite as great as its width ( fig. 6 ) , and below , at about its hinder third , there is a depression or fissure .
A large optic lobe is placed directly behind the cerebral hemisphere , and is separated from it by a well-marked groove , which is seen on the side of the brain running upwards and backwards , and then over the upper surface to within 5 mm. of the middle line ( fig. 7 ) ; the optic lobe itself extends a little further inwards , and is then broken away , its height being a little greater than that of the cerebrum .
A second and shallower depression , seen on the upper surface of the brain , running round the back of the cerebral lobe , marks off a triangular space .
Unfortunately , the cerebellum is almost wholly wanting , and this is much to he regretted , as it is the relation of this to the optic lobes which is of so much interest when the possible relations between Birds and Pterodactyls are discussed .
However , we are not without some indications of its position , for on the right side , at the point marked cbl .
( figs. 1 , 6 , and 7 ) , a fragment of the cerebellum marks its hinder boundary to very nearly the middle line ; on the left side , the optic lobe is preserved to within 4 mm. of the middle line ; and between the hinder part of the cerebral lobes there is a small triangular rising , occupying the position of a pineal lobe .
The hinder boundary of the cerebellum is fixed , and it is also certain that it cannot have extended beyond the other points just noticed , and may not have extended quite so far .
The greatest length of the cerebellum could not have been more than 10 mm. or its wfidth more than 7 mm. It is tolerably clear , however , that the cerebellum extended between the optic lobes , somewhat as in Birds , and that the optic lobes did not separate the cerebrum from the cerebellum , as they do in all Reptiles .
Being anxious to corroborate this extension of the cerebellum between the optic lobes , I examined the Pterodactyl skulls in the British Museum , but without success .
Mr. R. Lydekker , however , showed me a specimen in the Fox collection which AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURTAN .
511 included a cranium ; and Dr. H. Woodward , with , his usual courtesy , had the specimen cut through longitudinally in the middle line .
This section exhibits the brain cavity under a considerable thickness of open cancellous bone .
The upper part |^f the cavity forms a double arch , one curve extending from the foramen magnum upwards and forwards for nearly half the length of the cavity , while the second and rather longer curve continues from this to the front .
The section being in the middle line , the anterior of these curves will be between the cerebral lobes , and consequently does not give their proper convexity , although showing their antero-posterior extent .
The hinder curve , as I understand it , is that of the cerebellum ; for if the optic lobes in any came between the cerebrum and the cerebellum , some slight indication of them ought to be seen by a break in the curve where the cerebellum ended .
No such mark is seen , and I conclude , therefore , that the cerebellum reached to the cerebrum in this Wealden specimen , and probably also in that from the Yorkshire Lias .
A little behind the optic lobe , and separated from it by a definite space , there is a large pyriform flocculus ( figs. X , 6 , and This body , which is somewhat flattened from above downwards , is attached by its broad end to the side of the hind brain just below the cerebellum , and is directed outwards and backwards .
Until exposed by the chisel the flocculus was contained in a cavity of the bone situated in the base of the hinder supra-temporal buttress at its junction with the opisthotic , and , consequently , immediately on the inner side of the post-temporal fossa ( fig. 5 ) , from which it was separated only by a thin plate of hone .
The lower and outer edge of the flocculus is marked by a depression or groove , which divides it into a larger proximal and a smaller distal portion .
The finding of this flocculus was as advantageous as it was unexpected , for although not seen in Lizards , it is present in Birds , and has served as a landmark in exploring the auditory region .
Sensory Organs .
If the interior of a Bird 's skull be examined , such as that of a Goose , there will be found on each side , in the region of the auditory organs , a large recess hollowed out of the bony periotic capsule .
( A similar cavity is found in some Mammals , such as the Babbit .
) This recess , as is well-known , is occupied by a lobule given off from the side of the hind brain , called the flocculus ; and around it the various parts of the internal ear are arranged .
Just below the entrance to this cavity are the foramina for the auditory nerves passing to the vestibule , which lies just below the inner part of the flocculus .
The anterior vertical semicircular canal arches over the entrance to the recess , close to the inner side of the skull , and the posterior vertical canal forms an arch just behind it ; while in a plane a little below and underneath it , the horizontal canal forms a segment of a circle , with the convexity turned outwards .
In clearing away the bone of the fossil surrounding the flocculus of the left side , a small tube filled with black matrix was found , arching over the pedicle of the flocculus 512 MR. E. T. NEWTON ON THE SKULL , BRAIN , AND and dipping down between it and the optic lobe .
This canal was removed from the left side , but its fellow is still seen in place on the right ( figs. 1 and 7 ) , and its position is precisely that of the anterior vertical semicircular canal of a Bird .
By carefully tracing this tube backwards and downwards another was uncovered , joining it and forming an arch behind the flocculus corresponding in position with the posterior semicircular canal of a Bird .
Having thus uncovered two of the canals , it seemed very probable that the third would be found under the flocculus .
The exploration here was more troublesome , as it was necessary to dig somewhat under the flocculus ; but a portion of a horizontal tube was at length discovered , which , although seemingly larger than the two placed vertically , is believed to be part of the horizontal semicircular canal .
The front limb of the anterior canal seems to be enlarged at its lower part , but of this one cannot speak with certainty ; and a similar enlargement is seen at the lower end of the hinder limb of the posterior canal .
These enlargements , it will be noticed , are in the same positions as the ampullae in Birds ; and indeed the close resemblance , in all essential particulars , which these canals in the fossil bear to those of the auditory apparatus of Birds , leaves no room for doubting that they had a similar function .
With regard to the fenestra ovalis we can now speak with confidence .
The quadrate and base of the skull being so similar in the Pterodactyl and in the Chameleon led one to expect that the fenestra ovalis would have a similar position in both ; and when the matrix was cleared away from the right side of the base of the fossil skull , within the temporal fossa , this aperture was found in a deep hollow just in front of the lower part of the paroccipital process ( fig. 3a , fo .
) .
Goldfuss in his description of Pterodactylus cra-ssirostris* noticed an aperture in this position which he thought might be the opening of the ear .
In Lizards which have an ear-drum the quadrate is curved over and forms an attachment for it ; but in the Chameleon , which has no external drum , the quadrate is straight and the outer end of the stapes abuts upon its inner side .
In the Pterodactyl the quadrate is similarly straight , and the fenestra ovalis is , in like manner , partly hidden behind it , and , from this resemblance in structure , it seems fair to infer that this Pterodactyl , like the Chameleon , had no ear-drum .
The sense of vision seems to have been keen in the Pterodactyl , for the orbits are wide , and the large size of the optic lobes may probably be taken as an indication that the eyes were well-supplied with nerves .
No sclerotic plates were found in this specimen , although careful watch was kept for them when clearing the matrix from the orbit .
The large size of the external nares might be thought to indicate a corresponding development of the sense of smell ; but the olfactory lobes are too small to justify such a conclusion .
* ' Nova Acta Leopold .
, ' vol. lo , p. 72 , Plate viii .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECTES OF PTEROSAURTAN .
Systematic Position of the Yorkshire Pterodactyl .
In considering the relation which this Pterodactyl bears to other Pterosauria , we may at once dismiss all the Cretaceous species , for the American forms are characterised by the absence of teeth , as well as by other peculiarities of the skull , while the British species which are represented by portions of the skull , so far as they are known , have a ridge along the palate , and the anterior premaxillary teeth directed forwards .
The anterior part of the snout being lost in the Yorkshire specimen , we do not know whether there were teeth in front or whether it terminated in an edentulous beak , as in Rhamphorhynchus ; but the large size of the external nares and ant-orbital fossae prevents a reference to that genus .
Nearly all the forms which are generally placed in the genus Pterodactylus have the nasal aperture larger than the ant-orbital fossa , the latter being very small , and in most cases the two spaces are not separated by bone .
Our fossil , therefore , will not agree with any of these .
There are two forms to which the Yorkshire fossil bears a closer resemblance , and these are Dimorphodon macronyx and Pterodactylus crassirostris .
The former , being from the Lias , may be first considered .
# is characterised by the presence of two forms of teeth in the lower jaw , a few larger ones in front , and numerous small ones just within the edge of the hinder part of the jaw .
Whether the Yorkshire specimen had these two kinds of teeth or not we do not know , and in the absence of this character , on which the generic distinction of largely rests , one could hardly refer it to that genus , even if their resemblances were greater than they are ; but it will be seen that the proportions of the skulls are quite different , as well as the relative sizes of the lateral apertures .
In Dimorphodon the nasal aperture is larger than the ant-orbital fossa , while the orbit is smaller than either of them .
In the Yorkshire skull the proportions are reversed , the nasal aperture being the smallest and the orbit the largest of the three .
The great height of the skull of Dimorphodon , in proportion to its length , and the slenderness of all the bones are quite unlike the Yorkshire fossil .
Although these characters by themselves might not be deemed sufficient for generic distinction , yet , seeing that the form next to be noticed makes a still nearer approach in the structure of its skull , one cannot but give the preference to that genus .
Pterodactylus crassirostris from the Lithographic Slates , as figured by Goldfuss , + von Meyer , | and Owen , S certainly makes a nearer approach to our fossil than does any other form yet described , and a comparison of the figures just referred to with those here given ( figs. 1-5 ) will show the close resemblance between them .
The general form is very Similar , and the relative proportions of the lateral apertures are * * * S * Owen , 4 Palseontogr .
Soc. : Reptiles of the Lias , ' 1869 and 1874 .
f 4 Nova Acta Leopold .
, ' vol. 15 , part 1 , p. 63 , Plate 7 .
+ 4 Fauna d. Vorwelt , ' p. 40 , Plate 5 .
S 4 Palseontogr .
Soc. : Cret .
Rept .
, ' 1851 , Plate 27 , figs. 2 , 3 , 4 .
the same in both ; indeed , so close is the agreement that the two cannot be generically separated , although there are points of difference which militate against their belonging to the same species .
The somewhat crushed condition of the skull of makes its true form a little uncertain , yet it seems tolerably evident that it was originally more depressed than in our fossil ; it has a median ridge extending , apparently , from the snout to the parietal region ; and the ant-orbital fossa is somewhat triangular .
The Yorkshire specimen , on the other band , has the ant-orbital fossa more oval , and there is a definite channel along the middle of the upper surface of the skull , between the large pre-frontals and continued over the frontals as far as they are preserved ; the teeth also seem to have been more numerous than in crassirostris .
These differences prevent the two specimens being placed in the same species , and their wide separation in time makes it still more certain that they are distinct forms .
Pterodactylus crassirostris , Goldfuss , has been thought by several writers on the Pterosauria to exhibit characters of the skull and other parts of the skeleton justifying its generic separation ; and in the year 1843 Professor Fitzinger# proposed for it the name of Pachyrhamphus , while in 1861 Professor Wagner !
suggested that of Scaphognathus .
Mr. It .
Lydekker has pointed out to me that Professor Fitzinger 's name , having already been used for a genus of Birds , is preoccupied and cannot be adopted , although it has the priority , and Professor Wagner 's name , Scaphognathus , must therefore be used .
I purpose naming the Yorkshire Pterodactyl after the gentleman to whom it belongs , as an acknowledgment of his patient kindness , which has permitted me to keep it sufficiently long to work out its points of interest , and to lay the results before the Boyal Society ; its name , therefore , will be Scaphognathus Comparison of Scaphognathus Purdoni with other Pterosaurians .
The skulls of Pterosauria , hitherto described , are for the most part in a condition which renders a close comparison with S.Purdoni of little value ; but still there are two or three forms which may with advantage be so compared .
Taking , in the first place , Dimorphodon macronyx , one can fully appreciate Sir R. Owen 's difficulty as to the extent of the maxilla , the terminations of which are so much obscured by the overlapping of the neighbouring bones .
If my interpretation of the bones of S. Purdoni be correct , then the bone marked by Sir R. Owen , No. 15 ( nasal ) ] : may possibly include also the pre-frontal , and the element marked No. 14 ( pre-frontal ) may be the lachrymal .
The region in D. macronyx between the numbers 21 and 26 is so # i Systema Reptilium/ p. 35 .
f ' Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber , ' Jabrg .
1861 , vol. 1 , p. 518 .
+ ' Palseont .
Soc. : Lias Rept .
, ' 1874 , Plate 20 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
like the corresponding part of S. Purdoni that it will probably be found to include parts of both jugal and quadrato-jugal .
The supra-temporal bar of D. macronyx was probably formed of two parts , as restored by Sir It .
Owen ( .but it is not easy to distinguish these elements in the specimens themselves , and it seems most probable , as already stated ( p. 506 ) , that the hinder of these two bones is the squamosal .
The rod marked No. 27 ( squamosal ) in Sir H. Owen 's restoration occupies the position of the bone which in S. Purdoni I have called the basi-pterygoid , and that numbered 28 ( tympanic ) is what we now commonly call the quadrate .
Not having seen the original specimen of S. I am only able to make comparison with the figures and restorations published by Goldfuss .
* There is in this specimen the same uncertainty as in D. macronyx as to the extent of the nasal and pre-frontal bones , and also of the premaxilla and maxilla .
There can be no doubt that the bar of bone separating the nasal aperture from the ant-orbital fossa is formed by the maxilla and not by the premaxilla , and it seems probable that the hinder bar of bonet is also a part of the maxilla ; but , as we have seen in S. Purdoni , it is quite possible that the premaxi]la may extend backwards for some distance on the outside of the maxilla .
The oblique line seen below the ant-orbital fossa is , I think , correctly interpreted by Goldfuss as the junction of the maxilla and jugal bones , the last-named bone being marked m by Goldfuss and 2 L by Owen .
If this region of the skull is formed as in S. Purdoni , and the general resemblance makes this almost certain , then the bone marked g by Goldfuss and 27 by Owen in his figure 3 will be a portion of the quadrato-jugal .
Goldfuss described the jugal arch as consisting of two parts .
The inner angle of the quadrate is seen to meet the long process from the basi-sphenoid , as described by Goldfusswhich process I should interpret as the basi-pterygoid process \ at this point also it meets the hinder part of the bar of bone seen in the orbit and crossing the ant-orbital fossa .
Goldfuss fully described this bar as including pterygoid , palatine , and transverse bones , an interpretation fully borne out by the study of S. Purdoni .
The slender rods of bone , one of which projects below the angle of the jaw , are no doubt correctly described as parts of the hyoid .
In Professor Quenstedt 's account of Pthe skull was fully described , and in 1871 Professor H. G. Seeley|j gave a translation of this description and suggested some modification in the interpretation of the bones .
It is acknowledged that the skull of this specimen is much pressed and twisted , and consequently the parts are somewhat out of place .
P. Suevicevidently had a long skull , the snout being proportionately more slender than in Purdoni , and more resembling that of * * * S * ' Nova Acta Leopold .
, ' vol. 15 , Part I. , Plates 7,8 , 9,1831 .
Reproduced by Owen , \#187 ; Palaeont .
Soc. , ' 1851 , Plate 27 , figs. 2 , 3 , 4 .
Owen , loc. cit. , fig. 3 , No. 22 .
t Loc.cit .
, Plate 7 , i. S * Ueber Pterodactylus Suevicus , ' 4to , 1855 .
|| ' Aim .
Mag. Not .
Hist. , ' ser. 4 , vol. 7 , p. 20 .
'LL 'd '1881 'il 'l0A .''SU13JX '0OS 'l''Z\gt ; 77 .AV Josaejojj J '891 'd '8481 l9Z 'lOA / 'BOHdBjSo^aoae^j , J 76 '^Id 'IS8I \lt ; ''''S 'khavo paa S 01 9^IX 'SI 'l0A \lt ; '-pLodo0rI \#171 ; PIE ^A'xS[ , 'ssnaa-ioo 9ag * * uopouvjidlj m punoj si qoiqM uoijypuoo gqj si syqa puB 'auoq iCq aAoqu joao pgjgAOO 0.1^ 98SSOJ jBJodragj-Bjdns aqj 'jsojo p3jidiooo jo juamdoyaAap jbjiuiis b si ojgqj ayiqAY t8 nnwnd odj\amp ; wm/ Qui jnq i qnqs aqj jo uoyggj gjppyui aqj puB JBq jBJodinaj-Bjdns 9qj jo spjBA\qouq uoisuajxa aqj yCq paSjBjua XjjBajS ojb qsssoj p3Jodraaj-Bjdns aqj gjgqM .
|'uo9{9in , BqQ aqq .
jo qnqs gqj jo Xyqpjoj auo Suipuimoj gjnjonjjs b i uoySaj yujidiooo 9i[^ uiojj spj'BAvqo'Bq uoisuaaxa gqiy-jsajg snouuoua jyaqj si 'qjggj jo gouasqB gqj S9piS9q 'sqnqs asaqj jo iCjiJBiynoad SuyqiJjs jsora aqj , -gjnjonjjs Jiaqj jo syiB^gp aqj ui mopingg aqqun Xjoa qSnoqcqB 'gjgq paoyjou 9q Amu 'spaq snogoBjgjQ UBoyjauiy uiojj 'hshyj\[ josssjoj^j Xq paqyjosap 'suBijnBSoqjyuj( ) ssayqjooj gyqBqjBuigj aqx 'sid'isoMSS'DJLO in sb 'saioads siqj ui JBq yBJodraaj-Bjdns \lt ; g jo 90U9S9.id gqj osjb suquoipui XyjugjBddu puB 'JBq jBJoduiaq .
jgAvoy gqj 'aAaiygq j '.si 'jf pgqjBin S9uoq oayj gqj 70 J9A\o[ 9qjj -uiBjjgoun Xi9A uoijBjajdjgjui jyaqj gqBiu 0 } sb 90B[d jo jno qonra os jnq 'jouyjsyp 9jb uoiSoj gyppira gqj ut souoq aqx .uauqggds ad/ j 9qj ui op 07 .
SU399S 71 sb qomn os jou jnq 'spjBMqoBq Suipuajxa uoy^gj yujidioooBjdns 9qa SMoqs puB 'gjyjua 9q 07 .
sui99S 9SB0 uiBjq gqx -sajnjjgdB jbsbu aqj gq oj jqSnoqj 9J9A\ 'u9iui09ds s^aaiSNanf ) J0SS9J0.IJ ui ' qoyqAi sjyys 9qj jo Suyqjou SA\oqs siqj puu j.'SYYakq HYOSQ u(j ^q psqyiosop U99q suq 'snoi\j oj pgjjgjgj 'uointoods aoqjouy .sauq jujoduioj -Badns jo jBSnf 9qj jo spiud 9q 'sduqaud 'Xura gg pojoqmnu souoq 9qj puu 'uoqoaq qoura si pusq 9qj jo jjud jgpuiq oqjQ , pyo\#163 ; \#163 ; i9jd u jo oouyd 9qj ui Xpugayu si '9^ joqranu 'auoq 9uj jo pug jgpuiq gqj 'j9A09J0ui 'puu 1 S9iy ^Cyjgdoad pioSi'jgjd gqj qoyqM uggAYjgq 'g^Bapunb puu guiquyud sqj uuqj goujd jo ^no ejora gq uoqj pynoAi jl joj 'pyoSiu9}d b 9q ubd qz pgqjBui sguoq gqj jo jgqqg juqj quyqj Jouiibo j viBq 9uipB['Bd-oS\#163 ; i9jd aq ; si '9X pgjgqranu puu 'siqj raojj pjBMJOj Suipugjxg auoq 9qj puu 'oq.'Bjp'Bub 9qj pguiBu Xyjoajjoo jqnop ou si 9^ jgqranyq " bssoj y'Bjyqjo-ju'B 9qj uiojj Qjnpiod'B yusuti gqj sajBJBdas qoyqAV 'bqix'Bui aqj jo ssaooad oqj qjuui piM 61 JQqnmn 'uoyjBjgjdjajui syqj oj ^uypjoooy *\lt ; 5 paqjuui 9uoq oqj Xjyyiquqojd yyB ui Suysq jgjjBy aqj i auoq p3suu 9qj ^ou puB 'ssooojd xCrBqixBuigjd gqj Xygjns si xaaiSNanf ) jossojojj Xq g pgjgqranu auoq 9qX 'A^oyaq paoyjou sayosds oqj jo uaraioods jaqqou'B ui U99S jou ojb puu sojbu joijojub Qqj joj qBuis i !
j9A iCyuiBjjgg 9jb ^aqj 'Suyqsnjo oj anp gq Xbui uoiSaj XjByyixBuiajd 9q^ jo 90BJJUS jgddn oqj uo sjiys jbsbu poquo-os oqx qynqs oqj jo gyoq 9]ppira , , *10 'bssoj yBjyqjo-jiiB aqj jo qouq puB ^uojj oqa qJBUi sy^jOBpojaj^ jaqjo ui qoiqM .
9soqj sb 9iubs aqj jo'u 9JB ^aqj ji 'puBjsjapun oj jynoiqip si ji qoiqAV 'uiSjbui jgddn 9\lt ; P niojj Suijogtbjd sassaoojd omj gjB asaqj uaaA\jaq f jiqjo jo gjnjjgdu pgpunoj jgpuiq 9*P puB '(uags gjB 97 pgjgqmnu sauoq aqj qoyqA\ qSnojqj ) gjn7JadB 'jbsbu jo 'joliojub 9^JBy auiBS gqj si ojgqx 'SU^somBuoi j ui ojb Xgqj jBqAi raojj y^gjgjdjgjuy Xy^ugjgjjip 9C1 Pinoqs qnqs aqa jo sajnjjadB |BjajB[ aqj XqAV puBjsjgpun jouubo j jnq 'uaqBjsyui gq ^duqaad 'iCuiu j 'uosiJBdraoo joj uorayoods yBUT\#174 ; iJO aqj SuiABq jojq ^'su^somSuoj \j aKY 'xiYHa trnn3S hhx ko koxa\3n : x a " aw AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAUR IAN .
but in the latter the crest is much larger , and the supra-temporal fossa ) are so completely covered in by bone that only a small post-temporal fossa can be seen in the published figures.# Professor Seeley , in his work on Ornithosauria , !
described two portions of skulls and the cast of a portion of a brain cavity , from the Cambridge Greensaud , as remains of Pterodactyl , giving evidence of the form of the brain .
These specimens , with the addition of a frontal bone , were further described in 1871 , and from this evidence , restored figures of the brain were given .
J In another communication on the same subjectS one of these specimens was omitted , as it was thought to be part of a Bird ; and as such was described with other Avian remains .
|| The second portion of skull !
still referred to Pterodactyl , I have carefully compared with the Yorkshire specimen , and am inclined to agree with Professor Seeley 's identification ; but its fragmentary condition prevents , as it seems to me , a definite determination , and possibly it may be Avian .
The cast figured on the same plate ( figs. 10 , 11 , and 12 ) represents a pair of cerebral lobes , and perhaps a part of the cerebellum behind and between them , and in form agrees fairly well with the form of the cerebral lobes in S. The indications of the form of the brain , shown by the portion of skull , ** are not sufficient to allow of comparison with S. Purdoni the rounded bodies seen at the sides are doubtless a pair of optic lobes , but unfortunately we cannot see how far they extended up the sides of the brain ; they seem , however , to be more definitely marked off from the cerebral lobes than these bodies are in the Yorkshire specimen .
Comparison of the Pterodactyl Skull with those of Birds and Lizards .
The resemblances between Pterodactyls and Birds and Lizards have often been dwelt upon by writers on the Pterosauria ; and it has been very generally agreed that these aberrant fossil creatures showed striking affinities to both these groups of living animals ; but Professor Seeley would assign them a position much nearer to Birds than most naturalists have been willing to allow , and in doing this he has laid great stress upon the characters of the brain deducible from the specimens alluded to above .
The clearer light which S. Purdoni throws upon the structure of the Pterosaurian skull and brain lends a fresh interest to a renewed comparison with the two groups of the Sauropsida , and in some points strengthens Professor Seeley 's position .
When the skulls of Birds and Lizards are compared they are found to have many ^ * Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ' vol. 27 , 1884 , p. 423 ; and 4 Geol .
Mag. , vol. 1 , 1884 , p. 345 .
f c Ornithosauria , ' 1870 , p. 77 .
x 'Ann .
Mag. Not .
Hist. ' ser. 4 , vol. 7 , p. 20 .
S ' Linn. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 13 , 1876 , p. 84 .
j| ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ , ' vol. 32 , 1876 , p. 496 .
' Ornithosauria , ' Plate 11 , figs. 1 and 2 .
** Log. dt .
, Plate 11 , figs. 1 and 2 .
structures in common , and we are not surprised therefore to find that several of the characters presented by the Pterodactyl skull are found in both these groups ; but it is obvious that , while such characters may be evidence of near affinity to the Sauropsida , they do not show to which of the two groups the Pterodactyls are most nearly related .
It is the characters which serve to distinguish between the skulls of Birds and Lizards which in the present instance will be of most service , and the more important of these will now be noticed .
1 .
The large size of the brain case , in proportion to the rest of the skull , in Birds , is one of their most marked characters when compared with Lizards .
2 .
The quadrate , pterygoid , and palatine bones are moveable on the skull in Birds , but more or less fixed in Lizards .
3 .
In Birds the hinder end of the palatine and front end of the pterygoid are brought into close relation with the rostrum of the sphenoid , and , in all but struthious Birds , are distinctly articulated with the rostrum .
This is not the case with Lizards .
4 .
The orbit is rarely completed by bone in Birds , and when it is so completed it is not by the jugal bone .
In Lizards the orbit is surrounded by bone , and the jugal forms part of it .
5 .
In Birds there is no pre-frontal bone , while it is always present in Lizards ; but it may be noted that in some Birds , such as the Goose , the upper part of the nasal bone , where divided across by the " hinge , " has much the appearance and occupies the position of a pre-frontal .
6 .
No Bird has the supra-temporal bar , which is always developed in Lizards .
7 .
The back of the skull in Lizards is characterised by a pair of large paroccipital processes , developed from the opisthotic bones , which run outwards and meet the posttemporal buttress and quadrate .
In Birds there is no such bar , the paroccipital being short and formed chiefly by the exoccipital .
8 .
In Birds the bones of the cranium are early ankylosed , while in Lizards they nearly always remain separate .
9 .
In Birds the premaxillae are large and united to form one bone , which sends backwards a long process ( sometimes divided ) , nearly , if not quite , reaching the frontals .
Lizards usually have the premaxillae small , and there may be but one .
10 .
The ant-orbital fossa , which is present in Birds , is only occasionally indicated in Lizards ( Lyriocephalvs , fide Owen ) , and is absent in some Pterodactyls .
11 .
In Birds there is a lower temporal bar of bone extending from the maxilla to the quadrate .
This bar is not completed by bone in any Lizard except However , other Reptiles have this lower bar as strongly developed as in Pterodactyls^ In the first seven of the above characters the skull of Purdoni agrees with Lizards , and not with Birds .
In the characters numbered 8 and 9 S. Purdoni agrees with Birds , and not with Lizards .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
519 The last two characters , numbered 10 and 11 , being variable , afford no evidence of the affinities of Pterodactyls .
Comparison of the Pterodactyl Brain with those of Birds and Lizards .
In an upper or in a side view of the brain of a Beptile one sees behind the cerebral hemispheres a pair of more or less rounded optic lobes , and behind these again the single rounded cerebellum .
This separation of the cerebrum from the cerebellum by the optic lobes occurs in all Beptiles , although the form and proportions of the parts may vary ; thus in Chelonians the cerebrum is elongated , while in Alligators it is rounded and globose .
The most striking characteristic of a Bird 's brain as compared with that of any Reptile is its much larger size in proportion to the bulk of the skull .
The brain of a Bird seen from above seems , at first sight , to have no optic lobes , for directly behind the inflated cerebrum there is the cerebellum ; the latter has , in fact , increased in size , and grown forwards between the optic lobes , which have thus been pressed outwards and downwards .
At the same time the cerebrum has also enlarged , and , pressing backwards , has overlapped the optic lobes and shut them out from forming any part of the upper surface of the brain .
In a side view , however , the optic lobe is seen as a rounded body quite at the lower part of the brain , and almost hidden by the cerebrum .
Another peculiarity of the Bird 's brain is the process from each side of the medulla , which occupies the fossa on the inner side of the periotic capsule , and is called the flocculus .
I am not aware of this having been observed in Reptiles .
The brain of Scaphognathus Purdoni , it will be seen , agrees with that of the Reptile in its small size in proportion to the skull , in the relatively large size of the optic lobes , and in those bodies being placed behind the cerebrum on the upper surface of the brain .
It is tolerably certain that the cerebellum intervened between the two optic lobes , and in this particular , therefore , the brain resembled that of the Bird and differed from that of the Reptile .
At the side of this fossil brain the optic lobe extends from the upper to the lower surface \ its presence on the uppei suiface is , as we have seen , a Reptilian character ; and its presence as a lounded mass on the lower surface is an Avian character .
The most important chaiacters m which this Pterodactyl brain resembles that of a Bird is in the extension of the cerebellum between the optic lobes , in the possession of flocculi , and in the optic lobes forming rounded masses at the base of the brain .
The relations of these brains will , perhaps , be best appreciated by placing the characters in a tabular form , thus : Bird brain .
S. Purdoni brain .
Reptile brain .
1 .
Brain relatively large 2 .
Cerebellum between optic lobes 3 .
Optic lobes at base .
4 .
Optic lobes not at top 5 .
Flocculi present ... .
1 .
Brain relatively small .
2 .
Cerebellum between optic lobes 3 .
Optic lobes at base .
4 .
Optic lobes at top ... .
5 .
Flocculi present ... .
1 .
Brain relatively small 2 .
Cerebellum not between optic lobes , but behind them 3 .
Optic lobes not at base 4 .
Optic lobes at top 5 .
Flocculi not present The Pterodactyl brain described by Professor Seeley has already been alluded to , and I am not aware of any other fossil Peptile brain with which that of S. Purdoni could be profitably compared .
No comparison of the skull and brain of a Pterodactyl would be complete which did not take into account those remarkably Reptilian Birds the Archaeopteryx and the toothed Birds of North America .
The skull of Archceopteryx has been described by Professor W. Dames , # and Dr. H. Woodward has reproduced the enlarged figure of it.t The presence of teeth in the front of the jaw , and the distinct ant-orbital fossa completely separated from the orbit by a bony bar give to this skull a strong resemblance to that of a Ptero-saurian .
Unfortunately , the back of the head is broken ; but , in so far as one can judge from the figures , it and the brain which it protected were relatively as large as in ordinary Birds .
On the slab containing the remains of Archcrop)feryx , in the British Museum , there is a " bilobed projection/ ' which Dr. J. Evans , no doubt correctly , described as a cast of part of the interior of the brain cavity ; J but this is not sufficiently well preserved to allow of a comparison being made .
The skulls of Hesperornis and Ichthyornis , described by Professor Marsh , S depart from the ordinary Avian type and approach Reptiles in the relatively small size of the brain case and in the possession of teeth ; in these particulars they also resemble Pterosaurians ; but in other particulars they conform to ordinary Bird characters .
Casts of the brain cavities of both Hesperornis and Ichthyornis have been described , || and these indicate a brain more like that of S. Purdoni than is that of any othei Bird or Reptile with which I am acquainted .
The two forms of toothed Birds have such similar brains that it will only be necessary here to speak of one of them .
The relatively small size of the cranial cavity of Hesperornis is well shown by Professor Marsh s figures , H where the brain and skull of a Loon ( torquatus ) are compared with * * ' Berlin , Palaeont .
Abhandl .
, ' vol. 2 , part 3 , 1884 , p. 119 .
f ' Geol .
Mag. , ' vol. 1 , 1884 , pi .
14 , and ' Geol .
Assoc. Proc. , ' vol. 9 , 1886 , p. 360 .
+ \lt ; Not .
Hist. Rev. , ' vol. 6 , 1865 , p. 415 ; reprinted with further remarks as a separate pamphlet , bvo .
, London , 1881 .
S ' IJ .
S. Geol .
Expl .
40th Parallel Report/ vol. 7 , 1880 , p. 9 .
|| Loc .
cit. , pp. 9 and 122 .
Loc .
cit. , p. 9 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
those of Hesperornis , the great difference between them being the small size of the cerebrum in the latter , and as a consequence more of the optic lobes are seen on the upper surface , but at the same time the cerebellum extends forwards between the optic lobes , and reaches to the cerebrum .
A. Skull and Brain of Hesperornis , three-fifths natural size ( after Marsh ) .
B. Skull and Brain of Golymbus torquatus , natural size ( after Marsh ) .
C. Brain of Scaphognathus Purdoni , natural size .
D. Brain of Lizard , enlarged .
A comparison of the figures will show more clearly than any words the close agreement between the brains of Hesperornis and S. Purdoni , but there are cer am points of difference which must not be overlooked .
In Hesperornis the brain is relatively larger , being about one-fifth of the length of the head , while in S. it is only about one-eighth .
In the latter , also , the cerebellum is smaller , and the optic lobes larger , than in Hesperornis .
Although the optic lobes of Hesperornis are well seen from above , yet they do not seem to reach the upper surface of the brain ; while in S. Purdoni they form no inconsiderable part of the upper surface , and are as high as , if not higher than , the cerebrum itself .
Conclusion .
The endeavour to trace the affinities of fossil animals is constantly leading us into unexpected difficulties and seeming incongruities .
These difficulties , no doubt , arise sometimes from our want of knowledge , but often also from our inability to rightly interpret the known facts , which are only too frequently few in number , and serve rather to indicate the wide fields of knowledge yet to be searched than to furnish materials from which to draw definite conclusions .
The organisation of the Pfcero-sauria presents us with some of these difficulties .
The comparisons which have been made will , I think , make it clear that the Pterosaurian skull , as shown in Scaphognathus , has a very close affinity to the skulls of Lacertilia in important points of structure , while the resemblances to the Avian skull are only superficial .
On the other hand , the brain of S. Purdoni departs from the Beptilian type , and makes an approach towards the brain of Birds , and more especially to the form found in the fossil and its allies .
Accepting these facts , about which there can be no doubt , the Pterosauria show close affinities with both Birds and Beptiles .
From an evolutionist 's point of view , this seems to be just what would be expected ; and one is inclined to say at once , Here is the link connecting the two Sauropsidan groups .
If Birds are modified and more highly developed Beptiles , the Pterodactyl was surely the intermediate stage , or , in other words , the Pterodactyl was the direct ancestor of the Bird .
Is this really the case ?
I think not .
The brain of S. Purdoni might , indeed , be taken as inter- , mediate between that of Birds and of Beptiles , and it certainly makes such a near !
approach to the brain of Hesperornis that one cannot but recognise their close affinity .
With regard to the skull of S. Purdoni , however , it seems to me , it is as truly Beptilian as that of any Lizard living at the present day , and cannot therefore be said to be intermediate between Beptiles and Birds .
It may be argued that all parts of an animal 's organization would not necessarily change at the same time , but one .
modification would give rise to another .
This is no doubt true , and it may be that the new development of the brain seen in the Pterodactyl subsequently cause modifications of the skull ; but it must be remembered that , while the bram o Hesperornis is only a little more advanced than that of S. , the skull wou | seem , from Professor Marsh 's description , to be that of a true Biid , and surely ^ ought to find the skull of the Pterodactyl more modified in the Avian direction if it AUDITORY ORGAN OP A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
were indeed an ancestor in the direct line of any Bird .
The facts , as we at present know them , seem to point to Birds , Pterosauria , and Lizards having been derived from a common ancestor , possessing the general characters of all three , but with none of their specialisations .
If we take two or three of the characters of each of these forms as examples , the relationship may be put thus :\#151 ; Lizard .
Small cerebellum , optic lobes meeting , paroccipital formed by Pterodactyl .
Cerebellum large and separating optic lobes , paroccipital formed by Bird .
Cerebellum large and separating optic lobes , paroccipital formed by Small cerebellum , optic lobes meeting , paroccipitals small and formed by both exoccipitals and opisthotics .
8 x 2 Explanation of Plates 77 and 78 .
( All the figures natural size except No. 12 .
) Fig. 1 ( Plate 77 ) .
Scaphognathus Purdoni , skull seen from above .
Fig. 2 ( Plate 78 ) .
99 99 , , left side .
Fig. 3 ( Plate 78 ) .
99 99 , , right side .
Fig. 2\gt ; a ( Plate 78 ) .
99 99 " side view of base and cranium .
Fig. 4 ( Plate 77 ) .
99 99 " palatal view .
Fig. 5 ( Plate 78 ) .
99 99 , , viewed from behind .
Fig. 6 ( Plate 78 ) .
9 9 " brain cast seen from left side .
Fig. 7 ( Plate 78 ) .
99 99 " from above and behind .
The right side is only partly exposed in the fossil .
Fig. 8 ( Plate 77 ) .
Skull of Sph\lt ; znodon punctata , from above .
Fig. 9 ( Plate 77 ) .
99 99 99 from below .
Fig. 10 ( Plate 78 ) .
99 99 99 back view .
Fig. 11 ( Plate 78 ) .
99 99 99 from right side .
Fig. 12 ( Plate 78 ) .
Skull of young Fowl , back view ( after Parker ) .
Fig. 13 ( Plate 77 ) .
, , Dromceus Novce Hollandice , palatal view .
ant .
orb .
Ant-orbital fossa .
op.l .
Optic lobe .
ant .
sc .
Anterior vertical semicircular op.ot .
Opisthotic .
canal .
orb .
Orbit .
b.o. Basi-occipital .
pa. Parietal .
b.p.p. Basi-pterygoid process .
p.fr .
Pre-frontal .
b.s. Basi-sphenoid .
pi .
Palatine .
bt .
Bas i-t emporal .
pmx .
Premaxilla .
cb .
Cerebrum .
pt .
Pterygoid .
cbl .
Cerebellum .
pt.fos .
Post-temporal fossa .
en .
External nares .
pt.fr .
Post-frontal .
ex.o .
Ex-occipital .
pt.o .
Post-orbital bone .
fr\gt ; Frontal bone .
pt.sc .
Posterior vertical semicircular A Flocculus .
canal .
fo .
Fenestra ovalis .
qu .
Quadrate .
in .
Internal nares .
qu.ju .
Quadrato-jugal .
inf.tem .
Infra-temporal fossa .
so .
Supra-occipital .
ju .
Jugal .
sq .
Squamosal .
la .
Lachrymal .
St. Supra-temporal bone .
med .
Medulla oblongata .
stp .
Stapes .
mx. Maxilla .
sup.tem .
Supra-temporal fossa .
na .
Nasal bone .
VO .
Vomer .
olf .
Olfactory lobe of brain .
Newton* .
Phil. Trans. 1888.B 77 -jjTnoc -77100 cunt .
orb .
iw\#151 ; -swp.tem West , Kewm an \amp ; Co. imp .
W.H.Wesley litk .
Phil. Trans. 1888.B.jP\#163 ; o\#163 ; \lt ; \amp ; 78 .
flewtorv .
Pig .
3 .
West , Newmetn .
\amp ; Co. impW-H .We aley 11th. .
AUDITORY ORGAN OP A NEW SPECIES O PTEROSAURIAN .
Catalogue of the Genera and Species of Ornithosauria .
In bringing together all the generic and specific names that have been given to Ornithosaurians , I have been able to consult with Mr. It .
Lydekker , F.G.S. , so that the synonymy here given may agree with the ' Catalogue of Fossil Reptiles in the British Museum/ which is now passing through the press .
Full synonymy of the species previous to the year 1860 will be found in Professor Hermann yon Meyer 's ' Fauna der Vorwelt .
' Brachytrachelus , Giebel Cimoliornis diomedeus , Owen Co lob or hynchus , Owen . .
Cretornis , Eritsch . . .
See Scaphognathus .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Ornithocheirus .
Criorhynchus , Owen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..See Ornithocheirus .
Cycnorhamphus Sueyicus , Quenstedt . .
1854 .
Pterodactylus 1855 .
Pterodactylus 1860 .
" Wurttembergicus 1861 .
( Lithographic Slate , Nusplingen , Wiirtemberg .
) Quenstedt .
Nenes Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 570 .
( This was not intended as a specific name .
See 'Der Jura , ' p. 812 .
) Quenstedt .
' Ueber Pterodactylus Suevicus , \amp ; c. ' Tubingen , 1855 .
y. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 50 .
Suevicus , subsp .
eurycheirus Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p.532 .
( Wagner also includes P. grandipelvis as a subspecies .
) 1870 .
1871 .
1878 .
1882 .
Cycnorhamphus 55 55 Pterodactylus , , 55 55 .
Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. Ill ( 8vo .
, Cambridge ) . .
Seeley , Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. 4 , vol. 7 , p. 20 .
Fraas , Paleeontographica , vol. 25 , p. 163 . .
Zittel , ibid. , vol. 29 , p. 80 .
Dermodactylus Montanus , Marsh .
1878 .
Pterodactylus Montanus 1881 .
Bermodactylus " ( Jurassic , Wyoming .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 16 , p. 233 .
Marsh , ibid. , vol. 21 , p. 342 .
Bimorphodon Banthensis , Theodori .
Dimorphodon macronyx , Buckland 1829 .
Pterodactylus macronyx 1835 .
1836 .
1858 .
Bimorphodon , , 1859 .
1860 .
Rhamphorhynchus " 1870 .
Bimorphodon , , 1870 .
1874 .
, , 55 1874 . ?
Pterodactylus See Dorygnathus .
( Lias , Lyme Regis .
) Buckland , Geol .
Soc. Proc. , Eeb .
6 , vol. l , p. 96 .
Buckland , Geol .
Soc. Trans. , ser. 2 , vol. 3 , p. 217 .
Buckland , Bridgewater Treatise , pp. 221 , 226 .
Owen , Brit. Assoc. Rep. , 1858 ( ) , p. 97 .
Owen , Phil. Trans. , vol. 149 , p. 161 .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 85 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. for 1869 , Lias Rept .
Seeley , Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. 4 , vol. 6 , p. 129 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Lias Rept .
, p. lo .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, p. 37 .
Biopecephalus , Seeley ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... See Pterodactylus .
( Professor Seeley included in Diopecephalus lovgicollum , and P. Kochi ; Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , vol. 7 , 1871 , p. 35 , foot-note .
) Bolichorhamphus , Seeley .
Doratorhynchus vali , Seeley .
Dorygnathus Banthensis , Theodori .
1830 .
Ornithocephalus Banthensis Pterodactylus macronyx Iiham/ p h orhy nch us Banthensis 1831 .
1852 .
1858 .
1860 .
1860 .
1861 .
1882 .
, , macronyx Bcrygnathus Banthensis ?
Pterodactylus Goldfussi Macrotrachelus , Giebel See Rhamphocephalus Prestwichi .
See Ornithocheirus .
( Lias , Banz , near Boll , Wiirtemberg .
) Tbeodori , Froriep 's Notizen , No. 623 , and Isis , 1831 , col .
276 .
v. Meyer , Nova Acta Leopold .
, vol. 15 , pt .
2 , p. 198 .
Theodori , Bamberg Naturf .
Yer .
Bericht , p. 17 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
A lead .
Sitzber .
, vol.8 , pt .
2 , p.502 .
v. Meyer ( inpart ) , ' Faunad .
Vorw .
, Rept .
Lith .
Schief .
, 'p.85 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, p. 48 .
Wagner , ibid. , vol. 1 , p. 520 .
Zittel , Palseontographica , vol. 29 , p. 64 .
Theodori , 1830 ( fide Bronn , ' Index Palseont .
, ' p. 1082 ) .
See Pterodactylus .
Nyctodactylus gracilis , Marsh . . .
1876 .
Pteranodon gracilis . .
1876 .
Nyctosaurus gracilis 1881 .
Nyctodactylus gracilis . .
Nyctosaurus , Marsh ... ... ... ... ... ... Ornithocephalus , Soemmerring . . .
Ornithocheirus brachyrhinus , Seeley 1870 .
Ornithocheirus brachyrhinus Ornithocheirus Bunzeli , Seeley . .
1881 .
Ornithocheirus Bunzeli 1882 .
" .
( Cretaceous , Kansas .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 11 , p. 508 .
Marsh , ibid. , vol. 12 , p. 479 .
Marsh , ibid. , vol. 21 , p. 342 , note .
See Nyctodactylus .
See Pterodactylus and Rhamphorhynchus .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 123 .
( P Upper Greensand , Gosau , near Vienna .
) Seeley , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 37 , p. 701 .
Sauvage , Soc. Geol .
France Mem. , ser. 3 , vol. 2 , p. 1 .
Ornithocheirus capito , Seeley . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus capito .
Ornithocheirus Carteri , Seeley .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus Garteri .
Ornithocheirus clavirostris , Owen 1874 .
Coloborhynchu clavirostri Ornithocheirus Clifti , Mantell 1827 .
Bones of Birds . . .
1840 .
, , 5 ?
1844 .
Palceornis Glifti . .
1846 .
Pterodactylus ... .
1846 .
Fossil Remains of Birds 1848 .
Pterodactylus Glifti 1854 .
Ornithocheirus colorhinus , Seeley 1870 .
Ornithocheirus colorhinus ( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 126 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosanria , ' p. 128 .
( Wealden , St. Leonards .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, p. 6 .
( Wealden , Hastings .
) Mantell , 'Fossils of Tilgate Forest , ' p. 81 .
Mantell , Geol .
Soc. Trans. , ser. 2 , vol. 5 , p. 175 .
Mantell , ' Medals of Creation , ' p. 806 .
Owen , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 2 , p. 96 .
Mantell , ibid. , p. 104 .
Bronn , ' Index Palseont .
, ' p. 895 .
Morris , ' Cat. Brit. Foss .
, ' p. 353 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , 'Ornithosauria , ' p. 124 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
527 Ornithocheirus compressirostris , Owen 1851 .
Pterodactylus compressirostris 1851 .
1858 .
1878 .
Ornithocheirus crassidens , Seeley 1870 .
Ornithocheirus crassidens Ornithocheirus ?
curtus , Owen .
1870 .
Pterodactylus curtus Ornithocheirus Cuvieri , Bowerbank 1840 .
Remains of Bird .
1842 .
1851 .
Pterodactylus Cuvieri 1851 .
1858 .
1861 .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus , , 1874 .
Goloborhynchus , , 1878 .
Pterodactylus , , Ornithocheirus Daviesi , Owen 1874 .
Pterodactylus Daviesi Ornithocheirus dentatus , Seeley 1870 .
Ornithocheirus dentatus Ornithocheirus denticulatus , Seeley 1870 .
Ornithocheirus denticulatus ( Lower Chalk , Burham ; Greensand , Maidstone ; Wealden , 1 ilgate , and Portland , Solothurn , Switzerland .
) Owen , Zool. Soc. Proc. , 1851 , p. 32 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, pp. 95 , 98 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol.8 , pt .
2 , p. 497 .
Owen , Dixon 's 'Foss .
Sussex , ' edit .
2 , p. 428 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 122 .
( Wealden , Sussex .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Lias Rept .
, pt .
2 , pi .
19 , figs. 8 , 9 .
( Lower Chalk , Burham ; Cambridge Greensand .
) Owen , Geol .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 3 , p. 298 .
Owen , Geol .
Soc. Trans. , ser. 2 , vol. G , pt .
2 , p. 411 .
Bowerbank , Zool. Soc. Proc. , p. 14 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, pp. 88 , 97 .
W agner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 8 , pt .
2 , p. 497 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, suppl .
iii .
, pi .
3 , figs. 1-3 .
Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 113 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 6 .
Owen , Dixon 's 'Foss .
Sussex , ' p. 428 .
( Gault , Folkestone .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 2 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 119 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosaui'ia , ' p. 122 .
Ornithocheirus diomedeus , Owen .
1840 .
Bird allied to Albatross 1846 .
Cimoliornis diomedeus .
1851 .
Pterodactylus , , 1851 .
Large Pterodactyle . .
1854 .
Pterodactylus giganteus ( Chalk , Kent .
) Owen , Geol .
Soc. Trans. , ser. 2 , vol. 6 , p. 411 .
Owen , ' Brit. Foss .
Mam .
and Birds , ' p. 545 .
Owen , Zool. Soc. Proc. , p. 28 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, p. 192 , pi .
32 , figs. 4 , 5 .
Morris , ' Cat. Brit. Foss .
, ' p. 353 .
( All the above refer to the same specimen , which may be identical with giganteus .
) Ornithocheirus enchorhynchus , Seeley .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus enchorhynchus ( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 123 .
* Ornithocheirus eurygnathus , Seeley .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus eurygnathus Ornithocheirus Fittoni , Owen . .
1858 .
Pterodactylus Fittoni .
1859 .
" " . .
1859 .
" " . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus Fittoni .
Ornithocheirus giganteus , Bowerbank 1846 .
Pterodactylus giganteus ( Cambridge Greensand .
) .
Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 123 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) .
Owen , Brit. Assoc. Rep. , 1858 ( Sect. ) , p. 98 . .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
sup. 1 , p. 4 . .
Owen , Phil. Trans. , vol. 149 , p. 161 . .
Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 118 . .
( Upper Chalk , Kent .
) .
Bowerbank , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 2 , p. 7 .
( Paper read May 14 , 1845 ; species named in note dated December , 1845 .
) .
Bowerbank , ibid. , vol. 4 , p. 2 .
1848 .
1850 .
Pterodactylusconirostris 1851 .
" giganteus 1851 .
1858 .
, , conirostris 1878 .
, , giganteus Ornithocheirus harpy i Cope .
Owen , Dixon 's ' Foss .
Sussex , ' 1st edit .
, p. 401 .
Bowerbank , Zool. Soc. Proc. , p. 14 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
p. 91 .
W agner , M iinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 8 , pt .
2 , p.497 .
Owen , Dixon 's ' Foss .
Sussex , ' edit .
2 , p. 427 .
See Pteranodon occidentalis .
Ornithocheirus Hilsensis , Koken 1883 .
Ornithocheirus Hilsensis ( Neocomian , Hils , Hanover .
) Deutsch .
Geol .
Gesell .
Zeitschr .
, vol. 35 , p. 824 , and vol. 37 , 1885 , p. 214 .
( Referred to Dinosaur by Otto Meyer , Deutsch .
Geol .
Gesell .
Zeitschr .
, vol. 36 , 1884 , p. 664 , and by S. W. Williston , Zool. Anzeig .
, vol. 8 , 1885 , p. 628 .
) Ornithocheirus Hlavatschi , Fritsch . .
1881 .
Cretornis Hlavatschi . . . .
1888 .
Ornithocheirus , , . . . .
Ornithocheirus Huxleti , Seeley . . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus .
( Upper Chalk , Bohemia .
) Fritsch , Prag , Bohm .
Gesell .
Sitzber .
, 1880 , p. 276 .
Lydekker , ' Cat. Foss .
Rept .
Brit. Mus. , ' p. 14 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 116 .
Ornithocheirus mach ; erorhynchus , Seeley .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus Ornithocheirus microdon , Seeley ... .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus microdon .
Ornithocheirus nasutus , Seeley ... .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus nasutus ... .
Ornithocheirus nobilis , Owen ... ... ... ... . .
1870 .
Pterodactylus nobilis ... .
Ornithocheirus Oweni , Seeley ... ... ... ... . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus Oweni ... .
Ornithocheirus oxyrhinus , Seeley . . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus oxyrhinus . . .
Ornithocheirus platyrhinus , Seeley . . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus platyrhinus Ornithocheirus platysomus , Seeley . . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus platysomus . .
Ornithocheirus polyodon , Seeley ... .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus polyodon Ornithocheirus Reedii , Seeley ... .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus Reedii ... .
1881 .
" " . . . .
Ornithocheirus sagittirostris , Owen . .
1874 .
Pterodactylus sagittirostris . .
Ornithocheirus scaphorhynchus , Seeley .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus scaphorhynchus .
Ornithocheirus Sedgwickii , Owen . . .
1858 .
Pterodactylus Sedgtvichii . . .
1859 .
" " . . .
1859 .
" " . . .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 113 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 116 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , * Ornithosauria , ' p. 120 .
( Wealden , Isle of Wight .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Lias Rept .
, pt .
2 , pi .
19 , fig. 10 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 115 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 117 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Omithosauria , ' p. 128 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 120 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 121 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , ' Ornithosauria , ' p. 126 .
Seeley , Geol .
Mag. , Dec. 2 , vol. 8 , p. 3 .
( Wealden , St. Leonards .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 3 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , 'Ornithosauria , ' p. 119 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Owen , Brit. Assoc. Rep. , 1858 ( Sect. ) , p. 98 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, suppl .
1 , p. 2 .
Owen , Phil. Trans. , vol. 149 , p. 161 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
1860 .
Pterodactylus 1870 .
Ornithocheirus " . .
1874 .
Colob orhynchus " . .
1882 . ?
Ornithocheirus ... ... ... ... . .
Ornithocheirus simus , Owen ... ... ... ... ... .
1861 .
Pterodactylus simus ... ... ... ... .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus " ... ... ... ... ... .
1874 .
Criorhynchus ... ... ... ... ... . .
Ornithocheirus tenuirostris , Seeley . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus tenuirostris Ornithocheirus umbrosusCope ... ... ... ... ... Ornithocheirus ?
validus , Owen . . . .
1869 .
Pterodactylus macrurus 1870 .
, , validus .
1875 .
Doratorhynchus validus Ornithocheirus Woodwardi , Owen . . .
1861 .
Pterodactylus Woodwardi . . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus Ornithocheirus xyphorhynchus , Seeley . .
1870 .
Ornithocheirus xyphorhynchus .
1881 .
Ornithopterus Lavateri , v. Meyer . . .
1887 .
Pterodactylus ... ... ... ... ... ... 1838 .
, , Lavateri . . . .
1860 .
Ornithopterus . . . .
Owen , 4 Palaeontology , ' p. 427 .
Seeley , 4 Ornithosauria , ' p. 112 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 6 .
Sauvage , Soc. Geol .
France Mem. , ser. 3 , vol. 2 , pt .
4 , p. 6 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, suppl .
3 , p. 2 .
Seeley , 4 Ornithosauria , ' p. 127 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 7 .
( Pterodactylus Woodwardi , Owen , may belong to this species .
) ( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , 4 Ornithosauria , ' p. 114 .
See Pteranodon ingens .
( Purbeck , Swanage .
) Seeley , 'Index to Aves , Ornithosauria , \amp ; c. , ' Cambridge , p.89 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Lias Rept .
, pt .
2 , pi .
19 , fig. 7 .
Seeley , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 31 , p. 465 .
( Cambridge Greensand .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, suppl .
3 , p. 4 .
Seeley , 4 Ornithosauria , ' p. 125 .
( This species may be identical with simus .
) ( Cambridge Greensand .
) Seeley , 4 Ornithosauria , ' p. 117 .
Seeley , Geol .
Mag. , Dec. 2 , vol. 8 , p. 18 .
( Lithographic Slate , Bavaria .
) v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 558 .
v. Meyer , ibid. , p. 415 .
v. Meyer , 4 Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 25 .
Ornithostoma , Seeley ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ( Cambridge Greensand .
) 1871 .
Ornithostoma ... ... ... ... ... ... .Ann .
Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. 4 , vol. 7 , p. 35 , note .
( The portions of jaws thus named may perhaps belong to Ornithocheirus .
) Palceornis , Mantell See Ornithocheirus Clifti .
Pachyrhamphus , Fitzinger ... ... ... ... ... ... ..See Scaphognathus .
Ptenodactylus , Seeley ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..See Ornithocheirus .
( See 'Index to the Fossil Remains of Aves , Ornithosauria , \amp ; c. , in the Woodwardian Museum , ' 8vo .
, Cambridge , 1869 , p. xvi .
) Ptenodracon brevirostris , Soemmerring 1816-17 .
Ornithocephalus brevirostris 1826 .
Pterodactylus nettecephaloides 1842 .
" Meyeri . .
1860 .
, , brevirostris .
1860 .
" Meyeri . .
1861 .
, , brevirostris .
1861 .
, , Meyeri .
1870 .
Ornithocephalus brevirostris 1882 .
Pterodactylus 1888 .
Ptenodracon ( Lithographic Slate , Eichstatt , Bavaria .
) Soemmerring , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Denksch .
, vol. 6 , p. 89 .
Ritgen , Nova Acta Leopold .
, vol. 13 , pt .
1 , p. 3ob .
Munster , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 35 .
v. Meyer , 4 Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 55 .
v. Meyer , ibid. , p. 56 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 533 .
Wagner , ibid. , p. 533 .
Seeley , 4 Ornithosauria , ' p. 111 .
Zittel , Palaeontographica , vol. 29 , p. 78 .
Lydekker , 4 Cat. Foss .
Rept .
Brit. Mus. , ' p. 3 .
MDOCCLXXX V III .
\#151 ; B. Pteranodon comptus , Marsh . .
1876 .
Pteranodon comptus 1876 .
Pteranodon gracilis , Marsh , . .
Pteranodon ingens , Marsh , . .
1872 .
Pterodactylus ingens .
1872 .
Ornithocheirus 1875 .
1876 .
Pteranodon ingens .
Pteranodon longiceps , Marsh . . .
1876 .
Pteranodon longiceps Pteranodon nanus , Marsh ... .
1881 .
Pteranodon nanus .
Pteranodon occidentals , Marsh . .
1871 .
Pterodactylus Oweni 1872 .
, , occidentalis 1872 .
Ornithocheirus harpyia 1875 .
Pterodactylus occidentalis .
1876 .
Pteranodon , , Non Ornithocheirus Oweni Pteranodon velox , Marsh . . . . ?
1872 .
Pterodactylus velox .
1875 .
" " . . .
1876 .
Pteranodon , , ( Cretaceous , Kansas .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sei .
, ser. 3 , vol. 11 , p. 509 .
Marsh , ibid. , vol. 12 , p. 479 .
See Nyctodactylus .
( Cretaceous , Kansas .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 3 , p. 246 .
Cope , Amer .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , vol. 12 , p. 421 .
Cope , U.S. Geol .
Surv .
Terr .
, vol. 2 , pp. 65 and 249 .
Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 11 , p. 507 ; vol. 12 , p. 479 ; also vol. 27 , 1884 , p. 423 ; and Geol .
Mag. , vol. 1 , 1884 , p. 345 .
( Cretaceous , Kansas .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 11 , p. 508 ; vol. 12 , 1876 , p. 479 ; vol. 27 , 1884 , p. 423 ; and Geol .
Mag. , vol. 1 , 1884 , p. 345 ( Cretaceous , Kansas .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 21 , p. 343 .
( Cretaceous , Kansas .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 1 , p. 472 .
Marsh , ibid. , vol. 3 , p. 241 .
Cope , Amer .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , vol. 12 , p. 421 .
Cope , U.S. Geol .
Surv .
Terr .
, vol. 2 , pp. 66 and 249 .
Marsh , Araer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 12 , p. 479 ; also Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 27,1884 , p. 423 ; and Geol .
Mag. , vol. 1 , 1884 , p. 345 .
Seeley .
( Cretaceous , Kansas .
) Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 3 , p. 247 .
Cope , U.S. Geol .
Surv .
Terr .
, vol. 2 , p. 250 .
Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 11 , p. 507 ; and vol. 12 , p. 479 .
Pterodactylus Aclandi , Owen ... .
Pterodactylus antiquus , Soemmerring 1784 .
" Un genre particulier " .
1812 .
Ornithocephalus antiquus .
1824 .
Pterodactylus longirostris .
1826 .
" crocodilocephaloides 1860 .
" longirostris .
1861 .
" , , See Rhamphocephalus depressirostris .
( Lithographic Slate , Pappenheim , Bavaria .
) Collini , Mannheim , Acad. Theod .
Palate .
Acta , vol. 5 , p. 58 .
Soemm erring , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Denksch .
, vol. 3 , p.126 .
Cuvier , Oss .
Foss .
, vol. 5 , pt .
2 , p. 359 .
Ritgen , Nova Acta Leopold .
, vol. 13 , pt .
1 , p. 344 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 26 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 532 .
( Wagner also includes P. scolopaciceps as a subspecies of P. longirostris .
) Pterodactylus Panthensis , Theodori .
Pterodactylus brevirostris , Soemmerring Pterodactylus Buchlandi , v. Meyer . .
Pterodactylus Cirinensis , v. Meyer .
1852 .
Pterodactylus ... .
1860 .
" Cirinensis .
1861 .
See Dorygnathus .
See Ptenodracon .
See Rhamphocephalus .
( Lithographic Slate , Cirin , E. France .
) v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 832 .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 66 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 525 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAUR !
AN .
Pterodactylus Glifti , Owen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .See Ornithocheirus .
Pterodcictyhis compressirostris , Owen . . .
See Ornithocheirus .
Pterodadylus conirostris , Owen ... ... ... ... ... ... See Ornithocheirus giganteus .
Pterodactylus crassipes , Meyer ... .
( Lithographic Slate , Eichstatt , Bavaria .
) 1857 .
P. ( Rhamphorliynclus)crassipes v. Meyer , Neues Jalirb .
Mineral .
, p. 535 .
1860 .
Pterodadylus " v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 64 .
1861 .
Scaphognathus , , Wagner , as var .
of S. , Miinclien , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 524 .
Pterodadylus crassirostris , Goldfuss . . .
See Scaphognathus .
Pterodadylus crocodiloceplia Ritgen Pterodadylus curtus , Owen ... .
See Pterodactylus antiquus .
See Ornithocheirus .
Pterodadylus Cuvieri , Bowerbank ... .
See Ornithocheirus .
Pterodadylus Daviesi , Owen ... ... ... ... ... See Ornithocheirus .
Pterodactylus dubius , Munster . . .
1832 .
Pterodactylus , new species 1843 .
Pterodactylus dubius , Munster 1851 .
Ornitlnoceplialus dubius 1860 .
Pterodactylus " . .
1861 .
" .
Pterodactylus Duncani , Owen ... .
Pterodactylus elegans , Wagner . . .
1860 .
Pterodactylus longirostris . .
elegans .
5 ?
... 1861 .
1861 .
1861 .
1882 .
( Lithographic Slate , Bavaria .
) Munster , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 412 .
v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 584 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 6 , pt.l , p. 148 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 52 .
Wagner , as sub-species of P. rhamphastinus , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 531 .
See Rhamphocephalus Bucklandi .
( Lithographic Slate .
) v.Meyer , 'Faunad .
Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, 'pi .
1 , fig. 1 .
v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 470 .
v. Meyer , Palseontographica , vol. 10 , p. 9 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. l , pp.363,533 .
Zittel , Palseontographica , vol. 29 , pp. 50 , 73 .
Pterodadylus eurycheir Wagner Pterodadylus Fittoni , Owen .
Pterodactylus Gemmin v. Meyer Pterodadylus giganteus , Bowerbank Pterodactylus Goldfussi , Theodori .
See Cycnorhamphus Suevicus .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Rhamphorhynchus .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Dorygnathus Banthensis .
Pterodactylus gracilis , Theodori . .
1852 .
Pterodactylus gracilis .
1860 .
" " . .
Pterodactylus grandipelvis , v. Meyer 1860 .
Pterodadylus grandipelvis 1865 .
1861 .
Pterodactylus grandis , Cuvier Pterodactylus hirundinaceus , Wagner .
Pterodactylus Hoplcinsi , Seeley ( Lithographic Slate .
) Theodori ( fide V. Meyer ) .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Litbog .
Schief , ' p. 7 .
( Lithographic Slate , Eichstatt , Bavaria .
) v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief , ' p. 53 .
v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 845 .
Wagner , as subspecies of P. Suevicus , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
, Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 524 .
See Rhamphorhynchus .
See Rhamphorhynchus Munsteri .
( This name , with others , was given for specimens from the Cambridge Greensand , Brit. Assoc. Rep. , 1864 { Sect. ) , p. 69 , but has not since be n used .
) 3 y 2 Pterodactylus ingensMarsh ... .
Pterodactylusintermedins , Groldfuss Pterodactylus Kiddi , Owen . . . .
Pterodactylus Kochi , Wagner . . .
1831-6 .
Ornithoce Kochi 1850 .
Pterodactylus I860 .
" Kochi . .
1860 .
, , scolopaciceps 1861 .
1861 .
, , Kochi 1871 .
Piopecephalus 1882 .
Pterodactylus , , Non P. Kochi . . .
Pterodactylus Lavateri , v. Meyer Pterodactylus Liasicus , Quenstedt 1858 .
Pterodactylus ... .
1858 .
, , Liasicus 1860 .
Pterodactylus longicaudu Munster Pterodactylus longicollum , v. Meyer Pterodactylus longicollum 1854 .
1858 .
1860 .
1861 .
1871 .
, , , , longicollum , , longicollis Piopecephalus longicollum Pterodactylus longipes , Munster 1836 .
Pterodactylus lonqipes 1860 .
1861 .
" " Pterodactylus longirostris , Cuvier Pterodactylus macronyx , Buckland Pterodactylus Manseli , Owen .
1874 .
Pterodactylus Manseli Pterodactylus Marderi , Owen .
1874 .
Pterodactylus Marderi Pterodactylus medius , Munster 1831 .
Pterodactylus medius 1831 .
, , intermedins 1860 .
" medius 1861 .
Pterodactylus Meyeri , Munster .
Pterodactylus micronyx , Meyer .
Pterodactylus Montanus , Marsh .
Pterodactylus Munsteri , Groldfuss See Ptekanodon .
See Pterodactylus medius .
See Rhamphocephalus Bucklandi .
( Lithographic Slate , Kelheim and Eichstatt , Bavaria .
) Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 2 , p. 168 .
y. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 199 .
y. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 35 .
v. Meyer , ibid. , p. 33 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , pp. 522 and 532 .
Wagner , ibid. , vol. 1 , p. 533 .
Seeley , Anu .
Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. 4 , vol. 7 , p. 35 , note .
Zittel , Palaeontographica , vol. 29 , p. 64 .
Winkler , Mus. Teyler Archives , vol. 3 , 1874 , p. 377 .
See Ornithopterus .
( Upper Lias , Lower Lias , and U pper Keuper , Wiirtemberg .
) Quenstedt , ' Der Jura , ' p. vi .
Quenstedt , Jahresheft .
Naturk .
Wiirttemb .
, vol. 14 , p. 299 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 66 .
See Rhamphorhynchus .
( Lithographic Slate , Eichstatt , Bavaria .
) v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 52 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol.8 , pt.2 , p.456 .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 45 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, p. 532 .
Seeley , Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. 4 , vol. 7 , p. 35 , note .
( Lithographic Slate , Solenhofen , Bavaria .
) Minister , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 580 .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 48 .
Wagner , as subspecies of P. longicollis , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p , 532 .
See Pterodactylus antiquus .
See Dimorphodon .
( Kimeridge Clay , Dorsetshire .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 8 , pi .
1 .
( Lias , Lyme Regis .
) Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 12 .
( Lithographic Slate , Daiting , Monheim , Bavaria .
) Minister , Nova Acta Leopold .
, vol. 15 , pt .
1 , p. 49 .
Goldfuss ( in error ) , ibid. , p. 68 .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Yorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 39 .
Wagner , as subspecies of P. Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, p. 532 .
See Ptenodracon breyirostris .
See Pterodactylus Redenbacheri .
See Dermodactylus .
See Rhamphorhynchus .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
Pterodactylus nettecephaloides , Ritgen . . .
Pterodactylus nobilis , Owen ... ... ... ... ... .
Pterodactylus occidentals , Marsh ... .
Pterodactylus ornis , Giebel ... ... ... ... ... .
1840 .
Bones of Birds ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1846 .
Pterodactylus ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1846 .
" ... ... ... ... ... ... 1847 .
, , ornis ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1872 .
" " ... ... ... ... Pterodactylus Oweni , Marsh ... ... ... ... ... . .
Pterodactylus Pleydelli , Owen . . . .
1874 .
Pterodactylus Pleydelli , Owen .
Pterodactylus propinquus , Wagner . . .
1857 .
P. { Ornithocephalus ) propinquus 1858 .
1860 .
1861 .
Pterodactylus propinquus 99 99 99 99 Pterodactylus pulcliellus , v. Meyer ... .
Pterodactylus Redenbacheri , Wagner . .
1851 .
Ornithocephalus Redenbacheri 1856 .
Pterodactylus mi . . .
1858 .
99 99 1860 .
99 99 1861 .
99 9 ) 1861 .
, , Redenbacheri .
1861 .
" micronyx . . .
1863 .
99 99 1870 .
99 99 1871 .
9 9 9 9 1874 .
99 9 9 Pterodactylus rhamphastinus , Wagner .
185 ) .
Ornithocephalus rhamphastinus 1860 .
Pterodactylus rhamphastinus .
1861 .
\gt ; \gt ; jj 1874 .
Diopecephalus " Pterodactylus sagiitirostris , Owen Pterodactylus scolopaciceps , v. Meyer .
Pterodactylus secundarius , v. Meyer 1843 .
Pterodactylus secundarius .
1851 .
Ornithocephalus , , 1860 .
Pterodactylus " 1861 .
Pierodactylus Sedgw Owen .
See Ptenodracon brevirostris .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Pteranodon .
( Wealden , Tilgate .
) Mantell , Geol .
Soc. Trans. , ser. 2 , vol. 5 , p. 175 .
y. Meyer , Palaeontographica , vol. 1 , p. 2 .
Owen , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 2 .
p. 96 .
Giebel , ' Fauna d. Vorwelt , ' vol. 1 , p. 99 .
Sauvage , Soc. Geol .
France Bull .
, ser. 3 , vol. 1 , p , 365 .
See Pteranodon occidentals .
( Kimeridge Clay , Dorsetshire .
) Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 9 .
( Lithographic Slate , Bavaria .
) Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Anzeig .
, 17th August , 1857 , p. 171 .
W agner , Miinchen , B ay er .
Akad .
A bhandl .
, vol .8 , pt.2 , p.451 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, 'p .
40 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 532 .
( Wagner includes P. medius as a subspecies .
) See Pterodactylus elegans .
( Lithographic Slate , Solenhofen , Bavaria .
) Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Anzeig .
, No. 35 , p. 270 .
v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 826 .
Wagner , as subspecies of P. Kochi , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 8 , pt .
2 , p. 518 .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 59 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 524 .
Wagner , ibid. , vol. 1 , p. 532 .
v. Meyer , Palaeontographica , vol. 10 , p. 47 .
v. Meyer , - Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 247 .
Winkler , 'Descript .
Nouvel Exemplaire , ' Harlem .
Winkler , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 112 .
Winkler , Mus. Teyler Archives , vol. 3 , p. 84 .
( Lithographic Slate , Bavaria .
) Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 6 , pt .
1 , p. 132 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 54 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, p. 531 .
Seeley , Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. 4 , vol. 7 , p. 35 , note .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Pterodactylus Kochi .
( Lithographic Slate , Bavaria .
) v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 583 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 6 , pt .
1 , p. 178 , and pt .
3 , p. 690 .
Frischmann , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 31 .
Wagner , as subspecies of P. longicollis , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, p. 532 .
See Ornithocheirus .
Pterodactylus simus , Owen . . .
Pterodactylus spectabilis , v. Meyer 1861 .
Pterodactylus spectabilis 1861 .
1863 .
1882 .
Pterodactylus Suevicus , Quenstedt .
Pterodactylus Suprajurensis , Sauvage 1873 .
Pterodactylus Suprajurensis Pterodactylus umbrosus , Cope Pterodactylus validus , Owen .
Pterodactylus velox , Marsh Pterodactylus vulturinus , Wagner 1857 .
P. { Ornithoceph vulturinus 1860 .
Pterodactylus " 1861 .
See Ornithocheirus .
( Lithographic Slate , Bavaria .
) v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 467 .
v. Meyer , Palaeontographica , vol. 10 , p. 1 .
v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 247 .
Zittel , Palaeontographica , vol. 29 , p. 77 .
See Cycnorhamphus .
( Kimeridgian , Boulogne .
) Sauvage , Soc. Geol .
Prance Bull .
, ser. 3 , vol. 1 , p. 365 .
See Pteranodon ingens .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Pteranodon .
( Lithographic Slate , Daiting , Monheim , Bavaria .
) Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Anzeig .
, No. 21 , p. 174 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 62 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 531 .
Pterodactylus Woodwardi , Owen . . . .
Pterodactylus Wurttembergicus Quenstedt .
Pycnorhamphus , Zittel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Rhamphocephalus Bucklandi , v. Meyer 1832 .
Pterodactylus Bucklandi 1859 .
1860 .
1874 .
1874 .
1888 . ?
, , Duncani . ?
" Kiddi .
Rhamphocephalus Bucklandi Rhamphocephalus depressirostris , Huxley 1859 .
Rhamphorhynchus depressirostris 1874 .
F Pterodactylus Aclandi .
1888 .
Rhamphocephalus depressirostris Rhamphocephalus Prestwichi , Seeley . .
1880 .
Rhamphocephalus Prestwichi 1885 .
Bolichorliamphus ( in error ) . .
Rhamphorhynchus Banthen , Theodori .
See Ornithocheirus .
See Cycnorhamphus Suevicus .
In error for Pachyrhamphus .
( See Palaeontographica , vol. 29 , 1882 , p. 80 .
) ( Stonesfield Slate .
) v. Meyer , ' Palseologica/ pp. 117 and 252 .
Huxley , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 15 , p. 658 .
v. Meyer , ' Fauna d. Vorwelt , Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 10 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 11 , pi .
1 , fig. 18 .
Owen , ibid. , pi .
1 , fig. 17 .
Lydekker , ' Cat. Poss .
Rept .
Brit. Mus. , ' p. 34 .
( Stonesfield Slate .
) Huxley , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 15 , p. 663 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. Mesoz .
Rept .
, pt .
1 , p. 11 .
Lydekker , ' Cat. Poss .
Rept .
Brit. Mus. , ' p. 11 .
( Stonesfield Slate , Kineton , Warwick .
) Seeley , Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 36 , p. 27 .
Seeley , Phillips ' Geology , edit .
2 , p. 518 .
See Dorygnathus .
Rhamphorhynchus Bucklandi , v. Meyer .
Rhamphorhynchus crassirostris , Goldfuss .
Rhamphorhynchus curtimanus , Wagner Rhamphorhynchus depressirostris , Huxley Rhamphorhynchus ensirostris , Theodori .
Rhamphorhynchus Gemmingi , v. Meyer . .
1846 .
P. ( Rhamphorhyn ) Gemmingi 1851 .
Ornithocephalus * " 1855 .
Rhamphorhynchus " 1858 .
" longimanus .
See Rhamphocephalus .
See Scaphognathus .
See Rhamphorhynchus Munsteri .
See Rhamphocephalus .
See Dorygnathus Banthensis .
( Lithographic Slate , Solenhofen , Bavaria .
) v. Meyer , Palaeontographica , vol. 1 , p. 1 , and Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 463 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer , Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol.6 , pt .
I , p.l90 .
v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, pp. 333 and 809 .
Wagner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 8 , pt .
2 , p.491 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSAURIAN .
1860 .
R h amp horllynch us Gemmingi 1870 .
, , Meyeri 1882 .
" Gemmingi Rhamphorhynchus Goldfussi , Theodori Rhamphorhynchus grandis , Cuvier . .
1824 .
Pterodactylusgrandis .
1851 .
Ornithocephalus ... 1860 .
Pterodactylus , , ... 1861 .
" " . . .
Rhamphorhynchus longicauda , Munster 1839 .
Pterodactylus longicaudus 1851 .
Ornithocephalus 1860 .
Rhamphorhynchus 1861 .
1861 .
1882 .
1884 .
" , , Rhamyhorhynchus longimanus , Wagner .
Rhamphorhynchus macronyBuckland Rhamphorhynchus Meyeri , Owen Rhamphorhynchus Munsteri , Goldfuss .
1831 .
Ornithocephalus Munsteri Pterodactylus P. ( RhamphorhynMunsteri Ornithocephalus Munsteri 1832 .
1846 .
1851 .
1857 .
1858 .
Pterodactylus Munsteri 1858 .
1858 .
1858 .
1860 .
1860 .
1882 .
1882 .
Rhamphorhynchus phyMarsh Scaphognathus crassirostris , Goldfuss v. Meyer ( in part ) , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 67 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Lias Rept .
, pt .
2 , p. 80 , pi .
19 , fig. 5 .
Zittel , Palseontographica , vol. 29 , p. 51 .
See Dorygnathus Banthensis .
( Lithographic Slate , Solenhofen , Bavaria .
) Cuvier , ' Oss .
Foss .
, ' edit .
3 , vol. 5 , pt .
2 , p. 380 .
W agner , Miinchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 6 , pt .
I , p.l90 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 61 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 531 .
( Lithographic State , Eiclistatt , Bavaria ) .
Munster , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 677 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 6 , pt .
1 , p. 168 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 81 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 9 , p. 113 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 535 .
Zittel , Palaeontographica , vol. 29 , p. 54 .
Ammon , Regensburg , Not .
Ver. Corr. Blatt , vol. 38 , p. 130 .
See Rhamphorhynchus Gemmingi .
See Dimorphodon .
See Rhamphorhynchus Gemmingi .
( Lithographic Slate .
) Goldfuss , Nova Acta Leopold .
, vol. 15 , pt .
1 , p. 112 .
v. Meyer , ' Palaeologica , ' pp. 116 and 248 .
v. Meyer , Palasontographica , vol. 1 , p. 20 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol 6 , pt .
1 , p. 172 .
Rhamphorhynchus curtimanus , , , , Gemmingi phyllurus Munsteri P. ( Rhamphorhynchus ) hirundinaceus Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Anzeig .
, No. 22 , p. 180 .
v. Meyer , Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, p. 62 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 8 , pt .
2 , p. 521 .
Wagner , ibid. , pp. 481 , 483 , 491 .
Wagner , ibid. , pp. 485 , 522 .
v.Meyer ( in part)/ Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lith .
Schief .
, 'p .
67 .
v. Meyer , Palseontographica , vol. 7 , p. 79 .
Marsh , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ser. 3 , vol. 23 , p. 256 .
Zittel , Palseontographica , vol. 29 , p. 49 .
See Rhamphorhynchus Munsteri .
( Lithographic Slate , Bavaria ) .
Goldfuss , Nova Acta Leopold .
, vol. 15 , pt .
1 , p. 63 .
Buckland , Bridgewater Treatise , p. 221 .
Fitzinger , ' Systema Reptilium , ' p. 35 .
Owen , Pal .
Soc. , Cret .
Rept .
, pi .
27 , figs. 2 , 3 , 4 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 6 , pt .
l , p. 189 .
Giebel , ' Allgemeine Palaeont .
, ' p. 231 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Abhandl .
, vol. 8 , pt .
2 , p. 505 .
v. Meyer , 'Fauna d. Vorwelt , Rept .
Lithog .
Schief .
, ' p. 40 .
Wagner , Munchen , Bayer .
Akad .
Sitzber .
, vol. 1 , p. 534 .
( Wagner includes P. as a subspecies of S. crassirostris .
) Zittel , Paloeontographica , vol. 29 , p. 17 .
( Upper Lias , Yorkshire ) .
1831 .
Pterodactylus crassirostris 1836 .
55 5 5 * 1843 .
Pachyrhamphus 55 1851 .
Pterodactylus 55 1851 .
Ornithocephalus 55 1852 .
Prachytrachelus 55 1858 .
Phamphorhynchus 55 1860 .
Pterodactylus 55 1861 .
Scaphognathus 55 1882 .
Pachyrhamphus 55 1888 .
Scaphognathus Purdoni , Newton APPENDIX II .
Bibliography .
References to writings on Ornithosanria , supplementary to those given by Professor H. G. Seeley in 1870 , ' Ornithosauria/ p. 129 .
Ammon , Dr. L. v. Regensburg , Not .
Yer .
Corr. Blatt , vol. 38 , 1884 , p. 130 .
Auden , A. W. Pterodactyles .
Liverpool Geol .
Assoc. Trans. , vol. 4 , 1884 , p. 71 .
Cope , Prof. E. D. Two new Ornithosaurians from Kansas .
Amer .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , vol. 12 , 1872 , p. 421 .
---- U.S. Geol .
Surv .
Territories Report , vol. 2 , 1875 , pp. 65 , 249 .
Fikenscher , C. Flughaut von Pterodactylus .
Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, 1872 , p. 861 .
Fraas , Dr. Oscar .
Ueber Pterodactylus Suevicus .
Paleeontographica , vol. 25 , 1878 , p. 163 .
Friscecmann , L. Ueber nene Entdeckungen im lithographischen Schiefer von Eichstadt .
Neues Jabrb .
Mineral .
, 1868 , p. 31 .
Fritsch , Dr , Anton .
Ueber die Entdeckung von Yogelresten in der bohm .
Kreideformation .
Prag , Bohm .
Gesell .
Sitzber .
( for year 1880 ) , 1881 , p. 276 .
Geinitz , I)r .
Pterodactylen .
Dresden , Isis Sitzber .
, 1877 , p. 29 .
Houzeau de Lehaye , A. ( On Pterodactylian Teeth in the Hainault Chalk , \amp ; c.\#151 ; notes occurrence only ) .
Liege , Soc. Geol Belg. Ann. , vol. 2 , 1875 .
( Bull , p. xliv .
) Koken , Ernst .
Ueber Ornithocheirus Hilsensis , Koken .
Deutsch .
Geol .
Gesell .
Zeitschr .
, vol. 35 , 1883 , p. 824 , and vol. 37 , 1885 , p. 214 .
Lydekker , R. Catalogue of the Fossil Reptilia in the British Museum , 1888 , 8vo .
Marsh , Prof O. C. Note on a new and gigantic species of Pterodactyle .
Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 1 , 1871 , p. 472 .
---- Discovery of additional remains of Pterosauria , with description of two new species , Pterodactylus occidentalis and P. velox .
Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 3 , 1872 , p. 241 .
---- Notice of a new suborder of Pterosauria .
Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 11 , 1876 , p. 507 .
---- Principal characters of American Pterodactyles ( abstract of paper read before the American Assoc , for Advancement of Science at Buffalo , August 28 , 1876 ) , Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 12 , 1876 , p. 479 .
---- New Pterodactyle from the Jurassic of the Rocky Mountains .
Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 16 , 1878 , p. 233 .
---- Note on American Pterodactyles .
Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 21 , 1881 , p. 342 .
---- The Wings of Pterodactyles .
Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 23 , 1882 , p. 251 .
---- Principal Characters of American Cretaceous Pterodactyles .
Amer .
Journ. Sci. , vol. 27 , 1884 , p. 423 .
Meyer , Prof. H. von .
Rhamphorhynchus Gemmingi aus dem lithographischen Schiefer in Bayern .
Paleeontographica , vol. 7 , 1860 , p. 79 .
---- Pterodactylus spectabilis aus dem lithographischen Schiefer von Eichstatt .
Paloeontographica , vol. 10 , 1861 , p. 1 .
---- Pterodactylus micronyx aus dem lithographischen Schiefer von Solenhofen .
Palaaontographica , vol. 10 , 1862 , p. 47 .
----Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, 1861 , p. 467 ; 1863 , p. 247 ; 1865 , p. 845 .
AUDITORY ORGAN OF A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROSADRIAN .
537 Meyer , Otto .
Ueber Ornithodleirus Hilsensis , Koken .
Deutsch .
Geol .
Gesell .
Zeitschr .
, vol. 36 , 1884 , p. 664 .
Owen , Sir Richard .
Palaeontograpliical Society , volumes published in the years 1870 , 1874 .
Saovage , Prof. H. E. De la presence du genre Pterodactyle dans le jurassique superieur de Boulogne-sur-Mer .
Soc. Geol .
France Bull .
, vol. 1 , 1873 , p. 365 .
---- Recherches sir les Reptiles trouves dans le Gault de l'Est du bassin de Paris .
Soc. Geol .
France Mem. , vol. 2 , 1882 , pt .
4 .
Seeley , Prof. H. G. Remarks on Professor Owen 's Monograph on Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , vol. 6 , 1870 , p. 129 .
---- Additional evidence of the structure of the Head in Ornithosaurs from the Cambridge Upper Greensand .
Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , vol. 7 , 1871 , p. 20 .
------ On an Ornithosaurian ( Doratorhyndms validus ) from the Purbeck Limestone of Langton , near Swanage .
Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 31 , 1875 , p. 465 .
----On the Organization of the Ornithosauria .
[ 1875 .
] Linn. Soc. Journ. ( Zool. ) , vol. 13 , 1878 , p. 84 .
---- On Phamphorhyndms Prestwichi .
Geoi .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 36 , 1880 , p. 27 .
---- On evidence of two Ornithosaurians referable to the genus from the Upper Greensand of Cambridge preserved in the collection of W. Reed , Esq. Geol .
Mag. , vol. 8 , 1881 , p. 13 .
.----- Reptile Fauna of the Gosau formation , \amp ; c. Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 37 , 1881 , p. 620 .
---- Phillips ' 'Manual of Geology , ' 2nd edit .
, 1885 , p. 517 .
Williston , Dr. S. W. Uber Ornithodieirus Hilsensis , Koken .
Zool. Anzeiger , vol. 8 , 1885 , p. 628 .
Winkler , Prof. T. C. Description d'un nouvel exemplaire de Pterodactylus micronyx du Musee Teyler , Harlem , 1870 ; see also Neues Jahrb .
Mineral .
, 1871 , p. 112 ; and Harlem , Mus. Teyler Archives , vol. 3 , 1874 , p. 84 .
---- Le Pterodactijlus Kodii du Musee Teyler , Harlem , 8vo .
, 1874 ; also Harlem , Mus. Teyler Archives , vol. 3 , 1874 , p. 377 .
---- Note sir un espece de Phampliorhynchus du Musee Teyler .
Harlem , Mus. Teyler Archives , vol. 1 , 1883 , p. 219 .
Zittel , Prof. K. A. Ueber Flugsaurier aus dem Lithographisclien Schiefer Bayerns .
Paheonto-graphica , vol. 29 , 1882 , p. 49 .
3 z

