150 Mr. H. Robinson .
A Redetermination of [ June 19 , depend on any peculiarity in the animal , but simply on the reaction of its urine at the time . .
The original view of the author , which led to his making the numerous observations above mentioned , which also he enunciated in his communication of February , 1883 , appears to be fully verified by them ; and the conclusion may fairly be drawn that , under ordinary circumstances , the absence of uric acid from the urine of the adult horse is not due to the non-formation of this acid , but to the destruction which it undergoes when formed , so that , if at any time the destructive influence is removed by the fluid assuming an acid reaction , uric acid appears in the urine .
Lastly , we may derive from the above observations an explanation of the fact that uric acid is present in the urine of the suckling herbivorous mammal , for in such animals the urine is found to be acid in reaction .
XIII .
" A Redetermination of the Atomic Weight of Cerium .
" By Henry Robinson , B.A. , Assistant to the Professor of Chemistry in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Liveing , F.R.S. Received June 11 , 1884 .
Having worked a good deal during the last few years on the preparation of pure compounds of the cerium and yttrium metals , I was led to seek some method by which I might obtain their anhydrous chlorides in such a state of purity that it would be possible to make from them redeterminations of the atomic weights of the metals .
In April last year , I succeeded in preparing anhydrous cerium chloride ( and in this paper I shall confine myself to that metal ) by passing dry hydrochloric acid gas over what I may call air-dry cerium oxalate , heating it at first gently , so as not to char the oxalate , and then , as the operation proceeded , increasing the temperature to a full red heat .
The chloride so obtained was perfectly white , and , when thrown into water , dissolved , with a hissing noise and a considerable evolution of heat , to a clear and colourless solution .
I obtained the chloride so easily on the first attempt , I supposed I could repeat the experiment at will , but such did not prove to be the case , and , being much occupied with other duties , not much more was done towards the attainment of my object until the commencement of the present year .
I had previously prepared a considerable quantity of pure cerium oxalate , in the following manner , from a crude yellow sulphate obtained from Schuchardt .
It contained much didymium and 1804 .
] the Atomic Weight of Cerium .
151 a smaller quantity of lanthanum , besides other metals .
About 250 grins , of the crude material were taken at once , and the lumps were broken down in a mortar , then it was transferred to a flask of about 3 litres capacity and 100 cub. centims. of strong nitric acid were added to it , afterwards gradually water until the bulk was about 3 litres .
After shaking frequently for a day , it was allowed to settle all night , and next morning the clear liquid was siphoned into another flask .
Any undissolved was left in the flask to go on with the next lot , to be treated in the same way .
The clear liquid which had been siphoned off was saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen , then filtered from the reddish-brown precipitate thrown down .
To the filtrate oxalic acid was added , until there was no further precipitate formed ; the precipitated oxalate was allowed to settle down , and the clear liquor was siphoned off and thrown away .
The oxalate was then well washed with water made slightly acid with nitric acid on a filter , using a Bunsen pump , dried over a water-bath , and then ignited .
The oxides thus obtained were dissolved in nitric acid , the solution was transferred to a dish and evaporated down on a water-bath to a thick syrup , until it would scarcely pour from the basin .
It was then transferred to two large beakers , each containing 1500 cub. centims. of boiling dilute sulphuric acid\#151 ; 20 cub. centims. of sulphuric acid , sp. gr. 184 in 1000 cub. centims. of water\#151 ; well stirred and allowed to settle .
There was a considerable precipitate of basic cerium sulphate ; after it had settled down well , the clear liquid was siphoned off , precipitated with oxalic acid , and the above process was exactly repeated to obtain more of the basic cerium sulphate .
After siphoning off as much as possible of the clear liquid from the second pi'eci-pitate , both precipitates were thoroughly drained together on a filter at a Bunsen pump , and washed with dilute sulphuric acid .
The washings and the clear liquid from the second precipitate were precipitated with oxalic acid , and the oxalates obtained , principally of didymium and lanthanum , were reserved for further treatment .
Bunsen 's process was now to dissolve the basic sulphate , and reprecipitate as such , repeating the process until he obtained a small quantity of the pure sulphate ; but I found it better from this stage to adopt Gibbs 's method of treatment with lead peroxide .
Accordingly I dissolved the washed and drained basic sulphate in strong nitric acid , added to the solution some lead peroxide , and boiled the whole until a small quantity of the solution diluted with water gave no precipitate with barium nitrate .
If properly done , the cerium was now peroxidised and in solution as nitrate .
I now allowed the excess of lead peroxide and the lead sulphate formed during the process to settle down , then decanted the clear liquid into an evaporating basin , and heated it on a water-bath until it became a thick syrup .
This syrup was treated with boiling dilute nitric acid\#151 ; 25 cub. 152 Mr. H. Robinson .
A Redetermination of [ June 19 centiras .
of strong acid in 1000 cnb .
centims. of water\#151 ; by which , the cerium nitrate was decomposed into a basic nitrate which generally settled down readily , leaving only a small quantity of cerium in solution .
The clear liquid was siphoned off and saved for further treatment .
The basic nitrate was thrown on a filter , drained at the pump , and slightly washed with dilute nitric acid .
It was removed from the filter-paper , transferred to an evaporating basin , and thoroughly heated on a water-bath until quite dry and hard , then broken up with a pestle in the dish , again set on the water-bath and heated , and , while there , drenched with boiling dilute nitric acid of the same strength as that used before .
It was kept hot on the water-bath for some time and constantly stirred , then , after standing a short time , the greater part of the nearly clear supernatant liquor was poured away and the precipitate transferred to a filter , where it was drained by means of the pump and thoroughly washed with dilute nitric acid until some of the basic nitrate taken from the filter and dissolved in hydrochloric acid , so as to make a very concentrated solution , showed no trace of the didymium absorption-bands .
When this point was reached the basic cerium nitrate containing a little lead was removed from the filter and put in a flask , hydrochloric acid was added , and the whole heated on a water-bath until the nitrate was converted into chloride and dissolved .
The greater part of the excess of hydrochloric acid was evaporated away , as the oxalate of cerium , to be obtained subsequently , was found to be rather soluble when much of that acid was present .
The cerium chloride was dissolved in water and the solution saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen , then filtered from the lead sulphide ; the filtrate was boiled to get rid of the sulphuretted hydrogen , and again filtered to remove the small quantity of sulphur which separated out .
The warm solution was then saturated with chlorine , and left to stand all night , so that if any iron was present it might be peroxidised .
The cerium was then precipitated from the acid solution by well purified oxalic acid ; the oxalate was allowed to settle down thoroughly , and the clear liquor was poured away .
After several washings by decantation , using a dilute solution of hydrochloric acid containing about 2 per cent , of hydrochloric acid , the oxalate was transferred to a funnel which held a perforated platinum plate in its neck , and well washed with boiling water , then dried on the water-bath .
All the cerium oxalate I have used in my experiments was prepared in the way just described .
When I had obtained a sufficient quantity , the whole was well mixed in a mortar and then placed in a rather loosely stoppered bottle .
From time to time a quantity sufficient for each experiment was taken from this bottle .
When I had prepared all the pure oxalate I required , I hit accidentally on a simpler mode of separating cerium from lanthanum and didymium .
Instead of precipitating the cerium 1884 .
] the Atomic Weight of Cerium .
as basic sulphate , I evaporated the solution of the mixed nitrates of cerium , lanthanum , and didymium , obtained in the first instance , to complete dryness ; then heated the brown mass over a naked flame until the brown colour entirely disappeared , and the residue became a pale yellow .
On treating this yellow residue with boiling dilute nitric acid , the whole of the lanthanum and didymium was dissolved , and nearly all the cerium was left as basic nitrate .
When preparing the chloride I weighed out for each experiment about 10'5 grms. of the air-dry oxalate , and put it in a rather wide glass tube about 18 inches long .
The tube was then placed in a paraffin-bath and dry hydrochloric acid passed through it .
The hydrochloric acid gas was prepared in the following way:\#151 ; 20 parts of oil of vitriol were mixed with 8 parts of water , and the mixture was allowed to cool , it was then poured on to 12 parts of common salt .
The gas is not produced when the acid is thus diluted until a gentle heat is applied , but when it is it comes so easily that it may be regulated to come at any desired rate .
The gas was first passed through a WoulfPs bottle containing oil of vitriol , and with three tubulures , the third one being connected with an apparatus for producing carbon dioxide , so that when necessary that gas could be admitted without disconnecting any part of the apparatus , next through two large |J -tubes containing calcium chloride , then again through a bottle containing oil of vitriol , and lastly through a ( J-tube filled with asbestos to catch any spray of sulphuric acid which might be produced .
The gas now entered the tube containing the oxalate , and the excess , after passing through a sulphuric acid wash-bottle , was absorbed in water .
Soon after the hydrochloric acid began to pass over the oxalate , water made its appearance at the exit end of the tube .
When the air was expelled heat was applied to the bath , much water continued to come off , and was driven away by heating the end of the tube .
When the temperature of the bath rose a little above 120'\#151 ; generally at 123'\#151 ; the oxalic acid began to sublime to the end of the tube and condensed there in crystals , this in its turn was driven away by heating the tube .
As long as oxalic acid was seen to come off the bath was kept between 120 ' and 130 ' , and all that did show itself as oxalic acid did so between these limits .
Afterwards the temperature of the bath was allowed to rise gradually to 200 ' ; there was no advantage in going higher , as the paraffin evaporated away and a gas furnace can easily be regulated to this temperature .
I now transferred the substance , not yet completely converted into chloride , to another tube and continued the process in an ordinary gas combustion furnace .
The object now was to so regulate the temperature that water was kept coming off without increasing the heat so rapidly as to char the oxalate left 154 Mr. H. Robinson .
A Redetermination of [ June 19 , undecomposed .
When a low red heat was reached a slow current of carbon dioxide was passed in along with the hydrochloric acid to burn the little carbon left from a small quantity of the oxalic acid nearly always charring .
When the slightly grey appearance of the chloride due to this small quantity of carbon disappeared the current of carbon dioxide was stopped , that of the hydrochloric acid was continued for an hour longer , while the chloride was kept at a full red heat .
With the hydrochloric acid still flowing over the chloride the furnace was gradually cooled until it was safe to handle the glass tube ; the exit end of the tube was then plugged , then the other end , and the tube was removed from the furnace and wiped clean from the magnesia it had been lying in .
The cork of the tube was then withdrawn and the chloride slipped into the weighing flask which was securely closed by a glass cap well ground on to its neck .
It was then quickly weighed while still quite warm .
The object in weighing the chloride at this stage in the process was to make quite sure no water was absorbed before the final weighing was made , and such was found to be the case , for although there was always a small increase in weight , about 0*0025 grm. on 6*5 grms. of the chloride , it was no more than was easily accounted for by the loss that would arise from weighing the body warm .
When weighing the chloride it was placed in a small flask with a closely fitting cap and an exactly similar flask was used as a tare ; the latter required the addition of 0*0005 grm. to balance the weighing flask ; whatever was done to the one flask was always done to the other , and they were always kept beside one another .
To avoid repetition , I may say here that in all the other weighings the body to be weighed was placed in one vessel and another vessel as similar in material and weight as possible was used as a tare .
The weight having been taken , in order to remove extraneous hydrochloric acid , the flask containing the chloride , and the tare , were placed over sulphuric acid and surrounded by quicklime under the receiver of a large air-pump which could be exhausted very rapidly to within 3 millims. of a vacuum .
This was usually done during an afternoon , they were left here the whole of the two following days , and on the morning of the fourth day air , dried by passing through sulphuric acid and phosphoric anhydride , was let into the receiver .
This treatment was found to completely free the chloride from adhering hydrochloric acid , as when it was dissolved its .
solution was perfectly neutral .
The two flasks were now removed from the receiver , secui'ely closed , and the final weighing of the chloride made ; it was then cautiously dissolved in water .
In making the following determinations pure silver was used prepared , according to Stas 's directions , by precipitation from an ammoniacal solution of the nitrate by ammonium sulphite .
For each experiment , after making the first weighing , I calculated how 1884.1 the Atomic Weight of Cerium .
much silver was required to precipitate the chlorine of the cerium chloride , assuming at the outset the atomic weight of cerium was 141'0 .
I then weighed in a porcelain crucible that quantity , less about 10 mgrms .
, and ignited it in a current of dry and purified hydrogen , keeping it some time at a red heat , allowed it nearly to cool in hydrogen , and then heated it again nearly to redness in air .
After cooling over sulphuric acid the silver was weighed and transferred to a 20-oz .
bottle , and the empty crucible was again weighed .
A sufficient quantity of nitric acid , sp. gr. 1*42 , was added to the silver , and the stopper of the bottle , which had been previously well ground in with emery , was tied down fast .
The bottle was then placed in a water-bath , and the water was heated gradually until it boiled .
It was kept at this temperature nearly an hour .
There was no escape of gas at the stopper ; if the stopper ever did slip the silver being dissolved was rejected , and a fresh quantity was weighed .
The solution of the silver was made some time before it was required , so that the bottle and contents were quite cool when opened .
After carefully cleaning the neck and stopper of the bottle on the outside the stopper was loosened and washed down into the bottle , a little more water was added when the silver was found to be completely dissolved , and the solution to be perfectly clear .
The succeeding operations were performed in a room from which daylight was excluded .
The solution of cerous chloride was poured into the solution of silver nitrate in the bottle in which it was prepared , and the whole was well shaken .
The additional quantity of silver required for the complete precipitation of the chlorine was added by means of an approximately centinormal solution of silver nitrate , 1 grm. of which contained *001064 grm. of silver .
As I did not measure the quantity of the solution used but weighed it , I discarded the ordinary forms of burette in favour of a convenient sized bulb which I fused on to a glass stopcock ; in this shape it was more easily weighed .
The titration was made in an oblong box , divided into two compartments by a partition .
The inside of the box was well blackened .
In the partition a round hole was bored 1 ^ inch in diameter ; in the right-hand compartment a lamp was placed , and between it and the hole in the partition a spherical flask containing a solution of potassium chromate , so that the light from the lamp before passing through the hole had to pass through the yellow liquid in the flask .
In the left-hand compartment the bottle containing the chloride was placed in such a position that the upper portion and surface of the liquid it contained was illumined by the pencil of yellow light proceeding through the hole .
The burette was fixed in a stand in the box , so that it dropped the solution of silver nitrate into the bottle when the latter was in the best light .
By this arrangement the slightest turbidity produced in the liquid by the silver 156 Redetermination of the Atomic Weight of Cerium .
[ June 19 chloride is at once detected .
The credit of originating it is due to Stas .
With a little practice it soon becomes easy by observing the amount of turbidity produced by each addition of the silver nitrate to the chloride to know how many drops may be added the next time with safety , and as one drop of the solution of silver nitrate I used contained only of a mgrm .
of silver there was not much danger of adding an appreciable excess .
I have made seven determinations of .
the chlorine in cerous chloride by the method I have just described .
The mean of these determinations gives 139'8584 as the atomic weight of cerium when the atomic weight of hydrogen is taken as 1 ; if that of oxygen is taken as 16 then the number for cerium becomes 1402154 .
I have taken the specific gravity of cerous chloride by weighing it in carefully purified benzene , and I find it to be 3'88 compared with water at 15''5 .
Then making corrections for weighing in air for both the brass and platinum weights and for the cerous chloride , I find the atomic weight in vacuo when hydrogen is 1 to be 139'9035 , and when oxygen is 16 to be 140'2593 .
I thus find the atomic weight of cerium to be lower than Biihrig did , but I defer making comments on the work of others who have preceded me until I have made some determinations of cerous bromide .
This latter compound 1 have already succeeded in making by passing hydrobromic acid over cerium oxalate .
The ratios I have employed in this paper are those of Stas , and are as follows:\#151 ; If the atomic weight of hydrogen is 1 , that of oxygen is 15'96 , silver is 107'66 , and chlorine 35'37 .
The atomic weight of oxygen being 16 , that of silver is 107'93 , and of chlorine 34-457 .
The table below shows the quantities of silver and cerous chloride used in each experiment , and the ratios obtained .
No. of experiment .
Silver used .
Cerous chloride used .
Ratio of cerous chloride and cerium to 107 *66 of silver .
Ratio of cerous chloride and cerium to 107 *93 of silver .
The atomic weight of cerium .
grins .
grms. CeCl , Ce CeCls Ce Ag=107*66 Ag= 107*93 2 7 *26630 5 *5361 82 *0248 46 *6548 82*2309 46*7733 139*9644 140 *3205 3 7 *98077 6*0791 82 *0066 46 *6366 82*2110 46 *7540 139*9098 140 *2620 4 8 *50626 6*4761 81*9652 46 *5953 82*1710 46*7140 139*7856 140*1420 8 9 *18029 6 *98825 81*9533 46 *5833 82*1614 46 *7044 139*7499 140*1132 9 8*78015 6*6873 81*9968 46 *6268 82 *2036 46*7466 139*8804 140*2398 10 9 *20156 7*0077 81*9914 46*6214 82*1970 46*7400 139 *8642 140 *2200 11 9*13930 9 *6000 81*9881 46*6181 82*1937 46*7367 139 *8543 140 *2101

