1893 .
] Flame Spectra at High Temperatures .
II .
" Flame Spectra at High Temperatures .
Part I. Oxy-hydrogen Blowpipe Spectra .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. Received May 10 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) Brewster , in 1842 , first examined the spectra of salts with a flame of oxygen and coal-gas ( 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, ' vol. 6 , p. 145 ) .
Professor Norman Lockyer has given us maps of twenty-two metallic spectra at the temperature of the oxygen and coal-gas flame .
The region observed lies between \ 7000 and 4000 .
Prepai'atory to undertaking the study of spectroscopic phenomena connected with the Bessemer " blow " and the manufacture of steel generally , I have carefully observed the spectra of metals and metallic oxides obtained by submitting the substances to the oxyhydrogen flame .
Method of Investigation.\#151 ; The method of obtaining spectra with flames at high temperatures is the following .
Hydrogen proceeding from a large lead generator is burnt in a blowpipe with compressed oxygen .
The blowpipe measures 3 in .
in length by f in .
external diameter .
The substances examined are supported in the flame on small plates of kyanite about 2 in .
in length , in- in thickness , and j in .
in width .
This mineral , which is found in masses in Co. Donegal , contains 96 per cent , of aluminium silicate , and is practically infusible .
The spectra were all photographed with the instrument employed by me on form.er occasions for photographing ultraviolet spectra , illustrations of which were published in the ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 41 , p. 91 , 1882 .
The dispersion of the instrument was that of one quartz prism of 60 ' .
Isochromatic plates developed with hydroquinone were larg'ely used .
Various dyes for sensitising and all kinds of developing substances were tried .
The spectra ivere measured with an ivory scale divided into hundredths of an inch , and directly applied to the photographs , the division 20 on the scale being made to coincide with the yellow sodium line which appears in every photograph .
It was found convenient to record the measurements on a gelatino-bromide paper print taken from an enlarged negative .
Sometimes , for more careful and minute reference , it was found convenient to make an enlargement of the spectrum with the scale in position , but accurate measurements cannot be made in this way .
It is necessary to use a low magnifying power and cross " wires in the eye-piece .
For the identification of lines already known nothing more complicated is required , but to measure new lines and bands it was considered desirable to make use of a micrometer and microscope , the 6 Flame Spectra at High Temperatures .
[ June 1 , screw of the micrometer was cut with 100 threads to the inch , and the magnifying power generally used was 10 diameters .
Characters and Extent of the Spectra observed.\#151 ; Just as in the ordinary use of the spectroscope we must be prepared to see the lines of sodium , and in hydrocarbon flames the bands of carbon , so in these spectra the sodium lines and the strongest lines belonging to the emission spectrum of water vapour are also always present .
In addition , the kyanite yields the red line of lithium , which is no inconvenience but a positive advantage , serving , as it does , to indicate where the spectra commence .
A large majority of the metals and their compounds all terminate somewhere about the strongest series of water vapour lines .
Typical non-metallic spectra are sulphur , selenium , and tellurium ; the first yields a continuous spectrum with a series of beautiful fluted bands , the second a series of fine bands , occurring at closer intervals , and the third is characterised by bands still closer together and near the more refrangible termination of which four lines occurring in Hartley and Adeney 's spark spectrum of tellurium are visible .
Increase in atomic mass causes shorter periods of recurrence of bands .
In line spectra it is the reverse ; increase in atomic mass causes greater periods in the recurrence of lines .
Charcoal and carbon monoxide yield chiefly continuous spectra ; the latter , however , exhibits some carbon lines .
The hydrocarbons yield the well-known spectrum of carbon bands with also those attributed to cyanogen .
Of metallic elements , nickel , chromium , and cobalt yield purely line spectra ; antimony , bismuth , silver , tin , lead , and gold beautiful banded spectra ( spectra of the 1st order ) accompanied by some few lines .
These spectra are finer than those of selenium and tellurium .
Iron and copper exhibit lines , and , less prominently , bands .
Manganese has a beautiful series of bands and a group of three very closely adjacent lines .
Aluminium gives a fine continuous spectrum with three lines , origin uncertain , zinc a continuous spectrum without lines , and cadmium a spectrum consisting of one single line only , X 3260-2 .
Of compounds , chromic trioxide yields a continuous spectrum with six lines belonging to the metal , copper oxide a fine band spectrum with two lines of the metal , magnesium sulphate gives a spectrum of magnesium oxide consisting of broad degraded bands composed of closely adjacent fine lines and one line belonging to the metal , A. 2852 .
The sulphates of calcium , strontium , and barium give both bands of the oxides and lines of the elements .
Phosphorus pentoxide yields a continuous spectrum with one peculiar line , seen also in the spectrum of arsenic .
The chlorides of the alkalis give also lines of the elements with a more or less continuous spectrum , which , it is believed , is due to On the Flow in Electric Circuits .
1893 .
] the metal in each case .
Lithium chloride gives no continuous spectrum .
The Volatility of Metals.\#151 ; One of the most interesting facts ascertained by this investigation is the volatility of all the metals examined , except platinum , and particularly the extraordinary volatility of manganese , and , to some extent , of the infusible metal iridium .
Metal believed to be pure iridium is seen to have diminished after the flame has played upon it for about two hours .
III .
" On the Flow in Electric Circuits of Measurable Inductance and Capacity ; and on the Dissipation of Energy in such Circuits .
" By Alfred W. Porter , B.Sc. , Demonstrator of Physics in University College , London .
Communicated by Professor G. Carey Foster , F.R.S. Received May 4 , 1893 .
The arrangement of the apparatus in the experiments here described was as follows :\#151 ; L is a coil of self-inductance L ( = 0'42 henry ) and of resistance R ( = 28 ohms ) .
S is a condenser of capacity S ( = 5 x 10-6 farads ) , and in the same branch with it is an inductionless resistance , r , the value of which can be varied .
E is a battery which , when the circuits shown are complete , produces a current through L , and charges the condenser .
A and B are the two contact pieces of a pendulum interruptor .
The two circuits can be broken at these places by the pendulum : the time interval between the two ruptures being regulated by the distance between the contact pieces .
One centimetre distance apart corresponds to 5'270 thousandths of a second , and , as this distance can be read easily ( by a vernier attached ) to a tenth of a millimetre , it is possible to measure intervals of 5 hundred-thousandths of a second .
The method of the experiments is as follows :\#151 ;

