352 On the so-called " Peripheral Reflex Secretion " of the Pancreas .
" On the Causation of the so-called ' Peripheral Reflex Secretion ' of the Pancreas .
( Preliminary Communication .
) " By W\lt ; M. Bayliss , D.Sc .
, and Ernest H. Starling , M.D. , F.R.S. Received January 22 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1902 .
( Prom the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Introduction .
It has long been known that the introduction of acid into the duodenum causes a flow of pancreatic juice , and it has been shown recently by Popielski , and by Wertheimer and Le Page , that this flow still occurs after nervous isolation of duodenum and pancreas .
Wertheimer also mentions that the flow can be excited by injection of acid into the jejunum , but not by introduction of acid into the lower* part of the ileum .
These authors conclude that the secretion is a local reflex , the centres being situated in the scattered ganglia of the pancreas , or , in the case of the jejunum , in the ganglia of the solar plexus ( Wertheimer ) .
Results .
The secretion excited by introduction of acid into the jejunum cannot be reflex , since it occurs after extirpation of the solar plexus and destruction of all the nervous filaments passing to the isolated loop of jejunum .
It also occurs after intravenous injection of 0'01 gramme atropin sulphate .
It must therefore be due to direct excita-tion of the gland cells by a substance or substances conveyed to the I gland from the bowel by the blood stream .
The exciting substance is not acid .
Wertheimer has shown that injection of 0'4 per cent. HC1 into the blood stream has no excitatory 1 influence on the pancreas .
The secretion must therefore be due to some substance produced in | the intestinal mucous membrane under the influence of the acid , and | carried thence by the blood stream to the gland .
This conclusion was at once confirmed by experiment .
When the mucous membrane of the jejunum or duodenum is exposed I to the action of 0*4 per cent. HC1 a body is produced which , when \#171 ; injected in minimal doses into the blood stream , produces a copious | secretion of pancreatic juice .
This body , which for the present we 1 may term secretin , is associated with another body with a pronounced I lowering effect on the blood pressure .
The two bodies are not identical , 1 since acid extracts of the lower end of the ileum produce the pressure- 1 lowering effect , but have no excitatory influence on the pancreas .
The action of the acid is to split off the secretin from a precursor , I Meeting of January 30 , 1902 .
353 prosecretin , which is present in relatively large amounts in the duodenal mucous membrane , gradually diminishing as we descend the intestine .
* The prosecretin is apparently slightly soluble in 0'9 per cent. NaCI solution .
It has no influence on the pancreatic secretion .
| The secretin may also be split off from its precursor by boiling this with 0'9 per cent , saline .
I The acid extract may be boiled , neutralised , and filtered without losing its activity .
The active filtrate contains some primary albumoses , which may be precipitated by addition of large excess of alcohol and ether , and have no action on the pancreas .
The alcoholic ethereal filtrate contains only a small amount of organic material , but on evaporating to dryness and taking up the residue with water , the solution obtained is as active as the original infusion .
s These results indicate that secretin is probably a body of very definite composition , and of small molecular weight .
Dr. Osborne is at present engaged in an investigation of its chemical characters and identity .
A chemical sympathy between different organs has often been | assumed , as , e.g. , between uterus and mammary glands , but we believe \ that this is the first case in which direct experimental proof has been [ afforded of such a relationship .
It is probable , however , that this I acid-duodenum-pancreas mechanism will prove to be but one of a whole I class of similar mechanisms , the study of which should considerably I increase our control of the various chemical function ?
of the body .
In the light of the results here noted , a revision of Pawlow 's expen-I ments is necessary .
In none of these latter was a possible expulsion I of acid from stomach into duodenum excluded .
We have so far failed I to obtain a secretory effect on the pancreas by stimulation of the vagi , I and are therefore rather sceptical of the alleged presence in these nerves I of secretomotor fibres to the pancreas .
We are continuing our experi-I ments on this and kindred points .
January 30 , 1902 .
Dr. W. T. BLANFORD , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; : I. " The Chemical Origins of the Lines in Nova Persei .
By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S.

