286 Dr. T. Ewan .
[ June 21 , 2 .
The spectrum is different in different parts of the nebula .
3 .
The spectrum hears a striking resemblance to that of the planetary nebulae and bright line stars .
4 .
The suggestion , therefore , that these are bodies which mast be closely associated in any valid scheme of classification , is con-firmed .
5 .
Many of the lines which appear bright in the spectrum of the nebula appear dark in the spectra of stars of Groups II and III ; and in the earlier stars of Group IV , and a gradual change from bright to dark lines has been found .
6 .
The view , therefore , that bright line stars occupy an intermediate position between nebulae and stars of Groups II and III is greatly strengthened by these researches .
XIV .
" On the Absorption Spectra of Dilute Solutions .
" By Thos .
Ewan , B.Sc. , Ph. D. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar in Chemistry in the Owens College .
Communicated by Professor H. Dixon , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The measurements recorded in the paper were made in the hope of obtaining some information as to the molecular condition of salts in dilute solution .
In order to obtain exact quantitative results it is necessary to measure the extinction coefficients of the solutions .
For this purpose a new spectrophotometer was devised , by means of which it was possible to work with very dilute solutions .
In this instrument , by the advice of Professor A. Schuster , F.R.S. , a Lummer and Brodhun photometric prism was used , and the photometric measurements were made by means of Abney 's rotating sector .
The absorption spectra of solutions of cupric sulphate , chloride bromide and nitrate , containing generally O'003 to 0'004 gr. mol .
per litre , were measured and found to be , within the limits of experimental error , identical .
The solutions of cupric acetate absorb , for the same amount of copper , much more light than those of the other salts used .
The difference tends to disappear as the solutions become more dilute , and it is increased by the addition of acetic acid .
These facts point to the conclusion that the difference is due to the incomplete electrolytic dissociation of the salt , and to the undissociated part having an absorption spectrum differing from that of the dissociated part .
Dilute solutions of the potassium and ammonium salts of \#171 ; -dinitro-phenol ( 1 ' 2 .
4 ) were found to possess very nearly the same absorp1891 .
] On the Absorption Spectra of Dilute 287 tion spectrum .
The mean of the numbers obtained for these two salts was regarded as the absorption spectrum of the ion C6H3(ISr02)20 .
The solution of dinitrophenol in hydrochloric acid ( containing the undissociated molecule CeH^NO^OH ) absorbs very little light ; it is almost colourless .
The extinction coefficients of dinitrophenol , and of its coloured ion , being thus known , it was possible to calculate from measurement of the extinction coefficients of a series of solutions of dinitrophenol* in pure water , its degree of dissociation in these solutions .
The numbers thus obtained were in very satisfactory agreement with the numbers calculated from the electrical conductivity of the solutions .
As an example of the hydrolytic decomposition of a salt in aqueous solution , to the study of which the spectro-photometric method can be advantageously applied , ferric chloride was taken .
By filtering dilute solutions of ferric chloride through a porous cell all the colloid ferric hydroxide formed can be removed ; and analyses of the solutions before and after filtration showed that the hydroxide formed in solutions containing less than 0-005 gram molecule of FeCl3 per litre contains no chlorine .
The decomposition which occurs in these solutions may thus be most simply expressed by the equation FeCl3+ 3H2O^Fe(OH)3 + 3HC1 .
The photometric determinations of the quantity of ferric hydroxide formed in these solutions agreed fairly well with the results of the filtration experiments , though , owing to the difficulty in obtaining the solutions of ferric chloride perfectly clear , they were not so satisfactory as could be desired .
The quantities of ferric hydroxide formed were not in agreement with the law of Guldberg and Waage , but agreed much better with the modified form of the law due to Arrhenius , in which the electrolytic dissociation of the different substances is taken into account .
It was observed that solutions of ferric hydroxide obtained by dissolving ferric chloride in a very large quantity of water , had a different absorption spectrum from that of solutions of ferric hydroxide obtained by dialysis .
It is suggested that an explanation of this fact may be found in the differences in the complexity7 ' of the molecular aggregates existing in the different solutions .
Finally , solutions of ferric chloride , to which small quantities of hydrochloric acid had been added , possess such comparatively small power of absorbing light that they cannot be regarded as containing any colloid hydroxide of iron .

