" On Thallium .
" By WILLIAM CROOKES , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 5 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) After discussing the occurrence and distribution of the new metal in different parts of the globe , the author proceeds to describe the method adopted by him for extracting it from its ore .
Thalliferous pyrites is distilled at a bright red heat , in quantities of about 1 cwt .
at a time , in cast-iron retorts .
The resulting sulphur , varying from 13 to 17 per cent. of the pyrites taken , is then dissolved in aqueous caustic soda , which leaves the sulphide of thallium as an insoluble black precipitate ; this is filtered off , dissolved in acids , and the thallium precipitated in the form of iodide .
This is then converted into sulphate , and the metal reduced from the solution by electrolysis .
It is obtained in the coherent form by fusion under cyanide of potassium .
The physical characteristics of thallium are then described .
In appearance it most resembles tin and cadmium , but has a distinct colour of its own ; it has a brilliant metallic lustre , and is susceptible of taking a very high polish ; it oxidizes in the air with almost the rapidity of an alkaline metal , but when coated with oxide , the metal may be freely handled and exposed to the air with scarcely any further change .
An oxidized surface applied to the tongue is very biting and caustic , and has a sweetish metallic taste .
It is the softest known metal admitting of free exposure to the atmosphere , being scratched by soft lead with the greatest ease .
It makes a dark blue mark upon paper , rapidly turning yellow , which in the course of a few hours nearly fades out , but can be restored with sulphide of ammonium .
It has little tenacity , is very malleable , and may be readily pressed into wire .
The specific gravity of thallium varies from 11881 to 11'91 , and it is probably capable of still greater condensation .
When freshly prepared , thallium wire is perfectly amorphous , but when kept in water it gradually assumes a superficial crystalline appearance : this effect is immediately produced when thallium in wire , ingot , or plate , tarnished or clean , is boiled in water .
Its melting-point is 550 ?
F. , being between bismuth and lead , and the metal does not become pasty before undergoing complete fusion .
Two pieces of clean metal weld together by pressure in the cold .
It begins to volatilize at a red heat , and boils below a white heat ; it may be distilled in a current of hydrogen .
It is a pretty good conductor of heat and electricity , and stands electro-chemically very near cadmium .
It is strongly diamagnetic , ranking in this respect near bismuth .
The alloys which thallium forms with different metals are next described .
Further details are given respecting the spectrum of thallium : the characteristic green line is perfectly single under a very high magnifving power and after refraction through nine heavy glass prisms ; and no new lines make their appearance at the temperature of the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , -although , with the electric spark , Dr. Miller has shown that several new lines come into existence .
The delicacy of the optical test for thallium is roughly estimated , the 5oIo 00oth of a grain being easily perceptible .
The atomic weight of thallium is given as 203 , being the mean of five experiments .
The author states , however , that this is not to be regarded as a final result .
The chemical properties of thallium are next described .
It does not decompose water even at the boiling-point , but remains bright under this liquid .
The superficial tarnish is a powerful base soluble in water , and reacting like an alkaline solution .
Melted in the air , thallium forms a readily fusible oxide , its behaviour resembling that of lead .
The formation of thallic acid and the properties of some of the thallates are described .
Sulphate , nitrate , the chlorides , sulphide , iodide , and other salts of thallium are described in detail .
The metal may be quantitatively determined by precipitation , either as protochloride , iodide , or platinochloride .
The position of thallium amongst elementary bodies is then discussed .
Although one or two of its properties show a resemblance to the alkaline metals , the author does not agree with continental chemists in classing it with this group , -numerous facts proving that its true position is by the side of mercury , lead , or silver .
The ready dehydration of its basic oxide ; the insolubility of its sulphide , iodide , chloride , bromide , chromate , phosphate , sulphocyanide , and ferrocyanide ; its great atomic weight ; its ready reduction by zinc to the metallic state ; its power of forming a strongly acid oxide ; and , according to Dr. Miller , the complexity of its photographic spectrum , -all prove that thallium cannot consistently be classed anywhere but amongst the heavy metals , mercury , silver , lead , &amp;c. No weight is attached to M. Dumas 's argument in favour of thallium being related to potassium and sodium because its equivalent is rather near a figure obtained by adding twice the atomic weight of one metal to four times the atomic weight of the other .
The author shows that , by similar processes of addition , multiplication , or subtraction , it is not difficult to prove that thallium is related to any desired group of elements .
The author gives full analytical notes on thallium , showing where it would occur in the ordinary course of analysis , and detailing accurate methods of separating it from every metal with which it can be accompanied .

