XII .
" On the apparent relation of the Nerves to the Muscular Structures in the Aquatic Larva of Tipula crystallina of De Geer .
" By RICHARD L. MADDOX , M.D. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY .
Received June 18 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) To avoid as much as possible errors that might be attributable to a faulty mode of examination , the figures and photographs have all been made from the larvte alive , and in their natural medium , except two instances in the drawings and one in the photographs .
After alluding to the effects of various reagents which were generally found useless in " differentiating " the fine nervous structures , and the ordinary mode of branching in the nerves from the ganglionic chain , two particular methods of termination are selected as illustrative of the relation between the muscular and nervous tissues .
One , termed the " flabelliform , " 1867 .
] 61 where the nerve on approaching the muscular sheath expands into a fan shape , and with its fine granular and nucleated contents embraces the muscle in form of the letter A , without any evidence of the granular matter and sarcous elements being in absolute contact ; the other , called the " stapiform " or stirrup-shaped .
The latter , in its early stage , is knobbed in appearance .
This , the early stage , is shown gradually passing into the cellular , looped , or stirrup form , embracing the fine muscular structure somewhat obliquely , or passing entirely round it , and projecting beyond its edge .
In this form also there was no evidence of any union of the granular contents with the sarcous elements , though firm union existed between their sheaths or outer membranes .
Fine networks , ending apparently in a granular irregular spot with a pale centre and uniting , are pointed out .
The relation and union of short muscles passing between others , and nerve-fibres lying alongside them , with filabelliform expansions , are remarked on , and shown in the figures and photographs .
Muscles unndergoing degeneration , or the metamorphic change , are noticed , and in no instance could a nerve-fibre be seen attached to them , or a fibre that could with certainty be traced to any nerve or ganglion .
No change was observed of a definite character , as regards the mode of union , under muscular contraction .
Some of the finest muscular fibres are passed by for special reasons , as constant motion &amp;c. Attention is called to the blood-corpuscles , or to corpuscles which , for convenience , are called creeping corpuscles , and several figures given .
The peculiarities of these bodies are regarded as of considerable importance , and , coupled with a remark in Dr. Beale 's contribution to the Transactions of the Royal Society , read May 21st , 1863,.in reference to the movement of all forms of living matter .
A figure is given of the head of the larva , with the pharyngeal portion of the digestive tract exserted , which was kept alive for many days ; also of the beautiful buccal plexus regarded as nervous , though not traced from its source .
Attention is directed to the difference in the condition of the larva when this portion is exserted by compression , causing death .
The difficulties attending this double method of delineation arising from muscular contraction , from the movements of the dorsal vessel , and the digestive tube , and from the thickness of the tissues within and beyond the true focus , rendered almost hopeless the efforts to attain exactness between the drawings and the photographs , or the rendering by sunlight alone of the minutest points , especially with high powers ; still the photographs are associated to give a truthfulness to the figures by hand .
The terminations of some nerves in the blood-red larva of another gnat , showing the distinct flabelliform arrangement , are also briefly alluded to , with figures to sustain the views advanced .
62 [ June 20 ,

