]\gt ; Molecular Constitution and gnetic S was found by Osborne Reynolds to express the resistance with fair accuracy from ( at the critical velocity ) to .
The authors ' experiments confirm this conclusion , but show that , when the range is extended to , the index law fails when applied to bhe whole range .
The paper also contains an experimental determine ation of the variation of the ratio of the mean velocity to the maximum velocity of fluids in pipes through a range in from 2500 to 72,000 , and shows that the ratio is not constant , as has been supposed , but is a function of The Influence of onstitut , and Temperature on gnetic S By A. E. OXLEY , B.A. , M.Sc .
, Coutts Trotter Student , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. J. J. Thomson , O.M. ; F.R.S. Received December 17 , ] \mdash ; Read January 29 , 1914 .
) ( Abstract .
) On the hypothesis that the molecules of liquid and crystalline substances are distorted by the forces exerted on them by the suzrounding molecules , it may be expected that the transition from the liquid to the crystalline state will be accompanied by a change in the specific magnetic property of the substances to an extent dependent upon the nature of an individual molecule and its grouping with other molecules .
* If this change of specific diamagnetic susceptibility be noted by , we may write , where and are the specific susceptibilities of the crystals and the liquid , and and are the diamagnetic moments induced in a distorted molecule of the crystalline and liquid states , respectively , by the applioation of a magnetic field H. is the number of molecules per gramme of the substance .
In the present investigations , about 20 organic substaness , most of which are of an aromatic nature , have been examined and the results are recorded in Part I of the main communication .
A large number of experiments have been made on the variation of the specific susceptibility over an interval of temperature ranging from * See ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc vol. 16 , p. 486 ( 1912 ) .
396 Mr. A. E. Oxley .
The Influence of Jfolecula ?
C. to 20 C. For details concerning the method of experiment and the elimination of errors due to disturbing sources reference is made to the main paper .
It has been found that the Curie law of constancy of diamagnetism holds for most of the substances , to within the limits of experimental error , pro .
viding there is no appreciable change of molecular constitution with va1iation of temperature .
During the transition from the liquid to the crystalline state there is an appreciable change of , which amounts with benzene derivatives to 5 per cent. ( approximate ) of the susceptibility .
Nitrobenzene is exceptional and gives an abnormally large value of .
If the substance does not crystallise but passes into a super-cooled liquid or jelly state , the value of is too small to be detected .
This jelly state was obtained with many of the oompounds examined .
This result is in accordance with the observations of M. Chaudier , has investigated , for these same substances , the variation of the magnetic rotatory power which accompanies the passage from the liquid to the crystalline state .
According to Chaudier the magnetic rotation of the super-cooled liquid or jelly is the same as that of the liquid above the normal fusion point , but if the substance crystallises the rotatory power disappears completely .
With benzophenolle a complete hysteresis loop with respect to temperature has been obtained , similar to those discovered by the Iate Prof. Hopkinson in the case of nickel-steels .
The fusion point of the diamagnetic crystals corresponds to the critical temperature of the nickel-steel and the heat of formation of the crystals in the former case to the heat evolved ( recalescence ) at the clitical temperature of the nickel-steel .
The general results are considered in connection with our knowledge of crystal structure , with which they are consistent if the appearance of the crystalline state implies a small deformation of the molecules .
It appears that the diamagnetic property of substances is complex and very similar to the magnetic property possessed by ferro-magnetic substances above and below the critical temperature .
The only difference between the two types of phenomena is due to the nature of the etic moment associated with an individual molecule and by the variation of which the changes of molecular constitution are disclosed .
In Part II a theoretical interpretation of the effects which have been observed is given .
The electron theory of magnetism developed by M. Langevin for the gaseous state is extended by taking into account the mutual forces between the molecules of the liquid and crystalline states .
These forces 'Compt .
Rend vol. 166 , p. 1529 ( 1913 ) .
Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys ser. viii , vol. 5 , p. 70 ( 1906 ) .
Constitution and Temperature on Magnetic Susceptibility .
397 produce a polarisation effect in every molecule , and if and are the polarisation constants of the crystalline and states respectively , then , interpreting the distorting forces magnetically , it has been shown that where is a small adjustment of the applied magnetic field , , due to the alteration of the self-induction of the electron orbits which aocompanies an small deformation of the molecules of a substance in the liquid state , and is the corresponding adjustment associated with the crystalline state .
is of the order 1/ 3 and is negligible in comparison with , which is at least of the order 100 and probably is much greater .
This minimum value of was deduced from Chaudier 's observation that the netic rotatory power of aniline , benzene , and nitro-benzene disappears completely on crystallisation .
The relatively small value of for the liquid state is due to an polarisation effect produced by the random distribution of orientations of the surrounding molecules , whereas the value of for the crystalline state depends upon the fact that the surrounding molecules are definitely orientated with respect to any particular molecule .
The large value of leads at once to the representation of the change of when the substance crystallises as due to a mean molecular field in the diamagnetic medium , which takes the place of the effects produced by the mutual forces between the molecules , and which may be written in either of the forms . .
where N. is the interlsity of magnetisation of the lbstanoe , being the diamagnetic moment induced in the molecule and the density of the substance .
This is analogous to the interpretation , given by M. Weiss , of the mutual influences of the molecules of a ferro-magnetic substance by means of a molecular field Nr , where I is the saturation intensiCy of magnetisation of the ferro-magnetic substance and is the constant of the letic field .
The order of magnitude of and is the same , and this leads to the conclusion that the local molecular field in diamagnetic substances ( at least those substances which have been examined ) is comparable with the molecular field in netic substances .
Such a large local moleoular field would account for the rigidity of crystal structure in general .
Several extensions of this work have been completed and the conclusions which have been obtained are in ha1mony with.those already described .
I hope to publish an account of hese extensions soon .
VOL. XC.\mdash ; A.

