1882 .
] Dr. W. Flight .
Meteorites .
and if we equate to zero tLe coefficients of x\ ** , we shall have the equations\#151 ; ( a , b ) 1)\#151 ; 0 , ( a , b , c , d)( 1)3=0 , ( a , b , c , d , e , / )(w , 1)5=0 .
Whence , eliminating w between the first and second of these , we obtain\#151 ; .
, A ( a , b , c , d)(b , 0 , ( a , b , c , d , e , f)(b , \#151 ; a)'=0 ; or , developing the expressions , a ?
d-3abc + 2bs=Q ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ( II .
* * * * * * * X ) as before , and aif\#151 ; SaPbc+lOaPbU\#151 ; 10a\amp ; 3c+465=0 ... - ( 2 ) .
In order to bring this to the same form as the condition found by the other method , we have only to write , for ( 2 ) , the following , viz. , 3(2)\#151 ; 10\amp ; 3(1 ) = 0 , which gives 3a4/ \#151 ; 15a36e-f 20a ?
b2d\#151 ; 8\amp ; '=0 , cis licforG .
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further , as the method is perfectly general and obvious in its application .
II .
" Report of an Examination of the Meteorites of Cranbourne , Australia ; of Rowton , Shropshire ; and of Middlesbroug l , in Yorkshire .
" By Walter Flight , D.Sc .
, F.G.S. , ot the Department of Mineralogy , British Museum , South Kensington .
Communicated by H. Debus , Ph. D. , F.lv.o .
e ceived January 19 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) I.\#151 ; The Siderites of Cranbourne , near Melbourne , The large masses of meteoric iron found at Cranboume , near Mel bourne , Australia , were known as far back as 1854 .
The laiger oc ~ was bought by Mr. A. Bruce , now of Chisleburst , foi one sovereign , who determined to present it to the British Museum .
The sma er mass , weighing a few hundredweight , became the property of r. Abel , and was sent to the International Exhibition of 1862 .
ien Dr. W. Flight .
bn Meteorites .
[ Feb. 9 , the block belonging to Mr. Bruce came to be uncovered and moved it was found to weigh 3$ tons .
Some difficulties arose respecting its shipment to England , and eventually Mr. Abel 's block was purchased for 300Z .
by the Trustees of the British Museum , and presented to the colony , and the larger mass was sent to this country .
They lay 3-6 miles apart ; and the major axis of the Bruce meteorite , some 5 English feet , lay exactly in the magnetic meridian of the place .
The Bruce meteorite consists entirely of metallic minerals , and contains no rocky matter whatever .
The iron contains no combined carbon , but from 7 to 9 per cent , of nickel , some cobalt , a little silicium , and copper ; and , distributed through its mass , rather less than 1 per cent , of bright , apparently square prisms of a phosphide .
Lying on the plates of meteoric iron , which make up the mass , were found thin metallic plates of the thickness of writing paper , ' of a flexible mineral , which had the composition Fe5Ni3 .
It is this mineral which forms the figures on etched surfaces ' , and not schrei-berite as generally stated .
I propose to call this compound Edmond-sonite , in memory of the late George Edmondson , the Head Master of Queenwood College , a great lover of science ; a man with whom 1 had the honour to be long and intimately connected .
Nodules of troilite , varying from half an inch to two inches in length , are frequently met with .
The composition of the sulphide proved it to be the iron monosulphide beyond question .
Occasionally nodules of graphite were noticed , enclosing troilite in curious pointed forms , so that a section resembles the outline of a holly leaf .
The prisms already referred to appear to be identical with the mineral to which Gustav Rose gave the name of rhabdite , and to have the composition indicated by the formula ( Fe4Ni3)P .
The resemblance between them and the phosphide described by Sidot , and more recently by Mallard , is gone into .
A very brittle coarse powder , left by treating the iron with acid , yielded what appears to be schreibersite with the formula O'* 2^ ' ' Among the debris of the meteorite were occasionally found large brass-coloured oblique crystals ; these readily cleave across the base , and have a composition according with the formula ( Ee9Ni2)P2 .
There were also curious crystals met with on two or three occasions , apparently square prisms , which , while the sides were quite bright and metallic , had a square centre of a dull , almost black , coloui ; this also is a phosphide , and has a composition closely according with the formula ( Fe7Ni3)P .
Graphite occurs occasionally , but rarely , as nodules , sometimes as nodules enclosing troilite , in one case in a mass extending over an area 4 inches in length by 2 inches wide .
It contained from 0-25 to-0'30 per cent , of hydrogen .
The occluded gases amounted in bulk to 3*59 times the volume of the iron , and consisted of\#151 ; 1882 .
] Dr. W. Flight .
Meteorites .
Carbonic acid ... ... ... ... .
0 '12 Carbonic oxide ... ... ... ... 31 '88 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... 45 '79 Marsh-gas ... ... ... ... ... ... 4 '55 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... . .
17 '66 Drawings of the meteoric iron in situ accompany the paper .
II.\#151 ; The Rowton Sideriteor Meteoric Iron .
The metallic mass next to be described is one of unusual interest in more than one respect : in the first place , before it fell , only one iron meteorite was known to have fallen in Great Britain , while eight stony meteorites that have fallen in the British Islands are in the National Collection ; and , secondly , of the more than 300 meteorites which aie contained in the collection in the Natural History Museum more than 100 are unquestionably iron meteorites , and of these the fall of seven only has been witnessed .
This iron fell at about twenty minutes to four on the afternoon of the 20th April , 1876 , in a turf-field adjoining the Wellington and Market Drayton Railway , about a mile north of the Wrekin , on land belonging to the Duke of Cleveland , at Rowton , near Wellington , Shropshire .
A strange rambling noise was heard in the air , followed instantaneously by a startling explosion resembling a discharge of heavy artillery .
Rain was falling heavily at the time .
About an hour later a man entering the field had his attention attracted by a hole cut in the ground ; he probed it with a stick , when he found a bloek of meteoric iron weighing 7| lbs. It had penetrated to a depth of 18 inches ; the hole was nearly perpendicular , but the stone appears to have fallen in a south-easterly direction .
When removed from the hole the mass was still quite warm .
It is covered with a thin dull black crust of the magnetic oxide , though in certain spots the metallic character of the block is revealed , especially at the point where it struck the earth .
It closely resembles the iron of Nedagolla , in India .
Some fragments were analysed , and found to contain iron 9T25 and 9T046 , nickel 8'582 , cobalt 0'3/ 1 , and a trace of copper .
A part of a nodule of troilite , which was found not to be in the slightest degree magnetic , and was covered with a thin layer of graphite , was submitted to analysis ; and there was found sulphur 36'073 per cent. , theory requiring 36'36 per cent. Some fragments of iron were sawn into very thin plates , and the gases contained in them pumped out .
The gas collected was 6'38 times the bulk of the iron used , and its composition proved to be\#151 ; 34:6 Dr. W. Flight .
On .
[ Feb. 9 , Carbonic acid Hydrogen Carbonic oxide 7 *345 Nitrogen 100 *000 A drawing of the Rowton iron , and of a section showing the figures , accompanies the paper .
HI-\#151 ; The Meteorite of Middlesbrough , Yorltshire .
During the past year a very beautiful specimen of a meteorite fell near Middlesbrough , at a spot called Pennyman 's Siding on the North Eastern Railway Company^ branch line from Middlesbrough to Guisbrough , about one mile and three-quarters from the former town .
Its descent was witnessed by W. Ellinor and three platelayers , who heard a whizzing or rushing noise in the air , followed in a second or two by a sudden blow of a body striking the ground not far from them ; the spot was found to be 48 yards from where they stood .
The fall took place at 3'35 p.m. on the 14th JVlarch , 1881 .
No luminous or cloud-forming phenomena are reported .
According to Professor Alexander Herschel , who at once visited the spot , the fall appears to have been nearly vertical .
The stone was " new milk warm " when found , and weighed 3 lbs. 8^ oz. ; the crust is very perfect and of an unusual thickness , and has scarcely suffered by the fall .
The stone forms a low pyramid , slightly scolloped or conchoidal-looking , inches in length , 5 inches wide , and 3 inches in height .
The rounded summit and sloping sides are scored and deeply grooved , with a polish like black lead in waving furrows running to the base , showing that this side came foremost during the whole of the fusing action of the atmosphere which the meteorite underwent in its flight .
The base is equally fused by heat , but is rough , dull brown in colour , and not scored or furrowed .
It penetrated the soil to a depth of 11 inches .
From experiments made by Professor Herschel it is calculated that it struck the ground with a velocity of 412 feet per second .
As it wnuld acquire this velocity by falling freely through half-a-mile , it is evident that little of the original planetary speed with which it entered the atmosphere can have remained over .
The stone contains 9*379 per cent , of nickel-iron , the composition of which was found to be\#151 ; Iron ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
76 *99 Nickel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
21 *32 Cobalt ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 69 100 *00 1882 .
] On Impact with a Liquid Surface .
The percentage of nickel is high ; but it is pointed out that in the nickel-iron present in meteoric stones the nickel rises in quantity as the ouantity of nickel-iron falls .
The remaining constituents consist of rocky matter , amounting to 90-621 per cent. , and are soluble silicate 54-315 per cent , and insoluble silicate 36-306 per cent. The soluble silicate appears to be an olivine of the form 2(\#163 ; Fe , fMg)0 , Si03 , or one closely resembling that which occurs in the Lance stone , which fell July 13th , 1872 , and was examined by Daubree .
The insoluble part is chiefly bronzite , and most closely resembles that which is to be found in the meteorites of Iowa co .
, Iowa , east of Marengo , which fell 12th February , 1875 , and were examined by Dr. L. Smith .
The aluminium constituent is doubtless labradonte , and is probably present as some of the occasional chondra which are seen in a microscopic section .
A plate showing three views of the stone accompanies the paper .
February 16 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Impact with A Liquid Surface .
" By A. M. Worthington , M.A. Communicated by Professor Osborne Reynolds , F.R.S. Received January 27 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The apparatus previously used* by the author for following the progress of the splash of liquid drops impinging on a solid plate has been improved .
The main principle of the method by which successive stages are isolated and rendered visible remains the same , viz. , instantaneous illumination at any desired stage by means of the primary spark of an induction coil ; but the timing of the illumination is now effected by a timing-sphere let fall simultaneously with the solid or liquid sphere whose impact is to be observed .
The timing-sphere strikes a plate whose height can be adjusted , and thereby starts the mechanical action which results in the spark .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 25 , pp. 261 , 498 .

