On the Diurnal Deviations of the Horizontal Needle when under the influence of Magnets .
By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. M.A. Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society : of the Royal Military Academy .
Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read June 19 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 342 .
] This paper contains a detailed account of a series of observations on the diurnal magnetic variation made upon the principle pointed out by Mr. Barlow , in his communication already before the Society .
In regard , however , to the arrangement adopted by the author , it differed from that of Mr. Barlow , for instead of applying a magnet in the horizontal plane of the needle he placed two in the line of the dip , having their poles in the reverse position to those of the needle .
In describing the results of his experiment , Mr. Christie calls the south pole of a magnet that which points to the north pole of the earth , so that the north end is the south pole , and the south end the north pole of his magnetic needles .
In stating the deviations from any point considered as zero , those which he places in the direction of the sun 's apparent daily motion are considered minus , and those in a contrary direction plus , whatever may be the position of the needle .
The results of Mr. Christie 's observations are given in the form of tables , the first of which extend from March 26 to March 31 , and exhibit manifest deviation towards the east before eight in the morning , and the greatest westerly deviation about one P.M. In a second series of observations , with another needle , the directive force of which was to the power as 1*63 to 1 , the times of the greatest easterly and westerly deviation agreed with the former , but the easterly was greater compared with the westerly .
In a third series the suspension of the needle was improved , and the magnets were so adjusted as to render its directive force as 0-68 to 1 .
With this needle the observations were made nearly every hour , from the 5th to the 12th of April , and the mean results give the greatest easterly variation at 7h 45m , the time of no deviation at 9"1 26m1 ; the greatest westerly deviation took place at 11 ' 24m , the time of zero being 6h 40m , and the total daily variation amounting to 30 41 ' .
After adverting to the influence of the weather , to irregularities referrible to the electric state of clouds , and to other causes of anomalies in prosecuting his inquiries , the author proceeds to determine the results of a numerous series of observations made as the former , but in which the position of the needle was somewhat altered , as well as that of the bar magnets ; and to examine into the daily changes which take place at the points at which a needle is retained in equilibrio by two bar magnets , which he is led to believe arise from an actual change of intensity in the terrestrial forces , as well as from a change in their directions .
The author concludes his paper with remarks upon the influence of temperature in diminishing the power of the magnets , and infers that solar heat exceeds any other in producing such an effect ; but that changes of temperature are not the only cause of the variations which take place in the points of equilibrium , is shown by their occurring independent of the temperature of the magnets .

