" Electro-Physiological Researches.-Fourth Memoir .
On the Physiological Action of the Electric Current .
" By Charles Mat- : teucci .
Communicated by Michael Faraday , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. In the prosecution of his inquiries on the physiological action of electric currents , the author found it necessary to employ an apparatus , which was expressly made for him by M. Breguet , adapted to the delicate appreciation of the intensity of the force of the muscular contractions excited by those currents ; of which apparatus he gives a minute description , illustrated by a drawing .
He was thus enabled to institute an exact comparison between the contractions caused by the direct , and those by the reverse currents , both at the commencement and at the termination of their action. .
The following are the general conclusions he deduces from the experiments thus conducted .
1 .
The passage of the electric current through a mixed nerve produces a variation in the excitability of the nerve , differing essentially in degree , according to the direction of the current through the nerve .
This excitability is weakened and ultimately destroyed ; and this takes place more or less rapidly according as the direct current , that is , a current circulating through the nerve from the centre to the periphery , is more or less intense .
On the other hand , by the passage of the same current in the contrary direction , that is , from the periphery to the centre , or the inverse t , the excitability is preserved and increased .
2 .
The variations in the excitability of the nerve produced by the passage of the current , tend to disappear more or less rapidly on the current ceasing .
If the nerve be taken from a living animal , or from one in which life is but just extinct , so that its excitability is very great , these variations last only as long as the current continues to circulate ; while , if the nerve has already lost some of its excitability , they survive the cessation of the current by a period of from one to ten or fifteen seconds .
3 .
If the same current be made to act upon a mixed nerve , the contraction which occurs on the first moment of its introduction is very different according to its direction ; the direct current always occasioning a stronger contraction than that produced by three inverse current .

