332 Lord Kelvin .
Note on Lord Paper .
[ Mar. 19 , I placed a vacuum-tube , A , behind a lead screen , BB , 18 in .
x 12^ in .
thick .
The screen had a 2-in .
hole in it with a 2-in .
pipe attached ; 4 in .
from the vacuum-tube was placed a speculum-metal mirror , 4 in .
X 2i , at an angle of 45 ' with the lead screen ; 4 in .
from the mirror was a light-tight zinc box , E , with aluminium window , F ; inside came first the objects , G , stuck on to a black cardboard , H , then I , the photographic plate .
The following objects were photographed in about 20 minutes :\#151 ; 1 .
Some brass clock wheels .
2 .
A screw-cutting gauge .
3 .
Two lead disks .
4 .
The mirrors , being two pieces of speculum-metal used by me to divide upon .
In Photograph 4 the crack between the plate can just be seen in the positive , but in the negative it is quite clear .
I hope to confirm the above experiments immediately : the delay ia caused by the vacuum-tubes having all broken down .
IV .
" Note on Lord Blythswood 's Paper .
" By Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1896 .
Rontgen , in ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) of his original paper , * described experiments seeming to prove the X rays to be incapable of regular reflection .
He pointed out that the result of his experiment in ( 8 ) , seeming possibly due to regular reflection , might be explained otherwise .
Communications to the French Academy of Sciences , by Imbei't and Bertin-Sans ( March 2 , ' Comptes Rendus , ' pp. 524 , 525 ) and Battelli and Garbasso ( March 9 , ' Comptes Rendus , ' p. 603 ) refer to experiments proving not regular reflection , as from a polished surface , but a " diffuse " reflection .
This , as Sir George Stokes has suggested in letters which I have received from him in the last few days , might either be due , as indicated by MM .
Imbert and Bertin-Sans , to the reflecting surface , though polished for ordinary light , being rugged for light of the exceedingly short wave-length which may be attributed with probability to the Rontgen X rays ; or else to a sort of phosphorescence , or possibly fluorescence , with regard to X light , produced in the substance of the mirror .
One , and only one , of the photographs described in Lord Blythswood 's communication , seems possibly decisive in proving regular reflection from the polished speculum-metal which he used .
I enclose a copy of it , which may be clearer than that which accompanies his paper .
In this I see quite clearly a straight line , with its two ends next the letters A , B , which for brevity I shall call the line AB .
The space for * Translation in * Nature , ' January 23 , 1896 .
1893 .
] Effect of Rontgen Rays on Contact .
about 2S cm .
, on the right-hand side of this line AB , is somewhat lighter than the space between it and the border about 10 cm .
on its left .
I find by careful measurement that the line AB is , at its end next A , 101*0 mm. from the last-mentioned border , and at a quarter of its length below B is 100*3 mm. from the same border .
Corresponding measurements by the same eye and hand on another print of the same .primary photograph , in which the line AB is scarcely visible , gave for its distance from the border at the end next A , 101*1 mm. From -these measurements , and from the appearance of the print accompanying this note , I am convinced that there is a real difference on the two sides of a sharp boundary line AB which , as I am informed by Lord Blytbswood , corresponds to the boundary between two mirrors of speculum-metal which were placed together in his \#166 ; experiment .
He promises further experiments with pieces of lead placed on the speculum-metal mirror .
He has already tried experiments with pieces of paper and pasteboard placed on it ; they show nothing on the photograph .
V. " On the Effect of the Rontgen X Rays on the Contact Electricity of Metals .
" By .Tames R ; Erskine Murray , B.Sc. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 3 , 1896 .
S 1 .
The experiments described in this communication were made in the Cavendish Laboratory of the University of Cambridge , at Professor J. J. Thomson 's suggestion , in order to find whether the contact potential of a pair of plates of different metals is in any way affected by the passage of the Rontgen " X " rays between the plates .
S 2 .
The vacuum bulb and induction coil for the production of the rays were enclosed in a box lined with metal , so that the plates and the apparatus used in measuring their contact potential difference should be screened from any direct electrical disturbances .
At one side of the box there was a circular hole of about 3 cm .
in diameter .
The vacuum bulb was placed just inside this hole , and directed so that the rays should stream out through it in a direction perpendicular to the side of the box In some experiments this hole was closed by a tinfoil screen , which allowed a large proportion of the rays to pass out while shutting in ordinary electrical disturbances .
The plates whose contact potential difference was to be measured were placed at a short distance outside the box , in such a position that the rays could fall on them .

