1878 .
] Prof. W. Turner on the of the Apes .
271 Dielectric .
* Bisulphide of carbon Chance 's optical glass .
Slabs nearly 1 inch thick .
Common plate glass , 2 slabs , each 1 inch thick , about .
Specific Inductive Capacity .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1-4474 Double extra dense flint ... .
1-6840 Extra dense flint ... ... ... 1*6727 Light flint ... ... ... ... ... .
1-6677 Hard crown ... ... ... ... \#171 ; ... 1*6872 ( 1 .
) ( 2 : ) \#163 ; SS }**".-.1'6918 The author suggests that the fact that all his results are much lower than those obtained by previous experimenters may perhaps be explained on a supposition that the specific inductive capacity of dielectrics increases from an inferior to a superior limit during the first small fraction of a second after the commencement of the electrification .
He discusses this question at some length in his ' paper.f An expression of thanks to Professor Maxwell , for his close superintendence of the work , concludes the paper .
IY .
" On the Placentation of the Apes , with a Comparison of the Structure of their Placenta with that of the Human Female .
" By William Turner , M.B. Lond. , F.R.S. , Professor of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh .
Received March 11 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The introductory chapter of this memoir consists of a summary of the observations of John Hunter , Rudolphi , Breschet , Owen , Huxley , Rolleston , Ercolani , and Kondratowicz , on the form and structure of the placenta in the apes .
The author then gives a detailed description of his dissection of the gravid uterus and placenta of a Macacus cyno-molgus well advanced in pregnancy .
He then enters into a detailed comparison between the form and structure of the placenta in the ape and that of the human female , in the course of which he records a number of original observations on the structure of the human placenta .
Attention is more especially drawn to .
the comparative structure of the decidua vera and serotina ; to the prolongations of the decidua serotina into the interior of the placenta ; to the arrangement , structure , and mode of origin of the intra-chorionic and sub-chorionic cells ; to the arrangement of the arteries and veins of the placenta ; * I cannot vouch , for the exact accuracy of this determination , as the method of experimenting on liquids is not yet quite perfected .
+ Note added April 7th .
Compare Ayrton and Perry , on the " Viscosity of Dielectrics , " read March 21 , 1878 .
272 Mr. Gore on Thermo-Electric Properties of Liquids .
[ Mar. 28 , to the intra-placental maternal blood-spaces ; the form and structure of the chorionic villi : and to the relation of the maternal blood to the capillaries of the villi .
The result of this comparison proves that the Macacus and human female closely correspond in the form of the uterus , and in the arrangement of the foetal membranes , and that they both possess a discoid placenta , which in the Macacus is divided into two lobes , but is not so divided in the human placenta .
In the arrangement and relative position of the constituent parts of the placenta they also correspond ; and although some differences of detail in the characters of some of the structures occur , yet , in the main features of construction , makroscopic as well as microscopic , they have a close resemblance to each other .
V. " On the Thermo-Electric Properties of Liquids .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 12 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication , the author has described an improved apparatus for examining the thermo-electric properties of liquids , by the use of which , with the precautions stated , all sources of error in such experiments appear to be removed ; he has also described a number of experiments he has made with it , and the results obtained .
By employing a sufficient number and variety of electrically-conducting solutions , of acids , salts , and alkalies , in those experiments , he has discover^ several exceptions to the usual effect he had formerly obtained , viz. , that acid liquids are thermo-electro-positive , and alkaline ones thermo-electro-negative ; and has sketched a diagram representing the thermo-electric behaviour of heated platinum in three of the exceptional liquids .
Reasoning upon the satisfactory results obtained , he concludes :\#151 ; 1st .
That the electric currents are not produced by chemical action ; 2nd .
Nor by a temporary disassociation of the constituents of the liquid ; 3rd .
Nor by the action of gases occluded in the .
metals ; 4th .
But that they are produced purely and solely by the heat , and that heat disappears in producing them ; 5th .
That they are immediate or direct effects of the heat , and that aqueous conducting liquids , therefore , possess true thermo-electric properties : 6th .
That the current is a result of a difference of thermic action at the surfaces of the two pieces of metal : 7th .
That it is a product of a suitable molecular structure of the liquid , a change of such structure resulting from alteration of temperature , and a direct conversion of heat into electricity ; and 8th .
That the circumstance which is most influential in

