VIII .
A Meteorological Journal for the Year 1782 , kept at Minehead , in Somersetshire .
By Mr. John Atkins ; communicated by Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. P. R. S. Read January 15 , 1784 .
SIR , THE numberless philosophical discoveries and meteorological journals which I find have been addressed to you , as being a gentleman whose great abilities have raised you to the highest pitch of grandeur in the philosophical world , and which , I find , have been treated with the greatest candour and respect , and published under your direction for the improvement of scientific knowledge , make me presume ( though an unknown , and even unheard of , individual ) to direct this journal to you , not boasting , but rather doubting , of its being worthy of your reception ; but my having found so great a difference between the last year and several preceding years , in the variations of the atmosphere , both barometrical and thermometrical , induced me to communicate it to other observers through your approbation .
Minehead , March 27 , 1783 .
I am , &amp;c. THE instruments are kept at a house about thirty feet above high water in the Bristol Channel .
The barometer is made after DE LUC'S method ; and to observe the most minute alteration I have divided it into the one-sixteenth of a line , or 192 parts in an inch .
The thermometer is a mercurial one , graduated according to FAHRENHEIT'S scale , as being the most universal , though , I think , a partial one , and placed in the open air in a northern aspect .
An hygrometer I have likewise kept in the open air ; but being an instrument that does not admit of , as I ever heard of , a certain basis , whereon to fix the fundamental point between the greatest moisture and greatest drought , and therefore of little use to distant observers , I have omitted these observations .
For the ease of correspondent observers , I have drawn two columns of the barometer ; the first divided into 192d parts of an inch ; the second into 100th parts .
The figures in the column of winds denote its strength from 0 to 90 degrees of a quadrant .
And the most prevailing winds are from north to west , being generally in those directions twothirds of the year , occasioned , as I imagine , by the indraught of the Bristol Channel .
The barometer this year has taken a greater range than ever I found these several years , being 2.44 inches .
The thermometer likewise from 21~ to 81~ ; and the three rainy months of October , November , and December , there fell very little more rain than fell in the month of August alone , which is very uncommon in this part of the kingdom .
On the ninth of February an odd phenomenon appeared to me about 10 miles from hence , on my journey to Tiverton .
I observed an halo , exactly similar to that of the sun , the center of the arch about 15~ high , and both ends terminated in a field of snow ; but as rainbows are seen only with the sun behind one 's back , this , on the contrary , was between me and the sun .

