The Improved Electric Micrometer .
By P. E. Shaw , B.A. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Professor J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received March 30 , _ Read April 13 , 1905 .
) I. Introduction.\#151 ; The electric micrometer was first used for the measurement of the amplitude of a telephone diaphragm * It was exhibited at the Royal Society Soiree in May , 1900 .
A succession of papers have followed in which the same principle has been applied to other measurements . !
The apparatus used in these last papers is in every way an advance on the first one .
It is described below for the first time .
The work done since 1900 has established the reliability of this method of measurement , and seems to show that the limit to its practical sensitiveness ( a unit of 4 x 10-8 cm .
) has been attained .
It may be well , therefore , now to state in detail the form , peculiarities , and limitations of the apparatus .
II .
The Instrument.\#151 ; In the drawings fig. 1 is a side elevation of the micrometer and electric circuit ; fig. 2 is an elevation , enlarged , showing details of the levers ; fig. 3 is a cross-section on the line A'A ' , fig. 2 ; fig. 4 on the line B'B ' , fig. 2 ; fig. 5 is a section showing the contacts P , Q ; fig. 6 is a diagrammatic view of the instrument and suspension .
BS Mj F " J \gt ; L R / !
j\#151 ; C ' -1 / i T Tel. J/ jj !
\#151 ; * S\#151 ; ?
/ -\ ~ ~ ^ ~ ~ ^ sS ?
~ ~ ~ n .
A A ... , 4or"'i 1 OJG . .
/ ^ 1 \#166 ; Fig. 1 .
In fig. 1 are shown six levers of steel A fitted to turn on fulcra B , the long arm of one lever being actuated by the short arm of the next through * Shaw , 'Pliys .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 17 , and 'Phil .
Mag. , ' December , 1900 .
t Shaw , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1901 ; Shaw and Laws , 'Electrician , ' 1901 and 1902 ; Shaw , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 ; Shaw , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 .
The Improved Electric Micrometer .
35 ] pointed pins C. The fulcra blocks D , which are of hardened steel and have a true surface , are attached to the massive girder I of cast iron , and are surrounded by a metal casing E ( fig. 2 ) which forms the sides of a bath for oil .
The fulcra are 1 inch wide , and rest only on two small knife-edges which are at the sides of the fulcra as shown in fig. 4 .
The knife edges are of hardened steel .
I IK Fig. 2 .
The short end of the levers are fitted with a hardened steel plate G ( fig. 3 ) , and with a metal casing H which forms the sides of a bath for oil .
The pin C in the long end of the levers ( except the first ) is fixed by a nut , and the ends of the levers are provided with three holes for these pins so that leverage can be varied ( see fig. 2 ) .
Rl Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
The levers are also fitted with pointers J , and the girder has index plates K by which the position of each lever can be fixed , or a template can be used between J and D for the same purpose .
352 Dr. P. E. Shaw .
[ Mar. 30 , Each lever is also provided with a weight L which gives firm pressure of the levers on the blocks and on one another .
The end of the long arm of the first lever is in contact by a polished agate plate with the point of the micrometer screw M , which has 20 threads to 1 cm .
, and whose nut is attached to the girder .
The usual free nut and spring is used to reduce back-lash .
The lower end of the screw has a divided wheel N " and a pulley 0 .
The angular movement of the screw can be ascertained by watching in the telescope ( fig. 6 ) the reflection in the mirror m , the under graduated face of N. The end of the last lever is fitted with a spherically-ended pin P ( fig. 5 ) of iridio-platinum . ?
CB Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
The fixed measuring surface Q is carried by a spindle E/ from a plate F above , the position of which can be adjusted in the frame F by the adjusting tripod screws shown at the side , and by the binding screw BS at the top .
The whole frame and its attached parts are firmly fixed to the girder .
The instrument is enclosed in a felt-covered box , and is suspended by rubber springs from the top of a massive frame S , which itself rests on a pile of heavy concrete slabs T ( 2 feet square ) with rubber cushions U at intervals .
The tension of the springs may be adjusted by weights W , and 1905 .
] The Improved Electric Micrometer .
there are rails CB to prevent these weights falling on the micrometer in case of breakage .
The screw is actuated by an elastic cord driven by a pulley V which is on an independent table .
To reduce the movement set up by the working of the pulley cord , the underside of the box has a plunger W ' working in a dash-pot of castor oil .
The vertical movement of the screw actuates the system of levers , the extent of the movement being reduced by each lever in succession , and when the point P touches the fixed surface Q , an electric circuit is completed , and the telephone tel .
sounds , as it also does when P and Q separate again .
The circuit shown includes a cell , potential divider R , high resistances telephone , and a condenser C ' .
As regards dimensions , the height of fig. 6 is 10 feet and the parts are in proportion .
The lever system is 3 feet long .
Each lever is 6 inches long and is made of j-inch square bar .
The girder is 4 inches deep , and its material is 4-inch thick .
The frame F ' is small and massive for the sake of rigidity .
III .
Setting and Using.\#151 ; Suppose , as an example , we wish to find the magnetic expansion of the rod R ' ( fig. 1 ) , i.e. , the amount it changes in length when a known current is sent through a solenoid of which R ' is core .
Remove the plate Q , by unscrewing , and also the last lever which carries P. Polish P and Q with dry rouge on wash leather and finally with clean wash leather .
Replace Q and the lever .
We have now to make P and Q come just into contact ; this is a very delicate adjustment .
Put the telephone tel .
to the ear .
Adjust the three tripod screws and the binding screw BS on the top of the frame F ' ; the former work up and produce level while the latter works down .
The whole system can be obtained rigid with P and Q just in contact , this contact being shown by the sounding of the telephone .
So far we have obtained only rough contact .
To bring P and Q into bare contact , proceed to the pulley V ( fig. 6 ) and wind the pulley cord , turning the screw M until the telephone sounds again .
This gives the exact position of contact .
There will be a steady " creep " of the contact position for a considerable time after the covers have been put in place .
Accurate work can be done when temperature equilibrium is established in , say , 15 minutes .
The wheel N is watched and readings on it corresponding to the contact " make " and " break " are noted .
Change the magnetic field on R ' by known amounts and note the corresponding changes in the contact positions of P , Q. Dr. P. E. Shaw .
[ Mar. 30 , If the joint leverage come to 1000/ 1 and the screw pitch be 1/ 20 cm .
, with 500 graduations on N the unit of the instrument will be 10"7 cm .
IV .
Calibration.\#151 ; This can be done by measuring all the lever arms and multiplying the joint leverage into the unit of the micrometer screw .
A better method is to use optical interference .
Eemove the plate Q and spindle E ' and mount a glass plate , with a worked surface face downwards , in place of them .
On the top of pin P put a convex lens of small curvature .
Newton 's rings can be produced in the usual way between plate and upper lens surfaces .
Use sodium light and watch the rings with a microscope .
On working the screw M up or down the pin P rises and the rings grow from or contract into the centre , respectively .
Take readings of the screw head for every ten rings passing one point and calculate at once the unit .
The following is a sample table:\#151 ; Units on wheel N corresponding to 10 rings .
Up .
Up .
Down .
Down .
5900 5930 5950 5850 5920 6000 5900 5900 5920 5950 5870 5880 5940 5900 5940 5900 5900 5850 5900 6000 5880 \#151 ; 5850 \#151 ; Mean ... 5920 Mean ... 5890 Thus 590 units correspond to 1 ring A/ 2 .
" 1 unit " = 4-9 x 10-8 cm .
The wave-length is a standard unit of the order ya and is 1200 times the unit of the instrument .
It would be an advantage to have a standard unit of the order of the instrument , i.e. , fi/ x. The greatest and least readings in the above table differ by about 2 per cent. This large error is partly due to inaccuracy in reading the edge of the rings ( this might produce 1 per cent , error on 10 rings ) , but is also due to the fact that the cover is not on the contacts during this calibration , so that thermal expansions occur in them .
The cover could be on during calibration , but in the present case it was not considered necessary .
1905 .
] The Improved Electric Micrometer .
V. Sources of Error : Precautions .
Movements are Normal to Contact Surfaces.\#151 ; The levers are bent in order that ( a ) the turning edges of the fulcra , the contact point of each lever on the next , ( c ) the contact of screw on the first lever , and ( d ) the contact P and Q where measurements are made , should all lie in one horizontal plane .
Thus when the actuating screw works up or down by a small amount there is normal displacement at every contact surface and no scraping of one surface on another .
If only these small movements are made we can thus avoid end strain among the levers or actual sliding , which would cause sudden alteration in leverage and jerky working .
Strains in Levers.\#151 ; The levers conspire to produce minifieation , each long arm rests on the next short arm and is moved by it .
There is no large stress anywhere in the system .
The actual pressures ( a ) between fulcra and blocks , and ( b ) between lever and lever have alternate maxima and minima from end to end of the system , the greatest differences being at the left end of the system .
But the strains are all due to constant gravitation stresses .
There seems no reason to expect that in such a set of well-oiled contacts , irregular strains should arise from the mere working of the system , when measurements are made .
In actual trial the micrometer is found to work so uniformly that one feels confident that the strains are exceedingly regular , and that each link in the system used does add accuracy as well as sensitiveness .
fulcra / \/ \/ levers '\/ /s\/ \ Longitudinal Displacements.\#151 ; The levers are allowed three degrees of freedom , a rotation on vertical axis , a translation across the girder and a translation along the girder .
In each case the play is very small .
It is very desirable that the levers should have freedom without using it .
It is important to have the levers equispaced , for if the small arms have the same length in each lever , a small longitudinal displacement of any lever ( except the first and last ) will not seriously change the total leverage .
Thus suppose the second lever , fig. 1 , be moved a small distance to the right , the first lever will gain and the second will lose leverage in the same ratio .
But if the movement be continued , the short arms of the two levers being now unequal , the first lever gains leverage in greater ratio than the second loses it .
The first and last levers are exceptions .
If the first lever move by a small amount to the right it alone loses leverage .
If the last lever move to the right , the fifth lever alone gains leverage .
Hence the first and last levers should not be allowed to move longitudinally during an experiment .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; A. 2 C Dr. P. E. Shaw .
[ Mar. 30 , If work of high accuracy is being done , it is therefore necessary to frequently set the levers in those exact places for which the instrument has been calibrated .
The two other degrees of freedom would produce errors of a smaller order .
The Oil Baths.\#151 ; These ( 1 ) lessen jerk in case the levers slide , and ( 2 ) keep the contacts free from dust and from corrosion by contact with the air .
It will be seen that of the 13 contact places in the lever system only two are exposed to the air , the first and the last .
If particles of dust were allowed to fall on the contact surfaces , they might work into the contact , producing serious error , especially at the left end of the instrument .
Dust falls on the 011 surface and floats there , the contacts below being thus kept clean .
Vibrations.\#151 ; Tremors from the ground cannot easily reach the micrometer .
There are two possible ways by which they can do so , ( 1 ) ascend through the massive cement slabs interleaved with rubber , pass to the top of frame S , then descend the rubber cords S ' which are loaded with 28-lb .
bars at intervals , or ( 2 ) pass along the rubber pulley cord ; but this is too light and lax to transmit such tremors as will affect the suspended body , weighing about 80 lbs. Measurable tremors only reach the micrometer rarely .
The above insulating arrangements act so well that ordinary measurements more than 5 / jl/ ju can be done throughout the day .
Finer work is done at night after 12 o'clock .
It may be mentioned that the instrument is set up in a vault , whose floor is 12 feet below ground level , and that a mechanical workshop is immediately overhead .
Thermal Expansions.\#151 ; Expansion in the direction of the length of the apparatus can be ignored , whereas expansion perpendicular to the levers would introduce large error .
The following parts , therefore , should , if possible , be made of invar\#151 ; cage F ' , spindle E ' , pin P , lever pins C , fulcra B. But these vertical expansions become of decreasing importance as we pass from the cage F ' to the right of the apparatus , so that thermal expansion in the screw and last lever pin can be ignored .
Suppose the spindle E ' is of brass ( which must be used in magnetic work ) and is 20 cm .
long ; if its temperature change 1 ' , the movement is 4 x 10-4 cm .
, i.e. , 10,000 units on the instrument , whereas if the first lever pin is of brass , and 1 cm .
long , a change in temperature of 1 ' would be 5 x 10-9 cm .
, i.e. , 1/ 10 unit .
When a new set of measurements is about to be taken , it is always necessary to uncover the micrometer and clean the contacts P , Q. On putting the cover on again , thermal expansion will be seen in " creeping " of the contact .
For the most delicate work , 1 hour and sometimes more is required for temperature equilibrium to be established .
1905 .
] The Improved Electric Micrometer .
357 Magnetic Strains.\#151 ; When magnetic work is in hand , e.g. , magnetic expansion , * the girder and cage F ' and levers , and all bolts and nuts must be of non-magnetic substance .
The Contact Surfaces.\#151 ; Steel , iron , platinum , copper , carbon , and other surfaces have been tried for P and Q , but iridio-platinum seems best of all , and dry rouge on washleather is used for polishing .
High polish is essential for sharp readings .
Again , the ordinary use of the surfaces , involving frequent make and break , damages them , say , in one hour of continuous use , and the readings become uncertain .
It has frequently been urged by critics that as the surfaces P , Q approach one another , having a potential difference of , say , 1 volt , there will be a spark between them before the surfaces touch , and that this sparking will be irregular and a source of uncertainty in the finest measurements .
This sparking probably always occurs , but it is not irregular within experimental limits , as is shown by the fact that the readings of the instrument are consistent .
As regards the length of this spark-gap , the present writer has made investigations for low voltages , from 100 volts to 0'2 volt , f and has found that for P.D. 1 volt the gap is 10 gg , and that the relation between gap and P.D. is linear .
Assuming a combination of the linear relation , and taking the P.D. used in the micrometer work , 1/ 100 volt , the gap would be about 1/ 10 gg .
So that , whether regular to 20 per cent , or not , the sparking would introduce no measureable error .
VI .
Applicability.\#151 ; The method has been shown to be applicable to various measurements:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Telephone diaphragm movements and hence the amplitude of the least audible sound . !
( 2 ) The expansion of iron , steel , nickel , and of non-magnetic bodies when subject to changes of magnetic field .
S 13 ) As a coherer .
The two contact points can be brought to molecular distance apart without touching ; they then constitute a very sensitive and adjustable coherer.|| ( 4 ) The distance of discharge of two surfaces maintained at a different electric potential.1T There are other obvious applications , e.g. , ( a ) thermal expansibility ; * See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 .
+ See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 .
J See ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1900 , and ensuing paper .
S See 'Electrician , ' 1901 and 1902 , and 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 .
|| See 'Phil .
Mag. , ' March , 1901 .
IT See 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 .
Dr. P. E. Shaw .
[ Mar. 30 , ( 5 ) the Newtonian constant , by the measurement of the movements of a pendulum from the vertical under the attraction of a large mass .
VII .
Comparison with other Micrometers.\#151 ; Other instruments capable of fine measurements are:\#151 ; ( a ) The Optical Lever , on the Gauss-Poggendorff principle .
The movement to be measured causes rotation of a mirror , so that a spot of light from it traverses a scale .
In some cases levers are used to magnify the effect * The form used by Nagaokaf is very sensitive : there is no lever , but the movement of the spot is examined by a microscope .
The smallest recorded reading in this way is 2\3 x 10-7 cm .
( b ) Interference Methods.\#151 ; The Fizean method has been developed by Abbe , Pulfrich , and Tutton .
The distance between the interfering surfaces is small .
The interferimeter , where the interfering surfaces are far apart , has been developed by Michelson into an accurate and adaptable instrument .
The unit in these methods is about 10 x 10-6 cm .
The objection to these methods is that the interference bands are so far from sharp that it is difficult to locate accurately the centres of two consecutive bands , and to divide the intervening space into any number of equal parts .
J ( c ) The Microscope.\#151 ; This is still less sensitive than interference methods , the smallest possible reading being 2 x 10"5 cm .
To enumerate the qualities desirable in a micrometer:\#151 ; ( i ) Practical Sensitiveness ( i.e. , the smallest distance which can be accurately read)\#151 ; The electric micrometer ... 4 x 10~8 cm .
optical lever ... ... ... 2-3 x 10~7 " interference methods ... lx 10-6 " microscope ... ... ... ... 2 x 10~5 " ( ii ) Range.\#151 ; The electric micrometer can read quite 10,000 units =4 x 10~4 cm .
In the other micrometers there is a field of view which determines the range .
Or , if a micrometer screw be used to restore zero reading , the practical sensitiveness is that of a working screw , which is not great .
( iii ) Quickness of Action.\#151 ; The optical lever , interference methods , and * See Shelford Bidwell , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1888 .
t See'Phil .
Mag. , '1894 .
1 Eecently , a modification of Michelson 's method has been made by C. W. Chamberlain ( see Kinsley , * Phil. Mag. , ' May , 1905 ) , by which the sensitiveness is greatly increased , and movements of 3X 10~r cm .
have been measured .
1905 .
] The Improved Electric Micrometer , microscope , are quick within the range of the field of view , outside that range they are at least as slow as\#151 ; The electric micrometer , in which time must be taken for the movable contact to bridge over the gap to the fixed contact .
( iv ) Calibration.\#151 ; The interference methods here have an advantage over other micrometers in that no calibration is necessary , the wave-length being a standard known length .
The electric micrometer and the microscope can be readily calibrated , the former by interference bands , and the latter by a line standard bar .
The optical lever cannot be calibrated with accuracy ; any method takes account directly or indirectly of the effective length of the lever .
This length is small and diffcult to measure with precision .
( v ) Freedom.\#151 ; In the interference methods and microscope the measuring apparatus does not press on the moving body , so this need not be rigid .
This is an advantage .
In the optical lever and electric micrometer , actual mechanical pressure , though not necessarily large , is essential .
If perfect freedom of the moving body is required , these methods are inadmissible .
( vi ) Compactness.\#151 ; The optical lever is the most simple and compact micrometer , and the electric micrometer is the least so , in the form described above .
But the latter instrument could , if desirable , be reduced to quite a small size , without detriment to its usefulness .
I am glad to acknowledge my indebtedness to the Royal Society for two grants in aid of these researches , and to Professor W. H. Heaton for his unfailing encouragement and general furtherance of the work .

