Answers To some of the Queries , which were recommended by Sir R. Moray to Sir Phil. Vernatti , President in Java Major , were left un-answered of those that are found in the History of the R. Society , p. 158 , &amp;c. 1 .
THe greatest length of time , that Pearl-divers in these parts can hold under water , is about a quarter of an ho r ; and by no other means but Custom : For Pearl-diving lasteth not above Six weeks , and the Divers stay a great while longer under water at the end of the Se son , then at the beginning .
Here at Batavia is an expert Diver , who draws wages for nothing else but for diving for Anchors , Guns , &amp;c. lost in the Road .
I have seen him several times go down , holding my breath as long as I could , but he stayed ten times as long under water , as I could hold my breath .
But he will not go down unless you give him a whole Pint of Strong-water .
2 .
The Oil drawn out of the Roots of Cinamon-trees , and resembling Camphir , is thence extracted , the Roots being dried , bruised , and steeped in water , and then drawn over by an Alembec .
3 , The Lignum Aloes is the part of a Living Tree , but commonly found , when it is withered .
The Tree it self is of a white soft wood , giving a milky juice , which is so venomous withal , that if in cutting the Tree , any of the milk light in your eye , you grow blind ; if on any other part of the Body , it becomes scabby , and noysomly sore .
The Lignum Aloes , or Calambac , is found within the White-wood , but not every where .
When the Tree decays , the White-wood soon withers , and grows worm-eaten ; and the Milk so dries up , that you may easily rub it asunder with your hand .
The best is found in the midst of the Tree nourished by the Heart-root , which goes straight down into the ground .
4 .
The Wood , stinking like humane Excrement , grows thus naturally in the Isles of Solar and Timor , and thereabouts .
5 .
There are indeed such Serpents in these parts , which have an Head on each end of their Body , called Capra capella .
They are esteemed Sacred by these people , and fortunate to those in whose house and lands they are found ; but pernicious to whomsoever doth them harm .
I would have sent one , but could get no man that would kill them .
These Answers were accompanied with divers Curiosities , sent over by the same Generous Person for the Repository of the R.Society ; among which were the Pictures of the true Musk-Dear , and of divers Aromatical , and other East-Indian Vegetables , and particularly of the Nutmeg called Thieving ; because that being put among a whole room full of good Nutmegs , though it be but one it will corrupt them all : Besides a very fragrant Oil , drawn out of the bark of a Tree ( called Lawang : ) and some of the Blood of a Fish , called Bedille , esteemed very excellent against Fluxes of Blood .
Together with which should have come a sort of Beans growing on the Coast of Coromandel , having this quality , that the inside of an Earthen Vessel being rubbed therewith , the most muddy water powred into it , will precipitate all its muddiness ; but this was lost by the way .
'Mean time care is taken to procure some others of that kind , to make the Experiment here .

