The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Proofs of a gradual Rising of the Land in certain parts of Sweden .
" By Charles Lyell , Esq. , F.R.S. , was resumed , but not concluded .
January 8 , 1835 .
The REV .
PHILIP JENNINGS , D.D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
On the Proofs of a gradual Rising of the Land in certain parts of Sweden .
By Charles Lyell , Esq. , F.R.S. An opinion has long been entertained that the waters of the Baltic and even of the whole Northern Ocean , have been gradually sinking ; and the purport of the present paper is , to communicate the observations which the author made during the summer of 1834 , in refer ?
ence to this curious question .
In his way to Sweden he examined the eastern shores of the Danish islands of Moen and Seeland , but neither there , nor in Scania , could he discover any indications of a recent rising of the land ; nor was there any tradition giving support to such a supposition .
The first place he visited , where any elevation of land had been suspected , was Calmar ; the fortress of which , built in the year 1030 , appeared , on examination , to have had its foundations originally laid below the level of the sea , although they are now situated nearly two feet above the present level of the Baltic .
Part of the moat on one side of the castle , which is believed to have been formerly filled with water from the sea , is now dry , and the bottom covered with green turf .
At Stockholm , the author found many striking geological proofs of a change in the relative level of the sea and land , since the period when the Baltic has been inhabited by the 2a Testacea which it now contains .
A great abundance of shells of the same species were met with in strata of loam , &amp; c , at various heights , from 30 to 90 feet above the level of the Baltic .
They consist chiefly of the Cardium edule , the Tellina baltica , and the Littorina littoreus ?
to ?
gether with portions of the Mytilus edulis , generally decomposed , but often recognisable by the violet colour which they have imparted to the whole mass .
In cutting a canal from Sodertelje to lake Maelar , several buried vessels were found ; some apparently of great antiquity , from the circumstance of their containing no iron , the planks being fixed together by wooden nails .
In another place , an anchor was dug up ; as also , in one spot , some iron nails .
The remains of a square wooden house were also discovered at the bottom of an excavation made for the canal , nearly at a level with the sea , but at a depth of 64 feet from the surface of the ground .
An irregular ring of stones was found on the floor of this hut , having the appearance of a rude fire-place , and within it was a heap of charcoal and charred wood .
On the outside of the ring was a heap of unburnt flr wood , broken up as for fuel ? .
the dried needles of the fir and the bark of the branches being still preserved .
The whole building was enveloped in fine sand .
The author next notices several circumstances regarding buildings in Stockholm and its suburbs , from which he infers that the elevation of the land , during the last three or four centuries , has not exceeded certain narrow limits .
At Upsala he met with the usual indications of a former elevation of the sea , from the presence of littoral shells of the same species as those now found in the Baltic .
Certain plants , as the Glauca maritima and the Triglochin maritimus , which naturally inhabit salt marshes bordering the sea , flourish in a meadow tc the south of Upsala ; a fact which corroborates the supposition that the whole of the lake Maelar and the adjoining low lands have , at no very remote period of history , been covered with salt water .
The author examined minutely certain marks which had at different times been cut artificially in perpendicular rocks , washed by the sea , in various places ; particularly near Oregrund , Gefle , Lofgrund , and Edskosund ; all of which concur in showing that the level of the sea , when compared with the land , has very sensibly sunk .
A similar conclusion was deduced from the observations made by the author on the opposite , or western coast of Sweden , between Uddevalla and Gotenburg ; and especially from the indications presented by the islands of Orust , Gulholmeu , and Marstrand .
Throughout the paper a circumstantial account is given of the geological structure and physical features of those parts of the country which the author visited : and the general result of the comparison he draws of both the eastern and western coasts and their islands , with the interior , is highly favourable to the hypothesis of a gradual rise of the land ; every tract having , in its turn , been first a shoal in the sea , and then , for a time , a portion of the shore .
This opinion is strongly corroborated by the testimony of the inhabitants , ( pilots and fishermen more especially , ) of the increased extension of the land , and the apparent sinking of the sea .
The rate of elevation , however , appears to be very different in different places : no trace of such a change is found in the South of Scania .
In those places where its amount was ascertained with greatest accuracy , it appears to be about three feet in a century .
The phenomenon in question having ex ?
cited increasing interest among the philosophers of Sweden , and having especially excited the attention of Professor Berzelius , it is to be hoped that the means of accurate determination will be greatly multiplied .

