XXII .
" On some new Ethyl-compounds containing the Alkalimetals .
" By J. A. WANKLYN , Esq. Communicated by EDWARD FRANKLAND , Ph. D. Received June 10 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The very remarkable composition and properties of that class of substances comprehending kakodyl and zinc-ethyl , have justly attached no ordinary degree of interest to the so-called organo-metallic compounds .
Influenced by that interest , I was led to inquire whether the series might not include members into whose composition the alkali-metals entered .
It was a question whether combination between so powerfully electro-positive a body as potassium or sodium on the one hand , and a hydrocarbon radical on the other , did not involve impossible conditions .
It seemed that the answer to this query would not be valueless as a contribution to the store of facts out of which we may hope some day to evoke the conditions of chemical combination .
My researches in this direction have already enabled me to produce combinations of ethyl with potassium and sodium ; and I have little doubt that I shall be able to produce similar compounds containing lithium , barium , strontium , calcium , and magnesium .
Combinations containing methyl in place of ethyl will also be sought .
The present paper will be devoted chiefly to the ethyl-compound of sodium .
Sodium-ethyl .
Experiments made with a view to the formation of this body by reactions similar to that by which zinc-ethyl is produced , yielded negative results ; but some months ago I made the observation that potassium and sodium decomposed zinc-ethyl , and I found the action to consist in the replacement of a portion of the zinc by the metal employed .
Sodium-ethyl was prepared as follows:-A tube of soft glass was closed at one end and filled with coal-gas .
In it was then placed a single clean piece of sodium ; its open extremity was then closed with the finger , and whilst still filled with coal-gas , the tube was contracted about the middle , drawn out and bent twice at right angles ; pure zinc-ethyl , in quantity about ten times the weight of the sodium , was next introduced , and the tube hermetically sealed .
So prepared , the apparatus was afterwards placed in cold water , and left therein for several days , being cautiously shaken up at intervals .
During this time the following changes were noted in the contents of the tube .
The sodium became coated with zinc , and gradually disappeared , whilst the total volume of the solid and liquid contents diminished considerably .
The liquid became also viscid , and sometimes separated into two portions non-miscible with each other , becoming , however , homogeneous as the operation advanced .
There was no evolution of gas .
After the lapse of some days the apparatus was found to contain metallic zinc and a clear colourless liquid .
The former was weighed and found to correspond to the sodium dissolved , one equivalent of zinc being precipitated for each equivalent of sodium dissolved .
The clear liquid was made the subject of special examination .
It consisted of iinc-ethyl holding in solution a crystalline compound containing sodium , zinc , and ethyl .
It was inflammable to the last degree , burning explosively , on exposure to the air , with a yellow flame , and leaving a very alkaline residue .
Owing to its extreme tendency to become oxidized , its manlipulation presented great difficulties .
It was requisite to decant it into bulbs filled with dry hydrogen or coal-gas ; and since heat produced partial decomposition , the bulbs had to be double , so that the heated bulb might not receive the liquid .
The clear liquid deposited large quantities of beautiful crystals when cooled to zero ; and when gently warmed in a stream of dry hydrogen gas , so long as zinc-ethyl came off it yielded also a mass of crystals .
Some crystals were prepared in the latter manner ; they fused at about 27 ?
C. , but once fused they remained fluid at several degrees below that point .
Numerous analytical determinations prove that these crystals contain two equivalents of zinc for every equivalent of sodium , and that their formula is Na 2 JZn C4 , J l2 C 'iThe reaction by which they are produced may be thus expressed : Zn Na a_ Zn 2(Na f Zn 6C J , } +Na } Zn }+ HCHJ }'{ CH For the body Na C4 115 I propose the name sodium-ethyl , and for the crystals that of double compound of sodium-ethyl with sinc-ethyl .
Many attempts were made to obtain sodium-ethyl free from zincethyl , but without success .
By distillation it was found to be equally impossible either to distil off Na from the crystals , or to distil off all so as to leave pure C Na behind .
When the crystals are moderately heated in a bulb , a singular phenomenon occurs .
Gas is evolved , and there remains behind metallic sodium , also metallic zinc , but no carbonaceous residue .
This reduction of a sodium-compound by heat alone is an anomaly in chemistry .
When the crystals are heated in the water-bath with potassium , a sudden evolution of gas occurs , and there results metallic zinc , with a liquid alloy of potassium and sodium-a result likewise peculiar .
When the crystals are heated in the water-bath with excess of sodium , evolution of gas likewise takes place .
From these experiments it would seem that the conjoined zincethyl is necessary to the existence of sodium-ethyl ; or more precisely , that some adjunct of a less positive nature than sodium-ethyl is requisite to make the existence of the latter possible .
Passing on to the other reactions of the crystals 2(ZnC4EH ) } NaC4H J ' With water there is given pure hydride of ethyl , and hydrated oxides of zinc and sodium .
The reaction takes place with great evolution of heat .
With carbonic acid there is given propionate of soda , which unites with zinc-ethyl forming a double compound , decomposed on the addition of water .
To the account of this reaction , published elsewhere , I have to add that it takes place without evolution of ethyl or any other gas-a result which further confirms the formula of sodium-ethyl adopted in this paper .
With carbonic oxide there is also a reaction , which is in course of examination .
Cyanogen gas is instantly absorbed , with the formation of a brown solution .
With ether there seems to be no reaction .
For the rest , with oxygen , iodine , &amp;c. , I should predict reactions quite analogous to those of zinc-ethyl , but have not specially examined the point .
Potassium-ethyl .
Zinc-ethyl and potassium react still more readily than the former body and sodium .
So far as at present ascertained , the cases greatly resemble one another .
Just as with sodium , I obtain crystals readily soluble in zinc-ethyl , which contain in this case abundance of potassium .
Seeing that the kind of reaction brought under notice in this paper is apparently unique , it is necessary to offer a few observations upon it .
2 Zn +1 , Na 2 Na Zn C2.CH5 Na -.C4H5 -Zn The reaction here formulated may be regarded as an electrolytic decomposition-as an ordinary case of precipitation of one metal by a more electro-positive metal .
Here ethyl is the electro-negative , and zinc the electro-positive member : sodium is more electro-positive than zinc , and accordingly sodium displaces zinc .
Following out the hypothesis-where the organo-metallic body contains a metal less electro-positive than the hydrocarbon radical , I should expect that the hydrocarbon radical would be eliminated by the action of sodium .
Kakodyl , for instance , should give methyl and arsenide of sodium .
C2 3 As + Na Na As + C2 C2113 Na -iTNa C2113 A case in point is afforded by the reaction of the alkali-metals with ammonia .
Hj KH 2 .
H}+K }_2 .
} + Of the same kind is the reaction of zinc-ethyl upon ammonia* .
IH N+ -1 HN+I To develope the hypothesis still further : just as the positive side admits of displacement by a more electro-positive radical , so should the negative side admit of displacement by a more electro-negative body .
The ordinary reactions of zinc-ethyl may be looked upon as illustrating this proposition , and can be written so as to exhibit a double displacement .
+ +++ Zn , C4H +I I= ZnI + C4HI + ++ + also ZnCO4H + 00 = ZnO + C4H50 Inspection will show in all these cases , that an electro-positive radical displaces a less electro-positive radical ; and an electro-negative radical displaces a less electro-negative one .
In accordance with the theory would be the displacement in sodium-ethyl of the ethyl by mercury , or by copper , &amp;c. , platinum , &amp;c. Na , C , H Cn NaCn CAI5 Na CH + Cn=NaCn CHIH Also a like displacement by arsenic or by nitrogen would be according to theory .
Pushing the hypothesis to its furthest limits , I should say that sodium-ethyl is only in equilibrium with bodies whose respective electrical sides lie either both of them within , or both of them without the space lying between the electro-positive sodium and the electro-negative ethyl .

