XII .
On the Solar Eclipse which is said to have been predicted by THALES .
By Francis Bailey , Esq. Communicated by H. Davy , Esq. Sec. R. S. Read March 14 , i8ir .
1 HERE is probably no fact in ancient history that has given rise to so many discussions , and to such a variety of opinions , as the solar eclipse , which ( according to HERODOTUS ) is said to have been predicted by THALES ; and which , owir:g to a very singular coincidence , put an end to a furious war that raged between Cyaxares king of Media , and Alyattes king of Lydia .
According to the account given by that celebrated historian , " the contest had continued during five years , with alternate s advantages to each party : in the sixth , there was a sort of nocturnal combat .
For , after an equal fortune on both sides , " and whilst the two armies were engaging , the day suddenly became night .
THALEs , the Milesian , had predicted this phe"nomenon to the Ionians : and had ascertained the time of " the year in which it would happen .
The Lydians and the " Medes , seeing that the night had thus taken the place of the day , desisted from the combat ; and both parties became " desirous of making peace .
" v ro"x Qa\.X iEv o ; MSo6 rou Auaovos rg ; c'rov , roxhoX ; Z Sc6A ol A 'u M'o7 ov ; ' ev ag c &amp; O VUTro04sr/ y 71M 60 ; 47OI0aYTO0 .
^MaGE^eOUTl a6 t ; r &lt; pi E1 T0a n ; rol ; VXozY/ g9 TO EYti S , v:OX^ y ?
v/ YO ?
}^,.G'Y^wm ?
;Xe rS r6 7115 5Yg Y7 ?
f , T9 ' w"v " " !
;vag M yE3 .
t ETU XaY ay 7 tEg St / O MI-AVT'io ' ToJrt4 IT oYQo TTsOws crr6a , 'vuov -reQ E0yEVoq SYvIaUV7V rouOv , I/ s !
/ ' / I &amp; vmos oKvM ; AtuMO ; ' Tyi Qv , ~t UaO TE S ; O ; wmvro , 6z ; r !
e ?
ov VVtuX7 &amp; V74 Vts ?
v YBEVV 3 EtC W T7 XW67UTOT .
XZI IZMAXOY 7f ?
a'UIcav KX ai STEg01 E ; gv wiYMUTOcIT yeY roOi .
HERODOTUS , Lib. I. ? .
74 .
The fact is here very clearly ( and probably very justly ) related : but , unfortunately , there is nothing , either in the statement itself , or in the contiguous passages of the work , that will enable us to determine , with any degree of accuracy , the exact time wherein this singular phenomenon took place .
And this is the more to be regretted , because the dates of several other events , recorded by the same historian , might be more easily ascertained , if the era of this eclipse were correctly knovwn ; but which are now involved in much obscurity .
Deprived of all information from the body of the work itself , chronologists have called in the aid of astronomy to assist them in fixing the date of this remarkable appearance .
For it must be evident , that if we could ascertain , by this mean , that in any solar eclipse , which happened about that period , the centre of the moon 's shadow passed over the country bordering on the two contesting empires where the battle was probably fought ( for HERODOTUS has likewise omitted to mention the place where the action occurred ) , we may reasonably and very fairly conclude , that that eclipse only was the one alluded to by the historian .
In this attempt , however , a great diversity of opinion has arisen ; the origin of which it may be useful and entertaining here to trace .
Pt in order to render my subsequent remarks ihe more i:'l:igible , I shall previously state the various dates thai b 221 been assigned to this event by the several authors above alluded to .
PLINY places this eclipse in the fourth year of the fortyeighth Olympiad ; which answers to the year 585 B. C. ( Hist. Not .
lib. 2 , cap. 12 ) .
A similar opinion has been advanced , among the ancients , by CICERo ( De Divinat .
lib. 1 , ? .
49 ) , and probably by EUDEMUS ( Clement .
Alex .
Strom .
lib. 1 , p. 354 ) .
And , among the moderns , by NEWTON ( Chron. of Anc .
King .
amended ) , RICcIOLI ( Chron. Refor .
Vol. I. p. 228 ) , DESVIGNOLES ( Chronol .
lib. 4 , chap .
5 , ? .
7 , &amp;c. ) , and1 BROSSES ( [ Mem. de I'Acad .
des Beles Lettres , Tomre oi , Mrm .
p. 33 .
) SCALIGER , in two of his writings ( Animzad .
ad Euseb .
p. 89 , and in oxu .
v Myem4 ) , h as adopted the opinion of PLINY ; but in another work ( De Emen .
Temp. in Can .
Isag .
p. 32 ) , he fixes the date of this eclipse on the 1st of October , 583 B.C. CALVISIUS , who was contemporary with SCALIGER , thinks that it took place in the year 607 B. C. ( Opus Chron. ) PETAVIUS says that it happened July 9 , 597 B. C. ( De Doct. Temp. lib. 1o , cap. 1 ) : and he has been followed by -HAIDOUIN ( Dissert .
de LXX hebdom .
Dan . ? .
3 ) , MARSHAAM ( Ciron .
Canon .
p. 561 ) , BOUHIER ( Recher .
et Diss .
sir Hlerodot .
p. 42 ) , and CORSINI ( Fast .
Attic .
Tom. III .
p. 68 ) ; together with M. LARCHER , the French translator of H1ERODOus ( Tom. I. p. 335 ) .
UsHER is of opinion that it happened on the 2oth of Septemn ber , 60o B. .
( Annal .
Vet .
et Nov. Testam .
) BAY , R has shown , from the astronomical tables ten in use , that this ec !
ipse ought to have taken piace May i8th , 603o B. C. ( Coi Jc Ac .
Scient .
fzp .
Petrop .
Tom. III .
) : and he has been 222 % supported in this opinion by the two English astronomers , COSTARD and STUKELEY ( Phil. Trans. for 1753 , pages 17 and 221 ) .
Lastly , M. VOLNEY has attempted to show , in a recent publication ( Chronology d'Herodole ) that the eclipse , mentioned by the historian , could be no other thaan the one which happened February gd , 626 B. C. Thus we find a distance of no less than forty-three years between the extreme periods that have been assigned for this eclipse : an interval which , however , may be somewhat abridged ; since there are other facts recorded by the same historian which enable us to reduce these limts , and yet leave the narration consistent with itself .
For , according to IER ODOTUS , the two kings of Media , that immediately pr !
eceded the conquest of that country by Cyrus , were Cyaxares , who rtigned forty years , and Astyages , who reigned thirty-five years : and it is admitted by all the chronologists , that Cyrus conquered Astyages in the year 560 B. C. Consequently ( if the numbers given by HERODOTUS be correct ) the reign of Cyaxares extended from 635 B. C. to 595 B. C. Acd , since the battle of the eclipse was fought in the sixth year of a war which began f}ter Cyaxares had ascended the throne , it could not happen earlier than 629 B. C. nor later than 595 B. C. If therefore we can find , within this short space of thirty-four years , a solar eclipse that was central and total in that part of Asia borcdering on the two hostile empires , where this battle was probably fought , we may justly conclude that it was the one alluded to by the historian .
I say that this eclipse must have been a total one , because no annular eclipse ( and much less a parlial one ) could have 223 produced that degree of obscurity alluded to by HERODOTUS , The celebrated MACLAURIN , in his account of the annular eclipse which happened at Edinburgh , February 18th , 1737 , observes ( Phil. Trans. Vol. XL , p. 177 ) , that " during the " appearance of the annulus , the direct light of the sun was " still very considerable ; but the places that were shaded from " his light , appeared gloomyy:"-that ( day-light was not " greatly obscured ; appearing only so much dimmer than s usual , as that of the sun is , when seen through a gentle " mist in a fine morning in April or May .
" And , as a further proof of the trifling alteration this phenomenon made , he observes , thatI " there was little notice taken of this eclipse by the populace in the country : and I cannot but add , that several ( " gentlemen of very good credit , and not in the least short " sighted , assure me , that about the middle of the annular ap( pearance they were not able to discover the moo ; z upon the sun , s when they looked without a smoked glass , or something " equivalent .
" In another account likewise of this eclipse , in the same volume , by Sir JOHN CLERK , Bart. it is observed that " there was no considerable darkness ; but the ground was covered with a kind of dark greenish colour .
" And M. LE MONNIER ( who came over from France on purpose to observe the annular eclipse of the sun , which happened July 14th , 1748 ) says , " that when he looked at the sun with his naked eyes , during the middle of the eclipse , he could observe nothizg " upon the sun , but saw the sun full , though faint in his light .
" ( Phil. Trans. Vol. XLV .
p. 588 ) .
In the account also which is given , in the Memoires de I'Acad .
Roy .
des Sciences for 1724 , of the total eclipse which happened on the 22d of May in that year , it is stated that , at the moment when the last portion of the sun was covered by the moon , " Ila clart6 a diminu6 tout d'un coup ; de sort qu'on a eft be " soin de lumiere pour compter a la pendule : on voyoit les " personnes au grand air , mais on no distinguoit pas bien les visages a quelques pas de loin .
" In another account , in the same volume , it is stated , that the darkness came on dans tz izstanat ; and that , after an interval of two mainutes and sixteen seconds " ( le soleil commen ?
a a reparoitre conzme un ecl'ir , " qui dissipa sir le champ les telndbres dans lesquelles on ( toit plong6 .
" M. DLSVIGNOLES , likewise ( in his Ch'r.oloie 'e l'Histoire Sante , Vol. II .
p.,53 ) , gives an extract of a letter from M. ABAUZIT of Geneva , who , at the close of his remarks on the calculation of PETAVIUS respecting this very eclipse , observes " ii ignoroit que le moinzde raion , qui commence a poindre , est assez frt pour dissiper les ten6bres : commeje " 'ai observe ' deuxfbzs .
" All which may serve to explain the remarkable expression of HERODOTUS , who says rnv j4Eeqv ?
r i ; ~ 3 vuWrT yevfeoOr , , " the day suddenly became night : " a passage which has been ignorantly censured by some of his commentators .
It appears to me , that an inattention to these singular facts has been the principal cause of the various opinions that have arisen respecting the time when this eclipse happened .
For each chronologist , having a system of his own to support , has satisfied himself merely with ascertaining that a solar eclipse did take place in the year that ae had assigned for it ; and which eclipse he supposed might be visible in that part of the world bordering on the two hostile countries : but without taking into his account the magnitude of the eclipse at the place where the battle is supposed to have been fought .
Now since the territories of the two belligerent powers were probably separated by the river Halys ( which was the case in the subsequent reign , although we have no authentic information that it was so at the period now under consideration ) , and as the battle was probably fought on the confines of these two empires , I think it will be evident from the preceding extracts , that no solar eclipse could be the one mentioned by HERODOTUS , unless it was central and total in some part of Asia Minor ; that is , the centre of the moon 's shadow , in such total eclipse , must have passed over that part of Asia Minor where the contending armies were engaging .
Consequently the fact is capable of being verified or disproved by the present state of our knowledge in astronomy .
M. TH .
S. BAYER is the first who seems to have fixed the attention of the public to this point , in a paper entitled Cbronologica Scythica , inserted in the Petersburg Memoirs for the year 1728 .
He consulted his friend FRED .
CHRIS .
MAYER on this subject , who has shown , from the astronomical tables then in use , that neither the eclipse mentioned by PLINY , SCALIGER , CALVISIUS , PETAVIUS , or USHER , could possibly be the eclipse alluded to by HERODOTUS .
For , the first two ( he says ) happened between the hours of sun-set and sun-rise in Asia Minor .
In the third , the centre of the moon 's shadow passed too near the equator , and in the last two it passed too far to the north of Asia Minor , for it to cause any remarkable obscurity there .
In order , however , to set the question at rest , he calculated all the solar eclipses that could possibly be seen in Asia Minor from the year 608 B. C. to 556 B. C. ; and he found that the one which took place May t8 , 603 B. C , was the only one that was at all likely to be that mentioned by 26 HERODOTUS .
According to his computation , the centre of the moon 's shadow in that eclipse entered the earth 's disk about N. lat. e1 40 ' , and E. long .
23 ?
from Ferrol .
It proceeded then towards the mouths of the Nile ; and , traversing the Mediterranean , crossed Cyprus , Cilicia , and Cappadocia , and passed over to Trebizond .
The Rev. GEORGE COSTARD , without knowing what M. MAYER had done , has drawn nearly the same conclusions ; and has likewise entered into a calculation ( from Dr. HALLEY'S tables ) of all the eclipses which have been assigned to this event by preceding authors : which may be seen , at length , in the Philosophical Transactions for 1753 .
In a subsequent paper , in the same volume , Dr. STUKELEY has given a map containing the path of the moon 's shadow in this eclipse , deduced from the calculations of a Mr. WEAVER ; and which correspond nearly with Mr. COSTARD'S .
But Mr. COSTARD has suggested an important correction in his computation , by allowing for the moon 's acceleration ; which does not appear to have been attended to either by M. MAYER or Mr. WEAVER : and which throws the route of the moon 's shadow too far to the southward to pass over any part of Asia Minor .
For , on this supposition ( he observes ) the umbra of the moon will leave Africa near Damietta ; and , after traversing the southeast corner of the Mediterranean , will enter Syria between Tripoli and Tyre : and , proceeding across Mesopotamia , between Nisibin and Mosul , will enter the Caspian sea near Ardebil .
Notwithstanding this circumstance , however , the date here assigned has continued to be received as the true date of the battle of the eclipse by all succeeding chronologists ; although it must be evident , even from these data , that Gg such eclipse could not be total any where near the place where the battle was probably fought .
But none of these calculations can have much weight at the present day , since they must have been formed from tables which the subsequent improvements in astronomy have shown to be exceedingly defective and incorrect .
Even the meanz motions of the sun and moon are not given with a sufficient degree of accuracy , either in the Rudolphine or Htalleiat tables , to enable us to determine , with any tolerable correctness , their true mean place of conjunction at so remote a period : neither can the lunar equations , there given , be safely depended upon .
The secular variations also are wholly omitted : and these must have an important effect in all inquiries of this kind , since they increase in proportion to the period of time elapsed .
Under these circumstances , and in order to set this question at rest , as far as it can now be done by the aid of astronomical science , I have been induced to re-calculate the elements of the several eclipses , above alluded to , from the new Tables Astronomiques , lately published by the Bureau des Longitudes in France .
In these tables , the mean motions of the sun and ioon are given with the greatest exactness for the most distant periods : and , by the successive labours of MAYER , MASON , and BURG , the lunar equations are carried to an astonishing correctness ; which , together with the secular variations deduced from the formula of M. LAPLACE , enible us to determine the true place of the sun and moon with considerable accuracy for many centuries prior to the Christian era .
'These calculations , at full length , together with a map containing the .
paths of the moon 's shadow in the several eclipses there 228 alluded to , are sent with this paper for the inspection of the Members of the Royal Society , should they be desirous of entering more fully into the detail .
The substance of those inquiries I shall now proceed to lay before them .
The eclipse , which is supposed to have been that alluded to by PLINY , happened May 28th , 585 B. C. : and the time of the ecliptic conjunction was at 2h 38 ' 22 " in the afternoon , mean time at Greenwich , or 2h 46 ' 24 apparent time .
The elements were as follow : True longitude of the luminaries 1s 29e 41 ' 4 " Sun 's declination , north 20 23 17 --semi-diameter 15 45 Moon 's semi-diameter 16 43 equatorial parallax 6i 13 ----lorary motion from the sun 35 29 ---true latitude 12 39 --horary motion in latitude 3 30 By a projection of this eclipse , I find that the sun was centrally eclipsed on the meridian , about the middle of the Atlantic ocean , in N. lat. 33$ ?
and W. long .
43 ? .
The centre of the moon 's shadow then proceeded to the parallel of N. lat. 400 , in V. long .
13 ?
; where , turning to the southward , it crossed Spain , and traversed the course of the Mediterranean .
By a trigonometrical calculation I have ascertained that the sun set centrally eclipsed on the borders of the Red Sea in N. lat. 28 ? ?
11 , and E. long .
3S5 2 ' .
So that at no time was this eclipse central in or near any part of Asia Minor .
It happened likewise ten years after the death of Cyaxares , according to the received chronology .
22 : With respect to the eclipse , which happened October 1st , 583 B. C. it is sufficient to observe that , as the ecliptic conjunction of the sun and moon did not take place till after four o'clock in the afternoon at Greenwich , it is evident that the sun must have set , centrally eclipsed , to the westward of any meridian line that can be drawn through any part of Asia Minor : and consequently the eclipse could not have been central in that peninsula .
CALVIsIUS does not come much nearer the truth , in supposing that the eclipse mentioned by HERODOTUS is the one which occurred in 607 B. C. For in that which happened July goth , the ecliptic conjunction took place at 8h 26 ' 18 ' in the morning , mean time at Greenwich , or 8h 5 ' 45 " apparent time : and the elements were as follow : True longitude of the luminaries g3 299 6 ' 54 ' Sun 's declination , north 20 38 39 ---semi-diameter 55 Moon 's semi-diameter 1o ----_ equatorial parallax 54 33 _---. .
horary motion from the sun 27 41.---. .
true latitude , south 2 17.--- .
horary motion in latitude 2 46 By a trigonometrical calculation , I find that the sun rose centrally eclipsed off the coast of Sierra Leona in N. lat. 8 ? ?
1 ' and W. long .
12 g33 ' .
The moon 's umbra then crossed the continent of Africa between the loth and 20th degrees of north latitude : and the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian in Arabia Felix , in N. lat. i8 ? ? ? ?
and E. long .
3 24 ' .
It is evident , therefore , that this eclipse ( independent of its r3 eing annular ) was not central in any part of Asia Minor .
The other eclipse in this year , which took place February sd , happened when it was near midnight in Asia Minor .
The eclipse mentioned by PETAVIUS took place July gth , 597 B. C. The ecliptic conjunction happened at 4h 29 ' 25 " in the morning , mean time at Greenwich , or 411 29 ' 58 " apparent time : and the , elements were as follow : True longitude of the luminaries 3s 9G 16 ' 32 " Sun 's declination , north 23 28 i8 --seni-diameter 15 49 Moon 's semi-diameter 14 50 -. .
equatorial parallax 54 23 -horary motion from the sun 27 32 --..true latitude 41 59.---horary motion in latitude -2 42 By a trigonometrical calculation , I find that the sun rose centrally eclipsed to the inhabitants of Holland in N. lat. 51 ? ?
45 ' and E. long .
5 ? ?
39 ' .
The moon 's umbra then proceeded across Denmark , Finland , and the northern provinces of Russia : and the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 74 ?
0 and E. long .
113 ' 35 ' .
This eclipse , therefore , could not possibly be the one mentioned by HERODOTUS .
And yet his translator , M. LARCHER , without taking the slightest pains to verify the fact , or even to ascertain its probability , has adopted it as the most likely one , " parcequ'elle s'accorde mieux avec ia chronology que toutes les autres : " an opinion as unfounded , as the circumstance to which it relates ; and an assumption which puts the visionary speculations of the antiquarian in competition with the immutable laws of nature .
It 2.1 is scarcely necessary to add , that this eclipse likewise was annular .
In the eclipse alluded to by USHER , September 20th , 6o0 B. C. the ecliptic conjunction took place at 7h 25 ' 18 " in the morning , mean time at Greenwich , or 7h 31 ' 35 " apparent time : and the elements were as follow : True longitude of the luminaries 2s .
46 ' So " Sun 's declination , north 42 27 --semi-diameter .
16 8 Moon 's semi-diameter 16 43 equatorial parallax 61 14 ----horary motion from the sun 35 24 -r-.--true latitude 52 1 -- .
horary motion in latitude 3 27 From a projection of this eclipse , it will be seen that the centre of the moon 's shadow entered the earth 's disk very near the north pole ; and that the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 73-1 and in E. long , 72 ?
o ' .
, The umbra then passed over Siberia and the eastern parts of the Chinese empire : and consequently this eclipse was not central in any part of Asia Minor .
The eclipse first suggested by BAYER , and hitherto generally received as the true one , happened May 18th , 603 B. C. The ecliptic conjunction took place at 711 i ' 13 " in the morning , mean time at Greenwich , or 7h 19 ' 36 " apparent time : and the elements were as follow : True longitude of the luminaries i9 19 ?
' 1 }5 ' Sun 's declination , north 17 48 24.-semi-diameter 15 46 Moon 's semi-diameter 16 ' 43 .
^ ; ... .
equatorial parallax 61 i6 h-orary motion from the sun 35 32 true latitude 7 15 r..- ... --.o horary motion in latitude 3 o3 By a trigonometrical calculation , I find that the sun rose centrally eclipsed in S. lat. 5 ? ?
9 ' and E. long .
o ? ?
46 ' .
The moon 's umbra then passed over the continent of Africa in a north-easterly direction ; and , crossing the Red Sea , entered Arabia near Mecca , continuing its course over the provinces of Kerman and Segistan in Persia .
The sun afterwards became centrally eclipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 35{ ?
and E. long .
68 ? .
Consequently this eclipse could not be central in any part of Asia Minor : and yet it has generally been considered , of late years , as the only one that could be reconciled to the fact .
Lastly , I shall notice the eclipse proposed by M. VOLNEY , which happened February gd , 626 B. C. The ecliptic conjunction took place at 4h 19 ' 27 " in the lorning , mean time at Greenwich , or 4h o ' 935 apparent time : and the elements were as follow : True longitude of the luminarie s o ' 7 47 ' 47 1 Sun 's declination , south 18 35 50 --semi-diameter 67 Moon 's semi-diameter 15 16 ---equatorial parallax 55 56 horary motion from the sun 29 13 Moon 's true latitude 44 e8 v-.horary motion in latitude 5 By a trigonometrical calculation , I have ascertained that the sun rose centrally eclipsed to the inhabitants of Great Buccharia in N. lat. 40 ? ?
17 ' , and E. long .
6i ' $5 ' : and the moon 's umbra then proceeded in a south-easterly direction across Thibet and China .
Consequently this eclipse ( which , moreover , was an annular one ) could not possibly be central in any part of Asia lying to the west of the Caspian Sea : and M. VOLNEY ought to have taken some steps towards ascertaining this fact , before he ventured to set up his own opinion in opposition to all preceding chronologists .
I have thus shown , from the most correct evidence which the present state of astronomical science affords , that not one of the eclipses , mentioned by either of the authors above alluded to , could possibly be that which is recorded in so singular a manner by HERODOTUS .
In order , however , that I might not leave the subject in the same degree of doubt in which I found it , I have taken the pains to calculate all the solar eclipses that were likely to have been visible in Asia Minor , from the year 650 B. C. to 580 B. C. : but , out of this period of seventy years , I have found only one that was central in , or near , any part of that peninsula .
The eclipse here alluded to , happened September goth , 61o B. C. The ecliptic conjunction took place at 811 i ' 51 " in the morning , mean time at Greenwich , or 81h l ' 41 " apparent time : and the elements were as follow : 2S4 True longitude of the luminaries 5 29 ?
S9 ' 40 " Sun 's declination , north 8 --semi-diameter i6 io Moon 's semi-diameter 16 36 equatorial parallax -o 50 ---horary motion from the sun 34 53 true latitude 29 57 -----horary motion in latitude 3 26 Since the sun 's declination in this eclipse was only eight seconds , it may safely be neglected in the calculation ; and it may then be found very easily by plane trigonometry that the sun rose centrally eclipsed in N. lat. 47 ? ?
34 ' , and W. long .
11 ? ?
55 ' ; that it was centrally eclipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 31 ? ?
6 ' , and E. o 59 33 , ; and set centrally eclipsed in N. lat. 11 13 ' , and E. long .
122 ? ?
36 ' .
The centre of the moon 's shadow crossed the parallel of N. lat. 42 ?
in E. long .
34 ? ?
45 ' ; and the parallel of N. lat. 360 in E. long .
5o ?
: and consequently passed nearly in a straight line over the north-eastern part of Asia Minor , through Armenia and Persia , where the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian , as above-mentioned .
This eclipse , therefore , was central and total to part of Asia Minor , Armenia , and Media : and the path of the moon 's umbra lay in the very track where the two hostile armies probably met .
For it passed over the very mouth of the Halys , just at the point where Croesus , the immediate successor of Alyattes , crossed that river in order to attack the Median empire .
It would appear from the order of events belonging to the reign of Cyaxares , as related by Herodotus , that the battle of Hh L 235 the eclipse happened prior to the invasion of the Scythians , who kept possession of his kingdom twenty-eight years ; and that , after the expulsion of those barbarians , he besieged and took the city of Nineveh , and thereby put an end to the Assyrian empire .
This , however , will not accord with the date here assigned : neither indeed will it suit any of the systems above alluded to ; except it be that of M. VOLNEY , which may lay claim to some ingenuity .
But his system is too much at variance with the astronomical fact to be entitled to any credit .
It has been remarked by Dr. HALLEY ( Phil. Trans. Vol , XXIX .
p. 245 ) , that c " though twenty-eight eclipses of the " sun happen in eighteen years , and eight pass through the " parallel of London , yet since March soth , 1140 , no total eclipse has been seen in that metropolis .
" Indeed , so rare is this phenomenon in any particular country , that its occurrence , when well authenticated , may be considered as an era which is less liable to mistakes or confusion , than any other event recorded in history .
All attempts at imposition or deceit are easily detected by our knowledge of astronomy : and the unintentional errors of the historian are soon rectified and adjusted .
On this account , and as the fact of the eclipse is so confidently related by HERODOTUS ( indeed , its singular coincidence with the battle will ever render it memorable in history ) , I would place the termination of the war between Alyattes and Cyaxares , in the year 61o B. C. : and , if the other events of that period , as related by the historian , cannot be reconciled to this date , I should attribute the confusion to the want of authentic documents and information at the time tiait the history was written .
s36 I have before observed , that all these calculations have been made from the Tables Astronomiques , lately published in France : which tables have since been adapted to the ridian of Grenwich , and to astronomical time , by Mr. Vi ; cE , ad iser:-ed by him in the third volume of his System of Astronom ; ny .
In these tables are given the secular variationss in the moo:3 's m ean longitude , mean anotmaly , and miiean distance from her node , as deduced from the formula of M. LAPLACE .
I is with much deference that I presume to question the accuracy of the results , obtained by means of those formula ; but , as the present subject is in a great measure connected wxith that inquiry , I shall briefly state my reasons for offering a cdobt upon that point .
It is well known that AGATHIOCLES , king of Syracuse ( when besieged in that city by HAMILCAR , the Carthaginian general ) , undertook the bold design of invading Africa , and thereby moving the seat of war from Sicily .
He accordin gly embarked a numerous army , and set sail for the continent .
The day after he left Syracuse , the fleet was terrified at an eclipse of the sun ; which was so great ; , that , in the words of DIODORUS * It is to be regretted , that Mr. VI Nc did not adapt his tables to the English system of chronology likewise .
For the years before Christ , according to the English mode of computation , exceed by unity the corresponding years given by the Frencb chronologists : since they make the year of Christ equal to o , whereas the English reckon it as I B. C.-The French also assume the year I582 as the date of the Reformation of the Calendar ; whereas , in England , that event di( no take place till the year 1752 .
Without a proper attention to these circumstances , we may be led inito an error of one whole year , in the calculation of the places of the heavenly bodies for any period prior to the Christian era ; and inato an error of ten or eleven days in our calculations for that space of time which is included between1 October 5th , 58z , and September 14th , 175z2 e$37 SICULUS , lib. , 2 oXoXE cpxv7 vmrl ; , EWVoM eOu y 7eWy T CrtEP yav.raX , " it seemed exactly like night , the stars every where " appearing .
" This eclipse was therefore evidently total in the place where it was seen by the fleet of AGATHOCLES .
It happened on August i5th , 31o B. C. The ecliptic conjunction took place at 8h 10 ' 23 " in the morning , mean time at Greenwich , or 8h 9 ' 6 " apparent time : and the elements were as follow : True longitude of the luminaries g44 6 ? ?
41 !
3e2 Sun 's declination , north 62 38 -semi-diameter 15 57 Moon 's semi-diameter 16 39 equatorial parallax 6 o ? . .
v horary motion from the sun 35 9 it t true latitude 42 horary motion in latitude 3 28 From these elements I have found , by a trigonometrical calculation , that the sun rose centrally eclipsed to the inhabitants of the western coast of Africa , in N. lat. 24 ? ?
57 ' and W. long .
14 ? ?
9 ' .
The centre of the moon 's shadow then ; crossing the desert , proceeded towards the Mediterranean , near to , but rather to the southward of , Tripoli ; and crossed the parallel of N. lat. 33 ?
in E. long .
20 ? ?
44 ' .
But in no part of its course did it advance more.northerly than N. lat. 330 55 ' 36 " , which I find by a trigonometrical calculation to be its maximum of latitude , and the parallel of which it reached in E. long .
3,5 21 ' 8 " .
It then turned to the south ; and the sun became centrally ecipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 3ol ?
and E. long .
59 ? ?
45 ' . !
38 Let us now compare this result , with the fact as related by DIoDoRUS .
It is stated by this author , that AGATHOCLES was six days on his passage , from Syracuse to the coast of Africa ; although he used the utmost expedition , being , in fact , closely pursued by the Carthaginian fleet .
The place where he landed was called Aaro0isz~r , the Qta rries ; whence he proceeded to the neighbouring cities of Meya ?
yv 6Xiv , Megalapolis , or the Great City , and AEucov TuV7rTC , zWhite TuLnis .
The position of these cities is not -handed down to us ; all that we know is , that the latter place ( which must not be confounded with the present Tunis ) was two thousand stadia , or two hundred and twenty-nine English miles , distant from Carthage .
AGATHOCLES , therefore , probably landed near the Syrtis Minor , or Gulf of Cabes , about three hundred miles in a direct course from Syracuse : whence we may reasonably conclude that he perfoSrmed one-sixth of his passage , or about fifty miles , in the space of one day ; which , I am aware , is not so much as the mean rate that has been attributed to the ships of the ancients ( see HERODOTUS , lib. 4 , ? .
86 ) .
Syracuse lies in N. lat. 370 3 ' and E. long .
15 ? ?
14 ' ; and , consequently , on the day after the sailing of A GATHOCLES from that port ( being the day on which the eclipse took place ) , the fleet would be in about N. lat. 36 ? ? ? ?
: at all events , it could not ( from the direction of its course ) be much farther south than this point , which is all that is required in the present instance ; and a few miles , either way , not being of any material consequence .
It follows therefore , that in the meridian of Syracuse , the northern part of the moon 's umbra ought to extend as far north as that parallel of latitude .
But , from the calculations above adduced , it 2 9 will be found that the centre of the moon 's shadow , on that meridian , had only reached the parallel of about N. lat. S3 ?
o , and as the semi-dialmeter of the umbra was not more than forty-seven and a quarter English statute miles , or about twothirds of a degree , the eclipse could not there be total to the northward of N. lat. 33 , ? .
Now , since the place where AGATH OCLES landed in Africa , was probably not situated below the parallel of N. lat. 340 , it is evident that he did not , in any part of his course ( and much less , at the commencement of it ) , come within a considerable distance of the moon 's umbra .
I much doubt whether , according to our present computation , this eclipse was total even at Tripoli : and , although it was unquestionably of considerable magnitude , both there and as far north as Syracuse itself , yet ( for the reasons already given in this paper ) I do not think that , at any intermediate place between these two cities , it could be so great as to produce that degree of obscurity , which is recorded by DIODORUS and confirmed by JUSTIN .
In order that the phenomenon should accord wiith the fact , as related by these historians , the centre of the moon 's shadow ought to pass over , or very near to , Malta : that is , the latitude of the moon ought to be , at least , three degrees greater than our present tables make it .
Since the latitude of the moon depends on her true distance from the node , these observations ( if correct ) will show the necessity of some alteration in the table of the secular variation of the moon 's mean distance from her node , which ( agreeably to the rule given by M. LAPLACE ) is deduced inmmediately from the secular variation of her mean longitude .
These remarks , however , are thrown out merely as hints to those who e-4 ?
are more conversant with , and better informed on , the subject : and I regret that I have not more time to pursue the inquiry farther .
Such an alteration , as is here suggested , would somewhat vary the position of the route of the moon 's umbra , in all the eclipses which have been the subject of this paper ; but , in none of them would it alter the conclusions which have been drawn from them , except perhaps in the one ( Sept. goth , 61o B. C. ) which I have supposed to be that mentioned by HERODOTUS .
In this particular case , the path of the moon 's umbra might , by such a correction , be thrown so much farther north as to prevent the eclipse being total in any part of Asia Minor .
But still it would remain the only one that can be at all adapted to the account given by HERODOTUS ; since there is no other that could possibly be central in , or near , any part of Asia Minor from the year 650 B , C. to 580 B. C. : a period which far exceeds the probable limits of time wherein this singular phenomenon must have taken place , so as to be reconcileable to any received system of chronology ?
F. B. November , 810o .

