192 Dr. A. Sheridan Lea .
A comparative [ Feb. 20 , February 20 , 1890 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " A comparative Study of Natural and Artificial Digestions .
' ' ( Preliminary Account .
) By A. Sheridan Lea , Sc. D. , Fellow of Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge , University Lecturer in Physiology , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) Received February 12 , 1890 .
When the conditions under which artificial digestions are usually carried on are compared with those under which digestion takes place in the alimentary canal , it is seen at once how imperfect the former are in comparison with the latter .
The most important factors present in natural digestion , and wanting in the artificial , are : 1 .
Constant motion and mixing of the digesting mass .
2 .
Constant removal of the digestive products .
3 .
Continuous addition of fresh portions of digestive fluid .
These factors must determine that natural digestion is more rapid and complete than is the artificial imitation , and my experiments were begun with a view to carrying out artificial digestions under conditions which should supply some at least of those which are usually wanting in such cases , but are always piesent in the natural process .
The apparatus employed may be described as follows:\#151 ; A stream of water is warmed by passing through a heated copper coil , and allowed to flow through a vertical cylindrical vessel in which is concentrically immersed a smaller cylindrical glass vessel some 2 feet high and 4 inches in diameter .
By this means the contents of the inner vessel can be kept constantly at a temperature of 40 ' C. The lower end of the inner vessel is connected with a tube which passes through the side of the outer vessel , so that its contents may be drawn off and renewed whenever it may be desired to do so .
The material to be digested is placed in a U -shaped loop of parchment-paper tubing , together with the digestive fluid , and this loop is then allowed to hang down freely into the inner vessel , and is surrounded by a fluid whose composition is the same as that of the 1890 .
] Study of Natural and Artificial Digestions .
193 digestive fluid minus the digestive ferment .
This parchment dialyser is finally kept in constant up and down motion by means of an appropriate motor , and its contents are thus continuously mixed by the almost " peristaltic " waves which pass over the walls of the tube during its motion .
In this way it becomes possible to take advantage of the diffusibility of the digestive products , and effect their more or less rapid removal during any given digestion .
It will be further seen that the diffused products can be collected , so that there is no loss of material during the digestion .
Moreover , the rate of removal of the products can , within certain limits , be modified by the frequency of changing the fluid into which their diffusive removal takes place .
It has not as yet been found possible to supply the third factor in a normal digestion , viz. , the continuous addition of fresh digestive ferment .
Although the above apparatus is very efficient , as compared with the vessels in which artificial digestions are usually carried on , it falls far behind the natural , and chiefly for two reasons .
In the first place , the removal of digestive products is dependent solely and entirely upon their diffusibility , Avhereas in the alimentary canal there is now no doubt that they are largely removed by the specific activity of the epithelial cells .
In the next place , the diffusive exit of the products leads to an influx of fluid into the dialyser , which , by diluting the ferment solution , is detrimental to its continued initial activity .
Notwithstanding these shortcomings , the differences in the rate and completeness of a digestion carried on in this apparatus , as compared with those of one carried on under otherwise similar conditions in a flask , are very marked , and indicate that its efficiency is not inconsiderable .
I may now describe the experiments I have made , the results I have obtained , and the conclusions which may be drawn from them .
I \#151 ; TheSalivary Digestion of Starch .
The information we possess indicates that in the alimentary canal starch is completely converted into sugar before absorption .
When , ou the other hand , starch is digested artificially with either saliva or pancreatic ferment , the conversion into sugar is never anything other than far from complete , and a bye-product , dextrin , is always obtained in varying but large amounts .
My first series of experiments was undertaken with a view to determining the cause of the above difference m the two cases , and to obtain , if possible , an artificial digestion which should be as complete as the natural .
It may , perhaps , be said that , inasmuch as in the body starch is digested chiefly , and in some animals entirely , by the pancreatic juice , therefore any deduction from a salivary digestion is not applicable to t e pancreatic .
But tliis objection is of no great importance here , 1^4 Dr. A. Sheridan Lea .
A comparative [ Feb. 20 , for the experiments deal chiefly with the factors which determine the activity of a ferment during digestion , and there is no reason for supposing that there is any fundamental difference in the circumstances which may modify the activities of two ferments so closely similar as those of the salivary gland and pancreas .
Indeed , it seems probable that w.hat holds good for saliva will hold good with even greater force for the pancreatic ferment , since the latter is relatively more active than the former .
The experiments were conducted by comparing the products formed when portions of the same mixture of starch and saliva are simultaneously digested for equal times in ( i ) the dialyser , ( ii ) a flask .
The products with which I had to deal were dextrin and maltose These I estimated in each case as follows :\#151 ; The dextrin was precipitated by alcohol in excess , dried at 100 ' , and weighed ; the alcoholic filtrate from this was evaporated to dryness , the residue taken up in water , and the sugar determined in this by rotation and reduction , and no results were accepted in which these two methods did not give equivalent values for the sugar in solution .
The following experiments illustrate the accuracy obtainable by these methods .
3'412 grams of starch were placed in each of two flasks and digested with saliva .
Flash 1.\#151 ; 3'412 gr. starch yielded 0'505 gr. dextrin .
2'838 gr. maltose .
Flash 2.\#151 ; 3-412 gr.'starch yielded 0'448 gr. dextrin .
2-904 gr. maltose .
3-352 The results of my numerous experiments are as follows : 1 .
The rate of digestion , estimated by the times of relative disappearance of the iodine reactions , is greater in the dialyser than in ct flask 2 .
The tendency to the development of bacteria is much less in the dialyser than in a flask .
* 3 .
The amount of starch finally converted into sugar is always greater than in a flask , and the amount of dextrin residue is less .
This is shown by the following typical experiment .
Using a mixture of starch and saliva which contained 423 per cent , of starch , at the end of twenty-one hours ' digestion the dialyser contained lb'78 per cent , dextrin , the flask 36'62 per cent. At t e end of sixty-eight hours the dialyser contained 8'48 per cent , of dextrin , the flask 35*70 per cent. 1890 .
] Study of Natural and Artificial Digestions .
4 .
When the starch is digested in very dilute solutions , the amount changed may be approximately , though never quite , as great in a flask as in the dialyser .
5 .
The small amount of dextrin ( 4'29 per cent. ) which may be left in the dialyser at the end of an active and prolonged digestion justifies the assumption that under the more favourable conditions in the alimentary canal the whole of the starch would be converted into sugar .
6 .
There is no evidence from these experiments of the formation in appreciable amount of any sugar other-than maltose by the action of saliva on starch .
I am at present engaged on a set of experiments similar to the above , using pancreatic ferment instead of saliva , in order to justify my application of the results obtained with ' the latter to the natural process , as carried on by the former in the body .
II.\#151 ; The Tryptic Digestion of Froteids .
The starting point for this series of experiments was found in the following considerations .
When proteids are digested by trypsin artificially they always yield large quantities of leucin and tyrosin at the same time as the peptones .
In the intestine* , on the other hand , these crystalline products are not described as occurring in more than microscopic amounts , if at all .
Their absence in natural digestion might be due to two causes : either ( i ) they are formed , but removed as fast as they are formed ; or else ( ii ) they are not formed at all .
Since they arise by the further action of the trypsin on the first-formed peptones , and the latter are removed very rapidly after their formation , it was thus possible that the non-occurrence of leucin and tyrosin in the intestine was due to the rapid removal of the material out of which they otherwise would have arisen .
It appeared possible to obtain some solution of the difficulties presented by a comparison of natural with artificial digestion by comparative experiments in the dialyser and a flask .
The solution is further one of considerable physiological importance , in view of the fact that leucin is known to be partly converted into urea when administered to an animal , so that the difference is one which bears upon the possible source of some of the urea which is normally being excreted under a proteid diet .
The material used for the digestions- was fibrin in different conditions : 1 .
Boiled and extracted with alcohol and ether , in which condition it is extremely difficult of digestion .
2 .
Simply boiled and dried by pressure .
3 .
Air-dried -without any preliminary boiling .
The digestive solution was in most cases prepared by dissolving purified trypsin in 025 per cent , carbonate of soda with 05 per cent , thymol ; in some few cases the fluid was prepared by adding Benger 's 196 Dr. A. Sheridan Lea .
comparative [ Feb. 20 , " liquor pancreaticus " to the above solution of sodium carbonate and thymol .
The results of the experiments are as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The rate at which the fibrin is broken down is enormously greater in the dialyser than in a flask .
2 .
The amount of proteid which goes into solution in a given time is always greater in the dialyser than in a flask .
3 .
The amount of leucin and tyrosin formed in a flask is greater than in the dialyser , but the difference is comparatively slight .
The third of these results made it possible that if , as in the alimentary canal , the peptones could be removed nearly as rapidly as they are formed , then the amount of leucin and tyrosin formed m the dialyser would be also very small , and might approximate to the traces formed in the intestine .
This is a possibility to which no experimental test can be applied , since the removal of peptones is in artificial digestions dependent simply on their diffusi-bility .
In the alimentary canal their removal is , without doubt , the result very largely of the specific activity of the epithelial ceils .
When I examined the contents of the intestine during full proteid digestion , I obtained evidence of a very considerable formation of leucin and tyrosin , of so much , in fact , that the difference with respect to these substances in a natural and artificial digestion becomes quantitative and not qualitative .
Thus , in one case where a large dog was fed with 500 grams of lean meat , of which nearly the whole was digested in the ensuing six hours , I obtained such a quantity of leucin and tyrosin from the contents of the small intestine that , after the loss due to recrystallising and the performance of all the tests necessary for their thorough identification , I am in possession of 1 gram of leucin and 0'3 gram of tyrosin .
Although the above is the most extreme case of the formation of these substances with which I have met , still in all cases where I have fed dogs with proteid , and this food has been perceptibly digested , I have obtained more than " microscopic " amounts of leucin and tyrosin from the intestine .
Since there is no reason to suppose that active absorption of these crystalline products has not been going on during the whole time of their formation , their presence in some cases , in not inconsiderable amounts , towards the close of a digestion must imply a large total formation during the digestion .
In this way the difficulty arising out of a quantitative comparison of the crystalline end-products of a natural and artificial tryptic digestion received a solution of a quite unexpected kind .
If , as I believe , my experiments thus show the formation of leucin and tyrosin in not inconsiderable quantities during proteid digestion in the intestine , some interesting considerations arise as to the physiological significance of the same .
1890 .
] Study of Natuvul and.1 vtlficv.il Digestions .
197 Leaving tyrosin out of account for the present , the more usual view has been that any degradation of the nitrogen of proteids into the amide form in the alimentary canal , accompanied by the probable immediate conversion of the leucin into urea in the liver , and its direct excretion as urea , implies a waste of energy which is improbable on teleological grounds .
And this view is supported by the statements as to the absence of leucin ( and tyrosin ) from the alimentary canal .
Now , however , we have to deal with the fact that these amid-ated acids are formed during proteid digestion .
There are two possible Avays in which their formation may be of importance to the animal economy .
Although at first sight the conversion of part of the proteid into leucin and its speedy elimination as urea seems to imply a Avaste of energy to the body , it is not improbable , as Foster has suggested , that this maybe of real use to the economy .
We know that in artificial digestions the amount , nature , and digestibility of a proteid , and the activity of the ferment Avhich acts upon it , deter-ixiiiie to some extent the course and results of the digestion .
These factors will probably make themselves still more felt in a natural digestion in the body .
Thus leucin may make its appearance to very varying extents at different times in the same animal , and so proAnde a sort of safety valve to the organism by diverting from the tissues what would otherwise frequently be an unnecessarily large burden of proteid metabolism .
A second vieAv is one which opens up the whole question of the physiological significance of the amides in the animal economy .
It is1 known that the amides play an all-important part in the nitrogenous metabolism of plants .
Leucin and tyrosin occur widely spread in many of the tissues and fluids of animals .
In many deranged conditions , notably of the liver , these substances occur in largely increased amounts , so that a discharge of them takes place from the body .
It is thus possible that normally their occurrence in smaller amounts is due to the fact that in the healthy organism they are being continually used up in the chemical cycle of tissue metabolism .
Thus the real significance of their formation during digestion may well be for the supply of new amidated compounds , to take the place of those portions which must be always becoming useless for further metabolic processes by continual wear and tear .
Examined in the light of all the facts which can be brought to bear upon it , there is much evidence in support of this view .
It is , however , incompatible with the requirements of a preliminary communication to enter fully here into a discussion and application of this evidence .

