492 Dr. H. J. H. Fenton .
Dimethylenediol w X : y : z Cl/ \sOoK 38 4 *4428 : : 3 *0865 : : 2 -7930 ( Cl\lt ; ^ ^\gt ; S03)2Co.6H20 100 11 *3960 : : 3 -1136 : : 2 -8244 The y and z parameters of the two salts are practically equal : it is as if in the cobalt salt the two component units ( Cl\lt ; ^ / \gt ; S03 ) were joined by the metallic atom , and that the water molecules are enclosed between them in the manner suggested in Part IY of these Studies ( p. 310 ) .
The relationship between the potassium and cobalt salts cannot well be accounted for in any other manner .
] Dimethylenediol Peroxide ( Diformal Peroxide Hydrate ) .
By H. J. H. Fenton , M.A , Sc. D. , F.E.S. ( Received and read May 28 , 1914 .
) The conditions of the co-existence of hydrogen dioxide and formaldehyde , and the nature of their interaction , are of special interest in connection with the theories which have been advanced to account for the photosynthesis of carbohydrates in plants .
As the initial stage in the assimilation of carbon dioxide , Bach* suggested that carbon dioxide in presence of water gives rise to percarbonic acid ( H2C04 ) and formaldehyde , whereas Usher and Priestley j " consider that the primary products are hydrogen dioxide and formaldehyde , the change being reversible in the sense C02 + 3H20 \#151 ; H.CHO-f 2H202 .
This view has been opposed by various authors , one ground for objection being the , presumably , incompatible nature of the two compounds named .
The interaction of hydrogen dioxide and formaldehyde was first studied by Blank and Finkenbeiner , J who showed that , in presence of alkalis , * 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 116 , p. 1145 ( 1893 ) .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 77 , p. 369 ; vol. 78 , p. 318 ( 1906 ) ; and vol. 84 , p. 101 ( 1911 ) .
% ' Ber .
, ' vol. 31 , p. 2979 ( 1898 ) .
Peroxide ( Diformal Peroxide Hydrate ) .
493 hydrogen is evolved and that the change may be employed for the quantitative estimation of formaldehyde .
They represent the change as 2H.CHO 4- H202-f 2NaOH = 2H.COOIsTa + 2H20 + H2 .
Geisow* afterwards studied the action in neutral or acid solution when warmed in a water-bath and he states that , under these conditions , the products are carbon dioxide and hydrogen , no formic acid being produced , H.CHO + H202 = C02 + H20 + H2 .
Since barium dioxide behaves similarly to hydrogen dioxide , it would appear that the hydrogen evolved is derived from the formaldehyde .
Lyford , f on the other hand , finds that formic acid is produced as the initial stage , 2H.CH0 + H202 = 2H.COOH +H2 , and is subsequently oxidised to carbon dioxide and water .
In the course of some experiments bearing on these questions , it has been observed that when a strong solution of formaldehyde ( e.g. , commercial formalin ) is mixed with pure 100-volume hydrogen dioxide ( Merck 's perhydrol ) in about equal volumes , and the mixture is allowed to evaporate at a low temperature , in a vacuum desiccator over sulphuric acid , a brilliant crystalline mass is obtained , consisting of large , transparent , rectangular plates or prisms .
The exact proportions of the reagents employed do not greatly matter ; if , however , the formaldehyde is in large excess , the soft colloidal polymer of formaldehyde separates , and , if the dioxide is in excess , the crystallisation is retarded or prevented .
The crystals are odourless , but they emit a strong ozone-like odour when treated with sulphuric acid .
This crystalline compound has interesting properties ; it melts at about 65 ' , and , if heated a few degrees above this temperature , it explodes with detonation , the products having a strong odour of formaldehyde .
If the powdered substance is brought into contact with reduced iron ( ferrum redactum ) or platinum black , it immediately bursts into flame , and with cupric oxide it behaves similarly when gently warmed .
Mixed with inert powders , such as silica , it decomposes suddenly on warming , but without explosion or ignition .
The substance dissolves very easily in water , alcohol , or acetic acid , and sparingly in anhydrous ether ; from the latter solvent it may be recrystallised unchanged .
The aqueous solution is neutral , and , as will be seen below , is remarkably stable at a low temperature .
On addition of alkalis , hydrogen * 4 Ber .
, ' vol. 37 , p. 515 ( 1904 ) .
t 4 Journ. Amer .
Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 29 , p. 1227 ( 1907 ) .
494 Dr. H. J. H. Fenton .
Dimethylenediol is immediately evolved .
The freshly prepared solution gives , at first , only the faintest possible yellow colour with titanic acid , but the colour slowly develops on standing .
With chromic acid and ether , the indication of hydrogen dioxide is very slight , and with potassium iodide , in presence of dilute sulphuric acid , iodine is only very slowly and incompletely liberated .
Rimini 's phenylhydrazine and nitroprusside reagent gives only a feeble indication of formaldehyde , and SchifFs magenta reagent gives an entirely negative result .
If , however , the aqueous solution is mixed with a little platinum black , a rapid catalytic decomposition ensues ; the resulting solution has then a strong odour of formaldehyde and gives all the reactions of this substance with intensity .
The analysis of the compound by combustion presented , as might be expected , exceptional difficulties owing to its explosive character and its behaviour when warmed with cupric oxide or with inert powders .
Eventually , however , the combustion was successfully carried out by keeping the substance in the combustion tube at a temperature only just above its melting point , by means of a carefully regulated current of hot air , for about 20 to 30 minutes .
Under these conditions , decomposition takes place with evolution of gas but without explosion , and the temperature is only allowed to rise when the liquid has all disappeared ; a piece of platinum wire placed in the boat suitably accelerates the decomposition .
For analysis , the substance was recrystallised from anhydrous ether and kept in a vacuum desiccator .
0*1770 substance gave 0*1696 C02 and 0*1015 H20 .
C = 26*13 , H = 6*36 per cent. The formula 2H.CH0.H202 requires\#151 ; C , 25*55 ; H , 6*38 per cent. Confirmation of this formula was afforded by gasometric determination of the hydrogen evolved by the action of alkalis .
It will be observed that the relation of the constituents is that required by the equation of Blank and Finkenbeiner quoted above .
I. 0*1628 grm. substance treated with 25 c.c. of 2FT .
KOH gave 36*5 c.c. of hydrogen ( corr .
) .
Theory requires 38*7 c.c. II .
0*0697 grm. substance gave 15*9 c.c. of hydrogen ( corr .
) .
Theory requires 16*6 c.c. The results were just the same if an excess of hydrogen dioxide was previously added .
From these results there is every probability that the compound is identical with that which Legler obtained , in 1881 , by the slow oxidation of ether in contact with slightly glowing platinum foil.* The products of this * 4 Ber .
, ' vol. 14 , p. 602 ( 1881 ) , and vol. 18 , p. 3343 ( 1885 ) .
Peroxide ( Diformal Peroxide Hydrate ) .
495 4| reaction were found to be acetaldehyde , acetic acid , formic acid , formaldehyde , hydrogen dioxide , and a crystalline compound to which the author first assigned the formula C11H33O21 .
Later , however , from measurement of its decomposition products , he concluded that the formula was ( CB^O^.Os 4- 3H20 , and he called it hexahydroxymethylene peroxide .
Nef* afterwards obtained a direct compound of hydrogen dioxide and benzaldehyde , to which he assigned the formula 02(CHPh.0H)2 , and he concluded that Legler 's compound was similarly constituted .
Baeyerf obtained a similar compound from hydrogen dioxide and chloral ; he showed also that hydrogen dioxide , ammonia , and formaldehyde react to produce hexahydroxymethylene-diamine , a compound which Legler had previously prepared from his product referred to above .
Since Legler 's compound has been comparatively little studied and its composition and constitution have been only indirectly determined , it appeared of interest to make a more detailed examination of the compound obtained by the direct process mentioned above .
The molecular weight was determined by the cryoscopic method , using acetic acid and water as solvents .
Solvent .
Solute .
Depression .
Molecular weight .
In Acetic Acid .
I 17 -07 0T159 j 0 :315 83 '8 II 17 *07 0 -3162 0 -795 90 *8 III 17 -07 0 *5840 i 1 '410 94 *6 In Water .
IY 14 *98 O *5387 0'75 90-1 V 14 60 0 *6645 0*925 92 '5 Theory for H4Co02.H20o = 94 .
In order to ascertain the stability of the compound in water another determination was made ; the solution was then allowed to stand in melting-ice , and the freezing point again determined after 24 and 48 hours ; the results were as follows:\#151 ; ' VI .
0*3459 grm. of substance in 16*74 grm. of water gave , on dissolution , a depression of 0*425 ' ( M.W. = 9L ) .
After 24 hours the depression was 0*470 , and after 48 hours 0*480 .
This difference is altogether insignificant , * 4 Annalen , ' vol. 298 , p. 202 ( 1897 ) .
t ' Ber .
, ' vol. 33 , p. 2479 ( 1900 ) .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; A. 496 Dr. H. J. H. Fenton .
Dimethylenediol and it may be concluded that the compound exists practically unchanged at 0 ' , at any rate during this interval of time .
If the temperature is allowed to rise to that of the laboratory , a considerable increase occurs ; thus , the same solution , kept at the ordinary temperature for 48 hours more , gave a total depression of 0*645 , corresponding to calculated molecular weight of 60 .
This result may , of course , be due to partial dissociation , or , more probably , to interaction of the constituents giving rise to formic acid .
A further experiment was made in order to ascertain whether a change in molecular concentration occurred after the catalytic destruction of the potential hydrogen dioxide by means of platinum black .
VII .
0'2447 grm. substance in 13*97 grm. of water gave a depression of 0*37 ' ( M.W. = 89 ) .
About \ grm. of platinum black was then added to the solution , and the mixture was allowed to stand for 24 hours .
The total depression was then 0*395 ' .
This difference being not much beyond the limits of experimental error , it may be concluded that the total number of molecules in solution is practically unaltered after the hydrogen dioxide has been eliminated .
The solution obtained in this way appears to be pure formaldehyde , and the result could be explained by assuming that it exists in the dimeric form .
According to Auerbach and Barschall , however , * formaldehyde in aqueous solution , whether prepared from the gas or from the polymerides , is an equilibrium mixture of the trimeric and monomeric forms , or their hydrates , the proportions being dependent on the temperature and concentration ; the above result could , of course , be accounted for in this way .
It is probable that this method may be found to be of service for the rapid preparation of pure aqueous solutions of formaldehyde ; the catalytic decomposition takes place very rapidly if the solution is gently warmed , but a purer product is obtained if the operation is carried out at 0 ' .
The behaviour of the solid substance on exposure to light has only been partially studied .
When kept for a month in the dark , in a tube closed with cotton wool , the substance was unchanged in appearance , but had lost about 1 per cent , of its weight .
A corresponding experiment was made in bright sunlight , and in this case the substance became partially liquefied after some days , and gave a strongly acid solution .
Exposed to bright sunlight in a sealed tube , it behaved similarly ; the gas evolved was hydrogen , containing some carbon dioxide , and the solution was strongly acid .
Probably , however , the change is more complex than the mere resolution into formic acid and hydrogen , since the liquid , on acidification , gives a decided fruity odour resembling acetaldehyde .
* ' Chem. Centr .
, ' vol. 2 , p. 1081 ( 1905 ) .
Peroxide ( Diformal Peroxide Hydrate ) .
497 If the crystals are exposed to light in an open watch-glass , they show no tendency to liquefy ; after a few days they become opaque , owing to finely dispersed gas bubbles , and the crystals then begin to decrepitate in a remarkable way , the smaller crystals being projected about in all directions .
Even after six weeks ' exposure in this manner , the crystals still give aldehyde and peroxide reactions .
Constitution .
Several compounds of organic substances with hydrogen dioxide have been prepared and are usually regarded as containing " hydrogen dioxide of crystallisation."* The nature of such a combination is assumed to be analogous to that of water of crystallisation ; one would expect therefore that the compounds would show a readiness to dissociate into their constituents .
Since the compound described in the present communication remains undissociated when dissolved in solvents such as water and acetic acid , it would not appear to belong to this class , and its constitution is more appropriately represented by a structural formula such as that suggested by N " of , namely:\#151 ; .
ch2.oh I 0 I 0 ch2oh In order to obtain confirmatory evidence of this , an attempt was made to prepare the benzoyl derivative .
The compound was dissolved in water , cooled by ice , and treated with benzoyl chloride and sodium hydroxide according to the Baumann-Schotten method .
A soft solid product was thus obtained which hardens when dried on filter paper .
It was dried over sulphuric acid and solid potash , washed repeatedly with small quantities of anhydrous ether , recrystallised from this solvent , in which it is sparingly soluble , and kept in a vacuum desiccator .
The product crystallises in octahedra and melts at about 103 ' .
When heated a little above this temperature it decomposes with explosion , giving yellow vapours .
Analysis of this product , and its general properties , show that it is benzoyl \peroxide , so that the experiment is merely confirmatory of the peroxide character of the original substance .
* Compare , for example , Tanatar , ' Chem. Centr .
, ' vol. 2 , p. 583 ( 1908 ) .
498 Dimethylenediol Peroxide ( .DPeroxide Hydrate ) .
Summary and Conclusions .
Formaldehyde and hydrogen dioxide combine together directly when a mixture of their solutions is concentrated in vacuo , to form a definite crystalline compound having the molecular formula 2 H.CH0.H202 .
This compound shows unexpected stability ; it undergoes little , if any , change when kept in the dark at the ordinary temperature , and it dissolves unchanged in water or acetic acid .
It gives the normal molecular weight by the cryo-scopic method , and this value , in aqueous solution , is not changed after 48 hours at 0 ' .
The crystals are explosive when heated to about 70 ' and they take fire in contact with reduced iron or platinum black .
They undergo slow decomposition when exposed to bright sunlight .
Treatment of the aqueous solution with platinum black causes a rapid decomposition of the potential hydrogen dioxide and a pure solution of formaldehyde remains .
The general behaviour of the substance leads to the conclusion that it is not one containing hydrogen dioxide of crystallisation , and is rather to be regarded as an " atomic " compound in the ordinary sense of the term .
There seems to be no doubt that the compound is identical with that which Legler , in 1881 , obtained amongst the products of slow oxidation of ether .

