VII .
An Account of the Extraordinary METEOR seen all over England , on the 19th of March 1718/ 9 .
With a Demonstration of the uncommon Height thereof .
By Edm .
Halley , LL. D. and Secretary to the Royal Society .
THIS wonderful luminous Meteor which was seen in the Heavens on the 19th of March last , as it was matter of Surprise and Astonishment to the Vulgar Spectator , so it afforded no less Subject of Enquiry and Entertainment to the speculative and curious in Physical things : Some of its Phenomenon being exceeding hard to account for , according to the Notions hitherto received by our Naturalists ; such are the very great Height thereof above the Earth ; the vast Quantity of the Matter thereof ; the extravagant Velocity wherewith it moved ; and the prodigious Explosions thereof heard at so great a Distance , whose Sound , attended with a very sensible Tremour of the subject Air , was certainly propagated through a Medium incredibly rare and next to a Vacuum .
In Num. 341 .
of these Transactions .
I have collected what I could find of such-like Meteors , and since , turning over the Ephemerides of Kepler , I accidentally hit upon another , prior to all those there described , and which was seen all over Germany .
Of this the Words of Kepler are : Die 7/ 17 Nov. 1623 .
Meteorum ignitum , Globus ardens ab occasu in ortum volans tota passim Germania fuit conspectus .
In Austria etiam fragorem exauditum affirmarunt quasi a fulmine ; quod vanum tamen puto : nihil enim tale confirmant descriptiones quae extant .
Yet neither this , nor any of the other hitherto described , seem to come up in any Circumstance to this late Appearance ; of which I am in hopes to give a satisfactory Account , being enabled by the very many Relations thereof communicated to the Royal Society , from most parts of the Kingdom ; tho ' it was not my good Fortune to see it my self ; and tho ' very few of our Countrymen who best know the Stars , had better luck .
Some of the most perfect Descriptions we have received are the following : First , Our very worthy Vice-President Sir Hans Sloan , Baronet , being abroad at that time , happened to have his Eyes turned towards it , in its very first Eruption ; and the next Day he was pleased to give me in Writing what he had with great Exactness noted about it , in the Terms following : ` ` On Thursday , March 19 .
1718/ 19~ passing along Eastward by the N E. Corner of Southampton-street in Bloomsbury-Square , London , at about a Quarter after Eight at Night , I was surprised to see a sudden great Light , much beyond that of the Moon , which shone then very bright .
I turned to the Westward where the Light was ; which I apprehended at first to be artificial Fire-works or Rockets .
The first place I observed it in , was about the Pleiades Northerly , whence it moved after the manner , but more slowly than a falling Star , in a seeming direct Line , descending a little beyond , and ~ below , the Stars in Orion 's Belt then in the S. W. The long Stream appeared to me to be ~ about the middle , and the Meteor in its way turned Pearfashion 'd or tapering upwards .
At the lower end it came at last to be bigger and Spherical , tho ' it was not so big as the Full Moon .
The Colour of it was whitish , with an eye of Blue , of a most vivid dazzling Lustre , which seemed in Brightness very nearly to resemble , if not surpass that of the Body of the Sun in a clear Day , beheld by the naked Eye This Brightness obliged me to turn my Eyes ( which had their Pupils adapted to the Light of the Moon ) from it several times , as well when it was a Stream .
as when it was Pear-fashion 'd and a Globe : tho ' I had a great Curiosity to observe it with Attention ~ seemed to move in about half a Minute or less , about the Length of 20o , and to go out as ~ guessed , about as much above the Horizon .
There was left behind it , where it had passed , a Track of a cloudy or faint reddish Yellow Colour , such as red-hot Iron or glowing Coals have , which remained more than a Minute , seemed to sparkle , and kept its Place without falling .
This Track was interrupted , or had a Chasm towards its upper end , at about two Thirds of its Length .
I did not hear any Noise it made , but the place where the Globe of Light had been , remained after it was extinct , of the same reddish Yellow Colour with the Stream for some time , and at first some Sparks seemed to issue from it , such as come from red-hot Iron beaten on an Anvil .
The Surprise , Brightness of the Light , and Noise of the People upon the Variations of the Appearance , calling to one another to observe what they never had observed in their Days , and thought to be prodigious , hindered me from taking notice or remembring any thing farther about it .
It were to be wished that Sir Hans had more especially regarded the Situation of the Track of this Meteor among the sixt Stars , and let us know how much it past above the Pleiades , and how much under the Belt of Orion , that so we might with more Certainty have determined its Position in respect of the Horizon of London ; for which purpose the whole Number of Spectators there has not furnished us with one sufficient Observation .
But all the Relations , however otherwise differing , agree in this , that the Splendour was little inferior to that of the Sun ; that within doors the Candles gave no manner of Light , and in the Streets not only all the Stars disappeared , but the Moon then Nine Days old , and high near the Meridian , the Sky being very clear , was so far effaced as to be scarce seen , at least not to cast a Shade , even where the Beams of the Meteor were intercepted by the Houses : so that for some few Seconds of Time , in all respects it resembled perfect Day .
The Time when this happened was generally reckoned at a quarter past Eight ; but by the more accurate Account of the Rev. Mr. Pound ( who only saw the Light ) agreeing with what has been sent us from the Parisian Observatory , it appears to have been at 8h 8 ' apparent Time at London .
And the Sun being then in 91/ 2 gr. of Aries , the Right Ascension of the Mid-Heaven was 130 gr. 45 ' , whereby the Position of the Sphere of fixed Stars is given .
Hence the Lucida Pleiadum will be found at that time to have been 25 1/ 4 gr. high , in an Azimuth 6 gr. to the Northward of the West , and consequently the Arch the Meteor moved in , was inclined to the Horizon with an Angle of about 27 gr. having its Node or Intersection therewith , nearly South South West ; as will be more evident by what follows .
At Oxford five Minutes earlier , Mr. John Whiteside , R. S. Soc. Keeper of the Ashmole Museum , and very skilful in both Mathematical and Physical Matters , immediately after the Extinction of the Meteor , made haste out to see what it might be , and well considered the Situation of the Track it had left in the Sky : He found it to have past about 1 1/ 2 Degree above the preceding Shoulder of Orion , and about 3 1/ 2 gr. above the middle of his Belt , where there appeared a luminous Nubecula of a reddish Light , being a Dilatation of the Track , seeming to have been occasioned by some Explosion there ; and by what he could learn from those that saw it , it was thereabout that it broke out , and first began to efface the Stars .
Hence it proceeded as to sense in an Arch of a great Circle , and passing in the middle between the Tail of Lepus ( ~ Bayero ) and ~ in the Fore-Foot of Canis major , it terminated about ~ in the Breast of the same , nearly in 95 gr. of Right-Ascension , with 23 gr. South Declination : and at the place of its Extinction there remained a large whitish Nebula , much broader and of a stronger Light than the rest of the Track , which he took for a certain Indication of a very great Explosion made there .
By Computation it will be found that the Angle this Track made with the Horizon of Oxford was nearest 40 gr. and its Intersection due SS W ; and that the place of its Extinction was about 9 gr. above the Horizon , in the Azimuth of 32 gr. to the West .
At Worcester Mr. Nicolas Fatio , a Person greatly skilled in Astronomical Affairs , saw this Meteor descend obliquely towards the South , making an Angle with the Horizon of about 65o , and intersecting it about SSW 1/ 2 S , as may be collected from a Scheme thereof sent up by him , and communicated to the Royal Society , seeming to be designed with sufficient Exactness .
By this the Track left all Orion and Canis major to the Westward , and divided the Distance between Sirius and Procyon , so as to be almost twice as far from Procyon as Sirius .
The Time here was one Minute before Eight , this City being about 9 ' of Time to the West of London , and consequently the Right-Ascension of the Mid Heaven 1281/ 2 gr. Now the Situation of the three Cities London , Oxford , and Worcester being nearly on the same W.N.W. Point , whereon the Track of the Meteor had its greatest Altitude above the Horizon , equal to the Angle of its visible Way ; if we suppose it at London to have been 27 gr. high , and at the same time at Worcester to be 65 gr. high , in the Plane of the Vertical Circle passing through London and Worcester ; supposing likewise the Distance between them to be 90 Geographical Miles , or one Degree and half of an Arch of a great Circle of the Earth , we shall by a Trigonometrical Calculus , too obvious to be here inserted , find the perpendicular Height to have been 64 such Miles ; and the Point over which it was then perpendicular to have been 30 such Miles W.N.W. from Worcester .
And the Geographical Mile to the English Statute Mile being as 23 to 20 , this Height will be no less than 73 1/ 2 English Miles .
The place also directly under it , will be found to be about Prestain on the Confines of Hereford and Radnor-Shires .
Nor can we be much out in this Determination , the Oxford Observation concurring nearly in the same Conclusion .
This Altitude being added to the Semidiameter of the Earth as Radius , becomes the Secant of Eleven Degrees , so that the Meteor might be seen above the Horizon in all Places not more than 220 Leagues distant from it .
Whence it will not be strange that it should be seen over all Parts of the Islands of Great Britain and Ireland , over all Holland and the hither Parts of Germany , France and Spain , at one and the same instant of Time This suggests a very great use that might be made of these momentaneous ~ , to determine the Geographical Longititudes of Places .
For if in any two Places two Observers , by help of Pendulum Clocks duly corrected by Celestial Observation , do exactly note at what Hour , Minute and Second such a Meteor as this blows up and is extinguished , the Difference of those Times will be the Difference of Longitude of the two Places , as is well known .
Nor does it require so much as the Use of a Telescope , as in the Methods hitherto put in practice for that purpose ; so that if these Appearances could be predicted , and Notice given of their coming , that we might know when to expect them , I should make no Difficulty to prefer this way of settling the Geography of a Country before all others .
Having thus fixed one Point in the Line of its Motion , let us now consider what course the Meteor took from thence .
And first at the Town of KirkbyStephens , on the Borders of Torkshire and Westmoreland , in a Meridian very little to the Westward of Worcester , but about 2 1/ 2 gr. more to the North , it was observed to break out as from a dusky Cloud , directly under the Moon , and from thence to descend , nearly in a Perpendicular , almost to the Horizon .
Now the Moon , being at that time in the third Degree of Leo , was about half an hour past the Meridian , and consequently much about a point to the West , or Sb W : and the situation of Prestian from Kirby-Stevens being sufficiently near upon the same Point , it follows that the Direction of the Track of the Meteor was according to the Great Circle passing over those two Places .
And this is further confirmed by the Observation of Sam Cruuys , Esq ; Reg. Soc. Soc. who at Tiverton , about twelve Geographical Miles nearly due North from Exeter , observed the first Explosion of this Meteor exactly in his Zenith , as he was assured by applying his Eye to the side of his Door , which he took to be perpendicular , and looking upwards : And from thence he saw it descend to the Southwards directly in the same Azimuth , without declining either to the Right or Left : Hence it is plain , that the Track likewise passed over this place , which by our best Maps is found to lie in a Line with Prestain and ~-Stevens with sufficient Exactness ; so that we shall take it for granted that this was the very Course it held .
On this Supposition , that the first Explosion attended with the reddish Nubecula , was directly over Tiverton , we have the Oxford Observation to compare with it , in order to determine more nicely the perpendicular Altitude there .
At Oxford this Nubecula was found to be 3 1/ 2 gr. above the middle Star of Orion 's Girdle , at 8h 3 ' , and was therefore 26 1/ 2 gr above the Horizon ; and the Distance between Oxford and Tiverton , being 1o .
55 ' or 115 Geographical Miles , it will be as the Sine of 61o .
35 ' to the Sine of 63o 30 ' So the Semidiameter of the Earth being 3437 ~ such Miles , to ~ Miles the Distance of the Meteor from the Center of the Earth ; from which deducting the Semidiameter , there remains 60 1/ 4 Geographical Miles for the Height of the Meteor above Tiverton : And that this was so is confirmed by the Observation of the Rev. Mr. Will .
Derham , who at Windsor saw the aforesaid Nubecula about two Degrees above the most Southerly of the Seven Stars in the Shield of Orion ; that is ( the Time being 8h 6 ' ) in the Altitude of 23 1/ 2 gr. whence , the Distance between Tiverton and Windsor being ~ measured Miles , or 130 Geographical~ by a like Proportion we shall find the same Height of the Meteor 60 such Miles wanting only one Quarter .
So that in a round Number we may conclude it to have been just 60 Geographic or 69 Statute Miles above the Earth 's Surface .
Nor is it possible to come at a precise Determination of this matter , by reason of the Coarseness and Inaccuracy of our Data , which were only the Notes of Persons under the Surprise of the suddenness of the Light , and no ways pretending to Exactness ; however , such as they are , they abundantly evince the Height thereof to have exceeded 60 English Miles , not to say 38 or 40 , as some would ~ have it .
I was unwilling to leave off , till I had pitched upon some Hypothesis that might subject the Motion of this Meteor to a Calculus , that the Curious might be able to compute the visible way thereof , either in respect of the Horizon or among the fixed Stars : This I found might be done with tolerable Exactness , supposing that it moved in the Arch of a Circle concentrick with the Earth , but 60 Geogr .
Miles without it ; and that the Point of the first Explosion was over the Lat. of 50o 40~ and 3o 40~ to the West of London ; and that of the last Extinction over Lat. 47o .
40 ' with 4o .
50 ' West Longitude : The Time being fixed to 8 Minutes past Eight at London .
Hence it will be easy , by a Trigonometrical Process , to obtain the visible Altitude and Azimuth of the Meteor at either of its Explosions , as seen from any Place whose Longitude and Latitude is known ; and from the Time given , the Points in the Sphere of Stars answering to those Azimuths and Altitudes are readily deduced .
Let those that contend for a much less Height of this Meteor try if they can on such their Supposition reconcile the several Phenomenon before recited with one another , and with the Observation of the Rev. Mr. William Ella , Rector of Rampton in Nottinghamshire , between Gainsborough and Redford , which for its Exactness I must not omit .
Here at 8h 5 ' the Meteor was seen to pass precisely in the middle between Sirius and the Fore-Foot of Canis major , moving obliquely to the Southward , in a Line whose Direction seemed to be from the middle between the two Shoulders of Orion .
The Latitude of the place being nearly ~ , 20 ' , and Longitude West from London 0o~ 45'~ Let them try how they can account for its being seen five Degrees high at Aberdeen in Scotland , and near as much at Peterhead half a Degree more Northerly : and then they will be better able to judge whether it did not exceed the reputed Limits of our Atmosphere .
Lastly , if the apparent Altitude of the Meteor at Paris was not 5 1/ 2 but 11 ~ .
on the WbN Point , when it must have been in its greatest Lustre , there will be no pretence to bring it lower than I have made it , especially if it be allowed to have follow 'd the Track I have assigned it , over Prestain , Cardiff , Minhead , Tiverton , and Breast in Bretany .
Allowing this to have been the Path it moved in , it would be easy to assign the real Magnitude and Velocity of this Meteor , if the several Accounts of its apparent Diameter , and of the Time of its Passage from one of its Explosions to the other , were consistent with themselves .
But some of them making its visible Appearance nearly equal to the Sun 's , which in the Opinion of many it far exceeded , we may suppose with the least that , at the time when it first broke out over Tiverton , its Diameter was half a Degree .
And its Horizontal Distance being 150 Geogr .
Miles from London , and its Altitude 60 , the Hypothenusal or real Distance from the Eye will be more than 160 such Miles ; to which Radius the Subtense of half a Degree will be above an English Mile and half , being about 2800 Yards quamproxime .
After the same manner it is difficult to assign its due Velocity , whilst some make it half , others less than a quarter , of a Minute , in passing from its first Explosion to its last Extinction : But the Distance it moved in that time being about 3 gr. or 180 Geogr .
Miles , we may modestly compute it to have run above 300 such Miles in a Minute ; which is a Swiftness wholly incredible , and such , that if a heavy Body were projected horizontally with the same , it would not descend by its Gravity to the Earth , but would rather fly off , and move round its Center in a perpetual Orb , resembling that of the Moon .
Of several Accidents that were reported to have attended its Passage , many were the effect of pure Fancy ; such as the hearing it hiss as it went along , as if it had been very near at hand : others imagined they felt the Warmth of its Beams ; and some there were that thought , at least wrote , that they were scalded by it .
But what is certain , and no way to be disputed , is the wonderful Noise that follow 'd its Explosion .
All Accounts from Devon and Cornwal and the neighbouring Counties are unanimous , that there was heard there , as it were the Report of a very great Cannon , or rather of a Broad side , at some distance , which was soon follow 'd by a rattling Noise , as if many smallArms had been promiscuously discharged .
What was peculiar to this Sound was , that it was attended with an uncommon Tremour of the Air , and every where in those Counties , very sensibly shook the Glass-Windows and Doors in the Houses , and according to some , even the Houses themselves , beyond the usual Effect of Cannon , though near ; and Mr. Cruwys at Tiverton , on this occasion , lost a Looking-Glass , that being loose in its Frame , fell out on the shock , and was broken .
Nor do we yet know the Extent of this prodigious Sound , which was heard , against the then Easterly Wind , in the Neighbourhood of London , as I am informed ; and by the Learned Dr. Tabor , who distinctly heard it beyond Lewis in Sussex : So that I cannot help thinking , that such a Meteor as this might have occasioned that famous Ode of Horace : Parcus Deorum cultor , &amp;c. Namque Diespiter Igne corusco nubila dividens Plerumque , per purum tonantes Egit equos volucremque currum , Quo bruta tellus , &amp;c. Concutitur But whether the Report heard near Lewis were of that Explosion right over Devonshire , or rather of that latter and much greater at the Extinction over Britany , I shall not undertake to determine , till we have some further Accounts from France , whence hitherto we have only had , that at Paris the Time of the Appearance was at 17 Minutes past Eight .
It remains to attempt something towards a Solution of the uncommon Phenomenon of this Meteor ; and by comparing them with things more familiar to us , to show at least how they might possibly be effected .
And first the unusual and continued Heats of the last Summer in these Parts of the World , may well be supposed to have excited an extraordinary Quantity of Vapour of all sorts ; of which the aqueous and most others , soon condensed by Cold , and wanting a certain Degree of Specific Gravity in the Air to buoy them up , ascend but to a small Height , and are quickly returned in Rain , Dews , &amp;c. whereas the inflammable sulphureous Vapours , by an innate Levity , have a sort of Vis centrifuga , and not only have no need of the Air to support them , but being agitated by Heat , will ascend in Vacuo Boileano , and sublime to the top of the Receiver , when most other Fumes fall instantly down , and lie like Water at the bottom ; the Experiment whereof was first shown me by the Reverend Mr. Whiteside at Oxford and was very lately made before the Royal Society .
By this we may comprehend how the matter of the Meteor might have been raised from a large Tract of the Earth 's Surface , and ascend far above the reputed Limits of the Atmosphere ; where , being disengaged from all other Particles , by that principle of Nature that congregates Homogenia visible in so many Instances , its Atoms might in length of time coalesce and run * fortuitously together , as we see Salts shoot in Water ; and gradually contracting themselves into a narrower compass , might like like a Train of Gunpowder in the Ether , till catching fire by some internal Ferment , as we find the Damps in Mines frequently do , the Flame would be communicated to its continued parts , and so run on like a Train fired .
This may explain how it came to move with so unconceivable a Velocity ; for if a continued Train of Powder were no bigger than a Barrel , it is not easy to say how very fast the Fire would fly alongst it ; much less can we imagine the Rapidity of the Accension of these more inflammable Vapours , lying in a Train of .
so vast a Thickness .
If this were the Case , as it is highly probable , it was not a Globe of Fire that ran along , but a successive kindling of new Matter : and as some parts of the Earth might emit these Vapours more copiously than others , this Train might in some parts thereof , be much denser and bigger than in others , which might occasion several smaller Explosions , as the Fire ran along it , besides the great ones which were like the blowing up of Magazines .
Thus we may account for the rattling Noise like small-Arms , heard after the great Bounce on the Explosion over Tiverton ; the Continuance of which for some time , argues that the Sound thereof came from Distances that increased .
What may be said to the Propagation of the Sound thro ' a Medium , according to the received Theory of the Air above 300000 times rare than what we breath , and as I said before , next to a Vacuum , I must confess I know not .
Hitherto we have concluded the Air to be the Vehicle of Sound ; and in our artificial Vacuum we find it greatly diminished : but we have this only Instance of the effect of an Explosion of a Mile or two diameter , the immensity of which may perhaps compensate the extreme Fineness of the Medium .
FINI S. * Del fortuitously .

