72 Dr. J. Stenhouse Chlorine- and [ Dec. 21 , spheric pressure .
It corrodes glass , fumes strongly in the air , and has a characteristic and very powerful dusty odour , not very unlike that of a mixture of chloride of sulphur and sulphurous anhydride .
Sulphur rapidly decomposed an aqueous solution of argentic fluoride .
Sulphurous anhydride passed over fluoride of silver at an incipient red heat , produced little or no decomposition of the silver-salt .
Vaporous fluoride of sulphur also produced no visible effect .
By passing the vapour of liquid chloride of sulphur over the fluoride in a state of fusion , chemical action occurred , a vapour was evolved which corroded glass and possessed a dusty odour , but did not condense to a liquid ; it was probably fluoride of sulphur .
The saline residue consisted of argentic chloride and sulphide .
A solution of argentic fluoride was decomposed by agitation with liquid chloride of sulphur , hydrofluoric acid being evolved , and argentic chloride and sulphide produced .
Argentic fluoride did not dissolve in bisulphide of carbon .
By passing the vapour of the latter substance over the silver-salt at a red heat , a chemical change took place , and a fuming acid vapour was evolved , in accordance with the following'tequation 4AgF+CS2=2Ag2S + CF4 .
A solution of bromine or iodine in bisulphide of carbon was rapidly decolorized by agitation with particles of argentic fluoride , and the liquid acquired the odour of tetrafluoride of carbon .
December 21,1871 .
GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the History of Orcin.\#151 ; No. II .
Chlorine- and Bromine-substitution Compounds of the Orcins .
" By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , P.R.S. , \amp ; c.* Received October 11 , 1871 .
Schunckf , and subsequently the author of this paper* , many years ago studied the action of chlorine upon orcin , and obtained more or less crystalline products , contaminated with a brown resinous matter , from which however , they did not succeed in separating the crystals in a state of purity .
In the year 1864 De Luynes S obtained a crystalline substance by acting on orcin with a mixture of potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid .
De Luynes states it to be trichlororcine , C7 Hs Cl3 Oa , and in Kekule 's * Benzol-derivate5 the melting-point is given at 159 ' .
* * * S * A preliminary notice of several of the compounds described in this paper appeared in the Chem. News , vol. xxiii .
p. 230 , and Zeits .
Chem. vol. vii .
p. 229 .
f Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. liv .
p. 271 . .
+ Phil. Trans. 1848 , p. 88 , and Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. lxvii .
p. 97 .
S Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. cxxx .
p. 34 ; KekultTs * Benzolderivate , ' vol. i. p. 388 .
1871.5 Bromine-substitution Chlororcin .
Pentachlororcin , C7 H3 Cls Oa.\#151 ; This compound was obtained by the action of chlorine upon orcin when the former was kept in excess .
Two methods of effecting this object were employed , \#151 ; the first by adding the orcin to chlorine hydrate , the other by the action of potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid .
A pulpy mixture of the crystalline hydrate of chlorine and water was first prepared by passing a current of chlorine , with occasional agitation , through water to which about one third of crushed ice had been added , until a sufficient quantity of the hydrate was formed .
On gradually adding a moderately strong aqueous solution of orcin , a purple colour was produced when the solution first came in contact with the chlorine hydrate , but disappeared immediately on agitation .
The addition of the orcin was continued until nearly all the chlorine hydrate was decomposed .
It was always advisable to leave a slight excess of the latter , as a purer product was then obtained , and also to have some crushed ice present in the mixture , to avoid decomposition and consequent loss of the hydrate by the heat produced during the reaction .
The colourless or pale yellow solution , on standing , yielded a crystalline deposit of crude pentachlororcin .
After many trials , however , it was found that pentachlororcin could generally be more conveniently prepared in quantity by submitting orcin to the chlorinating action of a mixture of hydrochloric acid and potassium chlorate in the following manner :\#151 ; Four parts of powdered potassium chlorate and a solution of two parts of orcin in seven parts of hydrochloric acid were added to 35 parts of hydrochloric acid , sp. gr. 1*17 , placed in a large beaker , and kept cool by immersion in water ; a small portion of the potassium chlorate was first added to the hydrochloric acid in the beaker ; on pouring in some of the solution of orcin , the same evanescent purple colour made its appearance as when chlorine hydrate was used ; the alternate addition of the chlorate and the orcin solution was continued in such a manner that there might always be an excess of chlorate , and that the contents of the beaker never became very hot .
It was found necessary to use concentrated hydrochloric acid in this experiment , as otherwise the product was largely contaminated with a viscid oily compound .
After twelve to twenty hours the crystalline chlororcin was collected and washed with a small quantity of water .
Orcin treated with chlorine hydrate yields nearly twice its weight of crude chlororcin , but with potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid about 150 per cent , of its weight .
In order to purify the crude chlororcin obtained by either of the above-described methods , it was dissolved when dry in a considerable quantity of carbon disulphide ( eight measures ) , filtered and concentrated by distillation ( to one half ) .
On being set aside for some time it usually crystallized out ; but as it exhibits strongly the phenomenon of supersaturation , especially when impure , it was sometimes necessary to agitate or add a crystal Dr. J. Stenhouse on - and [ Dec. of the substance .
The solution then immediately deposited the chlororcin , and occasionally became hot enough to cause ebullition of the carbon disul .
phide .
Two or three crystallizations rendered it quite pure .
Pentachlor-orcin crystallizes from carbon disulphide in large colourless prisms , melting at 120o,5 .
It is moderately soluble in bisulphide of carbon and benzol , and readily in ether .
It dissolves somewhat in cold alcohol , and when boiled with it for some time undergoes a change which I have not as yet investi-gated , \#151 ; water throwing down an oil which only solidifies after having been exposed to the air for some days in a shallow vessel .
The pentachlororcin is but very slightly soluble in water , to which , however , it communicates an exceedingly disagreeable and persistent bitter metallic flavour .
When boiled with water it is decomposed , an oil and a crystalline solid passing over with the vapour .
The oil , which has a peculiar odour , recalling that of chloropicrin , is heavier than water ; the solid compound crystallizes in needles , and is identical with the trichlororcin described below .
When heated with concentrated sulphuric acid it blackens and decomposes , giving off hydrochloric acid .
It dissolves in nitric acid by the aid of heat , and crystallizes out unchanged on cooling .
The addition of water to the solution precipitates the pentachlororcin .
By long boiling with the acid it is decomposed with evolution of nitrous fumes .
Analysis of Pentachlororcin .
I. *901 grm. substance gave *937 grm. carbonic anhydride and *096 grm. of water .
II .
*196 grm. substance gave *4/ 3 grm. argentic chloride .
III .
*360 grm. substance gave *871 grm. argentic chloride .
IV .
*229 grm. substance gave *555 grm. argentic chloride .
V. *202 grm. substance gave *488 grm. argentic chloride .
Theory .
I. II .
m. IV .
V. Mean .
c7 = 84 =28-33 28-36 . .
28-36 H3= 3 = 1-01 1-18 * .
1-18 Cl6=177-5=59-87 .
\#171 ; 59-70 59-85 59-96 59-75 59-82 O , = 32 =10-79 296-5 .
* . . . . . . . .
' V. was prepared by the action of potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid , I. , II .
, III .
, and IY .
by means of chlorine hydrate .
The substance was dried in vacuo .
Trichlororcin , C7 Ha Cl3 03.\#151 ; When pentachlororcin was heated with hydriodic acid to 100 ' it was decomposed , trichlororcin being formed and iodine set free .
1 he best method of conducting the operation , so as to obtain a pure product , was to add the pentachlororcin in small portions to a mixture of amorphous phosphorus and hydriodic acid , containing eight or ten per cent , of iodine , and to digest between each addition until 1871 .
] Bromine-substitution Compounds of the Orcins .
the liberated iodine had been reconverted into hydriodic acid .
When all the pentachlororcin had been introduced , the digestion was continued until the trichlororcin appeared as a colourless oily layer at the bottom of the flask .
On cooling , a considerable portion more crystallized out of the hydriodic acid in colourless needles .
The oily trichlororcin , which solidified on cooling , was dissolved in a small quantity of spirit , filtered to separate it from the excess of amorphous phosphorus , and the alcoholic solution precipitated by water .
The amount of crude product thus obtained was about 75 per cent , of the weight of the pentachlororcin originally employed .
One or two crystallizations from boiling water slightly acidified with acetic acid rendered it quite pure .
If very pure pentachlororcin had not been employed in the preparation the crude product was more or less coloured , and could only be purified with considerable difficulty , as the colouring-matter adheres to the trichlororcin with great obstinacy .
It was found , however , that several alternate crystallizations from benzol and petroleum-oil , and a final crystallization from water , almost entirely removed the brown colouring-matter .
It fuses to an oil under boiling water , in which it is moderately soluble , crystallizing out almost completely on cooling in long colourless transparent needles , which become white and opaque when exposed to the air .
It is but sparingly soluble in carbon disulphide , moderately in petroleum-oil , rather more so in benzol , and excessively soluble in ether and alcohol .
It is soluble in boiling glacial acetic acid , and crystallizes out on cooling in thin transparent plates , which become white and opaque on the addition of water .
Trichlororcin melts at 123 ' , and when heated to a very much higher temperature it blackens and gives off hydrochloric acid , even under diminished pressure .
It cannot , therefore , be distilled in vacuo , but it passes over readily with the vapour of water .
When heated for several hours to 180 ' with moderately strong hydriodic acid and phosphorus , it was found to be reconverted into orcin , which could be extracted from the solution by agitating it with ether .
The addition of alcoholic ammonia to a solution of the trichlororcin in alcohol threw down a white crystalline precipitate , but slightly soluble in water or alcohol .
This compound , when dissolved in a large excess of dilute aqueous ammonia , and submitted to the action of metallic zinc in a close vessel at the ordinary temperature , yielded a colourless solution .
On exposing this to the air , however , it acquired a fine blue colour , which was changed to red by the action of acids .
Further investigation will no doubt show the nature of this compound .
Analysis of Trichlororcin .
I. *257 grm. substance gave *486 grm. argentic chloride .
II .
*302 grm. substance gave *572 grm. argentic chloride .
III .
*216 grm. substance gave '293 grm. carbonic anhydride and *046 grin , water .
Dr. J. Stenhouse Chlorine- and [ Dec. 21 , Theory .
I. II .
III .
Mean .
C7 = 84 =36-93 , \#171 ; 37-00 37-00 H6= 5 = 2-20 . .
2-37 2-37 Cl3= 106-5 = 46-81 46-78 46-86 . .
46-82 Oa= 32 =14-06 . .
227*5 100-00 I. was from the pentachlororcin prepared by the action of chlorine hydrate on orcin ; II .
and III .
from that prepared by hydrochloric acid and potassium chlorate .
The substance was dried vacuo .
This trichlororcin differs considerably in its melting-point and other properties from that described by De Luynes * as formed by the action of hydrochloric acid and potassium chlorate on orcin .
Moreover , although many attempts were made to prepare trichlororcin by his method with varying proportions of the materials , pentachlororcin was invariably obtained , contaminated , however , in some instances , with a large amount of viscid oily impurities .
I conclude , therefore , that De Luynes 's trichlororcin was either isomeric with that above described , or that it was an impure substance .
Bromorcin .
Pentabromorcin , C7H3Br6Oa.\#151 ; This compound was readily formed by the action of an excess of bromine on orcin .
Seven parts of bromine and about 200 of water were placed in a stoppered bottle , and a moderately strong aqueous solution of one part of orcin added by small portions , with constant agitation .
The yellow crystalline product thus obtained , amounting to 3/ 0 per cent , of the weight of the orcin , was then collected , and purified by repeated crystallization from carbon disulphide , in a manner similar to the corresponding chlorine compound .
It is almost insoluble in water , very soluble in alcohol and ether , and moderately so in benzol and carbon disulphide , from the latter of which it may be obtained in very large and almost colourless transparent crystals .
It melts at 126 ' , and when * boiled with water appears to undergo a decomposition similar to the pentachlororcin .
Heated with concentrated sulphuric acid it gradually dissolves , and on continuing the heat hydrobromic acid and bromine are evolved in abundance .
Like the corresponding chlorine compound , it dissolves in hot nitric acid , crystallizing out again on cooling , but is at the same time far more readily decomposed .
When boiled with amorphous phosphorus and moderately strong hydriodic acid it is rapidly decomposed , and passes into solution probably as orcin .
With very weak hydriodic acid , however , containing about one per cent , of iodine and excess of amorphous phosphorus , the decomposition takes place more gradually , and a heavy oily layer is obtained , which solidifies on cooling .
This , after purification , was * Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. cxxx .
p. 34 ; Kekule 's ' Benzoiderivate , ' vol. i. p. 388 .
77 .
*cl 1871 ] Bromine-substitution Compounds of the Orcins .
found to be identical with the tribromorcin described by Stenhouse * , and subsequently examined by Laurent and Gerhardt f , and by Lamparter % .
Analysis of Pen I. *578 substance gave ,1*046 argentic bromide , which is equivalent to 77*00 per cent , bromine , the formula C7H3Br503 requiring 77*07 per cent. | Pentachlororcin hypochlorite , C7 H4 Cl6 03 = C7 H3 Cl5 02 , H Cl O.\#151 ; A j white crystalline substance was obtained in endeavouring to prepare pentachlororcin by the action of calcium hypochlorite and hydrochloric acid on orcin ; but as it appeared to differ somewhat from that compound it was carefully examined .
After some trials the following was found to be the best method of preparation :\#151 ; Five parts of orcin were dissolved in a mixture of four measures of hydrochloric acid , sp. gr. 1*17 , with four measures of water ; and this solution was then gradually added to a moderately strong clear solution of calcium hypochlorite , taking care to leave the latter in excess .
The liquid , which has a milky appearance , was then strongly acidulated with hydrochloric acid , and allowed to stand 24 hours , when it deposited a considerable quantity of white crystals .
These were collected , dried , and purified by crystallization from benzol , as , unlike pentachlororcin , they are but sparingly soluble in carbon disulphide .
When pure it crystallizes in transparent prisms of great dispersive power .
It is very soluble in ether , moderately so iii light petroleum-oil , and almost insoluble in water .
When heated with hydriodic acid and phosphorus it is decomposed , but apparently without the formation of trichlororcin .
It is very soluble in alcohol , and after boiling the solution for some time the addition of water causes the precipitation of an oil , which solidifies if exposed to the air for a few days .
When the substance is boiled with water the latter becomes milky , and gives off pungent vapours .
The hypochlorite dissolves in hot nitric acid , and crystallizes out on cooling ; hot concentrated sulphuric acid decomposes it .
It has a considerably higher melting-point than pentachlororcin , namely 140'*5 .
The following results were obtained by analysis:\#151 ; I. *272 grm. substance gave *240 grm. carbonic anhydride and *033 grm. / water .
II .
*274 grm. substance gave *242 grm. carbonic anhydride and *032 grm. water .
III .
*257 grm. substance gave *633 grm. argentic bromide .
IV .
*147 grm. substance gave *361 grm. argentic bromide .
* Phil. Trans. 1848 , p. 87 .
t Ann. Chim .
Phys. [ 3 ] vol. xxiv .
p. 317 .
| Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. cxxxiv .
p. 257 .
Dr. J. Stenhouse on - and [ Dec. 21 , Theory .
I. II .
III .
IV .
Mean .
C7 = 84= 24-07 24-06 24-08 . .
24-07 H4= 4= 1*15 1-31 1-34 .
* . .
1-32 C16=213= 61-03 \#171 ; . . .
60-94 60*75 60-85 03 = 48= 13-75 349 100-00 * . . .
* . . . . .
The rational formula deduced from the percentage composition of the substance is C7 H4 Cl6 03 ; and I propose to give it the provisional name of pentachlororcin hypochlorite , C7H3C1502 , HCIO , until its constitution is more satisfactorily made out by an examination of the products of its decomposition .
Chlorresorcin .
Pentachlorresorcin , C6HC1502.\#151 ; An attempt was made to obtain a chlorresorcin by submitting resorcin to the action of chlorine hydrate in a manner similar to that which had been so successfully employed in preT paring pentachlororcin ; but the results obtained were unsatisfactory , ' the product being very small in comparison to the resorcin taken , and even that so contaminated with oily impurities that further examination was deemed inexpedient .
The action of potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid , however , gave a much more favourable result .
Five parts of potassium chlorate and a solution of two parts of resorcin in eight of hydrochloric acid were gradually added to forty parts of hydrochloric acid , which was prevented from becoming very hot by immersion in cold water .
The operation was conducted in a manner similar to that previously described in the preparation^ pentachlororcin ; but more care was required to obtain a successful result , and the amount of product was comparatively small , about 70 per cent , of the resorcin .
The crystalline compound which is deposited on standing was collected , and , after being simply pressed to remove some of the mother-liquor , boiled with a considerable quantity of carbon disulphide .
The supernatant aqueous layer was then separated by means of a separating-funnel , and the greater portion of the carbon disulphide removed by distillation .
When sufficiently concentrated the anhydrous chlorresorcin crystallized out in brilliant colourless plates or flattened prisms .
One or two recrystallizations rendered it pure .
The crude product of the action of the chlorate and hydrochloric acid on resorcin appeared to consist principally of a hydrate of the chlorresorcin , as when it was rapidly heated for a short time with a comparatively small proportion of carbon disulphide , and the solution filtered , it deposited a white crystalline compound in minute scales , sparingly soluble in the disulphide .
On submitting the solution to distillation , however , to remove the excess of carbon disulphide , water passed over with the latter , and the solution , when sufficiently concentrated , deposited large crystals of the anhydrous substance .
Pure pentachlorresorcin is colourless , and melts at 92'-5 .
It is moderately soluble in warm water , 1871-1 Bromine-substitution Compounds of the 79 from which it separates , on cooling , in a white opaque mass of indistinct crystals , apparently the hydrate .
It is readily soluble in carbon disulphide , benzol , and petroleum-oil , and very solnble in alcohol and ether .
Analysis of the Chlorresorcin .
I. *476 grin , substance gave *447 grin , carbonic anhydride and *020 grm. II .
-308 grin , substance gave *289 grm. carbonic anhydride and *013 grm. III .
*193 grm. substance gave *490 grm. argentic chloride .
IV .
*259 grm. substance gave *659 grm. argentic chloride .
H CL Theory .
72 = 25*49 1 = 0*35 =177*5= 62*84 = 32 = 11*32 I. II .
III .
IV .
Mean .
25*56 0*47 25*60 0*47 62*81 62*95 25*58 0*47 62*88 . . . . . .
282*5 100*00 The results of the analysis correspond very nearly to the formula C H Cl O , that of pentachlorresorcin .
This somewhat anomalous composition was , however , confirmed by the analyses of the corresponding bromine compound .
Bromresorcin .
Pentabromresorcin , C6HBr6 Oa.\#151 ; This compound was prepared by adding resorcin solution to a mixture of bromine and water , in a manner similar to that employed in the preparation of pentabromorcin .
It is , however , advantageous to use considerably less water ( about one fifth ) , and to moderate the heat produced during the reaction by occasionally immersing the bottle in cold water .
Two or three^crystallizations from carbon disulphide serve to purify the product , which then forms large colourless or faintly yellow prismatic crystals .
The pure pentabromresorcin melts at 113'-5 .
It is almost insoluble in water , but readily soluble in ether and alcohol , from the latter of which it is precipitated on the addition of water. .
It is also moderately soluble in cold benzol and in hot petroleum-oil , fro\#153 ; which it crystallizes out in great part on cooling .
Treated with hydriodic acid it yields a colourless compound , crystallizing in needles , probably tribromresorcin .
Analysis of .
I. *382 grm. substance gave *712 grm. argentic bromide .
II .
*292 grm. substance gave *544 grm. argentic bromide .
Dr. J , Stenhouse on Fucusol .
[ Dec. 21 , Theory .
I. II .
Mean .
C6 = 72= 14*25 . .
, , . .
H = 1= 020 , .
, , . .
Brg=400= 79-21 79-30 79-27 79-28 02 = 32= 6-34 505 100-00 . . .
* The analyses of those chlorine and bromine derivatives of resorcin that have just been described thoroughly establish the existence of the compounds C6 H Clg 02 and 06 H Brg 02 , which closely resemble in their properties the corresponding pentachlororcin , C7 H3 Cl5 02 , and pentabrom-orcin , C7 H3 Brg 02 , obtained from ordinary orcin .
The view of the constitution of the orcins put forth by Kekule , who regards them as dihydroxyl derivatives of the benzols , is scarcely in accordance with the method of formation and composition of these compounds , as in the case of the pentabromresorcin five hydrogen atoms in the resorcin are undoubtedly directly replaced by bromine , although one of them , according to Kekule 's view , exists as hydroxyl .
An attempt was made to prepare the resorcin body corresponding to that obtained from orcin by the action of calcium hypochlorite and hydrochloric acid , and which I have designated pentachlororcin hypochlorite , but without success .
The product was a very viscid oil , which showed no signs of solidification even after standing for some weeks , and from which I was unable to obtain any crystalline compound .
II .
" Note on Fucusol .
" By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , F.R.S. Deceived October 11 , 1871 .
In a paper which I communicated to the Royal Society of London in 1850 * , " On the Oils produced by the Action of Sulphuric Acid upon various Classes of Vegetables , " after describing the sources , method of preparation , and characteristic properties of furfurol and its educts , I described another isomeric substance closely resembling furfurol , both iu its physical and chemical properties , and which I named fucusol from the source whence it had been obtained , namely , Fucus nodosus , F. vesiculosus , F. serratus , \amp ; c. The nature of the substance which yielded furfurol was involved in considerable obscurity until the publication of Gudkow 's paper " On the Furfurol-yielding Substance in Bran " f , which he found to be present in it to the amount of from 15 to 20 per cent. , and which , when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , was converted into a brownish sweet svrup .
This is the substance from which furfurol is obtained by distillation with sulphuric acid or hydrochloric acid .
* Phil. Trans. 1850 , p. 467 .
t Zeits .
Chem. 1870 , p. 360 .

