On the Expediency of assigning Specific Names to all such Functions of simple Elements as represent definite physical Properties ; with the Suggestion of a new Term in Mechanics ; illustrated by an Investigation of the Machine moved by recoil , and also by some Observations on the Steam Engine .
By Davies Gilbert , Esq. M.P. V.P.R.S. 8c .
Read January 25 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 25 .
] The author commences this paper by stating the necessity of distinguishing by separate appellations all such functions as measure the intensity of physical properties , which he considers rendered obvious by a reference to the controversy respecting motion .
The subject of this controversy , he observes , was the measure of motion itself , it being contended on one hand that the motion of a body is always proportional to its weight multiplied by its velocity ; this opinion-being supported by reference to the properties of the common centre of gravity of systems , &amp;c. ; while on the other hand the affections of elastic bodies in collision , and the general law of the conservation of living or active forces , were adduced in support of the latter measure .
No sooner , however , were the terms " momentum " and " impetus " introduced into the science of mechanics , than the opinions of the contending parties were reconciled by the removal of every ground of dispute .
In the Bakerian lecture on the force of percussion , read to this Society in 1806 , he observes , it is remarked , that neither impetus nor momentum are usually correct measures of the effective action of machines .
The criterion of this is the force exerted , multiplied by the space through which it acts , and this measure numerically expressed has been denominated DUTY by Mr. Watt ; and the raising of one pound one foot high has been by him made the dynamic unit ; according to which estimate , the duty performed by one bushel of coals , of 84 pounds , has been found to vary from 30 to 50 millions of such units , according to the nature of the engine , and the mode of combustion .
To the measure or function represented by the force applied , multiplied by the space through which it acts , the author , however , proposes to give the name efficiency , retaining the word duty for a similar function , indicative of the work performed ; and by a 30()0 comparison of these two functions , viz. the efficiency expended on , and the duty performed by , any machine , an exact measure of its intrinsic work will be obtained .
The author then proceeds to instance the utility of this new term in investigating the mechanical value of the recoil-engine ; and by an algebraic process , taking every thing most favourable to the engine,.arrives at the conclusion that the duty cannot , even in the best state of its action , materially exceed half the efficiency , and that in consequence it can never be used with advantage , the water-wheel and the pressure-engine offering much greater duties ; while the wheel possesses the advantage of preserving a uniformity of efficiency during its whole action , which is not the case with the recoil-engine .
And these considerations lead him to remark on the impossibility of carrying into effect a plan proposed by some eminent engineers for applying steam on a principle of recoil .
To estimate the efficiency of steam acting uniformly with its entire force , the author assumes from experience that a bushel of coals can convert into steam 14 cubic feet of water , occupying 1330 times that space in the state of steam , and therefore lifting an atmosphere incumbent on the surface of the water uniformly to 1330 times its depth ; thus giving an efficiency of about 39 millions of pounds , raised one foot high .
From this he concludes ( all deductions made ) , 30 millions would probably be the utmost attainable limit of duty , but for two expedients ; 1st , causing the steam to act expansively , after exerting its whole force through a certain part of the cylinder ; 2ndly , raising its temperature , by an increased expense of fuel , much above 212 ? .
Both these means are considered , and occasion is taken to compare the efficacy of the methods invented by Messrs. Watt and Hornblower for the former purpose , the preference in point of simplicity and advantage being given however to the former .
With regard to the latter , it is concluded that in certain cases , advantage is really gained by the use of strong steam .
The author then alludes , with approbation , to a method recently attempted , where a small quantity of water is forced at each stroke into a minute boiler ; presenting , however , a very large surface , in proportion to its capacity , and kept at an equable high temperature by immersion in fused metal .
But he considers the greatest hopes of increased power to rest on the application to mechanical purposes of some fluid more elastic than the vapour of water , according to the suggestion of the President , in the Philosophical Transactions for 1823 .
The author concludes this paper by a statement of the duties actually performed by the engines in Cornwall ; from which it appears that several of the large engines there at work are actually performing a duty greater than the whole efficiency of the steam , unaided by expansive working or high pressure , on the assumptions here made ; while others , apparently similar in every respect , fail of performing half that duty , and no satisfactory cause has been assigned for that important difference .

