565 Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
Thirteenth Note.\#151 ; On the Antagonism between Reflex Inhibition and Reflex Excitation .
By C. S. Sherrington , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received November 3 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) ( From the Physiology Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) In further prosecution of observations made in Ludwig 's laboratory by Schmiedeberg* and by Bowditch/ f N. BaxtJ in 1875 carried out in that laboratory a prolonged enquiry into the effect produced on the heart 's frequence by combined stimulation of the inhibitory { vagus ) and accelerator ( i accelerans ) nerves going to that organ .
His observations were made on large dogs ; the two nerves were faradised simultaneously .
In most of his experiments , stimulation of accelerans preceded that of vagus by a few seconds , to allow for the well-known longer latency of the former 's reaction ; the precurrent stimulation of accelerans alone was immediately followed by stimulation of both nerves simultaneously .
Baxt found the rate of heart-beat under the combined stimulation slowed as though the vagus only and no accelerator was in operation ; but , immediately following on cessation of the combined stimulation , a full accelerator effect appeared , as though no stimulation of the vagus had taken place .
Baxt employed usually minimal stimulation of vagus and maximal of accelerans , for he found minimal excitation of vagus suffice to set aside completely , for the time being , maximal excitation of accelerans .
In his hands , the result of the combined stimulation was vagus action , even when weakest , completely obscuring accelerans action even at strongest ; but although the accelerans action showed no trace of its existence during the vagus stimulation , it appeared in full force after the vagus action had passed off .
The vagus action , therefore , did not destroy it , but merely postponed its appearing .
Baxt drew the conclusion that the inhibitory nerve and the excitatory nerve must act on separate points in the heart 's mechanism and are not true antagonists .
This view has since been endorsed by many , S but is not that of v. Cyon , the discoverer of the accelerator .
Another field for examination of the same problem was chosen by * * Arbeiten a. d. physiol .
Anstalt z. Leipzig , ' 1871 .
t Ibid. , 1873 .
x Ibid. , 1875 .
S E.g. , Tigerstedt , ' Pliysiologie d. Kreislaufs , ' Leipzig , 1894 ; for a contrary view see S. J. Meltzer , ' Archiv .
f. Physiologie , ' Leipzig , 1892 , p. 376 , and v. Cyon , ' Nerven d. Herzen , ' Berlin , 1907 .
566 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Nov. 3 , v. Frey.* * * S He investigated the effect on the venous flow from the submaxillary gland of simultaneous stimulation of the vaso-constrictor { cervical sympathetic ) and the vaso-dilatator { chorda nerves .
The dilatating influence of the chorda proved to be completely overpowered by the constricting effect of the sympathetic during combined stimulation of the two .
But on discontinuing the combined stimulation there ensued from the vein a markedly excessive blood-flow , i.e. , a marked chorda action ensued as an after-effect .
The action of the sympathetic had , therefore , not destroyed the action of the concurrently excited chorda , it had only postponed its appearing , v. Frey , with his customary clearness , wrotef : " the antagonism between constrictor and dilatator has not as its basis a simple summing of two forces which act in opposite direction at the same point of application .
" The sympathetic prevails entirely for the time being as regards the surface effect , but the chorda nevertheless develops with regular course the change characteristic of its action , and does so " in some part of the excitable apparatus protected from the attack of the sympathetic : only in some other place do the actions of the two collide .
" } : Some years later Heidenhain , S discussing the acceleration of pulse-rate , which in the frog follows discontinuance of a stimulation of the vagus-trunk , attributed it to accelerans fibres commingled with the inhibitory in the vagus-trunk , and with them excited by the stimulus applied .
He then went on to suggest that inhibitory actions fall into two classes which should be clearly distinguished one from the other .
He argued that in one class the inhibitory process antagonises the excitatory process by decreasing or suppressing its actual occurrence .
Whereas in a second class the inhibitory process , without actually lessening , or indeed altering , the excitatory process , simply prevents the latter from , for the time being , getting access to and affecting the organ of its destination , the organ which , but for the inhibition , it would reach and affect .
To this second class of inhibitions he relegated the vagus action on the heart and its interference with the accelerator on that organ .
As another example of this second class , he cited similarly the opposition between sympathetic and chorda on the vessels of the submaxillary gland .
This explanation of inhibition brought forward by Heidenhain as satisfying the cases which he terms inhibitions " of the second class " resembles the hypothesis earlier offered by Rosenthal.|| Rosenthal , after making his * * Arbeiten a , d. physiol .
Anstalt z. Leipzig , ' 1876 .
t Ibid , + Ibid. S * Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 27 , p. 283 , 1882 .
|| ' Die Atheinbewegungen u. ihre Bezieliungen z. N. Vagus , ' Berlin , 1862 .
1908 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
567 discovery that stimulation of the afferent laryngeus superior brings the diaphragm to rest in the relaxed condition , offered the following explanation of this inhibition .
The rhythmic action of the respiratory centre results , he argued , from the excitation which arises in that centre not having access to the motor channels directly , but having to pass a resistance .
Through this resistance the continuous excitation is transformed into an intermitting and rhythmic discharge .
This resistance he supposed to be increased by stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve ; whence the inhibitory action of the nerve .
It is interesting to find Heidenhain adopting this explanation , first advanced for a central reflex inhibition , as applicable to peripheral inhibitions ( therefore of his second class ) , but on the other hand discarding it as little applicable to central reflex inhibitions .
These latter he considered as for the most part belonging to his first class .
He gives no specific instance , but he is evidently expressing the impression he has derived from his work with Bubnoff , * published the previous year , " on excitation and inhibition in Motor Cerebral Centres .
" In " a great number of the facts known as voluntary and reflex inhibition " it is " a matter of the weakening or suppression of central excitatory processes by willed or peripheral sensory influence."f And ten years later Meltzer , J from observations " on the mutual relation of the nerve-fibres in the vagus which inhibit and excite respiration , " distinctly concludes that under maximal stimuli the action of one of the opposed nerves regularly hides that of the other ( just as does the vagus the accelerator 's action and the sympathetic the chorda dilating action ) , but that with submaximal stimuli " giebt es kein Ueberwiegen , sondern ein Verschmeltzen zu einer Resultante."S Reid Hunt|| showed that , as indeed some of Baxt 's own records reveal ( cf. Meltzer ) , accelerans stimulation does express itself on beat-rate even during vagus excitation .
0 .
Frank !
obtained a similar result ; he , however , upholds Baxt 's conclusion as legitimate , stressing the fact that while accelerans quickens both systole and diastole , vagus slows diastole alone .
Recently Bessmertny , ** from experiments under Asher , also infers that these antagonists act at separate places in the cardiac mechanism .
Cyon , however , * 'Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 26 , p. 137 , 1881 .
t Ibid. , vol. 27 , p. 283 , 1882 .
% 'Archiv f. Physiologie , ' Leipzig , 1892 , p. 341 .
S Ibid. , p. 383 .
|| ' Amer .
Journ. of Physiol. , ' 1894 , vol. 2 , p. 396 .
IT ' Sitzungsb .
d. Ges .
f. Morph , u. Physiol , in Munchen , ' 1897 .
** ' Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' vol. 47 , p. 400 , 1905 .
568 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Nov. 3 , has always pressed an exactly opposite view.* * * S By Asherf the question has been tested in another case by pitting depressor stimulation against asphyxial stimulation of the vasomotor centre : there also the results he concludes confirm those already given by the experiments on vagus-accelerator and on constrictor-dilatator antagonism .
Similar questions arise in regard to the reflex inhibitions expressed by skeletal muscles .
Here the seat of the inhibition is central .
The skeletal muscle attached by means of its motor nerve to the centre expresses by contraction the excitation of the motoneurones of that centre and by relaxation or by restraint from contraction the inhibition of those motoneurones .
In the following experiments I have chosen as field for collision of the opposed influences , excitatory and inhibitory , the motoneurones of the vasto-crureus muscle .
Of the various afferent arcs acting on this field I have selected two whose reflex influences are of diametrically opposed direction .
Of these , one causes flexion of the knee , the other extension .
The former was excited by faradisation of the central stump of the ipselateral peroneal nerve severed at the knee , the latter by similar faradisation of the contralateral popliteal nerve likewise severed at the knee .
The vasto-crureus , with its nerve and blood supply and attachments intact , was isolated as described in previous papers.^ The femur was fixed by a strong clamp close above its condyles .
All nerves of the opposite leg were severed to exclude reflex movement there which might confuse the result .
The animals ( cat ) were decerebrate , decerebration being performed under deep chloroform-ether narcosis .
For faradisation two Berne coils with secondary values graduated in Kronecker units were employed .
In the secondary circuit containing the electrodes there was intercalated in all cases a resistance of 100,000 ohms in order to steady the stimulation values for the nerve-trunk .
In one respect the mutual antagonism of these reflex influences acting on this preparation differs from that described as obtaining in the antagonisms mentioned previously .
The difference is as follows :\#151 ; When both the afferent nerves are stimulated fairly strongly the ipselateral exerts preponderant influence over the contralateral .
S This preponderance is evidenced in two ways : ( a ) The muscle , while contracting under the excitatory influence of the contralateral reflex , on fairly strong stimulation being applied to the ipselateral afferent nerve forthwith relaxes completely so as * 'Nerfs d. Coeur , ' Paris , 1905 , 'Nerven d. Herzen , ' Berlin , 1907 .
t 'Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' vol. 47 , p. 87 , 1905 .
J Sherrington , i Journ. of Physiol./ vol. 36 , p. 185 .
S Sherrington , * Integrative Action of the Nervous System/ 1906 , p. 224 .
1908 .
] Innervation oj Antagonistic Muscles .
to show no obvious contraction ( see figures in previous papers).* ( / 3 ) The muscle , while lying relaxed under the inhibitory influence of the ipselateral reflex already in operation , on fairly strong stimulation being then applied to the contralateral afferent nerve still remains , in spite of that stimulus , relaxed and to all appearance devoid of any contraction ( see figures in previous papers).f The ipselateral afferent arc is therefore the prepotent one : its action overpowers that of the contralateral arc .
But , as has been shown elsewhere , J this prepotence is not inevitable .
The influence of the contralateral afferent nerve finds clear expression if its stimulation be strong at a time when that of the ipselateral is quite weak ( fig. 1 ) .
Whether the one Fig. i. influence or the other is preponderant depends , therefore , in the case of this preparation , on the relative intensity of the stimuli applied to the two antagonistic nerves respectively .
This reversibility of the sense of the reaction seemed to me to indicate the preparation as a favourable one on which to test the nature of the antagonism .
The more so as in it both the excitatory reflex and the inhibitory reflex are capable of being graded v. * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 76 , p. 277 .
t E.g.y ' Brit. Assoc. Rep. , ' Camb .
, 1904 , p. 736 .
f Sherrington , 'Integrative Action of the Nervous System , ' p. 225 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Nov. 3 , in intensity with much fineness by simply grading the intensity of stimulus applied to their respective afferent nerves.* It was sought , therefore , to find whether , when the relative intensity of the excitation of the two opposed reflexes is appropriately graded , there appears in the muscle a resultant action intermediate in degree between the relaxation which the inhibitory reflex acting by itself produces and the contraction which the excitatory reflex acting by itself produces .
The accompanying reproductions of graphic records taken in typical experiments give better than any verbal description the facts observed.f In the experiment furnishing fig. 2 the inhibitory afferent nerve ( ipselateral peroneal ) was faradised for the period marked by the upper signal .
The secondary coil of the Berne inductorium was at 100 units on the Kronecker scale .
The threshold stimulus for the inhibitory reflex lay at 40 units of the scale .
It had been found that as the intensities of stimulus were increased from this threshold upward , the reflex inhibitions obviously increased in speed and persistence of effect , and also in the earlier range of the scale in depth relatively to duration of stimulus , } : but above about 5000 units there was no clear increase further ; the inhibitions became maximal .
The induced currents , when the electrodes were applied to the tongue-tip , were just perceptible at 1100 units on the scale .
In the myogram , relaxation of the muscle is recorded by descent of the line , contraction by ascent .
The effect of the stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve is seen to be a fairly rapid but somewhat hesitant descent of the myogram line .
This hesitancy of relaxation is , in my experience , absent from strong inhibitions , and indicates here that the inhibitory reaction , though obvious enough , was not intense .
When the inhibitory reflex had been in progress about 2 seconds , stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve ( contralateral popliteal ) was commenced ( shown by the lower signal line ) , the stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve continuing as before .
The muscle at once contracted to a certain degree .
The secondary coil faradising the excitatory afferent nerve was at 500 units on the Kronecker scale .
The concurrent stimulation of both nerves continued for somewhat longer than 1 second ; under it the contraction of the muscle persisted at about the same grade as that which it had almost immediately attained .
The stimulation of the inhibitory afferent * Sherrington , 'Quart .
Journ. of Expl .
Physiol. , ' vol. 1 , p. 98 , 1908 .
+ The time line is above in all the figures and marks seconds .
The signal lines marking the times of stimulation are below ; of them the upper marks stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve , the lower marking stimulation of the excitatory nerve .
In all the myograph lever indicates lengthening of the muscle when it descends , and shortening of the muscle when it ascends .
The further description of the figures is given in the text .
| Cf .
ibid. , 'Quart .
Journ. of Expl .
Physiol. , ' loc. cit. 1908 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic nerve was then discontinued , that of the excitatory afferent nerve continuing as before .
The muscle then at once contracted to a greater extent than it had done under the combined stimulation of both nerves .
Finally , the stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve was discontinued .
The contraction of the muscle at once diminished with gradually decreasing Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Nov. 3 , speed , and in about 6 seconds after cessation of the stimulus the muscle had neaily regained the length it had just prior to the observation .
i " m I E Fig. 3 .
The observation of which fig. 3 reproduces the record was carried out somewhat similarly to that of fig. 2 .
The stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve was of the same intensity as in fig. 2 , but was continued longer .
The stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve was , however , weaker , namely 75 Kronecker units instead of 100 ; it was , however , three times as prolonged .
Under the simultaneous stimulation of the two nerves the muscle assumed and maintained , as the record shows , a degree of contraction greater than under the combined stimulation in the experiment furnishing fig. 2 .
1908 .
] Innervation of Antagoni Muscles .
If the intensities of the reflex inhibition and the reflex excitation respectively be represented by the numbers on the Kronecker scale attached to the stimuli of their respective nerves , the combination Inhibition 100 + Excitation 500 ( fig. 2 ) gives a lesser grade of contraction than the combination Inhibition 75 + Excitation 500 ( fig. 3 ) .
Further , in the former combination ( fig. 2 ) the grade of contraction is nearer to the degree of relaxed state under the inhibitory stimulus alone , and is further from the degree of contraction under the excitatory stimulus alone than in the latter ( fig. 3 ) combination .
If figs. 2 and 3 are compared with fig. 1 , they elucidate certain features of the last-named .
In fig. 1 , during the stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve ( upper signal ) by 80 Kronecker units , there was added stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve ( lower signal ) by 400 Kronecker units .
Marked contraction of the muscle resulted , and was maintained , although with gradual decrease , as long as the stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve continued .
The stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve was then discontinued , and the muscle at once relaxed to the length it exhibited immediately before the advent of the excitatory reflex .
Finally , the inhibitory stimulus was withdrawn .
From this record and from others similarly obtained the inference might be drawn that the excitatory reflex in producing the contraction entirely obliterated the action of the antagonistic inhibitory arc stimulated at the same time .
Such records as figs. 2 and 3 show , however , that that was certainly not the case .
On the contraction of the muscle in fig. 1 , the action of the inhibitory afferent nerve is without doubt exerting influence all the time , and makes the amplitude of the contraction less than it otherwise would be .
The contraction obtained is a compromise between the two antagonistic influences of excitation and inhibition simultaneously at work .
The quick subsidence of the contraction on discontinuance of the stimulus of the excitatory afferent nerve in fig. 1 , as compared with its slow disappearance in figs. 2 and 3 , is further evidence of the continued operation of the inhibitory action in the former .
In the type of experiment exemplified by figs. 2 and 3 , the period of simultaneous stimulation of the two nerves of opposed effect followed immediately on the inhibitory reflex already in operation under stimulation of the inhibitory member of the opposed pair .
If the result thus given by the concurrent stimulation of the opposed pair be really of general application to their case , it should appear also when the sequence of their stimulation is reversed .
The reversal was arranged , and the results it gives are exemplified by the records shown in figs. 4 , B and 5 , B. Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Nov. .
3 , In 4 , B the experiment opens ( lower signal line ) with stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve ( contralateral popliteal ) the secondary coil standing at 500 units on the Kronecker scale .
The myogram shows immediate contraction of the vasto-crureus .
One second later stimulation of the inhibitory Fig. 4 .
afferent nerve ( ipselateral peroneal , upper signal line ) at 150 units of the Kronecker scale is commenced , the stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve being continued as before .
The result on the muscle is immediate decrease of the grade of contraction .
The concurrent stimulation is continued for 1 \#163 ; seconds , and during that period the contraction of the muscle continues to decrease more and more slowly until at end of that time the degree o 1908 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
contraction has fairly settled down to a grade somewhat less than half that acquired under the stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve alone .
The stimulation of the excitatory nerve is then withdrawn : marked further relaxation of the muscle immediately follows .
Finally , the stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve is discontinued , and this is followed by a small and relatively sluggish rebound of contraction , such as formed the subject of a previous note ( successive induction).* To assess the result of the combined stimulation in such an experiment as this it is necessary to compare the result with that obtained when , other conditions remaining unaltered , the sequence of the stimulations is made in the reverse order .
This reversal was made and the record ( fig. 4 , A ) obtained three minutes after the record , fig. 4 , B. The concurrent stimulation of the antagonistic afferent nerves occurs under exactly similar circumstances as before , except that it breaks in on the reflex produced by the inhibitory component of the opposed nerves instead of by the excitatory .
The height of the contraction under the combined stimulation is seen to be less in this case ( fig. 4 , A ) than in the former ( fig. 4 , B ) .
But in both cases the grade of contraction of the muscle is intermediate between that given by the excitatory afferent nerve singly and that given by the inhibitory afferent nerve singly .
A further difference between the two records lies in the quicker subsidence of the contraction at the end of fig. 4 , B than in fig. 4 , A. This is due to the subsidence in the former being due to active inhibition .
Whereas in 4 , A the subsidence is due to cessation of excitation merely .
The difference just noted in the degree of contraction under the combined stimulation , according as that stimulation succeeds an inhibitory or an excitatory reflex , is greater than usually occurs .
This seems referable to the brevity of the combined stimulations in these examples .
That it is so is indicated by experiments such as are illustrated by the records furnishing figs. 5 , A and 5 , B. In fig. 5 , B the experiment opens with stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve ( contralateral popliteal , lower signal line ) by 500 Kronecker units .
This stimulation gives immediate contraction of the muscle and the contraction has nearly reached its full height when , three seconds later , stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve ( ipselateral peroneal , upper signal line ) is commenced , stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve continuing as before .
In this experiment the stimulus applied to the inhibitory afferent nerve is very weak , namely , 50 units on the Kronecker scale , threshold value of stimulus lying at about 35 on the scale .
This weak stimulation of the inhibitory nerve nevertheless immediately makes itself visible on the myogram in a slight decrease in the height of the contraction of the muscle .
The * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vols .
76 and 77 , 1906 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Nov. 3 , S 1-1 H combined stimulation of the two antagonistic afferent nerves is then continued for some seven seconds and during this period there is little further alteration in the grade of contraction of the muscle .
Stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve is then discontinued , that of the inhibitory afferent nerve being continued unchanged .
The muscle immediately relaxes the speed of Fig. 5 .
1908 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
disappearance of its contraction , documenting further the presence of inhibitory-action under the stimulation , weak as it is , of the inhibitory afferent nerve .
Finally , the stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve is withdrawn , and there then ensues a slight rebound contraction ( successive induction* ) .
With the result of the combined stimulation obtained in this case , there must be compared the result obtained a few minutes later ( fig. 5 , A ) under similar conditions , save for reversal of the sequence of the stimulations .
In fig. 5 , A , the same weak stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve ( upper signal line ) opens the experiment ; the slow hesitating relaxation of the muscle evidences the feeble intensity of the inhibitory influence .
After this has been in progress for some four seconds , stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve is commenced .
The muscle at once contracts and in the next four seconds attains almost the summit of its contraction elicitable by the combined stimulation .
That this grade of contraction is , however , less than what it would exhibit under stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve alone is clear from what happens when the weak stimulation of the inhibitory afferent nerve is discontinued .
On removal of this inhibiting stimulus the myogram line immediately ascends and a higher grade of contraction is uniformly maintained for the following three seconds , at end of which time stimulation is finally withdrawn from the excitatory afferent nerve .
The muscle then relaxes , but with characteristically slower lengthening than in fig. 5 , B , where the weak inhibitory stimulus was still in play at the time of withdrawal of the stimulation of the excitatory afferent nerve .
Finally a point already raised may be returned to for fuller exemplification .
The records furnishing figs. 5 , 3 , 2 , and 4 have all been chosen from a series of observations obtained in near succession and from the same preparation .
The intensity of the stimulus applied to the excitatory afferent nerve remained the same throughout them all , namely , 500 units on the Kro'necker scale .
On the other hand , the intensity of the stimulus applied to the inhibitory afferent nerve was different in the four observations figured ; in fig. 5 it was 50 units of the Kroneeker scale ; in fig. 3 , 75 units ; in fig. 2 , 100 units ; and in fig. 4 it was 150 units .
On comparing together in the four figures 5 , A , 3 , 2 , and 4 , A the levels assumed by contraction under the combined stimulation in each case , and the relation of those levels to the depth of relaxation under inhibitory stimulus alone , and to the height of contraction under excitatory stimulus alone , it is clearly seen that the four levels form a graded series , and that the grading accords with the relative intensities of the stimuli .
The length of the muscle under the combined stimulus , Excit .
+ Inhib .
, more resembles the length under * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vols .
76 and 77 , 1906 .
VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; 11 .
578 On Reciprocal Innervation Muscles .
Excit .
when the Inhib .
component is weak , and more resembles the length under Inhib .
when the Inhib .
component is strong .
This result on the muscle strikingly resembles in ratio the sensual result obtained by binocularly combining dark grey and light grey simultaneously presented one to right eye the other to left .
From the observations it seems clear that the reflex effect of concurrent stimulation of excitatory afferent nerve with inhibitory afferent nerve on the vasto-crureus nerve-muscle preparation is an algebraic summation of the effects obtainable from the two nerves singly , as v. Cyon has maintained for the heart .
The individual effects of the two nerves " fuse to a resultant , " to use words applied by Meltzer to his results on the respiratory centre .
One inference allowable from this is that in the case before us the two afferent arcs employed act in opposite direction at one and the same point of application in the excitable apparatus .
They are in this sense true antagonists .
The inhibition exercised by the inhibitory member of the pair comes therefore under Heidenliain 's Class I of inhibitory reaction^ .
As to the common locus of operation , the point of collision of the antagonistic influences , it seems permissible to suppose either that it lies at a synapse , in which case the opposed influences may be thought of as altering oppositely the permeability of the synaptic membrane , or that it lies in the substance of the " central " portion of a neurone , probably of the motoneurone itself , meaning by " central " that part of the neurone which lies in the reflex centre .
In either case the condition of the material of the common locus seems altered in two diametrically opposite ways by the two antagonistic afferent arcs .
The net change which results there when the two arcs are stimulated concurrently is an algebraic sum of the plus and minus effects producible separately by stimulating singly the two antagonistic nerves .
[ Reference was made above , p. 568 , to observations on antagonism which took the vasomotor centre as test-object .
On this subject a very clear statement is given by Bayliss.* " The results of exciting simultaneously the depressor nerve and a pressor nerve , such as the central end of the anterior crural , depend entirely on the relative strengths of the stimuli : whichever nerve is under the stronger excitation shows its own effect on the blood-pressure and when the excitation of this one is stopped the effect of the other manifests itself .
" " There appears to be a perfect antagonism between the pressor and depressor actions on the centre .
" In the same work , Prof. Bayliss describes also the result of opposing depressor action against asphyxial stimulation , the latter when weak lessening the effect of the former , when strong annulling it.\#151 ; January , 1909.j * ' Journ. of Physiology/ vol. 14 , p. 318 , 1892 .

