]\gt ; of Planet and Single Satellite .
In a series of papers read from time to time during the past ) years before the Royal Society , I have ated the theory of tides raised in a viscous spheroid , or planet , by an attendanr satellite , and have also considered the secular in the rotation of planet , and in the revolution of the satellite .
investigatious were intended to be especially applicable to the case of the earth } moon , but the friction of the solar tides found to be f$ factor of importance , so that in a large part of those papers it became necessary to conceive the planet as attended by two satellites .
The differential equations which gave the secular changes in the system were rendered very complex by the introduction of ' sola ] disturbance , and I was unable to , them analytically ; equations were treated by a method of numerical quadratures , in which all the data were takell from the earth , moon , and HL11 .
This numerical treatment did not permit an into all } various effects which might result from frictional tides , ftnd an analytical solution , applicable to any planet and satellite , is desirable .
In the present paper such an analytical solution is found , and interpreted aphically .
But the problem is considered from a view which is at once more special azxd more of the previous papers .
The point of is more general in that planet may here ( ; onceived to have any density and nlass whatever , and to be rotatiug ith any angular velocity , provided that the ellipticity of figure is not large , and thathe satellite may have any mass , and may be about its planet , either consentaneously wich or adversely to the planetary rotation .
On the other hand , the problem here considered ; more special in that the planet is supposed to be a spheroid of fluid of viscosity ; that theob ] iquity of the planet 's equator , the .
G. H. Darwin .
tion and the eccentricity of satellite 's orbit to the plane of reference treated as small , and , lasJy , it is supposed that the planet only attended by a single satellite .
The satellite itseIf is treated as an attractive particle , and the is supposed to be homogoneous .
notation adopted is made to agree as far as possible with that of a previous paper , in which the subject was treated from a similarly eneral point of view , but where it was snpposed that the equator and orbit were -planar , and the orbit necessarily circular .
* The motion of the system is referred to the invariable plane , that is , to the plane of lmum moment of momelltum .
The following is the notation adopled:\mdash ; For the planet:\mdash ; mass ; mean radius ; mean pure gravity ; moment of inertia ( neglecting ellipticity of figut.e ) ; angular velocity of rotation ; obliquity of equator to invariable plane , considered as small ; For the satellite:\mdash ; mass ; mean distance ; mean motion ; eccentri .
of orbit , considered as small ; inclination of orbit , considered as small ; , where is measured in the astronomical unili .
For both together : \mdash ; , the ratio of the resultant moment of momexltum of the whole system ; whole energy , bobh kinetic and potential , of the system .
By a proper choice of the units of length , mass , and time , the notation may be considerably simplilied .
Let the unit of length be such that , when measured in the astronomical unit , may be equal to unity .
Let the unit of time be such that or ] may be unity .
Let the unit of mass be such that , the planet:s moment of inertia , may be unity .
Then we have . . . . .
( 1 ) .
Now , if we put for its value , and for its value , we have .
, since } is unity , and since is unity , , when is estimated in ]leastroIlomical * ' ' Determination of the Se Effecfs of Tidal iction by a Metllod , \ldquo ; " " Proc. Roy .
No. 197 , 1879 .
History of Ptanet and Singte Again , since , and ce is unity , therefore where is estimated in the mass unit .
Therefore is unity , when and are estimated in the mass unit , with the proposed units of length , time , and mass .
According to the theory of elliptic motion , the moment of momentum of the orbital motion of the planet and satellite about their common centre of inertia is .
Now it has been shown that the factor involving is unity , and by ( 1 ) Hence , if we neglect the square of the eccentricity , the .
of .
of orbital motion is numerically equal to or Let In this paper , the momen of momentum of orbital motion , will be taken as the independent variable .
In interpreting figures given below it will be useful to remember that it is also equal to ths square root of the mean distance .
The moment of momentum of the planet 's ation is equal to ; and since is unity , will be either the .
of .
of the planet 's rotation , or the angular velocity of rotation itself .
With the units , since ; and AIso ( a quantity which occurs below ) is equal to Now let be the time , and let , be the phase-retardation of the tide which I elsewhere called the sidereal semi-diurnal tide of speed , which tide is known in the British Association Report on ides as the faster of the two tides .
Then if the planet be a fluid of small viscosity , the .
are the differential equations which give the secular in the elements of the system : . .
( 4 ) . .
The first three of these equations arc in effect established in my paper on the " " Precession of a Viscous Spheroid *S17 , p. 497 , .
* ' Phil. Irans Pnrt II , 1879 . .
G. H. Darwin .
suffix to the symbols and there indicates that the tions ( 80 ) only refer to the action of the moon , and as here we have a .
satellite , are the complete equations .
is equal , so that disappears from the first and second of ( 80 ) ; , and thus disap } ears from the third equation .
, and , since we are treating the obliquity as small , ; also ; the of that paper is identical with the of present one ; lastly is equal to , and since our units , therefore With regard to the transformation of ] first of ( 80 ) into ( 4 ) of the present paper , I remark that small , and introducing this transformation into the first ( 80 ) , equation ( 4 ) is obtained , except that occurs in place of Now in the paper on the " " Precession of a Spheroid\ldquo ; the inclination of the orbit of the satellite to the plane of reference was treated zero , and hence was zero ; but I have proved a paper " " On the Secular Changes in the Elements of the Orbit of a Satellite revolving about a tidffily distorted Planet\ldquo ; ( read before the Royal Society on December lSth , 1879 , but as yet unpublished ) that when we take into account the inclination of the orbit of the satellite , the and the right-hand sides of eq. ( 80 ) of ' ' Precession\ldquo ; must be taken as the cosine and sine of ?
instead of ?
Equations ( 6 ) and ( 6 ) are proved in S 10 , , and S , Part V of the unpnblished paper , and the reader is requeqted to take them as established .
The integrals of this system of equations will give the secular changes in the motion of the system under the influence of the frictional tides .
The object of the present paper is to find an analy tical expression for the solution , and to interpret that solution geometrically .
From equations ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) we have But from ( 3 ) and is equal to the same expression ; hence The integral of this equation is il ( 7 ) . . ?
Equation ( 7 ) may also be obtained by the principle of conservation of moment of momentum .
The motion is referred to the invariable plane of the system , and however the planet and satellibe may interact on one another , the resultarlt .
of .
must remain constant IIistory of Planet and Single Satellite .
and magnitude .
Hence if we draw a the diagonal is ( the resultant .
of the system ) , and the sides are and , inclined respectively to the diagonal angles and , we see at once that If and be treated as small this reduces to ( 7 ) .
Again the consideration of this parallelogram shows that , which expresses the constancy of moment of .
If squares and higher powers of be ected , this becomes . .
, . .
may also be obtained by observin that and therefore on integration is constant .
It is from principle of .
of .
that the planet 's eqnator and the plane of } satellite:s orbit have a common node on the invariable plane of tlIe system .
If we divide equations ( 4 ) and ( 6 ) by ( 3 ) , we have the . . . . . . .
But from ( 7 ) and , and and ( 10 ) may be written ( ll ) .
Now herefo .
Also Mr. G. H. Darwin .
Therefore These two equations are integrable as they stand , except as the last term in each of them .
It was in a previous paper that the whole energy of system , both kinetic and potential , was equal to Then tegrating ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) , and writing and again , and the expression for the energy , we have the following tions , which give the variations of the elements of the system in of the square root of the satellite 's distance , and independently of time .
const .
const . .
( 14 ) When the integration of these equations is completed , we shall have the means of tracing the history of a fluid planet of small viscosity , attended by a single satellite , when the system is started with any given moment of momontum , and with any mean distance and ( small ) inclination and ( small ) eccentricity of the satellito 's orbit , and ( small ) obliquity of the planet 's equator .
It may be marked that is to be taken as essentially positive , because the sign of merely depends on the convention which we choose to adopt to positive and negati rotations .
These equations do not involve the time , but it will be shown how the time may be also found as a function of .
It is not , ever , necessary to find the expressio1l for the time in order to the sequence of events in the history of the system .
Since the fluid which forms the planet is subject to friction , fore system is non-conservative of energy , and therefore change in such a way that may diminish .
If the expression for be illustrated by curve in which is vertical ordinate and the horizontal abscissa , then any point on " " curve of energy\ldquo ; may be taken to represent one configuration the system , as far as regards the mean distance of the * ' The Secular Effects of Tidal iction , \ldquo ; \amp ; c. , Proc. .
Soc , eq. ( 4 ) .
History of Planet and Single Satellite .
Then such a point must always slide down a slope of energy , and we hall see which way must vary for any configuration .
This consideraiion will enable us to determine the sequence of events , when we come to consider the expressions for in terms of We have now to consider the further steps towards the complete olution of the problem .
The only difficulty remaining is the integration of the two expressions in the first and second of ( 14 ) .
From the forms of the expressions to be integrated , it is clear that they must be split up into partial fractions .
The forms which these fractions will assume will of COUl'se depeud on the nature of the roots of the equation Some of the perties of this biquadratic were discussed in a ious paper , but it will now be necessary to consider the subject in more detail .
It will be found by Ferrari 's method that where By using the property , this expression may bc written in the form Which is of course equivalent to finding all the roots of the biquadratic in terms of and Now let a curve be drawn of which is the ordinate Ir .
G. H. Darwin .
values of being admissible ) and the abscissa ; it is shown in Its equation is .
It is obvious that The maximum and values of are by or Then Since in the cubic , on which the tion of the biquadratic is necessarily positive , it follows that if be greater than 4/ 8 ; cubic has one real positive root greater than OM , and if be less 4/ 3 , it has two real negative roots lying } ) etweenO and OA ' , one real itive root lying between OA and OM .
To find OM we observe that since is equal bo , and the root of which is equal to is repeated therefore , if bc the third root ( or OM ) we must have whence , and or Now ; hence , if be less , the cubic has a positive root between 2 and , and if be greater than , the cubic has a positive root between and infinity .
It will only be necessary to consider the posive root of the cubic .
Now ppose to be greater than Then it has just been shown that is greater } , and hence ( being positive ) is great ] : th$n , or greater , or greater than , or -$ than unity .
Therefore Thus the biquadratic has two real roots , which we ] a and Then It will now bs proved that a is greater and less than Now or as or as as or as lffl or as or ince the left hand side is essentially positive , a is greater than 1880 .
] [ of Planet a - Again or i1S or or Since the left-hand side is ative and the right , positive , the left is loss than the ; ht , and therefore is less than If , therefore , be greater than , we may write where are positive , and where negative .
We now turn to the other case and suppose less than .
All the roots of the biquadratic are now inary , and we may put If be taken as - , then is .
Then it only remains to prove is greater than Now or as or as or , as or as or but it has been already shown that in this case , is less than 4 wherefore is reater than We may now proceed to the required integrations .
First case where is greater than Let that the roots are let a be the root which is greater than , 1 ) that which and let find the expression for we have to Let , and leb .
Then .
Hence If , therefore , .
G. H. Darwin .
Thus the partial fractions corresponding to the roots a and ( 15 ) .
If the pair of fractions corresponding to the roots be and added together , we find ( 16 ) .
The sum of ( 15 ) and ( 16 ) is equal to , and og arc ( 17 ) .
Substituting in the first of ( 14 ) we have arc ( 18 ) .
where is a constant to be determined by the value of , which corresponds with a particular value of From the third of ( 14 ) we see that by omitting the factor from the above , we obtain the expression for To find the expression for we have to integrate Now and therefore The integral remaining on the right hand has been already determined in ( 17 ) .
Then substituting in the second of ( 14 ) , we have arc ( 19 ) here B is a constant to be determined by the value of ing to some particular value of S80 .
] History of and Single Satellite .
From this equation we get the curious relationship ( 20 ) .
This last result will obviously be equally true even if all the roots are imaginary .
In the present case the complete solution of the problem is comin the following equations:\mdash ; It is obvious that the system can never degrade in such a way that should pass through .
one of the roots of the biquadratic .
Hence the solution is divided into three fields , viz. , ( i ) to ; here we must write for the in the above solution ; ( ii ) to ) ; here we must write ( this is the part which has most interest in application to actual planets and satellites ; ( iii ) to ; hel.e we must write .
When is negative the physical meaning is that the revolution of the satellite is adverse to the planet 's rotation .
By referring to ( 4 ) and ( 6 ) , we see that must be a imum or minimum when , and a maximum or minimum when Hence the corresponding values of are the roots of the equations , and Since Therefore Mr. G. H. Darwin .
Hence the coefficient of on the right-hand side must be therefore ) .
And Now when , arc , and when , it equal to Hence when ; the upper sign being taken for and the lower for Theu since tends to become constant when , and since , therefore when is very large tends to vary as If be very small has a finite value , and varies as and e varies , as , and all become finite w , and also becomes infinite when This analyti cal solution is so complex that it is not easy to staIJd its physical .
meaning ; a geometrical illustration will , make it intelligible .
The method dopted for this end is to draw a series of curves , the points on which have ' as abscissa and as ordinates .
The figure would hardly be intelligible if ] the curves were drawn at once , and therefore a separate is drawn for , and ; but in each figure the straight line which represents is drawn , and the energy curve is also intl.oduced in order to determine which way the figure is to be read .
The zero of is of course arbitrary , and therefore origin of the cnergy is in case shitted along the vertical , in such way that the energy curve may clash as little as ossible with the others .
It is not vely easy to select a value of which shall be suitable for drawing these curves within a moderate compass , but after some conideration I chose , and figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 are drawn to illustrate this value of .
If the cubic ) , be solved by Cardan 's method , it will bc found that , and using this value in the formula for the roots of the biquadratic we have Hencc Then we have 1880 .
] History of Planet and Single Satellite .
The maximum and minimum values of are given by the roots of the equation and .
The maximum and mimmum values of are given by the roots of the equation , viz. , and .
The horizontal asympfor and are at distances from the axis of equal to and , which are equal to and 908 respectively .
Fig. 2 shows the curve .
the of , the obliquity of the equator to the invariable plane .
The asymptotes are indicated by brok-en lines ; that at A is given by , and is the ordinate of maximum energy ; that at is given by , and glves the configuration of the system for which the planet has no rotation .
The point is given by , and lies on the ordinate of mimmum energy .
Geometrically the curve is divided into three parts by the vertical asymptotes , but it is further divided physically .
curve of energy has four slopes , and since the enel'gy must degrade , there are four methods in which the system may change , to the way in which it was started .
The arrows marked on the curve of obliquity show the direction in which the curve must read .
Since none of these four methods can ever pass into another , this figure really contains four figures , and the following parts of the figur are quite independent of one another , .
: ( i ) from to ; ( ii ) from A to ; ( iii ) from A to ; ( iv ) from to C. The and 4 are similarly in reality four figures combined .
For each of these parts the constant must be chosen with appropriate sign ; but order to permit the cul.ves in fig. 2 to be cometrically continuous the obliquity is allowed to change sign .
The actual numerical interpretation this depends on the value of .
Thus if for any value of in any of the four fields the obliquity has an assigned value , then the ordinate corresponding to that value of will give a scale of obliquity from which all the other ordinates within that field may be estimated .
Mr. G. H. Darwin .
As a special example of this we see that , if the obliquity be zero at any point , a consideration of the curve will determine whether zero obliquity be dynamically stable or not ; for if the arrows on the curve of obliquity be approaching the axis of , zero obliquity is dynamically stable , and if receding from the axis of , dynamically unstable .
Hence from to , zero obliquity is dynamically unstable , from to and A to Odynamical ] stable , and from A to , first stable , then unstable , and finally stable .
The infinite value of the obliquity at the point has a peculiar significance , for at the planet has no rotation , and being thus free from what Sir William Thomson calls " " gyroscopic dominafion the obliquity changes with infinite ease .
In fact at the term equator loses its meaning .
The infinite value at A has a different meaning .
The configuration A is one of maximum energy and of dynamical equilibrium , but is unstable as regards mean distaIlce and planetary rotation ; at this point the system changes infinitely slowly as regards Tfistory of Planet ) \amp ; tellite .
and therefore the infinite value of the obliquity does not indicate infinite rate of change of obliquity .
In fact if we put in ( 1 ) see that vever , to consider this case we shouId have to take into account the obliquity in the for and , because principal semi-diurnal tide when Similarly at the minimum of the system changes infinitely and thus the obliquity would take an infinite time to vanish .
may now state the physical meaning of fig. 2 , and this interpremay be compared with a similar interpretation in the paper ou ' The secular effects of tidal friction above referred to .
fluid planet of small visoosity is attended by a single satellite , and system is started with an amount of positive moment of momentum is greater than 4/ 3 ?
, with our present units of length , mass and The part of the figure on the negative side of the origin indicates a revolution of the satellite and a positive- rotation of the but the .
of .
of planetary rotation reater ( by an amount than the .
of .
of orbital motion .
Then the satellite approaches planet and ultimately falls into it , and the obliquity always slowly .
The part from to A indicates positive rotation both parts of the system , but the satellite is very close to the planet revolves round the planet quicker than the planet rotates , as in case of the inner satellite of Mars .
Here again the satellite and ultimately falls in , and the obliquity always diminishes .
The part from A to indicates positive rotation of both parts , but satellite revolves slower than the planet rotates .
This is the case has most interest for application to the solar system .
The recedes from the planet , and the system ceases its changes the lite and planet revolve slowly as parts of a liidb body\mdash ; is to say , when the energy is a minimum .
The obliquity first then increases to a maximum , and ultimately decreases to The part infinity to indicates posive revolution of the and from infinity to a ative rotation of the planet , bub to a positive rotation of the planet , which is slower than the of the satellite .
In either of these cases the satellite the planet , but the changes cease when the satellite and move slowly round as parts of a rigid body\mdash ; that is to say , when cnerg7 is a minimum .
If the rotation of the planet be obliquity dimimshes , if ative it increases .
If the rotation 01 planet be nil , the term obliquity ceases to have any meaning , is no longer equator .
According to the present eory , the moou , considcred as being attcnded by the as a sntellite , has gone through these chnnges .
Mr. G. H. Darwill .
Fig. , the changes of of the 's and may be interpreted in the same way as fig. 2 .
It appears part of figure for which is negative , that if the revoIution satellite be ative , and the rotation of the planet positive , .
of .
of planetary rotation reater than that of orbital motion , then , as the satellite approaches the planet , the inclination of the increases , or zero inclination is dynamically unstable .
In every case the inclination will decrease , or zero inclination is dynamically stable .
This result undergoes an important modification a satellite is introduced , as will appear in the unpublished paper .
Fig. 4 shows a similar curve for the eccentricity of the orbit .
variations of the eccentricity are very much larger than than those the obliquity and inclination , so that it was here necessary to draw Histor .
Planet .
271 on a much reduced scale .
It not possible to extend the far in either direction , because for large values of es as power of .
The curve The curve resents a resemblance to that obliquity , for in the field comprised between the two roots the between the eccentricity diminishes to a increases to maximum , and nltimately vanishes at C. field represents a positive rotation both of the planet and satelbut the satellite revolves slower than the planet rotates .
This part the degradation of the system from the configuration of energy to that of minimum energy , and the satellite the planet , two move round slowly like the parts of a body .
In every other case the eccentricity rades rpidly , whilst the approaches the planet .
The very rapid rate of variation of the eccentricity , compared with of the obliquity would lead one to expect that the eccentricity of orbit of a satellite should become in the course of it Mr. G. H. Darwin .
evolution , whilst the obliquity should not increase to any very extent .
But it must be remembered that we are here only planet of small viscosity , and it will appear , in the unpublished above referred to , that the rate of increase or diminution of the tricity is very much less rapid ( per unit increase of x ) if the be not small , whilst the rate of increase or diminution of ( per unit increase of o ) is slightly increased with increase of Thus the observed eccentricities of the orbits of satellites and obliquities of their planets cannot be said to agree in amount with theory that the planets were primitively fluids of small though I believe they agree with the theory that the planets fluids or quasi-solids of Iarge viscosity .
We now come to the second case , where is less than biquadratic having no real roots , we may put It has already been shown that a is negative , and greater than Let Then by inspection of the integral in the first case we see that arc The rest of equations ( 21 ) , which express the other elements terms of and , remain the same as before .
By comparison with the first case , we see that On multiplying both sides of this identity by , and the coefficients of , we find Therefore Thus when is equal to Bistory of Planet and Single Satellite .
upper sign being taken for , and the lower for .
This gives the horizontal asymptotes and In order to illustrate this solution , I chose , and found by trisolution of the cubic , and arc ) ) arc tam ] .
When , and when Mr. G. H. Darwin .
figures 5 , 6 , 7 .
Thero are herc only two slopes of energy , and these each of them only contain two separate figures .
Fig. .5 illustrates the changes of , the obliquity of the equator the invariable plan In this figure there is only one vertical asymptote , , that sponding to .
For this value of the planet has no rotation , free from " " gyroscopic domination and the term equator loses meaning .
The figure shows that if the rotation of the planet be negative , the .
of .
of planetary rotation less than that of orbital motion then the obliquity increases , whilst the satellite approaches the planet This increase of obliquity only continues so long as the rotation the planet is negative .
The rotation bscomes positive after a time , and the obliquity then diminishcs , whilst the satellite falls into the planet .
In the corresponding part of fig. 2 the satellite did not fall into the planet , but the two finally moved slowly ronnd ether as the parts ri body .
If the revoIution of the satellite be negative , and the rotation of the planet positive , but the .
of .
of rotation greater than that of rsvolution , the obliquity always diminishes as satellite falls in to the planet .
Jistorf of net and Figs. 2 and 5 0llly diife in the fact that in the one a truc and a true minimum of obliquity and the is llot so .
In fact , if we annihilate the the asymptotes of fig. 2 we get fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 illustrates the changes of inclination of the ) cloes possess very much interest , since it simply shows ] be started with positive revolution of the satcllit of the be positive or , the inclinntion of { he ) ) diminishes a the satellite falls in . .
the system be started with llegative cvolutiolt of the and therefore necessarily positive rotation of tl planct : the of the orbit htly increases .
aillo t } ) onds fig. 3 , if in the latter the part veen t of be ilated .
Fig. 7 illustrates the changes of icity , :thd thut it diminishes rapidly however the system is , as ) into the .
rfhis again corresponds itlt t , if Nfr .
G. H. Darwin .
the latter the parts between the maximum and minimum of annihilated .
These three figures may be interpreted as giving the various and instabilities of the system , just as was done in the first case .
The solution of the problem , which has been given and above , gives merely the sequence of events , and does not show the at which the changes in the system take place .
It will now be how the time may be found as a function of Consider the equation , is here the angle of lag of the sidereal semi-diurnal tide of speed then by the theory of the tides of a viscous spheroid , where is a certain function of the radius of the planetand its density and which varies inversely as the coefficient of viscosity of spheroid .
* Since by hypothesis the viscosity is small , is a small angle , so that may be taken as equal to 2 .
Thus , is a constant , depending on the dimensions , density , and viscosity of the planet .
It has already been shown that varies as , and is a constant , which depends only on the density of the planet .
Hence , the equation may be written , where is a certain constant , which it is immaterial at present evaluate precisely .
Since and , we have or const .
The determination of this integral presents no difficulty , but the analytical expression for the esult is very , and it does not at present seem worth while to give the result .
The actual scale of time in years will depend on the value of , and this is a subject of no interest at present .
It will , however , be pcssible to give an idea of the rate of change of the system without actually ming the integration .
This may * ' On the Bodily Tides of Viscous and semi-elastic Spheroids \amp ; c. ' Phil. \ldquo ; Part I , 1879 , p. 13 , S5 .
History of Planet and Sin. Satellite .
done by drawing in which the ordinates proportional and the abscissae are .
Tho equation to this curve is then ma , ximum and minimum values ally ) of , are gi by the sal roots of the equation ll will be found to be intermediate betvvcen a and Fig. 8 shows the nature of the curve when drawn with the ee hand .
It was not found possible to draw this to , because when it was found that the minimum was equal to 85 , an could not be made distinguishable from a on the asymptote whilst the minimum was equal to about 900,000 , could not made distinguishable fcom a point on the asymptote C. The area intercepted between this curve , the axis of , and any pair of ordinates correfiponding to two values of , will be proportional the time required to pass from the one confio u to the other .
Where is negative , that is to say , when the tcllitc is into the planet , the arcas fall ) elow the axis of is clearly uecessary in order to geometrical continuity the ctlrve .
The figure shows the rate of alteration in the ) ) .
11 Dr. J. L. W. Thudichum .
very slow when he satellite is far from the planet ; this obviously be the case , because the tidal effects vary as the power of the satellite 's mean distance . .
" " On the NIodifications of the Spectrum of Potassium are Effected by the Presence of Phosphoric Acid , and the Bases and Salts which ars found in combina .
tion with ducts of the BraiJl.\ldquo ; By J. L. W. cHUw M.1 F.R.C.P.L. Communicated by JOHN SIMON , F.B.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 10 , 1880 .
Among the resuIts of a large itlvestigaion on which , I havo many years } ) engaged in regard of the chemistry of the brain , had been led to conclude that the so-called " " protagon\ldquo ; of Liebreich is not a definite chemical body , but is .
variable mixture of several bodies .
This conclusion of mine ( which agrees with opinions expressed on the same subject by Strecker , , and HoppeSeyler ) was published by me in and endeavours to controvert it have ince then been made , on several , by Dr. Arthur Gamgee .
Last summer , he brought before the Royal his contentions for the chemical individuality of ' ' protagon and it fortunately was in my power shortly afterwards to publish evidence , which , I believe , those who will take the trouble to follow it will quite unanswerable , that Dr. Gamgee 's contentions were mistaken .
S Part of my evidence to that effect consisted in showing by quantitative that Dr. Gamgee 's so-called " " \ldquo ; contains per cent. of potassium ; secondly , that in connexion with lrifling diiferences in the extraition process , the proportion of potassium in different specimens of " " protagon ' ' can be made to rangs from a trace to per cent. ; thirdly , that with the variable quantities of potassium the quantities of phosphorus and other ing.redients will also vary .
In the Iast published number , No. 200 , p. 111 , of the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society I find that Dr. Gamgee has recently brought the question ttain under notice of the Society , and that , in doing so , he especially rests his case upon the following statement mnde by his colleague , Professor , on the subject of sonie examinations , * ' ' Reports of the Officer of the Privy Council and Local Government Board New Series .
No. III .
fur Physiol. Chemie vol. iii , p. 260 ; " " Ber .
Deutsch .
Chem Gcs 1879 , \amp ; c. " " Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. xxix , p. 151 .
S " " Annals of Chemical Medicine Rditod by J. L. W. Thudichum .
p. 264 .

