OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Benjamin Aftrorp Gould was born at Boston , on September 27 , 1824 .
He entered the Boston Latin School in 1836 , and graduated from Harvard College in 1844 .
In 1845 Gould visited Europe to make himself acquainted with the instrumental equipments of the principal Observatories .
With this object he spent about three months at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich ; four months at the Paris Observatory ; a year at the Berlin Observatory ; four months at Altona ; and a month at Gotha .
He was thus brought into contact with most of the leading astronomers of the time , and made many lasting friendships .
Dr. Gould returned to America in 1848 .
In 1852 he joined the staff of the Coast Survey , and was employed as " Assistant in Charge " on many important determinations of longitude .
The Reports of the Superintendent of the United States Coast Survey , 1852\#151 ; 66 , contain many valuable papers by Dr. Gould on points connected with longitude determinations .
In 1855 arrangements were made between the Trustees of the Dudley Observatory and the authorities of the U.S. Coast Survey , which it was thought would prove mutually advantageous , and Professors Bache , Henry , Pierce , and Dr. Gould were appointed members of the Scientific Council to superintend the workpf the Observatory , lu 1855 , Dr. Gould visited Europe and obtained a new Transit Cii'cle from Messrs. Pistor and Martins , of Berlin , and some other instruments for the Observatory .
A new Heliometer was also ordered from Mr. Spencer , of Canastota , New York , but this instrument was never completed .
On December 19 , 1857 , Dr. Gould was appointed director of the Dudley Observatory , but his relations with the trustees were not satisfactory , and in June , 1859 , his connexion with the Observatory ceased .
In 1866 , Gould took charge of the Valencia end of the telegraphic determination of the difference in longitude between that station and Newfoundland ; and the Astronomer Royal , Airy , afforded facilities for the connexion of Gould 's station with Greenwich .
About the same time , Gould reduced the observations made by D'Agelet , at Paris , 178o 85 , with a Bird quadrant .
The reductions were necessarily differential , but they afforded positions of about 2907 stars , some of which had not been observed by Bradley , and which were valuable VOL. lxii .
5 for the determinations of proper motions .
In 1866 Dr. Gould also became deeply interested in the applications of photography to astronomy .
He measured and deduced the right ascensions and declinations of about 50 stars from some photographs of the Pleiades taken by Rutherfurd , and showed that the results thus obtained agreed closely with Bessel 's Heliometer measures .
In 1870 , on the eve of his departure for Cordoba , he again took up this question and obtained the relative positions of the stars on Rutherfurd 's plates of the cluster Prsesepe .
Dr. Gould was so encouraged by his success that he made arrangements for the regular application of photography at the Cordoba Observatory .
This work was , however , seriously interfered with by the breaking of his photographic object-glass in transit , and secondly , when a new object-glass had been secured , by personal difficulties and the pressure of other work ; but some valuable results were obtained .
The establishment of the Observatory at Cordoba , and the work executed there by Dr. Gould and his assistants , must be regarded as the most important astronomical work of his life .
These works include the ' Uranoinetria Argentina , ' the ' Zone Catalogue , ' and the ' Argentine General Catalogue , ' for the epoch 1875 .
The ' Urano-nietria " gives " the brightness and position of every fixed star , down to the seventh magnitude within 100 ' of the South Pole , " with an atlas consisting of fourteen maps exhibiting on a stereographic projection the position of the stars to the seventh magnitude .
The magnitudes are based fundamentally on Argelander 's scale .
The ' Ui'anometria ' was published in 1879 .
The positions of the stars in the General Catalogue are generally fixed by several observations and are accurate results ; this Catalogue was published in 1886 .
The volumes of the Zone observations were passed through the press , after Dr. Gould had left Cordoba , by his successor , and the last volume appeared only a short time before Dr. Gould s death .
The value of the work which Dr. Gould was enabled , by his own energy and the devotion of his assistants , to carry out whilst resident in Cordoba has received the fullest recognition of his contemporaries and has placed him in the first rank of practical astronomers .
But besides work of this class , Dr. Gould established , in 1849 , the 'Astronomical Journal , ' of which he continued the editor till 1861 , when its publication was suspended by the war ; but after his return from Cordoba this Journal was re-established , and is at present continued by his friends Dr. Chandler and Professors Asaph Hall and Lewis Boss .
f Dr. Gould married in 1861 , Mary Apthorp Quincy , daughter oi the Hon. Josiah Quincy ; Mrs. Gould died in 1883 , and to her memory the ' Zone Catalogue of Stars ' is dedicated .
Dr. Gould s Ill death , which occurred November 26 , 1896 , followed an accidental fall down sonic steps .
There is a list of 82 papers by Dr. Gould , in the ' Catalogue of Scientific Papers , ' published by the Royal Society .
Dr. Gould was a Foreign Member of the Royal Society , a Foreign Member of the Royal Astronomical Society , a Corresponding Member of the French Academy of Sciences , and a member of very many other learned societies .
In 1883 he received the Gold Medal of the Royal Astronomical Society .
, E. J. S. Edward Ballard , who died on the 19th January , 1897 , will be identified always with the Central Public Health Authority of this country , the scientific repute of which his labours have done so much to enhance .
As a sanitarian , however , Ballard 's own reputation was assured ere he joined , in 1871 , the Medical Staff of the Privy Council Office .
At that date he had for sixteen years held office as Medical Officer of Health for Islington , exhibiting throughout abilities , investigatory and administrative , which had served to render him conspicuous among the representatives of English sanitary knowledge and practice .
In Ballard , Simon , then Medical Adviser to the Government , was not slow to recognise a man of the type essential for his purpose in building up the future Medical Department of the State .
It was Simon 's business , no doubt , at that juncture , to discover , as inspectors , men capable of developing into the Ballards , Buchanans , and Netten-Radcliffes of after-days .
Nevertheless that he did discover these men , and as well secured their services , must redound ever to his credit in the annals of English sanitary progress .
% Ballard was born in 1820 at Islington , a parish with which throughout his seventy-six years of life he remained closely associated .
Here , at Islington School , he received his early education ; here he was apprenticed , his " master " being parochial surgeon and workhouse medical officer ; here , for many years , he practised as a physician , both before and after appointment as District Medical Officer of Health ; and here also he resided during the whole of his twenty years of Government service .
At the early age of seventeen , Ballard commenced , as apprentice , his medical career ; at nineteen he entered the Medical School of University College .
Here he seems to have at once exhibited an industry in the accumulation of facts and an aptitude for exact observation of altogether exceptional order , qualities of mind which then , as in after life , rendered his work always so entirely trustworthy .
His career at University College and at the University of London was a distinguished one .
He graduated M.B. in 18-13 , and M.D. in IV 1844 , winning at each of his several examinations honours in the way of scholarships , exhibitions , and gold medals .
He became , as a consequence , Medical Tutor to , and later on was elected Fellow of .
University College .
For ten or a dozen years subsequent to graduation , Ballard practised as a physician , though at the same time exercising tutorial functions and writing on professional subjects .
At this stage of his career he joined the Medico-Chirurgical Society , serving the Society as Referee of Papers , as Councillor , and finally as Vice-President .
But it was.not until 1856 , when he accepted the post of Medical Officer of Health for Islington , that he entered on what proved to be his life-work .
In those days the sanitary functions alike of health officer and of local authority 'were ill-defined or not defined at all .
Ballard had to educate himself , and to educate also his masters , in matters pertaining to public health ; and this , on his appointment , he at once proceeded to do , with that singleness of heart and ignoring of self-advantage which throughout his public life distinguished the man .
Thus , while inculcating on his authority the broad and general lines on which they should proceed in remedying the sanitary shortcomings of their district , Ballard was hour by hour studying in infinite detail series on series of facts , local and other , the right apprehension of which was , as he was very sure , necessary to fit him as a trustworthy and far-sighted adviser in the interests of the health of his district .
It was in this way that Ballard made commencement at Islington of those studies of his respecting the influence of various trades on health , and respecting the relation of " Sickness " to Mortality , which subsequently , when in Government service , he extended to the whole country , with such credit to himself and to the Department of State which he served .
In further illustration of his foresight as to questions of public health likely to arise in the future , may be cited his essay ' On Vaccination : its Value and alleged Dangers .
Therein he elaborately discussed , with prescience almost , the very considerations which have only lately been occupying , for a series of years , the attention of a Royal Commission ; and he delivered , in 1868 , practically the same judgment on the subject as that announced in 1806 by the Roya Commission in question .
Ballard 's concern for problems of the future did not , however , render him in any degree insensible to the day-by-day demands of the present , so far as his district was concerned .
Current events , in their etiological and in their administrative aspects , obtained from him always their full share of attention ; as , oi instance , the now historic Islington outbreak of " mi -en eri fever , " in 1870 .
At that date , notwithstanding previous observation by Dr. Michael Taylor , of Penrith , respecting milk-conveyed infection , little was with certainty known on the subject , and Ballard himself was ( as he has told the writer ) altogether sceptical as to any real relation between the fever and the suspected milk-service .
Nevertheless , he set to work in his customary fashion to collect all the facts for and against causation of the fever outbreak by means of milk ; and , as a result , not only did he convince himself that in the particular instance the suspected milk had actually disseminated the poison of enteric fever , but also he formulated in this connexion such an array of circumstantial evidence as to afford to other minds presumption short Only of absolute proof that the particular milk had had chief concern in the outbreak .
His report on the subject has necessarily served as a model to later investigators .
The limits of space proper for a " notice " such as this forbid anything beyond mere attempt at indicating what sort of a man Ballard was .
The work that he did in afterdays under the Local Government Board needs not to be set out .
He will be known hereafter , as has been well said of him by Simon , as one of the chief confirmers and extenders of the sanitary science of his age ; his researches on effluvium nuisances , on food-poisoning , on infantile diarrhoea , on epidemic pneumonia ; and on a variety of matters etiological and administrative , are duly recorded in the chronicles of the Medical Officers of the Privy Council and Local Government Board .
As regards his work , official and post-official , in later years , it may be remembered that much of it was done in defiance of increasing bodily infirmity .
Intellectually , Ballard remained ever young , and bodily infirmity could not discourage or curb his efforts to master the unknown .
After retiring from office he continued , as a labour of love , his researches into the etiology ol diarrhceal disease , and he left , under his will , the data thus accumulated by him to the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board .
On this subject he was still working day by day when attacked by capillary bronchitis , which proved fatal in the short space of two days .
Ballard was destitute of personal ambition .
He Was content with his work , and with appreciation of that work by those competent to judge of it .
He sought neither honours nor emolument .
^ From Government he obtained no honours at all ; and such lecognition as his work brought him from Medicine and from Science was but tardily bestowed .
W. IT .
P. Alexander Henry Green , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford , was born at Maidstone , October 10 , 1832 .
He was the son of the Rev. Ihomas Sheldon Green , formerly Fellow of Christ College , Cambridge , who at the VOL. LXII .
C VI time of the birth of his son Henry was head master of the Grammar School , Ashby-de-la-Zouch.* Green received his early educaiion in his father 's grammar school at Ashby ; and the man whooriginally inspired him with his life-lona regard for geology was the Rev. W. H. Coleman , one of the masters in the Asliby School .
Coleman and his pupil were fortunate not only in living in a district of exceptional geological interest , but also in the circumstance that a few years previously ( 1834 ) Mr Mammat , a local geologist , had made the structure of the neighbourhood classic in his well-known work i Geological Facts ' Coleman , who seems to have been not only a scientific enthusiast but a man of singularly loveable character , died young .
His memory was fondly cherished by his pupil , who always spoke of him in after years with great personal affection , and dedicated to his memory his own work on ' Physical Geology .
' In the course of a few years Green made himself so familiar with the structure of the Ashby country that when Professor ( afterwards Sir Andrew ) Ramsay paid a visit for the purpose of examining the district on benalf of the National Geological Survey , he was at once referred to Green as the acknowledged local authority on the subject .
Ramsay soon convinced himself of the young man 's remarkable scientific abilities ; and , always on the look out for exceptional geological talent , suggested that if he desired to devote his life to geological work he should become a candidate for a post upon the National Survey .
From Ashby School , Green proceeded to Caius College , Cambridge .
In 1855 he was placed sixth among the Wranglers in the Mathematical Tripos , and wTas elected a Fellow of his College in the same year .
During his tenure of his Fellowship he took pupils in mathematics at his own College , and afterwards held masterships in mathematics at two private schools .
But although mathematics had gained for him his high position in the University , and the teaching of mathematics had a special charm for him , yet the science of geology had obtained too strong a hold upon his mind and his sympathies to be relinquished .
The love of the science which had been awakened in his early life by Coleman , and his own keen interest and pleasure in the pursuit of personal geological investigation had both become intensified and fixed at Cambridge by the eloquent teachings of Sedgwick ; and in 1861 Green applied for , and was appointed to , a post on the Geological Survey of England and Wales .
His connexion with the * I have to thank Professor T. G. Bonney , F.R.S. , Mr. H. B. Woodward , F.R.S. , Mr. W. W. " Watts , M.A. , and others , for information and kindly assistance in the preparation of this memoir .
vii Survey lasted from 1861 to 1874 .
He ranked as an assistant geologist from 1861 to 1867 , and as a geologist to the close of his Survey career .
During the time of his connexion -with the Survey , he was engaged first in mapping the Jurassic rocks in the Midlands , and afterwards in surveying the Carboniferous rocks in Derbyshire , Yorkshire , and the bordering counties .
The broader results of his field work became embodied in a large number of published maps of the Geological Survey , some upon the 1-inch and some upon the 6-inch scale .
But several detailed survey memoirs , descriptive of the country surveyed by himself and his colleagues , were written wholly or in part by him .
Among these may be mentioned " The Geology of Banbury " ( 1864 ) , " Geological Description of the Country round Stockport " ( 1866 ) , " Tadcaster " ( 1869 ) , " Dewsbury " ( 1871 ) , " Barnsley " ( 1878 ) , and " Wakefield " ( 1879 ) .
A memoir on the geology of North Derbyshire , of which the first edition was issued in 1869 and the second in 1887 , was also written chiefly by Mr. Green .
But his most important survey publication was his " Geology of the Yorkshire Coalfields , " issued in 1878 .
This work is one of the largest , and from an economic point of view , certainly the most important memoir of a single coalfield yet published by the Geological Survey of England and Wales .
It gives an exhaustive account of the structure and economic aspects of all those parts of the great Yorkshire coalfield which lie around the chief manufacturing centres of that county .
It is a complete record of the detailed work laboriously accomplished by Mr. Green and his colleagues on the Survey , and it contains one of the best descriptions of the British coal measures in the language .
From this time forward Mr. Green became naturally regarded as one of the leading British authorities upon all geological matters connected with coal and coal mining , and the relationship of geological structure to economics in general .
In 1870 he resigned his post on the Survey , having been appointed Professor in Geology in the newly founded Yorkshire College at Leeds .
Students of geology , however , were few in number , and funds were not superabundant ; but Green 's energy and abilities found ample scope , for , in addition to holding the geological chair , he was appointed to the Professorship of Mathematics in the same College , and he acted also as lecturer upon the subject of Physical Geography .
Professor Green 's connexion with the Yorkshire College ceased in 1888 , when , upon the resignation of Professor Prestwich , he was appointed to the Chair of Geology in the University of Oxford .
He threw himself with his characteristic energy heartily into his new work , giving not only the ordinary courses of lectures and laboratory viii instruction , but bolding special excursion classes and delivering occasional courses of lectures to extra-University students .
Early in 1895 he suffered from a severe attack of influenza .
From this be never seems to have fully recovered , and in his enfeebled state the ceaseless strain of work and responsibility soon began to tell severely upon his general health .
Early in August , 1896 , he had a paralytic stroke .
This affected his right side and conflned him to bed } but he wrote to his friends cheerfully , through an amanuensis , that he was making good progress , and hoped before many weeks were over to be at work again .
But these hopes were , alas , illusive , and a second attack on August 19 proved fatal .
Professor Green was M.A. of both Cambridge and Oxford , and a Fellow and Vice-President of the Geological Society of London .
In 1886 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society , on the Council of which he served in 1894 and 1895 .
In 1890 he filled the office of President of Section 0 ( Geology ) at the meeting of the British Association at Leeds .
He was Examiner in Geology to the Universities of Durham and Cambridge , Examiner for the Home and Indian Civil Services , Assistant Examiner in Physiography to the Science and Art Department , and , at the time of his death , one of the Examiners in Geology for the University of London .
Professor Green contributed occasional original papers to the Geological Society and to various scientific magazines .
Among these may be mentioned his papers on the " Carboniferous Rocks of the North of England " and on " Sub-aerial Denudation , " " The Geology of Donegal " and " The Geology of the Malvern Hills .
" But his publications in this department of geology , when compared with those of many of his geological contemporaries , are relatively few and insignificant .
On the practical side of the science , however , there wet not many who accomplished so much or whose reputation was so widespread or so well deserved .
His life-long acquaintance with the details of geological structure , his clear head and ms sound iudo-ment , rendered his advice on matters of engineering geology ol keat value ; and , as a consequence , his services were being continu-ally called into requisition in economic undertakings , especial those in reference to coal mining and to water supp.y .
He was eneaged in many of the most important operations of this nature carried out in Britain during the last thirty years He also visited parts of South Africa in the pursuit of his practical work an this way he was able to obtain a considerable insight into its lit* e-1 nown oeology .
The paper in which he brought his African results before the Geological Society is one of the most important contnbu- " - rrs in a volume of 'Essays upon Scientific Subjects , issued y IX Professors of the Yorkshire College , and he published a popular little work upon the ' Birth and Growth of Worlds .
' But the book by which Green was most widely known among geologists and lovers of geology was his ' Manual of Physical Geology for Students and General Readers , ' the first edition of which was published in 1876 , and which attained to a third edition in 1883 .
This manual is admittedly the best English work in this branch of the science .
It is remarkably typical of its author , thoroughly practical and almost painfully conscientious ; it is lucid and modest , but at the same time original and bold ; and it has done more , perhaps , than any other work to foster a wide appreciation of physical geology .
In this work we see Green at his best .
His deep love for his science and its students is evident in every chapter .
His delight in the beauties of literature and in good literary style gives a peculiar charm to the book as a whole ; and the mathematical bent of his mind is evident in the crystallographic part of the work and in his original methods of representing outerops of strata and the like , methods which have subsequently proved of especial utility in the advance of geological science .
Professor Green 's geological teaching in his lectures , though not perhaps calculated to move to enthusiasm , was exact and thorough .
His lectures were usually illustrated by careful experiments , and were directed less to the presentation of geological facts and accepted theories than to the inculcation of the true scientific method of research and habit of reasoning .
But as an original worker in and as a teacher of practical field geology Green had few equals .
His own life training , his special artistic abilities , and his love of detail all conspired to this end ; and there can be no question that it is to his labours and teaching that British stratigraphical geology owes much of its present influence .
In the death of Professor Green not only has Oxford University lost a most distinguished member of its professorate , but geology has lost a steady and fruitful worker , one who loved the science entirely for its own sake , and whose life was spent in quietly labouring for its advancement .
His wide knowledge of literature and of general science , and his deep and unbiased appreciation of all modes of their progress , made him a most pleasant companion ; while his calm judgment and his cautious habit of mind rendered him an invaluable colleague .
Always frank and fearless in the expression of an opinion at which he himself had arrived , he was , nevertheless , so hearty , so genial , and so unselfish that his loss will be most keenly felt , not only by all his fellow workers in the science , but by a still wider circle of loving friends .
C. L. VOL. LXII .
d Edward James Stone was born in London on the 28t , h February , 1831 .
As a child his constitution was delicate , so that soon after entering the City of London School his health broke down , and he was sent to the country for several years , where he was educated at a private school until ready to enter King 's College , London .
Although his higher education only began at the age of 20 , he took a scholarship at Queens ' College , Cambridge , in 1856 , whence he graduated as Fifth Wrangler in 1859 , and was immediately elected to a Fellowship .
The following year he was selected for the important position of Chief Assistant at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , his predecessor in that post , the Rev. R. Main , having been appointed Radcliffe Observer at Oxford .
With what diligence he applied himself to the duties of his office and how wide a view he took of his responsibilities , is made evident by the series of important papers which he soon afterwards began to communicate to the Royal Astronomical Society .
His work was obviously congenial , he had a marked inborn capacity for dealing with large masses of figures , a high estimate of the practical importance of the work on which he was engaged , sound mathematical training , and an almost impatient desire to derive from the long series of Greenwich observations results which would be of immediate value to science .
It is not difficult to trace the origin of the line of research which Stone subsequently followed with such zeal and pertinacity .
Fresh from study of the lunar and planetary theories , so far as these subiects were treated in his Cambridge curriculum , the attention of the youno* astronomer was early arrested by the interesting problems which were then opening up in consequence of the researches o Hansen and Le Verrier .
, .
, . .
We have a statement of the motif of Stone s first work m the introductory paragraphs of his first astronomical paper* " Deter-mination of the Solar Parallax from N.P.D. Observations of Mars at Greenwich and Williamstown .
\#171 ; In his tables of Mars , published in the 'Annals of the Imperial Observatory ' Paris , 1861 , M. Le Verrier remarks that it is impossible to leconc fte Observations of Mars with theory without attributing to the perihelion a motion ..renter than any which can be obtained except by a sensible increase thirtieth part .
" Le Verrier deduced the same result from a discussion of the latitudes * ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 23 , 1863 , p. 183 .
XI and motion of the node of Yen ns .
The difficulties raised in the theory of Mercury , although not removed , were slightly diminished by the same increase of the earth 's mass .
' ' In his solar tables , M. Le Verrier has adopted the value 8\95 " for the mean equatorial horizontal solar parallax , this value was obtained by determining from observation the coefficient of the lunar equation , and assuming the mean lunar parallax and data furnished by the theories of precession and nutation .
" The way in which M. Le Verrier has thus evolved from the theories of Venus , the Earth , and Mars , the necessity of the value of the mean solar parallax much greater than the usually received value 8*57 " , and not differing greatly from 8-95 " , must render it extremely probable that the true value of the sun 's mean parallax does not differ greatly from that quantity .
" Stone then proceeds to discuss the Greenwich and Williamstown observations , and derives a value of 8'932 " for the solar parallax .
In the ' Monthly Notices ' for May , 1863 , Stone remarks that in the luuar theories of Plana , Pontecoulant , and Lubbock the coefficient of the parallactic inequality deduced with the usually received values of the involved constants amounts to 122T " , which , if we increase the value of the mean solar parallax by a thirtieth part , becomes 126'2 " , coinciding closely with the observed values as derived by Airy , viz.:\#151 ; 124'7 " from meridian and 125-5 " from altazimuth observations .
He suggests that it would be a point of interest to determine whether Hausen 's lunar theory would bear any considerable increase in the mean solar parallax .
Stone had apparently overlooked a letter of Hansen 's , * in which the writer says :\#151 ; " The coefficient of the parallactic equation I found to be 125-705 " , ** " an amount exceeding any which has hitherto been assigned , and which indicates a greater value of the sun 's parallax than has been deduced from the observations of the1 transit of Venus .
The Greenwich observations , exclusive of any others , .assign the foregoing value of the parallactic inequality , and the Dorpat observations nearly the same value .
I cannot , therefore , alter it .
" In the following number of the ' Monthly Notices , 't Hansen , in reply to Stone , refers to the above quoted paragraph , and in the same periodical for November , 1863 , gives with more detail , as the result of his researches , the value 8'9159 " for the mean solar parallax .
Till the note of alarm was thus sounded by Hansen in 1854 , and echoed by Le Verrier in 1861 , astronomers had almost universally * ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' May , 1854 .
t June , 1863 .
d 2 Xll accepted as definitive the value of the solar parallax found by Encke from his discussion of the Transits of Venus of 1761 and 1769 , viz.:\#151 ; 8-5 7 " .
Winnecke , who proposed the practical programme for the observations of Mars in 1862 , discussed the thirteen corresponding observations made at Pulkowa and the Cape , * and found for the solar parallax 8-964 " .
This , together with Stone 's result already quoted , seemed to prove , from the practical as well as from the theoretical side , that the then accepted value of this fundamental constant of astronomy was probably at least one thirtieth part of its amount in error .
The question of the exact redetermination of the solar parallax became at once one of supreme interest , and , as Airy put it , " the noblest problem in astronomy .
" Stone threw himself into its discussion with his characteristic vigour .
In the ' Memoirs of the R.A.S.'f he discusses afresh the meridian observations of Mars made at Greenwich in 1862 , combining them with those made at Williamstown and the Cape of Good Hope , and derives for the solar parallax 8-945 " .
In May , 1865 , he communicated to the R.A.S. an important memoir on the " Constant of Lunar Parallax , " in which he derived the value of that constant , as defined by Adams , from a series of observations of the moon made at the Cape Transit Circle in the years 1856-61 , combined with corresponding observations made at Greenwich .
Up to the present time Stone 's result is accepted by astronomers as the most reliable direct determination of this important constant .
In the ' Monthly Notices ' for April , 1867 , Stone calls attention to a slight numerical error in the computation of the value of the mass of the moon which was employed by Le Verrier in his derivation of the solar parallax from the known relations between the parallaxes of the sun and moon , the mass of the moon , and the lunar equation .
With this revised value of the moon 's mass ( computed from Le Verrier 's adopted values of the constants of precession and nutation ) and with the value of the lunar equation ( 6-50 " ) derived by Le Verrier from his discussion of the existing meridian observations of the sun , Stone derives for the solar parallax the value 8-91 " .
* 'Ast .
Nach .
, ' 1409 , April , 1863 .
f Vol. 33 , May , 1864 .
x 'Annales de l'Observatoire de Paris , ' vol. 4 , p. 101 .
Xlll In two notes* Stone reverts to the determination of the moon 's mass , and , adopting 50377 " for the luni-solar precession , and 0223 " for the constant of nutation , he derives for the moon 's mass the value 81-36 ' Following the same general line of research , Stone then undertakes a direct determination of the constant of nutation based on Greenwich N.P.D. observations of Polaris , 51 H Cephei , and $ Ursa ?
Minoris , and the R.A. observations of Polaris made with the transit circle 1851-65 .
The preliminary results of this work are published in the ' Monthly Notices , ' vol. 28 , 1868 , p. 229 , and vol. 29 , 1869 , p. 28 .
The complete discussion appears in the ' Memoirs of the R.A.S. , ' vol. 37 ; the resulting value of the constant of nutation is 9134 " .
In the concluding portion of this memoir , Stone draws attention to the strong evidence which his discussion gives of a periodic change of latitude , a subject which , had he followed it up , might have led to an earlier discovery of Chandler 's now well-known law of variation of latitude , but his thoughts were otherwise occupied .
In the supplementary number of the ' Monthly Notices ' for 1868 , Stone communicated to the Royal Astronomical Society his " Rediscussion of the Observations of the Transit of Venus of 1769 , " in which , after reverting to the above-quoted evidence in favour of an increase in the accepted value of the solar parallax , he proceeds to rediscuss the observations made at five stations where internal contacts of Venus with the sun 's limb were observed both at ingress and egress by ten observers .
An independent interpretation was put upon the language employed by each observer to describe the phenomena which he noted at different instants of time , and the assumption was made that such phenomena could be divided into two distinct classes\#151 ; viz. , true and apparent contacts\#151 ; separated by a definite interval of time .
This interval ( assumed to be constant for all observers ) was introduced in symbolical form into all the equations .
The solution of the equations so formed led to the value 8-91 " for the solar parallax , with the estimated probable error \#177 ; 0-02 " .
The observations were there represented as follows :\#151 ; * ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 28 , pp. 21 and 42 .
XIV Computed Computed minus mean .
Observer .
observed .
Station .
Hell Sajnovics ... . .
+2-8 Wardhus + 0'6S Wales Dymond ... . . .
-0-6 j\gt ; Hudson 's Bay -0T Chappe ... . . .
+0*5 1 V. Doz ... . . .
-0-4 \gt ; St. Josenh ... .
-1*6 Medina ... .
J Green Cook . .
+5-8 . .
-42 j\gt ; Otaheite + 0-8 -0-9 Kola -0-9 This is not the place in which to enter upon a detailed criticism of the above discussion ; nor , with the information now at our disposal from the subsequent Transits of Venus of 1874 and 1882 and other more recent sources , would it be fair to do so .
Although it is now certain that the above value of the solar parallax is about cent , too great , and that the representation of the observations conveys an impression of accuracy which is far greater than that obtainable in such observations , it is but justice to Stone 's memory to quote the opinion held at the time by astronomers of his own country in regard to this work .
In February , 1869 , on presenting the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical Society to Mr. Stone for his " Rediscussion of the Observations of the Transit of Venus in 1769 and his other contributions to Astronomy , " the President , Admiral Manners , said :\#151 ; " By this important investigation , Mr. Stone has earned for himself the gratitude of astronomers of all countries .
He has shown , beyond all doubt , that the method pursued by his illustrious countryman Halley , when fairly treated , is capable of furnishing a value of the solar parallax commensurate in precision with the expectations formed of it .
" But this is not all .
Mr. Stone , by his researches in this instance , has wiped from astronomy a reproach , which did not indeed legitimately attach to it , but which only one of those intellectual triumphs which from time to time have adorned the annals of our science was capable of extirpating .
" In order to illustrate the sequence of Stone 's researches , we have thus far recorded only such of them as bear upon the determination of the solar parallax and its allied constants .
We must now return to other works which he carried out during the period that he was chief assistant at Greenwich .
Amongst the most important of these was the large share which he took , under Airy 's direction , in the preparation of the Greenwich seven-year catalogue of 2022 stars for the equinox 1860 .
Throughout his whole life , one of Stone 's most characteristic qualities was his high sense of responsibility and strict regard to official duty .
However absolving may have been the independent researches in which he was engaged , his official duties were at all times his first consideration .
These occupied not only his official hours at the Observatory , but he gave to them and to strictly allied work much of the labour of his private time .
In the Greenwich catalogue for 1850 , Airy employed the very unsatisfactory proper motions of the British Association Catalogue of Stars .
For the formation of the 1860 catalogue the proper motions determined by Main* were available .
Recognising the importance of Main 's work , Stone continued it , and , in the Memoirs of the R.A.S. , ' 1861 , vol. 33 , gave , for 460 stars of the seven-year catalogue , proper motions computed by reducing Bradley 's observations ( as derived in Bessel 's Fundamenta ) to the equinox of 1860 , and comparing the results with the corresponding places of the 1860 catalogue .
A further proof of his deep interest in his official duties is given in his paper " On the Accuracy of the Fundamental Right Ascensions of the Greenwich Seven-year Catalogue for 1860 , published in vol. 34 of the ' Memoirs of the R.A.S. , ' where he specially discusses the accuracy of the fundamental right ascensions of 7 Pegasi , / 3 Geminorum , a. Virginis , and a Aquilse .
In November , 1867 , Stone communicated to the Royal Astronomical Society a paper " On Bessel 's Mean Refractions , " in which he showed that the tabular refractions of Bessel 's Fundamenta were too great , and required to be diminished by one five-hundredth pai t , in order to represent the Greenwich observations of circumpolar stars made in the years 1857\#151 ; 65 .
This , , important conclusion has since been fully corroborated at the A\ras lib urn Observatory , in the United States , by Comstock in his determination of the constant of aberration , and also by a discussion of the Cape and Greenwich observations.f Nyren 's discussion of the Pulkowa refractions also points to the same conclusion .
Besides the already mentioned important papers connected with well-marked lines of continuous research , we find no less than twenty notes of a more miscellaneous character , communicated by Stone to the Royal Astronomical Society .
These papers testify to the wide interest which he took in all contemporary astronomical research during the ten years he remained Chief Assistant at Greenwich .
In the early part of 1870 Sir Thomas Maclear resigned his post as Her Majesty 's Astronomer at the Cape , and in June of the same * * Memoirs R.A.S./ vols .
19 and 28 .
f Introduction to the ' Cape Catalogue ' for 1885 .
XVI year Stone was appointed his successor .
The thirty-six years of Maclear s directorate had been fruitful in many ways .
An arc of meridian had been measured , a splendid series of extra-meridian observations secured , and the greater part of all this work had been reduced and published .
Maclear 's inborn tastes had drawn him from a lucrative profession and forced him to become an astronomer .
He was by nature of an enthusiastic disposition and an ardent observer .
The clear skies at the Cape offered him ample opportunity to accumulate observations , but he was never provided with a staff sufficient to overtake arrears of redaction .
He had therefore to choose between limiting the number of observations or leaving many of them unreduced and unpublished whilst he secured as many more as he could .
He chose the latter alternative , and thus of the long series of meridian observations made during the thirty-six years of his directorate nothing had been published except the meridian observations of 1834 and such star places as were required for comet comparison stars , moon culminators , \amp ; c. Stone had for a long time recognised the special importance of forming an accurate and extensive catalogue of southern stars , and bad even endeavoured to persuade Airy to extend the range of magnitude of stars observed at Greenwich , and to construct a catalogue of northern stars complete to some such order of magnitude as the 7th .
In his introduction to the ' Cape Observations of 1871 , 1872 , and 1873 ' Stone states : " The chief inducement which led me to accept the appointment was the opportunity which the position afforded for the formation of a general catalogue of southern stars to about the 7th magnitude .
" It was therefore with enthusiasm and high resolve to construct such a catalogue that Stone betook himself to the Cape .
But his official instructions were imperative on one point , viz. , that he was to render the large number of meridian observations accumulated by Maclear available for the use of astronomers with as little delay as possible .
Such an instruction was one which would have discouraged most men .
" I found myself , " says Stone , * " with a very limited staff , unexpectedly confronted with the result of thirty-six years of miscellaneous observing in all states of reduction , nothing completed , and nothing which could be brought forward for publication and use without a very considerable expenditure of time and skilled labour .
I fear the course pursued of continuous miscellaneous observing without reduction has not tended to the advancement of accurate astronomy to any extent proportional to the labour expended upon the work , and still required to be expended upon it , before the results can be rendered useful .
Such observing is rarely conducted in a way to facilitate the subsequent reductions or to economise # Introduction to the ' Cape Catalogue 5 for 1860 .
XVII labour in observing .
This will be apparent to anyone who will count the number of observations of stars between 67 ' and 117 ' north polar distance , and consider that a catalogue formed from the results of other years would [ contain observations of these stars to very nearly the same relative extent .
Of the large number of observations accumulated here from 1832 to 1855 with the transit instrument and mural circles , the places of the southern stars , out of reach of northern observatories , will , when reduced , still be of value for proper motions , but the immense number of observations of well-known stars made here with the old instruments can now , I fear , never repay the labour required for their reduction ... ... ... ... .I have made these remarks , not only in justice to the present staff , and to explain the work upon which they have been employed , but because it was these considerations which led me to pass over the earlier observations , and to commence the systematic reductions with the year 1856 , when the transit circle was first brought into regular use .
I felt that these reductions could not be any longer delayed without the value of the results being greatly diminished .
I had , and still have , hopes that the data collected in the present catalogue for corresponding observations at the northern observatories would be found sufficient to meet the actual requirements of astronomers so far as these requirements can be met by the material collected here , and that I might be relieved from the laborious and somewhat useless task of completing the reductions of the earlier observations of stars whose positions have been fixed already with an accuracy greater than could be expected to be attained in the observations made with the , comparatively speaking , inferior instruments in use at this observatory before the introduction of the transit circle .
" We dwell somewhat on tliis point because inquiry has shown that these words convey precisely Stone 's frequently expressed views , and we can thus more fully admire the high sense of duty which prompted the self-sacrifice and devotion with which he applied himself to the subsequent execution of afk , uncongenial but honourable task .
The meridian results for the year 1856 were published by Stone in 1871 , for the years 1857 and 1858 in 1872 , and those for 1859 and 1860 in 1874 .
The general catalogue of 1159 stars , derived from all these observations and reduced to the equinox of 1860 , was published in the year 1873 .
In the interval of his regular labours Stone next devoted his attention to the examination and publication of the results of obsei -vations made with the transit instrument and mural circle in the years 1834 to 1840 .
Maclear had already reduced the whole of these observations , and Stone accepted these results generally as satisfactory , but he redetermined the azimuthal errors and re-reduced the observations of the close circumpolar stars .
rl he work of examination occupied Stone from time to time as opportunity offered , and " much progress was made in it during the comparative leisure enjoyed during my visit to England in 1875 .
" The results were XV111 finally published by Stone in 1878 , in the form of the ' Cape Catalogue of 2892 stars reduced to the equinox 1840 .
' But Stone did not allow these labours to interfere with his main object .
Within a month of his arrival at the Cape a working list of stars within 5 ' of the South Pole had been prepared , and observations with the transit circle were commenced .
The work was prosecuted with systematic vigour notwithstanding the loss of two assistants\#151 ; Mr. Sinfield , who died in September , 1871 , and Mr. Mann , his chief assistant , who , after a year 's illness , died in April , 1873 .
Although there was considerable delay in replacing these valued assistants , Stone was able to publish in 1876 the annual results of the Cape observations for 1871 , 1872 , and 1873 , containing accurate places of all Lacaille 's stars within 15 ' of the South Pole , and of nearly all the stars to the 7th magnitude within the same zone .
At the same time he was able to announce that the similar stars within 35 ' of the South Pole had already , in December , 1875 , been observed , and arrangements made for the observation of the next zone , 135 ' to 145 ' N.P.D. , in the year 1876 ; that in the year 1877 the work , if persevered with , should overlap that of some of the northern observatories , and with the zone 115 ' to 125 ' N.P.D. , it might perhaps be brought to a close in 1878 .
This programme was fulfilled to the letter , and the observations of the zones were completed in the end of 1878 .
Meanwhile a large stereographic projection of the southern hemisphere had been prepared , and upon it were projected the places of all the stars which had already been observed , and wherever lacunae appeared within the limits of R.P.D. 115 ' to 180 ' , efforts were made during the first four months of 1879 to fill them up by observing stars of rather a lower magnitude than the 7tb of Lacaille 's scale .
During the same period also such control observations as seemed necessary were taken , and the whole work of observation was completed .
The reductions had been rigorously kept up to date , and before the end of May , 1879 , the whole of the star places had been reduced to the equinox of 1880 , the means taken and the precessions and secular variations computed .
The Rev. Robert Main , Radcliffe Observer at Oxford , died on the 9th of May , 1878 .
Stone , having nearly fulfilled the object for which he came to the Cape , became a candidate for the post , and was soon afterwards elected to it .
The Radcliffe Trustees yielded to the request that Stone might be allowed a year to complete his work at the Cape , and the Rev. Charles Pritchard , then Savilian Professor of Astronomy at Oxford , was appointed interim director .
On the 27th May , 1879 , Stone sailed from the Cape , taking with him all the documents necessary for the preparation of his great southern catalogue for press .
XIX At Oxford , Stone applied himself to this work with such energy , that in 1881 the Cape Catalogue of 12,441 stars for the equinox 1880 was passed through the press , and its publication was welcomed by astronomers as one of the most important contributions ever made to sidereal astronomy .
His personal welcome amongst his colleagues was no less cordial .
He was at once elected a Vice-President of the Royal Astronomical Society , and , on the vacation of the presidency by Mr. Hind , Stone was elected to the chair .
We must now briefly review Stone 's other labours during his stay at the Cape .
In 1871 he published an experimental determination of the velocity of sound , based on chronographic determinations of the interval which elapsed between the flash of the Cape Town time gun and the instant when the noise of the report reached the Cape Observatory .
Various papers on the theory of probabilities , including a criterion for the rejection of discordant observations , also appear from Stone 's hand during this period , and there are sundry papers in the 4 Monthly Notices ' on proper motions of stars , observations of comets and variable stars , \amp ; c. , which testify to his continued interest in 'general astronomy , notwithstanding his preoccupation in the great work of his catalogue .
In 1874 he undertook an expedition to Klipfonteiu , in Namaqualand , and successfully observed the solar eclipse there on the 16th April of that year .
He employed a slit spectroscope , with two dense flint prisms of 60 ' , and was successful in observing the reversal of the Fraunhofer lines at the instant of disappearance of the sun s limb .
On the same expedition he made a valuable series of magnetic observations in Namaqualand , the first series of its kind secuied in that region .
% In 1877 ( Appendix to the Cape Observations for 1874 ) he published a set of star constant tables for computing the apparent places of stars from their mean places , or versa .
These tables have been largely used , first at the Cape , and subsequently at Greenwich and other observatories .
When the 4 Parliamentary Report on the Telescopic Observations of the Transit of Venus made in the expeditions of the British Government ' reached the Cape , Stone immediately recast the phases , recomputed the results , and by return mail communicated to the Royal Astronomical Society* the results of his rediscussion , which gave , instead of the official x'esult ( 8*76 ' ) , the value 8-89 " for the solar parallax .
He followed up this communication by a further paper published in the next number of the 4 Monthly Is otices , * March , 1878 .
XX in which , he included a discussion of the Cape observations , and arrived at a very similar conclusion .
At Oxford , Stone had barely finished the work connected with his great catalogue when he was nominated secretary of a committee of the Royal Society , to advise the Treasury and Admiralty with respect to the steps which should be taken for observation of the Transit of Yenus , in 1882 .
An executive committee was appointed by Government , in 1881 , and , at the request of this committee , Stone undertook the duties of " Directing Astronomer in connexion with the arrangements for the observations of the Transit of Yenus , and with the subsequent deduction of the results .
" The Radcliffe Observatory was converted into a training school for the observers , and Stone devoted himself , heart and soul , to the organization of the various expeditions .
The thoroughness with which he did this work , and the great labour which he gave to it , are only fully known to those who were connected with the expeditions .
Stone 's report , which is attached to that of the executive committee and published in a Parliamentary Blue Book , was issued in 1887 .
It gives a detailed precis cf all the observations , and derives from the observations of various classes of contact different values of the solar parallax .
Prom the ' Report of the Council of the Royal Astronomical Society for February , 1888 , ' the adopted value of the solar parallax from Stone 's discussion of the British Transit of Yenus observations , appears to be 8-832 " \#177 ; 0-024 " .
In 1883 , Stone communicated to the Royal Society a paper entitled " The principal Cause of the large Errors at present existing between the positions of the Moon , deduced from Hansen 's Tables and Observation , and the Cause of an apparent Increase in the secular acceleration in the Moon 's Mean Motion required by Hansen 's Tables , or of an apparent Change in the time of the Earth 's Rotation .
" This was soon followed by a communication to the Royal Astronomical Society of a paper entitled " On the Change of the Length of the Tabular Mean Solar Day which takes place with every Change in the adopted value of the Sun 's Mean Sidereal Motion .
" Stone 's contention was that by the adoption of Le Verrier 's Tables of the Sun in the ' Nautical Almanac ' of 1864 , and in subsequent editions of the same work , for the computation of the sun 's longitude and the sidereal time at mean noon , instead of Carlini 's tables , previously employed for this purpose , a per salturn change was made in the unit of time used by astronomers , the original and cumulative effect of which , from 1864 , was to change by twenty-seven seconds XXI the absolute instant of any nominal mean time computed in the beginning of 1883 , and that this error accumulates at the rate of 1-488 per annum .
It was in vain that Airy , Adams , and Cayley endeavoured privately to convince Stone of the error of this conclusion , and to show him that the effect of the change in question was l/ 365th part of what he claimed it to be .
Adams then published a paper , * which explains the whole point at issue in the clearest and simplest manner , viz. , that mean solar time is measured , not by the sun 's mean motion in longitude ( as Stone 's theory supposes ) , but by the motion of the mean sun in angle , which is about 365 times greater in amount .
Cayley , Gaillot , and afterwards Newcomb , published notes and questions intended to put the matter in a way that should convince Stone of his error .
But no arguments or illustrations were of avail , and , during the last ten years of his life , almost the whole of his time which was not occupied by pressing official duty was employed in devising fresh methods of presenting his theory for discussion , or in comparing the places of the moon , as observed at Oxford , with Hansen 's tables both corrected and uncorrected for the term dS given by Stone 's theory .
By a very remarkable coincidence the present errors of Hansen 's Tables of the Moon agree within very narrow limits with the corrections dS , and it must have been this circumstance which completely blinded Stone 's eyes to the true state of the case .
What Stone 's theory does not explain is the simple fact that if no change had been made in the ' Nautical Almanac ' in 1864 , or , what is the same thing , if the mean solar times derived from Carlini 's ( or Bessel 's ) tables had been used to convert the sidereal times of observed transits of the moon at Oxfoid into Greenwich mean time , and if the mean times so computed had been used as arguments to derive the tabular place of the moon from Hansen 's tables , it would be found that the errors of Hansen 's tables in right ascension would have differed but a few hundredths of a second of time from what they would have been if computed from the data of the present ' Nautical Almanac .
' On taking up residence at Oxford , Stone found that the staff consisted of but one assistant , whose time was chiefly occupied in making and reducing the regular meteorological observations and observing stars for clock error .
Two assistants were added to the staff , a systematic examination of the transit circle was instituted , and regular meridian observing was begun in 1880 .
Plans were made for the construction of a catalogue of all stars to the 7th magnitude from N.P.D. 115 ' ( the northern limit of his Cape zones ) to the equator .
Observations were secured at a rate varying from about 2000 to 3500 per annum from 1881 to 1893 , these were regularly reduced and published in annual volumes , and in 1893 meridian * ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 44 , p. 43 .
XXII observing , except of the sun and moon and occasional stars , seems to have been suspended during the completion of the ' Radcliffe Catalogue ' for 1890 .
This catalogue contains places ( based generally on a minimum of three observations of each star , and many more of clock-stars and others ) of all stars to the 7th magnitude between N.P.D. 115 ' and the equator ; and , wherever gaps occur in the distribution of 7th magnitude stars , such gaps have been filled up by the observations of stars of a fainter order of magnitude .
The sun and moon were also regularly observed on the meridian , and a considerable number of occultations , comets and double stars were observed with the extra-meridian instruments .
In 1886 an excellent equatorial by T. Cooke and Sons , with an object glass of 10 inches aperture , was presented to the Radcliffe Observatory by Mr. J. Gurney Barclay , and with the aid of this fine instrument the value of the extra-meridian work was greatly enhanced .
In 1888 Stone co-operated with Yale , Leipzig , and the Cape in the heliometer observations of the minor planet Iris for solar parallax , and his staff contributed meridian observations of the planet and comparison stars .
In 1889 meridian observations of Victoria and Sappho and of their comparison stars were also made under Stone 's direction in connexion with the solar parallax campaign of that year .
In addition to all this astronomical work meteorological observations were systematically recorded , reduced and published .
Stone then planned the observation of similar meridian observations of all stars to the 7th magnitude in successive zones northwards from the equator , and the work was actually begun before his death .
Stone 's reductions of Hornsby 's observations of 7 Draconis made at the Radcliffe Observatory 1788-91 have been published in the ' Monthly Notices ' for June , 1895 , and show of what admirable quality these zenith sector observations are .
Hornsby 's observations , made with two brass quadrants of 8 feet radius and a transit instrument of 4 inches aperture , next attracted Stone 's attention , and before his death he had made considerable progress in reduction of the observations of 1774 .
Stone considers that these observations , extending as they do for a number of years subsequent to 1774 , promise results of very considerable value .
By thus bringing them to light and proving their excellence , Stone has opened for his successor a mine of scientific wealth which will certainly not be neglected .
In 1896 , Stone was a member of the party which accompanied Sir George Baden-Powell in his yacht to Nova Zembla , and was thus one of the few astronomers who were favoured with fine weather for observing the total eclipse of the sun of that year .
xxiii Stono secured successful observations ; the paper he wrote on the results of them was not printed before his death , but it will shortly appear in the memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society .
Stone 's scientific papers number in all about 150 , and cover a very wide range ; they were chiefly communicated to the Royal Astronomical Society .
Such , in brief , is the record of Stone 's labours .
Very very few astronomers have done more of solid and useful work for the advancement of astronomy .
But for the simultaneous and almost phenomenal labours of Gould at Cordoba , it might be said of Stone that he created our knowledge of the exact sidereal astronomy of the Southern Hemisphere .
Unlike Maclear and Gould , he was not a great observer ; at Greenwich he personally made about 2| per cent , of the observations secured there during the period 18G0 to 1869 ; at the Cape and Oxford he made very few of the observations , but he closely supervised his assistants , and laboured early and la/ te at every detail of reduction and examination .
Trained in the rigid and systematic school of Aiiy , and gifted with remarkable powers of speed , accuracy , and enduiance in computation , he was enabled to carry out , with a very small staff , the great record of work which he produced .
He made the chief part of Maclear 's meridian observations available for science , and createa his two great catalogues\#151 ; the Cape Catalogue of 12,441 stars ror 1880 .
and the Radcliffe Catalogue of 6424 stars for 1890 .
By these works his name will be chiefly remembered .
But the influence of a man so earnest and diligent as Stone was in most departments of astronomy , can never die ; it will live to inspire like zeal and devotion in others , who are seeking truth for truth s sake , as Stone did .
After a short and painless illness , Stone died suddenly at the Radcliffe Observatory on the 9th of May , 1897 , the nineteenth anniversary of the death of Main , his predecessor .
Stone was a Fellow of Queens ' College , Cambridge .
In 1868 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society , and , as already stated , was in 1869 awarded the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical Society .
He was a Corresponding Member of the Societe Rationale des Sciences Naturelles , Cherbourg , and Honorary Member of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester .
In 11 received the Lalande Medal of the Paris Academy of Sciences for his Cape catalogue ; in 1892 the University of Padua conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of Natural Philosophy , arid from March , 1883 , he was a Member of the Meteorological Council , London .
1 ) .
G. VOL. LX1I .
e XXIV On the 29th May , 1897 , died Julius von Sachs , Professor of Botany in the University of Wurzburg , after six weeks ' illness of acute phthisis , the result of influenza .
The following account of his life is based upon information , kindly supplied by members of his family , derived from a manuscript autobiography , which does not , however , extend beyond the year 1882 .
Julius Sachs was born at Breslau on October 2 , 1832 .
After quitting the gymnasium in 1845 , he appears to have turned his attention to biological studies , for in 1851 he became private assistant to the physiologist Purkyne at Prague .
Whilst there he entered upon a regular university course , devoting his attention to animal anatomy and physiology , and subsequently , for two whole years , to physics and mathematics .
He must , however , have also been studying botany at this time , for he soon began to publish botanical papers ; but it is not clear under what circumstances he pursued this study , for , though he inscribed himself for Kostelet-zky 's botanical lectures , it appears that he did not attend them .
In 1856 he took his doctor 's degree , the subject of his dissertation , which was not published , having been Diffusion .
Shortly after this he finally adopted a botanical career , establishing himself in 1857 as Privatdocent for plant-physiology in the University of Prague .
Whilst still at Prague , Sachs was invited by the Agricultural Academy of Tharandt , in Saxony , to write a memorandum on the importance of plant-physiology to agriculture , with the result that , in April , 1859 , he was appointed physiological assistant to the Agricultural Academy there .
In 1861 he was called to be the Director of the Polytechnic at Chemnitz , a post which he held for only four months , when he was transferred to Poppelsdorf , near-Bonn , as the Director of the Agricultural Academy at that place ; here he remained till 1867 , when he was nominated Professor of Botany in the University of Freiburg-in-Breisgau .
In 1868 he accepted the Chair of Botany in the Bavarian University of Wurzburg , where he remained until his death , in spite of calls to the Universities of Heidelberg , Vienna , Berlin , Jena , Bonn , and Munich .
He was nominated a G-eheimrath , and was ennobled by the King of Bavaria .
His election as Foreign Member of the Linnean Society dates from 1878 , and of the Royal Society from 1888 .
To give anything like an adequate account of Sachs ' labours would be to write the history of plant-physiology from 1857 to 1885 , after which time his active work , in consequence of ill-health , may be said to have ceased .
Nothing more that a mere sketch of his scientific career will be attempted . ?
It appears from the ' Catalogue of Scientific Papers , ' that Sachs activity as an author dates from the year 1853 , when he published three papers in the Bohemian journal ' Ziva , ' two of which were XXV zoological ( on the Craj fish and on and one botanical ( " Ueb .
das Wachsthnm der Pflanzen " ) , followed by a series of botanical papers , mostly morphological and systematic , Avhicb appeared in the same journal in the course of the years 1854-56 .
During this period two papers of his appeared in the \lt ; Botanische Zeitung ' ( 1855 ) on Collemand respectively ; the former of these is of special interest inasmuch as in it Sachs expresses views which nearly anticipated the theory of the structure of Lichens propounded by Schwendener in 1868 , and now almost universally accepted .
But it is not until 1857 that we find him devoting himself especially to that department of botany with which his name will always be associated , when ho commenced that senes of physiological investigations which he carried on , with scarcely an interval , for more than a quarter of a century .
The most important line of research which he struck out in what we may term his Prague-period , was that of investigating the metabolism of the plant by means of the micro-chemical examination of the tissues .
Beginning with the paper " Ueb .
einige never microscopisch-chemische Reactions-methoden , " * it led on to the series of " Keimungsgeschich-ten , " relating to a variety of plants ( bean , grasses , date , onion , Ac .
) , the'publication of which extended over a number of years , and which may be fairly said to have laid the foundation of our knowledge of micro-chemical methods , as also of both the morphological an physiological details of the process of germination .
The period of his tenure of office at Tharandt is memorable tor his resuscitation of the method of " water-culture , " originally suggested by Duhamel , t and the application of it to the investigation of the fundamental problems of nutrition .
It is to the introduction of this method that we owe whatever accurate knowledge we possess of the relative physiological importance of the various mineral constituents of the plant 's food .
Of the many valuable contributions to plant-physio ogy w nc i Sachs made whilst at Poppelsdorf ( 1861-67 ) , perhaps the most fundamentally important are those which relate to the function o chlorophyll .
Whilst Von Mohl and others had recognised the almost universal occurrence of starch-grains in the chloroplastids , it remain for Sachs to give the explanation of the fact .
Ho ascertained that the formation of starch-grains in chloroplastids is depen en 1 exposure to light ; in other words , upon the conditions already known to be essential for the absorption and decomposition of carbon dioxide by the green parts of plants .
Bringing these facts int o their proper correlation , lie arrived at the weighty conclusion that the * ' Sitzber .
d. k. Akad .
d. Wiss .
in Wien , ' vol. 26 , 18uS .
f ' Physique dcs Arbros , ' 1753 .
XXVI sfcarcli-grains to be found in chloroplastids are the first visible product of their assimilatory activity .
This period of Sachs ' life was that in which he first made his mark as a writer of books .
In 1865 appeared his ' Handbueh der Experimental-Physiologie der Pflanzen ' ( as vol. 4 of the uncompleted ' Handbucli der Physiologischen Botanik , ' edited by Hofmcister ) ; and although his well-known ' Lehrbuch der Botanik * was not actually published until 1868 , the work fairly belongs to the period under consideration .
In neither of these books do we find much indication of that literary ability which marks his later works , no doubt because their structure rendered any attempt at literary form impossible .
They are both of them mines of information , especially as regards the older botanical literature .
But they are much more than this .
Though they may both be included under the designation " text-book , " unlike most text-books they contain a large mass of original work on the part of the author .
Thus , they are not only learned , but also stimulating .
It is not too much to say that they have contributed very largely to the unprecedented expansion of morphological and physiological research which has taken place since their publication , a statement which is especially true with regard to this country .
They are generally admitted to be the best works of the kind which had appeared up to that time , and although they have now become somewhat antiquated , it is doubtful if they have been excelled by any such works which have appeared since .
One feature in them deserves special notice , and that is the manifestation , in the illustrations of the 'Lehrbuch ' in particular , of the remarkable artistic faculty which Sachs possessed .
The preparation of the earlier editions of the ' Lehrbuch ' is no doubt accountable for the relatively small number of original memoirs which Sachs published during the years 1865-72 , a period which included his brief sojourn at Freiburg and his settlement at Wurzburg .
But he had not been long in Wurzburg before he resumed his researches , the more important of which were published , together with contributions by his colleagues and pupils , in the well-known ' Arbeiten des Botanischen Instituts in Wurzburg , ' the first number of which appeared in 1871 .
His papers in the first volume of the ' Arbeiten ' ( 1871.-74 ) all have reference to the phenomena of growth , and include bis remarkable investigations into the periodicity of growth in length , which clearly established the retarding influence of the highly refrangible rays of the spectrum .
The contents of the second volume ( 1878-82 ) arc of very great interest .
We find here the last of his researches on growth , introducing the " clinostat , " an important addition to the apparatus of * An English translation of the third German edition was published by the Oxford University Press in 1875 ; and another , from the 4th German edition ( 1870 ) , was published in 1882 .
XXV11 experimental physiology , to which Sachs had already so largely contributed .
Then there are his classical papers on the structure of and the arrangement of cells in growing-points ; and finally the papers in which he elaborated his " imbibition-theory " of the transpiration -current .
Though it now seems probable that this theory is insufficient to explain the facts\#151 ; the problem , however , still remaining unsolved in spite of many subsequent attempts at solution\#151 ; yet these papers contain a great mass of important observations , the result of enormous labour and experimental skill , which must be taken into account by all who attempt investigation in this direction .
This volume also contains the noteworthy papers on " Stoff und Form der Pflanzenorgane , " an attempt at a material explanation of the differences distinguishing the chief members of the plant-body , as also the various metamorphosed forms of one and the same member .
This attempted explanation , though it cannot be said to have met with general acceptance , has still its adherents , and is to some extent borne out by his subsequent observations , published in the third volume of the ' Arbeiten , ' on the suppression of the development of flowers in plants grown in light which has passed through a solution of quinine , and has consequently lost the ultra-violet rays .
The third volume of the ' Arbeiten ' ( 1884-88 ) contains relatively little of Sachs ' own work .
The only paper of importance , in addition to the one just mentioned , is that entitled " Ein Beitrag sir Kenntniss der Ernahrungsthatigkeit der Blatter , " which is an exhaustive study of the assimilatory activity of the leaf , as also of the distribution of the products of this activity from the leaf to the rest of the plant .
With this third volume Sachs ' work as an investigator may be said to have closed , though he subsequently published from time to time in ' Flora , ' a series of " Physiologische Notizen " which , though slight , never failed to be suggestive and interesting , as his writings always were.* Amongst the more important of his achievements whilst Professor at Wurzburg must be reckoned his 4 Grcschiclite der Botanik and his ' Vorlesungen ueber Pflanzenphysiologie .
' In these works his great literary ability had scope to display itself .
The style is lucid , with many brilliant passages ; and the matter , widely different as it is in the two books , is handled with complete mastery in both .
The ' Geschichte , 't which appeared in 1875 , though by no means a bulky volume , presents a vivid picture , heightened here and there with touches of caustic criticism , of the gradual development of the science from the middle of the sixteenth century up to the year 1800 .
It is not only brilliant , but also learned , and its preparation must * An edition of Sacks ' collected papers was published in 1892-93 .
t An English translation was published by the Oxford University Press in 1890 .
XXV111 have involved a , vast amount of research into the older botanical works , not a few of which have been thus rescued from oblivion .
The ' Vorlesungen ueber Pflanzenphysiologie , '* which appeared in 1882 ( second edition 1887 ) , was prepared to take the place of the physiological sections of the ' Lehrbuch , ' the preparation of a revised edition of the morphological and systematic portions being assigned to a former colleague , Professor Goebel.f The method of the ' Vorlesungen ' is , however , altogether different from that of the Lehrbuch .
There is in it but little trace of that laborious compilation of facts from all sources which is the characteristic feature of the ' Lehrbuch .
' On the contrary , the references are comparatively few .
The book is , in fact , an exposition of the physiology of plants from his own standpoint ; it is his confession of faith .
In reading it one seems to hear Sachs himself speaking , an illusion which is to some extent justified by the fact that it was taken down from his dictation .
In closing this brief appreciation of his scientific work , it only remains to point out that there is scarcely a branch of botanical knowledge to which Sachs did not make some important and lasting addition .
As a lecturer Sachs was pre-eminent : he possessed great readiness of utterance , together with rare force and lucidity .
His experimental lectures in particular will not easily be forgotten by those who have had the privilege of attending them .
The eloquent speech , the pictorial illustration\#151 ; generally by means of a stick of charcoal and large sheets of white paper\#151 ; the manipulative dexterity , all combined to make these lectures fascinating and to rivet attention , even though their duration was never less than , and often exceeded , two hours .
But , beyond all his other gifts , Sachs was endowed with a vigorous and stimulating personality , with the faculty of arousing in others the enthusiasm with which he himself was overflowing .
In his best days at W iirzburg , his laboratory was filled with students from all the countries of Europe .
Among those who worked there are many well-known Continental botanists , such as Pfeffer , Goebel , de Vrifes , Prantl ( who died a few years ago ) , Errera , Wortmann , Noll ; and not a few Fellows of the Boyal Society , I. B. Balfour , F. O. Bower , F. Darwin , W. Gardiner , D. IT .
Scott , H. M. Ward , and the present writer .
Great as has been the direct influence of his own work upon the progress of botany , the iudirect effect exerted through his pupils has been even greater .
Apart from his botanical knowledge , Sachs was a man of wide * An English translation of this work was published by the Oxford University Press in 1887 . .
\#166 ; f An English translation of this book , with the title ' Outlines of Classification and Special Morphology , ' was published by the Oxford University Press in lo J7 .
XXIX reading , with a special bent in the direction of philosophical studies which he found time to pursue in the intervals of his engrossing professional work .
Though he spoke English imperfectly , he could read it with ease , and thus kept himself abreast of the advance of scientific and philosophic thought in this country .
The writer well remembers that when , in 1877 , he was working at Wurzburg , Sachs ' was engaged with the writings of Herbert Spencer and of Lecky .
Possessed , as he was , of a fund of humour , of a singularly acute intellect , and of a great store of information , Sachs was a brilliant talker .
Altogether he was a remarkable and conspicuous figure , not amon " the botanists only , but among the men of science of his time ; and in losing him the Royal Society has to deplore the loss of not the least distinguished of her Foreign Members , and of a worthy successor to Grew , Malpighi , Hales , and Ivnight .
S. H. Y. Samuel Haughton , who died on the 31st October , 1897 , sprang from an old Quaker family , and although both of his parents had withdrawn from the Community of Friends , he spent his boyhood amidst Quaker surroundings .
The early impressions which he then received remained permanent through life , and he retained deep-rooted within him many of the best of the Quaker principles .
He was born in Carlow on the 21st December , 1821 , and was early sent to a large school which was kept in that town by the Rector of the parish .
It was during his school life that his interest in natural science was awakened .
He had the good fortune to come under the influence of Mr. Emerson , one of the masters of the school , a most gifted scholar , and a man endowed with a profound love of nature .
With him as an associate young Haughton roamed over the surrounding country in search of specimens .
The banks of the beautiful river which flows through his native town , the bog-land in the immediate vicinity , and the slopes of the neighbouring hills , were systematically explored , and botany and geology became his favourite recreations .
At the age of seventeen Haughton entered Trinity College , Dublin .
He possessed in a remarkable degree the qualities which lead to success in college life , quickness of apprehension , a clear head , and a tenacious and ready memory .
Indeed the distinction which he attained as a student was such that immediately aftei taking his degree , an unexpected vacancy having occurred , his friends induced him to enter as a candidate for Fellowship .
With little more than | six months ' preparation , he succeeded at liis first trial ( 1844 ) in that [ most formidable examination , a feat quite unprecedented in the history of the college .
Set free thus early from the prolonged drudgery which is the usual preliminary of a Fellowship contest , Haughton had the rare good fortune to be able , untrammelled by for , .
lxii .
/ XXX the fear of impending examinations , to follow out those lines of study and research which his natural bent of mind made him specially qualified to undertake .
He lived in the same house in college as the eminent mathematician McCullagh , and conceived the warmest regard and admiration for him .
Yery possibly it was due to this association that Haughton 's earlier work was in the domain of physical science ; and at the age of twenty-six he obtained his first extra-collegiate distinction , viz. , the award of the Cunningham Medal by the Royal Irish Academy for his memoir " On the Equilibrium and Motion of Solid and Fluid Bodies .
" Soon , however , he turned his attention to geology , and in 1851 , on the removal of Professor Phillips to Oxford , he was elected University Professor in that subject .
This chair he occupied for thirty years , and only resigned it on his appointment as one of the Senior Fellows of Trinity College in 1881 .
Very early in his career , before ho had entered college , Haughton had shown a strong inclination towards the profession of medicine .
It was his boyish dream to prepare himself as a medical missionary , and to devote his life to missionary work in China .
It was the old Quaker instinct working within him , an instinct which became the great ruling principle of his life , the desire to succour and help the weak in the great battle of life .
It is fortunate for science and the cause of education that his early ambitions were not realised .
Still , although his thoughts were for the time deflected into other channels , and his duties as a Fellow of the College and as Professor of Geology led him into a totally different field of work , his early yearnings were not completely eradicated .
The natural course of events had drawn him away from medicine , but geology brought him back to it .
He perceived that he could not properly treat of animal remains preserved in fossils without a knowledge of comparative anatomy , and the readiest means of obtaining this knowledge appeared to him to lie in the thorough study , in the first instance , of human anatomy .
He was thus led to enter the Medical School , and consequently we find him , at the somewhat advanced age of thirty-eight , and already a Fellow of the Royal Society , already widely known as a mathematician and a geologist , undergoing all the drudgery attending a course of professional study .
Well aware that there is no royal road to knowledge , he threw himself into the full routine of attendance on lectures and hospitals , and pursued his dissections and laboratory work as cheerfully as the youngest student in the school , and as assiduously as if he had to earn his bread by the practice of medicine .
Although greatly burdened by other duties , he passed all the degree examinations at the prescribed periods , and finally graduated in medicine in 1862 .
Thus introduced into the inner life of the School of 1 hysic , XXXi Dr. Haughton could not help seeing that it stood sadly in need of reform .
Although the medical degrees of the University were at that time eagerly sought by young medical aspirants , the school of Trinity College was the last place where they cared to study .
Immediately after his graduation , Dr. Haughton threw his whole energies into the impi'ovement of the school , and to attain this end he was not slow to use the influence which he had deservedly acquired with the senior members of Trinity College .
He was appointed Medical Registrar , and at once proceeded to work .
To render the reform effectual it was necessary to grapple with many ancient abuses\#151 ; a task from which he did not shrink .
He was a man of unbounded courage and great pugnacity\#151 ; to join in a fight was never unwelcome .
But these instincts were kept iu check by great kindliness of heart , and none of his former antagonists who may have survived him has cause to remember with pain any expression he ever used .
The years which followed proved a somewhat stormy period in Dr. Haughton 's life , and he had to adopt in certain instances measures which might appear to be harsh , but which were rendered absolutely necessary by the exigencies of the case .
One of his leading characteristics was his absolute unselfishness , and it may be wrell to mention in connection with these controversies that no one could point to a single act of his which was dictated by self-interest .
But he was stern and almost unforgiving with those who , by idleness or otherwise , did damage to the good name of the college he so sincerely loved .
When Dr. Haughton took in hand the reform of the School of Physic it was one of the most insignificant of the schools which then existed in Dublin ; now it takes the foremost rank , and this change , brought about in little more than thirty years , is largely , if not entirely , due to the sagacious and enlightened manner in which he guided its policy .
It was during the earlier years of his connexion with the medical school that he commenced a series of observations on the mechanical principles of muscular action .
The results of these investigations appeared from time to time in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' and of the ' Royal Irish Academy , ' and ultimately took final shape in his book on ' Animal Mechanics/ which was published in 1873 .
This is probably Dr. Haughton 's greatest work .
For ten years he laboured at it , and during that time it was his daily practice to spend two hours in the dissecting room in the study of the comparative anatomy of the muscular system of vertebrates .
What may be regarded as being the key-note of the work is struck in the following short extract from the preface .
He says :\#151 ; " I have met with numerous instances in the muscular mechanism of vertebrate animals of the application of the principle of least action in Nature ; by which I mean that the work to be done is effected by means of the xxxn existing arrangement of the muscles , bones , and joints with a less expenditure of force than would be possible under any other arrangement ; so that any alteration would be a positive disadvantage to the animal .
" In this\#151 ; as indeed in all his writings\#151 ; he takes up a most uncompromising attitude towards the theory of evolution or , as he expresses it , " the unproved hypothesis " of the descent of living organisms from " a supposed common ancestor .
" He would have none of it .
In 1878 Dr. Haughton retired from the post of Medical Registrar , and became the chairman of the Medical School Committee and University Representative on the General Medical Council .
With regard to his work as a member of the General Medical Council , Sir William Turner writes : " Dr. Haughton , as might naturally be expected , gave especial attention to matters connected with medical education .
His speeches on the preliminary or entrance examination of intending medical students were characterised by shrewdness , both of thought and expression , and were enlivened by wit and humour .
He held that the entrance examinations to the medical profession should be conducted by the national bodies engaged in general education , and he advocated the importance of mathematics as a mental training .
His brightness and warmth of nature made him very popular with his colleagues , who , when his declining health made it necessary for him to resign his seat , expressed , through the President , their regret that he was no longer able to assist them in the discharge of their duties .
" As a Governor of Sir Patrick Dunn 's Hospital Dr. Haughton likewise did noble work .
For thirty-four years he laboured in its behalf , and even during the failing years of his life his interest never slackened , and he rarely missed a Board meeting .
The undaunted courage which he showed during the epidemic of cholera in 1866 is not likely to be forgotten .
At that time there was most inadequate provision for the proper nursing of the cholera patients in Dublin , and as the disease spread , very naturally the entire nursing machinery broke down .
Dr. Haughton called for volunteers from amongst the students and organised from them a nursing staff which did duty during the time that the epidemic lasted .
In this work he drew no distinction between himself and the student members of the staff .
He took his turn at nursing with the rest ; and , by the energetic and enthusiastic way in which he grappled with the difficulty , he did much to alleviate the suffering of the sick and panic-stricken pool in Dublin at a most trying and anxious time .
The experience which Haughton passed through during the outbreak of cholera left on Ins mind an abiding sense of the value of bedside work .
He was thus led to found medals for the encouragement of clinical work in Dunn 's Hospital , and the last act of his life was , out of very scanty xxxm savings , to provide for the making of these rewards more substantial and permanent .
The Government having thrown open to public competition commissions in the Ai*tiilery and Royal Engineers , Haughton was not deterred by his many other duties from organising , in conjunction with his friend Mr. Galbraith , classes for such students as were preparing for these services .
The success of their teaching was so remarkable that the proportion of Irish candidates who obtained commissions was higher at that time than it has ever been since , and this success continued until the conditions of the competition were altered to the detriment of University candidates .
In connexion with these classes he published with Mr. Galbraith a series of manuals which became text-books for the general use of the College .
No account of the part which Dr. Haughton has played as a prominent figure in Irish life would be complete without reference to his long and intimate connexion with the Royal Zoological Society of Ireland .
In 1860 he became a member of its Council , and in 1864 he was elected its Honorary Secretary .
For twenty-one years he filled this office , and he only resigned it to assume the duties of President , which he discharged for five additional years .
During a large part of the time in which he acted as Secretary the Society was in a very struggling condition , and it passed through more than one financial crisis which threatened to swamp it ; indeed it is very probable that had there been a less courageous and able man at the helm the Society would have been submerged altogether .
But Haughton never lost heart , and the Society owes its present secure position in a great measure to the plucky fight which he then fought .
He enjoyed extremely telling how when the bank on one occasion threatened to foreclose the Society 's account , he had met the difficulty by offering to deposit a ferocious Bengal tiger as security for the debt .
He had a passionate fondness for animals .
He was never seen in Dublin without his dog ; and on his death bed , when lying speechless , he endeavoured with the little power which still remained in his left arm to acknowledge the advances of his little Scotch terrier .
Some of the happiest hours of his life were spent in the Zoological Gardens .
A distinctive feature of the social life in Dublin consists in the weekly " Zoo breakfasts .
" On Saturday mornings the members of Council meet in the Gardens and take breakfast together before proceeding to business .
It was at these meetings that Haughton appeared at his very best .
Surrounded by friends of long standing , all of whom had the greatest admiration and affection for him , he was wont to give full scope to his bright and joyous nature .
Among Hanghton 's many talents perhaps the greatest w'as his f 2 XX XIV talent for acquiring friends .
As we have said , he was singularly unselfish , for if his friends had any fault to find in him it was his little care of his own material interests : he was perfectly transparent and sincere , and absolutely loyal .
Thus he kept all the friends he made , and no one was more successful in gaining new ones .
He was one of the most charming of companions , overdo wing with wit and humour , ready to take a lively part in any discussion , and able from a well-stored memory to relate many results of a much varied experience .
And those who were attracted by his social qualities found , as they came to know him better , that he possessed those sterling qualities on which the solid foundations of friendship can be laid .
He used to be a regular attendant at the meetings of the British Association , the chief use of which is the bringing of men of kindred pursuits together .
There he formed valuable friendships with scientific men , of whom it may be enough to name Tyndall , who came from the same part of Ireland , and Huxley , with whom , though they were widely apart on their theological views , he always maintained a cordial and intimate friendship .
His medical friends outside Ireland are too numerous to be mentioned , but he used frequently to speak of Acland of Oxford , Sir William Turner , Sir John Simon , and Sir Richard Quain .
It is needless to say how his loss is felt by those with whom he was in the habit of daily working , and it may in truth be said that no man has left a wider circle of sorrowing friends .
He received many honours during his life .
Only a few of these need be alluded to here .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1858 .
He received the degree of D.C.L. ( Hon. causa ) of Oxford in 1868 ; the degree of LL. D. ( Hon. causa ) of Cambridge in 1880 ; the degree of LL. D. ( Hon. causa ) of Edinburgh in 1884 ; the degree of JVI .
D. ( Hon. causa ) of Bologna in 1888 .
It is impossible to give in the space at our disposal anything like a proper conception of the published work of Dr. Haughton .
Few men had a greater multiplicity of interests , and although it is probable that if he had been more of a specialist he would have left behind him a larger amount of work of permanent value on some one subject , yet his many-sidedness pre-eminently fitted him for the place he filled in the government of a large educational institution .
In the Royal Society Catalogue 173 memoirs and papers are entered under his name , and this only takes his work down to 1883 .
The majority of these were published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy , ' of which he was a member for fifty-two years , and of which he lived to become the President .
Some idea of his amazing versatility may be gained by a glance through the titles of his papers as they are given in the Royal Society 's Catalogues .
The following is a small selection from these : XXXV " Aii Account of Experiments made on a new Friction Sledge for stopping Railway Trains .
" " Physiological Experiments on Nicotine and Strychnia .
" " On the Sea-Louse of the Baltic .
" " On the Reflexion of Polarised Light from Polished Surfaces\#151 ; transparent and metallic .
" " Account of Experiments to Determine the Velocity of Rifle Bullets .
" " On the Muscular Anatomy of the Leg of the Crocodile .
" " On Hanging , considered from a mechanical and physiological Point of View .
" " On Geological Climates .
" " On the normal Constants of healthy Urine in Man .
" " On the Tides and tidal Currents of the Irish Sea , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. " " On Slaty Cleavage and the Distortion of Fossils .
" Dr. Haughton 's contributions to physical science were principally in the subjects of elasticity , the theory of light , solar radiation , and the tides .
Fond of controversy , he plunged into the discussion which raged in the middle of the present century on the nature of transparent media .
He very early came to the conclusion ( 1849 ) that it was only by a study of the facts of reflection and refraction that the question could be decided , and with this end in view he made a great number of laborious observations on the refraction of polarised light from many substances .
The results he obtained remain as a monument to his industry and a permanent contribution to science , although the controversy as to the nature , of transparent media has drifted into new channels , owing to the development of the electromagnetic theory of light .
His work on solar radiations was undertaken in connexion with the geological question as to the age of the earth , the causes of the glacial epoch , and of geological climates .
By the aid of very laborious calculations he considered the effects produced on terrestrial climates by changes in the distribution of land , by alteration in the temperature of the sun , and by the quantity of carbonic acid and aqueous vapour in the air .
His observations on the tides were originally undertaken with the view of rendering the navigation of the Irish Sea and the English Channel safer to outward and homeward bound ships .
He afterwards became a recognised authority on tides , and was not only consulted by Arctic explorers , but was entrusted with valuable records obtained during Arctic voyages for the purpose of report .
Dr. Haughton likewise devoted much of his time to chemical problems , and in the later years of his life some of the higher fo kxxvi mathematical conceptions of chemistry , which he himself called " Newtonian chemistry , " greatly engrossed his attention .
He endeavoured to develop the consequences of a theory of chemical combination depending on the assumptions that in chemical actions energy was conserved as well as a quantity analogous to areas .
Our knowledge of the dynamics of molecules is hardly great enough to criticise such a theory effectively .
Dr. Haughton 's work in the field of geology includes contributions upon subjects of a very diverse nature .
He has written extensively on mineralogy , petrography , physical geography , and physical geology .
Mineralogy first claimed his attention , and in 1853 he began to publish a series of papers on Irish minerals .
One of the last of these dealt exhaustively with the fine meteorite which fell at Dundrum in co .
Tipperary , and which through his instrumentality was presented by Lord Hawarden to the Museum of Trinity College .
His petrographical communications are still more numerous and important .
His work on the Irish granites is singularly complete , and was commenced in 1856 , at a time when the use of the petrographical microscope had not been revived by Sorby .
" When this is taken into account we cannot help being struck by the results obtained by Haughton .
A highly interesting observation is contained in his papers on the Trap Dykes of the district of Morn and on the Carlingford Granite .
He detects a chemical reaction between the mtiuding granite and the limestone , and points out how the granite is thereby altered to what may be called a Syenite .
On the subject of physical geology Haughton contributed many papers to the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' and elsewhere .
The first of the series relates to the effect on the distribution of climate in geological time from the shifting of the earth 's axis , due to continental upheaval .
Haughton arrived at the conclusion\#151 ; which is in agreement with the views of Professor G. Darwin\#151 ; that the effect would be insignificant .
In a paper which appeared in ' Nature , ' Haughton estimated the whole duration of geological time as 200 million years .
This opinion he based on the probable rate of formation of stratified rock .
He assumed these to possess a thickness of 177,200 feet .
He likewise investigated the question of geological climate in connexion with Rossetti 's 'Law of Cooling , ' and arrived at the conclusion that the secular cooling of the sun has been the chief factor in changes of geological climate .
In 1858 he published in the 'Philosophical Transactions his important work on the joint-planes of the Old Red Sandstone of co .
Waterford , and with this also may be associated his observations on the remarkable uniformity in magnetic bearing of the joint-planes xxxvii of these rocks with the joint-planes of Cornwall granite , Donegal granite , the carboniferous limestone of co .
Fermanagh , and the 4 granite and slate of Morn .
Daubree has likewise expended infinite pains on the subject of joint-planes .
Haughton 's book entitled ' Lectures on Physical Geography ' gives some idea of his marvellous grasp of facts , and of his many-sidedness .
His ' Manual of Geology ' is also in many respects a remarkable book .
The chapter on " Symmetry " is specially characteristic of the writer .
Those who read the closing chapter of that book , and who cannot accept the opinions he expresses regarding Darwinism , will at least respect the deep and sincere feeling which caused him to reject the Darwinian philosophy as being opposed to his religious views .
D. J. C. William Francis Drummond Jervois was born at Cowes on the 10th September , 1821 .
In February , 1837 , he joined the Royal Military Academy , Woolwich , and two years later obtained his commission in the Royal Engineers .
After passing through the School of Military Engineering at Chatham , over which Sir Charles Pasley then presided , he sailed foi* the Cape of Good Hope , llexe he was soon actively employed .
When only twenty-one he was appointed Brigade-Major to a force sent to the Orange River to control the movements of the Boers ; and in 1846-7 he took part in an expedition against the Kaffirs .
On the latter occasion he made , undei circumstances of considerable difficulty , a military sketch of British Kaffraria which was of great use in subsequent wars .
Thirty years later it w^as the only map of the district , possessing any pretensions to accuracy , which the general commanding could find for his guidance .
In 1848 Captain Jervois returned to England with a special recommendation from the Governor to Lord Raglan as an active , able officer who could " afford every information on all military and geographical points " connected with the colony .
The Duke of Wellington had always held strong views with regard to the military importance of Alderney , and , in 1852 , it was decided to protect the harbour of refuge , then in course of construction , by strong fortifications .
This duty was entrusted to Captain Jervois , who designed the works and superintended their construction .
Sir W. Jervois maintained to the last that Alderney was still a place of importance in the defence of England , but other views prevailed , and the forts he constructed are now in ruins .
In 1855 Major Jervois was transferred to London and served on Lord Monk 's Committee on Barrack Accommodation .
I he following year he was appointed Assistant Inspector-General of Fortifications , and with characteristic energy at once took up the question of the defence of our dockyards .
He studied the ground at Portsmouth XXXV111 and Plymouth , prepared projects for occupying particular lines of ground by forts , and , with a staff of specially selected officers , designed the works to be constructed .
The movement for the protection of our dockyards and naval arsenals originated in the celebrated letter of the Duke of Wellington and in a Memorandum prepared in 1847 by Lord Palmerston with the assistance of Sir John Burgoyne .
In the latter paper it was pointed out that it was possible for France , under certain conditions , to land a force which , amongst other operations , might destroy our dockyards , and so paralyse our naval resources for years .
Public opinion was at the time opposed to the movement , but , after the Crimean War , a change took place , and some progress was made , as already mentioned , in designing works .
It was not , however , until 1858 , when the Government received private information that the French were secretly making preparations for war , and were obliged to take measures of precaution , that the importance of the question forced itself upon public attention .
In 1859 Lord Palmerston , who was a strong supporter of the view that it was necessary to secure our naval bases against any hostile enterprise , again became Prime Minister .
A Royal Commission on the National Defences was appointed , with Major Jervois as secretary , and , in 1860 , it reported to Parliament .
After much discussion a resolution was carried in the House of Commons to the effect that the recommendations of the Commission should be carried out as rapidly as possible , and that the cost should be met by a loan .
Major Jervois , who had practically guided the work of the Commission , and the preparation of the Report , was now entrusted with the task of fortifying the naval bases and arsenals and the principal harbours and coasting stations of the United Kingdom , the Colonies , and dependencies .
On this duty he Avas employed until 1875 when the accounts of the great loan for fortifications were finally wound up with a saving of more than \#163 ; 200,000 .
The nineteen years spent at the War Office formed the most important period of Sir W. Jervois ' life .
During the whole of if he acted a s secretary to the Committee on the Defence of the Empire , and rendered very valuable services to his country .
The fortifications , chiefly from a mistaken view of their object , have been much criticised .
They Avere projected and carried out in accordance with the strong recommendations of men of the largest experience in actual war , and were intended to render the bases from which the navy worked secure .
The great works themselves will always be a monument to the ability and energy of Sir W. Jervois .
The difficulties that had to be encountered and overcome were very great .
When the Avork was commenced rifled artillery was in its infancy ; armour plating was in the experimental stage ; torpedoes and submarine mines had made no progress ; and XXXIX high explosives for mines and shells were still in the distant future .
There was no delay , however , in adapting the works to the changes rendered necessary by these developments .
The lines of defence were laid out further from the dockyards to meet the increased range of artillery ; arrangements were made by which the armour plating of the forts could be strengthened to meet any further development of artillery ; and a committee was appointed to consider how submarine mines and torpedoes should be utilised to strengthen the defence of ports and harbours .
The works during and alter execution were sharply criticised , and they were defended with energy and success by Colonel Jervois before committees and in papers read at the Royal Institution and the Royal United Service Institution .
Fortifications constructed from twenty-five to thirty years ago must obviously need modification in some points to enable them to meet later developments in the art of attack .
But , on the whole , it may be said that the works for which Sir W. Jervois and his associates are responsible constitute a solid and enduring1 contribution to the defences of the country , and that for many years to come they will fulfil the object for which they were erected .
Amongst the greatest of those works are the fortifications for the protection of Portsmouth , Plymouth , Portland , Pembroke , Cork , the Thames , and the Medway .
In 1863 , 1864 , and 1865 Colonel Jervois went on three separate missions to advise on the defence of Canada ; in 1863 and 1869 he was sent to inspect the works at Halifax and Bermuda , and in 1865 and 1866 to prepare projects for strengthening the fortifications at Malta and Gibraltar .
In 1871-72 he w^as employed by the Government of India to inspect and report on the defences ol Aden , I ei ito , Bombay , and the Hughli , and he also visited British Burma , and reported on the defences of Rangun and Mulmein .
In 1874 Sir W. Jervois , who had been made a C.B. in 1863 , was created K.C.M.G. in recognition of his sei'vices to Canada .
In 1875 he left the War Office and was appointed Governor of the Straits Settlements .
Soon after his arrival at Singapore he found himself confronted by the necessity of making war on the Malay States of Perak and Sungei Ujong , to punish them , for the treacherous murder of Mr. Birch , the British Resident .
By his promptitude in concentrating a strong force at the seat of war , the opeiations weie soon brought to a successful conclusion , and he then elaborated plans for the government of the protected Malay States .
In 1877 lie was sent to Australia to advise the Australasian Governments on matters of defence , and to prepare schemes for the protection of their ports .
Whilst employed on this duty he was appointed Governor of South Australia , and , after completing a term of six years ( 1877-83 ) , was made Governor of Hew Zealand for a like term ( 1883\#151 ; 89 ) .
In xi these two colonies he showed himself to be as good a constitutional governor , working with ministers responsible to a Parliamentary majority , as he had proved himself to be a good autocrat in the Straits Settlements .
From 1877 to 1889 he was adviser to the Governments of all the Australasian colonies on questions connected with the defence of their harbours and coasts , and during this period he placed the defences in a much better position to resist any incursion by the ships of hostile Powers than they were on his arrival .
In 1889 Sir W. Jervois , who had been made a G.C.M.G. in 1878 , l'eturned to England , and in the following year was appointed a member of Mr. Stanhope 's Commission on Military Defences ( 1890-91 ) .
In 1888 he was elected a F.R.S. In 1892 he wrote an article in the ' Nineteenth Century ' magazine advocating that the coast defences should be placed in the hands of the navy\#151 ; which attracted some attention at the time .
But most of the years of his retirement were passed quietly in the country , until an unfortunate carriage accident ended his life oil the 17th August , 1897 .
c. w. w. William Archer was the eldest son of the Rev. Richard Archer , vicar of Clonduff , Rathfriland , co .
Down .
He was born on May 6 , 1827 .
His two younger brothers were educated at Trinity College , Dublin , and were afterwards in the Government service , but no particulars of his own early education are available .
The significant fact of his life was the foundation in 1857 of the Dublin Microscopical Club , of which for a long period Archer was secretary , and to a large extent the moving spirit .
The club was started by a small group of students , who were drawn to natural history studies by the teaching of Allman and Harvey , the two distinguished men who successively occupied the chair of botany at Trinity College , Dublin .
The club , which still exists , was limited to twelve members , and probably no society so small has ever accomplished so much important scientific work .
Each member from the first took up some special line , and Archer devoted himself to the investigation of the Protozoa and microscopic algse of the moor-pools of Ireland .
In this fascinating field of research , the richness of which can perhaps hardly be paralleled in any other country , Archer laboured for the rest of his life .
He devised a simple but effective method of collecting and of preserving for future examination his collected material .
As might be expected a long experience gave him extraordinary dexterity in the work .
Nothing could be more interesting than to accompany him on one of his excursions .
He knew how to find his way through the bogs and instinctively selected the by no means obvious spots where the best harvest was to be found .
A striking instance of his extraordinary skill as a collector was his xli detection in 1863 in a small rock-pool , no larger than a wash-hand basin , on Bray Head , of the beautiful Volvociuacea , Stephanosphwra .
pluvialis , Cohn , then only known from six isolated localities ranging from Scotland to Austria .
He described for the first time an amoeboid state of the constituent cells .
When the writer of this notice went to reside in Ireland in 1870 , the parting advice of a friend was to seek out and make the acquaintance of Archer .
Under his guidance the treasures were revealed of a field of nature as fascinating as it was novel .
Nothing can be imagined more entrancing than the work under Archer 's guidance of examining with the microscope the results of a day 's gatherings .
In the course of the long period which Archer devoted to their study he acquired a knowledge of the minute fresh-water organisms of Ireland which was certainly unequalled amongst British naturalists , and perhaps not surpassed for any other country .
But lie did not content himself with the mere identification and cataloguing of forms .
He was constantly observant of their biological significance , and to follow the work of others in this respect , he made himself acquainted with the pinncipal European , and especially Scandinavian languages .
The chief of his detailed observations were communicated to the Dublin Microscopical Club , and are to be found in its minutes , which from 1864 were published in the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science .
' More extended studies were given in a series of separate papers published in various scientific journals .
Of these the titles of fifty-nine are contained in the Royal Society 's ' Catalogue .
' He was fastidious in recording anything which he had not worked out to his complete satisfaction , and much of the results of his laborious research is doubtless lost .
His most considerable contribution to algology is the revision of the Desmideae in the second edition of Pritchard 's 'Infusoria .
' It is , however , probably to his work amongst the Protozoa that Archer will owe his ultimate place in science .
It was his good fortune to discover in 1868 Ghlamydomyxa labyrinthuloicles , one of the most remarkable and enigmatical of all known microscopic organisms .
In 1867 Cienkowski had described , from the harbour of Odessa , Labyrinthula , the only other with which Chlamydomyxa can be compared .
The two together form Lankester 's class Labyrinthulidea ; but , though both produce a protoplasmic network , Chlamydomyxa , unlike Labyrinthula , possesses a laminated cellulose shell , within which it is most usually found enclosed .
As Lankester points out , it has obvious affinities with the Mycetozoa , but its ultimate place in classification is a problem which still awaits the result of further investigation .
Archer 's admirable research , the result of many years xlii observation , was , owing to his peculiar modesty , not extracted from him without reluctance ; but it immediately procured his election into the Royal Society .
It had been preceded , on its publication in 1875 , by other papers scarcely less important , in which he established the Chlamydophora , a new order of Heliozoa , and described many other new genera , of which Rhaphidiophrys is one of the most remarkable .
He trained himself to be an admirable draughtsman , and the beautiful illustrations to his papers fall somewhat short of the delicacy of the original drawings .
Archer was always a man of small means , and the necessary occupations of his earlier life were never very congenial to him .
In 1872 the Marquis of Ripon , then Lord President of the Council , entirely unsolicited , offered Archer , who was personally unknown to him , the Professorship of Botany in the Royal College of Science for Ireland .
Archer , with characteristic conscientiousness , shrank from the responsibilities of a teaching chair .
Four years later his friends were more successful in getting him appointed Librarian of the Hew Rational Library , sS*post for which his careful and business habits admirably fitted him .
He threw himself into the work of organising the library with characteristic determination , and no doubt impaired the strength of a constitution which was never robust .
Unfortunately his duties largely withdrew him from scientific work .
He retired on a pension in 1895 , and died August 14 of the present year .
He never married .
Apart from the scientific enthusiasm which dominated his character , Archer had a singular charm of manner .
A gentleness and refinement of disposition , almost feminine , made him impossible to quarrel with , and he was one of those fortunate people who go through life without making an enemy .
There was no want of robustness , however , about his scientific insight ; but a quaint sense of humour would always parry a contentious criticism .
A few words may be quoted from the notice by his friend , Mr. Frazer , in the October number of the 'Irish Naturalist ' as to the regard with which he was held as a public servant " He was , as head of a great library , eminently successful in discharging his duties , and securing the esteem of his subordinates and of the public at large ; those especially who profited by his assistance in forwarding their literary researches will gratefully acknowledge their indebtedness to his patient and untiring desires to meet their wishes and advance their interests .
' Archer filled the office of Secretary for Foreign Correspondence to the Royal Irish Academy from 1875 to 1880 , and in 1879 was the recipient of its Cunningham Gold Medal .
W. T. T. D. xliii Louis Pasteur was born at Dole , on the 27th of December , 1822 , but his childhood was passed in Arbois , whither his family removed when he was an infant of two years old .
His parents were in humble circumstances , his father being a hard-working tanner ; that he was , however , a man of character and stern experience is shown by the fact that he had not only fought in the legions of the First Empire , but had been decorated ; on the field of battle by Napoleon , and bore the title of Chevalier de la Legion d'Eonneur .
The home at Arbois appears to have been one of those establishments which revolve round the children , and the greatest sacrifices were made by the parents to secure the best educational advantages for the son .
Pasteur , as a boy , however , showed but little inclination to work at books , preferring to play the truant and spend his time in following his favourite pastime of fishing or sketching portraits of his companions and neighbours .
As he , however , grew older and began to realise the strain upon the resources of his parents which his education entailed , he , with that energy and determination which characterised all his actions throughout life , put away his fishing tackle and locked up his cherished pastels so as to place himself out of the reach of temptation and set to woik .
From that day onwards Pasteur may be said to have hardly ever paused in the pursuit of those Herculean labours which his genius throughout his life supplied in such rapid succession for his indomitable energy to perform .
The college at Arbois having no chair of philosophy , Pasteur went to Besan^'on , where he graduated Bachelier es Lettres , and was appointed " maitre repetiteur , in the College .
Pasteur 's interest in chemical science had already commenced at this time , and his eagerness to acquire knowledge resulted in his overwhelming his teachers with questions , and we are told how one of these , the venerable Professor Darlay , was so embarrassed by his eager inquiries that he was reduced to telling young Pasteur that it was for him to interrogate his pupils , and not for them to catechise him before all his scholars !
Pasteur , however , was not to be discouraged by treatment of this kind , and he went for private assistance in his studies to a pharmacist who enjoyed considerable local reputation through being the author of a paper which had been considered worthy of publication in the ' Annals de Cliimie et de Physique .
His old schoolmaster , at Arbois , had often urged upon Pasteur " pensez a la grande Bcole Normale , " and perhaps this encouragement led him to present himself for the entrance examination at this Institution .
He obtained the fourteenth place , a position which so dissatisfied him that he withdrew , and going up again later on , in October , 1843 , he was rewarded for his energy and perseverance by being placed fourth in order of merit .
VOL. lxii .
9 xliv As a student at the Ecole Normale , Pasteur enjoyed the privilege of attending the lectures both of Balard , at the Boole Normale , and of Dumas , at the Sorbonne .
His energy was boundless , not even on Sundays did he rest from his chemical studies , and on one of these days of rest he actually succeeded in accomplishing the remarkable feat of preparing no less than 60 grams of phosphorus from bones , the operation lasting from four in the morning to nine o'clock at night .
But although Pasteur owed so much to each of those great masters of chemical science , Balard and Dumas , it was a junior man , M. Dela-fosse , who really directed the course which his researches should take .
A former pupil and assistant of the renowned Haiiy , M. Delafosse turned his pupil 's attention to the study of crystals and to problems of molecular physics , in which domain Pasteur 's first laurels were subsequently won .
On completing his curriculum at the Ecole Normale , Pasteur was retained as assistant by Balard , and having now the opportunity of carrying on research he determined to perfect himself in crystallography , and set to work to repeat a very complete investigation made by M. de la Provostaye , on the crystalline form of the tartrates .
It was soon evident , however , that mere repetition and confirmation were not Pasteur 's strong points , for although a comparative novice at the kind of work in question , he was able to see what had escaped the observation of his skilled predecessor in this field .
Thus , both on the crystals of tartaric acid itself , as well as on those of its salts , he at once found small facets which had not hitherto been described .
The presence of such facets on quartz crystals had not escaped the attention of Haiiy , who indeed had further divided such quartz crystals into left and right-handed quartz , according to the side on which these facets were developed .
Biot , again , in his extended investigations on polarisation , had found that some specimens of quartz turn the plane of polarisation to the right and some to the left , whilst Sir John Herschel , in 1820 , suggested that the two phenomena were connected , and that the left-handed quartz crystal rotated the plane of polarisation in one direction , the right-handed in the other .
Experiments showed that this was actually the case .
These remarkable relations appear to have made a profound impression on young Pasteur , and so deeply imbued was he with the idea that polarimetric effect must be associated with crystalline form , that the appearance of these hemihedral faces ( as these facets are technically called ) seemed to him of the very highest importance , and to deserve the most careful study .
To this end he prepared no less than nineteen different tartrates , and found that all exhibited hemihedral faces .
Pursuing his minute examinations of these crystals , he found that whilst the crystals of the inactive tartaric xlv acid which were destitute of these little surfaces were symmetrical , the crystals of the optically active tartaric acid were unsymmetrical , or dissymmetric , as he called it .
Now , to the symmetric character of the crystals of the one tartaric acid , generally known as paratartaric or racemic acid , he attributed the inactivity of this tartaric acid to polarised light ; whilst with the dissymmetric character of the crystals of the other tartaric acid he connected its action on the polarised beam .
In studying these apparently trifling details , Pasteur found that by crystallising the inactive tartaric acid in a particular way , by preparing the sodium ammonium salt and crystallising this , he obtained two different kinds of crystals\#151 ; the one set being identical with those of the active tartaric acid already known , whilst the other set were the mirror images of these and had never been seen by the eye of man before .
The young philosopher at once drew the conclusion that if the dissymmetry of the known tartaric acid caused it to turn the plane of polarisation to the right , the dissymmetry of this new tartaric acid should turn it to the left .
With infinite pains Pasteur picked out from the mixture the individual crystals belonging to each of the two types , and arranged them in two heaps .
Each of these heaps of crystals was then separately dissolved in wrater , and the two solutions submitted to polarised light .
In accordance with his anticipation , whilst the solution of the crystals of the known form was found to turn the plane of polarisation to the right , the solution of the new crystals , the mirror images of the old , was found to tarn the plane through precisely the same angle to the left .
Of such moment did this discovery appear to Pasteur that , rushing from the laboratory in a fever of excitement , and meeting M. Bertrand in the corridor he embraced him , exclaiming , overcome with emotion : " Je viens de fair un grande decouverte and such indeed it was ; but it is related how , whilst producing a great sensation in scientific circles , it was received writh no little scepticism by the Academy of Sciences who instructed Biot to report upon it .
Pasteur has himself described the sceptical and almost suspicious attitude adopted by this great investigator towards the work of this enthusiastic novice in the regions of scientific research , and how , as step by step Biot verified the accuracy of Pasteur 's observations , he became more and more excited until , finally , when he found that the solution of the new crystals , as Pasteur had affirmed , exhibited a strong lsevo-rotation in the polarimeter , he seized him by the hand , exclaiming with visible emotion , " Mon enfant , j'ai tant aim les sciences dans ma vie que cela me fait battre le coeur .
" Pasteur proceeded to point out that the differences in optical properties and in crystalline form exhibited by these two oppositely active tartaric acids were doubtless dependent on the two molecules 9 ^ xlvi having a different arrangement of their constituent atoms , the arrangement in each case being dissymmetric , and clearly indicated that whatever the dissymmetry of the one tartaric acid might consist in , it must be related to the dissymmetry of the other tartaric acid in the same sort of way as the dissymmetry of the left hand is related to the dissymmetry of the right hand .
At the time , how-over , organic chemistry was not sufficiently advanced to make any immediate nse of these speculations , but the philosophical reflections in which he indulges show how , so long ago , he had completely foreshadowed and grasped the scope of that important branch of chemical science now known as Stereochemistry .
But if we are impressed with the sagacity and suggestiveness of Pasteur 's theoretical speculations , we are filled with even still greater admiration on again turning to his experimental work .
The field of investigation which he exposed to view by his discovery of the relationship between the racemic and tartaric acids appears as limitless as the prairie which is bounded only by the horizon , and nothing can testify more eloquently to the experimental genius of Pasteur than the circumstance that already during the comparatively short period of time in which he himself was pursuing its cultivation , he succeeded in determining the exact methods by means of which it can be exploited .
No new methods have been devised , no substantial modifications or improvements have been introduced , although many hands of divers nationalities have since been busily engaged in tilling the estate which he himself was constrained to abandon now nearly thirty years ago .
Pasteur 's academic career was now assured , and the close of the year 1848 finds him Professor of Physics at the Lycee of Dijon , whilst three months after his installation there he was nominated Deputy Professor of Chemistry at the University of Strassburg , becoming full professor in 1852 .
His removal to Strassburg had another significance , quite apart from the greater scope which it afforded him for carrying on his scientific work , for here he met his future wife , the daughter of M. Laurent , Rector of the Strassburg Academy .
Their marriage , which took place in 1860 , ivas a singularly happy one , for Madame Pasteur , as Dr. Roux has said , became not only " un compagne incomparable , " but Pasteur 's " meilleur collaborateur .
" .
During the five years he resided in Alsace , Pasteur devoted himself almost exclusively to the systematic investigation of asymmetric-compounds .
Associated with this period of his life we find those important and now classical researches on the conversion of right-handed tartaric acid into inactive tartaric acid ( racemic acid ) on the one hand , and into a new form of inactive tartaric acid ( mesotartaric acid ) on the other , his discovery of the method of splitting up xlvii racemic acid into its component dextro- and lsevo-tartaric acids by means of optically active bases , and his famous refutation of Dessaignes ' reputed conversion of fumaric and maleic acids into aspaitic acid , identical with that hitherto only obtained from asparagine .
Pasteur had himself studied these various bodies befoie the publication of Dessaignes ' memoir , and he had found that whilst fumaric and maleic acids were not dissymmetric and were destitute of all optical activity , aspartic acid , on the other hand , like asparagine , from which it is derived , was endowed with molecular dissymmetry , and was active towards polarised light .
If Dessaignes ' facts were correct , they would mean that he had accomplished what Pasteur firmly believed to be impossible\#151 ; the preparation by artificial chemical means of an optically active molecule from an inactive one .
Pasteur , with his usual restless energy , determined at once to set this doubt at rest , and hurrying to Vendome he obtained from Dessaignes a specimen of his artificial aspartic acid .
On returning to his laboratory , Pasteur examined it with the minutest care , and found that , in spite of its great resemblance to the acid derived from asparagine , it differed in a very important particular , inasmuch as it was entirely devoid of the action on polarised light which characterised the former , and he had no difficulty in showing that Dessaignes ' acid was not identical with the natural aspartic acid , but only its inactive isometide .
So far Pasteur had kept strictly to the domain of pure chemistry and molecular physics , and his attention was entirely absorbed by problems which , while of profound theoretical interest , gave no indication of the direction which his future labours would take , and to the pursuit of which his whole life was subsequently to be devoted .
\lt ; \#166 ; It was an incident , trifling in itself , which first suggested , o Pasteur the application of fermentation processes to the study of chemical substances .
His attention having been called to a chance observation made by a German firm of manufacturing chemists , that solutions of impure commercial tartrate of lime fermented when left in warm weather in contact with organic matters , he determined at once to utilise this fact and induce , if possible , fermentation in a solution of ordinary right-handed tartaric acid .
Dissolving a salt of this acid , he added to the solution a small quantity of albumen with the result that fermentation ensued and the liquid , originally clear , became gradually turbid , a phenomenon which Pasteur found was due to the presence of small living cells , upon which he subsequently showed the process of fermentation to be dependent .
This method he also applied to solutions of the paratartrate ( racemate ) with the same results .
On examining the solutions , after fermentation , with the polarimeter , the most profound difference was found xlviii to exist between them .
In the case of the paratartrate ( racemate ) , the liquid , originally inactive , exhibited , as the fermentation proceeded , a gradually stronger and stronger deviation of the plane of polarisation to the left until the maximum was reached and the fei mentation ceased .
It was then found that during the process of fermentation the right-handed acid had been consumed , leaving the left-handed acid alone master of the field ; and thus , freed from the constraining influence of its right-handed brother , was able to assert itself and exhibit , for the first time , its left-handed rotatory power .
Thus whilst right-handed and left-handed tartaric acids are chemically identical , and are distinguishable only by their crystalline form and opposite action on polarised light , they are , nevertheless , utterly diffeient from a physiological point of view ; for the right-handed tartaric acid is alone taken up and transformed by the fermentative bacteria which refuse to have anything to do with the left-handed tartaric acid .
Thus the apparently trivial difference in the arrangement of the atoms in space in the case of these two tartaric acids makes an overwhelming difference in their physiological character .
A couple of years later , in 1856 , the Royal Society conferred the Rumford Medal on Pasteur " for his discovery of the nature of racemic acid and its relations to polarised light .
" A new chapter in Pasteur 's life opens with the year 1854 , when , at the age of 32 , he was nominated the first Dean of the Faculty of Sciences which had just been created at Lille .
In this capacity , at once realising that the work of his department should , to some extent , be brought into touch with one of the leading industries of the district\#151 ; the manufacture of alcohol from beetroot and grain\#151 ; he offered courses of lectures on fermentation , and with his characteristic energy threw himself into the serious study of his subject .
It is impossible here to pass even in the briefest review the history of the progress made in the knowledge of fermentation before the subject was attacked by Pasteur ; suffice it to say that at this time fermentation processes were not generally regarded as vital phenomena at all .
The dominant opinion concerning them was that enunciated by Liebig , who viewed the classical transformation of sugar into alcohol as a purely chemical process , depending not on the living yeast cells which the microscope had revealed , but on the dead yeast undergoing post-mortem decomposition : " Beer yeast , and in general all animal and vegetable matters in putrefaction , impart to other bodies the state of decomposition in which they are themselves .
The movement , which by the disturbed equilibrium is impressed on their own elements , is communicated also to the elements of bodies in contact with them .
" Pasteur had been indirectly brought in contact with fermentation phenomena in the course of his researches on asymmetry , for amongst xlix the optically active compounds known at the time was the amyl alcohol , which is obtained as a by-product in a number of fermentations .
In 1857 he brought before the scientific world the result of his researches on the lactic fermentation , the first of that series of masterly investigations which he was to pursue during the next twenty years .
In 1860 this was followed by a paper on the alcoholic fermentation .
In the lactic fermentation , Pasteur noticed that a greyish solid material was deposited , and that the quantity of this increased during the process .
On examining some of this substance under the microscope , he found that it consisted of very minute corpuscles , quite different from the yeast cells observed in the alcoholic fermentation , but which he felt convinced must be of analogous nature .
Taking a trace of this grey material , he introduced it into an artificial solution of sugar , to which he had added some decoction of yeast and .chalk , and soon he had the intense satisfaction of witnessing the lactic fermentation in full activity in this liquid .
From this fermenting liquid he transferred again a minute trace into another similai solution of sugar , and so on , invariably obtaining the same fermentation , invariably finding also the same corpuscles in the deposit .
In order to meet the objection which he conceived might be raised by Liebig and his supporters that the fermentative change in the sugar was due to the decomposition of the albuminoids piesent in the decoction of yeast employed , Pasteur replaced the albuminoids m his fermentations by ammonium salts .
In these solutions of pure sugar , with nothing but mineral additions , he demonstrated that the yeast grew and multiplied , and that its growth was accompanied by the conversion of the sugar into alcohol and carbonic anhydride , whilst similarly those totally distinct living corpuscles , to which be gave the name of levure lactique , proliferated in solutions of the same composition , and their multiplication was accompanied by the transformation of the sugar into lactic acid .
The amount of new experimental material collected by Pasteur in support of this vitalistic as opposed to the time-honoured chemical theory of fermentation is enormous , whilst his extraordinary powei of seeing what others had failed to observe before him is again exemplified in his discovery of succinic acid and glycerine as invariable products of the alcoholic fermentation of sugar .
These researches , besides being of fundamental importance in throwing light upon one of the oldest , but hitherto obscurest , departments of scientific investigation , opened up an entirely new field of work , for with the inauguration by Pasteur of artificial culture solutions , that path was first indicated which has gradually expanded into the fascinating science of Bacteriology .
Whilst busily immersed in his researches on fermentation at Lille , Pasteur received the intelligence , in October , 1857 , that be had been appointed Director of Scientific Studies at the Ecole Normale in Paris .
There being no scientific laboratory attached to the post , Pasteur , unable to obtain any funds from the Government for such a purpose , improvised one out of a garret in the building and equipped it out of his own purse .
Here he pursued with unabated energy the investigations which his removal from Lille had temporarily inter-rnpted , and it was in the course of his further researches on fermentation that he made a discovery which , in respect of its wide and fundamental significance in relation to the economy of nature , is perhaps without an equal amongst his numerous and great achievements .
This important discovery revealed the existence of living forms which grow , multiply , and develop mechanical energy in the absence of that oxygen which it had hitherto been regarded as one of the most far-reaching discoveries to have shown was indispensable for the whole living creation .
This new condition of existence , which he found pertained to the butyric ferment , Pasteur called anae , as opposed to aerobic life , in which oxygen is essential to the continuance or life .
This revolutionary discovery raised a perfect storm of opposition , and Pasteur 's attitude to his opponents is well exemplified by the following words of his own :\#151 ; " Whether the progress of science makes of this vibrio a plant or an animal it matters little , but it is a living thing , endowed with movement , which lives without air , and is a ferment .
" This anaerobic life of the butyric ferment was not allowed to remain an isolated observation without bearing on other facts ; but , on the contrary , its relationship to other known facts was at once discerned by Pasteur , who already in the same year , 1861 , makes another communication to the Academy of Sciences , in which he develops in outline that celebrated theory of fermentation which has served to stimulate so many valuabie researches .
Pasteur in his investigation of fermentative phenomena had thus by the year 1861 shown , firstly , the worthlessness of the form of words by means of which Liebig and the chemists of the time sought to banish all biological considerations from the study of these questions .
Secondly , he had worked out a method of scientifically attacking these problems , in which , for the first time , both the chemical and biological aspects of the subject received their due share of attention .
Thirdly and finally , by the systematic use of this new method of investigating fermentation phenomena , he had discovered the possibility of life without air , and had collected sufficient experimental data to venture on a new theory of fermentation .
The further researches which the new theory of fermentation stimulated were deferred for some years in consequence of his attention being directed to certain phenomena closely related to fermentali tion , and indeed demanding a fall and final explanation before satisfactory progress could be made in this direction .
The researches to which we find Pasteur next devoting himself were directed to the settlement of the much vexed question\#151 ; Can life originate spontaneously ?
It is impossible here to describe the history of this momentous controversy , but so unsatisfactory was the state of scientific opinion on this question in 1860 that the Academy of Sciences gave as a subject for a prize competition : " Essayer , par des experiences bien faites , de jeter un jour nouveau sir la question des generations spontanees .
" It is at this moment that Pasteur enters the lists , and the circumstance that we have for more than twenty years heard nothing of the doctrine of spontaneous generation is due to the effectual manner in which he successively hurled into the dust the several champions who appeared on its behalf in the intellectual tournament which followed .
In looking back upon this period of Pasteur 's career , one is disposed to regret that his great powers should have been so long absorbed in this work of exterminating a mere superstition , but , as a matter of fact , much good came of this crusade in a number of ways .
Incidentally , experiments , which have now become classical , were made on the distribution of micro-organisms in our surroundings such as air and water , whilst healthy urine and the blood of normal animals were , in 1862 and 1863 , shown to be free from microbes and capable of being preserved without alteration for an indefinite period of time , provided they were collected with suitable precautions .
Van der Broeck had , indeed , already , in 1857 and 1858 , proved that grape-juice , white and yolk of egg , gall , urine , and arterial blood , if suitably collected , could be preserved without change in their natural condition , whilst subsequently sterile milk in its natural condition was obtained direct from the udder by Lister , Cheyne , Meissner , and others .
The spontaneous generation controversy was , moreover , highly fertile in developing the general methods of bacteriological5 research , and many of the most familiar operations employed in the study of micro-organisms date from this period .
It is almost needless to say that the prize offered for reseai-ches throwing light on the question of spontaneous generation was awarded " to Pasteur , and in 1862 , at the age of forty , he was elected a member of the Academy of Sciences .
Pasteur now returned to his fermentation studies , and about this time we find him delivering an address to the vinegar manufacturers of Orleans , an address which has since become famous by reason of the important revelations which it contained concerning the production of vinegar by new methods .
He had shown that the conversion of wine into vinegar is the work of a minute rod-like organism , which he called Mycoclerma , and he was now able to point out to these manufacturers that instead of waiting the customary two or three months for the completion of the process , the vinegar could be elaborated in from eight to ten days by simply exposing the vats containing the mixture of wine and vinegar to a temperature of from 20 to 25 ' 0 .
, and sowing on the surface a small quantity of this organism .
As in the case of the alcoholic fermentation , so in that of the vinegar or acetic fermentation , Pasteur was neither the first to discover the process , nor the first to see the living ferment , nor yet even the first to connect the process with the life of the micro-organism .
The chemical change involved and the part played by oxygen in the souring of wine were already indicated by Lavoisier ; the process was ascribed to catalysis , or contact action by Berzelius in 1829 .
The familiar skin which forms on the surface of the acetifying liquid was already named mycoderma by Persoon in 1822 , and the bacterial cells of which this pellicle is composed were seen and actually described under the name of by Kiitzing in 1887 , who even suspected a connexion between the life of the organisms and the vinegar process .
But it is here that Pasteur stands out in such bold relief from so many other distinguished savants of the century , for by building up his discoveries on a solid rock of scientific experiment they have withstood those " whips and scorns of time " which have often succeeded in demolishing the less successfully raised structures of his predecessors .
In perusing the terse summaries in which Pasteur records his labours on the acetic fermentation in the ' Comptes Rendus , ' the breadth and scope of the view which he takes of the phenomena before him at once impress the reader , whilst the alertness of his mind to developments , which even now are only partially realised , is not less remarkable .
In placing the vinegar process on a sound scientific basis , Pasteur had obviously already broached the subject of the " maladies des vins , " for that the souring of wine is one of the most wide-spread ills to which it is subject , is surely well known to all possessing even the most modest of cellars .
What more natural , therefore , than that Pasteur should conceive that those other and more mysterious deteriorations which wines so frequently undergo , might receive a rational explanation by the application of the same methods which had elucidated the vinegar process ?
Nor were these methods found wanting in dealing with the diseases of wine , for whilst in healthy or normal wines Pasteur found only yeast cells , in all those wines which connoisseurs condemned as diseased he found other microorganisms as well , and the nature of these micro-organisms was found to vary according to the complaint with which the wine was charged .
Although a number of different bacteria connected with liii these several maladies of wine were described and figured by Pasteur , it must not be supposed that the mechanism of these processes was investigated with anything like the completeness of the acetification process .
A large amount of work still remains to be done in connexion with these more obscure difficulties which attend the production of soured wine , but to Pasteur is due the broad explanation of these phenomena as dependent upon the presence of foreign organisms , and the further elucidation of the subject is chiefly a matter of laborious detail .
Pasteur , however , did not rest content with having discovered the cause of the deterioration of wine ; he at once set to work to find out a means for its prevention , and in the first instance he sought to suppress the mischievous vitality of the micro-organisms present in wine by the addition of antiseptics .
These experiments were not , however , satisfactory , and he , therefore , had recourse to heating the wine , and in this manner effecting the destruction of , or ensuring the paralysis of , the micro-organisms which produced the undesirable changes in its quality .
This heating or partial sterilisation of a liquid\#151 ; for the temperature employed was far below boiling , and was only designed to paralyse the activity of the microorganisms present and not necessarily to destroy them\#151 ; was first applied by Pasteur , and is now generally known as pasteurisation .
' It has of late been largely and successfully employed in connexion with wine , beer , milk , cream , and other food materials of a perishable nature .
Pasteur 's fermentation studies were , however , interrupted by an incidental investigation into which he was , so to speak , forced by his superiors , but which proved an admirable preparatory school for those great labours on micro-organisms and disease which have rendered his name a household word throughout the civilised world .
In 1865 the silkworm culture , which forms such an important industry in the south of France , was threatened with ruin in consequence of a most disastrous disease having made its appearance amongst the worms .
A commission of inquiry was appointed , of which Dumas was made chairman , and he at once turned to Pasteur for assistance , requesting him to undertake the scientific investigation of the scourge which had wrought such misery amongst silkworm proprietors , reducing a successful and wealthy industry to the verge of destruction .
Pasteur was very loath to leave his researches on fermentation and urged his entire ignorance of the subject , but Dumas would not listen to any plea as to his incapacity to undertake the work .
" Tant mieux , " he replied to Pasteur , " vous n'aurez d'idees que celles qui vous viendront de vos propres observations .
During five years Pasteur was unceasingly engaged in studying liv the diseases of silk-worms , for he found that it was not only pebrine which decimated the silk-worm litters , but that another and totally distinct disease , fiacherie , was also responsible for an enormous mortality amongst the worms .
For five years then Pasteur was absorbed in unravelling these two diseases , and in discovering the best means for their prevention , and the vast amount of work which he accomplished in this connexion can only be approximately estimated by studying the two splendid volumes entitled ' Malady des Verse a Soie , ' published in 1870 .
The opposition , the criticism , and the relentless scepticism with which the researches on silk-worm diseases and their prevention were received at the time , in a measure foreshadowed the bitterness of the conflict in which he was subsequently to become engaged in defending his investigations on the treatment of rabies .
The mental strain of his work told heavily upon Pasteur , and before he had been able to put the last and finishing touches , as it were , to his investigations , he was struck down with a severe attack of paralysis , from which his recovery was at first despaired of .
Throughout his illness , however , his mind remained perfectly clear , but he never subsequently recovered the full use of his limbs .
The war of 1870 plunged him into deep despair , for Pasteur was perhaps an even more ardent patriot than , and for a time he seemed completely crushed , and unable to take up the thread of his researches .
Prevented from returning to Paris on account of the Commune , he gladly availed himself of the offer of his old pupil , Duclaux , to come and work in his laboratory at Clermont Ferrand .
Here he commenced those classical researches on the diseases of beer , which had for their object such an illumination of the brewing industry as would enable France to produce malt liquors of equal value and excellence to those for which her hereditary enemy across the Rhine had so long been pre-eminent .
These researches were in 1876 collected and printed in a single volume , bearing the title ' Etudes sir la Bier , * which is unquestionably the best known of all Pasteur 's publications in this country , and which has been translated into English .
Throughout this volume Pasteur shows unmistakable signs that his thoughts and ideas were bearing in the direction of the applications which his methods and discoveries might have in the interpretation and treatment of the phenomena of disease .
We find him making the significant suggestion that " l'etiologie des maladies contagieuse 's est peut-etre a la veille d'en recevoir un lumiere mat-tendue .
" Indeed , his researches had already borne fruit in many of the directions indicated by the above words , for Payer and Davaine were encouraged to once more approach the investigation of anthrax , whilst we know that as early as 1865 Lister , then a surgeon in Glasgow , began his work in antiseptic surgery , based entiiely on Pasteui s Iv brilliant researches , which demonstrated the truth of the germ theory of putrefaction .
Pasteur followed with the closest attention and deepest interest the developments of his ideas at the hands of the medical world , but hesitated himself to undertake the responsibility of their application to the study of infective diseases .
" I am neither doctor nor veterinary surgeon , " he declares with modest diffidence .
He was , however , in reality equipped as no man before had ever been , not only with the necessary experience and training accumulated during many years of devotion to original research , but also with the scientific machinery necessary for the successful conduct of such investigations , having brought his technique and methods to a pitch of refinement and perfection which had never been equalled before .
Although fifty-five years of age , it is perhaps not surprising then to find Pasteur ultimately devoting himself with all the enthusiasm of youth to the study of pathological phenomena , the first subject which attracted his attention being the well known infectious cattle disease called anthrax .
We cannot here enter into the details of the history of this investigation , but suffice it to say that the work of Payer and Davaine , of Pollender , of Delafond , of Koch , brilliant as the researches of these investigators had been , had not succeeded in convincing the medical and scientific world that the virus of anthrax was identical with the so-called rodlets seen by Davaine in anthrax infected blood , and that these rodlets , and not " the globules and plasma side by side with them , " constituted the real agents of the disease .
The incontestable proof of the truth of this new doctrine was left for Pasteur to furnish , and we know that he succeeded in removing all doubt on the question of the etiology of anthrax once and for all .
But more than this , in conjunction with his assistants , Joubert and Chamberland , he discovered another pathogenic micro-organism , the bacillus of malignant oedema , an organism giving rise to a deadly septicaemia , which in its anaerobic mode'of life much resembles the butyric ferment which Pasteur had so successfully studied in 1861 .
Having thus turned his attention to pathological researches , Pasteur cast about him in all directions to obtain material , even walking the hospitals and heroically overcoming his instinctive antipathy to the sight of suffering and distress .
But the occupation of discovering pathogenic bacteria could not permanently engroas Pasteur 's attention , and his mind 's eye had long been riveted on that great achievement of Jenner 's which towers in royal isolation above the plains of the medical history oi centuries .
" IL faut immunise !
' contre les maladies infectieuses dont nous cultivons les virus , " was Pasteur 's constant cry to his assistants at this time .
Haunted by this idea , Dr. Roux tells us how , during the lvi busy period which preceded the discovery of the attenuation of viruses , numbers of impossible experiments were gravely discussed amongst them , to be only laughed over the following day .
Yet another living virus must , however , be mentioned , which Pasteur successfully identified in these earliest days of his pathological researches , this was the specific agent of fowl cholera , the bacillus Cholerce gallinarum .
True it is that Perducito , in 1878 , and Toussaint in the following year , had discovered and described the presence of this particular micro-organism in the blood of birds afflicted with this malady , but Pasteur was able to carry these observations a great and important step farther , for he succeeded in separating out this bacillus , and in cultivating it outside the animal 's body , and in artificially inducing the disease in other fowls by the inoculation of such cultures .
Interesting and important as was this achievement , it was destined to become of yet greater significance , for it was in the study of these fowl cholera organisms that Pasteur made that epoch-making discovery of the attenuation of virus and the artificial production of immunity .
On returning to his laboratory from a holiday which had interrupted his researches on fowl cholera , Pasteur , to his dismay , found all his cultivations of the microbes of this disease either dead or nearly so , and that many of the animals which he inoculated with these exhausted cultures appeared to suffer no ill effects whatever , a condition which contrasted painfully , from the experimenter 's point of view , with the unerring fatal termination which had accompanied such inoculations before the vacation .
Having at length succeeded in obtaining a virulent culture , the idea occurred to Pasteur of reinoculating the birds which had survived the previous treatment with the exhausted cultures .
What was his astonishment on seeing that these birds resisted the attack of the virulent organisms which proved rapidly fatal to those which had undergone no previous inoculation with the exhausted cultures .
Convinced that this was no chance circumstance , but that he was here face to face with an entirely new phenomenon , Pasteur repeated the experiment in various ways , and found that he had indeed realised his great ambition of " immunising against an infectious disease , of which they cultivated the virus , " and the microbe , which had hitherto only proved a malignant foe , was constrained to become the beneficent protector of its prey .
Numerous investigations were now made to determine upon what factors this conversion of the virus into a vaccine depended , and before long Pasteur was able to announce that the secret lay in the prolonged action of the air upon the culture at a suitable temperature .
It was in .
the following year , 1881 , on the occasion lvii of the International Medical Congress in London , that Pasteur , discussing his latest discoveries in the domain of immunity , paid a graceful tribute to his great predecessor of nearly a century before in this direction : " J'ai pi'ete a l'expression de vaccination un extension que la science , je l'espere , consacrera comme un hommage au merit et aux immenses services rendus par un des plus grands homines de l'Angleterre , Jenner .
" From this time onwards Pasteur 's attention became concentrated upon the artificial production of attenuated viruses or vaccines , and he set to work to prepare the vaccine of anthrax .
The simple method which had proved so successful in the ease of the fowl cholera virus had , however , to be modified in that of anthrax , for the bacilli of anthrax , unlike those of fowl cholera , possess the property of producing spores , so that instead of exposure to the air diminishing the virulence of the culture , it did but serve to afford the bacilli of anthrax an opportunity of giving rise to spores , in which condition the virus is far more persistent and far more hardy than in the bacillar form .
It was necessary , therefore , to produce the anthrax vaccine by preventing the production of spores and then ageing the cultivations containing only the bacillar forms .
This was accomplished by keeping the cultures at 42\#151 ; 43 ' C. , at which temperature no spores are formed , and according to the length of time to which the cultures are thus exposed more and more attenuated viruses or vaccines of anthrax are obtained .
The gain to France from the application of Pasteur 's method of vaccinating animals against anthrax has been estimated by M. Chamberland at 5,000,000 francs in respect of the lives of sheep which have been saved , and 2,000,000 francs for horned cattle .
During the ten years 1884 to 1894 it is stated that as many as 3,400,000 sheep had been vaccinated with a mortality of 1 per cent. , and 438,000 horned cattle , with a mortality of 3 per thousand .
Pasteur also showed that whilst the bacillus of anthrax can be rendered artificially less viment , it can also become artificially endowed by suitable treatment with an increased virulence .
A discovery which might at first sight appear to be of purely scientific interest , but which has in due time been found to possess an enormous practical importance .
Graduated vaccines were also obtained of the microbe giving rise to the disease known as Bouget de pore , or swine measles .
And now we come to Pasteur 's last and crowning achievement , the prevention of disease in man\#151 ; his discovery of a cure for rabies or hydrophobia .
Here again the limits of space prevent our entering into the details of this truly heroic struggle of the savant with the secrets of nature .
During five years , for Pasteur 's researches on rabies were lviii commenced already in 1880 , and Ms first memoir on the subject was not published until the year 1885 , during five years the great master was engaged with his faithful assistants in elaborating and perfecting a method for the prevention of rabies in human beings .
The results of these years of work may be briefly summarised in the following concise words of Roux:\#151 ; " The spinal marrows of rabid rabbits when exposed to the action of the ah ' , in a dry atmosphere , become desiccated , and lose their activity .
After fourteen days the virus is attenuated to such an extent that it is harmless , even in the largest doses .
A dog receiving this fourteen-days-old marrow , then on the following day thirteen-days ' marrow , then that of twelve days , and so on up to the fresh spinal cord itself does not take rabies , but has become immune to it .
Inoculated in the eye or in the brain with the strongest virus it remains well .
In fifteen days , therefore , it is possible to confer immunity upon an animal from rabies .
Now , human beings bitten by mad dogs do not usually develop rabies until a month , or even longer , after the bite .
This time of incubation can be utilised to render the person bitten refractory .
" Still , however , the most difficult , the most perilous task remained to be accomplished\#151 ; the application of the knowledge and experience thus acquired to the prevention of rabies in man .
It was in July , 1885 , that this momentous step was taken , and in October of the same year , Pasteur communicated that celebrated memoir to the Academy of Sciences in which he described the results of what he modestly designated a " tentative heureuse .
" A profound impression was produced by this successful result , and wounded persons soon streamed in from all parts , and during the following year as many as 2,682 individuals were treated , each of whom on an average , received between fifteen and twenty inoculations .
Nearly 20,000 persons have now undergone Pasteur 's anti-rabic treatment at the Paris Institute , and the mortality has been less than 5 per 1,000 .
This magnificent triumph was not easily secured , and it was amidst the most determined opposition at home and abroad that Pasteur had to fight over two years for the public recognition of this great discovery ; the effect of this strain told terribly upon his health , and Pasteur was obliged to give up his life in the laboratory , although he never ceased , down to the very last days of his life , to take the keenest interest in all the investigations which were being carried out in that great institute which bears his name , and which is the public expression of gratitude for the magnificent services to suffering humanity with which his name will for ever loG 3 , SS0C18-t6(l\#171 ; It was in November , 1888 , that the Institut Pasteur was opened with a brilliant ceremonial , by the President of the Republic , and lix we have only to glance at the of the Institute , to see how amply it has since justified the great hopes with which its inauguration was accompanied .
If Pasteur 's life was darkened by struggles , it was equally illuminated with brilliant victories , which he not only prized on account of the vindication of the truths for which he fought , and for the love of science , but also for the lustre which they shed upon his beloved country .
" Si la science n'a pas de patrie , " has said Pasteur , " l'homme de science doit en avoir time , et c'est a elle qu'il doit reporter l in-fluenee que ses travaux peuvent avoir dans le monde .
" It was in this sense that Pasteur participated with such profound feelings of emotion and gratitude in the magnificent celebration of his jubilee which took place on December 27 , 1892 , in commemoration of his seventieth birthday .
Dr. Roux has told us how this unique ceremonial , in which nations forgot politics and joined together to honour and gratefully acknowledge the monumental labours of one of the greatest men of science of the century , profoundly moved Pasteur .
" Puis Pasteur no vecut plus que par l'amour des siens ; il fallait les soins et tout l'affection dont il etait entoure pour prolonger sa faiblesse .
" It was in the autumn of 1895 that the news of Pasteur 's grave state of health gave cause for universal anxiety , and on the 28th of September he passed away at Villeneuve-l'Etang , near Garches .
A mausoleum erected by the Pasteur family in the Institut Pasteur affords a last resting place to the mortal remains of him who " Defender of the living , now shall keep His slumber in the arsenal of life .
" Pasteur has left behind him nearly two hundred notes and memoirs inserted in the ' Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' in the ' Comptes Rendus , ' in the " Recueil des Savants Strangers , " \amp ; c. , besides several works published separately .
The honours which were showered upon him by numerous foreign public and scientific bodies , besides those bestowed upon him by his own country , are too many for record here ; mention should , however , be made that the Royal Society , which had awarded him the Rum-ford Medal in 1856 , conferred upon him the Copley Medal in 1874 , and in 1869 elected him a Foreign Member of the Society .
P. F. F. VOL. LXIl .
h

