A Peculiar Form oj Low Potential Discharge in the Highest Vacua .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , E.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received June 18 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) Mr. C. E. S. Phillips has described a curious electrical electrodes Ei , E2 , fig. l , f were fixed in a glass bulb as shown .
effect* Iron The bulb was E , E Fig. 1 .
exhausted very highly ; a discharge was passed for a moment , and turned off .
The iron electrodes were then magnetised by exciting the electromagnets Mi , M2 .
On magnetisation , a luminous ring was observed in the equatorial plane of the magnet , which lasted for a few seconds , and then died out .
The effect excited considerable interest at the time , and careful experiments were made by the discoverer to elucidate its causes .
The following may be quoted from the concluding section of the paper as representing his views .
" The preceding experiments show that the principal effect of the magnets is to produce a concentration of negative ions at the strongest portion of the magnetic field , and centrally within the bulb ... ... ... . .
I consider that this concentration of negative ions is due to two main causes .
In the first place it is partly produced by the action of the magnetic field on ions already in motion within the bulb ... ... ... And secondly owing to the reaction resulting from the sudden excitation of the magnets , the comparatively dense cloud of ions situated at the ends of the bulb would , in rapidly turning about the magnetic axis , tend to move towards the pointed end of the electrodes , and so concentrate as observed .
" I find some difficulty in forming a clear idea of the theory here suggested but the effects are apparently attributed to ions left in the volume of the * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1898 , vol. 64 , p. 172 ; ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1901 , vol. 197 , p. 135 .
t This figure is taken from Phillips ' paper .
Lotv Potential Discharge in the Highest Vacua .
bulb , and to the electromotive force set up by the sudden growth of the magnetic held .
The latter point of view was favoured by Prof. S. P. Thompson* and by Lord Kelvin , f but the experiments described below cannot be reconciled with it , or with the idea that ions left in the gas by the preliminary discharge have anything to do with the phenomena .
In other passages Phillips attaches importance to charges of electricity left on the glass walls by the preliminary discharge .
In this , as I hope to be able to show , he is entirely right .
Fig. 2 .
To test the latter question , it was decided to repeat the experiments in a vessel lined internally with wire gauze , thus avoiding the uncertainty always encountered in experimenting with charged insulators .
The vessel employed is shown in fig. 2 .
The gauze lining was separated from the iron poles by a short length of glass , and communicated with the outside by a wire so that it could be brought to any desired potential .
The vessel was highly exhausted by a Gaede pump followed by cooled charcoal .
An induction coil was connected to the end caps A , B. The coil circuit was insulated , and the gauze lining connected to earth .
The coil discharge passed with difficulty , with occasional flashes of green phosphorescence .
It sufficed to pass it for a moment only .
Then , when the electrodes were magnetised , the equatorial ring described by Phillips appeared extending as far as the gauze sheath .
It * ' Electrician , ' 1899 , vol. 43 , p. 412 .
+ * Electrician , ' 1899 , vol. 43 , p. 532 .
70 Hon. B. J. Strutt .
A Peculiar Form of lasted 3 seconds or more and then became visibly intermittent , finally ceasing .
If the gauze sheath was electrically connected with the pair of poles AB , the ring was instantly extinguished , no trace of it remaining .
This experiment makes it certain that the ring is essentially connected with a difference of potential between the inner walls of the vessel and the pair of iron electrodes .
The potential difference must be attributed in this case to a charge left on the electrodes , and on the coil circuit connected with them , since the gauze lining is earthed .
Since a charge on the iron poles was necessary , it was an obvious step to maintain it by means of an electrical machine .
" When the iron poles ( connected together ) were kept negatively electrified in this way , the ring could be maintained indefinitely .
It was extinguished when the magnet was turned off , but reappeared when the magnet was turned on again , and then remained steady .
It is therefore evidently unconnected with induced electromotive forces produced during establishment of the magnetic field .
The preliminary induction coil discharge was not necessary .
The ring could be started at any time without it .
Finally , no ring was obtained when the iron poles were positively electrified .
Measurements of the potential difference between the iron poles and the gauze lining when the ring was formed showed that this only amounted to about 300 or 400 volts , varying somewhat with the exact conditions .
When the magnet current was turned off this potential difference at once leapt up to a very high value , far above the capacity of the measuring instruments available ( 12,000 volts ) .
The experiments just recorded indicate the following proximate explanation of Phillips ' phenomenon .
The preliminary induction coil discharge serves only to leave a static charge of electricity on the glass walls , or , if the induction coil circuit is nowhere earthed , on the electrodes .
Under ordinary conditions the electricity thus left is far from being able to discharge itself through the highly rarefied gas .
But when the magnetic field has been created its escape is very much facilitated .
The luminous ring indicates discharge .
That the discharge lasts some seconds is probably to be explained by the well-known gradual leaking out of the electric charge from insulators .
In the modified form of experiment with earthed gauze walls the charge is on the iron poles and on the secondary circuit of the Buhmkorff coil ( not in action ) .
The capacity is mainly in the condenser formed by the insulating tube on which the secondary is wound , the primary and secondary acting as coatings .
The charge of this condenser leaks out gradually , owing to " electric absorption .
" Lovj Potential Discharge in the Highest Vacua .
The question next to be faced is why the discharge potential is so enormously reduced by excitation of the magnets .
With the conical pole pieces so far used , it is difficult to determine whether the effective component of the magnetic force at the electrode surface is parallel to the lines of electric force , or perpendicular to them .
A piece of brass tubing was slipped over the pole pieces as indicated in fig. 3 , connecting them electrically , but not , of course , magnetically .
The low potential ring Fig. 3 .
ft MODS Fig. 4 .
discharge was equally well obtained in this case , starting from the portion 9f the brass tube midway between the poles .
The lines of electrostatic force are with this arrangement necessarily radial to the brass tube , and the lines of magnetic force in the equatorial plane are at right angles to them , as indicated by the dotted lines .
Let us consider what will be the path of an electron starting from the brass tube , used as cathode .
If the electric force alone were acting , the electron would , of course , go radially outwards towards the anode , which is concentric with the brass tube .
When , however , a transverse magnetic force acts as well , the electron will be deflected from its initial path , and will tend to curl round the brass tube from which it started , at the same time as it moves outwards under the influence of the electric force .
The resultant path will therefore be a spiral* and the electron will perhaps cross the radius of the cathode along which it started several times ( fig. 4 ) before reaching the anode .
In an ordinary vacuum discharge , without magnetic force , electrons starting from the cathode are not able to ionise the gas until they have travelled a certain distance , represented by the Crookes dark space .
Why this should be so , and , in particular , why the region of ionisation the negative glow ) is suddenly entered , is hard to understand .
Accepting it * The form of this spiral could he calculated if we regarded the motion as free and made simple assumptions as to the radial distr ibution of the electric and magnetic forces .
But it is , of course , useless to regard the distribution of electric force as undisturbed by the passage of the current .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
A Peculiar Form however , as a fact , we can in a measure foresee the action of magnetic force with this disposition of electrodes in lowering the discharge potential .
The gas space in the neighbourhood of any element of area on the cathode is continually crossed by electrons from elements of area at some anaular distance away round the tube ; electrons which have already travelled some distance through the gas possibly in circulating more than once right round the cathode .
They , at any rate , are able to ionise the gas , and consequently to lower the potential gradient .
Thus the Crookes dark space , the un-ionised region in which the great expenditure of electromotive force occurs , is almost abolished , and the discharge potential drops accordingly .
Discharges of this kind can be conveniently maintained by a battery of say 300 cells , a telephone in the circuit is quite silent , unless the current exceeds a certain limit .
Additional and Confirmatory Experiments .
The spiral path of the electrons is clearly indicated by theory , and affords as satisfactory an explanation as can be expected of the great diminution of voltage drop at the cathode , having regard to the general level of our comprehension of such phenomena .
No spiral structure can be seen in the luminous effect , nor is it to be expected , since everything is symmetrical about an axis .
The spirals starting from different azimuths round the cathode overlap , the aggregate thus produced having circular symmetry .
We can , however , prove that the paths of the electrons have a tangential component by simply interposing a radial partition KJKl_ which stops tangential motion , though it Fig - does not interfere with direct passage of ions between the electrodes .
The low potential discharge then fails , and we can only force the current through at the enormous electromotive forces ordinarily required in high vacua , Low Potential Discharge in the Highest Vacua .
73 Fig. 5 shows the arrangement .
The brass tube A contains inside it the magnet poles ( not shown ) about 1 cm .
apart , separated by a brass distance piece .
The tube is cemented airtight right through the glass envelope and serves as cathode .
Its interior , however , is independent of the vacuum , so that the distance between the poles can be adjusted without difficulty .
The concentric ring anode B , 4'5 cm .
in diameter , is slit at c to admit the mica slip D. D can be lowered by means of a thread from the winch E , which can be operated from outside.* On lowering the mica slip , the effects are as follows : At first the rise of potential is small , not exceeding a hundred or two volts until the mica is half-way down .
It then begins to increase more rapidly until , when 2 or 3 mm. off the brass tube , it has risen to 1000 volts .
Finally , when nearly touching , the potential suddenly leaps up until capable of spaxking 2 or 3 inches in air ; this stage is conveniently demonstrated by an induction coil , though the steady voltage of an electrical machine or battery is necessary when the lower voltages are to be measured .
These changes in the discharge potential are accompanied by interesting luminous effects .
In the absence of the radial partition , the whole space between the electrodes in filled with luminosity .
As the mica descends , it cuts off the light in the sharpest and clearest manner from the whole circular ring into which it protrudes .
Beyond this limit nearer the centre , the luminosity remains unaffected ( fig. 6 ) .
The experiment proves most definitely that the circular movement of electrons ordinarily prevails as far * The winch is constructed by filing a groove for the thread round the plug of an ordinary stopcock ; this arrangement is copied from one devised by Mr. Aston for Sir J. J. Thomson 's experiments on positive rays .
VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; A. G Low Potential Discharge in the Highest Vacua .
out as the anode ring .
At the same time the character of the discharge is not fundamentally altered , unless circular movement in the immediate neighbourhood of the cathode is prevented .
When this occurs , the mica partition being right down , no more luminosity is to be seen in the gas , and green phosphorescence of the glass envelope , previously absent , suddenly becomes intense .
Summary .
The phenomenon originally described by Mr. C. E. S. Phillips is traced to its origin .
As an outcome of this a peculiar form of electric discharge is studied .
The cathode is a cylinder immersed in a magnetic field parallel to itself .
The anode is a ring concentric with the cathode .
In very high vacua the electrons travel from cathode to anode in a spiral path , whirling round the cathode .
The drop of potential over the cathode region is reduced from , say , 200,000 volts to 300 volts .
Further investigations are in progress , including the detailed study of potential gradient in these discharges at various gas densities .

