1888 .
] On the Electric Organ of Raia circularis .
213 least of the inhibitory fibres of the vagus go , there to come into intimate relation with the cardiac mechanism .
Effect of Stimulation of Ostial Parts of Great Veins in certain Abnormal Conditions .
At certain stages of the process of asphyxia , and in the dying heart , there is often seen a very remarkable alteration in the behaviour of the ostial parts of the great veins towards direct stimulation with interrupted currents .
In such circumstances , an inhibition of the spontaneous rhythmic action of these parts may otten be seen as a result of direct stimulation , whereas in the normal state such a stimulation is productive of immediate and striking acceleration .
VI .
" On the Structure of the Electric Organ of Raia By J. C. Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of Natural History , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper gives an account of the structure of the cup-shaped bodies , which , as mentioned in a previous paper read 26th April , 1888 , make up the electric organs of certain members of the skate family .
The structure of these electric cups has been already studied in three species of skate , viz. : Raia R. radiata , and R. circularis .
The present paper only deals with the electric organ of R. circularis .
It shows that the cups in this species are large , well-defined bodies , each resembling somewhat the cup of the familiar " cup and ball .
" The cup proper , like the disks of R. batis , consists of three distinct layers , ( 1 ) the lining , which is almost identical with the electric plate of R. batis ; ( 2 ) a thick median striated layer ; and ( 3 ) an outer or cortical layer .
The lining or electric plate is inseparably connected with the terminal branches of the numerous nerve-fibres , which , entering by the wide mouth in front , all but fill the entire cavity of the cup , and ramify over its inner surface , the intervening spaces being occupied by gelatinous tissue .
This electric layer , which is richly nucleated , presents nearly as large a surface for the terminations of the electric nerves as the electric plate which covers the disk in R. batis and R. clavata .
The striated layer , as in R. batis , consists of numerous lamellae , which have an extremely contorted appearance , but it differs from the corresponding layer in R. batis , in retaining a few corpuscles .
The cortical layer very decidedly differs in appearance from the alveolar layer in R. batis .
It is of considerable thickness , contains large nuclei , Mr. C. Chree .
[ May 17 , and sometimes has short blunt processes projecting from its outer surface .
These short processes apparently correspond to the long complex projections which in B. batis give rise to an irregular network , and they seem to indicate that the cortical layer of B. circulars essentially agrees with the alveolar layer of B. batis , differing chiefly , in the amount of complexity .
Surrounding the cortex there is a thin layer of gelatinous tissue in which capillaries ramify .
This tissue evidently represents the thick gelatinous cushion which lies behind the disk in B. batis , and fills up the alveoli .
The stem of the cup is usually , if not always , longer than the diameter of the cup .
It consists of a core of altered muscular substance , which is surrounded by a thick layer of nucleated protoplasm continuous with the cortical layer of the cup , and apparently also identical with it .
The cups are arranged in oblique rows to form a long , slightly-flattened spindle , which occupies the posterior two-thirds of the tail , being in a skate measuring 27 inches from tip to tip , slightly over 8 inches in length , and nearly a quarter of an inch in width at the widest central portion , but only about 2 lines in thickness .
The posterior three-fifths of the organ lies immediately beneath the skin , and has in contact with its outer surface the nerve of the lateral line .
The anterior two-fifths is surrounded by fibres of the outer caudal muscles .
It is pointed out that while the organ in B. circularisis larger than in B. r , it is relatively very much smaller than the organ of B. batis .
VII .
" On iEolotropic Elastic Solids .
" By C. Chree , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper treats of elastic solids of various non-isotropic kinds .
Its object is to obtain solutions of the internal equations in ascending integral powers of the variables , and apply them to problems of a practical kind , some of them already solved , but in an entirely different way , by Saint-Venant .
On the multi-constant theory of elasticity the equations connecting the strains and stresses contain 21 constants .
As shown by Saint-Venant these reduce for one-plane symmetry to 13 , for three-plane symmetry to 9 , and for symmetry round an axis perpendicular to a plane of symmetry to 5 .
Part I of this paper* deals with one-plane symmetry .
A solution is obtained of the internal equations of equilibrium complete so far as

