430 Rev. F. J. Jervis-Smitb .
Generation of a [ Sept. 9 , With the help of these results , sketches are given in fig. 9 to represent the change in the wave pattern , as the critical velocity is approached and passed .
On the Generation of a Luminous Glow in an Exhausted Receiver moving near an Electrostatic , and the Action of a Magnetic Field on the Glow so produced ; the Residual Gases being Oxygen , Hydrogen , Neon , and Air.\#151 ; Part 3 .
By Frederick John Jervis-Smith , M.A. ( Oxon ) , F.B.S. ( Received September 9 , \#151 ; Read November 5 , 1908 .
) ( 1 ) A silica bulb , similar to those employed in the experiments described at p. 214 , * Roy .
Soc. Proc./ A , vol. 81 , was rotated four to five revolutions per second ; the degree of exhaustion was similar to that reached in the former experiments , the residual gas being oxygen .
The inductor was charged gradually , until the bulb glowed ; then slowly discharged through a piece of damped thread , until the glow entirely died out ; the graduated electroscope being observed during the slow discharge .
On establishing the magnetic field , the brilliant glow was at once restored .
This phenomenon could be repeated at any time with certainty .
In some experiments the south pole was effective , the north pole not so .
This was probably connected with the fact that the north pole deflected the glow away from the stem of the bulb , which was the axis of rotation , and thus in contact with outside bodies .
( 2 ) A silica bulb , the residual gas being air , when similarly treated , glowed ; but the magnetic effect was less marked than when oxygen was the residual gas .
( 3 ) A bulb of glass was next rotated ; the inductor being charged as in the former experiment ; the glow was very much less than when a silica bulb was used .
The glow was deflected by the magnetic field , but not appreciably increased .
Even when the inductor was charged to 3000 volts the glow was feeble .
( 4 ) In order to discover how far the residual gas in the exhausted bulb affected the phenomena , I determined to contrast the effects produced in silica bulbs when neon or oxygen were the residual gases in the bulbs .
Sir William Ramsay very kindly offered to prepare me a bulb , in which the residual gas was neon .
1908 .
] Luminous Glow in an Exhausted etc. Neon Bulb tested for After-glow .
( 5 ) A silica bulb was exhausted , the residual gas being neon , and placed between disc and point electrodes of an induction coil , and subjected to a discharge similar in all respects to that used in the experiment in which the residual gas was oxygen .
No after-glow was produced , as was the case when either air or oxygen was the residual gas .
( 6 ) The neon bulb , while subjected to the discharge , was filled with a reddish glow , which changed its shape with a change of distance of the pointed electrode .
In the figure ( fig. 1 ) the dotted curves show roughly the shape of a section through a cap of glow , and the numbers refer to the relative positions of the pointed electrode and the pairs of curve-shaped caps of glow .
When the electrode was within 5 mm. of the surface of the bulb , the radius of the cap of glow became small and brilliant exactly opposite the electrode .
But as the point was moved away the radius of curvature of the cap became greater .
The neon bulb was next mounted in the rotation apparatus in an electrostatic field , and when treated in exactly the same manner as the oxygen glow-bulbs it gave but little glow , but what it gave was of a reddish colour ; also the neon glow was but feebly affected by the magnetic field .
Hydrogen Oxygen ( 7 ) A silica glow-bulb , the residual gas being air , was rotated , as in the previous experiments.* The inductor was charged to 800 volts , and placed at such a distance from the bulb that it did not show any glow .
Then on establishing a magnetic field , in which the bulb rotated , it glowed brightly , the glow being either to the right or left hand , according to the polarity of the magnet.f The glow varied with the strength of the magnetic field .
The phenomenon is very remarkable , but at present sufficient evidence has not been obtained to suggest an explanation .
The effect was not altered * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' p. 216 , A , vol. 80 .
t Loc cit. 432 Rev. F. J. Jervis-Smitb .
Generation of a [ Sept. 9 , when a sheet of non-magnetic material was interposed between the bulb and the magnet .
( 8 ) Glass bulb , residual gas hydrogen .
A glass bulb in which the residual gas was hydrogen was rotated in the same manner as the glow-bulbs already described .
Since hydrogen passes through silica at a high temperature , a glass bulb was used , so that the exhaustion might not be affected by the process of sealing-off the tube of the bulb .
The position of maximum glow in the case of glow-bulbs in which hydrogen-and Oxygen are the residual gases is shown at G in figs. 2 and 3 , in which D is the inductor charged negative , and S the south pole of magnet .
( 9 ) The effect of a magnetic field on the generation of electricity , by friction of a silica glow-bulb against a camel-hair brush , or the finger .
A silica glow-bulb B , fig. 4 ( the residual gas being air ) , was rotated 30 times FlCr 4per second , between the poles of a large electro-magnet , of the type used in diamagnetic experiments .
The pole pieces , N , S , were flat , and the field between them practically straight ( 6 cm .
) .
The revolving bulb was in contact with a stiff camel-hair brush C , the length of the flexible hair being about 5 mm. This brush was held by a metal arm midway between the poles of the electromagnet .
The pressure of the brush on the bulb was so adjusted that not the slightest glow was visible ; but the instant the magnetic field was established the bulb glowed brightly , and ceased to glow the instant the magnetic field was removed by opening the magnetising circuit .
The experiment was repeated , at short intervals , by me and my assistant , during one and a-half hours , when the same phenomena exactly repeated themselves .
The intensity of the magnetic field was about 1050 to 3000 c.g.s. units , by the Kelvin long coil ballistic method .
The glow was produced , in a slight degree , by a lower intensity of magnetic field .
The same effects were produced by using a finger as a rubber , instead of the brush .
It was noticed that flashes of light passed through the tubular stems of the glow-bulbs , to a conductor touching their ends ; this appears to indicate that the matter within the bulb is electrically charged , as well as the surface of the bulb .
1908 .
] Luminous Glow in an Exhausted , etc. 433 ( 10 ) The effect of a magnetic field on a glow-bulb after the rubber had been removed .
A silica glow-bulb was rotated , as in section ( 9 ) .
The camel-hair rubber , after being in contact with the bulb , was removed , and no glow was visible ; but on establishing the magnetic field ( about 800 c.g.s. units intensity ) , the bulb instantly glowed brightly , the glow lasting in some cases eight minutes before it died out .
( 1.1 ) When pointed pole pieces were used on either side of the rotating bulb , a bright equatorial band about 5 mm. wide of greenish glow was generated , the rest of the glow in the bulb being reduced in intensity .
( 12 ) None of the effects described in sections ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) could be produced in an unexhausted bulb .
( 13 ) The experiments described in this paper illustrate the profound change which takes place in the behaviour of a moving static induction of electricity when the bulb in which it occurs is in a magnetic field , and show how the action of the magnetic field on the electric motion in the residual gas is modified by the nature of the gas employed .
In the case of hydrogen , the maximum glow is approximately situated , in the bulb , at an angle of 45 ' from the maximum glow when oxygen is the residual gas .
When air , oxygen , or neon are the residual gases , the positions of the glow with respect to the magnet pole are similar .

