1I .
An Account of some Peculiarities in the Structure of the Organ of Hearing in the Balzena Mysticetus of Linnaeus .
By Everard Home , Esq. F. R. S. Read December 12 , 1811 .
IN the year 1 799 , I laid before the Society some observations on the Structure of the Membrana Tympani , in consequence of having found that in the elephant that membrane has a muscular structure .
In the elephant the membrana tympani has a greater breadth than in any other animal I have had an opportunity of examining ; the structure of its different parts is therefore rendered more conspicuous , which enabled me to discover the muscular fibres .
With a view to prosecute this inquiry , I have ever since that time been desirous of an opportunity of examining the membrana tympani in the balena mysticetus , having no doubt of its being of such extent as to show the structure to advantage ; and by the kind attention of Mr. SCORESBY , Jun. of Whitby , I have now succeeded : that gentleman in his last voyage in the Greenland whale fishery , procured for me the cranium of a cub of the balvena mysticetus whose extreme length was from sixteen to seventeen feet , and its circumference from twelve to thirteen feet .
This cranium was put into a cask of salt water , and arrived in London in good condition , the different parts of the organ of hearing being in a sttite fitted for dis:ection .
In my examination of the organ of hearing in this young whale , I find there is a peculiarity in its mechanism not met with in the smaller species of whale , and to.which there is : nothing similar in other animals .
As this very singular mechanism is not noticed by either CAMPER or MONRO , and is only glanced at by HUNTER , to whom it was imperfectly known , I shall give a description of it , and in doing so , mention the other parts of the organ , so far as will be necessary to make myself understood .
The cranium had been deprived of the external skin , consequently the outward aperture of the ear had been removed ; a very small portion , however , of the external meatuscould have been cut off , since the dark coloured cuticular lining , which is a continuation of the outward covering of the head , extended a little way into the tube .
The meatus externus was five inches and : a half long , and , probably an inch had been cut oTf .
Near this part the tube was one quarter of an inch in diameter , in the middle it was .
narrower , and near the membrana tympani one inch and onethird of an inch .
By comparing the measurement of the length of the tube : with that of the skull in this whale , and with the large skull in .
the Hunterian Museum , the meatus externus in the full : grown whale will be found to be about two feet six inches in length. .
The membrana tympani is one inch and one-tenth of an inch in diameter , where it is attached to the bone ; instead of being concave , as in other animals , towards the meatus externus , it is convex , and projects nearly an inch into that tube .
Its external surface is composed of a smooth firm cuticular 84 eovering which readily separates as soon as putrefaction comes on ; under this is a strong compact membrane , and when that is removed there is a regular layer of muscular fibres ; these go over the whole of the embossed part , having their origin at the edge of the bone to which the membrane is attached , and terminating-in the bone on the opposite side .
This arrangement of muscular fibres , differs from that of the elephant , where the central part is tendinous .
The muscular fibres have a membranous lining between them and the cavity of the tympanum .
From ; this description of the membrana tympani , it is evident that there is.no connexion between it and the ossicula auditufs , or small bones of the ear , which Mr. HUNTER supposed to be the case in consequence of having found that it was so in , the porpoise.*He says , " in the piked whale the " membrana tympani : is projecting , and : returns back into the " meatus externus for above an inch in length , is firm in tex ' ture , with thick coats , is:hollow on the inside , and its mouth " communicating with the tympanum , one side being fixed to " the malleus , similar to the tendinous process which goes from .
'( the inside of the membrana tympani in the others .
" The fact is , that there is no connexion whatever between : the membrana tympani and the malleus , as will be explained ; .
but as that circumstance forms the great:peculiarity in the organ of this species of whale , I thought it right to quote what he had stated on this subject , Having 'pointed out that there is , no direct connexion be* tween the membrana tympani , and , the ossicula : auditils , as in , other animals , and also shown that HUNTER , unwilling to believe that there could be so great a deviation from the ordinary construction of this organ , was led into an error , which I can only attribute to his having formed to himself too strong a chain of analogies , I shall proceed in my description of the organ .
Immediately behind the membrana tympani is a large cavity formed principally by the concave surface of a large hard bone peculiar to the whale , in the substance of which there is more earthy matter than in almost any other bone met with in animal bodies .
In its form it is not very unlike the shell called the concha Veneris , to which it has been compared .
The cavity of the tympanum is of an oval shape , one end of which is bounded by the membrana tympani , the other forms the entrance of the Eustachian tube , and there the cavity is surrounded wholly by membrane enclosed in the substance of the skull .
The large concave bone is only slightly connected with the petrous portion of the temporal bone , and is imbedded in a fatty substance of nearly an inch in thickness , with a smooth external surface .
The Eustachian tube is two inches and a half long , it opens externally into the canal leading to the blow-hole ; its internal surface is honey-combed , which gives it a glandular appearance , and there are chords and septa crossing from side to side in different places : where it opens into the cavity , it has a valvular structure .
The cavity , as it corresponds in its principal uses with the tympanum of other animals , although it does ]not , as in them , contain the ossicula auditis , deserves to be called by the same name ; it is equal in size to a pint measure , ,and can only be filled from the Eustachian tube , there being no other opening into it by which it can communicate exter .
nally .
Within the cavity of the tympanum , close to the bony rim to which the membrana tympani is attached , there is a membranous fold fixed at one end to the centre of a slight protuberance on the concave surface of the large hollow bone , aidl stretched across the cavity , its loose upper edge forming a line across the centre of the hollow of the membrana tympani , the other end passing beyond the cavity to be attached to the short handle of the malleus , which is situated immediately behind the membranous lining of the tympanum .
The long handle of the malleus is left loose .
The incus and stapes have the same relative situation to one another as in the human ear , .
differing in nothing but being contained in a cavity distinct : from that of the tympanum .
The appearance of an os orbikculare is wanting .
The other parts of the organ , the vestibulun , semi-circular canals and cochlea , and the meatus internus through which the nerves from the brain pass to be distributed to these parts , do not differ materially from what is met with itl the human ear .
As the parts which .
have been described are delineated in the annexed drawings , I have been less minute-in my descrip , tion than I should have otherwise thought it necessary to be .
From the mechanism which has been described , it is evi .
dent that the impulses made on the membrana tympani are not immediately communicated to the ossicula auditus as in other animals ; they are only communicated to the tympanum and thence to the chord stretched across its cavity .
The membrana tympani by its muscular structure has the means within ; itself of adjustment to different sounds , while .
the animal is under water ; but the degree of pressure to which it is liable , is incompatible with the nicer vibrations required to impress the internal organ so as to convey to it distinct sounds , and it is for this last purpose that the membrane is stretched across the cavity of the tympanum .
This membrane , from being connected with the concave bone , will have its vibrations increased , and the bone being imbedded in a fatty covering , none of the vibratory motion impressed upon it can be carried off from the opposite side , but the .
whole will 'be communicated to the malleus , and so on to the cochlea and semi-circular canals .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES , PLATE I. An external view of the parts in which the organ of hearing is contained .
aa .
The external surface of the large concave bone which forms the cavity of the tympanum .
b. The petrous portion of bone , in which the cochlea and semi-circular canal are contained .
c. A bony process connecting the petrous portion with the skull. .
dd .
The meatus auditorius externus .
e , The surface of the membrana tympani to show its muscular fibres , the external covering having been removed .
f. A portion of the malleus , one of the small bones of the ear .
g. The anterior portion of the cavity of the tympanum 88 which extends beyond the concave bone , laid open to show the termination of the Eustachian tube .
h. The internal surface of the Eustachian tube .
i. The opening of the Eustachian tube into the nostril .
PLATE II .
aa , The internal surface of the concave bone .
bb .
The fatty case in which it is enclosed .
c. A convexity covered by a thin ligamentous periosteum , whose fibres are radiated and connect the membrana tympani , as well as the membranous foldf , to the bone .
d. The hollow formed on the inside of the membrana tympani .
e. The external surface of the membrana tympani .
f. The membrane stretched across from the concave bone to the malleus .
g. Malleus .
h. Incus .
i. Stapes .
k. Cochlea .
1 .
Auditory nerve .
m. The bone connecting the petrous portion to the skull , n. A cartilage which had been cut through in preparing the cranium ; the part with which the other extremity was connected has not been ascertained .

