250 [ Feb. 6 , Impact with a Liquid Surface .
February 6 , 1896 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Impact with a Liquid Surface , studied by means of Instantaneous Photography .
" By A. M. WORTHINGTON , M.A. , F.R.S. , and R. S. Cole , M.A. Received September 25 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) This communication is the first instalment of a review by the aid of instantaneous photography of the ground covered by three previous papers ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 25 , pp. 261 and 498 , 1877 , and ibid. , vol. 34 , p. 217 , 1882 ) , in which the phenomena that accompany various kinds of splashes are described .
The advance made lies in the unquestionable accuracy and fulness of detail of the information now afforded .
The photographs which illustrate the paper are 158 in number , and were taken by means of a suitably timed Leyden-jar spark , whose duration was less than 3/ 1,000,000 of a second .
In the earlier parts of a splash , when the changes of form are most rapid , the interval between the consecutive stages photographed was made less than 2/ 1000 or even less than 1/ 1000 second .
Each photograph was taken from a separate splash .
Interesting information is obtained as to the manner in which the concentric outward-spreading ripples originate in the case of impacts of small velocity ( low falls ) , and as to the mode in which , with higher falls , the crater thrown up closes and forms a bubble .
Specially remarkable is the difference in the disturbance set up by the impact of a solid sphere , according as its surface is smooth , or , on the other hand , rough or wet .
A very smooth sphere becomes sheathed with a thin film of liquid , before it is completely immersed , but makes no immediate visible disturbance of the general flatness of the surface , the level of which rises simultaneously , even at quite distant places ; from this flat surface , however , there subsequently emerges a very considerable column , not to be accounted for by the subsidence of any neighbouring wave , and which must be due to the 1896 .
] A new Method of determinin Freezing Points .
251 flow set up below the surface .
With a solid sphere that is rough or wet , the phenomena are quite different from the earliest moments of contact , and very similar to those produced by a liquid sphere .
Although a few theoretical or conjectural points are touched on , the authors prefer to abstain at present from even general explanations , and to put forward the photographs simply as a record of facts of fluid motion , hoping that the puzzling nature of some of the phenomena may evoke attention and interest among those most competent to explain them .
II .
" A New Method of Determining Freezing Points .
" By Meyer Wildermann , Ph. D. Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.U.S. Received January 13 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The subject of this paper is the best means of determining freezing points in dilute as well as in concentrated solutions .
Two things have to be considered : the proper arrangement of equilibrium in the heterogeneous system , and the proper treatment of the instrument used for measuring temperature .
A. Arrangement of Equilibrium.\#151 ; I begin with the statement that the equilibrium between the solid and liquid solvents in the heterogeneous system ( ice and water ) is a " perfect " one , and this is characterised by the fact that , at the slightest change of the temperature of equilibrium , one of the two parts of *the heterogeneous system disappears ; above freezing temperature , the solid , below it , the liquid .
In carrying out an experiment the heterogeneous system is simultaneously cooled down or warmed by the arrangements of the experiment ( air bath , \amp ; c. ) , and the velocity with which the given liquid is cooled down must also come into consideration .
This isolated process must be expressed by Newton 's equation , dt/ dz = c(tg \#151 ; t ) , in which c is inversely proportional to the quantity of liquid and to the heat capacity , and directly proportional to the surface of the whole volume of the liquid , and is the convergence temperature of the liquid if no ice be present , and can be above or below the freezing temperature .
If the convergence temperature be above the freezing temperature , the liquid is , at the freezing temperature , continuously warmed by the experimental arrangements to a higher than the freezing temperature t0 , and the process of ice melting takes place .
If the convergence temperatu re be below the freezing temperature , the liquid is , at the freezing temperature , continuously cooled to a lower temperature , and the process of ice separation takes place .
The velocity of ice melting has been found to be expressed by the

