442 Prof. M. C. Potter .
On Bacterial On a Bacterial Disease of the Turnip ( By M. C. Potter , M.A. , F.L.S. , Professor of Botany in the University of Durham College of Science , Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
Communicated by Sir M. Foster , Sec. E.S. Eeceived November 15 , \#151 ; Eead December 6 , 1900 .
In the autumn , when the activity of the turnip plant is mainly devoted to the storage of reserve material and the characteristic roots are increasing in size , it is not uncommon in this neighbourhood to find among the plants still growing in the fields some whose roots are quite rotten and with a highly offensive and peculiar smell .
The plants thus affected can be recognised by the drooping , yellowish leaves , the older leaves being the first to show any indications of disease .
They gradually flag and droop to the ground , at the same time becoming yellow and shrivelled in appearance .
The leaves next in age gradually exhibit the same signs of premature decay , and this proceeds until finally the young leaves at the growing point succumb .
The time taken for the collapse of the leaves naturally varies with different individuals , but it is usually about two weeks from the time of the first infection .
The roots of these plants when examined present a very characteristic appearance .
The decaying portion may be of a greyish-white or dark-brown colour , and is quite soft to the touch ; the cell wall has lost its natural firmness and the cells their turgidity , and with the escape of the cell-sap the tissues have been reduced to a soft watery pulp .
In the particular disease now treated , the portion attacked remains of a whitish colour , and I have therefore described it under the name " White Eot , " as my investigations have shown that this form of rottenness is due to a specific organism producing this particular coloui when attacking a root .
The brown and other discolorations found in similarly diseased roots are probably due in part to this organism , together with others , but I have not succeeded in cultivating the " Brown Eot , " and this awaits further investigation .
The disease can be readily communicated to sound roots , it being sufficient merely to make a slight incision and smear a small portion of the rotten mass upon the injured surface for decay to be immediately set up .
In twenty-four hours the previously healthy cells around the inoculated surface show the characteristic changes of form and colour to a depth of about a quarter of an inch , indicating the progression of the decay .
Keeping the plant under obseivation , with out further injury , it is noted that the rind bordering on the wound gradually becomes soft and assumes a lighter colour ; the discoloia tion gradually extends ; the older leaves , too , droop and change colour Disease of the Turnip ( Brassica napus ) .
443 by degrees the entire rosette of leaves perishes , arid the whole root becomes a soft , putrid mass , which eventually collapses , and after a shower of rain almost entirely disappears , exactly the same symptoms appearing as in the case of the plants found decaying in the fields .
The most careful microscopic search has failed to detect any trace of hyphse of the higher fungi in the decaying mass , but only a swarming mass of bacteria .
The tissues are completely disorganised ( see fig. 1 ) , the cells separating from each other along the middle lamella , the cell-walls are soft , swollen , and faintly striated , the protoplasm too has lost its natural colour and become slightty brown and contracted , so that it no longer remains closely in contact with the cell-wall .
With a view to determine whether the bacteria are the cause of the rottenness , and if so , to isolate the particular organism which produces it , a series of cultures was undertaken .
In the first instance , a nutrient broth made from turnips was employed .
Pieces of turnip finely chopped were steamed in a beaker until soft , sufficient tap-water being added to just cover them ; when soft they were pressed through a cloth and the liquid filtered .
To the clear light yellow filtrate thus obtained 5 per cent , of gelatine was added , and the mixture was then steamed , filtered , and drawn into test-tubes , which previously had been plugged with cotton-wool and exposed to a temperature of 140 ' C. for half an hour .
These test-tubes , containing about 10 c.c. each of the bouillon , were next steamed for half an hour on three consecutive days , and as a further test of complete sterilisation they were incubated at 20 ' C. for a few days .
No colonies were found to develop .
( Whenever mention is made of test-tubes containing nutrient gelatine it must be understood that all have been prepared in this manner , and none have been employed which have not been submitted to these tests .
) In some cases the broth was neutralised , in others it was allowed to retain the natural acidity of the cell-sap ; but subsequently Koch 's bouillon , neutralised with sodium hydrate by the phenolphthalein test , was found to give the most satisfactory results , and hence was always used .
In separating the various organisms found in the rotten mass a sterile platinum wire was introduced into the turnip ( the rotten part practically offering no resistance ) , and then immersed in a test-tube ( A ) containing about 10 c.c. of the liquid nutrient gelatine .
From this a loop was taken in a similar manner into a second test-tube ( B ) , and so on until a sufficient degree of attenuation was reached .
The test-tubes after being well shaken were turned out into petri capsules ... respectively .
These were placed in a cool incubator , and the colonies allowed to develop .
In a , and often in , the entire surface became covered with growing colonies too thickly crowded to be of any use for the purpose of isolation ; but in the others the colonies were less numerous and sufficiently distinct to allow the organisms to be sepa- Prof. M. C. Potter .
On a Bacterial rated from each other .
The most conspicuous colonies were those which liquefied the gelatine ; among others producing no liquefaction Micrococcus candicans and a yeast were especially noted for their frequent occurrence ; hut no trace of any of the higher fungi was found .
The colonies were next transplanted by means of a sterile platinum wire into test-tubes containing about 10 c.c. of nutrient gelatine ; and after numerous trials 1 was satisfied that pure cultures were obtained .
The various organisms as isolated were sown by means of a freshly-heated platinum wire upon sterile but living blocks of turnip .
To prepare these blocks the turnips were first washed , and then soaked in a 1 per cent , solution of corrosive sublimate to destroy any organisms adhering to the outer surface , the corrosive sublimate being afterwards thoroughly washed away by means of water sterilised by discontinuous boiling .
The rind Avas then removed by a sterile knife , the turnips being cut into suitable blocks on a sterile plate and quickly inserted in the test-tubes .
Treated in this way the blocks of turnip , while quite sterile , were composed of healthy living cells , as was shown by three sets of control tubes .
In the first set the blocks , prepared as above , were immersed in cooled liquid nutrient gelatine , in the second similar blocks were immersed in sterile Avater ; in neither case were any colonies found to deA'elop either Avhen the blocks were partially or A\holly submerged , and after eight days no sign of decay had appeared .
In the third set the blocks Avere simply inserted in the tubes , and kept in a damp atmosphere ; on microscopical examination cell division was observed to haA^e taken place in the outer layers of uninjured cells , and the cell tissues presented a normal and entirely healthy appearance .
In the tubes containing the inoculated blocks many shoAved signs of advanced decay in about tAvelve hours , and all those in Avhich any rottenness appeared Avere carefully noted .
After repeated experiment and a long series of cultures , I succeeded in isolating a bacterium which liquefies gelatine , and Avhich , when sown on the sterile blocks of living turnip , produced the characteristic " White Rot " previously described .
The isolation of the bacterium in this manner was further confirmed by pricking out the colonies by means of Unna 's harpoon .
Small colonies of about 15 / x groAving in a petri capsule were selected and transplanted by the harpoon into petri capsules containing some sterile turnip bouillon .
A specially fine harpoon needle Avas obtained , but the point was still larger than these very small colonies , and it Avas only after some practice that they could be successfully transplanted .
The colonies selected Avere those growing quite apart , which appeared to have arisen from a single bacterium , to eliminate as far as possible any chance of the needle touching more than one .
Lest , hoAveArer , ca en these small colonies might have grown from more than one bacterium , Disease of the Turnip(Brassica napus ) .
445 a single bacterium was selected and its development watched with the capsule fixed under the microscope until the colony was sufficiently large to transplant .
Cultivations were also made by the method of the hanging drop .
A drop of gelatine bouillon from a test-tube containing a very few bacteria was placed upon a sterile coverslip , and then inverted over a sterile growing cell and examined under the microscope .
If the bacteria were too numerous , the preparation was discarded and trials made until a hanging drop was secured with only one or two bacteria .
The growing cell was now fixed under the microscope , so that a selected bacterium could be observed and the growth of the colony noted .
When sufficiently large the coverslip was quickly inverted and the colony removed by the fine Unna 's harpoon to a petri capsule .
In this way pure cultures were obtained , grown from a single bacterium , which always gave rise to the characteristic " White Rot , " and left no doubt that this bacterium is the sole organism concerned in the disease .
Pure cultures were also sown upon plants growing in the College garden with exactly the same result .
The decay commenced at the point of infection and soon spread through the sound roots , eventually producing the same white putrefying mass of rottenness .
The bacterium can live for many generations as a saprophyte without losing its virulence as a parasite .
A stock obtained from a " white-rotted " turnip growing in a field near Newcastle on September 10th , 1898 , was isolated during that month , and after passing through several cultivations in successive test tubes was finally put aside on April 29th , 1899 .
On August 23rd two sound turnips were selected in the College garden , and while still growing , the part of the roots above ground was washed with corrosive sublimate and afterwards with sterile water ; a wound was then made with a sterile knife , and a little of the culture from one of the test-tubes left undisturbed since April 29th was introduced by a platinum wire .
The turnips were then covered over with a zinc cylinder , and , upon examination five days after , on August 28th , the rot was found to have penetrated deeply into the tissues , the larger half of the roots having become completely rotten with all the distinctive characteristics of the true " White Rot .
" In order to ascertain the precise action of the bacterium , and to determine whether it produced any ferment capable of acting upon the cell-wall in a manner similar to those of various parasitic fungi , the method of precipitation by alcohol was adopted .
A litre flask was plugged , sterilised , and then filled about half-full with sterile blocks of turnips , to which was added a small block upon which a pure culture of bacterium had been sown ; a little sterile water was then introduced , the flask closed as quickly as possible , and then well shaken to distribute the bacteria .
In twenty-four hours many of the blocks showed the characteristic action of the bacterium , and in the Prof. M. C. Potter .
On a Bacterial course of three or four days nearly the whole contents had become rotten .
The next important step was to separate the bacteria from their products .
The contents of the flask were turned out and pressed through a cloth into a glass cylinder to remove the coarser portions , the turbid liquid was then filtered , and afterwards diluted with four to five times its bulk of alcohol .
Almost immediately on addition of the alcohol a cloudy precipitate formed , and , at the end of twenty-four hours , a copious flocculent precipitate was deposited .
After filtration the precipitate was washed with absolute alcohol , dried , carefully collected , and then digested with distilled water for about three hours .
The solution was then passed through a Pasteur-Chamberland filter fixed in a Maassen 's bacteria filter .
In this manner a clear , pale , straw-coloured liquid was obtained free from bacteria .
The liquid when drawn into sterile test-tubes remained clear for any length of time , but when exposed to the air it soon became turbid .
A series of ten such sterile test-tubes was prepared , five of which were held over a Bunsen burner , and the fluid allowed to boil ; the other five were left without any exposure to heat .
Thin sections cut from sterile blocks of turnip , by means of a razor steeped in boiling water , were taken off in sterile water and quickly introduced both into the boiled and unboiled fluids .
The action of the unboiled fluid was very marked , big .
1 shows a Fig. i \#151 ; Group of cells from a section of turnip which has been exposed to the action of the cytase for twenty-four hours .
The cell-walls are swollen and irregular in outline , and the cells are separating along the middle lamella ( Zeiss , E. oc .
2 ) .
section taken from one of these preparations after twenty four hoiu s exposure : the cell-wall is swollen and striated , and so much softened that great difficulty was found in handling the section and removing it to the slide ; it is well seen that the walls have quite lost their Disease of the Turnip ( Brassica napus ) .
natural firmness and clear regularity of outline , being bulgy and distended in places ; the dissolution of the cells is very apparent along the middle lamella , and the whole appearance of the section corresponds exactly with those taken from turnips found affected by the rot in the fields .
The sections contained in the boiled fluid exhibited none of the appearances described above , and the cell-walls remained perfectly normal .
It is thus evident that the bacterium secretes an enzyme which dissolves the middle lamella and causes the softening and swelling of the cell-wall .
Fig. 2 represents a single cell from a Yig .
2.__Cell immersed for sixteen hours in an unboiled solution of the cytase .
Thickness of cell-wall , 2 ju at x x ( Zeiss , E. oc .
2 ) .
section immersed in the filtered , unboiled liquid for sixteen hours .
Fig. 3 shows one after an immersion of forty hours .
The thickness of j-jg .
3._Section immersed for forty -two Lours in unboiled solution of the cjtase .
Thickness of wall , o'3ju at x x ( Zeiss , E. oc .
2 ) .
the walls was 2 / x and 5-3 / x respectively .
( I should remark here that these sections were cut out of season from old turnips in which the walls would be more resistant , and this would account for the relaProf .
M. C. Potter .
On Bacterial tively slow development .
In sections from more succulent growing roots the walls have been found to swell from 2 g to 7 g in the course of twenty-four hours .
) In fig. 4 the cell is drawn from a section imfig .
4 , __Secli \gt ; n immersed in solution of cytase for forty-two hours , whose power had been destroyed by boiling .
Cell-walls quite normal ( Zeiss , E. oc 2 ) .
mersed for forty hours in the boiled liquid .
The cell-wall is not perceptibly thickened or affected in any way .
The activity of the enzyme in the decaying plant was also shown by passing the juice from the bruised pulp directly through a Pasteur-Chamberland filter , when its action on the cell-wall was precisely that described in the case of the watery extract of the alcoholic precipitate .
The bacterium also secretes the enzyme when growing in a beef solution .
Small flasks containing 100 c.c. of beef bouillon , inoculated with a pure culture , became turbid in the course of twenty-four to thirty-six hours .
After an interval of eight days , the liquid was filtered and diluted with five times its bulk of alcohol , when a precipitate immediately began to appear .
After standing twelve hours the precipitate was collected by filtration , dried , and then digested with 10 c.c. of distilled water .
After filtration through a Pasteur-Chamberland filter , experiments were repeated as above with sections of sterile turnip , and the same results were obtained ; the liquid was found to possess the property of dissolving the middle lamella , and causing the softening and swelling of the cell-wall .
All .action of the ferment was destroyed by boiling .
To avoid the tedious process of the filtration through a Pasteur-Chamberland filter , and the necessary sterilisation of the apparatus , various attempts were made to render the solutions aseptic by the use of such re-agents as chloroform , thymol , formalin , \amp ; c. But this process had to be abandoned , as in all these cases living bacteria were found .after twenty-four hours , and no reliance could be placed upon it .
In the early stages of the investigations , filtration\#151 ; except when Disease of the Turnip ( Brassica napus ) .
the elimination of bacteria was desired\#151 ; was effected through ordinary filter paper .
The quantity of the precipitate being small , the portion of the paper upon which it was deposited was cut out and digested with water .
But in order to avoid any possible action of the enzyme upon the paper , kieselguhr was subsequently invariably employed , a few pieces of glass at the base of the funnel covered with a little asbestos serving to prevent the kieselguhr from passing through , the necessary pressure to ensure filtration being derived from an anPUThe filtered extract from the rotten turnip also contains a diastasic ferment Two test-tubes , each containing 5 e.c. of the dissolved ferment , were diluted with 5 c.c. of a 1 per cent , starch emulsion , one of the test-tubes having previously been boiled .
After twenty-four hours the test-tube ivith the unboiled ferment showed no starch reaction on the addition of iodine ; but the boiled tube at once gave the character^Simikr diastasic enzymes are excreted by several other bacteria ( Ift"-H be convenient here to say that , adopting Migula 's classification , I have ventured to name the bacterium I am describing Pseudomonas destrudans , though the description will be given later .
It has been established that P. , both when living in a nutrient solution and on a living turnip , excretes an enzyme which has the power of dissolving the middle lamella and of causing the softening and swelling of the cell-wall . .
, As a further result of the bacterial action , as already described , e protoplasm of the cells is found to have contracted become brown , and separated from the cell-wall , showing evidence of the action of a toxin secreted by the bacterium .
The same effect was produced in Irvin0- turnip ceils when treated with the boiled pressed puce of a turnip , which had become rotten through the influence of a pure culture of P. destrudans .
The pressed juice was filtered and about 10 c c drawn into test-tubes , which were then plugged and sterilised by discontinuous boiling .
Sections cut by a razor , sterilised by boiling from blocks of sterile , living turnip ( p. 444 ) were quickly transferred to the boiled juice after it had cooled ; at the same time similar sections were immersed in test-tubes containing the same quantity of sterile water .
After twelve hours a very marked contrast was observable between these sections .
In those immerse m the s eve water the cells presented the normal appearance , with the protop asm pressed close to the cell-wall , while in those in the boiled pressed juice the protoplasm was dead , had assumed a brown tint , and contracted away from the cell-wall .
A toxin , therefoie , " uc is not destroyed by boiling is secreted by destrudans .
In his paper " Ueber einige Sclerotinien und Sclerotien-krank-1 1 2 k VOL. I , XVII .
Prof. M. C. Potter .
On a Bacterial heiten , " de Bary has shown that oxalic acid is secreted by the hyphae of Peziza sclerotiorumwhen living as a parasite , and that this acid acts as a toxin in killing and plasmolysing the protoplasm .
Wehmer has found that Aspergillus niger and Penicillium glaucum also form oxalic acid when growing in a sugar-containing solution .
Oxalic acid , being an unavoidable product in the metabolism of the higher plants , and also in some fungi , it seemed reasonable to suppose that it might be found as a similar product in the life of bacteria .
With this idea I tested the juice expressed from a rotten turnip , and found , on addition of calcium chloride , a precipitate which proved to be calcium oxalate .
Cultures were then undertaken to test for the presence of oxalic acid as a product from P. A broth , made by steaming small pieces of actively growing turnips until soft , was neutralised by an excess of calcium carbonate and filtered ; it was then allowed to stand overnight , when a further deposition of calcium took place ; it was then again filtered , clarified with the white of an egg , steamed , filtered , and drawn into four flasks , each containing 150 c.c. , which were sterilised .
A solution was thus obtained free from any oxalic acid which might have been present in the tissues of the turnip .
Two of the flasks were inoculated with P. destructans on August 28th .
In twenty-four hours they became turbid , and after four days were tested and found to contain oxalic acid ; while the control flasks showed no evidence of this acid , and remained perfectly clear .
P. destructans also sets up an oxalic fermentation in Pasteur 's solution .
A litre of Pasteur 's solution with cane sugar was made up and divided into four flasks , each of which was carefully sterilised and one sown with P. destructans .
After twenty-four hours the liquid in the inoculated flask , which was previously perfectly clear , became cloudy , and after a week quite opaque ; 10 c.c. of this , when treated with a solution of calcium chloride , in the presence of acetic acid , at once showed a precipitate of calcium oxalate , which increased on being warmed .
Another 10 c.c. of the original solution , which had been kept sterile during the same period , remained quite clear on treatment with the same re-agents .
P. destructans thus sets up an oxalic fermentation in a sugar containing liquid .
It has also been found that carbon di-oxide is given off during the process .
* When treated with alcohol , the Pasteur solution , in which P. destructans had been growing for eight days , yielded a white flocculent precipitate which contained the cytase .
The oxalic acid , however , remained in solution , and was deposited as the calcium salt on addition of calcium chloride .
This calcium precipitate , when mixed with manganese di-oxide and treated with sulphuric acid , yielded carbonic acid , which furnishes a further confirmatory test of the presence of oxalic acid .
The precipitation by alcohol affords a ready method of separating the toxin ( oxalic acid ) from the cytase , and this explains Disease of the Turnip(Brassica napus ) .
why the sections treated with the watery extract of the alcoholic precipitate exhibited no marked plasmolysis .
That the oxalic acid formed by P. destructans in Pasteur 's solution acts as a powerful toxin was very clearly shown .
Six plugged and sterile test-tubes were prepared , and about 10 c.c. of the fermenting Pasteur solution was poured into each .
To three of these ( seiies 1 ) sufficient calcium carbonate was added to neutralise the oxalic acid .
Both series of tubes were then sterilised by discontinuous boiling , during which process the cytase would be destroyed , and into both when cool freshly cut and sterile sections of turnip were placed prepared as described on page 446 , and the solutions allowed to act till next morning .
The sections in the second series of test-tubes showed a marked contraction of the protoplasm , and it looked brown and dead , and showed no tendency to return to its normal condition when immersed in pure water .
In the first , which were treated with calcium carbonate , the protoplasm was quite normal , and exactly resembled a section which had been immersed in sterile water for the same period .
A third set of test-tubes were filled with about 10 c.c. of the solution .
these were not boiled , and received no calcium carbonate ; the sections introduced showed complete dissociation of the cells , the cell-walls greatly swollen and the protoplasm very strongly contracted .
This experiment with the Pasteur solution demonstrated the production of the same cytase , and strikingly illustrated its effect upon the plant cell , as well as the toxic action of the oxalic acid ; even more so than was the case with the same experiment with turnip juice .
In considering the effect of the oxalic acid upon the cells , it is important to note that calcium pectate , a salt which is decomposed by oxalic acid with the production of calcium oxalate , enters largely into the composition of the middle lamella .
Wehmer has shown that in the cultivation of Aspergillus nigerand glaucum oxalic acid is formed in saccharine solutions , that the oxalic acid produced acts as a toxin to these fungi , and gradually diminishes their vigour , and that when a certain strength has accumulated no further development is possible ; growth , however , is resumed when the oxalic acid is neutralised by a calcium salt .
The reaction between the oxalic acid produced by P. destructans and the calcium pectate of the middle lamella is preciselly analogous : the oxalic acid would be neutralised , and the pectate replaced by the oxalate , and the continued growth of the bacteria would thus be rendered possible .
The oxalic acid* then both acts as a toxin in killing the cells and may also play some part in * Since the above account of the formation of oxalic acid by was written , Zopf has published a note also describing the formation of oxalic acid by B. xylinum , " Oxalsaurebildung durch Bacterien , " ' Berichte d. 1 ) .
Bot. Gresell .
, ' Feb. 1900 .
452 Prof. M. C. Potter .
On Bacterial the destruction of the middle lamella and the separation of the cells .
Fig. 5 shoves a cell swarming with the bacteria are seen occupying the inter-cellular spaces and lying in the track of the middle lamella .
][fier .
5.\#151 ; A cell from turnip inoculated with a pure culture of The bacteria are seen in the cell cavity and also along the track of the middle lamella , and in the intercellular spaces .
The cell-wall is much swollen ; at a it is just beginning to separate along the middle lamella and at b the dissociation is more strongly marked .
The nucleus and portions of the protoplasm still remain .
( Drawn with Abbe camera lucid ?
, , Zeiss , E. oc .
4 .
) In the case of several parasite fungi , the hyphse also burrow in the thickness of the cell-wall , and the same phenomenon is now shown to be true of one parasitic schizomycete , and possibly this is owing to the necessity for the neutralisation of the oxalic acid as a condition of GXlStGllCC .
Enzymes similar in nature to that described for P. have been demonstrated by Marshall Ward for and by de .
Bary foi Sclerotinia .
_ . . . .
The action of this bacterium upon living plant tissues is precisely similar to that of certain of the parasitic fungi ; in both cases the invading Disease of the Turnip ( Brassica napus ) .
organism produces oxalic acid , which acts as a toxin to the protoplasm and , decomposing the calcium pectate , furthers the dissolution of the cells ; and also there is the secretion of a cytase , which has a destructive action upon the cell-wall and intercellular substance .
The question of the parasitism of the bacteria thus stands in these respects on the same platform as that of the fungi , and a complete homology is established between them .
At first I experienced considerable difficulty in staining the flagella .
Loeffler 's method was first tried , but with no positive results ; it enabled one , however , to notice two deeply stained portions at either end of the rod .
Van Ermengen 's method also failed in spite of the strictest attention to technique , but by gradually increasing the strength of the silver nitrate , and finally using a 2 per cent , solution , the desired result was obtained , and the bacillus was then found to possess one polar flagellum ( fig. 6 ) .
It should be mentioned that the practice of passing the cover-slip thorough a flame was discarded m favour of drying the cover-slip at 60J C. in a water bath , the latter method being more certain and giving better results .
Pig .
6.\#151 ; Pseudomonas destructanswith single polar flagellum .
( Swift 's 1 / 12th Pseudomonas is aerobic .
A stab culture rapidly develops along the track of the wire , forming a funnel ; the edge of the funnel reaches the sides of the test-tube in about forty-eight hours , and gradually sinks as the gelatine becomes liquid .
The gelatine , however , is never wholly liquefied , the liquefaction extending down the sides of the tube only to a depth of about one and a half centimetres .
If a layer of gelatine is immediately poured above the stab and the test-tube placed in the incubator , the track of the wire is clearly marked out as before , but the colonies soon cease to develop , and all growth ceases after three days .
The tube may be kept for many weeks in this condition .
Again , so far as my experiments show , the action of Pseudomonas upon turnips and potatoes only takes place in the presence of oxygen .
The following are typical examples of experiments frequently repeated and always with the same results:\#151 ; A flask holding about 250 c.c. , with a tightly fitting indiarubber cork perforated to admit two glass tubes bent at right angles , was sterilised in the following manner .
The tubes were plugged at each end with cotton wool , and the plugs pushed well into the tubes , the flask being also plugged with cotton wool , and , together with the glass tubes , sterilised by dry heat .
Mean- c-v Prof. M. C. Potter .
On Bacterial while the indiarubher cork was boiled for half an hour in a 10 per cent , solution of corrosive sublimate .
The flask having cooled was then about half-filled with sterile blocks of living turnip , prepared as described above , and inoculated with a pure culture of P. The indiarubber cork , after being washed in sterile water , was quickly inserted into the flask , the glass tube being pushed through the perforations and the junctions sealed with melted wax .
The longer tube ( A ) reached to the bottom of the flask , the shorter ( B ) only slightly protruded downwards through the cork .
The action of the bacterium could be detected in the course of twelve hours , the blocks changing colour and showing signs of disintegration at the edges .
During fermentation , a considerable quantity of gas was given off , which could be collected from B over a pneumatic trough , the fluid which soon accumulated at the bottom of the flask rising in A , supplying the requisite pressure .
When the'longer tube A was left open , and a sufficient supply of oxygen could diffuse into the flask , carbonic acid was continually given off , and in the course of about a week the contents became entirely rotten and reduced to a watery mess .
When , however , in a precisely similar flask used as a control , the longer tube after a short interval was closed , and the shorter connected with a tube for collecting any gas given off , thus cutting off the supply of oxygen , the evolution of COL\gt ; soon ceased , and , as far as could be observed , the action of P. destrudam ceased also .
To carry this point a step further , and to ascertain more definitely whether the action of Pseudomonas could take place in the absence of oxygen , another series of flasks was fitted up with the two tubes as already described , the same precautions as to sterilisation being adopted , and the prepared blocks of turnip introduced and inoculated as before .
The shorter tube was now connected with a second flask containing an alkaline solution of pyrogallic acid , and the other with a bent tube containing mercury to act as a manometer , and prevent any access of oxygen from the air .
The first result noticed was an expansion of the air in the flasks , the mercury rising in the distal limb .
The mercury continued to rise , bubbles of carbon dioxide eventually escaping round the bend .
This action , however , ceased in the course of two day\#187 ; , the available supply of oxygen in the flasks and intercellular spaces being exhausted .
After a long interval ( four months\#151 ; June 6 to October 5 ) the flasks were disconnected , and the turnip blocks examined .
They still retained their original shape , and were only rotten superficially ; the pieces had somewhat lost their rigidity , but offered considerable resistance when stretched .
Microscopic examination showed all the cells to be dead , but it was only one or two layers of superficial cells which showed any evidence of bacteria action/ The cell-walls on the outside of the block were swollen and striated , and could be readily separated along the middle lamella ; the Disease of the Turnip(Brassica napus ) .
cell-walls in the interior of the tissue , however , , presented the normal appearance , neither swollen nor readily separating .
Control experiments were set up , in which , after four days , the manometer and pyrogallic flask were disconnected , and the air allowed to diffuse into the flasks ; upon subsequent examination the blocks in these were found to have become completely rotten .
We may thus infer that the action of P. destmdans only proceeds so far as a supply of oxygen is available . .
, Potatoes as well as turnips were employed m these experiments , and the results in each case were the same , except that with the potato when the flask was connected with the pyrogallic flask and manometer , immediately after the inoculation of the blocks , no bubbles of CO2 were observed to escape round the bend , and there was no indication of the rot .
Characters of Pseudomonas Destructans .
[ jiihil.\#151 ; On growing turnips producing a " A\ !
hite itot in the lir ing Mmphohgy\#151 ; Short motile rods , 3px8p , with'a single polar fla-gellum .
Culture* can only be made in the presence of oxygen .
Gelatine.\#151 ; Petri Capsules .
Forms circular colonies of whitisli-grey liquefying gelatine .
, sf(d\gt ; Cultures .
Grows rapidly along the track of the wne , forming a funnel-shaped tube of liquid gelatine , with a white , cloudy deposit in the liquid portion .
Agar.\#151 ; White , glazy growth .
Turnip*.\#151 ; Grows rapidly as a parasite .
Potato and Carrot.\#151 ; -Same effect as on the turnip .
Beetroot.\#151 ; -No growth as a parasite .
Broth.__Koch 's bouillon and turnip ; becomes cloudy and opaque .
Ferments , __A cytase , causing the swelling and softening of the cellwall and dissolution of the middle lamella .
A diastase .
A peptonising ferment , producing liquefaction of gelatine . .
Toxin.__Oxalic acid formed as a product of metabolism in turnipjuice and in Pasteur 's solution containing cane sugar .
Stains._Readily stained with the ordinary aniline dyes , but not with Gram 's method .
Iieadion.\#151 ; Residual product always acid .
Copious evolution of carbonic acid during the fermentation .
Amon^ various bacteria at present noted as causing plant diseases , that described by Kramer as attacking the potato ( Nassfaule ) approac es most nearly to the one which is the subject of this paper .
Kramer s Prof. M. C. Potter .
On a bacillus agrees in liquefying gelatine very rapidly , and it destroys the middle lamella , and finally the cell-wall .
The size of the bacterium as given by Kramer is from 2-5 / x long , and 7-8 g broad , very nearly the same dimensions as those of the turnip bacterium .
Kramer , however , has not named his bacillus , and he makes no mention of the flagellum .
He describes two stages in the decay of the potatoes .
First , an acid stage , during which butyric acid and carbonic acid are given off ; in this stage the sugars , then the intercellular substance , and finally the cell-walls are destroyed : the starch is not attacked .
Subsequently , the proteids are broken up with the formation of ammonia , methylamine , trimethylamine , and other products ; in this stage the acids are neutralised .
In the action of upon turnips and potatoes carbonic acid is given off , and the reaction of the pulp is always acid .
On referring to a chemical friend , he could not definitely state that butyric acid , methylamine , and trimethylamine are also produced ; he was of opinion that they were present , but that the decomposition is of a more complicated nature .
differs from Kramer 's bacillus in secreting a diastase , and always yielding an acid product ; further , P. destrudansliquefies the gelatine in circular areas , the leaf-like formation described by Kramer never having been observed , nor have I ever found the apparently unjointed threads as much as 16 / / .
long upon nutrient plates .
Pammel and Smith have also described a Pseudomonas ( P. campestris ) , which causes a " brown rot " in the root and leaves of various cruciferous plants , evidently quite a distinct form .
The action of the bacteria upon the cell-wall of the higher plants has been studied by several observers .
Van Tieghem , probably working with mixed cultures , has ascribed the destruction of cellulose to Bacillus mnylobader .
Van Semis has isolated an enzyme and demonstrated its solvent power upon cellulose , from two bacteria , one anaerobic , living symbiotic-ally .
Winogradsky and bribes have isolated an anaerobic bacterium which dissolves the middle lamella in the process of " flax-retting , " and sets free the bast fibres , without , however , having any action upon the cellulose .
Arthur ascribes the action of bacteria in the bacteriosis of carnations to an enzyme , but without isolating it .
Till quite recently I was unaware that any one had isolated from the bacteria an enzyme capable of attacking the middle lamella of living cells , and thus causing a plant disease .
Laurent 's valuable paper , " Recherches Experimentales sir les Maladies des Plants , 1 only obtained in August of this year .
It was published in December , 189b , simultaneously with a preliminary paper I read at the University of Durham Philosophical Society ; but previously , as early as January , 1898,1 made a brief report to the Royal Society embodying the results of my work , viz. , the isolation of the specific bacterium causing the Disease of the Turnip ( Brassica napus ) .
" White Hot " of turnips , and the isolation of an enzyme which dissolved the middle lamella and caused softening and swelling of the cell-wall .
The pressure of teaching has prevented my publishing the complete paper sooner .
Laurent , in his investigations upon the potato and the causes of its oreater or less resistance to bacterial disease , also established the existence of a cytase , which dissolved the middle lamella , rapidly softened the cell tissues , and caused the disaggregation of the cells .
The organism which was the chief subject of Laurents researches , B. eoli commmis , hvery rarely capable of living as a parasite upon potato-tubers and other plants .
He states that it was necessary for the tubers to be deprived of resistance , by means of exceptional cultures , to enable the bacillus to develop upon the potato .
From that point its virulence was increased by successive cultivations upon tubers of slight resistance , until varieties at first highly resistant ended by becoming invaded by the parasite .
The virulence disappeared as soon as the microbe ceased to be cultivated on a living tuber , cultures in nutritive solutions sufficed to suppress the aptitude of the parasite , and henceforward it could only be restored after special preparation in alkaline solutions .
P. destrudans , on the contrary , flourished on nutritive media and even after many cultivations could readily be inoculated from these on to pieces of living turnip , producing all the effects of the rot in about twelve hours ; cultures both on nutritive media and on the turnip also rapidly invaded the tissue of the potato .
Whether , therefore , it has any existence in a saprophitic form or not , it has evidently become strongly established as a parasite attacking the turnip , and probably is not confined to the turnip alone .
Wehmer has recently attempted to show that bacteria are not parasitic in the case of the wet rot ( Nassfiiule ) of the potato , and that their action is only secondary .
He maintains that bacteria only attack dead or unhealthy tissue , that the warmth and moisture of the damp chambers impair the health of the cells , and infection is only possiole under conditions which renders the tissues morbid .
The wet rot , Wehmer says , begins with a maceration of the tissues ; between the separating dead cells numerous small bubbles are to be seen and masses of a small rod-like schizomycete .
The initial stage is one of pectin-fermentation , succeeded by cellulose fermentation .
With these processes are associated two special forms of bacteria .
Wehmer s description of the rotting tissues agrees with my own , but he makes no mention of the enzyme nor of cultures of the bacteria .
His conclusions that bacteria are not parasitic cannot be accepted in view of the isolation of the special enzyme by Laurent and myself , and of my experiments proving the infection of sound , healthy turnips when growing under perfectly natural conditions .
458 On a Bacterial Disease of the ( Brassiea napus ) .
From numerous observations in the fields , I have come to the conclusion that P. destructansis always introduced at a wounded surface .
Except in eases in which the decay has proceeded to a large extent , the point from which the decay spreads is always indicated by a wound in the epidermis and subjacent tissues .
This observation is supported by the failure to infect sound roots except by first making a small incision , and from numerous trials it would appear that P. destructans is powerless to set up decay unless placed in contact with the parenchyma-cells of the cortex .
Wounds caused by various snails , slugs , and larvae , by which the bacterium could gain an entrance , are frequently to be seen on the roots , and I have no doubt the bacteria gain an easy entrance by this means .
That slugs can and do carry the various disease-producing organisms has been shown by Smith in the case of the cabbage brown rot by and the larvae of Plusia brassicce , and of the tomato brown rot by the larvae of the Colorado beetle .
G. Wagner 's experiments also conclusively prove that the spores of various parasitic fungi are very commonly distributed by snails .
Bacterial disease of turnips is much more common than is generally recognised , and the one now described is often very destructive to the crops , not only in the field but in store during the winter .
On examining numerous specimens sent me for investigation , I speedily found that what is generally known as " finger and toe " or " grub , " is by no means confined to Plusmodiophora but that many other organisms , either singly or in combination , play a very important part in the destruction of living turnips and swedes .
Finger and toe is everywhere so prevalent that in considering the nature of turnip attack it is often too hastily assumed that is the sole cause of the disease , and that the other effects are merely secondary .
In addition to bacteria and PL brassiere , I have found the turnip and swede crops to be attacked by Fusariumand also by and it is probable these do not exhaust the list of vegetable parasites foi this crop , but further research is necessary before it is possible to separate the various organisms and assign to each its role .
LITERATURE .
Arthur , J. C. " Bacteriosis of Carnations , " 'Bulletin 59 , 1896 , Agricultural Experiment Station , Purdue L Diversity/ ( de Bary , A. " Ueber eiuige Sclerotinien uud Sclerotienkranklieiten , ot .
Zeitung/ 1886 .
Fribes .
Lafar , 'Technical Mycology/ p. 197 .
Kramer , E. " Bakteriologisclie Entersuchungen iiber die Nassfaule der Kartottel-knollen/ , 4 Bot. Centralblatt/ vol. 48 , 1891 .
Lafar .
4 Technical Mycology/ p. 192 .
Laurent , E. " Les maladies des plants , " ' Annals de l'lnstitut Pasteur , Bee .
, 1898 , vol. 13 , 1899 .
The Micro-organism of Distemper the Dog , dec. 459 Misula , W. 'System der Bakterien , 'Jena , 1897 .
Omelianski .
" Sir la fermentation de la cellulose , " ' Comptes Rendus , ' 189o .
Pammel .
" Baeteriosis of Rutabaga , " ' Bulletin 27 , ' Iowa Agricultural College , Potter.9 ' ' ' White Rot of the Turnip , " ' Proc. of the University of Durham Phil. Soc. , ' 1899 .
_ .
r , .
, Smith E. E. " Pseudomonas campestris :the cause of Brown Rot m Cruciferous Plants , " ' Centralblatt fur Bakteriologie , ' Abt .
11 , vol. 3 , 1897 ; ' Spreac o Plant Diseases .
' Massachusetts Horticultural Society , March , 1897 .
Van Senus .
' Beitrage sir Kenntniss der Cellulosegahrung , ' Leiden , 1890 .
Yan Tieghem .
" Sir la fermentation de la cellulose , " ' Bull .
d. 1 .
Societe Botanique de France , '1879 .
, Wagner , G. Quoted by E. F. Smith in ' Spread of Plant Diseases .
Wehmer , C. Die Bacterienfaule ( Nassfaule ) der Kartoffelknollen , ' Benchte der deutsch .
Bot. Gesellschaft , ' vol. 16 , 1998 ; " Ueber den Einfluss der lem-peratur auf die Entsteliung freier Oxalsaure in Culturen von Aspergillus niger , " 'Berichte der deutsch .
Bot. Gesellschaft , ' vol. 9 , 1891 .
Winogradskv .
Lafar , ' Technical Mycology , p. 19/ .
Ward ' H. Marshall .
" A Lily Disease , " ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 2 , 1888 .
" The Micro-organism of Distemper in the Dog , and the Production of a Distemper Vaccine .
" By S. Monckton Copeman , M.A. , M.D. , F.E.C.P. Communicated by Sir M. Foster , Sec. P S. Deceived November 14 , \#151 ; Bead December 6 , 1900 .
( From the Brow 11 Institution .
) Distemper is so fatal a disease of dogs , more particularly of such as are highly bred , that a method of preventing invasion by the disease has always been a desideratum .
... .
As the result of investigations into the bacteriology of this disease , carried out in continuance of those commenced in my laboratory at St , Thomas 's Hospital about ten years ago by the late Everett Millais , I find that the specific micro-organism concerned is a small cocco-bac-illus , which stains with the ordinary aniline dyes , but is decolorised by the method of Gram .
It grows readily on the surface of agar at Body temperature ; the individual colonies when isolated by the method of plate-culture having a greyish , glistening , semi-translucent appearance by reflected light , and a light-brownish tint by transmitted light .
The general form is circular , but occasionally , and specially in primary 'growths , the edge is somewhat irregular .
The microbe also grows well in beef-broth , causing at first a general turbidity .
Enter on , a deposit falls to the bottom of the tube , and the supernatant liquid becomes somewhat clearer .
In cover-glass preparations from broth cultures the bacilli are not unfrequeutly found united together to form chains , sometimes of considerable length .
The bacillus is capable of growing ,

