Mr. F.G. Sinclair .
[ Nov. 26 , absolu .
En effet , nous avons neglige les cars des f et des 1/ et rien no prouve qu'en tenant count de ces cars , le resultat no serait pas change .
Mais nous pouvons dire au moins que les if et 17 , s'ils sont originaireruent tres petits , resteront tres petits pendant tres long-temps .
Nous pouvons exprimer ce fait en disant que la solution periodique jouit sinon de la stabilite du moins de la stability temporaire .
" Here the conclusion of S 9 of my present paper is per-fectly anticipated , and is expressed in a most interesting manner .
M. Poincare 's investigation and mine are as different as two investigations of the same subject could well be , and it is very satisfactory to find perfect agreement in conclusions .
i . !
' f II .
" A new Mode of Respiration in the Myriapoda .
" By F. G. Sinclair ( formerly F. G. Heathcote ) , M.A. , Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Received August 12 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The Scutigeridse respire by means of a series of organs arranged in the middle dorsal line at the posterior edge of every dorsal scale except the last .
Each organ consists of a slit bounded by four curved ridges , two at the edges of the slit , and two external to the latter .
The slit leads into an air sac .
Prom the sac a number of tubes are given off ; these tubes are arranged in two semicircular masses .
The ends of the tubes project into the pericardium in such a manner that the ends are bathed in the blood and aerate it just before it is returned into the heart by means of the ostia .
In the living animal the blood can be seen through the transparent chitin of the dorsal surface surrounding the ends of the tubes ; and in the organ and surrounding tissues cut out of a Scutigera directly it is killed , the blood corpuscles can be seen clustering round the tube ends .
If the mass of tubes of a freshly killed specimen are teased out under the microscope in glycerine , they can be seen to be filled with air .
The tubes each branch several times .
Each tube is lined with chitin , which is a continuation of the chitin of the exo-skeleton .
Each tube is also clothed with cells , which are a continuation of the hypodermis .
The tubes end in a blunt point of very delicate chitin .
Reasons for supposing these Organs to he Respiratory .
1 .
There are no other organs which could be supposed to be respiratory in function .
2 .
The tubes are chitinous , and the chitin grows thin and mem1891.1 -4 new Mode of Respiration in the branous towards the end , affording a good opportunity for interchange of gases .
3 .
The tube ends project into the pericardium , so that they are bathed with the blood .
4 .
The tubes are filled with air .
5 .
The organ is so placed as to aerate the blood just before it returns to the heart .
6 .
In Scutigera the dorsal scales do not agree in number with the legs .
The organs are arranged on the dorsal scales ; that is they are not arranged in correspondence with the mesoblastic or primitive segmentation ( see a former paper before this Society , " The Post-Embryonic Development of Julus terrestrisf 1888 ) .
This renders it probable that they are not a primitive development , but a recent modification , agreeing with the fact that all other Myriapods breathe j| by the more primitive method of tracheae .
This mode of respiration differs from that in other Myriapods in the following particulars :\#151 ; 1 .
The tubes are collected into one definite organ , instead of being distributed about the body .
2 .
The tubes have no spiral thread .
| 3 .
In acting on the blood just before it returns to the heart , so that ; | aerated blood is distributed instead of unaerated .
It resembles the tracheae of other Myriapods in the following par-S ticulars:\#151 ; of l e| A 1 .
In the air sac into which the tubes open .
' 2 .
In the cylindrical form of the tubes .
3 .
In the branching of the tubes .
The organs resemble the tracheal lungs of Spiders\#151 ; 1 .
In the large air sac .
2 .
In the number of tubes opening into an air sac .
: 3 .
In the arrangement for bathing the tubes with blood in a blood sinus .
4 .
In the supply of aerated blood by the heart .
They differ from them in\#151 ; 1 .
The form of the tubes , which in Scutigera are cylindrical .
2 .
In the absence of the membrane which in Spiders surrounds the organ .
I therefore hold that the respiratory organ in Scutigera holds a position intermediate between the tracheae of Myriapods and the lungs of Spiders .
I hold with A. Leuckart ( ' Zeitsch .
f iir Wiss .
Zool. , ' vo_ 1 ) P- 246 , 1849 , " Ueberden Bauund Bedeutung der sog .
Lungen bei den Arachnideri " ) that the tracheae have developed into the lungs of Spiders and Scorpions , and I think that the organs in question form a series of which the lowest term is the tracheae , the next the organ 0 Scutigera , then the lungs of Spiders , and then of Scorpions .

