The BAKERIAN LECTURE was delivered by JOHN P. GASSIoT , Esq. , V.P.R.S. , " On the Stratifications and Dark Bands in Electrical Discharges as observed in Torricellian Vacuums .
" The Lecturer gave an exposition of the substance of a Paper , communicated by him under the above title , and illustrated his Lecture by a repetition , before the Society , of the Experiments described .
The following is an abstract : The author refers to the stratified appearance of the electrical discharge when taken from the terminals of a Ruhmkorff 's inductioncoil in the vapour of phosphorus , and in highly attenuated gases , first noticed by Mr. Grove ( Phil. Trans. Part I. 1852 , and Phil. Mag. , Dec. 1852 ) .
Having witnessed the experiments of Mr. Grove , Mr. Gassiot in the same year examined the discharge in a barometrical vacuum in which the mercury had been carefully boiled , but he could not obtain any signs of stratification .
These experiments were subsequently repeated by several continental electricians , whom he names , and who all describe the induction-discharge in a barometrical vacuum as intensely white , and filling the whole tube without stratification .
After alluding to the experiments of the Rev. Dr. Robinson ( Proc. R. I. Acad. , Dec. 1856 ) , and to some recent improvements in the construction of the induction-coil , the author proceeds to describe apparatus which he had constructed for the more careful examination of the character of the induction-discharge .
His first experiments were made on glass tubes about 10 inches long , in which the mercury could be lowered or raised to any required level by means of the air-pump .
He also experimented with barometrical vacuums obtained by inverting a tube of about 44 inches in length , filled with boiled mercury , over a vessel containing that metal , and then sealing the tube 2 or 3 inches above the barometrical height .
The results obtained by these methods having been found unsatisfactory , the author had recourse to that first suggested by Mr. Welsh ( Phil. Trans. 1856 , p. 507 ) , by which that gentleman constructed the large barometer at the Kew Observatory .
Following out the principles indicated by Mr. Welsh , by carefully removing all trace of moisture , and thoroughly cleaning the tubes before introducing the mercury , the author succeeded in obtaining Torricellian vacuums which exhibit the stratifications in a uniform and very marked manner .
The sealed tubes generally used by Mr. Gassiot are then described .
They are made of the usual glass tubing , about an inch internal diameter , and of the form fig. 1 .
ab4__ __1 ?
-__ ____ They vary from 10 to 38 inches in length .
In the latter case the platinum wires ab are about 32 inches apart .
One tube is described 5 feet 3 inches in length , with wires 4 feet 9 inches apart .
With a tube prepared on Mr. Welsh 's principle , and the usualsized Ruhmkorff 's induction-coil excited by a single cell of Grove 's nitric acid battery , with or without a condenser , the phenomena of the stratified discharge can be seen and examined with ease , and without the trouble and uncertain manipulation of an air-pump , or the employment of phosphorous or other vapours .
If the discharges are made in one direction , a black deposit takes place on the sides of the tube nearest the negative terminal .
This deposit is platinum in a state of minute division emanating from the wire , which becomes black and rough as if corroded .
The minute particles of platinum are deposited in a lateral direction from the negative wire , and consequently in a different manner from what is described as occurring in the voltaic arc ( De la Rive 's 'Electricity , ' vol. ii .
p. 288 ) , so that the luminous appearance of discharge from the induction-machine can in no way arise from the emanation of particles of the metal .
The author describes a series of experiments made in the apparatus first prepared , by which the mercury is lowered or raised in the vacuum tube ; he describes the peculiar appearance when the mercury is made either positive or negative .
In some instances , and particularly when , instead of wires , platinum balls -th of an inch in diameter were used for terminals , the stratifications instantly ceased when the mercury rose above the negative ball ; but when the pole of a magnet was presented to the positive ball , the stratifications were drawn to the length of two or three inches down the tube .
In the sealed tubes the stratified discharge was obtained by frictional electricity ; and if a charged Leyden jar is discharged through the vacuum by a wet string , the stratifications are as distinct as from the induction-coil .
The author next proceeds to show , that by a single disruptive discharge of the primary current excited by a single cell , the entire tube , whatever may be its length , is filled with stratifications as far as the dark band near the negative wire ; and from this experiment he is of opinion that the phenomenon cannot be in any way due to the vibrations of the contact-breaker .
With one , two or three cells no appearance of a luminous discharge could be perceived on making contact , it only appeared on breaking .
If , however , the intensity of the primary current is increased by using ten or more cells , stratifications appear on making as well as on breaking the contact of the primary circuit .
These stratifications are always concave towards the positive terminal , and as the discharges , on making and on breaking , emanate from different terminals , their concavities are in opposite directions , -a fact which explains the different ways in which several electricians have described and figured the form of the discharge with the coil .
These stratifications appear in quick succession , but they can always be separated in any part of the tube by a magnet .
Under certain conditions the positive discharge assumes a peculiar form , of which the author gives a drawing .
He considers that this exhibits a direction of a force from the positive to the negative , centering to the axis of stratification , which cannot be connected with the passage of particles , and that the latter phenomenon , as it occurs in the voltaic arc , may be but the result of a secondary action .
The author notices the peculiar difference between the positive and negative discharge ; he describes an apparatus by which both terminals could be made of surfaces of mercury , or the positive of a surface of mercury , and the negative of a wire , or the reverse .
In this apparatus , moreover , the mercury at one end could be elongated 8 or 10 inches .
When the mercury was negative , its entire surface was covered with a brilliant glow ; when positive , the extreme point of the mercury exhibited intense light , but the remainder of the surface appeared unaffected by the discharge .
In order to test whether any signs of interference could be detected , he had a tube prepared with four wires , by which discharges could be observed when taken from separate coils , as shown in fig. 2 , where ab and at b6 are platinum wires hermetically sealed , as in the previously described apparatus .
Care was taken to manipulate with induction-coils giving discharges of equal intensity ; but in no case did any sign of interference appear .
The discharges , whether in the same or in opposite directions , mingled ; the stratifications , having a tendency to rotate round the poles of a magnet and obeying the well-known law of magnetic rotations , could be separated by either pole .
If , instead of sealed wires , tin-foil coatings , ab ( fig. 3 ) , are placed on the vacuum tube , and the coatings are attached to the terminals on the vacuum tube , and the coatings are attached to the terminials of the induction-apparatus , brilliant stratifications immediately appear in the portion of the vacuum between the coatings , but without any dark discharge .
On approaching a powerful magnet , the stratifications divide into two equal series , in which the bands or strata are concave in opposite directions .
If a vacuum tube , with or without wires or coatings , is placed on the induction-coil , or on the prime conductor of an electrical machine , stratifications appear which are divided by the magnet .
Having thus ascertained that there are two distinct forms of the stratified electrical discharge , the author , for the sake of clearness of expression , terms them the direct and the induced discharge .
The direct discharge is that which is visible in a vacuum when taken from two wires hermetically sealed therein ; this discharge has a tendency to rotate , as a whole , round the poles of a magnet .
The induced discharge is that which is visible in the same vacuum when taken from two metallic coatings attached to the outside of the tube , or from one coating and one wire ; this discharge is divided by the magnet , and the two divisions have a tendency to rotate in opposite directions .
The character of these two forms of electrical discharge can always be determined by the magnet .
The author concludes his paper in the following words:- " I refrain for the present from any observations as to the action of the magnet on the discharge .
The intimate relation of magnetic and electric action has long since been shown ; but the curious effect of the power of a magnet to draw out the stratifications from the positive terminal , and in some instances its powerful action on that portion of the discharge which exhibits the phosphorescent light in its greatest intensity , are worthy of further examination .
In the preceding experiments my object was directed to the examination of the stratified and of the dark baud discharge ; at present I am inclined to the opinion that the stratifications in the positive , and the dark band between it and the negative glow , although apparently similar , are effects arising from distinct causes the former from pulsations or impulses of a force acting in a highly attenuated but resisting medium , the latter from interference .
I am at this time engaged in making further experiments for the elucidation of this novel and remarkable phenomenon .
"

