389 The Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands throughout Vertebrates .
By F. D. Thompson .
( Communicated by Prof. E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received December 29 , 1909 , \#151 ; Read February 3 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) 1 .
The organs recognised as arising in the regions of the gill-clefts in Elasmobranchs are thyroid , thymus , and post-branchial body .
The parar thyroid and carotid glandules have not yet been discovered in these animals .
2 .
Within the thyroid gland of Elasmobranchs are small , solid masses of cells , partly epithelial , partly adenoid .
These have not , so far as I am aware , been previously described .
One is tempted to suppose that these are homologous either with parathyroid or thymus .
In the latter case it would correspond with thymus IY of Mammals .
( It has not been suggested that the thymus derivative of the fourth cleft furnishes isolated nodules in the thyroid of Elasmobranchs .
) 3 .
In Teleosts the only organs of the series are the thyroid and the thymus .
The parathyroid has never been described in this group , and it is doubtful whether there is any trace of post-branchial body .
The thyroid in Amiurus consists of a few scattered vesicles embedded in the connective tissue matrix ; .
The cells lining the vesicles are very low columnar , and in some cases almost flat .
4 .
In Urodela the branchial cleft organs are thyroid , thymus , parathyroid , and post-branchial body .
The thyroid is fairly superficial , and there is no intimate relation with the parathyroid .
5 .
In Anura the branchial organs are , in addition to thyroid and parathyroid , thymus , post-branchial body , ventral " Kiemenreste " and carotid gland .
The thyroid is very small and deeply placed .
The parathyroid has not yet entered into intimate relations with the thyroid .
The ventral " Kiemenrest " is a large striking-looking organ which must have been frequently mistaken for the thyroid , and appears to be a hsemolymph organ .
The arrangement of the cells in the parathyroid is somewhat characteristic , and is described in the text .
6 .
In Reptiles , thyroids and parathyroids are still anatomically separate organs , but the parathyroid in some instances possesses distinct lumina , and in this the fundamental distinction between thyroid and parathyroid is at once broken down .
Moreover , in this group there are clear indications that the post-branchial body secretes colloid .
vox* lxxxii.\#151 ; b. * 2 i 390 Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands throughout Vertebrates .
7 .
In Birds , we frequently find large areas of the thyroid either devoid of colloid vesicles , or having these in a compressed , crowded condition .
But the parathyroids are still separate and distinct organs .
The post-branchial body presents certain peculiar features , described in the text , among these being an accumulation of concentric corpuscles , such as is found in the epithelial part of the thymus .
8 .
In Mammals , there is much more intimate relationship between the parts of the thyroid apparatus than in lower animals .
The cells lining the vesicles are practically of the same character as those accumulated in varying amount between the vesicles , and do not differ in any essential respect from those forming the parathyroid glandules .
Many of the masses of intervesieular cells are indistinguishable from parathyroids .
The internal parathyroid is frequently in direct tissue continuity with the thyroid , and every kind of transition form exists .
Parathyroid has only , indeed , to have colloid spaces in its interior to constitute itself thyroid , and this occurs in the human subject under certain pathological conditions .
Parathyroids left behind after removal of the thyroid develop colloid vesicles and become practically converted into thyroid .
Moreover , the changes in the thyroid , after removal of the parathyroids , may be interpreted as the reverse change of thyroid into parathyroid tissue .
The experimental evidence as to a separate function for parathyroids is inconclusive .
9 .
Thyroid and parathyroids are to be looked upon as structures of somewhat different embryological origin , which are anatomically separate and distinct in the lower Vert.ebrata , but which come into very intimate anatomical and physiological relationships with each other in the Mammalia .
In this latter group they are , in fact , to be looked upon as constituting one apparatus .
10 .
Parathyroidectomy , like thyroidectomy , causes compensatory changes in the pituitary body .
These consist in a notable increase of the colloid vesicles in the pars intermedia .
This observation confirms the general view that thyroid and parathyroid are very intimately related to each other .
The colloid vesicles of the pars intermedia of the pituitary resemble in all respects those of the thyroid and of the parathyroid ( where such occur ) , and it is probable that the intermediate portion of the pituitary is to be looked upon as an integral part of the thyroid '\#151 ; parathyroid apparatus .

