297 Further Observations on Protozoa in Relation to Soil .
By T. Goodey , D.Sc .
, Protozoologist , Research Laboratory in Agricultural Zoology , University of Birmingham .
( Communicated by Prof. F. W. Gamble , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1916 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
297 Methods ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..a ... ... .
298 Results\#151 ; 1 .
Inoculation of Partially Sterilised Soil with 5 per cent. Untreated Soil ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 302 2 .
Confirmatory Experiment ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 304 3 .
Mass Inoculations of Protozoa ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 307 4 .
Mass Inoculations of Bacteria-free Amoeba Cysts ... ... 309 Discussion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
310 Summary .
, ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 313 Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
314 Introduction .
The work recorded in the present paper is a continuation and an extension of my earlier work on the inoculation of protozoa into soil , an account of which has already been published in these Proceedings.* I pointed out in that paper ( p. 455 ) that the introduction of large numbers of bacteria into the soil along with the added protozoa must be a source of disturbance to the bacterial flora , and by reason of this the experiments could not be considered as showing a clear- issue between the added protozoa and the soil bacteria .
The investigations dealt with in the present paper represent an attempt to eliminate this source of experimental error , my aim being primarily to inoculate a partially sterilised soil with protozoa freed from bacteria .
The work was begun some months before Russell 's paperf replying to my previous communication appeared , so that the experiments described here are open to much of the criticism levelled at the earlier work .
However , as I have obtained certain very interesting results which are worthy of record , and as I may not be able to continue the investigation much longer , it seems desirable to publish an account of the work , and give the results obtained .
My best thanks are due to Prof. F. W. Gamble for his helpful criticisms and suggestions throughout the course of the work , and especially during the preparation of this paper .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 88 , p. 437 ( 1915 ) .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 89 , p. 76 ( 1915 ) .
Dr. T. Goodey .
Further Observations on Methods .
The soil used was a fibrous loam obtained from stacked turf .
It was friable , and worked easily , containing about 18 per cent , of water by weight .
Lots of 400 grm. were put up in quart bottles previously sterilised and plugged with cotton-wool .
In order to partially sterilise the soil it was treated with 2 per cent , of toluene , which was allowed to act for two days , after which the soil was spread out in order to allow the antiseptic to evaporate .
By inoculating some of the soil treated in this way on to nutrient agar , it was found that amoebae and flagellates developed after a few days ' incubation .
The soil was therefore heated in a steamer regulated at 65 ' C. for 2 hours , in the hope of killing off all the remaining protozoa .
At the end of this treatment bacterial counts by the gelatine plate method were made , and the moisture content of the soil determined .
More agar plates were inoculated with small quantities of the soil to test for the presence of protozoa , and after about 10 days ' incubation a few amoebae and flagellates were found on the surface of the medium , thus showing that the heating had not eliminated all the protozoa .
However , no further attempt was made to eradicate these remaining forms except in the case referred to on p. 301 , and the inoculation of the desired protozoa into the soil samples was proceeded with .
In order to obtain a large number of protozoa free from bacteria I devised the following method , which , in brief , consisted in driving by means of an electric current free-swimming ciliates and other protozoan forms from a medium in which bacteria abounded into a similar medium free from bacteria .
For this purpose a glass trough supported in a wooden frame was constructed .
It measured about 7 inches in length by 4 inches in width , and was divided transversely into two equal parts by an upright glass partition which did not quite reach to the height of the two sides , and thus allowed of free communication between the two halves over the top of it .
The trough , supported on the stand of a dissecting microscope , is shown in fig. 1 .
In using the apparatus I proceeded as follows .
A mixed culture of ciliated protozoa from soil was made in 1-per-cent , hay-infusion , the following organisms being present:\#151 ; Colpoda cucullus , Col. Col. steinii , Conostomum affine , Urostyla sp. , besides a large number of amoebae and flagellates .
The surface layers of the culture containing a vast number of organisms were skimmed off and put on one side , whilst the bulk of the culture was filtered through a sterile Berkfeld filter so as to free it from bacteria .
The mixed culture of protozoa and bacteria was poured into one side of the trough to the requisite height and into the other half was poured Protozoa in Relation to Soil .
filtered culture liquid .
A ridge of plasticine was placed along the top of the glass partition in order to prevent the contents of each half mixing Fig. 1.\#151 ; Apparatus used for separating protozoa from bacteria ; for description , see text .
together .
When sufficient filtered liquid had been added the plasticine was gently removed and there was a slight flow from the filtered liquid into the side containing the protozoa .
An electric current was now passed through the liquid in the trough by means of non-polarisable electrodes .
The latter was constructed in exactly the same way as those described and figured in an earlier paper.* The current used was obtained from the 220 volts electric-light circuit and served the purposes of the experiment excellently .
A large dissecting microscope was used for observing the protozoa in the trough .
It was arranged that the current should flow through the liquid in the trough from the mixed culture to the filtered liquid , and when the current was switched on the ciliated protozoa immediately began to swim with the current over the glass partition into the filtered liquid , where they soon became so numerous that they could be seen with the naked eye as motile white particles .
After allowing the current to flow for about five minutes the vast majority of the ciliates had been driven over in the desired manner .
The current iwas then switched off and the plasticine ridge replaced on top of the glass partition .
The liquid originally containing the mixed culture of ciliates , etc. , was then siphoned off and the trough was carefully wiped out with a wad of cotton-wool , which * Goodey , 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 84 , p. 172 ( 1911 ) .
300 Dr , T. Goodey .
Further Observations on soaked up the last traces of liquid .
Fresh filtered liquid was then poured into this side of the trough until it rose above the level of the top of the glass partition .
The plasticine was again removed , allowing a flow of filtered liquid into the side containing the protozoa .
The electric current was reversed and again switched on , this time causing the protozoa to swim back into the fresh filtered liquid , in which a large number were obtained .
By this means the protozoa were washed in one lot of bacteria-free liquid rand finally secured in a comparatively clean condition .
Bacterial counts showed that the original mixed culture contained about 36 million bacteria per cubic centimetre , whilst the liquid in which the protozoa were finally obtained contained only 300,000 bacteria per cubic centimetre .
Thus a very considerable reduction in the numbers of bacteria was effected , although it was not possible to rid the protozoa entirely of bacteria : a result scarcely to be expected seeing that large free-swimming ciliates might easily carry over bacteria on the surface of their bodies .
The requisite quantity of this liquid containing " bacteria-free " protozoa was then taken and used for moistening one of the samples of partially sterilised soil .
.Another sample of treated soil was inoculated with a large number of amceba cysts free from bacteria , obtained by the following method of Cropper and Drew.* A single cyst of a small limax amoeba , obtained originally from soil , was picked off from the surface of an agar plate by means of a capillary pipette .
The cyst was lying in an area free froih bacteria , having moved out to the clean agar in advance of the growing bacteria .
This cyst was next transferred to a fresh agar plate and an emulsion of Bacillus Jluorescens non-liquefaciens in sterile distilled water was added .
After incubating at 20 ' C. for a few days the plate was examined , and it was found that the single cyst had given rise to a large number of amoebae .
Two or three more fresh agar plates were then inoculated from this culture of amoebae and B. Jl .
non-liq .
, and were left in the incubator until the amoebae had all encysted .
A 2-per-cent , solution of hydrochloric acid ( 2 per cent , of the ordinary pure reagent ) was then added to the cultures and allowed to act for two days .
It was then poured off and the surface of the cultures washed with several changes of sterile distilled water so as to get rid of all traces of acid .
This treatment killed off the bacteria but left the amoebae cysts uninjured , as was proved by making sub-cultures of the cysts on to fresh agar plates .
On these , bacteria failed to appear , but when a suspension of B. Jl .
non-liq .
was mixed with the cysts and the mixture inoculated on to nutrient agar , the amoebae excysted and readily multiplied .
Quantities of the cysts were obtained by gently scraping the surface of the agar , and * ' Researches into Induced Cell-reproduction in Amoebae , ' p. 83 .
London , 1914 .
Protozoa in Relation to Soil Bacteria .
these were made into a suspension in sterile distilled water , a measured volume of which was used for moistening one of the soil samples .
This particular lot of soil , together with one to act as a control , had been submitted to a further treatment by heating to 75-80 ' C. for 5 or 6 hours with a view to getting rid of the amoebae and flagellates which had survived the previous heating to 65 ' C. In order to estimate the numbers of protozoa in soil , cultures were made in 1 per cent , hay-infusion and on agar plates , as described in my previous communication ( p. 442).* It has been found impracticable to weigh smaller quantities of soil than 0 0002 grm. , and for estimating protozoa further than this point a dilution method was employed in which 0'001 grm. of soil is shaken up with 10 c.c. of sterile normal salt solution , and then measured quantities of the suspension are transferred to the surface of nutrient agar plates , three plates being used for each dilution ; 1 c.c. of such a suspension is equivalent to 00001 gram of soil , and so on .
I may add that this method has yielded satisfactory results .
The agar-plate method has been found the more serviceable , being especially good for amoebae , whilst the hay-infusion is better for ciliated protozoa , as illustrated by the fact that whilst from the Toluened plus ciliates ( T + C ) soil I could obtain no cucullus by the \#166 ; agar-plate method , by the use of hay-infusion this organism appeared in culture regularly down to a dilution of 1 in 1000 .
Bacterial counts were made periodically by the gelatine-plate method .
The complete set of soils as finally put u\#163 ; so as to include various controls consisted of the followingUntreated ( U ) , Toluened plus sterile distilled water ( T + W ) , Toluened plus 5 per cent , untreated soil ( T-f 5 per cent. U ) , Toluened plus ciliates in filtered hay-infusion ( T + C ) , Toluened plus mixed culture of protozoa and bacteria in hay-infusion ( T-fM ) , Toluened plus filtered culture , hay-infusion without protozoa and bacteria ( T + F ) , Toluened and twice heated plus amoebae ( T + A ) , Toluened and twice heated \lt ; TH2 ) .
Results .
The results of the periodical bacterial counts are given in the Tables on p. 302 , and are represented graphically in figs. 2 , 4 and 5 .
* 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , Vol. 88 ( 1915 ) .
302 Dr. T. Goodey .
Further Observations on Bacteria in Millions per Gramme .
At start .
After 21 days .
After 43 days .
After 78 days .
After 104 days .
After 154 days .
After 190 days .
After 223 days .
After 293 days .
After 1 323 days .
u 20 25 24 lost 25 21 16 21 23 T + W 3 130 150 100 lost 85 91 124 lost 106 T + 5 per cent. U \#151 ; 162 96 91 lost 66 103 120 50 T + F \#151 ; 320 323 144 136 67 63 107 56 T + C \#151 ; 603 396 154 l08t 126 87 121 105 T + M 595 335 209 166 131 87 111 56 Bacteria in Millions per Gramme .
After 23 days .
After 58 days .
After 84 days .
After 134 days .
After j 170 days .
After 203 days .
After 273 days .
T + A 80 151 60 53 54 58 | 53 Bacteria in Millions per Gramme .
After 27 days .
After 53 days .
After 103 days .
After 1 139 days .
| After 172 days .
After 242 days .
th2 64 82 62 64 56 63 I 1 .
Inoculation of Treated with 5 per Cent. Untreated Soil .
I propose to deal first with the results obtained from the ( T + 5 per cent. U)\gt ; soil , as these are the most important .
Fig. 2 shows the curves representing the bacterial counts for the untreated , , the ( T + W ) and the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) soils .
It will be seen that the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) curve shows a sharp rise at 21 days , reaching a much E 180 pm T60 ^140 1 0 120 / IOO / ; - it g 80 u / * ' / / - u c 60 40 t 20 \lt ; L\gt ; / * ' \gt ; .
t ^ 0 \gt ; 1 \gt ; \lt ; T+w T+5 ' ?
ooT ' Ufvtreateci CD Days .
190 223 Fig. 2 .
Protozoa in Relation to Soil Bacteria .
higher point than that of the ( T + W ) soil .
This is followed by a marked drop at 43 days , whilst the ( T + W ) curve shows a continued rise up to this time , though later on it shows a drop at 78 days .
From this point onwards until the 154th day the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) curve keeps at a lower level than the ( T + W ) curve .
Both curves rise to a fairly high level at the 223rd day , following a re-moistening of the soils , whilst at the 293rd day the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) curve has dropped to a comparatively low level again , at which time the bacterial count for the ( T+W ) soil was unfortunately lost owing to the liquefaction of the gelatine plates .
A later count , however , at 323 days showed that the numbers had kept high .
The sharp rise at 21 days , and the subsequent marked drop at 43 days in the \lt ; ( T + 5 per cent. U ) curve are characteristic features of curves of treated plus small quantities of untreated soil , as Russell and Hutchinson have shown in many experiments .
These two investigators have also attributed the fall in the numbers of bacteria to the depressing effect of the activity of the protozoa added in the untreated soil .
It will be convenient at this point to deal with the protozoal counts for the soils under consideration , and in the accompanying Table the approximate numbers of protozoa per gramme of soil are set out .
Untreated .
Nos. per gramme .
T + W. Nos. per gramme .
T + 5 per cent. U. Nos. per gramme .
At start .
At start .
After 1 320 days .
At start .
After 43 days .
After 210 days .
Ciliates\#151 ; Celpoda steinii 50 \#151 ; \#151 ; 2 or 3 100 Gonostomum affine ?
a few \#151 ; \#151 ; ?
a few 50 Rhizopods\#151 ; Amoeba Umax 10,000 100 200 600 30,000 30,000 Amoeba terricola ?
a few \#151 ; \#151 ; ?
a few j 200 1,000 Gephyramoeba delicatula ?
a few \#151 ; \#151 ; ?
a few 200 1,000 p Flagellates , sps . ?
10,000 1000 \#151 ; 1500 10,000 The following protozoa occurred so irregularly in the untreated soil cultures that it was impossible to form an approximate estimate of their numbers ; only a few of each species* however , appeared to be present per gramme of soil ; \#151 ; Colpoda cucullus , Col. maupasii , Gono-stomum affine , Chilodon sp. ?
, jBalantiophorus sp. ?
, Amoeba terricola , Leptomyxa jlabellata * Gephyr amoeba delicatula , * and Chlamydophrys sp. ? .
In the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) soil the numbers at 43 days are very striking , 'especially those for Amoeba Umax , and show that within six weeks from the * Goodey , T. , " A Preliminary Communication on three new Proteomyxan Khizopods from Soil , " ' Arch. f. Protistenkunde , ' vol. 35 , p. 89 ( 1914 ) .
304 Dr. T. Goodey .
Further Observations on beginning of the experiment there has been an increase in the numbers of this organism from about 600 to 30,000 per gramme , whilst for Amoeba terricola and Gephyramoeba delicatula there has been a multiplication from a few per gramme to about 200 per gramme of each species .
The flagellates also show evidence of marked activity , having increased from 1500 to 10,000 per gramme .
The two species of ciliates have also increased considerably in numbers .
This multiplication of protozoa has gone hand in hand with the depression in the bacterial numbers at 43 days and the only conclusion , I think , that can be drawn from this is that the bacterial decrease in numbers is the direct effect of the protozoal increase in numbers .
This result definitely supports the hypothesis of Russell and Hutchinson and constitutes the first record of its kind in the course of the investigations on this problem .
The results of the protozoal counts seem to suggest that the chief part in the-depressing action of the protozoa on the bacterial numbers at 43 days must be ascribed to the Amoeba Umax , which attained the high figure of 30,000 per gramme .
It is interesting to note also that the later count at the 210th day shows no increase in the number of Amoeba Umax over the 30,000 per gramme reached at 43 days , whereas the Amoeba terricola and delicatula have each increased from 200 to 1000 per gramme .
From this it would appear possible that a particular soil may only be capable of supporting a certain maximal number of one species of amoeba , which in the* case of this soil is about 30,000 per gramme of the Amoeba Umax in question .
This is , however , merely a tentative suggestion .
The Table shows that the Toluened plus sterile distilled water soil ( T+W ) had initially about 100 Amoeba Umax and 1000 flagellates per gramme , whilst counts made at 320 days showed about 200 Amoeba Umax , and no flagellates , the latter failing to appear in the cultures .
This indicates that there has been practically no activity and multiplication on the part of the amoeba in this soil .
In the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) soil , however , there has been marked activity and multiplication of the protozoa , and from this it would appear that a treated soil does not afford a suitable medium for protozoal activity and that in order to render it suitable a small quantity of untreated .
soil must be added to it .
2 .
Confirmatory Experiment .
In view of the important character of the results just described , another experiment was started in order if possible to obtain confirmation of them .
A quantity of soil from the same source as that used in the earlier experiment was taken and partially sterilised by heat .
For this purpose 800 grm. were taken and put up in thin test-tubes and then put into a steamer regulated at 72 ' C. and left there for five hours in the hope of killing off all forms of protozoa .
Protozoa in Relation to Soil Bacteria .
The soil was given this treatment in preference to toluening followed by heating as used in the earlier experiment because it was found that the latter treatment did not eradicate all the amoebae and flagellates .
Agar plates inoculated with small quantities of the heated soil showed no amoebae or flagellates after a week 's incubation and from this it was concluded that all the protozoa had been killed off .
The 800 grm. of heated soil were divided into two equal portions of 400 grm. and to one of these 5 per cent , of untreated soil was added and thoroughly mixed with it .
Both lots were bottled in the usual way , the mouths of the bottles being furnished with cotton-wool plugs .
The water content of all three lots , Untreated ( U ) , Heated ( H ) , and Heated plus 5 per cent , untreated ( H + 5 per cent. U ) , was 20 per cent , by weight .
The protozoal counts giving the approximate numbers of organisms per gramme of soil are set out in the accompanying Table .
Untreated .
Nos. per gramme .
Heated ( H ) .
Nos. per gramme .
( H + 5 per cent. U. ) Nos. per gramme .
At start .
At start .
At start .
After 19 days .
After 44 days .
After 92 days .
Ciliates\#151 ; Colpoda steinii ... \#187 ; 100 None 5 Rhizopods\#151 ; Amoeba Umax 3000 VI 150 1000 5000 30,000 Amoeba terricola 50 5 100 200 2,000 Q-ephyramoeba deUcatula 20 \#187 ; 1 10 20 500 Chlamydophrys sp. ?
20 1 \#151 ; \#151 ; 20 Flagellates , sps . ?
1000 JJ 50 The following ciliates cropped np so irregularly in the cultures of the untreated soil that no real estimate could be formed of their numbers ; only a few species were present per gramme of soil:\#151 ; Colpoda cucullus , Col. maupa$ii9 JEnchelys sp. ?
, Chilodon sp. ?
9 Oonastomum affine9 and Pleurotricha sp. ? .
The periodical bacterial counts are set out in the Table on p. 306 , and their graphic representation is shown in fig. 3 .
Considering now the curves for the bacterial counts , we notice that the usual rise in the ( H + 5 per cent. U ) soil , reaching its culmination at 50 days , is followed by a drop at 85 days , whilst the ( H ) curve during the same period continues to rise .
In the protozoal counts we find that the rhizopoids have multiplied enormously in numbers during the same period , the Ammba Umax reaching 30,000 per gramme 7 days after the numbers of bacteria have become depressed .
The other organisms mentioned in the Table also show evidence of marked activity ; but I wish to emphasise Dr. T. Goodey .
Further Observations on Bacteria in Millions per Gramme .
At start .
After 17 days .
After 50 days .
After 85 days .
After 126 days .
After 162 days .
u 30 16 20 12 12 12 H 2 -7 65 75 120 96 70 H + 5 per cent. U \#151 ; 86 138 95 78 58 bOI^jO Untreated Fig. 3 .
especially , at this point , the figures for the Amoeba Umax .
These are the same as those for Amoeba Umax in the earlier experiment , where 30,000 were present at 43 days , when the drop occurred in the numbers of bacteria .
The result of the second experiment fully confirms that of the first , and points conclusively to the fact that the activity of the protozoa has had a depressing effect upon the numbers of bacteria .
A further point brought out is that the limiting action of protozoa is chiefly operative through the activity of a small Amoeba Umax , and that for this particular soil , at any rate , we can say that the necessary number of this amoeba to produce the effect is about 30,000 per gramme .
In the earlier experiment the depressing effect occurred at 43 days , and in the confirmatory experiment at 85 day3 , which is 42 days longer .
It is not difficult , however , to suggest an explanation of this .
If we refer to the number of Amoeba Umax present at the beginning of the experiment we shall see that in the first case ( T + 5 per cent. U ) there were about 600 per gramme , whilst in the second case ( H + 5 per cent. U ) there were about 150 per gramme .
Thus there was a much greater initial number in the one case than in the other , and consequently a shorter time would be necessary for them to multiply and reach the figure at which they would have the depressing effect upon bacterial numbers .
Moreover , in the treated portion of the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) soil all the amoeba had not been killed off as in the treated portion of the ( H + 5 per cent. U ) , and these remaining forms , Protozoa m Relation to Soil Bacteria .
about 100 per gramme , would no doubt multiply alongside the added protozoa , having a suitable medium in which to grow , and thus contribute towards the more speedy attainment of the 30,000 in this soil than in the other , where all the protozoa were eradicated .
3 .
Mass Inoculations of Protozoa .
Turning now to a consideration of the curves for the other soils .
Toluened plus ciliates in hay-infusion ( T + C ) , Toluened plus mixed culture of protozoa and bacteria in hay-infusion ( T + M ) , and Toluened pins hay-infusion filtered through a Berkfeld filter ( T + F ) , which are represented in fig. 4 : 500 Fig. 4 .
along with the curves of Toluened plus sterile distilled water ( T + W ) and the untreated ( TJ ) , we notice a marked difference from the curves already discussed .
The ( T + C ) and ( T + M ) each show a remarkably high bacterial content at 21 days , followed by an equally sharp drop at 43 and 78 days , after which the .
fall in numbers is more gradual .
Only at 190 days do they reach a vol. lxxxix.\#151 ; b. 2 c 308 Dr. T. Goodey .
Further Observations on point below the level of the ( T + W ) curve .
The ( T + F ) curve reaches a high level at 23 days , but not so high as that attained by the ( T + C ) and ( T + M ) curves , and this is maintained at 78 days .
After this it drops rapidly , and at 154 days is well below the level of the ( T + W ) curve , a position it maintains onwards to the end .
The rise shown by all the curves at 243 days is explicable , owing to the re-moistening of the soils .
These curves are very similar to some of those dealt with in my previous communication , * as in figs. i,2 , and 6 .
The very high bacterial numbers attained in the ( T + C ) , ( T -f M ) , and ( T + F ) soils are to be accounted for , I believe , by the same explanation as that put forward for the similar high counts in the earlier work , viz. , that by the addition of hay-infusion to the treated soil the bacteria of the soil are given large quantities of food upon which they thrive and multiply .enormously , and that as these supplies of food become used up the numbers of bacteria fall .
The curves for the ( T + C ) and ( T + M ) soils are very much alike , and one can say without hesitation that the same influences have been at work in each case .
The interesting fact also emerges from the consideration of these two curves , namely that the elimination of the vast majority of the bacteria by the electrical method described above has not had the effect of decreasing the bacterial content of the ( T + C ) soil as might have been expected ; on the contrary , the ( T + C ) count at 21 days is slightly higher than the ( T + M ) count .
The protozoal counts for these soils are shown in the following Table in approximate numbers per gramme of soil:\#151 ; T + C. Nos. per gramme .
T + M. Nos. per gramme .
T + F. Nos. per gramme .
At start .
Towards end .
At start .
Towards end .
At start .
Towards end .
Ciliates\#151 ; Colpoda cucullus 1,000 500 1,000 1,000 Col. maupasii 30 ?
a few 30 ?
a few Pleurotricha sp. ?
... 50 P a few 100 ?
a few Ehizopods\#151 ; Amoeba Umax 3,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 1,000 1,000 Amoeba terricola ... \#151 ; \#151 ; 2,000 2,000 Flagellates , sp. ?
10,000 10,000 5,000 5,000 1,000 1,000 The folowing ciliates occurred in cultures of the ( T + M ) soil so irregularly that no approximate estimate of their numbers could be formed j only a few of each species were present per gramme of soil : Colpoda steinii , Chilodonsp . ?
Enchelyssp . ?
and JSpistylis sp. ?
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 88 ( 1915h Protozoa in Relation to Soil Bacteria .
The drop in bacterial numbers in all three inoculated soils ( T + C ) , ( T + M ) , and ( T + F ) is not , I think , to be attributed to protozoal activity .
The only curve which reaches well below the level of the ( T + W ) curve is that for ( T + F ) .
Now in this sample there were , as the Table shows , about 1000 Amoeba Umax and 1000 flagellates per gramme , at the beginning of the experiment , whilst in the other two soils there were much greater numbers of protozoa .
Moreover , towards the end of the experiment protozoal counts showed that there had been no increase in numbers of protozoa in the ( T + F ) soil , and from this it seems reasonable to infer that there had been no activity of the amoebae and flagellates .
Consequently the drop in the numbers of bacteria must be attributed to some other influence than protozoal action .
This statement may appear to invalidate the previous results , but reference should be made to p. 311 under " Discussion , " where an explanation is advanced which covers this and the similar cases from the ( T + C ) and ( T+M ) soils .
In the same way later protozoal counts for ( T + C ) and ( T + M ) soils showed signs of increase in the numbers of protozoa in only one case , and that is for Amoeba Umax in ( T + C ) , where the figure for this organism has risen from 3000 to 20,000 per gramme .
The ciliate cucullusin ( T + C ) has actually decreased from 1000 to 500 per gramme , and in like manner the other ciliates are not so numerous as at the beginning of the experiment .
4 .
Mass Inoculations of Bacteria-free Amoeba Cysts .
The last curves to be considered are those of the Toluened and twice-heated soil plus amoebae free from bacteria ( T + A ) , and the Toluened and twice-heated soil ( TH2 ) , which are shown in fig. 5 .
Fig. 5 .
The method by which the amoeba cysts used in this experiment were prepared has been described above ( p. 300 ) .
The protozoal counts made 2 c 2 310 Dr. T. Goodey .
Further Observations on at the beginning of the experiment showed approximately 30,000 amoebae per gramme , whilst those made towards the end of the experiment show the same number per gramme , thus indicating that there has been no activity and multiplication of the organisms added .
For this reason I do not interpret the fall in the curve of the bacterial numbers in ( T + A ) as due to the action of amoebae .
How then is the sharp rise and the subsequent drop in the curve to be accounted for ?
The only explanation I can furnish , and I think that it meets the situation , is that the nutrient agar on which the amoebae had been growing , and of which small quantities were unavoidably added along with the encysted amoebae , supplied a suitable extra food substance for the bacteria of the soil , and that they multiplied on this , and when it was exhausted their numbers fell again .
It thus comes into line with the soils inoculated with hay-infusion , where the extra food supplied gave rise to an enormous increase in bacterial numbers .
The 30,000 amoebae per gramme were added in an encysted condition , and there is no evidence that they ever excysted and became active , probably for the same reason that the protozoa in the other treated and inoculated soils failed to become active and to multiply , i.e. , because of the unsuitability of the treated soil as a medium for active trophic existence .
Discussion .
The failure of the inoculated protozoa in the ( T + C ) and ( T + M ) soils and of the residual protozoa in the ( T + F ) soil to multiply , except in the one case of the Amceba Umax in ( T + C ) , is interesting , and is probably open to the same explanation as that advanced above for the similar phenomena in the ( T + W ) and ( T + A ) soils , viz. , the treated soil , for some obscure reason , does not afford a suitable medium for protozoal activity .
This of itself is probably a sufficient explanation , but two other points are worthy of consideration in the case of these soils .
Very high numbers of bacteria were t present early in the experiment , and these may have tended to check protozoal activity , for Cunningham* has shown that the presence of large numbers of bacteria checks the development of protozoa in a medium .
It is also possible where a soil receives a mass inoculation of protozoa sufficient to give large numbers of protozoa per , gramme that this in itself may tend to inhibit their further increase in numbers .
A comparison of the curves from the mass inoculation experiments of the present and the previous investigation reveals a remarkable similarity in * ' Journ. Agric .
Sci. , ' vol. 7 , Part I ( 1915 ) .
Protozoa in Relation to Soil Bacteria .
their shape .
In all cases we get an early rise in bacterial numbers to a very high level , followed by a rapid drop .
This drop shows the coming into action of some factor limiting bacterial activity , and the explanation which I have advanced is that this is a nutrient rather than a protozoal factor .
The food added in the form of hay-infusion serves as a suitable medium for the attainment of high bacterial numbers in the soil , and on the exhaustion of this food the bacteria naturally fall in numbers .
The protozoal counts in the present investigation show that there is little or no multiplication of the protozoa added by mass inoculation , whereas the counts in the previous work did not allow of such an interpretation , for the initial and the later counts were not made by strictly comparable methods , as was pointed out in the earlier paper ( p. 442 ) .
I have no doubt now , however , in view of the results from the mass inoculations in the present investigation , that there was no activity and multiplication of the protozoa added by mass inoculation in the earlier investigation .
The drop in the curves from the experiments in the addition of 5 per cent , of untreated to treated soil in the present investigation shows the effect of protozoal activity on bacterial numbers , and the curves must therefore be interpreted as showing a protozoal rather than a nutrient limiting factor .
In the same way the curves for the ( T-f 5 per cent. U ) and ( 1846 + 10 per cent. 1870 ) soil of the previous investigation , which showed evidence of some factor checking bacterial increase , should probably be interpreted as showing the effect of a protozoal limiting factor .
The evidence at hand at the time of writing the earlier paper did not warrant this conclusion , but it was fully recognised that some factor had been introduced with the untreated soil which tended to depress the numbers of bacteria .
As a consequence , however , of the results obtained in the present research , by the addition of untreated to treated soil , it seems reasonable to bring the earlier results into line with those of the present investigation , though one cannot show the marked correlation between protozoal increase and bacterial decrease in numbers in the earlier work as one can in the later .
Three facts emerge clearly from the present investigation:\#151 ; 1 .
Where a treated soil has comparatively few protozoa added to it along with a small amount of untreated soil , these protozoa can and do multiply in the mixture , and after a time exert a depressing effect upon bacterial numbers .
2 .
When large numbers of protozoa are added in cultures to a treated soil , whether with or without bacteria , little or no multiplication of the protozoa takes place , and there is no evidence of their exerting a limiting action on bacterial activity .
312 Dr. T. Goodey .
Further Observations on 3 .
The residual protozoa of a treated soil fail to increase in numbers , even though the conditions are favourable to great bacterial activity .
2 and 3 show that the treated soil alone is an unsuitable medium for active trophic existence of protozoa .
Another point calls for some comment .
Russell has claimed , * on the strength of Martin and Lewin 's results , f that the culture fauna is distinct from the trophic fauna of a soil , and has criticised the results in my previous communication by suggesting that there is nothing to show that in the introduction of mass protozoa cultures the real trophic fauna was reintroduced into the soil .
I agree that the criticism is probably justified .
At the same time , however , I would suggest that too much emphasis should not be laid on the distinction between the trophic and the culture fauna , for the results which I have recorded from the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) and ( H + 5 per cent. U ) soils show that at least two or three species of amoebae , viz. , Amoeba Umax , Amoeba terricola , and G delicatula , are capable of leading an active existence and of multiplying in the soil , and must therefore have constituted the trophic fauna , or an important part of it , during the course of the experiment .
These are all forms which occur readily in culture ; in fact , it is by the agar-plate method that I have been able to demonstrate their presence and active multiplication in the soil .
A word also is perhaps necessary here on the numerical estimation of soil protozoa , especially in view of the remarks of Martin and Lewin on this subject in their last joint paper .
J The results given for the ( T + 5 per cent. U ) and the ( H + 5 per cent. U ) soils show that the agar-plate and the hay-infusion methods are practicable for giving rough approximations of the numbers of soil protozoa .
The methods as employed in this piece of research are probably more reliable than the dilution method , in which soil is shaken up with a liquid followed by the transference of measured quantities of the soil suspension to nutrient media , for I have inoculated both agar-plates and hay-infusion with actual weighed quantities of soil , from 1 grm. down to 0'0002 grm. , and hence have eliminated certain of the experimental errors incident to the use of the dilution method , which has only been used for obtaining quantities of soil smaller than 0'0002 grm. As methods they undoubtedly leave much to be desired , for there are so many uncontrollable factors entailed in their use .
At the same time they are the only methods at present available , and one is justified , I think , in * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 89 , p. 82 ( 1915 ) .
" 1 * Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 205 , pp. 79\#151 ; 94 ( 1914 ) ; and * Journ. Agric .
Sci. , ' vol. 7 , pp. 106\#151 ; 119 ( 1915 ) .
t 'Journ .
Agric .
Sci. , ' vol. 7 , p. 109 ( 1915 ) .
Protozoa in Relation to Soil Bacteria .
drawing conclusions even of first-rate importance from the results obtained by their use , as has been done in the present investigation .
Summary .
1 .
A method is described whereby protozoa were successfully separated from large numbers of bacteria and used for mass inoculation of a treated soil .
No positive evidence was obtained by the use of this method on the power of the protozoa so treated and added to soil to function as a limiting factor to bacterial activity .
2 .
Further negative evidence on protozoal activity similar to that adduced in an earlier communication is given by the use of mass inoculation of protozoa into soil , whether the organisms are added in mixed culture with bacteria or after separation from bacteria electrically , as in the case of ciliates , or chemically , as in the case of encysted amoebae .
The curves for these experiments are interpreted as showing the action of a nutrient limiting factor .
Suggestions are put forward which may furnish an explanation of the failure of the protozoa so inoculated to function .
3 .
Positive evidence in support of Eussell and Hutchinson 's hypothesis of the limiting action of protozoa on bacterial increase is brought forward as the result of experiments in which 5 per cent , of untreated soil is added to a partially sterilised soil .
The drop in bacterial numbers in mixtures of soils of this sort after an initial rise is well known from Eussell and Hutchinson 's results , but the further fact is revealed in the present investigations that concomitantly with this bacterial decrease in numbers there is increase in protozoal numbers .
Another point brought out in the two experiments of this class is that a certain number of a small amoeba of the group is present in the soil at the time when the drop in bacterial numbers occurs .
This number is approximately 30,000 per gramme in each case , and the periodic protozoal counts show that there has been active multiplication of this amoeba leading up to the attainment of this number , in one soil from an initial 600 amoebae per gramme and in the other from an initial 150 per gramme .
In the former case the 30,000 per gramme was reached in 43 days , at which time the drop in bacterial numbers occurred , whereas in the confirmatory experiment , which had an initial 150 amoebae per gramme , the 30,000 per gramme were present after 92 days , at which time also the bacteria had dropped in numbers .
There can be no doubt that the two phenomena of protozoal increase and bacterial decrease , as shown in the two .
experiments , are related as cause and effect .
There ' is evidence also from these experiments of the activity and multiplication of two other forms of rhizopods , viz. , Amoeba terrieola a large thick pellicled form , and Gephyramceba 314 Observations on Protozoa in Relation to Soil Bacteria .
delicatula a member of the Proteomyxa , and also of the flagellates .
The ( T + 5 per cent. U ) soil also showed evidence of the activity and multiplication of certain large ciliates , whilst the ( H + 5 per cent. U ) did not .
Conclusions .
1 .
Protozoa , especially amoebae of the group and other larger forms , can lead an active existence and multiply in soil and exert a depressing effect on bacterial numbers .
2 .
It is probable that for a given soil a certain point must be reached in protozoal numbers before the depression in bacterial numbers is caused .
In the soil under investigation this number appears to be approximately 30,000 Amoeba Umax per gramme .
3 .
It appears to be necessary to add the protozoa to a treated soil in a small quantity of untreated soil to ensure their having a suitable medium in which to grow and multiply .
Under these conditions it is shown that they can increase in numbers and depress the numbers of bacteria .
4 .
It does not appear to be possible to carry out mass inoculations of protozoa into treated soil in such a way that they come into action and limit bacterial activity , and the explanation advanced to account for this failure is that the treated soil alone affords an unsuitable medium for the active trophic existence of protozoa .

