154 Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ Dec. 32 , subject is discussed in the same manner as Boltzmann discusses the after-effect of torsion on a fibre , and it is worth remarking that the results of my experiments can be roughly expressed by a formula in A m which \lt ; fr(t)=- .
For glass No. 5 ( soft crown ) a=0'65 , whilst for ta No. 7 ( light flint ) it is greater ; but in the electrical experiment no sign of a definite deviation from the law of superposition was detected .
IV .
" Note in correction of an Error in the Rev. Dr. Haughton 's Paper 'Notes on Physical Geology .
No. V " ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvii , p. 447 ) .
By the Rev. Samuel Haughton , M.D. , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin , F.R.S. Received October 9 , 1878 .
In my paper read 20th June last , and published in the " Journal of the Royal Society , " there is an error in p. 450 which I wish to correct .
Referring to the geometrical proof of Mr. Darwin 's theorem , I state that from cusp to cusp of the cycloidal wabble occupies 152^ days ; this is an error , as it should be 305 days , as can be shown geometrically .
* ' \#171 ; Let yx , y'x ' , be two successive positions of the line joining the axes of rotation and figure ; produce them to meet at C , which will be the centre of curvature , because yx and y'x ' , are normals to the cycloidal arc yy ' ; it is well known that y0 , ( radius of curvature ) is double yx ( chord of generating circle ) or double y'x ; therefore the angle is double the angle yCy ' ; but yxy ' measures the angular velocity of the wabble , when x is supposed at rest ; therefore the angular velocity of yx is only half that of the wabble , if the axis of figure were at rest .
Hence in 305 days , yx will turn through 180 ' only , and not 360 ' .
1878 .
] Mr. J. E. H. Gordon on Electrical Constants .
This correction .
, when introduced into my calculation of Mr. Darwin 's problem , p. 182 , will double the result , and give 19,350 years to represent the 19,200 years , found by Mr. Darwin .
I would wish to add , that Mr. Darwin , in a letter to myself , proposes to call the cycloidal wabble described by him , a " lopsided wabble , " as distinguished from the simple circular " " described by me ; the one being caused by continuous motion of the axis of figure , and the other caused by sudden displacement of that axis .
V. " Measurements of Electrical Constants .
No. II .
On the Specific Inductive Capacities of Certain Dielectrics .
" Part I. By J. E. H. Gordon , B.A. Camb .
Communicated by Professor J. Clerk Maxwell , F.R. S. Received October \#163 ; 1 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) A paper of mine with the above title was communicated to the Royal Society by Professor J. Clerk Maxwell , F.R.S. , on March 9th , 1878 .
It was read on March 28th , and an abstract of it appeared in the " Proceedings."* * In the course of the summer it was pointed out to me that owing to a mistake in the formula of calculation all the results were wrong .
I , therefore , requested permission to withdraw my paper , in order to recalculate the results .
The new values of K arrived at led me to make some determinations of refractive indices and to re-write the theoretical deductions at the close of the paper .
I now beg through Professor Maxwell to present the paper in an amended form , in the hope that it may be found not entirely unworthy of the attention of the Royal Society.^ As it would be impossible within the limits of an abstract to give any intelligible account of the new method of experiment ( due to Professor Maxwell ) , which has been employed , I will merely give the table of results , reserving all discussion and explanation until the publication of my paper in full .
I may , however , state that the method is a zero method , that the electrified metal plates never touch the dielectrics , and that the electrification , which is produced by an induction coil , has an electromotive force equal to that of about 2,050 chloride of silver cells , and is reversed some 12,000 times per second .
* Ante , vol. xxvii , p. 270 .

