185 ] VI .
On the Formation of Definite the Deposition Dust .
ByW .
J. Russell , .
, F.R.S. Received January 29 , \#151 ; Read February 19 , 1903 .
When trying some experiments which had an object other than that described in the following communication , it was noticed that a fine powder when allowed to settle on a slightly warmed plate produced figures which were remarkably clear and definite .
So striking and peculiar were these figures , and so simple were the conditions of their formation , that a careful study of them was undertaken .
These figures are so clear and sharp that it is easy to obtain exact photographic records of them , an important point , for , at present , it does not seem possible to offer a simple explanation of the complicated relationships which exist between the external conditions and the figures formed .
Sensitive as these figures are to outside influences , the forms they assume are very characteristic of different conditions , are perfectly constant , and are easily produced .
The general method of obtaining these figures is as follows :\#151 ; The plate on which the figure is to be deposited is best supported on three pins about 1|- to 2 inches high , and the dust most convenient to use is that made by burning magnesium ribbon .
It is kindled and allowed to burn in a receiver .
A circular glass dish with straight sides , about 4 inches high and 9 inches in diameter , is a convenient form of vessel to use ; and if the vessel be large enough ( there should be about 2 inches between the plate and the inside of the receiver ) ; the shape and the material of this dust containing vessel is not of much consequence .
After the magnesium has burnt out , this receiver is allowed to stand for a minute or so , and it is then placed over the plate on its stand and allowed to remain there for six to seven minutes .
On removing it a clear and definite figure will be found to have formed on the plate.# If the plate has been a square one , then a cross consisting of four rays , each starting from a corner and meeting , but not necessarily joining , in the centre , is produced .
If the corners be varnished or covered by a small piece of tinfoil ( fig. 1 ) the cross is still formed .
* A photograph of the figure was obtained by placing the plate on a varnished black background , illuminating it by an arc lamp , so that the beam of light fell upon it at an angle of about 30 degrees , and the camera was placed directly in front of the plate .
Process plates were used , and the exposure was from two to two and a half minutes .
VOL. CCI.\#151 ; A 336 .
2 B 28.5.03 If the plate be triangular in form , then three rays are formed , again each starting from an angle ( tig .
2 ) , and if the plate be an octagon , then a star with eight rays is produced ( fig. 3 ) .
An angle in a plate always tends to give rise to a ray .
This is often very fine at the point , and thickens considerably afterwards .
If a flat circular plate is used , then no deposit takes place , but if it is concave , a uniform deposit over Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
the whole of it occurs , and if it be convex , then little or no deposit is formed , if any , it is in the form of a star .
When an oblong rectangular plate is used , then the rays similar to those formed on a square plate are produced , but they do not meet , but Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
are , as it were , drawn asunder , and remain at each end of the plates , being however often connected by a thin straight line ( fig. 4 ) .
In all cases , the angles of the plate determine the figure formed on it .
With regard to other general points connected with the formation of these figures .
The nature of the dust used is not a matter of importance , it may be composed of organic or inorganic matter ; the spores of a fungus , or magnesia , or the dust from ashes DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
or fumes of ammonium chloride .
In fact , the necessary condition is that the dust be very fine , then always the same figure is formed .
The product formed by burning magnesium is , however , the best form of dust to use .
It is easily obtained , and has a silvery whiteness in appearance , which gives distinctness to the figures .
With regard to the plate on which the figure is to form , its composition , like that of the dust , is of no importance ; the shape determines the figure , not its constitution .
Glass , for several reasons , is the best material for the plate , but copper , zinc , silver , antimony or other metal may be used , or ebonite , celluloid , black india-rubber , cardboard , \amp ; c. , in fact , the receiving surface is not necessarily a solid substance ; mercury in a square vessel will have deposited on it a figure similar to that on a piece of glass of the same size and shape , and , still more , the surface of the glass plate may be coated with oil , gum , copal-varnish , \amp ; c. , and the cross will form as if they were not present .
Obviously , with regard to the visibility of the figures formed , the nature of the plate is of considerable importance ; on some substances the figures are more easily seen than on others .
In the following experiments glass plates have been used , except when mention is made to the contrary .
Passing from the materials used to the active agent in producing the figures , namely heat , it should be stated that there are many different ways of applying it , and different results are produced .
The simplest way is to pass the plate two or three times over the flame of a small Bunsen or spirit lamp .
If it be a glass plate , a good indication of sufficient heating is when the condensed moisture disappears\#151 ; it is of little importance whether the heated side or the other one is uppermost\#151 ; then the plate is enveloped in the dust atmosphere by placing the receiver , filled with dust , over it , and leaving it there for the six or seven minutes .
To obtain a figure in its simplest form and as dense and clear as possible , it is necessary that the plate be equally warmed all over ; a convenient way of doing this is to lay the plate on one or copper , heated to about 20 ' C. , for about half a minute , or an ordinary air or water bath will answer the same purpose .
As long as the plate and the surrounding dust atmosphere have approximately the same temperature , the deposit formed is nearly uniform ; there is only a slight appearance of any figure , but as soon as any rise ot temperature occurs , then a figure begins to appear .
At first the indications are very slight , and occur only round the edge of the plate ; but as the temperature is raised , the figure spreads over the whole of it .
A figure may also be developed by having the plate at a lower temperature than that of the surrounding atmosphere , provided that the plate is not below 17 ' C. , but the figures produced in this way are slight and imperfect and disappear altogether when the plate is 6 ' below that of the atmosphere .
In order to determine roughly the temperatures of the plate and its surrounding atmosphere , a receiver , of the same shape and size as the glass one , was made of asbestos cloth and covered with cardboard ; in the top of it a hole was made , and a delicate thermometer introduced .
A few of the results obtained will show the nature of the alterations produced by differences of temperature between plate and surrounding atmosphere .
When filling the receiver with the magnesia smoke , it should be turned round over the burning magnesium , so as to render the whole of the inside of as uniform a temperature as possible , and before placing the receiver over the plate , after the combustion is over , it should be allowed to stand for about a minute , so that any coarse particles may settle .
First , with regard to cases in which Fig. 5 .
Fig. G. the plate is lower in temperature than the surrounding atmosphere .
If the plate be at a temperature of 10 ' C , , and the maximum temperature of the dust atmosphere be 24 ' , then a nearly uniform deposit is produced , but at the corners of the plate there is a short line of deposit , and along the sides there is somewhat less deposit ( fig. 5 ) .
If the plate be warmer , 20*6 ' , and the atmosphere 24 ' , then the above characters are Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
still further developed and a bag-shaped deposit is formed ( fig. 6 ) , and this is characteristic of what takes place when the plate is below the temperature of the atmosphere , but sufficiently warm to act .
When the plate is slightly warmer than the dust atmosphere , 1*8 ' for instance , then again a figure is produced similar in character to the last one , but a further development of it ( fig. 7 ) .
If the plate be DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
1.89 made warmer and warmer , and the surrounding atmosphere kept nearly at the same temperature , then the figure gradually alters and becomes more perfect .
If the difference of temperature between plate and atmosphere be about 5 ' , there is only a small amount of deposit on the central part of the plate , and the four rays are well developed .
When the difference of temperature is about 12 ' , then a good clear cross is formed , its only imperfection being a slight fuzz in the centre ( fig. 8 ) .
At a difference of temperature of 100 ' or 120 ' , the same figure , a cross , is formed , but the amount of dust deposited is less than at lower temperatures .
Hence , whether the difference of temperature between plates and atmosphere be very considerable or very slight , the same effect is produced .
A thick piece of glass held in the hand for 30 seconds and then placed in the dust atmosphere will have a figure deposited upon it , but the amount of deposit will be small and the figure faint .
The figures form best between certain limits of temperature , and when there is a marked difference between the Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
plate and the surrounding atmosphere .
They are very sensitive to change of temperature ; in fact , to get a perfect cross or other figure , both plate and atmosphere must each be uniformly heated .
If , in addition to uniformly heating a plate , a warmed body be placed below it and kept there during the time that the dust is depositing , there is a considerable increase in the amount of deposit and a modification of the figure formed ; for instance , if a copper cylinder , 12 millims. in diameter and 14 millims. high , heated to 55 ' , be placed 30 millims. below the centre of a square plate , then the figure shown in fig. 9 is produced .
If a piece of glass be only warmed by holding it in the hand , and is then placed immediately below the plate , but not touching it , a marked and peculiar effect on the cross is produced , as seen in fig. 10 .
If this heating below the plate be increased , either by raising the temperature of the small copper cylinder , or by using taller cylinders , so as to bring the source of heat nearer to the plate , the amount of deposit is increased , and ultimately the figure of the cross disappears , and there is uniform deposit over the whole of the plate .
On still further increasing the heat below the plate the reverse action sets in , and the amount of deposit decreases .
These changes will be described in detail later on .
Some experiments made with a Bunsen lamp show how these figures are affected by radiant heat , and the singular effects which it produces .
The flame of an ordinary Bunsen burner was placed on a level with the plate and allowed to burn while the deposit was being formed .
When the flame was at a distance of 12 inches from the centre of the plate , the cross was distorted , as shown in fig. 11 , the heat having-travelled not only the 12 inches to the plate , but also passed through the glass of the receiver containing the fumes .
In the next experiment the lamp was removed to a distance of 16 inches , then less distortion took place .
At a distance of 21 inches the effect produced was still visible ( fig. 12 ) , and even with the lamp at 26 inches the Fig. 11 .
Fig. 12 .
two rays nearest to it are slightly thickened and distorted ( fig. 13 ) , but at 30 inches no effect was produced .
Another experiment of a little more definite character was tried .
A small copper cylinder , 95 millims. in diameter and 100 millims. high , was filled with boiling water and placed at a distance of 12 inches from the centre of the plate outside the fume vessel ; the cross was affected as before , the nearest rays were shortened and bulged out .
A small candle burning at a distance of 8 inches from the plate is also sufficient to distort the figure which is being produced upon it .
It has already been shown that by increasing the heat below a plate the amount of deposit is increased ; but if this heating be carried on to still higher temperatures , the phenomena are reversed , and less and less deposit occurs .
If the copper cylinder used in the former experiment be heated to 200 ' , and be placed below the centre of the plate , no deposit forms immediately above it .
The same effect is more readily produced , and at a lower temperature , if the plate is in absolute contact with the warmed copper cylinder , and it may be mentioned here , that the only way of DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
obtaining the cross on the square glass entirely free from all fuzz at the centre , is by using as a source of heat a metal plate , and placing on it another thin piece of metal about 1 inch in diameter , and allowing the centre of the glass plate to rest upon it .
If the copper cylinder under the plate be heated to about 150 ' C. , and the plate Fig. 13 .
Fig. 14 .
rests upon it , no deposit occurs immediately above it , and this open space assumes the form of a cross ( fig. 14 ) .
That dust does not deposit on a sufficiently heated surface has long been known ; but it is interesting that in this case the portion Fig. 15 .
Fig. 16 .
where there is no deposit should be in the shape of a cross .
If the copper cylinder be heated as before and the plate not heated , but placed on it at an ordinary temperature , then there is an open space , square in general form\#151 ; possibly the former cross filled up\#151 ; formed , and in the centre there always appears a very small white cross , and over the rest of the plate , except at the corners , there is an even deposit of dust ( fig. 15 ) .
Other curious results are produced if the copper cylinder , heated to about 130 ' , be placed on the upper side of the heated plate , instead of the under one .
Then a cross is formed , but it is very much broadened out , and a deposit of dust has formed round the base of the cylinder ( fig. 16 ) .
If the plate be not heated , but the hot cylinder put upon it , then a modified effect , shown in fig. 17 , is produced , and lastly , again reversing the heating , putting a cold cylinder on a heated plate , the cross is well formed , and a curious deposit , square in shape , is found round the base of the cylinder ( fig. 18 ) .
All these forms are readily and constantly produced when the centre of the plate is heated or cooled as above described .
It will now be obvious why three wires form the best kind of support for the plates on which a symmetrical figure is to be formed .
If* a large solid support be required , a cork is probably better Fig. 17 .
Fig. 18 .
than anything else , but a cork heated to 100 ' C. caused , when supporting a square plate , a uniform deposit to take place over very nearly the whole surface .
There is still another condition which affects the formation of these figures , and that to a very considerable extent : it is whether the plate on which the deposit is forming be horizontal or not .
If not horizontal , the figure always has a tendency , as it were , to slide down the plate .
The smoothness of the glass is not essential to this effect , for if a copper plate be painted over with lampblack and a little shellac in alcohol , which gives it a rough surface , identical figures are formed .
Fig. 19 shows the deposit formed if the plate is placed on a slope of only 2 degrees , but if the slope be increased to 5 degrees , then the deposit assumes the form shown in fig. 20 , and if the slope be 15 degrees , then the deposit has the form shown in fig. 21 .
These three figures show in an interesting way the great effect which the slope of the plate produces .
There is another way by which the formation of these figures may be controlled and DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
altered to a remarkable extent , and which should throw light on the mode of their formation .
It is by the proximity to the plate of other bodies .
For instance , if a piece of glass or metal as long as the plate and 10 millims. wide be fixed against it so as to project above it , then an even deposit forms under its shadow .
If holes are Fig. 19 .
Fig. 20 .
cut in this screen , no deposit takes place on the glass in front of the holes .
Fig. 22 shows what happened when a square glass had a piece of metal with holes cut in it pressed against it .
In front of each opening in the screen there is a clear space on the plate .
Another curious , hut very complicated effect is produced by cutting a Fig. 21 .
Fig. 22 .
re-entering angle out of a square of copper .
It is difficult to follow how the deposit can form in the way shown in fig. 22a .
Bearing on this same point is the fact that if a warmed plate be placed on the floor of the vessel in which it is exposed to the dust , instead of being raised above YOL .
CCI.\#151 ; A. 2 C 11)4 DR. W. J. RUSSELL ON THE FORMATION OF it , no figure , only an even deposit is formed .
Now , if in place of a screen extending the whole length of* the plate a small one be set up , a piece of glass 5 millims. wide , for instance , the same kind of action occurs , the plate immediately behind the screen is protected , and there a deposit of* dust forms , of a curious rounded shape ( fig. 23 ) .
Fig. 22a .
Fig. 23 .
A still narrower obstruction may be used .
The effect produced by a pin fixed against the plate is shown in fig. 24 , and fig. 25 shows the effect of a fine human hair .
In neither of these cases does the deposit commence at the obstruction , but a little way Fig. 24 .
Fig. 25 .
from it .
A piece of thin wire acts exactly in the same way as a hair .
Experiments were then made to ascertain what effects altering the position of the pin would have on the figure produced , and it was found , that as long as the pin is in contact with the plate , its height above it does not affect the deposit formed .
In all these DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
195 cases , a considerable amount of deposit was formed , commencing at an appreciable distance from the pin .
The pin was then lowered , so that the edge was immediately below the plate ; when it was 2 millims. below , it produced a considerable amount Fig. 28 .
Fig. 29 .
receded , so did the deposit recede from the edge of the plate , becoming at the same time smaller in amount .
Fig. 27 shows the deposit formed when the pin was 3 millims. away , and still at the level of the plate .
Fig. 28 is the figure formed when the pin was 6 millims. from the 2 c 2 of deposit ; when 4 millims. below , the amount was much diminished , and when 8 millims. , only a trace of deposit was formed .
It was found that as the pin Fig. 26 .
Fig. 27 .
plate , and fig. 29 is the effect produced when 8 millims. away ; but when the pin was 10 millims. away , no effect was produced .
If* the pin does not touch the plate , as it did in the former case , its height again does not affect the deposit formed .
If the pin be placed at a lower level than the plate , and at different distances from it , it is still able to produce a deposit on the plate , as was proved by trying it at a constant distance of 1| millim. below the level of the jfiate , and at distances of 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , and 10 millims. from the plate .
At 2 millims. a considerable amount of deposit was formed , and the amount gradually diminishes and recedes from the edge of the plate as the distance increases .
At 2 millims. from the plate , the deposit is nearly up to the edge .
At 4 millims. it commences at 18 millims. from the edge , at 6 millims. at 27 millims. , at 8 millims. at 30 millims. , and at 10 millims. there is no deposit formed .
If the pin be placed at a still greater depth below the level of the plate , it is still able to produce a deposit on the plate , the deposit , of course , becoming less as the Fig. 29a .
Fig. 30 .
depth increases .
At 4 millims. below the level ol the plate , and 2 millims. away from it , a small deposit is formed ( fig. 29a ) , and even when it is 6 millims. below , a visible deposit is formed at the centre of the plate .
The amount of deposit produced by a pin on the same level as that of the plate , may be equalled , but apparently is never exceeded .
It has already been shown that no deposit takes place on warming and exposing to dust a circular plate , but if a pin be placed at different distances from it , and either above or below it , deposits are produced similar to those formed on any other shaped plate .
It is certainly remarkable that a pin so far from the plate and so much below it should be able in so definite a way to affect what is taking place upon it .
There still remained another way in which the pin could be presented to the plate , namely , by holding it above the plate .
If a pin 50 millims. long be held 6 millims. above and 3 millims. beyond a plate it produces no effect on the figure , but if the pin be simply lowered , so that it is only 4 millims. above the plate , then a slight deposit DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
at the centre is formed , and when the pin was only 2 millims. above the plate and still 3 millims. from it , increase in the deposit occurred .
In all these cases with the pin supported from above much less deposit was formed than when the pin was pointing upwards .
If the pin be bent at a right angle , it produces on the plate a deposit similar in form and amount to that produced by a vertical pin at the same distance from the plate .
This action of any neighbouring body on the dust deposit is shown by any rough edge which the plate itself may have .
If , for instance , a glass plate he used and it has been cut in the usual way , in addition to the figure which is dependent on the shape , there will be certain lines of deposit darting out in different directions ; these are produced by small splinters of glass attached to the edge .
Fig. 30 shows this on an oblong glass and fig. 31 on a circular glass .
If the edges of the plate be carefully ground , then these lines of deposit cease to be formed .
Fig. 32 shows a square glass , two of whose edges were left rough and the other two were ground .
There are many curious alterations in the forms of the figures produced by placing on the plate obstructions to the flow of these lines of dust .
For instance , taking again a square plate , if a strip of glass 1 millim. high and 1 millim. wide be placed across one corner of the plate and then the cross be developed , it has no effect , the cross forms as if no obstruction were there , but if the strip be 7 millims. high , then a marked effect is produced .
In front of the strip the ray retains its usual form , but on the other side and round the centre there is a great widening-out of the ray and a slight banking-up of the dust against the sides of the glass strip .
This effect of the obstruction strip is shown in fig. 33 .
If the strip be even 20 millims. high it acts in the same kind of way .
If a strip 5 millims. high and 30 millims. long be placed parallel with the edge of the plate , and nearly at the centre , the cross is altered in a remarkable way , shown in fig. 34 .
The following figures show the effect which other forms of obstruction have on these dust figures .
A glass ring 4 millims. thick and 075 millim. high was placed at the centre of a square plate , and produced no alteration of the cross ( fig. 35 ) .
Then a ring 1*5 millim. high was used , and it produced but little effect ( fig. 3fi ) ; Fig. 33 .
L''ig .
34 .
but when a ring 3 millims. high was used , then the central part within the ring became to a considerable extent thickened , and much deposit was formed ( fig. 37 ) , and when the ring was 5 millims. high an even deposit was formed inside the ring , but the rays of the cross outside were not affected ( fig. 38 ) .
The effect of offering Fig. 35 .
Fig. 36 .
obstructions of different kinds to the liow of these dust currents was further tested by supporting from above , instead of from below , a strip of glass longer than the square plate on which the deposit was to be formed .
When this is hung against the side of the plate , a dense deposit takes place all along this edge , but when the screen extends about 10 millims. on both sides beyond the plate , the deposit stops at DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
4 millims. from the edge of the plate at both ends , and is conical in form .
If the strip had been of the same length as the plate , the deposit would have reached , as shown in former experiments , very nearly the whole length of the plate .
If the hanging screen he raised 2 millims. above the plate , then in place of a long line of Fig. 37 .
Fig. 38 .
deposit there is a line of clear space some 7 millims. wide , and at the ends are delicate curved lines extending to the corners of the plate , and beyond this open space there is the conical deposit as in the former case ( fig. 39 ) .
In raising the screen so that it was 4 millims. above the plate , the depth of the clear space increased and was now Fig. 39 .
Fig. 40 .
Fig. 41 .
12 millims. from the edge .
When the screen was 6 millims. above the plate , the clear space became strongly curved , and at the top of the curve was 20 millims. from the edge of the plate , and when 10 millims. above the plate the normal rays of the cross were well developed , and a well defined hut slightly distorted cross was formed , I \gt ; R. W. J. RUSSELL ON THE FORMATION OF so that the hanging screen at this height exercises but little influence on the figure formed below it .
The same hanging screen was now allowed to rest on the plate , but at a distance of 15 millims. from the edge , and a pin was placed against the edge of the plate .
Fig. 40 shows well the different actions which came into play , that of the pin , of the corners of the plate , of the screen , and of the broken corner producing a forked ray .
The hanging screen was now raised to 3 millims. above the plate , the current now passed under it , and gave the curious picture ( fig. 41 ) with distinct side wings .
Another way of offering obstruction to these dust currents was to place above the plate on which the deposit is to take place , other plates at different heights , and of varying sizes , some larger and some smaller than the plate which is to receive the figure .
First taking the case of placing a plate larger than the one on which the deposit is to form above it , the large one was inches by 4f inches and the smaller was 3 inches square .
The upper part was supported on vulcanite pillars , so far from Fig. 42 .
Fig. 43 .
the plate as not to influence the figures formed .
It was found that when the distance between these plates was 1 millim. no deposit took place ; hut when this distance was 5 millims. a deposit did take place , covering most of the curved outline , and passing into each of the corners , but less deposit occurred in the middle of the figure ( fig. 42 ) , and was apparently an early stage of the cross .
If the distance between the two plates be 10 millims. , the amount of even deposit is less , and when the distance is increased to 15 millims. a considerable change has occurred , and fig. 43 is formed , the cross still further developed , and when the distance between the plates is 20 millims. , then a perfect cross forms .
If the upper plate , in place of being larger , is of the same size as the lower one , different results take place .
Plates 3j inches square were used , and the upper one was suspended above the lower one .
When the distance between the plates was 1 millim. , again no dust entered , but when it was 2 millims. there was a small amount of deposit at each of the corners , and when 3 millims. a considerable increase of deposit DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
occurred , but it was still limited to the corners ( fig. 44 ) .
When the distance between the plates was 4 millims. , a further inroad of dust took place , and when 5 millims. , the centre is the only part without deposit , but from the entrance of the dust being principally at the corners , a rough cross , formed by absence of dust , and pointing to the centre , is distinguishable ( fig. 44a ) , and at 7 millims. there is an even deposit .
Fig. 44 .
Fig. 44a .
In the next set of experiments the covering glass , in place of being as large as the lower glass , was only a strip 14 millims. wide and 190 millims. long , and lj- millim. thick .
It was supported on vulcanite pillars which did not influence the depositions Fig. 46 .
of the dust .
When this strip was 1 millim. above the plate no deposit took place ; when 2 millims. above the plate a.small amount occurred , and this was at a distance of 7 millims. from the edge of the plate , and of a curved form , of course , under the strip ( fig. 45 ) .
The strip was now raised to a height of 3 millims. , and the amount of deposit not only increased , but receded further from the edge of the plate , and was VOL. cci.\#151 ; a. 2 D Fig. 47 .
now 12 millims. from it .
On still further increasing the distance between the strip and the plate , the amount of deposit goes on increasing and travels nearer the centre .
When raised to 4 millims. above the plate the deposits have met in the centre , and when the height between the plates is 7 millims. , then the deposit is 15 millims. from the edge , and when 10 millims. above the lower plate the deposit is 18 millims. from the edge , and is central to the large cross ( fig. 46 ) .
At a distance of 15 millims. the strip no longer produces any effect , the ordinary large cross forms .
In order to ascertain whether any figure could be formed by a dusty atmosphere when in motion , magnesium was burnt in an asbestos tube , while a current of air was being drawn through it .
The asbestos tube was attached to a glass tube , 32 millims. in diameter , and in this tube pieces of glass of different lengths were introduced for the figures to form on .
It was found that a peculiar and characteristic figure was always produced .
It consists of a multitude of dust streams which unite into a single stream , as shown in fig. 47 .
If the tube be wider , the same picture is formed by increasing the amount of air drawn through the tube .
It may also be stated that if the dust atmosphere be violently disturbed by means of a stirrer , while the dust is settling on the plate , it produces no alteration of the figure which is forming without the stirrer comes very close to the plate .
This figure , formed in the tube , is probably of a somewhat different character from the previous ones , for it forms quite as readily when the plate is not warmed as it does when it is warmed .
When the dust is obtained by burning magnesium , the magnesia formed undergoes some curious changes .
The figure when first formed lies loosely on the plate , the slightest friction will remove it .
If , however , it be left exposed to the air , it loses its silvery whiteness and becomes more and more attached to the glass , so that after about a week or fortnight the figure may be lightly rubbed without its being removed .
Again , the magnesia itself undergoes a change of form immediately after its production .
If the dust be collected at once , that is , while the magnesium is still burning , and be examined under a microscope , it will be seen that it is made up of small separate irregular-shaped particles about 0'005 millim. long ( fig. 48 ) ; but if the dust be collected after the combustion is over , and it has stood for one or two minutes , then its form is different , for it now Fig. 48 .
DEFINITE FIGURES BY THE DEPOSITION OF DUST .
consists of particles strung together and having a distinctly fibrous structure ( fig. 49 ) .
It is in this form that the dust exists when forming pictures .
It has already been stated that magnesia dust , if allowed to deposit on mercury , forms the ordinary cross ; on the contrary , if it be allowed to deposit on water at about 17 ' , or on a mixture of water with a little alcohol or glycerine , then the deposit which forms on the surface breaks up , as the dust sinks , into a figure having a cellular form ( fig. 49a ) .
As before stated , other powders than magnesia act in the same way .
For instance , a figure , corresponding exactly with those described as produced by the action of a pin , and magnesia , is also produced with fine fungus spores , dust from ashes , or ammonium chloride .
It is interesting to note that if the warmed glass be rubbed with a piece of flannel , and then exposed to the dust , in place of a fine even deposit a very strongly fibrous 2 d 2 Fig. 49 .
Fig. 49a .
Fig. 50 .
Fig. 51 .
one forms ( fig. 50 ) .
Even small specks of dust in this fibrous form act very strongly in the same way as the pin or rough edge of a glass in inducing deposits to take place .
If the plate be charged with negative electricity , then a deposit much finer in character is produced ( fig. 51 ) .
It is remarkable that these figures deposited by a dust-laden atmosphere , should be so sharp in outline and definite in form .
They originate , no doubt , in the currents set up by the warming of the plate , but that these feeble currents should so completely and persistently prevent the deposition of dust at certain places , and determine its precipitation at others , was hardly to be anticipated .
Especially may reference be made to the singular action of the pin both near and at a distance from the plate , and the apparently complicated way in which obstructions act in altering the form of the deposits .
The formation of the figures taking place as readily on copper or other metals , as on glass or ebonite , indicates that the phenomena are not purely electrical .
It is hoped that by the foregoing records and descriptions of these singular figures , physicists may be enabled to explain their formation .
I wish to record that this investigation was carried out in the Davy-Faraday Laboratory at the Royal Institution , also that my best thanks are due to my assistant , Mr. Olaf Block , for the important aid which he has given me .
INDEX SLIP .
7----- AND ALL , A.R.C.Sc .
Lockyeb , ( Sir ) Norman , and Baxandall , F , E.\#151 ; The Spectrum of y Cygni .
Phil. Trans. , A , \ol .
201 , 1903 , pp. 205-222 .
Baxandall , F. E. , and Lockyeb , ( Sir ) Norman.\#151 ; The Spectrum of y Cygni .
Phil. Trans. , A , yoI .
201 , 1903 , pp. 205-222 .
Star\#151 ; -Spectrum , of y Cygni .
Lockyeb , ( Sir ) Norman , and Baxandall , F. E. Phil. Trans. , A , vol. 201 , 1903 , pp. 205-222 .
Stars , Classification of\#151 ; y Cygni .
Lockyeb , ( Sir ) Norman , and Baxandall , F. E. Phil. Trans. , a , vol. 20i .
1903 , pp. 205-222 .
nunicated to the Royal possible to classify the of some of the groups is of the lines on which epresent the groups of n ) , Tauri ( Taurian ) , temperature stage next es of the metallic lilies 3 also interesting as the 3 , in which the arc lines chiefly composed of the lght important to make oup .
Of the existing )f y Cygni is the best ited .
relative positions of the artmann 's interpolation reduction , only sharply-e nature of which there * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 , p. 186 .
f ' Catalogue of 470 Brighter Stars , ' published by the Solar Physics Committee .
( 337 .
) 19.6.03

