VI .
" On the Electrical Nature of the Power possessed by the Actinie of our Shores .
" By RoBERT M'DONNELL , M.D. , M.R.IA .
, Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Carmichael School of Medicine , Dublin .
Communicated by WILLIAM BOWMAN , F.R.S. , Surgeon to King 's College Hospital and the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital .
Received November 30 , 1857 .
After referring to the well-known phenomena manifested by electrical fishes , and to alleged instances of numbing effects , but of doubtful electrical nature , produced on the naked hand by the contact of certain marine Invertebrata , the author describes his own observations and experiments with the Actinia as follows : Suppose that into a vessel containing some actinice well expanded , and apparently on the look-out for food , some of the tadpoles of the common frog be introduced , these little creatures do not , like many freshwater fishes of about the same dimensions , immediately die ; on the contrary , the salt water seems to stimulate their activity , they become very lively and swim about with vivacity .
One of them may not unfrequently be observed to make its way among the tentacles of an actinia and get off again quite uninjured ; it may even for a time nestle among the tentacles with as much impunity as if it were only in contact with a piece of sea-weed ; but should the tadpole have the misfortune to fall in with a more voracious actinia , the reception it meets with is very different .
Sometimes , when by an incautious lash of its tail it touches even a single tentacle , it may at once be laid hold of , and in the violent efforts which it forthwith makes to break loose , often merely brings itself within the reach of other tentacles , by which it is seized and overpowered .
Occasionally , however , after having been thus seized , the tadpole by its superior activity succeeds in effecting its escape , and when it does so , it seems for a time singularly excited ; it twists and writhes and wriggles through the water , so as to leave no doubt that some very remarkable influence has been exerted upon it .
These observations are no dolbt familiar to all who have studied the habits of these animals ; for although the tadpole seems more susceptible of the peculiar stimulus which the actinia can communicate than most of those creatures which are ordinarily cast in its way , yet the same occurrences take place with the small crustaceans , &amp;c. which are abundant in sea-water .
Indeed no very close attention is necessary to perceive , that while on some occasions these little animals may creep to and fro over the surface and among the tentacles of the actinia , at other times they are seized and killed with the greatest promptitude .
It remained to be determined what is the exact nature of the power which the actinia has been thus found to have under its control .
If it seized its victim by a simple mechanical effort , why should the tadpole be so agitated for some time after having escaped from its grasp ?
No peculiarly viscid secretion could be detected on the tentacles , nor could any decided reaction be discerned on their surface differing from the feebly alkaline condition of the sea-water in which they were placed ; moreover , the power of the actinia seemed often to be exerted with too much promptness to be compatible with the notion of the formation of a poisonous or stinging fluid over its surface .
On the hypothesis that it is an electrical power with which the actiniae are endowed , it is obvious that the existence of animal electricity in them ought to be experimentally demonstrable by its physiological effects , inasmuch as these phenomena are the most striking which animal electricity is capable of producing in common with other electricities derived from different sources .
The following experiments , in which the frog 's limb was used as a galvanometer ( the limb of this animal being , as is well known , an instrument of extreme delicacy for this purpose ) , seem satisfactorily to establish the fact that the common actiniae of our shores are gifted with electrical power .
1st .
Having prepared the lower limb of a lively frog after the mode described by Matteucci , by stripping off the skin , dissecting out the sciatic nerve from among the muscles of the thigh , and then cutting off the thigh a little above the knee , so as to leave the nerve uninjured and as long as possible , the limb was laid on a small piece of glass , so that the nerve hung down over its edge .
The pendent nerve was lowered into the water and gently brought in contact with the tentacles of an expanded actinia .
From the first or the second , or even several , possibly no effect may result , but arriving at last at one more vigorous than his neighbours , smart muscular contractions follow as he grasps the nerve in his tentacles , and the toes are thrown into active movement .
2nd .
The next experiment , although of precisely the same nature as that first detailed , renders the effect produced on the muscles of the frog 's limb more striking .
A large and lively frog is killed , the skin is stripped off , and the viscera being removed , the body is cut off about the middle ; a knife being slipped behind the lumbar plexus of nerves , the pelvic bones and contiguous soft parts are cut away , so that the lumbar vertebre remain connected with the lower extremities merely by the nervous cords passing to each limb .
Thus prepared , the limbs are laid on a thin piece of board , so that the vertebrae hang over its edge dangling by the undivided nerves .
The piece of board is placed floating on the surface of the water in which are the actinive , and is slowly pushed over within reach of an active one .
Immediately that the actinia seizes the morsel thus offered to it , contractions are observed to commence in the thigh , extend to the calf , and soon the toes are in movement .
3rd .
In order to set aside the supposition that these muscular contractions might be the result of chemical or mechanical irritation applied to the extremities of the nerves , it became necessary to devise a modification of the foregoing experiments ; for although irritants , such as turpentine , croton oil , ammonia , friction with a nettle leaf , &amp;c. , were applied to the nerves without producing any effect like that obtained from the actiniae , it seemed still possible that the contractions might be due to some other agent than electricity .
The following experiment seems to remove all doubt .
A piece of copper wire , a few inches long , was coated with sealing-wax , except about half an inch at each end ; the ends were rubbed clean with sand-paper , one of them was thrust into the lower part of the spinal canal of a frog prepared as in the last experiment , while the other , which was to be offered to an actinia , was passed into a portion of the frog 's intestine put on like a glove ; for the actinia does not seize vigorously metallic substances .
The limbs of the frog with the nerves and vertebrae attached , are laid on a piece of board , while the copper wire , which is curved , arches over the edge of it ; so that the end covered with frog 's intestine can be readily brought within the reach of the actinia .
Having waited for a few minutes until the muscular contractions excited by thrusting the wire into the spinal canal have ceased ( and they are in general very transient ) , the board is placed floating on the water , and the frog 's intestine offered to an actinia ; muscular contractions ensue , perhaps not so promptly , certainly not so vigorously as in the former experiments , but nevertheless easily to be recognized and unmistakeable .
They commence in the thighs , and , as in the former case , extend to the calves , and then the toes move actively .
This last experiment has been modified in a variety of ways , but the same result has been constantly obtained .
-Perhaps the best modification of it is to use a piece of copper wire having one end coiled so as to form a disk which is covered with chamois-leather , while the other is sharp-pointed to enter the spinal canal of the frog .
The whole , except the surface of the disk , which is to be given to the actinia , and the point for the spinal canal , is covered with sealing-wax , and the frog 's limbs extended upon a thin piece of board .
With this arrangement precisely the same effects were produced as already described .
It is a remarkable fact , and deserves special notice , that in all these experiments the muscular contractions , when once strongly excited , whether by direct contact or through the medium of wire , do not at once subside .
When the limbs are withdrawn from the influence of the actinia in the first experiments , or removed from the wire in the last , strong muscular contractions continue to take place for from three to five minutes .
All the varieties of actinia which have hitherto been made the subject of experiment , have given similar evidence of electrical power , but by no means in an equal degree .
The large varieties are found , in proportion to their size , much feebler than those of less dimensions , and any attempt to succeed in the experiment with the copper wire has failed with them .
A somewhat similar observation has been made by Dr. John Davy regarding the torpedo , for he tells us ( Philosophical Transactions , 1834 , p. 548 ) that he has seen strong vivacious fish which made great muscular exertions in the water , almost or entirely destitute of electrical action .
It is obvious that in creatures of such moderate dimensions as actinime , of so peculiar a form and of such feeble power , much difficulty is to be expected in demonstrating the other experimental effects which animlal electricity is capable of producing in common with other electricities , viz. magnetic deflection , -magnetising of needles , -spark , -heating power , and chemical action ; and it must be admitted that all experiments hitherto undertaken on this subject have been attended with negative results .
I hope , and indeed expect , when further opportunities are afforded of examining these creatures in health and vigour in their native pools , to obtain more satisfactory results on these points , when I shall look forward to the pleasure of making a further communication on the subject .

