390 Dr. A. W. Campbell .
[ Dec 3 Addendum , January 19 , 1905.\#151 ; The three rats inoculated on August 30 , 1904 , with extract of spinal cord have become paraplegic : one on December 14 , 1904 , one on January 2 , 1905 , and the third on January 11 , 1905 .
No Trypanosomata have been seen in the blood of these animals , and , apart from paralysis of the hind limbs , they show no signs of ill health .
The spinal cord shows amoeboid forms of the Trypanosomata in its tissue , and a considerable cellular exudation around the vessels ; this lesion Dr. Mott found to be characteristic of cases of human Sleeping Sickness , and it is not found in monkeys , which have been the animals principally used in experimental work on this disease .
" Further Histological Studies on the Localisation of Cerebral Function.\#151 ; The Brains of Canis , and compared with that of HomoBy Alfred Walter Campbell , M.D. Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. Received December 3 , 1904 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1905 .
( Abstract .
) The present study is founded on an exhaustive examination of the cerebral cortex of Felis domesticus , Canis familiaris , and communis , conducted on lines similar to those followed in the original work .
A recurrence in the lower mammal of distinctive types of cortex , akin to those recognised in the human brain , has allowed a subdivision of the surface into the following areas :\#151 ; Crucial or motor ; postcrucial or sensory ; parietal ; visual ; ecto-sylvian ; limbic ; rhinie ; extrarhinic ; frontal .
By a study of the distribution of these areas many functional analogies and structural homologies , previously unknown or misinterpreted , are made clear .
Crucial or Motor Area.\#151 ; Giant cells of Betz characterise the motor cortex , but these elements appear not to be so highly specialised in Sus as in Felis and Canis .
Such cells reside in what we may call the cruciate zone , and it is maintained that this field is functionally and morphologically akin to the motor area , as defined by Professors Sherrington and Griinbaum in the anthropoid ape , and by myself in man .
It is held that a small indentation , called the " compensatory ansate " sulcus , and the sulcus coronalis are respectively interchangeable with the upper and lower constituents of the primate fissure of Rolando , chiefly because they , like the fissure of Rolando , limit the * This paper is an addendum to the work presented to the Royal Society in November , 1903 ( see 'Proceedings , ' vol. 72 , p. 488 ) .
The complete work will be published shortly in full by the Cambridge University Press , by aid of a subsidy from the Royal Society .
1904 .
] On the Localisation of Cerebral 391 motor area on the parietal side .
In man and the man-like ape , an unnamed but constant fissuret , situated on the paracentral lobule* immediately below and in front of the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando , is looked upon as the homologue of the sulcus cruciatus .
Visual Area .
\#151 ; Showing how greatly the lower mammal relies on sight in the contest for survival , quite one-sixth of the brain surface is allotted to visual cortex .
Architecturally it is astonishing how closely the human plan is followed .
The lessons in homology learned !
are , that the " true calcarine " fissure ( Elliot Smith 's nomenclature ) of lower mammals is the antecedent of the anterior calcarine fissure or " stem " of Homo , that the intercalary sulcus does not develop into the calloso-marginal of man , but undergoes retrograde changes , that the posterior calcarine fissure may continue as such , and that the suprasplenial sulcus of Canis and Felis ( the so-called " lateral " sulcus , of Sus ) is the derivative of the human fissura extrema of Seitz ( the Simian " sulcus intrastriatus lateralis " ) .
The research throws no light on the problem of the " Affenspalte .
" Postcrucial or Sensory Area.\#151 ; The postcrucial or sensory field forms , a morphological buffer to the crucial or motor , and is maintained to be the homologue and analogue of the postcentral area in primates .
Lobus Pyriformis and Hippocampal Region.\#151 ; The variations in distribution of the different types of cortex found hereabouts are contrasted in .
the microsmatic and macrosmatic brain .
Limbic Area.\#151 ; It is found that types of cortex akin to those* recognised in man are repeated in the lower mammal .
The genual fissure is taken as the homologue of the calloso-marginal .
Parietal Area.\#151 ; Histology suggests that this field is the forerunner of the parietal area in Homo , and that its cortex is older , in the sense of phylogeny , than frontal cortex .
Support is given to the assumption that the lateral sulcus , as seen in most mammals , is the antecedent of the intraparietal sulcus of primates .
In Sus , the so-called " supra-sylvian " sulcus is really the lateral , the true suprasylvian sulcus being ; both placed at a lower level and rudimentary .
Edosylvian Region.\#151 ; Out of the ectosylvian region of lower mammals , is developed the sylvian region , including the insula , and much of the temporal lobe of primates .
A small field investing the so-called fissure of Sylvius of lower mammals appears to be the analogue of the " audito-sensory " area of man and the homologue of the transverse temporal gyri .
From this as a basis important deductions can be drawn .
Frontal Lobe.\#151 ; The types of cortex which characterise the frontal lobe in man are not represented in lower mammals .
Some General Conclusions.\#151 ; The stability of the architectural plan of any given field of cortex is directly related to the phylogenetic age of that cortex and to the importance , as a means to survival , of the function it subserves .
VOL. LX XIV , 2 G 392 Prof. G. Forbes .
Exterior Ballistics .
[ Dec. 19 , The human brain shows signs of having expanded more decisively in some parts than in others , yet that expansion , if we except the visual and olfactory areas , has been general in kind .
By super-imposing on our cerebral plans drawn from naked-eye inspection others giving the results of histological examination , this as a preliminary to the final localisation of function by the physiologist and workers in other departments , all existing doubt on various homologies may be removed .
\#171 ; Exterior Ballistics.\#151 ; ' Error of the Day/ and other Corrections to Naval Range-tables .
" By Professor George Forbes , F.E.S. Received December 19 , 1904 , \#151 ; -Read January 26 , 1905 .
One of the most common problems that meet artillerists is that of correcting for retardation caused by air-resistance , this being proportional to the air-density .
The published range-tables , as calculated for any type of gun with given weight and form of shot , and given charge of powder , are based on trials with different elevations when the range and time of flight are measured directly .
The range-tables are calculated from the experiments by making corrections for muzzle velocity and for air density .
The problem now before us is to find a simple rule for deducing from the published range-table another range-table with a different air-density .
Abscissa } represent ranges .
Ordinates represent elevations .
pp ' range table elevations at normal air density .
Q(V M with air density increased 10 per cent. QP = tt OP , Q'P ' = tt OP ' .
The solution of this problem , for ' flat trajectories at least , M extremely neat when stated geometrically .
Draw a curve in which abscissae are ranges and ordinates are the elevations of the range-table .

