3 .
" On the Influence of the Moon on the Atmospheric Pressure , as deduced from the Observations of the Barometer made at the Magnetic Observatory at St. Helena .
" By Lieutenant J. H. Lefroy , R.A. , late Director of that Observatory .
Communicated by Lieut.-Col. Sabine , R.A. , F.R.S. In order to determine the dependence of the barometric pressure on lunar influence , the author arranges all the two-hourly observations in each lunar month with relation to the time of the moon 's passing the meridian ; entering in one column the observation of each day nearest to the meridian passage , whether before or after ; and en ?
tering in separate columns those corresponding to two hours , four hours , six hours , &amp;c. , before and also after that observation .
The monthly means at every two hours from the meridian passage are then taken ; and again , the means at the same intervals , for each three months from September 1840 to December 1841 .
From the results thus obtained the author states that it appears that the moon 's passage over both the inferior and superior meridian produces a slight increase of pressure ; a maximum in the curve occurring at both ( that of the latter being slightly the greater ) , while the minima correspond to the moon 's rising or setting .
It appears also , that the rise of the tides will not account for the whole amount of the increase of pressure , even admitting that it has a tendency to produce an effect of that nature .
The times of maxima do not correspond ; and there appears to be no atmospheric establishment .
The pressure is greater about the period of new moon than at full moon ; and greater in the third and fourth than in the first and second quarters ; a result which agrees with that given by Mr. Howard for the climate of London .
The observations of both years agree in making the pressure greater under the Peri ?
gee than under the Apogee .
Mr. Howard had found that the mean pressure in Great Britain , which is in the opposite hemisphere from St. Helena , is greater under the Apogee than under the Perigee .
4 .
" Notices of the Aurora Australis from the 1st to the 31st of March 1841 , made on board H.M.S. Erebus ; extracted from the log-book .
" By Captain James Clark Ross , R.N. , F.R.S.

