70 Mr. D. O. Wood .
Liberation of [ Apr. 12 , the average uniformly distributed through space .
The only way I can see to save such an hypothesis is either to assume a limited universe , not spherical in form , or to suppose light absorbed in transit .
It will be interesting to inquire further into the effect of modifying the form of a uniformly dense stellar universe , and secondly to inquire whether when we confine our stars to one spectral class we get any difference in the general nature of the above deviations .
In conclusion , I must acknowledge my very great indebtedness to Miss Julia Bell , M.A. , for much aid in the laborious calculations , of which only the final results are tabled in this paper ; to Mr. E. Cunningham for a suggestion as to the best form in which to put the integral required in the case of the oblate spheroid universe ; and to Mr. C. H. Williams for mechanically .
integrating and tabling both oblate and prolate spheroid integrals .
The Liberation of Helium from Minerals by the Action of Heat .
By D. Okson Wood , B.Sc. , A.R.C.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof , the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. Received April 12 , \#151 ; Read April 28 , 1910 .
) Introductory .
It is well known that the helium contained in radio-active minerals can be liberated by the action of heat , but , hitherto , no exact quantitative experiments have been made on the subject , and it was thought desirable to conduct such experiments with a view:\#151 ; ( 1 ) To ascertain whether heat may not be used as a substitute for chemical methods in the case of minerals and rocks for which those methods are not convenient , * and , if so , the temperatures necessary .
( 2 ) To throw , if possible , more light on the way in which the gas is retained within the mineral .
A number of experiments have been made by Traversf on cleveite and * Chemical methods break down ( a ) when the helium-content is very small , so that large quantities have to be treated to liberate a measurable volume of gas ; ( b ) when no simple reaction is available , or when such a reaction gives rise to large volumes of other gases .
Iron sulphide , which occurs in many geological horizons , is an example of this .
t Travers , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 64 , p. 140 .
The minerals were heated to redness in a hard glass tube , and , therefore , to a temperature not exceeding 600 ' C. 1910 .
] Helium from Minerals the Action of Heat .
71 other minerals , which showed that about half the whole helium-content was given up at a red heat , and this estimate was used by Prof. Strutt* in his earlier work on the helium-content of various minerals .
Por those experiments it was not worth while to go more deeply into the matter , the more so as chemical methods suitable for many substances were at hand .
The state in which helium exists in rocks in which it has accumulated must in every case be essentially the same , and therefore it will be permissible to apply the general conclusions deduced from experiments on materials " whose helium-content may be obtained chemically , to minerals for which those methods are inconvenient or impossible .
However , experiments have been made on two very dissimilar substances , namely , monazite , which contains a comparatively small proportion of helium , and thorianite , a mineral crystallising in cubes , and containing a relatively large amount thereof .
In spite of this difference , the results obtained from the two substances are in complete agreement .
The method of the experiments was to heat the mineral in vacuo to a known temperature , and to measure the volume of gas liberated at known times from the commencement of the experiment .
Each temperature was maintained till the gas released during the course of one day was too small for measurement .
Apparatus .
This consists of two parts , that concerned with the heating of the mineral , and that concerned with the gas evolved .
The essentials of both are shown , but not to scale , in fig. 1 .
A. The heater H consisted of a single layer of nickel wire wound over a fused silica tube S about 18 inches long , and covered with several layers of asbestos cloth .
The winding was arranged , as far as possible , to give a uniform temperature along the whole length of the tube .
Fairly thick wire ( gauge 21 ) was necessary to stand the prolonged heating required\#151 ; the temperature rising to 1000 ' and 1200 ' C. , and lasting several weeks without cessation .
In Experiments I and II the temperatures were measured with a high range mercury thermometer ; in III and IY , with a platinum resistance thermometer and a Whipple indicator kindly lent by Prof. Callendar .
Prolonged heating at 1000 ' C. , however , was found to have a deleterious effect on the glaze of the porcelain tube , and a platinum platinum-rhodium thermocouple was made up and used in conjunction with a Cambridge thermocouple indicator .
The couple was calibrated by comparison with the platinum thermometer .
In the earlier experiments the mineral was heated in ordinary glass tubing , * Strutt , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 80 , p. 572 .
72 .
Mr. D. O. Wood .
The Liberation of [ Apr. 12 , but it was soon found that only a small proportion of the helium was liberated at temperatures below the softening point of the glass and there fore , Jena glass tubes were used , the part M passing into the furnace , but not To Pump filled with the mineral , being packed with sand to prevent the collapse of the walls , and plugged with glass wool to stop any sand particles being carried over by the gas .
Temperatures up to 750 ' C. were thus practicable , but were not sufficient to release all the gas contained in the mineral .
For higher 1910 .
] Helium from Minerals by the Action of Heat .
73 temperatures quartz tubes were used , in spite of the possible leakage of helium* through them .
Air-tight connection between the quartz and glass tubing was made by rubber pressure tubing tightly wired and completely covered with Chatterton cement ( J ) .
The furnace was closed by a piece of asbestos card , which served also to shield the cement joint and the cold junction of the thermocouple from heat radiation .
In the ordinary course the temperature variation was not greater than 20 ' .
On two occasions , when the cells supplying the current failed , the equivalent time of heating was calculated by interpolation from the quantity of gas evolved .
B. The gas was purified on its way to the measuring gauge by passing over caustic potash and phosphorus pentoxide contained in the tubes K and L respectively .
This removed all the moisture and the greater part of the carbon dioxide ; a final purification being effected by means of the sodium potassium electrodes 1ST , 1ST .
The purity of the helium was determined by spectroscopic examination of the glow in the capillary tube P. The volume of gas liberated was measured in a modified form of the McLeod gauge , described by Prof. Strutt in his paper previously mentioned .
It consists essentially of a tube A graduated into equal lengths and calibrated , connected with a bulb Bi whose volume is large compared with the rest of the apparatus .
A glass reservoir filled with mercury is connected by rubber pressure tubing to the end of the tube B , and when this is lowered the mercury runs out of Bi , drawing in gas from the rest of the apparatus through the tap Tx .
A few seconds being allowed for complete diffusion Ti is closed , and the reservoir raised , thus compressing the gas into A where its volume is measured .
The bulb B2 being vacuous the difference in level of the mercury in A and E gives the pressure and therefore , the volume at standard pressure may be calculated .
The volume so found requires to be multiplied by the ratio of the total volume of the apparatus to which gas has access to the total volume of the bulb Bi in order to correct for the volume of gas not drawn into it .
This ratio is found from the volume of gas pumped out from the respective parts by the Toepler pump used .
When more gas has collected than is convenient for measurement in A , its volume is found , it is pumped out , and a fresh start is made , the new volumes being added to that removed .
Any air bubbles .
that enter through P collect under the tap T2 , and are from time to time allowed to escape through it .
* Jacquerod and Perrot , 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1904 , vol. 2 , p. 20 .
The rate of leak must be proportional to difference of pressure of helium on either side , which in experiments such as these is very small .
The existence of a leak is shown , however , in the thorianite curve of fig. 3 , at 1000 ' C. Mr. D. O. Wood .
Liberation of [ Apr. 12 , The tap T3 is connected to another set of purifying tubes through which gas can be admitted from the outside for measurement in the gauge .
Experiments and Results .
Monazite.\#151 ; The mineral was ground in an iron mortar and sifted to a fairly uniform size\#151 ; that of a coarse angular sand .
The total helium-content being estimated at 1/ 10 c.c. per gramme , about 5 grammes were used as giving a convenient volume of gas for measurement in the gauge .
Experiments I and II , which were of a preliminary character , showed that while at temperatures up to 500 ' C. there was a practical limit to the volume of gas given off , that volume was only a small fraction of the total content .
In Experiment III the temperature was increased by a succession of stages , and it was intended to maintain each until the practical limit to the volume of gas liberated was attained ; but for temperatures about 600 ' C. the time became so prolonged that it was necessary to increase the temperature without reaching the limit .
In this experiment the mineral was heated to 720 ' C. only , but in Experiment IY , with a quartz tube , the temperature was taken at once to 900 ' , and then to 1200 ' C. Unfortunately , at the higher temperature the apparatus began to leak , and the volume liberated had to be calculated from a chemical determination of the volume of the residual gas .
The initial volume was found by heating the ground mineral with sulphuric acid , in a closed tube exhausted of air , * to 120 ' C. for three weeks .
The gas so liberated was introduced into apparatus through T3 and treated in the usual way .
The only visible change in the mineral was that the colour , originally brown , became slaty blue .
Thorianite.\#151 ; The helium-content being approximately 9 c.c. per gramme , one-fifth of a gramme of the mineral was used , perfect crystals only being taken .
But one experiment was necessary , as it was possible to reach the practical limit at each temperature .
At the conclusion , six of the crystals used were splintered into laminae and two remained unchanged .
The results are shown in the curves ( figs. 2 , 3 ) , and in the table which gives the percentage of the whole content extracted at each temperature .
It will be seen that in every case after a rise in temperature there is an initial rush of gas followed by a slower emission ; but there seem to be three distinct stages .
At the lower temperatures the first rush brings nearly all the gas that will ever come at the temperature , and the practical limit is quickly reached .
At temperatures somewhat higher the first rush is followed by a prolonged and fairly rapid liberation of gas .
In this stage the greater part of the gas is evolved .
Finally , at the highest temperatures employed , the * Travers , ' Study of Gases , ' p. 34 .
1910 .
] Helium from Minerals by the Action of Heat .
remainder of the gas is evolved almost at once .
If heat is to be used as a practical method of liberating helium from minerals , it is necessary that a temperature corresponding to this third stage should be reached .
The curves , however , are of little use for indicating the way in which the gas is retained ISO HOURS - .
Fig. 3 .
r 20* - 1000*/ A so ' ' 6 J$i r/ ^/ ooo* 2 4 .
/ I 550* 900* |45 oL/ Jsoo* 0 k \#151 ; 1750 ' L ?
( A r* n K.e If !
AC 7C tO HOURS BOi 76 Mr. D. O. Wood .
Liberation of [ Apr. 12 , Experi- ment No. Mineral .
Temp. Time for which , temperature vras maintained .
State at that time .
Volume of helium* evolved .
Maximum volume* per gramme obtainable .
Percentage of total content .
'c .
hi Monazite 280 Maximum reached in 12 hrs .
0-021 0 -0039 0-7 ( 5*35 grammes ) 350 Maximum reached in 12 hrs .
0-065 0-012 2 -1 450 After 170 hrs .
gas still 0-400 0-071 12 -7 evolved very slowly .
550 After 250 hrs .
no sign of 1 -oo \#151 ; \#151 ; limit .
650 After 160 hrs .
still evolving 1 -91 \#151 ; \#151 ; at 1 cub. mm. per hour .
720 After 100 hrs .
still evolving , 2-05 0-3S4 68 -6 but limit probable in 50 hrs .
IY Monazite 900 In 90 brs .
practical limit 1-30 0-496 88-5 ( 2*62 grammes ) reached .
1200 After 4 hrs .
only 0*008 cc./ gr. \#151 ; 0-55f 98 -3 left in mineral .
Y Thorianite 300 Practical limit in 5 hrs 0 -0135 0-068 of ( 0*199 grammes 500 Practical limit in 80 hrs .
... 0 165 0-819 8-5 8 cubes ) 750 Practical limit in 320 hrs .
... 1-3 6-00 62'-3 1000 All gas liberated in 30 hrs ... .
1-92 9-65 100-0 * These volumes are measured at 17 ' C. and 30 inches of mercury , f Total content 0*56 c.c. per gramme .
within the mineral , as on any hypothesis it is to be expected that , when a fresh temperature is taken up , the rate at which equilibrium is attained will be greater initially than when the final conditions are more nearly reached .
The curves in fig. 4 show the percentage of the whole helium-content liberated at each temperature , neglecting the very slow " leakage " that takes place when the temperature has been maintained for some time .
That these curves should be somewhat complex is to be expected when it is considered that the escape of the gas must be governed by several independent circumstances .
When a helium atom is expelled from the atom of the radio-active substance it is brought to rest by collisions with neighbouring atoms , and the result , after the process has been in operation for a long time , would be a homogeneous mixture\#151 ; in fact , a solution of the gas in the solid ; but if the mineral contains cavities or pores , there will be an accumulation of helium atoms therein .
The point to be settled is , has any such concentration occurred ?
If so , to what extent ?
Experiments by Gray* on the liberation of helium from thorianite by grinding make it probable that at least 80 per cent , of the gas in that mineral is contained in exceedingly minute cavities .
Consider the effect of an increase of temperature ; it will result : in an * Gray , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ A , vol. 82 , 1909 , p. 306 .
1910 .
] Helium from Minerals by the Action of Heat .
increased rate of diffusion of gas through the mineral , and probably a rapid escape from the surface layers ; ( b ) in an increase of the pressure of the gas in the cavities , which will tend to the formation of cracks in the mineral just where they can best aid the escape of the gas ; and finally , ( c ) , owing to unequal expansions , minute cracks will develop in the crystal which may result in its ultimate disintegration .
A note may be here inserted on the pressures that must exist within a thorianite crystal .
The density of thorianite is approximately 8*5 grammes per cubic centimetre , and as the helium-content is 9 c.c. per gramme , the volume concentration of the gas is considerable ; hut if\#151 ; for the sake of illustration\#151 ; it be supposed that only 30 per cent , of the whole is retained in cavities , and that those cavities occupy as much as one-tenth of the whole volume , then the pressures therein may be as great as 225 atmospheres , and this at 0 ' C. When the temperature is raised , this pressure must have a considerable effect in the development of cracks within the mineral .
* Now , consider the curves of fig. 4 .
Up to temperatures between 300 ' and * To illustrate this it may be mentioned that when a thorianite crystal is heated to bright redness in a blow-pipe flame a shower of small fragments is thrown oil ' , and the crystal may ultimately explode .
78 Liberation of Helium from Minerals by the Action of Heat .
400 ' C. the total quantity of gas practically obtainable is very small , and increases but gradually .
It seems fair to assume that this may be due to simple diffusion of helium through the surface layers of the mineral .
Above these temperatures the slope of the curves entirely change , and the quantity of gas obtainable becomes much greater .
This is in agreement with the development of cracks within the mineral under the united influence of unequal expansion and of pressure , which is now more than twice its initial value .
Finally , at much higher temperatures the slope again decreases , as would be expected in any case , owing to the great diminution in the quantity of gas present .
Thus it has been shown ( 1 ) that heat may be used to determine the total volume of helium contained in radio-active minerals if a sufficiently high temperature be reached ; and ( 2 ) that the laws governing the liberation of gas with temperature are at least in agreement with the supposition that a small proportion of the gas exists diffused through the mineral , and that the remainder is concentrated in very minute cavities within it .
In conclusion , I have to express my gratitude to Prof. Strutt for his encouragement and help throughout the course of these experiments . .

