December 8 , 1853 .
COLONEL EDWARD SABINE R.A. .
V.P. &amp; Treas .
, in the Chair .
'Te Chairman stated to the Meetingthat the -President had appointed the following gentlemen Vice-Presidents : Colonel Edward Sabine Thomas Bell , Esq. ; Thomas raham , Esq. ; Sir Frederick Pollock , M.A. ; the Rev. Baden Powell , M.A.i ; Charles Wheatstoine ; Esq. A paper was read , entitled " Ons some of the Products of the Decomposition of Nitrotoluylic Acid .
" By Henry M. Noad , Ph. D. , Lecturer on Chemistry at -St .
George 's Hospital .
Communicated by A. Hoffmann , Ph. D. , :F.R.S .
Received Nov. 17 , 1853 .
The author refers to a formeer memoir in which he described the mode of preparation and properties of two ' new organic acids , the analogues 'of , lenizoic .
and nitrobenzoic acids in the toluyl or immediately succeeding series , and to which the names of toluylie ( C 1 Hi 044 ) and nitrotoluylic ( C1 H7 ( NO4 ) 04 ) acids were consequently given .
In the present.paper he resumes the study of the action of nritic acid on cymol ( Co20HiJ ) and describes first some unsuccessful attempts to procure from that oil the substitution compound C N4 } , from which , by the action of reducing agents , he had hoped to procure a new organic base homologous with aniline .
toluidine , &amp;c. He then investigates the products of the decomnpoi sition of his new nitrogen acid .
He describes the preparation and properties of nitrotoluylamide C6 04 NH2 , and having succeeded , though by a rather tedious process , in obtaining this substance in some quantity , he studies the action of reducing agents on it .
By the action of hydrosulphate of ammonia upon an aqueotus solution of the amide , a crystalline substance was procured , which analysis proved to be homologous with the carbamite-carbaniiFde of Hofmann , and wiith the anilo-urea of Chancel .
The study of its properties showed that it must be considered ' as the analogue of the latter , that it is the true urea of the toluyl series , being a tWeldefined organic base , forming a series of crystalline salts , of which the nitrate and oxalatei were qualitatively examined .
A synoptical view of these ureas is given , showing their relation with the urea type .
B:y the action of a boiling solution of caustic potash on toluylurea ( C 13 3 ( C14 H7 ) N2 O0 ) , a new acid was procured , the analysis of which showed that it has three homblogues in the benzoyl series viz. anthranilic acid , benzamic acid , and carbanilic acid , all of which are represented by the formula C14 1H7 NO4 , the compositioi of the new acid being expressed by the ' frmula ( C16 Hg , NO4 ) The limited quantity of this acid at the authbr 's disposal and the greatdifficul wit which itwasprocured , did not enable him todecide positively with which of the above acids it corresponds , though " itg mode of formation would render it probable that it is the true analogue of carbanilic acid .
The determination of this question is of some interest , inasmuch as should it prove to correspond to anthiranilic acid , a road might through it be.opened for the introduction of a series of new substances at present entirely wanting , namely , the proper homologues of salicylic acid and its derivatives .
The author proposes to return to this subject , and he gives , in conclusion , a syn .
optical view of those corresponding members of the benzoyland:tolyl groups which in the present and former paper he has established .

