XVI .
Some Observaton on Mr. Brande 's PaPer on CacZri.n By Everard Home , Esq. F. R. S. Read May 19 , 18o8 .
TAT calculi in the human bladder are not dissolved by the internal use of alkaline medicines , is an opinion which I have long entertained , but the grounds of failure so clearly pointed out by Mr. W. BRAND , were not known to me- : -I only rkew from experience , that , to whatever extent the medicines are given , no such effect takes place .
The circumstance of the exterior lamine of calculi extracted from patients , who had persevered in a course of alkaline preparations , having been found softer than the parts towards the centre , has always been considered as a proof of the action of the medicines upon the calculus , and led to the belief , that where the stone was small , it might be wholly dissolved .
This , however , Mr. W. BRAND has now proved to be a deception , and that the soft part is not a portion of the original calculus , but a newly formed substance , in which the uric acid is not deposited in crystals , but mechanically mixed with the phosphates , and the animal mucus in the urine .
Having met with cases , which confirm Mr. W. BRANDE'S observations , it will be satisfactory to state them , as they may assist in doing away many erroneous notions generally entertamied on this subject .
The opinion , that calculi in the human bladder have been entirely dissolved , has received its principal support from instances having occurred , and those by no means few in numberw , 'heire'th esyptvoms wt enti:r:ely awaywhiie thepaties were using alkaline medicines , and never afterwards returned .
This evidence appears to be very strong , but it will be found from the following cases that it is not so in reality .
Since the fallacy has been detected in all the instances in which an opportunity -as afforded= of examinining the bladderaft death .
Two of these I shall particularly notice , because they , were published during the patients ' life time in proofof the , stone having been dissolved .
B0oth patients were great sufferers from ; the syptohmse oft stonefr .
many years ; but when they arrived at the ageof sixty-eight , or thereabout , the symptoms entirely left them .
The:one had been taking the saline draught in a state of effeir vescence , under the direction of the late Dr. HULMME : the cure was attributed to this medicine and the case was published in proof of its efficacy .
When the patient died I examined the bladder , and found twenty calculi ; the largest of the size of a hazel nut , the others smaller .
It appeared that the going off of the symptoms had arisen from the pos , terior lobe of the prostate gland having become enlarged ( a change which it frequently undergoes about that period of life , ) and having formed a barrier between the calculi and the -orifice of the bladder , so that they no longer irritated that part either in the act of making water , or in the different movements of the body , but lay in the lower posterior part of the bladder without producing any disturbance .
Their number prevented the pressure from being great upon any one part of the intestine immediately behind the bladder , and their motion on one another rendered their external surface smooth , and probably prevented their rapid increase..Ihe other patient was under a course of PERRY 's lixivium ; and when the symptoms went away , he published the case in proof of the efficacy of that medicine in dissolving the stone .
I examined the bladder after death , and found fourteen calculi ; the largest of the size of a nutmeg , the others smaller .
There was the same enlargement of the posterior lobe of the prostate gland , and the calculi were exactly under the same circumstances as in the former case .
In several cases , in which I have examined the body after death , calculi have been found enclosed in cysts , formed between the fasciculi of the muscular coat of the bladder , so as to be entirely excluded from the general cavity , and therefore had not produced any of the common symptoms of stone .
I have seen in the same bladder , two , three , and even four such cysts , each containing a calculus of the size of a walnut .
It is a circumstance deserving notice , that in the case , which gave celebrity to Mrs. STEVENS'S medicine , and procured her a remuneration from Parliament , the bladder was not examined after death .
That calculi in the bladder do sometimes increase , while the patient is using alkaline medicines , is fully proved by the following examples , which also show that the uric acid and phosphates are formed in different proportions , according to the peculiarities of the constitution A gentleman who suffered from .
symptoms of stone was sounded and a stone was found in his bladder .
I put him on a course of alkaline medicines , and he voided a small compact calculus , composed of uric acid , and evidently formed in the kidney .
He was desired to persist in the use of the medicines , which he did at intervals fo ur or five years , suffering occasionally in a slig'ht degree , but he did not pass any more calculi .
He died at the ae of seventy-five .
On exatnining the bladder , its whole cavity , ( the capacity of which was equal to a pint measure ) las completely filled with soft , light , spongy calculi , three hindrel and fifty in number , and of different sizes , from that of a walnut to a small pea .
They were composed of a mixture of uric acid in powder , the phosphates , and animal mucus ; and differed so much from the calculus voided soon after the patient began the use of alkalies , that they appear to have been formed after that period in the manner mentioned by Mr. W. BRAND .
A gentleman , who was found to have a stone in his bladder , was persuaded that it was so small that it might be dissolved , and with this view he took the fossil alkali , both in its caustic and mild state , for about three months ; but at the end of that period the symptoms were increased , and he submitted to have it extracted by an operation .
On examinining the calculus after it was extracted , the external part , for the thickness of of an inch , was entirely composed of triple phosphate , in a state of perfect speculated Crystals , so as to present a very rough irritating surface to the internal membrane of the bladder , while the inner parts of the calculus were made up of a mixture of uric acid and phosphates , so that the alkali had prevented the formation 247 Soaw , c. of uric acid , bum the phosphates were deposited more rapidly than before .
A !
gentlemar , iini , whwe urine the .
uric acid ap ars : in.a solid.form , immediatelyafter it-is voided , , , hs the samel appearance in the urine , even when nine drachms of soda dissolved in water , impregnated with carbonic acid , are taken in twenty-four hours ; so that in this instance the alkali does not even counteract the formation of uric acid .

