Description of a Percussion Shell , to be fired horizontally from a common Gun .
By Lieutenant Colonel Miller , late of the Rifle Brigade , and now unattached .
Communicated by R. I. Murchison , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 16 and 23 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 1 .
] In this paper , the author first considers the theory of rifles , with which the subject of it is intimately connected ; and regarding it as an admitted principle , that irregularities in the flight of shot arise from irregularities either in their surface or substance , shows how the rotatory motion of a rifle ball , by presenting every part uniformly to the action of the resisting medium , obviates the effect of these irregularities , The spiral or rotatory motion of the ball in rifles , is generally supposed to arise wholly from the re-action of the grooves in the barrel , or from the indentations made by them in the surface of the ball ; but the author , taking into consideration the powerful action of the air on projectiles , is led to conclude that the rotation of a grooved ball may be sustained during its flight , or even produced originally by the resistance of the air acting on the inclined ' planes formed by the grooves , on the same principle as the rotation , of the sails of a windmill .
These considerations led the author to conceive the possibility of giving the spiral motion to grooved shotfired from a plain barrel ; an idea which , he remarks , seems to have also occurred to Mr. Robins , who left , however , no clue to enable us to discover the nature of his plan .
He accordingly commenced a series of experiments for the purpose , and , abandoning all idea of ' success with spherical shot , adopted the cylindrical form .
His first trials were made in the summer of 1821 .
Hemispherical ends were adapted to cylindrical shot , but abandoned , it being found desirable so to dispose the weight as to give the greatest possible length to the shot ; grooves of various dimensions were tried , and were found not to answer when narrow , but required to be wide enough to allow their sides to be exposed , from one end to the other , to a current of air blowing straight between them .
In 1822 , some further experiments were made at Woolwich , with grooved leaden shot fired from musket barrels , and with wooden shot from a 5-i-inch howitzer , in which the shot , being received on targets , or in banks of earth , were in numerous instances found to have flown in the manner expected , .
i. e. point foremost .
Similar trials with grooved leaden bullets from a plain barrel , were made in 1823 , to the extent of several hundreds ; and the balls , when well made , were always found to fly end foremost .
Large wooden grooved shot were also fired from a 24-pounder , at Kinsale Fort , and on some occasions by night with lighted fusees in their sides , by which contrivance it was distinctly seen that the spiral motion was acquired and maintained steadily throughout their flight .
Having thus proved the possibility of communicating the spiral motion to a grooved shot from a plain barrel , it next occurred to the author , that a shell so constructed , and flying always with one end foremost , might be made to explode by percussion .
This he accomplished by forming his shell into a cylinder terminated by a conical apex , in which is formed a vent communicating with the cavity of the shell .
This vent is plugged with an iron peg , under which is placed a pellet of percussion powder , and which , on the point of the cone striking a hard substance , is driven in and ignites the percussion powder , which immediately communicates with the bursting charge .
Several shells of this .
construction were fired against Kinsale Fort from a 24-pounder , and exploded on striking it ; and the author goes on to describe a great variety of trials with iron shells of different sizes , and fired under different circumstances , both at Kinsale Castle and Leith Fort , .
in all of which a considerable amount of success was obtained , and in some cases the explosions of the shells took place on striking at 800 , 850 , and even 1200 yards .
Further experiments were tried at Woolwich in 1826 , on the hull of a 28-gun ship , during three successive days .
Out of thirty-one shells fired at her , at various ranges from 330 to 450 yards , eleven exploded on striking ; one of which took effect on the ' mainmast and set it on lire , and the rest did more than usual execution in the hull of the vessel .
Others were fired against a bank and target at 800 yards , and when dug out were found , in several instances , point foremost .
The author concludes this paper with some observations on the theory of such shells , and with remarks on their proper shape and proportions , and the practical purposes to which they may be applicable .

