The following papers were also read:1 .
" On the Change of Refrangibility of Light .
" By George G. Stokes , Esq. , M.A. , S.F..S .
, Lucasian Professor of Mathematics , Cambridge .
Received May 11 , 1852 .
The author was led into the researches detailed in this paper by considering : a very singular , phenomenaon Which Si.r John Herschel had discovered in the case of a weak solution of sulphate of quinine , and various other salts of the same alkaloid .
This fluid.appears colourless and transparent , like water , hen viewed by transmitted light , but.exhibitsin certain aspects a peculiar blue colour .
: Sir John Herschel found that when the fluid iwas illuminated by a beam of ordinary daylight , the blue light was produced only throughout a Very thin stratum of fluid adjacent to the surface by which the light entered .
It w as unpolarizeed It passed freely through manyinches of the fluid .
The incident beam , after having passed through the stratum from , which the blue light came , was not sensibly enfeebled nor coloured ; but yet it had ' lost the power of producing the usual blue colour when admitted into a solution of sulphate of quinine .
A beam of light modified in this mysterious manner was called by Sir John Herschel epipolized .
Several years before Sir David Brewster had discovered in the case of an alcoholic solution of the green colouring matter of leaves a very remarkable phenomenon , which he has designated as internal dispersion .
On admitting into this fluid a beam of sunlight condensed by a lens , he was surprised by finding the path of the rays within the fluid marked by a bright light of a blood-red colour , strangely contrasting with the beautiful green of the fluid itself when seen in moderate thickness .
Sir David afterwards observed the same phenomenon in various vegetable solutions and essential oils , and in some solids .
He conceived it to be due to coloured particles held in suspension .
But there was one , circumstance attending the phenomenon which seemed very difficult of explanation on such a supposition , namely , that the whole or a great part of the dispersed beam was unpolarized , whereas a beam reflected from suspended particles might , be expected to be polarized by reflexion .
And such was , in fact , the case with those beams which were plainly due to nothing but particles held in suspension .
From the general identity of the circumstances attending the two phenomena , -Sir David Brewster was led to conclude that epipolic was merely a particular case of internal dispersion , peculiar only in this respect , that the rays capable of dispersion were dispersed with unusual rapidity .
But what rays they were which were capable of affecting a solution of sulphate of quinine , why the active rays were so quickly used up , while the dispersed rays which they produced passed freely through the fluid , why the transmitted light when subjected to prismatic analysis showed no deficiencies in those regions to which , with respect to refrangibility , the dispersed rays chiefly,.belonged , were questions to which the answers appeared to be involved in as much mystery as ever .
After having repeated some of the experiments of Sir David Brewster and Sir John Herschel , the author could not fail to take a most lively interest in the phenomenon .
The firm conviction which he felt that two portions of light were not distinguishable as to their nature otherwise than by refrangibility and state of polarization , left him but few hypotheses to choose between , respecting the explanation of the phenomenon .
In fact , having regarded it at first as an axiom that dispersed light of any particular refrangibility could only have arisen from light of the : same refrangibility contained in the incident-beam , he was led by necessity to adopt hypotheses of so artificial a character as to render them wholly improbable .
He was thus compelled to adopt the other alternative , namely , to suppose that in the process of internal dispersion the refrangibility of light had been changed .
Startling as such a supposition might appear at first sight , the ease with which it accounted for the whole phenomenon was such as already to produce a strong probability of its truth .
Accordingly the author determined to put this hypothe-sis to the test of experiment .
The experiments soon placed the fact of a change of refrangibility beyond all doubt .
It would exceed the limits of an abstract like the present to describe the various experiments .
It will be sufficient to mention some of the more remarkable results .
A pure spectrum from sunlight having been formed in air in the usual manner , a glass vessel containing a weak solution of sulphate of quinine was placed in it .
The rays belonging to the greater part of the visible spectrum passed freely through the fluid , just as if it had been wter , being merely reflected here and there from motes .
But from a point about half-way between the fixed lines G and H to far beyond the extreme violet the incident rays gave rise to light of a sky-blue colour , which emanated in all directions from the portion of the fluid which was under the influence of the incident rays .
The anterior surface of the blue space coincided of course with the inner surface of the vessel in which the fluid was contained .
The posterior surface marked the distance to which the incident rays were able to penetrate Leifore they were absorbed .
This distance was at first considerable , greater than the diamrieter of the vessel , but it decreased with great rapidity as the refrangibility of the incident rays increased , so that from a little beyond the extreme violet to the end the blue space was reduced to an excessively thin stratum adjacent to the surface by which the incident , rays entered , It appears therefore that this fluid , which is so transparent with respect to nearly the whole of the visible rays , is of an inky blackness with respect to the invisible rays more refrangible than the extreme Violet .
, The fixed lines belonging to the violet:and the invisible region beyond were beautifully represented by dark planes interrupting the blue space .
When the eye was properly placed , these planes were of course projected into lines .
The author has made -a sketch of these fixed lines , which accompanies the paper .
They may be readily identified with the fixed lines represented in M. Becquerel 's map of the fixed lines of the chemical spectrum .
The last line seen in a solution of sulphate of quinine appears to be the line next beyond the last represented in M. Becquerel 's map .
Under very favourable circumstances two dusky bands were seen still further on .
Several circumstances led the author to conclude that in all probability fixed lines might be readily seen corresponding to still more refrangible rays , were it not for the opacity of glass with respect to those rays of very high refrangibility .
It is very easy to prove experimentally that the blue dispersed light corresponding to any particular part of the incident spectrum is not homogeneous light , having a refrangibility equal to that of the incident rays , and rendered visible in:consequence of its complete isolation ; but that it is in fact heterogeneous light , consisting of rays extending over a wide range of refrangibility , and not passing beyond the limits of refrangibility of the spectrum visible under ordinary circumstances .
To show this it is sufficient to isolate apart of the incident spectrum , and view the narrow beam-of dispersed light which it produces through a prism held to the eye .
In Sir David Brewster 's mode of observation , the beam of light , which was of the same nature as the blue light exhibited by a solution of sulphate of quinine , was necessarily mixed with the beam due merely to reflexion from suspended particles ; and in the case of vegetable solutions , a beam of the latter kind almost always exists , to a greater or less degree .
But in the method of observation employed by the author , to which he was led by the discovery of the change of refrangibility , the two beams are exhibited quite distinct from one another .
The author proposes to call the two kinds of internal dispersion just mentioned true internal dispersion and false internal dispersion , the latter being nothing more than the scattering of light which is produced by suspended particles , and having , as is -now perfectly plain , nothing to do with the remarkable phenomenon aof true internal dispersion .
Now that the nature of the latter phenomenon is better knpwn , it is of course possible to employ methods of observation by which it may be detected even when only feebly exhibited .
It provesto be almost universal in vegetable solutions , that ' is , in solutions made directly from various parts of vegetables .
When vegetable products are obtained in a state of isolation , their solutions sometimes exhibit the phenomenon and sometimes do not , or at least exhibit it so feebly that it is impossible to say whether what they do show may not be due to some impurity .
Among fluids which exhibit the phenomenon in a h'high degree , or according to the ' author 's expression are highly sensitive , may be mentioned a weak decoction of the bark of the horse-chestnut , an alcoholic extract from the seeds of the Datura stramonium , weak tincture 'of turmeric , and a decoction of madder in a solution of alum .
In 'these cases the general character of the dispersion resembles that exhibited by a solution of sulphate of quinine , but the tint of the dispersed light , and the part of the spectrum at which the dispersion begins , are different in different cases .
In the last fluid , for example , the dispersion commences somewhere about the fixed lineD , and continues from thence onwards far beyond the extreme:violet .
The 'dispersed light is yellow , or yellowish orange .
In the case of other fluids , however , some of them sensitive in a very high degree , the mode in which light is dispersed internally presents some very remarkable peculiarities .
One of the most singular examples occurs ` in the case of an alcoholic solution of the green colouring matter of leaves .
This fluid disperses a rich red light .
The dispersion commences abruptly about .
the fixed line B , and continues from thence onwards throughout the visible spectrum and a little beyond. .
The dispersion is subject to fluctuations intimately connected with the singular absorption bands exhibited by this medium .
In order that a medium should be capable of changing the refrangibility of light incident upon it , it is not necessary that the medium should be a fluid , or a clear solid .
; 'Washed papers and other opake substances produce the same effect , but of course the mode of observation must be changed .
The author has observed the ch-ange of refrangibility in various ways .
It will be sufficient to mention here that which was found'most generally useful , ' which he calls the 'method of observing by a linear spectrum .
The method is as follows .
A series of prisms and a lens are arranged in the usual manner for forming a pure spectrum , but the slit by which the light enters , instead of being parallel , is placed in a direction perpendicular to the edges of the prisms .
A linear spectrum is thus formed at the focus of the lens , consisting of an infinite succession of images ' of the slit arranged one after the other in the 'order of refrangibility , and of course overlapping each other to a ' certain extent .
The substance to be examined is placed in the linear spectrum , and the ' line of light seen upon it is viewed through a prism held to the eye .
' In this way it is found that almost all common organic substances , such as wood , cork , paper , calico , bone , ivory , horn , wool , quills , feathers , leather , the skin of the hand , the nails , are sensitive in a greater or less degree .
Organic substatices ywhich are dark-coloured are fref9 quently found to be insensible , but , on the other hand , scarlet cloth and various other dyed articles are highly sensitive .
By means of a. linear spectrum the peculiar dispersion of a red light produced by chlorophyll , or some of its modifications , may be observed not only in a solution , but in a green leaf , or on a washed paper , or in a seaweed .
The highly sensitive papers obtained by washing paper with tincture of turmeric , or a solution of sulphate of quinine , or some other highly sensitive medium , display their sensibility in a remarkable manner when they are examined in a linear spectrum .
In these cases , however , the paper produces a very striking effect when merely held so as to receive a pure spectrum formed in the usual manner , that is , with a slit parallel to the edges of the prisms .
Such a paper may be used as a screen for showing the fixed lines belonging to the invisible rays , though they are not thus shown quite so well as by using a solution .
The extraordinary prolongation of the spec .
trum seen when it is received on turmneric paper , has been already observed by Sir John IHerschel , by whom it was attributed to a peculiarity in the reflecting power of .
that substance .
Of course it now appears that the true explanation is very different .
A high degree of sensibility appears to be rather rare among inorganic compounds .
Certain specimens of fluor spar , as is already known , give a copious internal dispersion of a deep blue light ; but this is plainly due to some foreign ingredient , the nature of which is at present unknown .
But there is one class of inorganic compounds which are very remarkable for their sensibility , namely , certailn compounds of peroxide of uranium , including the ornamental glass called canary glass , and the natural mineral yellow uranite .
In these compounds the , dispersed light isfound on analysis to consist of bright bands arranged at regular intervals .
A very remarkable system of absorption bands is also found among these compounds , which is plainly connected with the system of bright bands seen in the spectrum of the dispersed light .
The connection between the .
absorption and internal dispersion exhibited by these compounds is very singular , and is of a totally different nature from the connection which has been already mentioned as occurring in solutions of the green colouring matter of leaves .
There is one law relating to the change of refrangibility which appears to be quite universal , namely , that the refrangibility of light is always lowered by internal dispe ion .
The incident rays.:being homogeneous , the dispersed light is found to be more or less composite .
Its colour depends , simply on its refrangibility , having no relation to the .
colour of the incident light , or to the circumstance that the incident rays were vsisible or invisible .
The dispersed light appears to emanate in all .
directions , as if the solid or fluid were self-luminous while under the influence of the incident rays .
The phenomenon .
of the change of refrangibility of ; light admits of several important applications .
In the first place it enables us to determine instantaneously the transparency or opacity.of a solid or fluid with respect to the invisible rays more refrangible than the violet , and that , not only for these rays as a whole , but for the rays of each refrangibility in particular .
3For this purpose it is sufficient to form a pure spectrum with sun-light as usual , employing instead of a screen a vessel containing a decoction of the bark of the horsechestnut , or a slab of canary glass , or some other highly sensitive medium , and then to interpose the medium to be examined , which , if fluid , would have to be contained in a vessel with parallel sides of glass .
Glass itself ceases to be transparent about the region corresponding to the end of the author 's map , and to carry on these experiments with respect to invisible rays of still higher refrangibility would require the substitution of quartz for glass .
The reflecting power of a surface with respect to the invisible rays may be examined in a similar manner .
The effect produced on sensitive media leads to interesting information respecting the nature of various flames .
Thus , for example , it appears that the feeble flame of alcohol is extremely brilliant with regard to invisible rays of very high refrangibility .
The flame of hydrogen appears to abound in invisible rays of still higher refrangibility .
By means of the phenomena relating to the change of refrangibility , the independent existence of one or more sensitive substances may frequently be observed in a mixture of various compounds .
In this way the phenomenon seems likely to prove of value in the separation of organic compounds .
The phenomena sometimes also afford curious evidence of chemical combinations ; but this subject cannot here be further dwelt upon .
The appearance which the rays from an electric spark produce in a solution of sulphate of quinine , shows that the spark is very rich in invisible rays of excessively high refrangibility , such as would plainly put them far beyond the limits of the maps which have hitherto been made of the fixed lines in the chemical part of the solar spectrum .
These rays are stopped by glass , but transmitted through quartz .
These circumstances render it probable that the phosphorogenic rays of an electric spark are nothing more than rays of the same nature as those of light , but which are invisible , and not only so , but of excessively high refrangibility .
If so , they ought to be stopped by a very small quantity of a substance known to absorb those rays with great energy .
Accordingly the author found that while the rays from an electric spark , which excite the phosphorescence of Canton 's phosphorus , pass freely through water and quartz , they are stopped on adding to the water an excessively small quantity of sulphate of quinine .
At the end of the paper the author explains what he 'conceives to be the cause of the change of refrangibility , and enters into some speculations to account for the law according to which the refrangibility of light is always lowered in the process of internal dispersion .

