I. " Optics of Photography.-On a Self-acting Focus-Equalizer , or the means of producing the Differential Movement of the two Lenses of a Photographic Optical Combination , which is capable , during the exposure , of bringing consecutively all the Planes of a Solid Figure into Focus , without altering the size of the various images superposed .
" By A. CLAUDET , F.R.S. Received April 8 , 1867 .
When a solid figure is brought too near the object-glass of a camera obscura , the difference of focus for its various planes is comparatively so great , that it is impossible that all the images should be equally well defined .
Hence , in the case of photographic portraiture , there is a want of harmony in the representation of the various parts ; some are too sharply delineated , and some others are confused in proportion as they are more and more distant from the plane in focus .
But there is another defect which is the consequence of the difference of distance of the various planes bearing too great a proportion to the distance of the whole , which is that the nearest parts of the figure are too much enlarged , and the furthest too much reduced .
In a paper I read at the British Association at Nottingham in 1866 , I proposed a plan to obviate these defects , which consisted in bringing all the planes consecutively into focus , by moving , during the exposure , the tube of the lens or the back frame of the camera ; the consequence of which was , of course , that the planes were also during that movement brought out of focus ; so that a sharp image of every plane was impressed upon a confused image ; but they were all in the same degree in that mixed state , and the result was an equality of effect producing harmony in the whole , and that kind of softness in the picture so much approved by artists , as resembling , more than the sharpest photographs , the effect that they aim at producing .
The original simple idea of equalizing the focus of the various planes by moving either the frame holding the plate , or the tube of the lens , during the exposure had , it appears , occurred to several persons engaged in photographic pursuits ( of which I was not aware before reading my paper ) ; but it is certain that the plan had never been practically and generally adopted , and that , at all events , no specimens of the process had at any time been exhibited in public , probably because it presented several difficulties which could not be easily overcome .
The greatest of these difficulties I soon found during my investigations , which was that , in changing the focal distances merely by moving the frame or the tube , the size of the various superposed images was unavoidably reduced or increased according to the alteration of focus during the movement applied .
Therefore I turned my attention to the means which might be found capable of avoiding this defect , and a fortunate idea presented itself , by which I found that it was possible to preserve the size of the various images during the adaptation of the focus to the different planes of the figure .
The desideratum was , when changing the focus , to increase the power of the double lens for the planes the most distant and to reduce it for the nearest planes .
At first this seemed to be an impossibility .
But in considering the subject attentively , I was suddenly struck with the fact that the power of any double combination of .
lenses being proportionate to the distance which separates the two lenses greater when they are more separated , and smaller when they are less separated , it was possible to alter the power of the combination by changing the distance between the two lenses .
Therefore , if , instead of moving the whole tube containing the two lenses , we move only the back lens nearer the plate , when we want to focus for more distant planes , we increase at the same time the power of the double combination , and consequently the size of the image ; and if we move the lens further from the plate , when we want to focus for the nearest planes , in doing so , by reducing the separation of the two lenses , we reduce the power of the combination , and consequently also the size of the image .
This is a most fortunate property ; for by this means it is possible not only to equalise the definition of the various planes , but at the same time to equalise the size of their images , and consequently to avoid the exaggeration of perspective by which the nearest planes are increased , and the furthest disproportionately reduced , a defect which is so detrimental to the apS pearance of large photographs .
I submitted my plan to M. Voigtlander , the celebrated optician , and I had the satisfaction to meet with his entire approbation .
He found that I had solved the problem in a way which was perfectly correct and sufficient in practice .
But wishing to investigate the question from a higher mathematical point of view , and being unable from indisposition to go himself into the subject , he charged his step son , Dr. Sommer Professor of Mathematics at the Garolinian College of Brunswick , well versed in all the 2Q questions of optical photography , to calculate the result of the gradual increase and reduction of the power of the double combination , in conjunction with the alteration of focus .
Dr. Sommer entered thoroughly into the subject , and soon sent me a series of elaborate formulae , showing that , although for all practical purposes in photography the movement of one of the two lenses , as I had proposed , fulfilled the object I had in view , still he found that a more scientific consideration of the subject called for a modification in my plan ; which was that , instead of moving only one of the lenses , the same degree of their separation should be imparted by moving the two lenses in contrary directions from the fixed centre of the combination , and in different proportions , according to the distance of the object .
These differential proportions were indicated in a table calculated by Dr. Sommer which he sent me .
This presented another difficult and unexpected problem , the solution of which was indeed most perplexing .
But I did not like that it should be said that my plan was not completely in accordance with the mathematical laws of optics ; and I set to work at finding a mechanical means by which I could avail myself of the scientific calculations of Dr. Sommer .
I have found such means ; and it turns out indeed that by my mechanical construction the differential movement can be effected , not only as readily and easily , but with a greater command and steadiness than by moving only one lens .
The following is a description of the arrangement : Description of the Focus-Equalizer .
The tube , containing at each end the lenses A and B , is divided into two parts , sliding in the principal tube SSSS fixed in the front of the camera at V V ' .
Each tube has a strong pin , L and L ' .
These two pins are intended to push the tubes to and fro from the centre of the combination on the line P P ' by means of the mechanical piece N N'N " in the shape of a sextant , having two slits , MM and M ' M ' , cut at an angle of 36 ? .
Now the sextant , being mounted on a sliding bar q q ' , fixed in a socket holding to the tube SS SS at P P ' , can be made to move to and fro on the line P P ' by means of a rack and pillion moved by a handle V on the axis R. While the sextant moves in the line P P ' , the two slits will act on the two pins , and gradually increase the separation of the tubes ; and on making the sextant move back from P ' to P , the slits will bring the two pins nearer each other , and decrease the separation of the tubes .
It will thus be easily understood how we can increase and reduce the separation of the two lenses from the centre of the combination ; but we have now to explain how we can produce the differential movement according to the mathematical formulae calculated by Dr. Sommer .
The arc of the sextant is divided into 100 parts , in two rows one against the other .
The divisions on the outer limb have their zero on the left , and the 100 division on the right ; on the inside limb the divisions are in a contrary direction .
By means of the endless screw X acting on the toothed edge of the sextant , it can be moved on its horizontal axis , so that any of its divisions may be brought under the index fixed on the middle bar q q ' .
Now , supposing that by the table of Dr. Sommer the lens A for a certain distance of the object should move 0'235 , and the lens B 01765 of the whole space by which the lenses require to be separated or approximated , we turn the endless screw until the index is on the 231 division of the inside scale , and of course on the 76 ?
division of the outside scale .
In that position of the sextant the slits MM and M ' M ' , by means of the pins attached to the tubes of the lens A and of the lens B , will make them accordingly move-A in the proportion of 0*235 , and B in the proportion of 0*765 of the whole space .
If for another distance the lens A should have to move 0'333 , and the lens B 0*666 , setting both limbs of the sextant to these divisions , the lens A will move 5 , and the lens B3 of the whole space .
If we wanted to move the two lenses in the same proportion , the sextant should be set so that the 50th division of both scales should be under the index .
And , finally , if , for the sake of comparative experiments , it were wanted to move only the lens A or the lens B , the slit of the pin for either and the zero of the scale should be placed under the index , by which that lens would be completely stationary , and the whole motion imparted to the other .
459

