1883 .
] On Protoplasm through the Walls of Vegetable Cells .
163 H " Pelvic Characters of Tliylacoleo carnifexP By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. , Director of the Natural History Department , British Museum .
Received April 13 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author selects from a series of fossils transmitted from Australia since the communication of the 1st February , 1883 , the pelvis of a mature Thylacoleo , and gives results of a comparison .of it with that of Macropus major , Felis Leo , and Dasyurus ursinus , incidentally referring to pelvic characters of the Wombat , the Koala , ; and the Phalangers .
The results are that the few correspondences with the Kangaroos relate exclusively to a common marsupial nature ; to these , in the Dasyurines , are added other resemblances not found , save in Carnivorous Marsupials ; and , finally , prominent characters are shown in which Thylacoleo exclusively repeats those presented by the pelvis of Felis Leo .
III .
" On the Continuity of the Protoplasm through the Walls of Vegetable Cells .
" By Walter Gardiner , B.A. , late Scholar of Clare College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton-Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received April 16 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) After quoting a passage from Professor Sachs ' " Vorlesungen fiber Pflanzen-Physiologie , " " every plant however highly organised is fundamentally a protoplasmic body forming a connected whole , which , as it grows on , is externally clothed by a cell membrane and internally traversed by innumerable transverse and longitudinal walls , ' the author suggests that any observations which demonstrate an actual continuity in organs of large extent must be of interest , as tending to show the truth of Sachs ' statement in a sense somewhat more literal than his own .
At the time that the above remarks were written , the instances of the existence of any protoplasmic continuity between adjacent cells were but few , being limited to sieve tubes and to Tangl 's results with regard to the endosperm cells of Strychnos , Phoenix , and Areca .
Then came the author 's investigations upon the pulvini of Mimosa , Robinia , and Amicia , and subsequently to them , but previous to the present communication , appeared an important paper by Russow , in which he had proved that in the bast parenchyma cells and the phloem ray cells of numerous plants , e.g. , Populus , 164 Mr. W. Gardiner .
On Continuity of the [ Apr. 26 , I Salix , \amp ; c. , the closing membranes of the pits were perforated by fine protoplasmic threads .
In the present paper the author details his results upon pulvini , treats of the methods employed , and gives an account of his investigations ' as to the structure of endosperm cells which were undertaken with the object of controlling his previous researches .
Since experiments showed that all preservative reagents were unsatisfactory , fresh material alone was employed .
In investigating the subject of protoplasmic continuity the method of swelling the cell-wall and subsequent staining was adopted .
Either sulphuric acid or chlor .
zinc .
iod .
was used as the swelling agent ; and , after washing , the sections were stained with Hoffmann 's violet\#151 ; in which case they were subsequently washed out with glycerine\#151 ; or with Hoffmann 's blue .
The latter dye was found to be a particularly satisfactory reagent for staining the protoplasm alone , while methylene blue , on the other hand , especially stains the cell-wall .
After the action of chlor .
zinc .
iod .
and subsequent staining it was still found to be impossible to colour the protoplasmic threads running through the cell-wall , and since the author 's experiments had led him to believe that this was merely due to phenomena of diffusion ( the solution of the colloidal dyes diffusing but little into the colloidal protoplasm ) , he adopted the modification of dissolving the solid Hoffmann 's blue in a 50 per cent , solution of alcohol saturated with picric acid , which was found to be perfectly successful as a stain .
Having shown that in its reactions the pit membrane differs markedly from the rest of the cell-wall , the author proceeds to give a detailed account of his results with pulvini .
In Mimosa , Robinia , and Amicia , the parenchymatous cells of the pulvini were found to communicate with one another by means of delicate protoplasmic threads which perforated the closing membranes of the pits .
In many instances it appeared as if the thread went bodily through the pits , but the author was disposed to believe that in reality a sieve-plate arrangement was present in every case .
The protoplasm of the bast fibres also appear to communicate through the pit membrane by means of a sieve-plate-like structure .
Thus from the epidermal cells right up to the last living bast fibre , which impinges on the first dead vessel , a direct continuity from cell to cell has been established , and such a pulvinus may be regarded as a connected whole .
The author has observed that a means of communication between adjacent cells appears to exist in the pulvini of Phaseolus multiflorus , and Desmodium gyrans ; in the cells of the leaf of Dionsea muscipula ; in the stamens of Cynara Scolymus , and in tendrils ; but in consequence of somewhat hurried observation , owing to the lateness of the season , he cannot regard these results as entirely conclusive , and intends to work over the subject in further detail on a future occasion .
\#187 ; In order to clear up certain doubtful points with regard to his work 1883 .
] Protoplasm through the Walls of Vegetable Cells .
165 L rmlvini , and to set his investigtions on the firmest possible basis , X anther now commenced the study of endosperm cells , since m them the cells were exceptionally large , and the pit membrane being Zy thick , the presence of any threads running through its substance !
Zuld be likely to be clearly seen .
Having confirmed Tangl s results !
with Strvchnos , Phoenix , and Areca , he examined in detail the seeds lof some fifty species of palms , and besides those of typical represens'tatives of the following orders -Leguminose\#174 ; , Rubiace\#174 ; , Myrsmeae , Loeanicese , Hydrophyllaeeae , Iridace\#174 ; , Amaryllidaceae , Dioscoriace\#174 ; , MeLnthace\#174 ; , Liliace\#174 ; , Smilac\#174 ; , and Phytelephasie\#174 ; \#151 ; in all of which be found that the cells were placed in communication with one another by means of delicate threads passing through the walls of the cells .
In unpitted cells , e.g. , Tamus and Dioseorea , the threads traversed the whole thickness of the wall .
In the greater number of instances the cells were pitted , and the threads passed across the pit membrane ; and in certain cases , e.g. , Bentinckia , Kentia , Howea , Lodoicea , and Asperula , communication was established both through the thickened walls and through the pits .
The endosperm cells displayed in their structure every possible modification , both of thickness or thinness of the pit membrane , of clearness or difficulty of observation , and of degree of development of the middle lamella .
The development of the endosperm was not worked out in any case , but the cells were shown to communicate with one another at a very early period .
When sections of living endosperm tissue were treated with sulphuric acid , and stained with Hoffmann 's blue , the same results were obtained as with pulvini , only here everything was on a much larger scale .
Thus both the methods and results received every confirmation .
The author then treats of his investigations on the subject of Plasmolysis , in which he had established that when the plasmolytic condition is induced in a cell the contracted primordial utricle does not lie free in the cell-cavity , but is connected on every side to the cell-wall by means of numerous fine protoplasmic threads .
His experiments lead him to the conclusion that the above phenomena do not give any definite assistance or confirmation to the study of perforation of the cell-wall , for as often as not the threads bear no relation to the pit , the only significance implied being that the protoplasm and the cell-wall are intimately connected the one with the other .
Finally , the author remarks that , although he is aware of the \#166 ; danger of rushing to conclusions , yet that when his results , which were foreshadowed by Sachs and Hanstein when they demonstrated the perforation of the sieve-plate , are taken in connexion with those \#166 ; of Russow , it appears extremely probable that the communication between adjacent cells not only takes place in the parenchymatous cells of pulvini , in the phloem parenchyma cells , in the cells of 166 Sir W. Siemens .
* [ Apr. 26* .
endosperms , and in the prosenchymatous bast fibres , but is of much wider if not of universal occurrence .
At any rate we were now in a position to get a clearer insight into such phenomena as the downward movement of a sensitive leaf upon stimulation , of the wonderful action of a germinating embryo on the endosperm cells , even on those which are most remote from it , of the action of a tendril towards its support , and of a series of phenomena in connexion with general cell mechanism , which were too numerous to mention , and could not be treated of in his present paper .
The paper is accompanied by forty figures , which illustrate the principal instances of protoplasmic continuity referred to in the text .
IV .
" On the Dependence of Radiation on Temperature .
" By Sir William Siemens , F.R.S. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Received April 25 , 1883 .
Sir Isaac Newton held that the radiation of heat from a hot body , increased in arithmetical ratio with the difference of temperature-between it and the surrounding bodies .
This law forms a rough approximation to the truth over a very limited range of temperature .
MM .
Dulong and Petit carried out an elaborate experimental research on the rate of cooling of hot bodies by radiation , extending to somewhat higher temperatures , and deduced from their observations the empirical formula\#151 ; Rate of cooling =w ?
( l*0077)'(l*0077j-*-l ) .
Here T is the temperature of the hot body in degrees Centigrade , t the temperature of the surrounding1 matter , and m is a constant depending on the nature of the radiating body .
This formula agrees very fairly with experimental results for ordinary temperatures , butr like Newton 's law , it has been shown that it cannot be applied for a wider range .
The anomalous results which Newton 's law and the formula of MM .
Dulong and Petit lead to , when applied to the cooling of bodies at a very high temperature , are well illustrated by the-attempts at deducing therefrom the temperature of the solar photosphere .
Waterston and Pere Secchi ( in his work entitled " Le Soleil " )r following Newton 's hypothesis , obtained 10,000,000 ' C. as the probable solar temperature , and Captain J. Ericsson , on the same hypothesis but assuming other constants , arrived at a temperature between 2,000,000 ' and 4,000,000 ' C. Strangely contrasting with these determinations are those of Pouillet in 1836 , and Vicaire in 1872r

