188 Prof. Dewar .
On Formation of [ June 19 , If we imagine some reaction\#151 ; such , for example , as the combination of colouring matter with a tissue\#151 ; influenced in one set of experiments by nickelous sulphate , and in an altogether different set by an equal weight of cobaltous sulphate , we can hardly conceive any ground for the development of a reciprocal function , such as we have experimentally traced .
On the other hand , it seems reasonable to suppose that , when two bodies are simultaneously confronted with a single reagent , they both contend for its effect .
Thus a chemical antagonism may arise between them by virtue merely of their being together ; and thence the reciprocal function .
So far as we are aware , the only other chemical function of the kind , hitherto investigated , is to be found in Chizynski's* examination of the partial precipitation , by ammonic phosphate , of mixed calcic and magnesic chlorides .
That chemist arrived at the conclusion , for which we consider his evidence to be adequate , that " equal masses of calcic and magnesic chlorides have always equal , but oppositely active , coefficients of affinity .
" X. " On the Formation of Hydrocyanic Acid in the Electric Arc. " By James Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry to the Royal Institution .
Received June 5 , 1879 .
A series of experiments favouring the conclusion that the so-called carhon lines are invariably associated with the formation of acetylene f induced me to make some experiments to ascertain whether this substance can be extracted from the electric arc , which invariably shows this peculiar spectrum at the positive pole , when it is powerful and occasionally intermittent .
For this purpose the carbons were used in the form of tubes , so that a current of air could be drawn by means of an aspirator through either pole , and the products thus extracted from the arc , collected in water , alkalies , and other absorbents .
Gases may be led through one of the poles , and suction induced through the other , in order to examine their effect on the arc .
The following experiments record the results obtained by means of the Siemens and de Meriten 's magneto-machines .
Experiment 1 .
Drew a current of air by an aspirator through the .
^egative carbon , and passed the gases through potash , and iodide of potassium , and starch paste ; found no nitrites ; potash contained sulphides . .
Experiment 2 -Hydrogen led in by the positire pole and the gases ex rao e as a ove , gave the well-known acetylene compound with Ann. Ch. Pharm. , , Supp. iv , 226\#151 ; 253 .
t As suggested by Pliicker , Angstrom , and Thalen .
j Hydrocyanic Acid in the Electric Arc. 189 ammoniacal sub-chloride of copper ; while , at the same time , a wash-bottle containing water gave distinct evidences of the presence of hydrocyanic acid ' .
figment 3.\#151 ; Hydrogen flame burning alone gave no sulphides or hydrocyanic acid , the condensed water in a small bulb gave nitrites .
Experiment4 .
Air drawn through the negative carbon gave considerable quantities of hydrocyanic acid , which was greatly increased by extracting the gases through the positive carbon .
Air was aspirated at the rate of about one litre per minute .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; The same carbons used with de Meriten 's magneto-machine gave no result .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; Carbons purified in chlorine and hydrogen gave .
with de MAriten 's nothing ; with Siemens ' and a draught of air through the negative pole , a small quantity of hydrocyanic acid , but a larger yield when the positive was used .
The gases extracted after the absorption of the hydrocyanic acid contained acetylene .
If the carbons are not purified , sulphuretted hydrogen is always found along with other gases .
The inference to be drawn from the above experiments is that the high temperature of the positive pole is required to produce the reaction , which is in all probability the result of acetylene reacting with free nitrogen , as when induction sparks are passed through the mixed gases , viz.y.C2H2 + N2=2HCN , and that the hydrogen is obtained from the decomposition of aqueous yapour , and the combined hydrogen in the carbons .
It is possible that traces of alkaline salts in the carbon poles may favour the formation \#174 ; f hyirocyanic acid , but , as all attempts to purify the poles so as to stop the reaction failed , I am inclined to believe it is a direct synthesis .
Ill acetylene reaction is one of the many remarkable syntheses discovered by Prof. Berthelot of Paris .
The presence of sulphuretted hydrogen is doubtless due to the reduction of the sulphates , invariably present in the ash of the carbon .
A more complete examinaiion of the various reactions to be brought about by means of the Siemens arc , and with poles of varied composition and m presence of different gases , will be communicated to the bociety m a subsequent paper .
My thanks are especially due to Messrs. Ansdell and Cottrell assistants m the Royal Institution , for their valuable aid .
*

