" Illustrations of the Viscous Theory of Glaciers .
" By James David Forbes , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Part III .
The author inquires , in this part of his paper , into the motion of those comparatively small isolated glacial masses , reposing in the cavities of high mountains or on cols , and called by De Saussure glaciers of the second order .
A glacier of this description in the neighbourhood of the Hospice du Simplon , lodged in a niche on the northern face of the Schaenhorn , immediately behind the Hospice , and at an elevation of about 8000 feet above the sea , was selected for observation .
The average velocity of its descent was found to be about one inch and a half in twenty-four hours : those parts in which the slope was 20 ?
moving with a velocity about one-third greater than those in which the slope was 10 ? .
The author next enters into general views on the annual motion of glaciers , and on the influence of seasons ; and gives tabular details of the observations made with reference to these questions at two stations ; the one on the Glacier des Bossons , and the other at the Glacier des Bois , which is the outlet of the Mer de Glace towards the valley..of Chamouni .
In both these glaciers , the motion in summer exceeds that in winter in a greater proportion as the station is lower , and consequently exposed to more violent alternations of heat and cold .
He also found that the variations of velocity due to season are greatest where the variations in the temperature of the air are greatest , as in the lower yalleys ; excepting that variations of temperature below the freezing-point produce scarcely any appreciable change in the rate of motion of the ice .
He concludes with some general illustrations of the plastic or viscous theory of glacier motion .
A glacier , he contends , is not a mass of fragments or parallelopipedons ; neither is it a rigidly solid body ; and although it may be extensively intersected by crevices , these " crevasses " are comparatively superficial , and do not disturb the general continuity of the mass in which they occur .
The water contained in these crevices is only the principal vehicle of the force which acts upon it : and the irresistible energy with which the whole icy mass descends from hour to hour with a slow but continuous motion bespeaks of itself ' the operation of a fluid pressure acting on a ductile or plastic material .

