412 Meeting of June 16 , 1898 .
June 16 , 1898 .
SIR JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , Treasurer and Vice-Presidifc in the Chair .
Mr. H. F. Baker , Mr. S. F. Harmer , Mr. Arthur Lister , Lie .-General C. A. McMahon , the Hon. Charles A. Parsons , ProfessoiPi Preston , Professor E. Waymouth Reid , Dr. Alexander Scott , Mr A C. Seward , Mr. W. A. Shenstone , Mr. H. M. Taylor , and Mr. Jai3\#187 ; Wimsburst were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; " Observations on Stomata .
" By Francis Darwin , F.R.S. II .
" Note on the Attenuation and Exaltation of the Virulencef the Organism of Texas Fever .
" By A. Edington , MS .
Communicated by Professor T. R. Fraser , F.R.S. III .
Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of EvolutiiV .
On the Reconstruction of the Stature of Prehistoc Races .
" By Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. some Expressions for the Radial and Axial Componeis of the Magnetic Force in the Interior of Solenoids !
Circular Cross-section .
" By C. Coleridge Far .
Comn-nicated by Professor H. Lamb , F.R.S. V. " On the Source of the Rontgen Rays in Focus Tubes .
" Iff A. A. C. Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R. VI .
" On the Companions of Argon .
" By Professor Ramsay , F.R.1 , and Morris W. Travers .
VII .
" Contributions to our Knowledge of the Fucaceae , their Lif history and Cytology."* By Professor J. B. Farmer ai J. LI .
Williams .
Communicated by Dr. D. H. Scot F.R.S. ^111* u On the Detection and Localisation of Phosphorus in Anim and Vegetable Tissues .
" By Professor A. B. Macallui Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. * This is the full paper of which the communication entitled/ * On Fertilisation and the Segmentation of the Spore , in Fucks , " read June 18 , 1896 , and published in the * Proceedings , ' vol. 60 , p. 188 , is to be regarded as the * Abstract .
' Observations on Stomata .
IX .
" Summary of the principal Results obtained in a Study of the Development of the Tuatara ( By Professor A. Dendy .
Communicated by Professor Howes , F.R.S. X. " Tables for the Solution of the Equation die dx~x dx , \amp ; 1 + ~2 By W. Steadman Aldis , M.A. Communicated by J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. XI .
" The Stomodmum , Mesenterial Filaments , and Endoderm of Xenia .
" By J. H. Ashworth , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor Hickson , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , ovember 17th , 1898 .
" Observations on Stomata .
" By Francis Darwin , F.R.S. Received May 31 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The method described depends on the fact that in adult leaves inspiration is stomatal rather than cuticular , so that , other things eing equal , the yield of watery vapour depends on the degree to Inch the stomata are open , and may be used as an index of their ondition .
In principle , it is the same as the methods of Merget* * * S and tahl.f These observers used hygroscopic papers impregnated with sagents which change colour according as they are dry or damp , and tahl , who employed paper soated in cobalt chloride , has obtained xcellent results .
In my laboratory I have used , for some years , a rgroscope for demonstrating stomatal transpiration , in which evapo-ation is indicated by the untwisting of the awn of ay present instrument is of the same general type , but the index is aade of " Chinese leaf , " i.e. , shavings of pressed and heated horn .
S If a trip of horn is placed on a dry substance , e.g. , the astomatal surface of leaf , it does not move , but on the stomatal surface , it instantly curves trongly away from the transpiring surface .
In the hygroscope the * ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1878 .
t ' Bot. Zeitung , ' 1894 .
% Darwin and Acton , ' Practical Physiology of Plants , ' 1st edition , 1894 .
S I also use the epidermis of a Yucca\#151 ; a material which I owe to the kindness f Mr. Thiselton-Dyer .
2 i 2

