On a Method of expressing by Signs the Action of Machinery .
By Charles Babbage , .
Esq. F.R.S. Communicated January 17 , 1826 .
Read March 16 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 250 .
] In the construction of an engine for calculating and printing mathematical tables , in which the author of this paper has been for some time occupied , he states himself to have met with considerable difficulty from the want of any method by which all those motions which take place in any machine at the same instant , may be easily perceived and referred to , and by which the movement of any part might readily be traced back , through all the intervening stages , ulp to the first mover of the machine .
The usual modes of mechanical drawing he found quite insufficient for these purposes , except in machinery of the simplest construction ; and , even if they had not altogether failed in more complicated cases , the time and expense required for their execution would have effectually prevented their employment .
The most important question was to contrive some method by which all the simultaneous movements , occurring at any moment , should be at once visible ; and the history of the state of motion or rest of any given part should be apparent during the whole cycle of the action of the engine .
The author had therefore recourse to a system of signs , which bear an analogy to those employed in algebra , whilst they differ from them by having a general resemblance to the things they are intended to represent .
Having gradually found that this system , which he calls " mechanical notation , " was readily susceptible of affording other information than that for which it was ' at first contrived , he 'was led to give to it additional extension .
In its present form it gives , almost at a glance of the eye , information relative to any of the following points .
The names of every part of any engine being written at the top of the paper : 1 .
Its representations in all the drawings will be pointed out .
2 .
The number of teeth in any wheel , pinion , or sector will be seen .
3 .
The actual angular velocity will also appear .
4 .
The mean angular velocity will also appear .
5 .
The origin of the motion of each part will be seen , and thus the cause of its motion will be traced up to the first mover .
6 .
At each transfer of movement , the method by which it was accomplished will become apparent ; whether by wheel and pinion , by a stud , by stiff friction , or by any other method .
7 .
All the adjustments which are necessary in order to set the machine in action will be pointed out , and the order in which they ought to be made will be indicated .
8 .
The whole course of action of every part will be visible in every stage of the progress of the machine .
If it is a wheel , the time and direction of its motions will appear , and also the times at which it rests ; if the part is a bolt or click , the times at which it is bolted or locked , and those during which it is in the reverse state , will be seen .
These particulars will be discovered by casting the eye down the vertical line belonging to each part , which was named at the top of the drawing .
9 .
In passing the eye along any of the horizontal lines , dividing the cycle of the engine movements , every cotemporaneous motion , as well as its direction , at that precise time becomes visible ; as also the position of those parts which are at rest .
The author then proceeds to state , that he found much time to be saved in the construction of his calculating engine by employing this mechanical notation ; and he has , by way of example , in this paper described its application to the hydraulic ram , and to the common eight-day clock , of both of which he has given the drawings and notation .

