465 1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
oxen .
The first person who kindly called our attention to those of the ox was the late Professor Pannum , of Copenhagen , who in 1874 presented us with some specimens he had found in the gall-bladder of a Danish ox .
In so far as naked eye appearances are concerned , a good specimen of the variety of pearl now spoken of is quite undistinguishable from a fine specimen of oriental oyster pearl , from its not only being globular in shape , and of a pure white colour , but from its also possessing the iridescent sheen so characteristic of oriental oyster pearls of fine quality .
In chemical composition , however , mammalian pearls bear no similarity whatever to pearls found in shell-fish , for they are composed of an organic instead of an inorganic material , namely cholesterin .
In minute structure again , they bear a marked resemblance to the crystalline variety of shell-fish pearls .
The quantitative analysis of human pearls yielded in 100 parts\#151 ; Water ... ... ... ... ... ... 2*05 Solids ... ... ... ... ... .
97-95 The solids consisted of\#151 ; Cholesterin ... ... ... ... 98*63 Animal matter ... ... ... ... 1*37 From this it is seen that human pearls are in reality nothing more nor less than exceedingly pure cholesterin biliary concretions .
This note on the chemical composition of pearls is intended as a prelude to a paper we purpose shortly laying before the Society on the microscopic structure of the different varieties of pearls we had the honour of exhibiting sections of with the lime-light , as well as microscopic drawings , at the soiree , on the 8th June , 1887 , and of which a detailed report was given in the 17th No. of the ' Cheltenham Ladies ' College Magazine , ' pp. 37\#151 ; 42 , by J. F. Muspratt .
IV .
" On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
" By W. K. PARKER , F.R.S. Beceived March 8 , 1888 .
A few years ago I noticed a remarkable fact in the development of the Green Turtle ( Chelone viridis ) , namely , that whilst thirteen myotomes are developed in the cervical region , the intercalary vertebral segments found afterwards are only More recently , whilst working out the development of the vertebrae in various types of Birds , it struck me that we have in these high forms creatures in which the vertebral chain has been greatly * See " Challenger " Reports , Zoology , vol. 5 , Plate 1 , fig. 3 , pp. 48 .
and 50 .
Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , shortened daring their secular development .
It seems to me to he probable that the Amphibian stock from which birds arose\#151 ; becoming Reptiles in their ascent , but spurning that intermediate stage\#151 ; were long , eel-like forms , not dissimilar to Amphiuma and among the existing Urodeles .
I will therefore state what evidence there is of evolutional abbreviation in the development of the species in existing Birds .
Working with Poster and Balfour 's 'Elements of Embryology ' beside me , I was struck with one part of their description , and with my own preparations showing the phenomenon .
At page 157 we read as follows : \#151 ; " The notochord [ in the Chick ] is on the sixth day at the maximum of its development , the changes which it henceforward undergoes being of a retrograde character .
" Prom the seventh day onward it is at various points encroached upon by its investment .
Constrictions are thus produced , which first make their appearance in the intervertebral portions of the sacral region .
In the cervical region , according to Gegenbaur , the intervertebral portions are not constricted till the ninth day , though as early as the seventh day constrictions are visible in the vertebral portions of the lower cervical vertebrae .
By the ninth and tenth days , however , all the intervertebral portions have become distinctly constricted , and at the same time in such vertebral portions there have also appeared two constrictions , giving rise to a central and to two terminal enlargements .
In the space therefore corresponding to each vertebra and its appropriate intervertebral portion , there are in all four constrictions and their enlargements .
" I had long ago noticed , figured , and described a similar monili-form condition in the cephalic portion of the notochord in the Chick , * and this observation set me speculating upon the dying out of the axial segmentation in the region of the skull .
Row this peculiar secondary and temporary segmentation of the notochord is not equal throughout the whole chain of rudimentary vertebrae ; I can only find ttvo beads in the sacral region , and none in the caudal .
Nevertheless , taking these beadings as a true historical record of development , and allowing for them in such a bird as the Common Swan ( Gy gnusolor ) , we get , hypothetically , a very long ancestral form .
In that bird there are thirty presacral , twenty-one sacral , and thirteen caudal vertebrae that are developed as distinct vertebral segments of the axis .
Then , if we treble the presacrals and double the sacrals , we add eighty-one to the actual sixty-four of the modem bird , and thus obtain more than twelve dozen\#151 ; 145\#151 ; vertebrae with which to accredit the ancestral form .
# ' Phil. Trans 1869 , Platt 81 , figs. 2 and 7 , and Plate 82 , fig. 3 , p. 771 .
1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of .
On the Number of Vertebrae in Existing Birds .
The Swan , one of the noblest of the Precocial birds , comes the nearest of any of the Carinatse to the huge , almost wingless Struthions types in the large number of its vertebrae ; indeed in the cervical region it has more vertebrae than any bird I have yet examined , namely , twenty-five , and its general sacral region is as long as in the large Ratitse , so that this bird , although so exquisitely specialised as a flying , swimming , sailing , and walking bird , has not departed very far from the Struthious birds in respect of the length of the spine .
More than this , in my recent researches into the development of this and.cognate birds , I find that the Swan has been built upon the Struthious foundation\#151 ; so to speak .
In the parts that suspend themselves from the twenty-one sacral vertebras , the hip-girdle moieties , it is most clearly seen that the difference in these parts between this bird and the African Ostrich ( Struthiis altogether one of gentle transformation by a late growth of cartilage .
Arrest the pelvis of the embryo Swan , when only two-thirds ripe , and in the ossification afterwards unite the pubes by ankylosis , and then the two pelves would correspond , point by point .
So that this part of the skeleton passes in the most orderly manner , first through a general Reptilian , then through an Ornithoscelidan , and then through a Struthious stage , before it takes on the characteristic form of the Swan , the pelvis of which is one of the largest and most remarkable in the class , and quite typical , nevertheless , as the pelvis of a Carinate bird .
Returning to the Vertebral Chain , I may now show how , for adaptive purposes , that series of axial segments gets shorter and shorter as we ascend towards the smallest and highest of the " Altrices , " the highest kind of birds , with tender young , and , as a rule , arboreal nidification .
Even within the limits of the Anatidse , the family to which the Swan belongs , the cervical and sacral series get reduced to about three-fourths the number found in the Common Swan .
Indeed , in the genus Gy gnus , itself , I find a variation , for in C. nigricollis there are only twenty-four cervical vertebrae .
But among the larger Precocial birds the number varies extremely , and in passing from species to species , in the Cranes ( Gruidae ) , I find no two alike in this respect .
Once , however , amongst the noblest and most intelligent of all the birds , the Passerines , and we come upon a uniformity that is as remarkable as the variety seen in the wading , and land , and water birds .
The Crows stand at the top of the Passerines , and being the largest kind , they have the longest vertebral chain .
In the old* Rook or Carrion Crow and 0 .
coronef , * The fledgling is more generalised , and has twelve vertebrae united by the diapophyses in the sacral series .
Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , the vertebral series is twenty in the presacral region , or only two-thirds as many as in the Common Swan , eleven in the sacral region , or half as many as are enclosed by the ilia in the Swan , whose first caudal corresponds with the last sacral of many birds .
Instead of sixty-four , I can only find forty-two vertebrae developed in a Crow , twenty pre-sacrals , eleven sacrals , and eleven caudals .
How taking a familiar bird , the Common Chat ) , I find that it has only nineteen presacrals , eleven sacrals , and originally eleven caudals , but only seven distinct in the adult .
How we get in the cervical region in this little bird , fourteen vertebras , one less than in the Crow , little more than half as many as in the Swan , ' and just twice as many as in the normal Mammal .
I take up the next that comes , the Yellow Wagtail ( rayi ) , and it has the same number as the Chat ; and , indeed , in only one species of Passerine bird , namely , Petroica bicolor* from Western Australia , are there only sixteen free vertebrae in front of the compound sacrum .
As a rule , however , in the lesser birds of this Order the number is marvellously uniform , and agrees with what I have given above .
But the lesser species of Passerines amount in number to nearly one-third of the known species in the whole Class of the Carinatae .
If it could be shown that the lesser singing birds had come up directly from the low ancestral forms , they yet suggest a rather long spine for that ancestor .
It might have possessed ninety vertebrae .
But I have by me most satisfactory proofs that the highest singing birds came through a series of forms that are traceable towards the Struthious birds , until , at last , I have no doubt of their merging into them .
The Passerines from the Hotogaea , both east and west , have among them various genera that come short of the excellence of the general Arctogaeal types .
This is seen in the structure of their skulls , and in their vocal organs , and in the lower grade of their intelligence , whilst in the " Pteroptochidae , " the sternum itself\#151 ; a sort of anchor to the classifier , which is very safe and sure in all the Passerines except in two or three genera\#151 ; gives way at last , and in those birds has five metasternal processes instead of three .
In the smallest of all birds\#151 ; the Humming-birds\#151 ; the actual number of vertebrae varies very little from what is found in the lesser Passerines , but they are generally disposed of in a different manner ; they may have as many as four pairs of developed ribs in the fore part of the sacrum , as in the largest kind ( [ Pagigas ) ; in lesser forms , as Heliustrypha parzudakii , Diplogenia hesperus , and also in the long* See Owen , ' Osteol .
Catal. Mus. Coll. Surg .
, ' yol .
1 , p. 299 , No. 1584 .
1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
billed Dodmastes ensifer*I find only three .
In the lesser Passerines , as a rale , only one pair of sacral ribs are developed .
On the Articulation of the Vertebras in Birds .
Special modification of the vertebral chain takes place to a greater extent in birds than in any other of the Vertebrata .
Even in the intensely modified vertebra of Serpents , with their and zygantrum , we still have merely the " procoelous " articulation of the centra .
But in birds , as soon as the short-tailed forms appear , we have as in Marsh 's gigantic PLesperornis , or feeble-winged Colymbine Grebe with pleurodont teeth\#151 ; the highest known form of the vertebral articulation , namely , the " cylindroidal " or " heteroccelous .
" This most accurate mode of locking the vertebral segments together , in which the centra viewed from below seem to be procoelous , but seen endwise or laterally are opisthoccelous , is peculiar , as far as I know , to birds , and apparently was not always , or from the beginning , present in them .
This seems to be shown by the fact that the other of Marsh 's toothed birds , namely , Ichthyornis , has for the most part " amphi-ccelous " vertebrae , only one or two joints at the upper part of the neck showing the cylindroidal articulation , and that imperfectly .
Now this is a most puzzling fact in Palaeontology , for Ichthyornis is a Carinate bird , and as far as I can see , is the parent form of the Gulls ( Laridae ) , although it possesses thecodont teeth in its long jaws .
Everyone knows that the Loons and Grebes ( , , and Podiceps ) are " Pygopods , " and rather of a low type , but the Gulls are amongst the noblest and most intelligent of the Palmipeds , and are semi-altricialin their breeding .
Now it is a fact that modern Grebes and Loons disagree with the other Pygopods in having all their presacral vertebrae cylindroidal , whilst the Alcidae and the Penguins ( Spheniscidse ) and Gulls have their dorsal vertebrae opisthocoelous .
More than this , by careful examination of the fore end of the first sacral ( ) vertebra in the lesser Gulls ( Laruscanus , L. ridibundus , L. I find that this is not a ball to fit accurately into the cup of the last free dorsal , but that its facet is sinuous , and does leave some space inside the joint .
Hence I infer , cautiously , but with some considerable degree of confidence , that the modern Gulls have not quite perfected even the lower or " opisthoccelous " form of articulation of the vertebral centra for all their dorsals .
I call the opisthocoelous mode of articulation lower , because it certainly comes short in type of the cylindroidal , and is I believe the * In that bird , which is much smaller than the whole skull is 5 J inches long ( 137 mm. ) , and the rest of the axis 21 inches ( 56 mm ) .
VOL. XLIII .
2 L Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , more common kind of articulation in Archaic Reptiles , whilst the " proccelous " mode is almost universal in the existing Reptiles .
But , in fact , Birds are very eclectic in the manner in which their vertebral centra are articulated , and any kind of articulation that happens to be the best for the particular region in which it is found is selected , so to speak .
I will show , 1st , in what families the dorsal vertebrae are opistho-ccelous ; 2ndly , the modification in Birds of that type of articulation and then how many sorts of articulation they exhibit in this or that Family .
In his valuable memoir on the Penguins , * the late Professor Morrison Watson greatly understates the number of Families that have this peculiarity , namely , the Penguins and the Auks .
Now amongst the Steganopods or Pelicanine types they are found in the Cormorants and Darters ( Plohis ) .
Amongst the Old World Pygopods this structure occurs in all the Alcidse\#151 ; A lea , Uria , Oiceronia , \amp ; c. , and in all the Charadriomorphse or Shore birds ( Limicohe ) , and in the Gulls ( Laridae , Lestridae , \amp ; c. ) , but not in the Petrel tribe\#151 ; Procellaridae .
But amongst the most highly specialised arboreal " Altrices " I have long been familiar with this peculiarity in the great Parrot Family\#151 ; Psittacid\#174 ; \#151 ; in which , strangely enough , it is combined with a very unlooked for character , namely , with terminal epiphyses\#151 ; a structure which begins to show itself in the Ornithorhynchus , in the caudal region .
This is very remarkable in these high , hot-blooded birds , for in the whole class epiphyses are very rare , only one being constant ; this is found in the cnemial crest of the tibia .
But the Parrots are not the only high kinds of birds in which the dorsal vertebrae are opisthocoelous ; I have within the last two years found it in that remarkable type , the Oil Bird ( , an archaic , frugivorousGoat-sucker\#151 ; a bird which has no near allies , a crepuscular Cave-d-weller , found only in Cumana and a neighbouring island , and manifestly a waif from a nearly lost group .
On the Modification of the Opisthocoelian Articulation Birds .
The cup and hall in these opisthocoelous dorsals of birds is very different from what is found in the procoelous vertebrae of the Ophidia ; in them it is fairly circular or hemispherical , whilst in birds it is generally scarcely more than three-fifths of an ellipse , and the upper margin is emarginate , having a concave outline answering to the general concavity of the floor of the spinal canal .
That which shows such intense specialisation in the procoelous vertebrae of the Serpents is the remarkable manner in which an * " Challenger " Reports , , vol. 7 , p. 16 .
1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
additional upper pair of confluent pre-zygapophyses form what Owen calls a " zygosphenethis fits into a double cavity\#151 ; the " zygantrum .
" Now the articulation of the opisthocoelous dorsals of the birds thus mentioned is a complication of the articulation of centrum with centrum , and not any special modification , m their case , of the neuiai arch from which the zygapophyses spring .
In Reptiles , as far as I can see , whether existing , or otherwise , there is nothing like what I am about to describe ; if any Palaeontologist will show me a similar structure I shall be most glad to know of it .
Such a fact would tell us how carefully these highly metamorphosed types , the Birds , have kept along Reptilian lines , if not , if no such structure as this , any more than the cylindroidal articulation , is ever seen in Reptiles , then we have another instance of the manner in which the Birds have proceeded beyond the excellencies of their progenitors .
The greatest perfection of this complex opisthocoelian articulation of the dorsal vertebrae is best seen in some remarkable Charadrian birds ; three of which are Neotropical , whilst one is found in Kerguelen 's Island ; I refer to Chionis , and In Attagis gayi , a Neotropical bird of the Plover family , stouter than a Lapwing , but about the same size , a nearly extinct type , and very archaic , I find the best instance of this Ornithic modification of the opisthocoelian articulation of the dorsal vertebrae .
On the hind face of the centrum the cup in its fresh state is heart-shaped ; it is half a long ellipse , with its upper edge gently emarginate .
There is a strong annular " meniscus , " 1*5 mm. deep below , and 06 mm. wide for the rest of its extent .
It is a very solid fibro-cartilage , except for a small extent above , where it is finished by a ligamentous part .
When this meniscus , which partly divides the joint cavity into two spaces , is removed , the hollow cartilaginous tract is seen to be in three parts ; below , a semicircular hollow , marked in its middle by the notochordal " suspensory ligament , " and above , on each side , a flat ear-shaped additional facet .
These two facets look equally downwards and backwards , and they lie obliquely on a similar pair of facets over the ball on the fore-end of the centrum of the next vertebra which looks upwards and forwards .
These well-fitting oblique facets , fore and aft , are , indeed , additional zygapophyses , arising not from the neural arch , but from the centrum ; and they check the movement of the cup-and-ball joint .
For a bird needs not only a very long and absolutely ankylosed sacrum , jt must also have a very strong dorsal series ; not unfre-quently all but the last of this series are also ankylosed together ; this only takes place in birds which have their dorsals cylindroidal .
472 Prof. W. K. Parker . .
[ Mar. 22 , On the Presence of Procoelous Vertebrce in Birds , and of the Imperfect and Irregular Joints between the Centra .
The modern procoelous Reptilian form of vertebral articulation is not altogether wanting in Birds .
The atlas , although , devoid of its proper centrum , forms a more or less perfect joint of this kind in all birds ; it is cresegntic in many of the Precoces , and circular in most of the Altrices ; and in the latter it is not notched above for the " odontoid or suspensory ligament , " but perforated .
But in many of the higher or Altricial birds the last two movable joints in the caudal series become procoelous , and also acquire a joint-cavity .
The rest of that series have a sub-concave joint , with an intervertebral fibro-cartilage filling in the slight interspace ; these joints , however , retain the suspensory ligament like all the rest , and towards the end of this series the centrum is perforated by this remnant of the notochord , as in lower types .
The joint formed by the hind part of the atlas and fore-part of .the axis is irregular ; it cannot be classified with any of the other modes of articulation , but this arises from the fact that it is formed between the cortical or inferior part only of those two vertebras .
The two first vertebrae are greatly modified in all the " Amniota , " an anticipation of which is found in the Urodelous Amphibia.* There are two main varieties , in Carinate birds , of the articulation of the atlas with the occipital condyle , and of the atlas with the axis .
These correspond on the whole with the Natural Division of birds into " Altrices " and " Precoces " ; the Piping Crow of Australia ( norhina tibicen ) may be taken as an example of the first , and the Australian Bustard ( Eupodotisaustralis ) of the second kind .
In Gymnorhina the atlantal ( proccelous ) cup is a perfect hemisphere , but near its upper rim the suspensory ligament passes through a small hole to reach the basi-occipital .
This cup fits well under the hemispherical occipital condyle ; it is in position intermediate between that condyle and the true atlantal centrum .
The hind face of this imperfect vertebral body is scooped so as to form a crescentic groove , with the concavity upwards ; the convex fore-end of the axis fits into this groove , and the atlas grows under the joint as a bilobate and carinate process ; the joint is a crescentic condyle with its concavity looking upwards .
* In many of these there is an imperfect vertebra between that which is articulated with the two occipital condyles ; it is evidently an with an imperfect neural arch , and the median and lateral elements of which become fused to form the odontoid process .
The perfect vertebra next following is evidently the axis , but has the atlantal function of carrying the skull .
See Wiedersheim , ' On Salamandrina perspiciltata , ' Genoa , 1875 , Plates 2\#151 ; 4 , and my papers , " On the Skulls of the Urodeles , " ' Linn. Soc. Trans. , ' Str. 2 , Zook , vol. 2 , Plates 14\#151 ; 21 , and ' Zool. Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 9 , Plate 40 .
1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
In Eupodotis the procoelous facet of the atlas is a crescent with horns approximating , and between these the odontoid process , or true atlantal centrum , appears ; it is embraced by these " horns , " and , as in the other type , is tied to the basi-occipital by the suspensory ligament .
In this bird , contrary to the rule , the atlas does not grow under the axis , and the joint between them is almost proccelous ; and in this and still more in some other Precoces , the occipital articulation is transversely enlarged , ishows signs of being double , as in Amphibia , , the notochordal dimple answering to the wide interspace between the condyles in these forms .
I shall explain these things more perfectly when I eome to the " intercentra .
" The imperfect joints are those of the sacrum and the coccygeal bones .
The long general sacrum of a bird does not correspond to the special sacrum of a Reptile or a Mammal , and in the dorsal region of this long series the articulations are , at first , like those of the free dorsals in front , of them ; i.e. , they are cylindroidal or opisthoccelous , as the case may be .
But as we approach the true sacral region , between the acetabula , the faces of the centra are roughly flat , and the centra themselves are transverse subcrescentic blocks , with all the intercentral structures aborted .
The same thing takes place in the ploughshare or coccygeal bone , which finishes the chain by a series of from four to six , more and more imperfect , segments , from which , for a time , in the embryo the notochord projects , uncovered , behind .
There are other ankylosed parts of the vertebral chain besides the sacrum and the coccygeal bone ; in these the parts are normal at first , becoming afterwards fused together .
It is very common for the last cervical ( whose free rib does not unite by a short piece with the sternum ) to be fused with the dorsals\#151 ; all but the last , which remains free , as in Falcons , Pigeons , Fowls , \amp ; c. The same thing takes place in many of the Crane family , but generally with fewer bones .
In the Hornbills ( Buceridte ) the atlas and axis become ankylosed .
In some other Altrices we have there found that which is normally the last free dorsal fused with the first of the dorso-sacral series ; and in others the first dorsal sacral , covered by the iliac bones , remains free ; this is , however , a very irregular modification , and is sometimes due to old age in one case , and to a somewhat immature condition in the other .
In the present paper I cannot go into details as to the various modifications of the neural arches , with their zygapophyses and spines , nor describe the various outgrowths below that arise from the centra .
But there are distinct parts of the vertebra that must be mentioned ; these are the " intercentra " and ribs .
Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , On the Intercentra of Birds .
I have not spol\lt ; en of the neural arches as actually distinct from the centra ; they are , as bony tracts , for a time , but the great heat and haste of the development of an embryo bird causes many essentially distinct parts to be converted into hyaline cartilage continuously ; such distinct morphological regions , however , are very apt to assert their independence for a few weeks during the growth of the young bird , and although separate osseous centres in a continuous tract of hyaline cartilage are apt to be very inconstant as to the share they take in the work , yet , on the whole , in default of the primary segmentation of the cartilage , they are very valuable landmarks .
In a survey of this subject from below upwards , it is well known that the neural arches come before the centra ; that establishes their independence and importance .
It is very difficult to put this matter into a small compass , and to show throughout the whole of the Yertebrata what parts of a vertebra are important autogenous " elements " and what are mere apophyses or outgrowths .
The old pre-embryological nomenclature fails us here , entirely .
Nothing newer and nothing better has been said upon this subject than by Baur , whose wide acquaintance with the extinct forms that lie between Birds above , and Pishes below , makes him , on the whole , an excellent guide .
In some " General Notes " [ extracted from the ' American Naturalist , ' October , 1887 , pp. 942\#151 ; 945 ] Dr. Baur ( p. 945 ) gives his " results " as follows :\#151 ; " 1 .
That the ribs are intervertebral .
" 2 .
The ribs are originally one-headed and connected with well-developed intercentra .
" 8 .
All forms and connexions of the other ribs can be derived from that condition .
" 4 .
The lower arches of the caudal vertebrae are either formed by true ribs , the oldest fishes ( Ganoidei , Dipnoi ) , or by processes of the intercentra ( Teleostei , Stapedifera ) .
" 5 .
The connexion between the Dipnoi and the Stapedifera is still missing .
" 6 .
Some remarks on the nomenclature of the elements of the vertebral column:\#151 ; " Owen 's names , ' neurapophysis ' and ' pleurapophysis , ' are not correct ; the neural and pleural arches are no processes of the vertebrae , but are distinct parts .
" The two elements composing the neural arch ought to be called the ' neuroids , ' the two elements composing the pleural arch the ' pleuroids .
' 1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
" The spines connected with the neuroids ought to be called , as before , neural spines ; those connected with the pleuroids , pleural spines .
" The real centrum of the vertebra ought to be called centrum ; the lateral elements composing it h ( Albrecht ) , not pleuro-centra .
" The name intercentrum ought to be preserved .
" The part of the intercentrum , centrum , or neuroid to which the capitulum is articulated , may retain the name ; the part of the centrum or neuroid to which the tuberculum is articulated may detain the name diapophysis .
" If we consider the structure of a bird as compared with a Reptile or a long-tailed Mammal , it would seem to have no necessity for the development of " chevron-bones ' or intercentra ; yet these elements are constantly present at the two extremities of the vertebral chain , although in the hind-part they are often not more developed than those seen in the lumbar region of the Mole ( If all birds have come up to us through forms similar to the Archaeopteryx , then there must have been a slow , secular degradation of these inferior arches : that view , however , places the Toothed Birds of the Cretaceous Period as far from those Sanrurous types as the Birds of the present time .
That the aquatic , gill-bearing forms from which , originally , the Reptile and the Bird both arose were long-tailed , I have not the least doubt .
One thing , however , I never can see , and that is that there was any absolute necessity that there should be just one pair of those old quasi-larval Dipnoans ( or Amphibians ) that had , at that immeasurably remote epoch , " the promise and potency " of all those Reptiles and Birds that we know have arisen , and of all those myriads of others of which we know nothing .
As the times became ripe for the harvest of scaly and feathered Arms , they did appear , but had they all one father and one mother ?
Another question to be asked is , Were there ever any per saltum rises in the scale ; did all those nobler and still nobler forms acquire their varying degrees of excellency , from a low Reptile to a high Singing-bird , by the slow accretion of growth , and almost imperceptible change of structure , and increase of faculty ?
It would greatly relieve my mind if it could be shown that the most probable hypothesis is that the swarm of old Perennibrauchiates in a thousand places , and at varying times , changed for the better ; became sometimes rapidly , at other times more slowly , transformed as the occasions arose ; when the dilemma was transform or die .
That is the dilemma , now , to all our native Amphibia year by year , and that which takes place now in forms that rapidly rise to 476 Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , a great height above their former selves , may have taken place in the past on a grander scale , and with centuries for days .
However it came about , the Sa forms have become Nothurous , have a mere bastard tail or stump .
Yet this morphological feat is performed in the transformation of any Tadpole in " a month of days , " hence the real difficulty does not lie with .Nature , but with us .
But in studying the abortive chevron-bones of birds we shall find that these high and marvellously transformed types are not shorttailed , if we consider number merely ; it is the peculiar contraction and 'packing\#151 ; consolidation\#151 ; these segments have undergone that make them to differ so greatly from Reptiles and Saururous birds.* In the Common Swan ( Gygnus olor ) , behind the four true sacrals there are ten " urosacrals " fused with the long post-ilia ; then come seven simple , and one compound , bone , composed in the cygnet of five bony segments and an unossified rudiment behind , six altogether .
We thus get , even allowing for four sacrals , twenty-three vertebrae , more or less developed behind the outgoing sacral nerves , whilst the Archaeopteryx appears to have had only twenty-one caudal vertebrae ( See ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1863 , p. 517 ) .
Now of these post-sacral vertebrae of the Swan nearly the hinder half have rudimentary intercentra .
These are very small , those in the middle of the series being the largest .
In the cygnet about a month after hatching , the first is beneath the third movable joint , and the last under the last cartilaginous interspace but one , in the series of imperfect segments that form the " ploughshare bone ; " thus there are eight in all .
But there are intercentra at the other end of the chain ; these I have studied in the Cygnet , in the ripe embryo of the Mooruk ( Gasuarius bennettii ) and in various other birds , especially Carinatse ; whilst my son ( T. J. Parker ) has worked them out in the embryo of Apteryx .
In these embyo , and young birds , there are always found the following osseous centres in the atlas and axis , namely , a pair for the neural arch of each vertebra , and one for the so-called " body " of the atlas , one for the odontoid process of the axis , and two for the body of the axis , not right and left , but one before the other .
The osseous centre in the cartilaginous odontoid process is strung upon the notochord , like the rest of the centra ; it is the specialised * This subject has long been on my mind ; lately Dr. Baur unearthed an almost forgotten paper of mine on the tail of modern birds .
See his " W. K. Parker 's Bemerkungen liber Archaeopteryx , 1864 , und seine Znsammenstellung der hauptsach-lichsten Litteratur tiber diesen Yogel , " ' Zool. Anzeiger , ' No. 216 , 1886 .
My earliest paper on this special point was read at the Zoological Society on December 8 , 1863 .
See ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1863 , pp. 511\#151 ; 518 .
It was " On the Position of the Crested Screamer ( Palamedea [ Chauna ] ch 1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
and segmented centrum of the atlas , whilst the much larger bony centre to which it is attached , and which also is strung upon the notochord , is the centrum of the axis ; they coalesce together , according to the rule , a new rule and part of the general transformation of an Amniotic type .
But the so-called body of the atlas is in position between as well as below the occipital articulation , and is cortical .
The lesser and foremost bone in the axis is also intermediate between as well as below the true centrum of the atlas and of the axis .
I quite agree with Baur that these two bones are although I am not ready with the " strong reasons " he can bring from every corner of Palaeontology .
In considering both intercentra and , there are two birds that have helped me most ; these are the Swan and the Cormorant ( crocorax carbof Whether faster or more slowly , the transformation of these two types from a Reptilian into an Avian form is certainly well worthy of our closest attention .
The Ostrich tribe , a sort of half-way creatures , only help a little in this research ; yet in tracing the stages of a Swan or of any other of the Anatidae , there would appear to be nothing strange in the sudden arrest of one at the Struthious stage ; we seem for a time to have before us a new kind of shortlegged and web-footed bird of the Ostrich kind ; does move , however , it develops into a Carinate bird with a Desmognathous palate .
I lay stress upon this , because , as I shall soon show , the Anatidae hold with the Ratitae in the matter of a perfect series of cervical ribs , as in the Crocodile , but more aborted , and soon fused with the vertebne .
Birds are very uniform , in all essentials , in their atlas and axis ; but their caudal vertebrae differ just as much as the structures they support differ , e.g. , the " Rectrices , " or tail quills , that form their double , fan-shaped , third wing .
The Cormorant puts its tail to a much greater variety of uses than the Swan ; the component vertebrae of the former are stronger and have much larger intercentra to serve as levers to the depressors of the tail .
There are two movable caudals between the post-ilia in the Cormorant , and the second of these has a seed-like intercentrum that lies below and between the second caudal articulation .
The next is much larger , and the rest are as long and twice as broad as the neural spines of the same vertebrae , and are ankylosed to the hinder bone ; they lie well under the one in front , and form the lower third of the pro-coelous joint .
The last or compound bone has four of these intercentra fused together and to the imperfect vertebrae to which they belong ; thus this bone has a dilated and dentate base , the fore-part of which passes under three-fourths of the last simple vertebra , and is bilobate , whilst those in front are clavate .
In some birds these intercentra have Prof. \\#165 ; .
K. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , two crura , and these may meet below and form a hcemal canal ; in the Cormorant they are solid , and are manifestly developed for steering purposes\#151 ; as in the Kestrel or Windhover ( The habits of that voracious , rapid , and powerful bird ( the Cormorant ) explain the teleology of these strong and solid intercentra of the tail .
Coming now to the ribs , my two chosen types , the Swan and the Cormorant , will be the best instances to show how thin the partition is between a hot-blooded bird , and a cold-blooded generalised Reptile , like the Crocodile .
In my earlier papers on the Osteology of Birds , I wrote in a general and somewhat confused manner about reptilian characters in Birds ; but Professor Huxley 's inestimable paper " On the Classification of Birds " ( ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1867 , pp. 415\#151 ; 472 ) , so thoroughly ventilated the relations of the two great classes , Reptiles and Birds , showing indeed that in a very true sense the two were one , a huge double class\#151 ; base below and noble above\#151 ; that if I am confused now , it is not the fault of my " guide .
" It is perfectly true that the Ratitse , on the whole , are the lowest , most generalised , and most reptilian of birds ; but they have a high degree of ornithic specialisation in some parts , much beyond what is seen in some other birds that , on the whole , belong to a much higher level .
How the Ratitse are related to a large number of families of birds , that like themselves have cylindroidal vertebrae up to the sacrum ; and there is an almost natural and complete series of these forms , Tinamous , Hemipods , Fowls , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. But as I showed many years ago , the Duck-tribe and the Fowl-tribe have a skull which is fundamentally alike in both groups , and is unlike that of any other kind of bhd 's skull , and yet is easily derivable from the Struthious type , by this and that gentle metamorphic alteration .
But if the Cormorant and his relatives were each derived from Ratitee , they must have been quite unlike those now existing ; a Swan , strange as the assertion may sound , is modified from an essentially Struthious embryo .
I have traced it step by step .
But the Cormorant , and the Darter ( ) , its nearest relative , seem more like a survival of transformed Plesiosaurs , and their Vertebral Chain is so intensely Reptilian that , among living forms , the Crocodile is the best guide to the morphologist in its interpretation .
On the Ribs of Birds .
I will first describe the ribs of the Swan , and then those of the Cormorant .
In Gygnus olor , as in all the normal " Chenomorphac , " the vertebral artery , right and left , runs inside a series of bridges , which , eked out by strong membrane , form a canal all along the neck .
The piers of these small bridges are formed by the upper and lower transverse 1888-3 On ihe Vertebral Chain of Birds .
processes ( diapophyses and parapophyses ) ; the arches by arrested ribs\#151 ; " pleuroids .
" As a rule , in the Carinatse , these are not developed on the axis and atlas ; but in the Anatidse , as in the Ratitse , generally , they are found in them also .
The arch on the atlas is a strong but narrow bar ; in the Cygnet of a month old there is in it a styloid bony rib , placed subvertically .
The rest are larger , are horizontally placed , and have a free styloid end , which in many cases almost reaches to the end of the centrum of the next vertebra .
These rib lets have but little primary independence as cartilages ; but they ossify separately ; they are clavate , and this clubbed fore-end has thus no distinction of " capitulum " and " tuberculum , " although lower edge answers to the one , and the npper to the othei .
In the twenty-second vertebra the styloid part is lost , and only a broad vertical bridge is developed by the " pleuroid ; " in the twenty-third only a narrow bridge , like that on the but stouter .
On the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth the ribs are segmented off , have double heads , and remain free , although they do not form a perfect arch by reaching the sternum ; indeed the last but one is very short .
In these two vertebrae the facet for the capitulum is on the centrum , opposite the lower part of the facet of the centrum ; that for the tuberculum is on the diapophysis .
Thence along the five free dorsals and the two first dorso-sacrals , the joint for the tuberculum ( the parapophysis ) gets gradually higher , so that m the two last it lies over where the suture was between the centrum and neurapophysis .
The developed ribs of the third and fourth sacral ( dorso-sacral ) , have lost their capitulum , and articulate only by their tuberculum on the diapophysis .
The last three vertebrae of the seven that buttress the , have only a generalised mass , right and left ; and on the next four , the true sacrals , these are either gone , or reduced to mere prickles .
The twelfth and thirteenth have strong pleural bars , not segmented off in the cartilaginous condition , but they are ossified as distinct bars ; these coalesce with the centrum and diapophysis .
Behind these , in the Cygnet , there are no " pleuroids , " but in a recently hatched Duckling ( Anas boschas , domesticus ) , I Uni five pairs of these little to the fore-half of the Urosacral series .
Thus there are thirty-four pairs of ribs , rudimentary or developed , without a break , in the Common Swan , and then an attempt at forming a new series behind the sacral nerves .
Also , let it be noticed , that the first two pairs of pleuroids , or rib-rudiments , arise from inter-centra , whilst the last two of the twenty-nine have lost their capitulum , or primary head , and are articulated by their tuberculum or secondary head to the diapophysis , an outgrowth of the neural arch ( neuroid ) .
Thus we have in a single vertebral chain an epitome of the history Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , of the evolution of ribs .
Towards the end of that chain , the vertebrae and ribs form the upper part of the most highly specialised thoracic cage in existence , it is the last consummation of the whole evolutional series , the furthest from the beginning made by the when it has just been metamorphosed into a Lamprey .
In the Cormorant , one of the lower forms of the Pelecanine Family ( " Steganopods , " " Dysporomorphae " ) , the vertebral chain is much more archaic than in either the Swan , or even the Ostrich and its kindred .
Here , indeed , we miss the atlantal rib , but rudiments are present on the axis , and these are attached to an ankylosed intercentrum .
On the whole , the greater number of the styloid cervical ribs are like those of the S wan , except that the upper edge of the free style is not connected with the neural arch by an ossified aponeurosis .
There are only three presacral vertebrae that have- developed ribs attached to sternal pieces , and thus forming perfect cinctures , finished below by the common inverted keystone or sternum .
The ribs on the last two cervicals , the nineteenth and twentieth , have perfect heads , and have uncinate pieces attached and ankylosed to them , but their sternals are suppressed .
In front of them there are three vertebrae , with non-segmented riblets , that have no retral style ; these are mere necks of a developed rib , and run almost horizontally from the centrum to the large diapophysis ; they are , in fact , similar to , but much stronger than , the atlantal rib of the Swan .
The parapophysis in these three vertebrae stretches straight out from the centrum , which is also alate behind it , and these bars enclose a large foramen , 8 mm. wide and 4 mm. high .
The nineteenth cervical , with its developed vertebral rib , forms for the capitulum of that rib a deep cup with two distinct facets , so that the head of the rib articulates in a manner similar to what is seen in Mammals .
In them , however , the two facets are one in front of the other , and on distinct vertebrae ; here they are one above the other , and near the fore-end of the same vertebra , one is on the centrum , and the other is on the neural arch .
The facet on the centrum is higher than the junction of capitulum and centrum , in the non-segmented rib next in front .
In the last cervical , the lower facet is still higher , but is on the centrum ; both these pairs of ribs have a long neck and the normal articulation of the tuberculum with the under face of the end of the large diapophysis , an outgrowth of the neural arch .
In the three dorsals the parapophysial cup for the capitulum is entirely on the neural arch , and , from before , backwards , it keeps rising to a higher point in that arch .
Thus in a few vertebrae we have the capitulum rising from a point inhere the intercentrum would he if it were developed , to a point quite clear of , and some height above , the centrum itself .
The first general sacral vertebra is similar to the last On the Vertebral Chain of 1888 .
] free dorsal ; its vertebral rib has a perfect sternal piece , and thus there are four complete cinctures to the thorax .
The last developed rib is feebler , and its sternal piece does not quite reach the sternum .
There is a dia-parapophysial facet for its feeble upper part ; it is a cup nearly as large as the diapophysial facet in front of it , and the cartilage lining the cup is extended downwards on a narrow convexity of the transversely carinate outgrowth , and thus this rib , with a small head , and a neck less than half the normal size , articulates by one continuous facet belonging to both tuberculum and capitulum , and entirely oil the neural arch .
The third vertebra in the general sacral series has a pair of ribs ; these have lost their capitulum entirely ; they are mere rods , 6 mm. long and 0-75 mm. thick , and are ankylosed by their inner twisted end to the diapophyses .
After these come three pairs of strong buttresses\#151 ; generalised masses , from which all trace of rudimentary ribs has gone\#151 ; in the old bird .
Then come two vertebras with the bodies nearly devoid of lower outgrowths ; these are the true sacrals .
These are followed by the urosacrals , the first of which has strong rib-bars that buttress the post-ilia , and that are ossified as distinct riblets , but are not segmented off as distinct tracts of cartilage in the embryo .
But in old birds the buttresses of the second true sacral are not quite absorbed , but remain as prickles , for the clearing away of unnecessary parts goes on even after the bird is adult .
This is only one among many instances that could be adduced in which the transformation of the ^keleton is seen to be continued throughout life .
In that transformation , from beginning to end , each individual bird repeats the story of its birth in the past ages , and each individual bird seems to be striving towards some goal , albeit in its present state , when adult , its structure is to the morphologist an absolutely perfect thing .
In birds , as a rule , the true sacrals abort , or even suppress , the pleuroid rudiments in the true sacrals ; four of these block-like vertebrae form the sacrum proper of the Swan ; two only in the Cormorant.* # Professor Huxley ( op .
cit. , p. 416 ) , in this third character of Birds as distinguished from Reptiles , says that , " Although all birds possess a remarkably large sacrum , the vertebrae , through the intervertebral foramina of which the roots of the sacral plexus ( and , consequently , of the great sciatic nerve ) pass , are not provided with expanded ribs abutting against the ilium externally , and against the bodies of these vertebra by their inner ends .
" Those true sacrals are called ' lumbo-sacral ' by Professor Mivart ( 'ZooL Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 10 , p. 345 , Plate 61 , fig. 1 ) , whilst the first two " uro-sacrals " are called " sacral .
" This is certainly an erroneous nomenclature .
Professor Mivart speaks of his examination of the skeleton of P. and P. brasiliensis , as well as of P. carbo .
His figure of the pelvis is probably one of these , and not of P oarbo ; it differs from the two old specimens of the common Prof. T. J. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , I shall finish this paper with one more instance .
In most birds the true sacrals have only the upper transverse processes , or diapophyses ; the lower bars , or arrested " pleuroids , " are entirely gone in the adult , but small prickles remain , often more on one side than on the other .
Thus the spaces for the large sacral nerves and their ganglia , and for the lobes of the kidneys , are not quite cleared .
In the Tiger-Bittern ( Tigrisoma leucoloph , a Neotropical member of the " Ardeidae , " there is no vertebra in the sacrum , until we come to the last three uro-sacrals , that has not its inferior or " pleuroid " bars .
The sacrum of this bird is composed of fifteen vertebrae , the first has developed ribs , with imperfect sternal pieces , the next two have small ankylosed ribs , separated for some distance from the diapophyses .
Then come three with stout generalised pre-iliac buttresses .
The next six have inferior rib-bars , those of the last four are strong , those of the first two weak .
On the left side the second of these rods is membranous for a short extent ; on the right side it is imperfect in its outer part , it is a mere prickle growing from the centrum .
Except on the atlas this bird has ribs or rudiments of ribs up to the twelfth sacral .
I suspect that if the ancestral form from which the Tiger-bittern arose could be put face to face with its stilted descendant , the two would differ as much as the vermiform larva of Tipula oleracea differs from its winged and stilted imago .
Y. " Second Preliminary Note on the Development of Apteryx .
" By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , C.M.Z.S. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago .
Communicated by W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received March 8 , 1888 .
The materials for the present investigation consist of embryos of the three common species of Apteryx , viz. , A. , A. and A. mantelli .
Most of them , including all the earlier stages , were collected for me by Mr. R. Henry , of Lake Te Anau ; a nearly ripe embryo of A. mantelli was obtained from Mr. A. Reischek : and I am indebted to Mme .
Muller for a half-ripe specimen of A. , and to Sir Walter Buffer for two , somewhat older , of A. mantelli .
I desire to record my sincere thanks to the Council of the Royal Society for the grant which has enabled me to defray the expenses of the investigation .
My observations are far from complete , and deal only wTith comparatively late stages .
The eggs of Apteryx are at all times difficult to obtain , as evidenced by their high market value , and Mr. Henry is bird dissected by me in having the pre-ilia , buttressed by seven pairs of massive processes instead of six , by having only one true sacral , and by showing strong costal bars on both the first and second uro-sacral .
"

