]\gt ; Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Bvotution .
241 here obtained .
The value obtained by E. Rutherford* for the velocity the negative ions produced in dry carbonic acid ( cm .
per second ) by the action of ultra-violet light , is quite near to that here obtained 0.81 cm .
per second ) for the ions produced by Rontgen rays , but his values for dry air ( cm .
per second ) and dry hydrogen cm .
per second ) are considerably smaller .
In discharge from points , A. P. Chattock has obtained for the velocities of the positive and negative ions in dry air 413 and 540 cm .
per second respectively for a field of 1 E.S.U. per cm .
, which values are quite close to those obtained here for the ions produced by Rontgen rays .
J. S. Townsend has shown that from the coefficients of diffusion of ions and from their velocities it is possible to compare the charges carried by the different ions , and also to compare them with those carried by the ions in the electrolysis of liquids .
By using the velocities given above with the coefficients of diffusion determined by J. S. Townsend , the values of No are obtained , being the number of molecules in 1 .
of the gas and the charge carried by each ion .
The results thus obtained for the moist gases , air , oxygen , and hydrogen , perhaps justify the statement that the charges carried by the positive and the ions are equal , and that the charge is the same for the different gases , and is equal to the charge carried by the hydrogen ion in the electrolysis of liquids .
The values of No obtained for the positive ions in these gases when dry are considerably larger than the above , while in carbonio acid all of the results are over 20 per cent. smaller .
" " Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
VIII .
On the of Characters not Quantitatively Measurable By KAlL PEARSON , .
Received February 7 , \mdash ; Read March 1 , 1900 .
( From the Department of Applied Mathematics , University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) 1 .
In August last I presented to the Society a memoir on the inheritance of coat-colour in thoroughbred horses , and of eye-colour in man .
This memoir , which was read in November of last year , presented the novel feature of determining correlation between characters which were not capable priori of being quantitatively measured .
The theoretical * E. Rutherford , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc vol. 9 , Part VIII .
A. P. Chattock , ' Phil. Mag November , 1899 .
J. S. Townsend , ' Phil. Trans , vol. , 1899 .
More recently , in studying the phenomena of reversion in Basset Hounds , Mr. Bramley-Moore indicated to me how my method , although correct in theory , differed sensibly in the numerical results with the pro- cesses of interpolating employed .
I then proposed a new method , and the analytical discussion of its details was worked out in part by Mr. Bramley-Moore himself , by Mr. L. N. G. Filon , M.A. , and by myself .
Dr. Alice Lee also came to our assistance , and the result is the present joint paper .
On the basis of the new methods , we have already worked out npwards of sixty coefficients of correlation , principally of heredity .
Thus the thirty-six coefficients of heredity for coat-colour in horses and eye-colour in man have been re-calculated , as well as twelve coefficients for heredity in coat-colour of Basset Hounds given in a paper on the Law of Reversion presented on December 28th , and about to appear in the ' Proceedings .
' The great growth of the theoretical investigations has , however , compelled me to break up the old memoir of last August into two parts , the one ( the present ) dealing only with theory , and the other with its application to inheritance in the horse and man .
2 .
The theory of the present memoir depends upon a very simple feature of normal correlation .
If be the frequency of a complex of characters lying between and and .
, and , where is the deviation of the character from its mean , then where is the correlation of the and qth organs .
This simple differential relation enables us to expand for any number of characters in powers of the correlation coefficients ( necessarily less than unity ) by lsIaclaurin 's theorem .
But since we may replace a differential with regard to a coefficient of correlation by a double differential with regard to the corresponding organs , the coefficients of correlation may be put zero before instead of after the differentiation .
In other words , we obtain a symbolic operator which , applied to a normal surface of frequency for -uncorrelated organs , converts it into a correlated surface of frequency with coefficients of correlation of arbitrary values .
This operator gives us by aid of certain symbolic equations the expansion of the -fold integral * That memoir was at my own request returned for revision after being accepted for the ' Philosophical anBactions .
' atical Contributions to the of volution .
243 terms of the coefficients of correlation , and a series of new functions which we term the -functions .
These satisfy the difference equation : the differential equation In fact The calculation of these functions is shown to be easy , and their properties are investigated .
In this manner the volume of a frequency surface of the order cut off by planes parallel to the co-ordinate planes is shown to be capable of calculation , and its value is determined in the numerical illustrations given for example of 1 , 2 , 3 up to 6-fold correlation .
It may be noted that by putting , we have really obtained a result which enables us to find the " " area\ldquo ; of a " " spherical triangle\ldquo ; in -fold hyperspace in terms of a series ascending by powers and products of the cosines of the angles between its faces .
The application of these results to the correlation of characters not quantitatively measurable , arises from the fact that the -fold integral above given , and which we have shown how to evalute , measures the total frequency beyond certain boundaries .
We can observe , for example , whether horses ' coats are bay or darker ( or chestnut or lighter ) , whether eyes are grey or lighter ( or , dark grey or darker ) .
Thus by forming mass frequencies instead of frequency distributions for small changes of aracter , we can find equations to determine the correlation .
The probable error of such correlation , the convergency of the series , and other points are investigated .
3 .
Some diseusssion is given to the problem of association , and coefficients allied to Mr. Yule 's coefficient of association but somewhat closer in value to the coefficient of correlation are considered , and their relative closeness measured .
4 .
A number of illustrations of the new method are given from heredity in horses , dogs , and man , and it is shown how normality of frequency must even for such a character as stature only be looked upon as a first An investigation is also made into the influence of superior stock * Cited by so an example of " " normality March 8 , 1900 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Bakerian Lecture , " " The Specific Heat of Metals and the Relation of Specific Heat to Atomic Weight was delivered by Professor W. A. , F.R.S. BAKERIAN CTURE .
On the Specific Heat of Metals and the Relation of Specific Heat to Atomic Weight By W. A. TILDEN , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. , Professor.of Chemistry in the Royal College of Science , London .
With an Appendix by Professor JOHN , F.R.S. Received February \mdash ; Read March 8 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in this paper were begun with he object of assisting in the determination of the relative values of the atomic wcights of cobalt and nickel , but were continued with the further rpose of testing the validity of the law of Dulong and Petit .
The metaIs cobalt and nickel closely resemble each other in density , meIting point , and other physical properties , as well as in atomic weight .
The pure metals were prepared for the purposes of these experiments with the most scrupulous care , cobalt by taking

