V. ( Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun.-No .
III .
" By J. NORMAN LocKYEn , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. Received March 4 , 1869 .
Since my second paper under the above title was communicated to the Royal Society , the weather has been unfavourable to observatory work to an almost unprecedented degree ; and , as a consequence , the number of observations I have been enabled to make during the last four months is very much smaller than I had hoped it would be .
Fortunately , however , the time has not been wholly lost in consequence of the weather ; for , by the kindness of Dr. Frankland , I have been able in the interim to familiarise myself at the Royal College of Chemistry with the spectra of gases and vapours under previously untried conditions , and , in addition to the results already communicated to the Royal Society by Dr. Frankland and myself , the experience I have gained at the College of Chemistry has guided me greatly in my observations at the telescope .
In my former paper it was stated that a diligent search after the known third line of hydrogen in the spectrum of the chromosphere had not met with success .
When , however , Dr. Frankland and myself had determined that the pressure in the chromosphere even was small , and that the widening out of the hydrogen lines was due in the main , if not entirely , to pressure , I determined to seek for it again under better atmospheric conditions ; and I succeeded after some failures .
The position of this third line is at 2796 of Kirchhoff 's scale .
It is generally excessively faint , and much more care is required to see it than is necessary in the case of the other lines ; the least haze in the sky puts it out altogether .
Hence , then , with the exception of the bright yellow line , the observed spectra of the prominences and of the chromosphere correspond exactly with the spectrum of hydrogen under different conditions of pressure-a fact not only important in itself , but as pointing to what may be hoped for in the future .
With regard to the yellow line which Dr. Frankland and myself have stated may possibly be due to the radiation of a great thickness of hydrogen , it became a matter of importance to determine whether , like the red and green lines ( C &amp; F ) , it could be seen extending on to the limb .
I have not observed this : it has always in my instrument appeared as a very fine sharp line resting absolutely on the solar spectrum , and never encroaching on it .
350 [ Mar. 18 , Dr. Frankland and myself have pointed out that , although the chromosphere and the prominences give out the spectrum of hydrogen , it does not follow that they are composed merely of that substance : supposing others to be mixed up with hydrogen , we might presume that they would be indicated by their selective absorption near the sun 's limb .
In this case the spectrum of the limb would contain additional Fraunhofer lines .
I have pursued this investigation to some extent , with , at present , negative results ; but I find that special instrumental appliances are necessary to settle the question , and these are now being constructed .
If we assume , as already suggested by Dr. Frankland and myself , that no other extensive atmosphere besides the chromosphere overlies the photosphere , the darkening of the limb being due to the general absorption of the chromosphere , it will follow : I. That an additional selective absorption near the limb is extremely probable .
II .
That the hydrogen Fraunhofer lines indicating the absorption of the outer shell of the chromosphere will vary somewhat in thickness : this I find to be the case to a certain extent .
III .
That it is not probable that the prominences will be visible on the sun 's disk .
In connexion with the probable chromospheric darkening of the limb , an observation of a spot on February 20th is of importance .
The spot observed was near the limb , and the absorption was much greater than anything I had seen before ; so great , in fact , was the general absorption , that the several lines could only be distinguished with difficulty , except in the very brightest region .
I ascribe this to the greater length of the absorbing medium in the spot itself in the line of sight , when the spot is observed near the limb , than when it is observed in the centre of the diskanother indication of the great general absorbing power of a comparatively thin layer , on rays passing through it obliquely .
I now come to the selective absorption in a spot .
I have commenced a map of the spot-spectrum , which , however , will require some time to complete .
In the interim , I may state that the result of my work up to the present time in this direction has been to add magnesium and barium to the material ( sodium ) to which I referred in my paper in 1866 , No. I. of the present series ; and I no longer regard a spot simply as a cavity , but as a place in which principally the vapours of sodium , barium , and magnesium ( owing to a downrush ) occupy a lower position than they do ordinarily in the photosphere .
I do not make this assertion merely on the strength of the lines observed to be thickest in the spot-spectrum , but also upon the following observations on the chromosphere made on the 21st and 28th ultimo .
On both these days the brilliancy of the F line taught me that something unusual was going on ; so I swept along the spectrum to see if any materials were being injected into the chromosphere .
1869 .
] 351 MOn the 21st I caught a trace of magnesium ; but it was late in the day , and I was compelled to cease observing by houses hiding the sun .
On the 28th I was more fortunate .
If anything , the evidences of intense action were stronger than on the 21st , and after one glance at the F line I turned at once to the magnesium lines .
I saw them appearing short and faint at the base of the chronmosphere .
My work on the spots led me to imamgine that I should ind sodium-vapour associated with the magnesium ; and on turning from b to DI found this to b th e case .
I afterwards reversed barium in thel same wav .
The spectruma of the chromosphere seemed to be fulil of lines , and I do not think the three substanees I have named accounted for all of them .
The observation was one of excessive delicacy , as the lines were short and ver ?
y thin / .
The prominence was a small one , about twice the usual heigh-t of the chromosphere ; but the hydrogen lines towered higoh abov se du o those e due to the newly injected aterials .
The lin fes i of magunesiuin edeuldd perhaps one-sixth Of the height of the F line , barium a little less , and sodium least of all We have , then , the following facts : I. The lines of sodium , mtngues'iural , and barium , when observed in a spot , are thicker than their usual Fraunhofer lines .
II .
The lines of sodium , -magicesium , and barium , when observed in the chromosphere , are thinner tShan their usual Fraunhofer lines .
*A series of experiments bearing upon these observations is now in progress at the College of Chemistry , and will form the subject of a communication from Dr. Frankland and my ?
slf .
I maty at once , however , relmarkl that we have here additional evidence of a fact I asserted in 1865 on telescopic evidence the fact , 1namnely , that silot is the seat of a downrush , a downrush to a region , as we now kinow , whiere the selective absorption of the upper strata is different f romz what it rwould ibe(and , indeed , is elsewhere ) at a higher level .
MIessrs .
De La Pue , Ste art , and Loewy , ho brough t forward the theory of a downrush about the same ime as my observatsions were 1made in 1865 , at once suggested as one advant'agse of this explanation that all the gradations of darkness , from the facue to tuhe ce ntr ; al umbra , are thus supposed to be due to the same cause , namely , the presence to a greeater or less extent of a relatively cooler absorbing atmosphere .
oThis I think is now spectroscopically established we h.ave , in fct , two causes for the darkening of a spot : I. The general absorption of the chromosplere , thicker here than elsewhere , as the spot is a cavity .
II .
The greater selective absorption of the lower sodium , barium , magnesium stratum , the surface of its last layer being below the ordinary level..iesssrs .
Ie La li no , Ste.wart , and Loewy also suggested , in their ' Researches on Solar Thysics , ' that if the photosphere of the sun be the 'plaie of condensatioon of gaseous matter , the plane may be fouand to be subject to 352 [ Afar .
18 , periodical elevations and depressions , and that at the epoch of minimum sun-spot-frequency the plane might be uplifted very high in the solar atmosphere , so that there was comiparatively little cold absorbing atmosphere above it , and therefore great difficulty in forming a spot .
This suggestion is one of great value ; and , as I pointed out in my previous paper , its accuracy can fortunately now be tested .
It may happen , however , that in similar periodical fluctuations the chromosphere may be carried up and down with the photosphere ; and I have already efidence that possibly such a state of things may have occurred since 1860 , for I do not find the C and F Fraunhofer lines of the same relative thickness as they were in that year* .
I am waiting to make observations with the large Steinheil spectroscope before I consider this question settled .
But the well-known great thickness of the F line in Sirius and other stars will point out the excessive importance of such observations s as a nethod of ascertaining not only the physical constitution , but the actual pressures of the outer limits of stellar atmospheres , and of the same atmosphere at different epochs .
And when other spectra have been studied as we have now studied hydrogen , additional means of continuing similar researches will be at our command ; indeed a somewhat careful examination of the spectra of the different classes of stars , as defined by Father Seechi , leads me to believe that several broad conclusions are not far to seek ; and I hope soon to lay them before the Royal Society .
For some time past I have been engaged in endeavouring to obtain a sight of the prominences , by using a very rapidly oscillating slit ; but although I believe this miethod will eventually succeed , the spectroscope I employ does not allow me to apply it under sufficiently good conditions , and I am not at present satisfied with the results I have obtained .
Hearing , however , from Mr. De La Rue , on February 27th , that Mr. }Iuggins had succeeded in anticipating me by using absorbing media and a wide slit ( the description forwarded to me is short and vague ) , it immediately struck me , as possibly it has struck Mr. Huggins , that the wide slit is quite sufficient without any absorptive media ; and during the last few days I have been perfectly enchanted with the sight which my spectroscope has revealed to me .
The solar and atmospheric spectra being hidden , and the image of the wide slit alone being visible , the telescope or slit is moved slowly , and the strange shadow-forms flit past .
IHere one is reminded , by the fleecy , infinitely delicate cloud-films , of an English hedgerow with luxuriant elms ; here of a densely intertwined tropical forest , the intimatelv interwoven branches threading in all directions , the prominences generally expanding as they mount upwards , and chnanging slowly , indeed almost imperceptibly .
By this:mnethod the smallest details of the pro* I have learnt , after handing this paper in to the Royal Society , that in Angstr6m 's Map the C and F lines are nearly of the same breadth : this I had gathered from observations made with my own spectroscope .
Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectroscopic minences and of the chromosphere itself are rendered perfectly visible and easy of observation .
ADDENDUM .
-Received March 17 , 1869 .
Since the foregoing paper was written , I have had , thanks to the somewhat better weather , some favourable opportunities for continuing two of the lines of research more especially alluded to in it ; I refer to the method I had adopted for viewing the prominences , and to the injection of sodium , magnesium , &amp;c. into the chromosphere .
With regard to seeing the prominences , I find that , when the sky is fice from haze , the views I obtain of them are so perfect that I have not thought it worth while to remount the oscillating slit .
I am , however , collecting red and green and violet glass , of the required absorptions , to construct a rapidly revolving wheel , in which the percentages of light of each colour may be regulated .
In this way I think it possible that we may in time be able to see the prominences as they really are seen in an eclipse , with the additional advantage that we shall be able to see the sun at the same time , and test the connexion or otherwise between the prominences and the surface-phenomena .
Although I find it generally best for sketching-purposes to have the open slit in a radial direction , I have lately placed it at a tangent to the limb , in order to study the general outline of the chromosphere , which in a previous communication I stated to be pretty uniform , while M. Janssen has characterized it as " a niveaufort inegal et tourmente .
" lie opinion is now that perhaps the mean of these two descriptions is , as usual , nearer the truth , unless the surface changes its character to a large extent from time to time .
I find , too , that in different parts the outline varies : here it is undulating and billowy ; there it is ragged to a degree , flames , as it were , darting out of the general surface , and forming a ragged , fleecy , interwoven outline , which in places is nearly even for some distance , and , like the billowy surface , becomes excessively uneven in the neighbourhood of a prominence .
According to my present limited experience of these exquisitely beautiful solar appendages , it is generally possible to see the whole of their structure ; but sometimes they are of such dimensions along the line of sight that they appear to be much denser than usual ; and as there is no longer under these circumstances any background to the central portion , only the details of the margins can be observed , in addition to the varying brightnesses .
Mioreover it does not at all follow that the largest prominences are those in which the intensest action , or the most rapid change , is going on , the action as visible to us being generally confined to the regions just in , or above , the chromosphere , the changes arising from violent uprush or rapid dissipation , the uprush and dissipation representing the birth and death of a prominence .
As a rule , the attachment to the chroinosphere 354 [ Miar .
18 , is narrow and is not often single ; higher up , the stems , so to speak , intertwine , and the prominence expands and soars upward until it is lost in delicate filaments , which are carried away in floating masses .
Since last October , up to the time of trying the method of using the open slit , I had obtained evidence of considerable changes in the prominences from day to day .
With the open slit it is at once evident that changes on the small scale are continually going on ; it was only on the 14th inst .
that I observed any change at all comparable in magnitude and rapidity to those already observed by M. Janssen .
About 9 " 45 " on that day , with a tangential slit I observed a fine dense prominence near the sun 's equator , on the eastern limb .
I tried to sketch it with the slit in this direction ; but its border was so full of detail , and the atmospheric conditions were so unfavourable , that I gave up the attempt in despair .
I turned the instrument round 90 ?
and narrowed the slit , and my attention was at once taken by the F line ; a single look at it taught me that an injection into the chromosphere and intense action were taking place .
These phenomena I will refer to subsequently .
At 10h 5011 , when the action was slackening , I opened the slit ; I saw at once that the dense appearance had all disappeared , and cloud-like filaments had taken its place .
The first sketch , embracing an irregular prominence with a long perfectly straight one , which I called A , was finished at 11 " 51 , the height of the prominence being 1 ' 5 " , or about 27,000 miles .
I left the Observatory for a few minutes ; and on returning , at h11 15"1 , I was astonished to find that part of the prominence A had entirely disappeared ; not even the slightest rack appeared in its place : whether it was entirely dissipated , or whether parts of it had been wafted towards the other part , I do not know , although I think the latter explanation the more probable one , as the other part had increased .
We now come to the other attendant phenomena .
First , as to the F line .
In my second paper , under the above title , I stated that the F line widens as the sun is approached , and that sometimes the bright line seems to extend on to the sun itself , sometimes on one side of the F line , sometimes on the other .
Dr. Frankland and myself have pointed out , as a result of a long series of experiments , that the widening out is due to pressure , and apparently not to temperature per se ; the F line near the vacuum-point is thin , and it widens out on both sides ( I do not say to the same extent ) as the pressure is increased .
Now , in the absence of any disturbing cause , it would appear that when the wider line shows itself on the sun on one side of the F line , it should at the same time show itself on the other ; this , however , it does not always do .
I have now additional evidence to adduce on this point , and this time in the prominence line itself , off the sun .
In the prominence to which I have referred , the F bright line underwent the most strange contortions , as if there were some disturbing cause which varied the refrangibility of the hydrogen-line under certain conditions and pressures .
1869 .
] Observations of the Suln .
355 The D line of hydrogen ( ?
) also once bore a similar appearance .
Secondly , as to the other phenomena which accompanied this strange behaviour of the F line , and were apparently the cause of it .
In the same field of view with F , I recognized the barium-line at 1989'5 of Kirchhoff 's scale .
Passing on , the magnesium-lines and the enclosed nickel-iron-line were visible in the chromosphere .
The magnesilm was projected highl)er into the chromnosphere than the barium , and the.nickel or iron was projected higher than the magnesinm .
I carefully examined whether the other iron-lines were visible in the spectrum of the chronosphere ; they were not .
I also searched for the stronger barium-lines in the brighter portion of the spectrum ; but I did not find them , probably owing to the feeble elevation of the barium-vapour above the general level of the photosphere , which made the observation in this region a very delicate one .
I detected another chromosphere-line very near the iron-line at 1569'5 ( on the east side of it ) .
The sodium-lines were also visible .
Unfortunately clouds prevented my continuing these interesting observations ; but the action was evidently toningl down .
Here , then , we have ans uprush of Barium , Magnesium , ?
Nickel , and an unknown substtace from the photosphere into the chromosphere , and with the uprush a dense prominence ; accompanying the uprush we have changes of an enormous magnitude in the prominence ; and as the uprush ceases the prominence melts away .
As stated in the former part of this paper , the bariumand mgagnesiumlines were thinane t the corresponding Fraunhofer lines .
In connexion with this subject , I beg to be allowed to state that I have commenced a careful comparison of Kirchhoff 's map with the recently published one of Angstrim .
From wThat I have already seen , I believe other important conclusions , in addition to that before alluded to , may be derived from this comparison ; but I hesitate to say more at present , as I have not yet been able to compare Angstrim 's maps wiith the sun itself , or to examine the angular diameters of the sun registered at Greenwrich during the present century .
On the 14th inst .
I also succeeded in detecting the hydrogen-line in the extreme violet in the spectrum of the chromosphere .

