An Account of some Books .
I. NOVEAUXELEMENSDEGEOMETRI E : Or a Mathematical Treatise , entitled , New Elements of Geometry , printed at Paris in quarto , Anno 1667 .
Divided into 15 Books or Sections , containing A new Method and Order , and new Demonstrations of the most common Propositions in Geometry .
New ways to discover what Lines are incommensurable .
New measures of Angles not hitherto considered .
New ways of finding out , and demonstrating the Proportion of Lines .
Wherein we observe , that the Author delivers by a new Method and Order of his own , grounded upon Algebraical Elements , divers new Demonstrations of the more common Propositions , contained chiefly in the first six Books of Euclid 's Elements , and without recourse to Euclid , or any other Geometrical Writer , for proof of any thing asserted in those new Elements .
Whereto is added , the Solution of an Arithmetical Problem , which the Author calls Magic Squares , viz. A square of Cells being given , even or odd , filled with Numbers , either in an Arithmetical or Geometrical Progression ; so to dispose all those Numbers into another like square of Cells , that all the Numbers of each band , whether to the right or to the left , upwards or downwards , or diagonally , the Numbers given being in an Arithmetical Progression , added together , do always make the same Sum , and those in a Geometrical Progression , multiplied into one another , do always make the same Product .
II .
SYNOPSIS OPTICA , Auth. HONORATO FABRI , Soc. Jesu , Lugduni Gall .
in 4~ .
Ann. 1667 .
This Author pretends to have comprised in this Treatise , containing 58 Propositions , besides many Corollaries , all what hath been hitherto discovered in Opticks , and to have added thereto many curious and useful remarks , not mentioned in other Authors .
He begins with that part which is the most simple , and considers the straight Ray , called by the general name of Opticks ; where he shows , what is the cause of those surprising effects of the Perspective , which so pleasingly deceive the eye ; examining there many curious Experiments .
In the second part ( the Catoptricks , that have for their Object Rays , reflected ) he gives an account of all the Apparences in Looking-Glasses , Convex , Concave , Cylindrical , &amp;c. In the third ( the Dioptricks , that consider Rays refracted ) he treats largely of Telescopes of all sorts , Spherical , Elliptical , Hyperbolical ; as also of Microscopes , and the effects of all of them : Where , among many other particulars , he delivers and commends , as an invention of Eustachio Divini , the way of furnishing a Telescope , with two Eye-Glasses , outwardly flat , and inwardly convex , so as that they touch one another in the center of their convex Superficies .
In this part he explicates the Doctrine of Refractions and Parallaxes ; annexing several particulars concerning Comets , the Ring of Saturn , &amp;c. and concluding all with an Appendix , wherein having refuted the Spiral Hypothesis , devised to support the Ptolemaick System of the World , he advances a new one , judged by him very suitable to render an account of the Motion of the Celestial Bodies in the same System that supposes the Earths immobility , which he seems unwilling to desert .
III .
DE VI PERCUSSIONIS , JOH .
ALPHONS .
BORELLI .
Bononiae in 4~ .
1667 .
Whereas in the doctrine of Percussion several things are to be accurately distinguith 'd , as the Force percussive , the Motion , or theVelocity of the Percussion , and the Resisrance of the Body percussed ; and then an Estimate to be made of the Proportion of those three to one another .
This Author pretends to have both assigned that Difference , and demonstrated the Proportion ; adding , that though Galilaeo saw and acknowledged ( vid .
at the end of his fourth Dialogue De motu projectorum ) That the Force of Percussion was Insinite , or ( rather ) unlimited , yet he there referred discoursing upon that Argument to another opportunity ; which not having been performed by him ( for ought could be found by any of his Writings , either printed or Manuscript , which latter were purposely searched after his death to find such a Discourse ) our Author pretends , that that Proposition concerning the Infiniteness of the force of Percussion , not having been yet demonstrated by any , he hath in this Book resumed the whole matter concerning Percussion , and clearly demonstrated the true and genuine Nature of it , its Cause , Proprieties , and Effects .
In the doing of which , he takes occasion to discourse also of Gravity , Magnetism , Tremor of Bodies , Pendulums , &amp;c. All which , whilst the Reader is considering , the Author tells him , that he is making ready his other Books concerning the Motions of Animals .
IV .
NIC .
STENONIS MUSCULI DESCRIPTIO GEOMETRICA , Florentiae in 4 .
Ann. 1667 .
The Author of this Book declares , that his design in composing it was to show , that in a Muscle neither the Parts of it can be distinctly named , nor its Motion duly considered , unless the Doctrine thereof become a part of the Mathematicks .
And he is of opinion , that there is no other cause of the many Errors , which spoil the History concerning the Humane Body , than that Anatomy hath hitherto disdained the Laws of the Mathematicks : And therefore invites those that are studious in that part of Philosophy , to consider , that our Body is an Engine made up of a thousand subordinate Engines , whose true knowledge whoever thinks that it can be investigated without Mathematical assistance , must also think , that there is matter without Extension , and Body without Figure .
Hereupon he shows , that the very Fabric of the Muscles imposes a kind of necessity upon considering Writers to explicate them Mathematically : In conformity whereunto , he pretends to have found , that in every Muscle there is one Parallelepiped of Flesh , and two Tetragonal Prisms of Tendons , defining a Muscle to be a Body composed of divers Series 's , or ranks of Fibres , equal , like , and parallel among themselves , and so immediately placed upon one another , that whole Ranks are congruous to whole Ranks .
Here he explains the Dimensions of a Muscle , its Contraction and Strength ; and adds , that the use of this new discovery of the structure of the Muscles , is to demonstrate , That they may swell in their Contraction without the Accession of new Matter .
He subjoins a Letter to Monsieur Thevenot , in which , among other things , he alleges several Experiments , to show , that the motion of the Heart is like the motion of Muscles ; and answers those who pretend , that the true Fabric of the Heart hath already been observed heretofore ; and those likewise who think , that these new Observations of the Muscles are uncertain , concluding this Subject with an enumeration of the Particulars , yet remaining to be searched into in the History of the Muscles .
To all these things he adds two Narratives ; one , of a dissected Head of a Shark , which he calls Canis Carcharia , where he delivers many curious Observations of the Skin , Eye , Optic Nerves , Ocular Muscles , exceeding smallness of the Brain , as also of the Mouth , and strange Teeth of this Fim examining withal , whether the Glossopetrae be the Teeth of this Creature or Stones produced by the Earth ; in which Controversy he takes their part , who maintain , that those and divers other substances sound in the Earth , are parts of the Bodies of Animals , and endeavours to prove , that such sorts of Earth may be the sediments of Water , and such Bodies , the parts of Animals carried down together with those Sediments , and in progress of time reduced to a stony hardness.* *This Subject Mr. Hook hath also discoursed of at large in several of his public Lectures , founded by Sir John Cutler ; which Lectures he read about two years since in Gresham College , in the presence of many Learned and Curious persons ; which also had been long since made public , had not other indispensable Affairs hindred him from taking care of the Press : where he hath not only shown the Origin of these Glossopetrae , but of all other curiously figured Stones and Minerals ; together with that of Mountains , Lakes , Islands , &amp;c. tho from a somewhat differing Hypothesis , of which the Curious may shortly receive a further account .
The other Narrative is of a Female Dog-Fish , dissected also by himself , where do occur no less remarkable Observations than in the former , both of the parts in the Head , and of those in the Body ; as touching the small weight of the Brain of this Fish , compared to the weight of its Body ; several little Fishes found in the Stomach , untouched by any Teeth ; the Ureters , the Ovarium , and Ovidictus , where he digresses to show , Mulierum testes esse Ovario analogos , and refers for further proof of this to his intended Treatise , which is , to give an account de partium Genitalium Analogia .

