474 Mr. C. S. Sherrington .
[ June 16 , XXXI .
" Note on the Anatomy of Asiatic Cholera as exemplified in Cases occurring in Italy in 1886 .
" By Charles S. Sherrington , M.B. , M.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received June 16 , 1887 .
Last summer when cholera again appeared in Italy I determined to seize the opportunity that seemed to offer itself for re-examining the disease , especially with regard to some questions raised by the work of the previous year .
Although , on grounds which I have already detailed in a letter to the Secretary of the Society , Professor Michael Foster , the conditions imposed by the state of the country quite precluded the carrying out there and then of trustworthy experiments with the living contents of the dejecta and of the viscera of the cholera patients , still it was possible to collect a satisfactory amount of anatomical material .
The results in this direction of an expedition , a part of the expenses of which were generously borne by the Society , were promised to the Society in the letter above alluded to .
The investigation of the material has now been completed , and may briefly be stated as follows:\#151 ; The material collected consists in all of specimens and preparations made from twenty-five fatal cases .
Of these cases twenty-two were indubitable examples of rapidly fatal cholera asiatica .
These were obtained exclusively out of the Province of Puglia .
The remaining three cases were from Yenetia , and were in the opinion of myself and Dr. Rouse , who in Yenetia assisted me , not examples of true cholera .
At each autopsy the specimens taken for preservation and subsequent detailed microscopical investigation were portions of the stomach and intestinal canal at various points , of the thoracic and abdominal organs , and of the mesenteric glands .
From the contents of the stomach and intestine preparations for the microscope were made at the same time by the Ehrlich-Koch method .
From the vomit and dejecta of six moribund patients cover-glass preparations were also made in the same manner .
With regard to the hardening of the tissues for microscopical examination , the portions of the tissue preserved were at the autopsy carefully placed separately into specimen glasses containing absolute alcohol , and the alcohol was at the end of six hours renewed , the specimen being at the same time quickly cut into pieces never more than 3 mm. thick .
The alcohol was then changed at the end of twelve hours , and again at the end of twenty-four , then not again for a week .
The microscopical investigation has been carried on in the laboratory of Professor Yirchow at Berlin ; in his debt I stand for much kindness and liberality , 1887 .
] Chi the Anatomy of Asiatic Cholera .
One of the main objects of the renewed inquiry was to ascertain the presence in , or the absence from , the anatomy of cases of cholera from another epidemic than the Spanish of certain appearances that the microscopical preparations from the Spanish epidemic of 1885 had .
presented .
The appearances referred to were described in a Report made to the Society in June of last year , and printed in the Proceedings of the Society for that year , so that it is unnecessary for me to repeat them here .
The more so since in this year 's work I have completely failed after minute , long and repeated search , with the use of good lenses ( new apochromatic system of Zeiss ) , and after employment of various methods of staining including that by which the Spanish preparations were coloured , to find any trace of the above-mentioned appearances in any of the material obtained in Italy .
Neither in the specimens of the tissues nor of the intestinal fluid post mortem , nor of the vomit or dejecta during life is any trace of them to be found .
Any view that suggested itself of a causal connexion of them with cholera must therefore meet the difficulty that they form no constant anatomical feature of the disease .
With regard to the presence of comma-shaped bacilli in my material , such forms have been found in altogether thirteen of the cases from Puglia , although always with difficulty , and seven times only after extremely patient and rigorous search .
The method found most satisfactory for their detection has been that of Loflier with a methylene-blue solution made according to the receipt given by him .
The chief difficulties of the investigation have lain in the facts , that the comma-bacilli are among the bacilli which are earliest decolorised by the solutions for removing the excess of stain , that the morphological characters of the comma-bacilli are not so distinctive as to make their recognition from bacilli of some other species always certain , and that in none of my specimens have I found them free from admixture with other micro-organisms , and in none in very great abundance .
Having only the morphological characters of the bacilli for criterion , I have compared them always with specimens from pure cultivations of Koch 's comma-bacillus freshly prepared for the purpose , and I have only accepted them as such when they have agreed with the latter standard form .
Of the cases in which the comma-bacilli have been found , in three they may be called " fairly numerous , " in five " sparse , " and in five " very scanty .
" The bacilli have never been found in any other situation than in the wall of the alimentary canal , and in the wall only in the most superficial portion of the tissue , in the mucosa .
The three cases in which they are fairly numerous are characterised clinically by the fatal ending having supervened without any stage of febrile reaction , and anatomically by the changes in the wall of the intestine being confined to partial denudation from epithelium of the On the Anatomy of Asiatic Cholera .
[ June 16 , villi , especially , to the presence of an excessive number of leucocytes in the meshes of the mucosa and submucosa , and to evident engorge-ment of the portal venules .
The comma-shaped bacilli lie in the fundi of the tubular glands of , especially , the ileum , and in the tissue in which those glands are imbedded in the immediate vicinity of the glands .
Their distribution is not uniform , but is patchy .
They occur with various other forms of bacteria in the same situation .
Generally of these other forms some have penetrated more deeply into the tissue than have the comma-bacilli ; especially is this true of certain fine , straight bacilli resembling morphologically the bacterium eoli commune of Escherich .
In the other cases in which comma-bacilli are found , the signs of acute severe inflammation are more obvious , many of the denuded villi are in part necrotic .
Shallow sloughs occupy the surface of the mucous membrane , together with small extravasations and patches of " coagulation-necrosis .
" Here the comma-shaped bacilli are within the mucosa , and with them occur a multitude of micrococci and bacilli of various shape and size .
Although in two of these cases bacilli are to be seen in the distended venules , ' I have in no instance found comma-bacilli within any blcod-vessel .
Of those cases in which comma-bacilli have not been found , the impression left upon me is that in some of them it is possible that still further examination of a still more extended series of preparations from them might have revealed comma-bacilli in the wall of the intestine in some of them .
They are all cases that , although of rapidly fatal issue , had passed into a stage of febrile reaction .
In them often the surface of the ileum and large intestine was thickly set with little patches of superficial sloughing , and microscopical preparations made through these areas forcibly recall preparations of a mucous membrane diphtheritically inflamed .
The attached face of the slough is occupied frequently by an almost continuous sheet of bacteria , and bacteria infiltrate the inflamed submucosa , and often the superficial regions of the muscularis .
In three of these cases micro-organisms are present in the blood-vessels , more especially numerously in the venules of the portal system .
With regard to the preparations made from freshly evacuated dejecta and vomit from living cases , the six cases examined reveal comma-bacilli in the stools in five .
There is no evidence of blood in these five stools , but blood is mixed with the intestinal fluid in the case in which no comma-bacilli are seen .
The vomit also in three of the cases shows a small number of comma-bacilli .
In none of the preparations do the comma-bacilli make up more than a small fraction of all the bacterial forms present .
With regard to the statement by Cohnheim that the shedding of the intestinal epithelium is purely and merely a process setting in 1887 .
] On certain Definite Integrals .
post mortem , this , which has always been denied by Virchow and others , is negatived by the occurrence in the stools here examined of an abundance of epithelial cells , often very slightly differing in appearance from the normal .
Occasionally they are coherent as groups of four and five ; there are , however , no finger-shaped casts of complete villi .
The cases of a doubtful nature from Venetia have not disclosed any comma-bacilli under microscopical examination .
In one of them the ulcers present in the ileum , which to the naked eye resembled those of enteric fever , pass deeply into the thickness of the muscular coat of the intestine , a condition to which I have only once seen any close approach in Asiatic cholera .
XXXII .
" On certain Definite Integrals .
No. 15 .
" By W. H. L. Bussell , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1887 .
Mr. Fox Talbot 's researches on the comparison of transcendents are well known .
The following are founded on the same principle , applied in a different manner :\#151 ; be two equations connecting the variables , y , and z. Then we can find x and y in terms of z , x and z in terms of y , y and z in terms of Let\#151 ; a1a,3 + 51y3 + c123 = ex , a2\#171 ; 3+62y3-fc2z3 = e2 , ( * ) .
Or if\#151 ; 61c2 \lt ; q\amp ; 2 \#151 ; Aj , C]\amp ; 2 aic2 \#151 ; B ] .
, \#151 ; Oj ; and also \#174 ; i\#174 ; 2 \#174 ; 2\#174 ; i \#151 ; A2 , ei^2 \#174 ; 2^i \#151 ; B2 , e^c2 \#151 ; C2 ; we shall have yyry y(B2+A^3 ) , z

