1890 .
] On Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential .
89 is really different in important respects from the enclosure of a space by downgrowth of large folds , though ultimately no doubt the two contrasted modes of formation come to the same thing so far as the more obvious morphological relations are concerned .
The mode of formation which really occurs in is readily harmonised with the existence of the post-atrioporal extension of the atrium which gradually tapers to a fine csecal canal .
It also gives us an essentially different view of the region called " epipleur " by Lan-kester , and generally so designated , from that which Rolph 's theory necessitated .
That portion of the epiplenr into which the myotomes of the body-wall extend is seen now to be no downgrowth , no extension or fold .
It is the original unchanged body-wall which hounds the sides of the animal 's body in front of the atriopore , just as much as it does behind .
The only new growth in the atrial region which takes part in the limitation of the surface is the sub-atrial growth formed by the two little horizontal folds which floor in the atrium when it is a mere canal .
These in the adult are represented by the limited region of longitudinally pleated ventral wall between the two metapleura .
Lastly , the formation of the atrium as a narrow groove which closes , sinks into , and expands within the body of Amphioxus , is much more readily comparable to what is known of the formation of the atrial chamber in the Ascidians than is the Kowalewsky-Rolph scheme .
In the Ascidian a pair of in-pushings are formed , each with a circular orifice of invagination ; they expand within the body , fuse with one another to form one cavity , and one of the circular orifices disappears .
In AmpMoxuswe have a single in-pushing with a longitudinal orifice of invagination , which closes as the invagination forms , excepting at its hindermost border , and then expands to a greatly increased volume .
The comparison of the so-called epipleura of Amphioxus with the opercula of Fishes has only a remote morphological basis , and probably no genetic relationship exists between these two structures .
IV .
" On a Method of determining the Value of Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential by means of the Capillary Electrometer .
" By George J. Burch , B.A. Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1890 .
In 1882 a paper by Professor Burdon Sanderson* appeared in the Biologisches Centralblatt , ' in which an account was given of the * \#174 ; urtl'n Sanderson , " Die elektrischen Erscheinungen am Dionaeablatt , " * Biologisches Centralblatt , ' 15 Oct. , 1882. .
yO Mr. G. J. Burch .
On determining the Value of [ May 22 , employment of photography for the production by means of the capillary electrometer of records of the electrical phenomena accompanying the excitation of the leaf of .
Other physiologists have availed themselves of this method for the purpose of determining the times at which the electrical cha nges in living tissues begin and end , but no complete investigation has been made of the relation between the curves obtained and the amount of variation of the difference of potential of which they are the expression .
A series of experiments which I undertook two years ago , at the suggestion of Professor Burdon Sanderson , for the purpose just indicated , has led to the discovery of a method by which it is possible to determine from the photographed curve the difference of potential corresponding to any part of its course .
I propose in this preliminary note to state briefly the experimental results upon which the method is based , to describe the application of it in its simplest form to the analysis of a photographed curve , and , finally , to indicate the corrections which have to be applied to the approximation thus obtained .
I. The Normal Curve .
The magnified image of the capillary , pointing vertically down* wards , is projected through a slit upon a sensitive plate travelling horizontally at a uniform rate .
During the passage of the plate behind the slit a sudden permanent difference of potential of known value is introduced between the terminals of the electrometer , causing the meniscus to move from its original position of rest to another level , the movement being recorded on the plate by the curved outline of the shaded portion .
This will be referred to as the " normal curve , " and the movement as a " normal excursion .
" ( 1 .
) By direct photographic evidence I have proved that there is no measurable delay between the communication of a difference of potential and the commencement of the movement of the meniscus.(^ .
) Under ordinary circumstances the meniscus ceases to move the instant the source of electromotive force is withdrawn .
[ See also ( 7)3 .
( ^ .
) ^-he normal curve is of the same form and dimensions so far as it extends , no matter what may have been the difference of potential which produced it .
The accompanying diagram illustrates a normal curve taken with a large resistance , and low down in the capillary , so that variations of resistance during the excursion [ see ( 7 ) ] may be neglected .
The entire curve corresponds to a difference of potential of 0*01 volt .
The portion above the line through 5 is the entire normal curve for 0 005 volt , and the portion above P is the curve for 0*00195 volt .
1890 .
] Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential .
O y \#151 ; axis of y , graduated in toVo 'f a v'lt .
Ot =maxis of t , and asymptote of the curve .
PN and P1N1 = ordinates at the points P and Px respectively .
PT and PjTj = tangents .
NT and NjTj = sub tangents .
[ NT - NjT , .
] ( 4 .
) The time required by the meniscus to traverse half the distance through which the sudden introduction of a permanent difference of potential would cause it to move , is , within wide limits , independent of the amount of that difference .
This time may be conveniently referred to as the " time of half-charge .
" It is one of the constants of an instrument , and is affected only [ with the exceptions indicated in ( 7 ) ] by the external resistance of the circuit .
( 5 .
) The above conditions are fulfilled if the equation to the normal curve is of the form log = ct , where y is the vertical discs tance of a point P upon the curve from its asymptote ( i.e. , the level at which the meniscus finally comes to rest ) and t is the horizontal distance of P from a point O upon the asymptote , which is taken as the origin of coordinates .
There is a well-known characteristic of all curves having this equation , by which they can be easily re-cognised , namely , that the subtangent NT , or intercept upon the asymptote between the tangent PT of any point P upon the curve and its ordinate PN , is of constant length .
I have accordingly measured the length of the subtangent at various points upon a number of normal curves , and find it to be constant for each electrometer , except so far as it is altered by the total resistance of the circuit and the variations of resistance , \amp ; c. , which will be referred to 111 ( 7 ) .
The normal curve is therefore approximately the logarithmic curve .
92 On Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential .
[ May 22 , II .
Curves produced by Rapid Variation , of , of the Difference of Potential between the Terminals .
( 6 .
) From ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , and ( 3 ) it follows that in all cases the velocity with which the meniscus is moving at any instant is that with which it would start if the zero line were moved to the level then occupied by the meniscus , and the difference of potential existing at the time between the terminals of the electrometer were suddenly introduced and made permanent .
Thus the total indicated difference of potential is made up of two parts , viz , , the difference represented by the distance through which the meniscus has already moved , and that indicated by the velocity with which it is still moving .
This being so , there are two ways in which the actual difference of potential at the moment corresponding to any point upon the photographed curve may be estimated .
The first is to compare it with a normal curve , on which a point must be found of which the tangent coincides in direction with the tangent at the required point of the curve under examination .
The vertical distance of this point upon the normal curve from its asymptote will express the remainder of the difference of potential , provided that the resistance in circuit was in both cases the same .
The second method depends upon the property of the logarithmic curve mentioned above .
Upon an enlarged copy of the curve to be investigated , points are taken corresponding to equal intervals of time ( e.g. , O'OOL sec. ) .
Through each of these points a tangent and an ordinate are drawn , and produced , upwards if the curve is rising , or downwards if it is falling , until the horizontal distance between the tangent and the corresponding ordinate is equal to the length of the subtangent of the normal curve .
The level at which this is the case is that to which the meniscus would have risen or fallen , had the difference of potential between the terminals at that instant been made permanent , and is in fact the position of the asymptote of the corresponding normal excursion .
Consequently , a line touching the ends of all the ordinates so produced will represent the variations of difference of potential during the experiment , upon the same scale as the normal curve .
( 7 .
) This result is only an approximation ; to make it accurate three kinds of corrections have to be made , as follows :\#151 ; ( ct .
) Calibration Errors.\#151 ; The capillary may not be of equal sensitiveness throughout the part employed .
In this case the electrical capacity of the electrometer viewed as a condenser will also vary with the position of the meniscus in the tube , so that the correction is difficult to make , and should be avoided by selecting a suitable instrument .
( b. ) Overshooting.\#151 ; In instruments with small internal resistance , 1890 .
] A Bacteria-killing Globulin .
and in which the friction is reduced to a minimum , the mercury column appears to acquire a certain momentum , so that the statement in ( 3 ) no longer applies , and the instrument is not dead beat in its action .
It may , however , be made so by the introduction of a sufficiently large resistance .
There is also another form of overshooting , due to the elasticity of the meniscus itself , the effect of which upon the curve is distinct , and different .
Both these forms of error are rare .
( c. ) Variations of Resistance during an Excursion.\#151 ; The principal seat of the internal resistance of the capillary electrometer being the slender column of dilute acid in the tube , the length of which varies with the movement of the meniscus , it is evident that the total resistance must vary during an excursion .
The effect of this variation of resistance may be detected in excursions of considerable extent , and the amount of it measured .
I have found that the error due to this cause is seldom more in practice than one per cent. The method of applying these corrections , together with a description of the apparatus employed , and a discussion of the points of theory involved , I hope to publish at no distant date .
The investigations of which the results are given above were made in the Physiological Laboratory , Oxford , the resources of which were placed at my disposal for the purpose by Professor Burdon Sanderson .
V. " A Bacteria-killing Globulin .
" By E. H. Hankin , B.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge , Junior George Henry Lewes Student .
Communicated by Professor Roy , F.R.S. ( From the Pathological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) Received May 21 , 1890 .
The results described in the present paper were arrived at by the author while trying to discover the nature of the substance to which the bacteria-killing powers of the blood serum were due.* * * S The results obtained by hTuttall , f Buchner , J and hTissenS have shown that the blood serum , independently of any cellular elements , has a certain power of killing bacteria .
The method used by these * My work was aided by grants from the British .
Medical Association and from the John Lucas Walker Fund .
t " Experiments liber die bakterienfeindlichen Einfliisse des thierischen Korpers , " ' Zeitschrift fur Hygiene , ' vol. 4 , 1888 , p. 353 .
t " Ueber die bakterientodtende Wirkung des zellenfreien Blutserums , " ' Central-blatt fur Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde , ' vol. 5 , p. 817 , and vol. 6 , p. 1 , 1889 .
S " Sir Kenntniss der bakterienvernichtenden Eigenschaf t des Elutes , " * Zeitschrift fur Hygiene , ' vol. 6 , 1889 , p. 487 .

