]\gt ; Spectroscopic Investigations in connection with the -4ctire of Nitrogen.\mdash ; I. Spectrum of the Afterglou .
By A. FOWLER , F.B.S. , Assistant Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science and Technology , and the Hon. B. J. }STRUTT , , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science and Technology , South Kensington .
( Received May 20 , \mdash ; Read May 25 , 1911 .
) Method of Observation .
The method of producing and isolating the nitrogen adopted in the observations dealt with in the present paper was that described by one of us in the recent Bakerian lecture .
* A continuous stream of nitrogen was passed at low pressure through the exciting discharge tube , from which it was drawn into a side tube which was viewed end-on through a quartz window .
The source of nitrogen was the commercial compressed gas , but it was purified to the required degree by through a tube chips of phosphorus and other tubes containing caustic potash and phosphorus pentoxide .
The purer the the more brilliant was the luminosity of the afterglow ; a small amount of oxygen in the nitrogen sufficed to destroy the deep yellow glow , and only a bluish-white luminosity was then visible .
Three spectrographs have been employed in the investigation ; ( 1 ) a small quartz spectrograph , giving a linear dispersion of cm .
from to a larger quartz spectrograph giving cm .
for the same extent of spectrum ; ( 3 ) a Littrow spectrograph , with a prism of light flint glass , giving 16 cm .
for the region 7000 to 3800 .
For the determination of wave-lengths , comparison spectra of copper ( with impurities of lead , etc. ) were chiefly used .
General Description of the Spectrnm .
As seen and rapbed with instruments of small dispersion , the spectrum of the afterglow produced by the above method appears to be identical with that described by Lewis .
The luminosity , however , is so great , and its maintenance so easy , that considerable dispersion may be employed , and long exposures given , so that the spectrum can now be examined in much greater detail .
J. Strutt , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , vol. 8 p. 219 .
' Astrophys .
Jourlt 1904 , vol. 20 , p. 49 . .
A. Fowler and Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ May 20 The spectrum may be convenient]y considered to consist of three groups of bands , namely:\mdash ; Group .\mdash ; Three very conspicuous bands in the red , yellow , and green , with the htest parts about wave-lengths , 5804 , and 5407 .
Another faint band 5054 also to this group .
series of 11 bands in the violet and ultra-violet , extending from 4312 to 2503 .
These are degraded towards the red , and have double heads .
Other fainter series of hands of similar structure also belong to thia group .
series of flutings , egraded to the more refrangible corresponding in every particular with I)eslandres ' " " third positive\ldquo ; group of nitrogen bands .
These have double-double heads and extend from 3009 to 2155 .
The stronger members of the second positive group of nitrogen bands raded to the , and extending from about 5000 to ) appear in the spectrum of the afterglow , but they may have been introduced by internal reflections of the ] ight from the exciting discharge tube , or by stray discharges in the afterglow tube itself , as Lewis did not find them by his method of observing the afterglow only ) the discharge was interrupted .
The first head of the cyano , en band at 3883 was frequently present , but it may be accounted for by a slight carbon impurity , * and is not to be regarded as a part of the afterglow spectrum of pure nitrogen .
The presence of carbon compoumds was sometimes shown in another way by the line of cal.bon at in the spectrum of the , tube when the condenser was in circuit .
of Group The three barlds of roup , in the less refrangible part of the visible spectrum , are the most striking feature of the lowo spectrum when the nitrogen is as pure as possible .
Iheir true characters and relationships were not revealed umtil they were raphed with the comparatively great dispersion of the Littrow .
It was then found that their structure was identical with that of the ' first positive\ldquo ; bands of nitrogen , and further investigation revealed the previously unsuspected fact that they are also identical in position with hands of nitrogen .
This result is shown by the photographic comparison iven in Plate 10 , fig. 1 , which indicates the extraordinary selection of first positive ba\amp ; nacute ; ds for special enhancement in the afterglow .
It will be seen that the afterglow bands * See Stl'utt , loc. , p. 228 .
1911 .
] llodification oVitrogen .
are not merely a survival of the htest of the firsG positive band represent a special development of the more rible parts of the three groups into which the first positive spectrum is visibly divided .
The positions of the various bands are roughly shown by the ] scale marked on the photographs .
Von Helm 's values for the nitrogen bands , the wave-lengths and oscillation frequencies of the first heads of the principal bands which occur in the spectrum as indicated in Table I. Table I.\mdash ; The Visual Bands of the After , ( Group ) .
Green Green { *Measure by Hasselberg .
Identified by visual The requency differences and second differences the heads of the bands are given in the and fifth columns of the table , and similar figures are obtained for the other corresponding heads .
Tbese differences are of interest as showing that the bands not been selected at random from the numerous series which build up the first positive spectrum of nitrogen , but that they COIlstitute three definite series of the usual character .
They are , in fact , identical vitl ) three consecutive series in Cuthbertson 's eIuenC of the first positive bands of nitrogen in 13 series , The faint bands less refrangible than 6322 shown in the photograph probably do not form part of the true afterglow spectrum , but represent part of the normal first positive spectrum accidentally superposed on that of the afterglow .
's ' Handb .
der ) vol. p. 828 .
Phil. Mag 1902 , [ 6 ] , vol. p. 348 .
Mr. A. Fowler and Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ May 20 , Series 3 .
Series4 .
Series6 .
Series7 .
Series Series 16163 The association of the bands in the afterglow suggests that of the various possible ements of the first positive bands the horizontal series in the above table are perhaps specially significant .
It will be observed that , the frequency scale , a of one of the horizontal series by an appropriate amount will result in its superposition on one or other of the remaining series , thus resembling the five series into which the second ositive bands of nitrogen have been divided by Deslandres .
* The relation between the bands is shown in another way by the application of Deslandres ' general formula for the first positive bands,1 namely:\mdash ; The first horizontal series of the above table is obtained when and , 43 , 44 ; the second when and , 43 , 43 , 44 ; and the third when and , 41 , 42 , 43 .
The bands shown in fig. lb which are less efraugible than 6322 do not belong to either of these series , and , as already pointed out , they probably do not form part of the afterglow spectrum , but have been introduced by accident .
lt thus appears that , in the less refrangible part of the spectrunl , the afterglow shows no new bands , and only differs from that of the ordinary discharge nitrogen in the concentration of the luminous energy into a small selection of the numerous series into which the first positive spectrum can be divided .
It should be noted also that first positive bands of nitrogen are reatly 1educed in intensity in the condensed discharge , which generates the afterglow , as compared with the uncondensed discharge , so that the artly abolished first positive hands may be considered to reappear in the , bnt with greatly modified intensities .
Apart from the modification of intensities , for which we can offer no explanation at present , this observation is in accordance with the view that nitrogen is partially dissociated in the condensed discharge , and that the afterglow is produce , during the of ordinary nitrogen .
'Comptes Bendus , ' 1887 , vol. 104 , p. 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1902 , vol. 134 , p. 74 Mr. A. Fowler and .
R. J. Strutt .
[ May 20 , second difference is about equal to that which appears to be commo to the first and second positive nitrogen series , but otherwise the series is quite distinct , and the have a strncture which is different from that of any of the other bands attributed to The oscillation frequencies of the more oible heads of the bands are closely represented by the formula where ?
has values rano 5 to 65 .
The calculated from the observed values by amounts which only once reach as much as three units .
In adclition to this chief series of bands , are several fainter ones of similar structure , particulars of which are fiven in Table III ( see also Plate 10 , figs. and ) .
These also form series , which may be conveniently designated , etc. , as in the last column of the table .
The intensities are roughly on the same scale as those of the main series in the prsvious table .
Table III.\mdash ; Fainter Bands of Group * This heacl is hidden by the mercury line , accidentally present , and its position been estimated by co1lsideration of the intervals rating the component heads .
These secondary series are related to the chief series and to each other in the same way that the constituent series of the first or ' second positiye groups are related , such that a general displacement of one series by the proper amount will superpose it upon one of the other series .
This is shown in he following arrangement of the frequencies:\mdash ; 1911 .
] Active Nitrogen .
39404 It follows that the , formula for the main series may be adapted to the secondary series by an alteration of one of the constants thus\mdash ; Series The values of for the several vertical columns are shown in the tabular arrangement above .
Series fails to show the band corresponding to , although there is no other band at this place which could mask it .
The several series of tJroup must clearly be regarded as forming a connected system , but they have no evident relation to the other series of nitrogen bands .
As in the case of the group , however , the group does not represent a spectrum which exists exclusively in the .
The bands were observed faintly by Lewis in the ordinary through nitric oxide , and our own experiments have indicated that they occur under suitable conditions in similar disoharges through air or .
This is illustrated in the case of air in Plate fig. .
The original negatives show the five bands of group ( 3377 to 2748 ) and the four bands of the series , and it is remarkable that the latter are relatively more developed than the chief series in the air discharge .
The bands of group foumd in association with the third positive bands of , dealt with in the next section , and , as in the case of those bands , we have not found sufficient evidence co show that but nitrogen is necessary for their development .
The general result of the ation of the group of bands is to show that , like roup , they tend to disappear from the spectrum of the exciting discharge , and they reappear with somewhat modified intensities in the afterglow .
Mr. A. Fowler and Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ May 20 , The of As already remarked , the third group of afterglow bands is identical with the third positive band spectrum of nitrogen .
This is indicated by the photographs reproduced Plate 10 , fig. 3 , which show the spectrum of the afterglow in comparison with that of air .
For convenience of reference , the positions of the less refrangible heads , from the data given by Schniederjost , indicated in Table Table \mdash ; Chief Heads of Third Positive Bands of These bands occur strongly in several other sources besides the afterglow and the uncondensed discharge in air or nitrogen .
They are found in the spectrum of an uncondensed spark in air at atmospheric pressure , in the arc between metallic poles , in the flame of cyanogen , and in the flame of ammonia burning in oxygen .
Deslandrcs has suggested that they may be due to an oxide of developed by traces of oxygen in the case of a supposed nitrogen tube\mdash ; as he found them to disappear from the spectrum when the nitrogen had ' been passed heated sodium .
The absence of the bands from the discharge in nitrogen is also regarded by Lewis as their oxide origin , the idea being that the bands vanish because of the decomposition of the compound which is thought to produce them .
We have not been able to convince ourselves , however , that these third positive bands require anything more than nitrogen for their production .
With all precautions to exclude oxygen , bands have always been present in the afterglow spectrum , even when the nitrogen was passed through melted phosphorus before it entered the tube .
In the discharge tube itself , it was found that the presence or absence of the bands seemed to depend only upon the intensity of the discharge .
In the condensed discharge , and in the uncondensed discharge , if of sufficient intensity , the bands in question are wanting , but with other things remaining the same they made their appearance when the strength of the discharge was sufficiently reduced .
It would thus appear that the third positive bands are more sensitive to changes in the discharge than the of the first and second positive groups , and are the first to be abolished as the discharge approaches that necessary to produce the line spectrum .
'Zeitsch . .
wiss .
Photog 1904 , vol. 2 , p. ) .
19 ] ] .
] Active of Nitrogen .
The general behaviour of these bands in relation to the afterglow is very similar to that of the and .
They occur in the uncondensed discharge , disappear in the stronger discharge which produces the afterglow , and reappear in the afterglow ; they differ from the other two groups , however , in that there is no notable change in the relative intensities of the component bands .
Spectrum of Exciting Discharge .
It seemed important to compare the spectrum of the condensed discharge which develops the afterglow with that of the uncondensed discharge which ordinarily fails to do so .
In the first place it was foumd that a discharge iving only the line spectrum does not excite the afterglow .
A special tube was constructed with a very narrow capillary .
The electrodes projected almost into this capillary , so as to avoid any development of the band spectrum in the wider palts of the tube , which might have made the result ambiguous .
A current of pure nitrogen was passed through this tube , excited by the condensed discharge , but no afterglow was observed .
The same current of rarefied nitrogen passed on its way to the pump through a wider tube capable of giving the band spectrum .
When the discharge was transferred to this tube , the afterglow was well developed .
This served as a check , to prove that the failure to obtain the in the previous instance had not been due to any defect in the quality of the gas .
It was accordingly only necessary to the modifications of the band spectrum which occur in passing from a discharge of moderate intensity without condenser to a discharge with the condenser .
It was already known that the effect of the condenser is to reduce the intensity of the first positive bands , to brighten the second positive bands , and to abolish those of the third positive group .
We have found in addition that a new series of seven bands in the ultra-violet appears in the spectrum of the condensed discharge .
There appears to be no previous record of these bands in the observations made by Deslandres and others , but there seems to be no reason to doubt that they belong to nitrogen .
For purposes of reference , this series may be conveniently called the " " fourth positive\ldquo ; group of nitrogen .
As photographed with the larger quartz spectrograph Plate , each of the fourth positive hands shows five principal heads , of which the most refrangible is the in each case , and the middle one next in order of brightness .
The flutings are degraded towards the more refrangible end of the spectrum .
The wave-lengths of the bands , their relative intensities , oscillation frequencies , and frequency differences are shown in Table 1911 .
] Active Vitrogen .
The difference is constant within the limits of error , and 1ltmerically , at least , the fourth positive bands are related to the second positive as the several series of the latter are related to each other .
The figures in the first and second cohlmns of the foregoing table may be respectively calculated from the formulae here m from 54 to 60 .
The positive hands appear to be the most characteristic feature of the spectrum of the discharge which produces the afterglow , but a change of state in the nitrogen is also indicated by the modified intensities of the other three positive groups .
The bands are also found , but with less intensity , in the condensed discharge a tube air , and if they are characteristic of the gas , it may be presumed , in accordance with other experiments , that the absence of the nitrogen afterglow in air tubes is due to the presence of oxygen .
( 1 ) The paper gives a detailed account of the spectrum of the afterglow of pure nitrogen , with wave-length determinations of sufficient accuracy to indicate the series relationships of the various bands .
( 2 ) The characteristic bands of the afterglow ill the red , yellow , and green are complex groups which have been found to be identical with some of the bands the sequence ' as the first positive group of .
They represent a special development of three of the numerous series into which the first positive bands have been divided .
( 3 ) The second group of bands , extending from 4312 to 2503 , corresponds with a group of faint bands which occur in the uncondensed discharge in air or nitrogen , and the third group is identical with the third positive group of nitrogen bands , as previously by Lewis .
The most characteristic feature of the condensed discharge tt'hich Active Modification of Nitrogen . .
1 , produces the fterglow is a series of seven complex bands , occupying the region 2904 to 2256 , which have not previously been recorded as belonging to nitrogen .
It is suggested that these should be designated the " " fourth positive\ldquo ; group of nitrogen bands .
( 5 ) No is when the discharge is such as to give only the line spectrum of The authors are indebted to Mr. H. Shaw , A.RC .
S. , for valuable assistance in the computation of wave-lengths , and in enlarging the for reproduction .
I)ESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Uncondensed discharge in nitrogen , showing the first positive bands in the red , yellow , and green .
I .
Afterglow bands of Group , showing reIation to first sitive bands . .
Uncondensed discharge in air , violet and ultra-violet region , showing second positive bands of nitrogen , part of the third positive , etc. .
Afterglow bands of Group , which are also seen faintly in the spectrum of air , .
Uncondensed discharge in air , ultra-violet region , showing the third positive bands of nitrogen , etc. .
Afterglow bands of Group and Group ( third positive nitrogen ) . .
Uncondensed discharge nitrogen , ] -violet region . .
Condeused discharge in nitrogen , which excites the afterglow , showing the new ' ' fourth positive\ldquo ; bands .
1 and lb were taken with the Littrow spectrograph and the remainder with the larger quartz spectrograph .
The scales attached to the photographs are strictly only applicable to the upper spectrum in each pair , owing to difficuIties of mounting .

