VIII .
" New Compounds produced by the substitution of Nitrogen for Hydrogen .
" By P. GRIESS .
ComunUnicated by Dr. IIOFMANN .
Received July 24 , 1860 .
In several previous n-otes I have called attentioni to a peculiar double acid which is formed by the action of nlitrous acid upon amidobeiizoic acid , C14 I-J1 , NN204+ 1-1 N02==C14H1 , N3 04+ 2I-I0 ttR ---1 ; 0()-16 ; C=12 , &amp;c. OT.( ) 11 X*2 s the constitution of which , as far as my experimenits go , muay be represented by the formula [ 07 ( 113 N2 ' ) 0 ] C7 ( 1 12 N)0 ] AO 12 There are not less than three other compounds known which enmpirically may be represented by the same formula as amidobenzoic acid , viz. nitrotoluol , salicylamide , and anthranilic acid .
The two former substances differ from amidobenzoic acid both physically and chemically in a marked manner ; anthranilic acid , on the other hand , is so closely allied to the benzoic derivative , that special experiments were required to distinguish these two bodies .
Gerland , when he submitted the two acids to Piria 's wrell-kinowni reaction , observed that both are converted by nitrous acid into non-nitrogenated acids , which , although still isomeric , essentially differ in their properties ; amidobenzoic acid being transformed into a new acid , -oxybenzoic acid , whilst anthranilic acid yields salicylic acid .
It appeared of some interest to try whether the substitution of nitrogen for hydrogen in anthranilic acid would furnish a compound isomeric with the double acid obtained from arnidobenzoic acid .
A current of nitrous acid , when passed into a cold alcoholic solution of anthranilic acid , rapidly transforms this substance into a compound crystallizing in white prisms , which is easily obtained by allowing the alcohol to evaporate at the common temperature .
The new body is extremely soluble in water , insoluble in ether .
By analysis it was proved to contain Ci H1 Na 07* The new compound is thus seen to be far from isomeric with the derivative of amidobenzoic acid produced under similar circumstances , with which , in fact , it shows no analogy whatever .
I have not yet arrived at a definite view regarding the molecular construction of this body ; nevertheless its deportment with water shows even now that the nitrogen in it exists in two different forms .
Gently heated with water , the new compound disengages torrents of nitrogen ; on cooling , the liquid solidifies into a crystalline mass of salicylic acid , free nitric acid remaining in solution .
This metamorphosis is represented by the equation Oll 11D N9 07 + 211X2 ?
-N1 ?
ElNt0 2+2 711 0]N,2 New body .
Salicylic acid .
which has beeii controlled by quaintitative experimeints .
The idea suggests itself to assuime one-fifth of the nitrogeil in the form of nlitric acid , when the new body might be viewed as a salt-like compound of the formula C7 14 N2 ' 02 HNO3 ; C7 1-14 N2'I 02 3 the action of the water consisting simply in the replacement of the monatomnic nitrogen by the elements of water , which would produce salicylic acid , nitric acid being liberated .
I avail myself of this opportunity of mentioning the deportmenit of several other isonmeric bodies under the in-fluence of nitrous acid .
There are two basic compounds , CC ; ( H1 NO2 ) N , known ; the one is the alphaphenylam-nine of Hofrnaiun and MNuspratt , the other the betaphenylamine observed by Arppe .
When submitted to the action of nitrous acid , these two isomeric bodies yield two perfectly differenit nitrogen-substituted derivatives .
The substance obtained from alphaphenylamine ( the base formed by the reduction of dinitrobenzol ) has been already mentioned in one of my previous notes , the body derived from betaphenylamine is still under examination .
The action of nitrous acid proves that there are also two bromphenylamines similar to the two nitrophenylamines .
The original bromphenylamnine discovered by I-Tofnanin , and which is formed by the distillationi of bromisatin with hydrated potash , yields with nitrous acid a compound , ( Cm T-I , Br ) , ] C12 13 Br2 3N " ' N2 , crystallizing in beautiful golden-yellow needles , insoluble in water , and difficultly soluble in alcohol and ether .
The bromphenylamine , on the other haind , which was lately prepared by Mills * from acetylbromphenylamide , exhibits with nitrous acid a perfectly different deportment , being transformed into a yellow scarcely crystallihe compound , easily soluble in alcohol and ether , but insoluble in water .
I have not as yet analysed this compounid ; it.s formation , however .
and its properties render it probable that it will be found to be isomeric with the product of decomposition previously mentioned .
I am engaged in a more minute examination of this compound , which I hope may assist in explaining the cause of the still enigmatical isomerism exhibited by the derivatives of phenylamine .
I have already repeatedly called attention to the different atomicity exhibited by nitrogen under different conditionis .
In the derivatives of amidobenzoic and of anthranilic acids , it can be proved that 1 equiv. of nitrogen replaces 1 equiv. of hydrogen ; while in the derivatives of phenylamine , the nitrogen is present with the value of three molecules of hydrogen .
The experiments which I have described were performed in Dr. Hofmann 's laboratory .

