]\gt ; Journals .
Asclepiad .
A Book of Original Research and Observation .
By B. W. Bichardson , F.R.S. Vol. I. .
London 1884 .
Dr. Richardson , } Astro nomische Nachrichten .
Band 1883 .
The Editor .
Fortschritte der Physik .
Jahrg .
XXXVI . .
Berhn 1882-83 .
The Berliner Physikalischer Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen aus der Zoologischen Station zu Neapel .
Band IV .
Heft 4 .
Lei ; pzig 1883 .
The Zoological Station .
Attfield ( John ) , F.R.S. Chemistry : General , Medical , and ceutical . .
Philadelphia 1883 .
The Baltet ( Charles ) Action du roid sir les Vegetaux pendant l'Hiver .
1879-80 . .
Paris 1882 .
Societe d'AgricuIture de France .
Lefroy ( Sir J. F.R.S. Diary of a Magnetic Survey of a of the Dominion of Canada . .
London 1883 .
The Author .
Sewell ( Robert ) A Sketch of the Dynasties of Southern India .
Madras 1883 .
The India Office .
Weinberg Julien ) La Genese et le Developpement du Globe Terrestre et des Etres Organiques quil'habitent .
Varsovie 1884 .
The Author .
" " On a New Standard of Illumination and the Measurement of Light By WILLIAM HENRY PREECE , F.B.S. Received and read June 21 , 1883 .
1 .
The present position of photometry as practically applied to electrio lighting is by no means in a satisfactory condition .
Mathematical accuracy in the measurement of the intensity of the light emitted by a given source is unobtainable owing to the disturbing influences of quality and quantity which render impossible any gradnated scale of light .
An absolute standard of light has not yet been obtained .
I have long felt that to meet the case of electrio lltumination and the Measurement of Light .
light illumination we must not depend upon any direct comparison etween the light emitted by the source to be measured and any given recognised standard of light ; but that we should rather make standard of comparison an area illuminated to a glven intensity Whatever be the source of light .
We do not want to know so imuch the intensity of the light emitted by a lamp , as the intensity illumination of the surface of the book we are reading , or of paper on which we are writing , or of the walls upon which iwe hang our pictures , or of the surface of the streets and of the pavements upon which the busy traffic of cities circulates .
Illumination of this character depends not on one source only , but on many sources of light distributed in innumerable ways .
Hence , I propose to measure the illumination of surfaces quite independent of the sources of light by which they are ilIuminated .
The difficulties in comparing the illumination of spaces have hitherto been insurmountable , but now , thanks to the beautiful little glow lamps introduced by Mr. Swan , these difficuIties have disappeared .
The standard I propose is the space illuminated by 1 British standard candle at inches distance , which is same as the given by 1 French standard " " \ldquo ; on the same space at 1 metre 2 .
The principle of measurement which guides us in nearly all the methods at present in practical use is to compare two surfaces equally illuminated to the same intensity by lights placed at different distances , and to compare them by the law of inverse squares determined by Kepler .
This law , however , assumes a clear space through which the light is transmitted , and the emission of this light from a point .
Distance therefore becomes essential , and the error introduced by hrge flames or by the diifusion of light becomes difficult to eliminate ; indeed , by the present system it is well-nigh impossible to measure satisfactorily the light-giving power of several lamps distributed over a room or large area .
Moreover , the principle ignores the presence of different colours , and it involves the necessity , with electric arc Iamps , of taking measurements at different angles .
Up to the present time , the simplest and perhaps the most favourite mode of measurement is Rumford 's plan of contrasting shadows , but Bouguer 's method of comparing equally illuminated surfaces , as oarried out by Ritchie and Bunsen , is also in great favour .
3 .
All these plans , however , are dependent upon the establishment of a uniform standard of light .
Although in England , Parliament has legalised the standard candle , it has been found so inconvenient in practice , owing to its want of uniformity , that Mr. Vernon Harcourt has felt it advisable to replace the standard spermaceti candle with flame resulting from the combustion of pentane .
In France , again , the standard is the Carcel , burning at the rate of kilo .
of desirable to devise an instrument that would enable us to areas diiferently illuminated .
FIG. 1 .
For this purpose 1 make use of a small Swan glow lamp giving 2 } candle power with the current produced by5 volts .
The construction of the photometer is shown by figs. 1 and 2 .
The is fixed phragm ( P ) is so screened by a sliding cover that no light falls upon it but that which is reflected from the drawing paper .
At the end of the tube where the glow lamp is set is an eyepiece , through which the illuminated surface of the diaphragm at the end of the tube can be observed .
Beneath the base of the instrument is fixed a secondary battery fvhich enables us to transmit a current of any desired strength through the glow lamp ( L ) .
A rheostat is fixed in circuit with this battery , and enables the current to be 274 Mr. W. H. Preece .
On a New Standard of adjusted atrength oatterFor laboratory purposes amore accurate imode oeasnring t electrodynamometer , or upon a galvanometer .
intensity of the current is the following : is a galvanometer wound with two coils , one ( s ) consisting of short length of thick wire , and the other ( r ) of a long length of th } wire .
In circuit with the latter coil is a resistance , , and a standar } battery E. The relative deflective values of the coils and for similar being as 1 to , then when balance is obtained on the } the current flowing through the coil will be\mdash ; ' being the resistance of the , coil and battery , and E.M.F. of the battery E. Thus if the relati deflsctive values of the coils and are as 1 , that is , if , then if consist , say , of a 5-cell battery , and the resistance ( r ) of the galvanometer coil and be 800 ohms , the current , when balance is obtained by adjustmerl of , will be \mdash ; Practically with this arrangement a change of of am ampere in the current through the coil can easily be detected , currents can be read to three places of decimals .
To work the instrument it is only necessary to place the screep ( D ) in the place whose illumination is to be determined , ,and then by means of the rheostat to lower or increase the current passlng .
through the lamp until the grease spot , when viewed through tht eyepiece , becomes invisible , then the light reflected on the and transmitted through the grease spot by the distant surface of drawing paper will be equal to the light thrown upon the side of the diaphragm by the glow lamp .
The current producing the light thus becomes a measure of the illumination of the screen .
The following measurements were made to determine the current that gave various degrees of illumination\mdash ; the source of light bemg a standard candle .
* Cardew , " " Procsedings of Ielegraph-Engineers and Electricians vol. p. 301 .
Illumination and the Measurement of Light .
From these experimsnts it appears that the illuminating power of glow lamp } creases in the ratio of the sixth power of the current .
ence it is only necessary to read the current that glves th ' necessary equivalent to determine the degrse of illumination .
The current in amperes thus gives , for the particular glow lamp mployed , a numbel .
whose sixth power expresses the amount of the measured .
The apparatus works with ease and regularity , but it has this difficulty\mdash ; that it is dependent upon the constancy of the lamp , point not yet absolutely attained .
The glass lvelope of the lamp becomes deadened by use ; the carbon fibre of the lamp gradually lbecomes deteriorated ; and the vacuum sometimes fails .
These operations , however , are very slow ones , and it is only necessary occasionally to compare either the light given by unit current that in the laboratory thrown upon a surface by a standard candle or by one of Mr. Vernon Harcourt 's pentane lamps .
It is , however , certain from numerous experiments and practical trials that the light produced by the incandescence of a given carbo1l filament due to the passage of a given current is more easily reproduced from one time to another , and is more uniform than probably any other artificial standard of light .

