1885 .
] Researches on the Theory of Vortex Rings .
447 following conclusion : that , provided the oophore generation of Phylloglossum ( which has never yet been observed ) corresponds in its more important points to that of , we may regard Phylloglossum as a form which retains and repeats in its sporophore generation , the more prominent characteristics of the embryo as seen in Lycopodium cernuum : it is a permanently embryonic form of a lycopodiaceous plant .
XI .
" Researches on the Theory of Vortex Rings .
II .
" By W. M. Hicks , M.A. , F.R.S. , Principal and Professor in Mathematics in Firth College , Sheffield .
Received June 13 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The communication forms a continuation of some researches the first part of which was published in Part I of the Transactions for 1884 .
In that paper was considered the case of a circular hollow with cyclic motion through it .
In the present the more general case is investigated where the core is of different density from the surrounding fluid , has a hollow inside it , and circulations additional to that due to the filaments of rotational fluid actually present .
It does not seem to have been generally noticed that even in the case of the ring ordinarily considered , where the density of the core is the same as that of the surrounding fluid , and there are no additional circulations , the full theory ought to take account of the existence of a hollow , for when the energy of the motion ( as was pointed out by the author* ) is increased beyond a certain point , depending on the circulation and the pressure of the fluid where it is at rest , a hollow will necessarily begin to form .
As it seems impossible to account for the very great differences in the masses of the various elements on the vortex theory of matter unless the cores are of different densities , the investigation includes the case where the density is arbitrary .
As soon as the existence of a core is postulated the ring at once becomes more complex , depending on the density ( or even the distribution of density ) of its core , on its vorticity , and on the presence or absence of additional circulations .
The vorticity has been taken uniform ; this not only greatly simplifies the mathematical methods , but is also the case we should naturally choose first to investigate .
In the general investigation the density is taken to be different from that of the surrounding fluid , the ring is supposed hollow , with an additional circulation round it , and another round the outer boundary of the core .
It is evident that the presence of the former necessitates the * " On the Problem of Two Pulsating Spheres , " " Camb .
PhiL Proc. , " iii .
448 Researches on the Theory of Vortex Rings .
[ June 18 perpetual existence of the hollow .
It is shown that the presence of the latter is necessary to render the ring stable when its density i\amp ; greater than that of the surrounding fluid .
The investigation is divided into three sections .
The first is preliminary , and deals with the necessary functions and their approximate values .
The second is devoted to the state of steady motion ; and the third to the small symmetrical vibrations and the question of stability .
When the motion is steady the sectional centre* of the hollow lies outside that of the core .
In general if Ci is its position when the inner additional circulation is very large , and C2 when the same quantity is zero , Ci is outside of C2 , and the position of C when the additional circulation is anything else is the centre of gravity of masses proportional to the added circulation at Cj , and the circulation due to the core itself at C2 .
When the hollow is just zero the distance of C2 from the sectional centre of the core bears to the sectional radius the ratio 5r/ 8a where ris the sectional radius and a the aperture radius .
This therefore is the point where the hollow begins to form when the energy is sufficiently increased .
If with the same outer boundary the mass of the core be lessened ( or size of hollow increased ) , both Ci and C2 move in , and ultimately coincide with the centre of the outer section .
So long as the core is only doubly continuous the volume is constant , and therefore the sectional radius varies inversely as the square root of the aperture radius .
When there is no core it was shown in the former paper that the sectional radius of the hollow remained constant .
In the general case , after a hollow is formed , the sectional radius of the core changes more slowly , and the additional circulations add to this tendency .
The outer section always decreases as the aperture increases , but when the hollow becomes large this decrease is small , and the sectional radius of the core remains almost constant .
The sectional radius of the hollow , however , increases with the aperture when the hollow is small , but decreases beyond a certain critical value .
The expansibility of the ring , due to the presence of a hollow , has a marked effect on the variation of the velocity of translation with increasing aperture , the tendency being to make the variation smaller .
With an internal additional circulation the ring will possess internal energy comparable with that of the extei'nal fluid .
It will , however , decrease as the whole energy is increased .
The fluted vibrations in general consist of two pairs , those of one pair travelling with the ' cyclic motion , and the other against , the mode being determined by the number of flutings .
For a simply continuous core there are two times of vibration for each order ; for a hollow core without internal * By " sectional " centre , \amp ; c. , is meant the- centre of the cross section , * by " aperture " centre is meant the centre of the aperture , \amp ; c. 1885.J Taenia Echinococcus Dog .
449 additional circulation , there are three , together with a standing wave ( corresponding to an infinite period ) .
When both additional circulations are present the periods are given by a biquadratic equation .
When there is no rotational core the motion is always stable .
When there is a doubly continuous core whose density is greater than that of the surrounding fluid there must in general be an additional outer circulation to render the ring stable .
After a hollow is formed the simple ring usually treated of is still stable .
But if the core is denser than the surrounding fluid , it is always stable only if the outer additional circulation is larger than a certain critical value , depending on the densities and the circulations .
If it is less than this critical value , the ring becomes unstable at some point as the aperture increases .
XII .
" Notes upon the Experimental Breeding of Taenia Echinococcus in the Dog from the Echinococci of Man .
" By John Davies Thomas , M.D. ( Lond. ) , F.R.C.S. ( Eng. ) , lately Physician to the Adelaide Hospital , and Member of the Council of the University of Adelaide .
Communicated by T. S. Cobbold , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1885 .
The cystic parasite , Echinococcus , is known to occur under four forms , viz. , as\#151 ; 1 .
The Acephalocystic form .
2 .
Echinococcus scolicipariens .
3 .
" altricipariens .
4 .
" multilocularis .
As regards the Acephalocystic form first described in 1804 by Laennec , it is now generally regarded as a sterile variety in which either no brood-capsules and scolices have been formed , or in which such structures have once been present , but have degenerated and disappeared .
Echinococcus multilocularis is believed to owe its peculiar characters to the fact that it has developed , within tubular structures , e.g. , the lymphatic canals ( Virchow ) , the blood-vessels ( Leuckart ) , or the biliary canals ( Schroder van der Kolk , Friedreich , and Morin ) .
It is not probable that this unusual growth is connected in any way with the biliary canals , because it has been found not only in the liver but also in the lungs and peritoneum .
Echinococcus scolicipariens and Echinococcus veterinorum were long regarded as distinct species .
Their distinctive characters being\#151 ; ( a. ) A marked difference in the mode of proliferation .
In Echinococcus scolicipariens brood-capsules and scolices being produced , '

