1 .
" On the Immediate Principles of Human Excrements in the Healthy State .
" By W. MARCET , M.D. , F.C.S. , As .
sistant Physician to the Westminster Hospital .
Communicated by H. BENCE JoNES , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous paper I had the honour of communicating to the Royal Society the results of a first series of investigations on the immediate principles of the faeces of man and animals ; since then I have continued my researches on human excrements , being most ably seconded by my assistant , Mr. Frederick Dupre , Ph. D. The new results obtained were the following:1 .
Margarate of lime , phosphate of lime , and margarate of magnesia were discovered to be immediate principles of human evacuations .
2 .
I found a new method for obtaining excretine , and its chemical formula has been established .
3 .
The fact that vegetable food induces the presence of margaric acid in excrements has been confirmed .
4 .
The existence of a comparatively large quantity of cholesterine in the spleen , which I had mentioned before as probable , has been confirmed .
When human faeces are exhausted with boiling alcohol , the fluid being rapidly strained through a cloth , a clear extract is obtained , which , on cooling , yields a deposit ; this substance , being collected on a filter , is partly soluble in boiling alcohol , and there remains undissolved a residue insoluble in ether and alcohol .
The residue in question being boiled with a solution of potash , dissolves^almost entirely , and the addition of hydrochloric acid induces the formation of a precipitate in the solution .
On examining this precipitate , it was found to consist of a crystallizable substance fusing at 60 ?
Cent. ; its structure and other properties were precisely those of margaric acid .
The acid filtrate contained phosphoric acid and lime , From several quantitative analyses , I concluded that there was more lime than is required to combine with the phosphoric acid in the form of the neutral phosphate , the excess of lime being exactly that which was necessary to convert the margaric acid into a neutral margarate of lime , C34 H133 03 + CaO .
Consequently it followed that the three substances existed in the form of margarate of lime and phosphate of lime as immediate principles of human faeces .
The alcoholic filtrate from the deposit being allowed to stand for twenty-four hours , deposited another substance , of a nearly white appearance , and which proved to be margarate of magnesia .
The peculiar action of a vegetable diet on human faeces was investigated by means of experiments undertaken upon myself , when I observed that an entirely vegetable diet was attended with the formation of a large quantity of margaric acid in the excrements , -most probably not in the form of a margarate , but in the free state , inasmuch as it was obtained from the decomposition , with hydrochloric acid , of the precipitate induced by adding milk of lime to the cold and clear alcoholic extract of faeces , after the separation of the abovedescribed deposits .
In the month of December 1855 , I had an opportunity of noticing that during a cold night , when the temperature falls below the freezing-point , excretine crystallizes readily and in large quantity in the clear alcoholic extract of faeces ; this method I employed as often as possible , to prepare enough exeretine for its chemical analysis ; but the cold weather not lasting long enough , and this season having been remarkably mild , I was compelled to adopt a modification of the process by milk of lime , described in my former communication .
Having prepared a sufficient quantity of exeretine , partly by the action of cold , and partly by means of milk of lime , the chemical composition of this substance was now determined .
A qualitative analysis showed it to consist of carbon , hydrogen , sulphur and oxygen* ; there was no water of crystallization present .
Oxide of copper was employed at first for the combustions , but they were subsequently undertaken with chromate of lead , on account of the large proportion of carbon that excretine contains ; no substance having been found to combine with it , its atomic composition was calculated from the assumption that one equivalent contained one equivalent of sulphur ; and the following formula was obtained:78 eq. Carbon ... ... ... .
468 78 eq. Hydrogen ... ... . .
78 1 eq. Sulphur ... ... ... 16 2 eq. Oxygen ... ... ... .
16 Atomic weight of Exeretine 578 I shall not add more at present as to the properties of exeretine ; the plate which accompanies the paper illustrates the shape and arrangement of its crystals .
In my former communication I had stated that when the tissue of the spleen is submitted to a process of analysis similar to that adopted for the extraction of excretine , a substance closely allied to cholesterine is obtained .
This subject being one of great importance in a physiological point of view , I have resumed the investigation , and placed-beyond doubt that this substance is really cholesterine .
Its In my former communication I had erroneously stated that exeretine contained nitrogen , which resulted from my not having been able to prepare a sufficiently large quantity of the substance ; and , moreover , it might not have been perfectly pure .
presence in the spleen is evidently independent of that which might exist in the blood retained by this organ after death .
Is it that the spleen secretes cholesterine ?
This can only be determined by actual experiment ; but it is very remarkable that a part of the blood which is supplied to the liver should come directly from an organ containing large quantities of a substance known to enter into the composition of the bile .

