Production of Neon or Helium .
9 .
One could obtain more maxima , or increased waviness , in the pressure curve by introducing higher powers of \#163 ; into the fractions we have used .
With the same general method for evaluating the integral it follows that we should obtain expressions of the same type , only more complicated in form .
The various examples which have been studied cover a wide range of distributions of the type which one would expect to be associated with the motion of a ship , in respect to the formation of transverse waves .
It may be said that the corresponding resistance curves do not differ essentially from those obtained from a simple distribution , only with the introduction of additional coefficients there is possible a wider range of variation .
Attempts to Observe the Production of Neon or Helium by Electric Discharge .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , M.A. , Sc. D. , E.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South Kensington .
( Received and read December 11 , 1913 .
) S 1 .
Introduction .
Very general interest has been aroused by the observations of Collie and Patterson on the above subject.* It is understood that their results have been endorsed by Sir W. Ramsay from independent evidence .
The present experiments were begun in the hope of confirming the work of Collie and Patterson and of sharing in the interesting field of research thus opened up .
The results , however , have been negative , whether from a failure to appreciate the proper conditions for the production of neon or from some other cause .
There is no difficulty whatever in detecting helium or neon when isolated in approximate purity , and that the authors cited can have been deceived in the identification of these substances may safely be declared impossible .
The only real doubt is as to where the neon or helium came from .
Very small quantities of air contain enough neon for spectroscopic detection .
Some years ago I foundf that 1/ 10 c.c. was enough .
Rutherford and RoydsJ afterwards succeeded with 1/ 15 c.c. of air , and in the present paper * ' Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' 1913 , vol. 103 , p. 419 , and * Proc. Chem. Soc. , ' 1913 , vol. 29 , p. 217 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1908 , A , vol. 80 , p. 593 .
X ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1908 , vol. 16 , p. 813 .
VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; A. 2 Q 500 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Attempts to Observe the it will be shown that the neon spectrum can be well seen even in 1/ 100 c.c. of air .
It is clear , therefore , that before anything can be inferred from the appearance of this spectrum , attention must be concentrated on the possibilities of atmospheric contamination .
The helium spectrum may also be thus brought in , but only subordinate^ to the neon spectrum .
If a helium spectrum is obtained practically free from neon it must be attributed to some other source than the atmosphere.* If gas analysis apparatus such as a gas burette or a pump is employed , which has previously been used for manipulating large quantities of helium or neon , there must always be a risk that traces of the gas cling to it .
It is essential to empty all such apparatus of mercury and to wash it out well with air . .
The mercury used should be either redistilled or well cleansed by bubbling air through it for a prolonged period and filtering .
Without such precautions it is difficult to be sure that no trace of helium is entangled or dissolved in the mercury .
These considerations have probably occurred to the authors cited , but they do not make any explicit mention of them .
Before neon or helium can be isolated by the use of charcoal it is essential to get rid of hydrogen from the gases , for hydrogen is not absorbed by charcoal with the necessary completeness .
The procedure adopted by Collie and Patterson is to pump out the gases into a tube standing over mercury , and then to remove hydrogen by explosion with oxygen in a gas burette .
My own preliminary experiments were also made in this way , and traces of neon were found in the gases , but I was never able to feel that the process of removing tubes from one trough to another , standing in a cup of mercury , could be carried out with satisfactory certainty of avoiding the entrance of minute air bubbles entangled between mercury and glass .
The same may be said of pneumatic trough manipulation generally .
It must be admitted that the numerous blank experiments recorded by Collie and Patterson would seem logically to exclude the possibility of this having happened in their work .
But , for my own part , I felt that the labour of carrying out such blank experiments would be very great , while preliminary experiments seemed to make it doubtful whether I should be able to attain complete freedom from atmospheric contamination .
In any case , to achieve certainty a large number of positive results , alternating with blank experiments definitely and invariably negative , would be needed .
For these reasons a method was used by which hydrogen could be removed , * A helium spectrum free from neon might no doubt be obtained by systematically fractionating a large quantity of atmospheric neon by cooled charcoal .
In the text I assume one or two absorptions carried out with a minute quantity of gas at a very low pressure , as in the procedure described below .
Production of Neon or Helium by Electric Discharge .
501 and the test for neon carried out , without pumping the gas out of the apparatus or manipulating it over a pneumatic trough in any way .
Special importance is attached to this feature .
S 2 .
Method of Experimenting .
At the beginning of an experiment , all parts of the apparatus ( see figure ) were thoroughly exhausted through A by a Gaede pump .
The charcoal condensers M , 0 , and the vessel R were well heated while the exhaustion was in progresss .
D , E , L , N and P were then closed and the pump finally shut off by means of the two stopcocks A and C. The space between them was thus left vacuous , and the small gauge B showed that it remained so .
Thus C was not exposed to any but a very small " pressure difference , and the chance of leakage from outside was minimised .
Hydrogen was generated in F by heating a piece of sodium about the size of a hazel nut which was contained in it.* Hydrogen thus generated is not * This method of generating hydrogen is very convenient in such cases .
The sodium used is dry , i.e. it has never been placed in oil .
Sodium in moderate sized pieces keeps quite well in a dry bottle , and the custom of defiling it with oil , generally1 prevalent in laboratories , has little to recommend it .
A piece of sodium , coated with hydroxide from exposure to the air , allows of a vacuum being made over it when cold .
When heat is applied hydrogen is given oft ' ; this is derived partly from chemical action of the sodium on the hydroxide , partly from gas occluded in the metal .
Hon. R J. Strutt .
Attempts to Observe the open to the suspicion of containing air .
The gauge Gr served to show the hydrogen pressure , and the space between the stopcocks , DE , to measure out small doses of it into the apparatus .
The discharge tube was varied from one experiment to another , but is indicated diagrammatically at J. The annexe K was kept cooled in liquid air , and served to keep the discharge vessel free from mercury vapour and carbon compounds .
When the discharge had been kept on for the appointed time , a little oxygen was admitted to the apparatus , by heating the tube H , which contained a few milligrammes of potassium permanganate .
The coil discharge was passed intermittently , for a few seconds at a time , and caused oxidation of the hydrogen present .
At these low pressures the resulting water vapour quickly found its way by diffusion to the cooled tube K , where it was condensed .
In this way , by passing the discharge a few times with one-minute intervals for diffusion , the hydrogen in all parts of the apparatus was quickly got rid of , the tube showing little or nothing but an oxygen spectrum .
The stopcock P was then opened , admitting the gases to R. The charcoal condenser M was first cooled , and the absorption allowed to proceed for about an hour .
It was found advisable to heat the tube E again at this stage .
M was shut off , and the second charcoal condenser 0 brought into action for an hour .
P was then closed , and mercury run into R by opening T. The air trap S prevented any air bubbles being carried with it .
The residual gas , which should contain helium or neon if any were present , was compressed into the very narrow tube Q , made of the finest thermometer tubing , where it could be measured or examined spectroscopically .
The end of Q was not closed by fusion , but with a thread of sealing wax , which cut it off approximately square .
The discharge could be passed by means of wires twisted on outside the tube , which were connected with an induction coil .
They produced a discharge by electrostatic induction adequate to admit of spectroscopic examination , using the tube itself as slit .
When the gas was first compressed into this tube , and the current passed , the pressure diminished , owing to chemical absorption of the gas , either by the glass or mercury .
If no neon or helium were present , then , after a minute or so of discharge , further admission of mercury , by opening the regulating tap T , caused it to fill the capillary completely , leaving no interval visible , even with a magnifier , between the mercury and the sealing wax stopping at the top of the tube .
The pressure at the top of the column was about one-third of the atmospheric , and the diameter of Q 0T69 mm. The minimum volume detectable may be taken as 7 x 10-7 c.c. , which occupies OT mm. length of Q when the mercury is let up .
Production of Neon or Helium by Electric Discharge .
503 If neon or helium were present , their spectra rapidly developed and attained purity as the discharge passed , and on finally opening T , the mercury did not rise to the top of the tube , but was separated from it by a measurable interval .
Quantities , however , which were too small to occupy a measurable volume could still be detected spectroscopically .
Finally , it remains to be mentioned that the mercury was admitted to E from the vessel U , and could be sucked out again by a water pump attached to the three-way tap W. A calcium chloride tube V ensured that the air used to manipulate the mercury should be fairly dry .
S 3 .
Sensitiveness of the Test for The method of examining this was to admit measured volumes of atmospheric air , * to absorb with charcoal , and compress into the spectrum tube as described .
( 1 ) With % c.c. of air , the neon spectrum was very brilliant indeed .
When the mercury was allowed to run up , the length of gas column in capillary was 2 mm. ( 2 ) With 1/ 10 c.c. of air , the neon spectrum was still very brilliant .
Length of gas column | mm. ( 3 ) 1/ 50 c.c. air .
The yellow neon line was conspicuous even when the gas column occupied the whole length of the capillary tube .
On compressing it to a length of 1 or 2 mm. , the brilliant orange neon glow was seen , and a multitude of the red neon lines .
In this latter case only one electrode of the coil was used , the other being earthed .
Enough discharge was thus obtained .
The gas volume when the mercury was let right up ( one-third atmospheric pressure ) was too small to measure ; there was no interval visible , even with a magnifier , between the mercury column and the sealing wax plug which closed the tube .
From these experiments , it will be amply within the mark to say that the neon in 1/ 100 c.c. of air can be detected .
I believe 1/ 1000 c.c. is nearer the true limit .
S 4 .
Description of Some Typical Experiments .
In work of this kind , the technique is always modified and improved as the experiments go on .
Nothing would be gained by describing the less satisfactory experiments\#151 ; less satisfactory not because they gave any different result , but either from their short duration , from the impurity of the hydrogen spectrum in the discharge , or from the test for helium or neon not being carried out under the best conditions .
* I have not thought it necessary to describe the additions to the apparatus required for doing this .
504 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Attempts to Observe the I pass over also a few experiments in which the gas was manipulated outside the apparatus .
As mentioned already I have not been successful in excluding traces of air , amounting say to 1/ 50 c.c. or more , under these conditions .
Only one of the experiments made without transferring the gas gave primd facie a positive result .
This was with the electrodeless discharge .
Hydrogen was admitted to the extent of about 0'5 c.c. , to make up for absorption in the course of about 10 hours ' run .
The yellow neon line was observed , but not the red lines .
The quantity of neon was probably less than that contained in 1/ 100 c.c. of air .
The hydrogen used in this experiment was made by the action of dilute sulphuric acid upon zinc , and had stood over the acid , which was in contact with air , for some days .
It is believed that the hydrogen was contaminated with air which had diffused through the liquid , to the extent of say 1 per cent. , which would explain the result .
When the experiment was repeated with hydrogen which was above suspicion , no neon could ever be detected .
I pass therefore to the description of the final experiments , on which reliance is chiefly placed .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; A cylindrical discharge tube* of about 9 cm .
length and 2 cm .
diameter , provided with aluminium wire electrodes , was exhausted , and run long enough to get most of the gas out of the electrodes .
Finally it was charged with hydrogen at such a pressure as to give a striated discharge without much cathode phosphorescence .
About 0*1 c.c. of hydrogen was admitted for this purpose .
A large induction coil with mercury interrupter was used , and a current of 2 to 3 amperes was passed through the primary circuit .
This made the tube as hot as was judged safe .
The pressure slightly increased during the experiment , which was continued for eight hours .
The residue in this , as in all the following experiments , shrank sensibly to nothing , i.e. it occupied a length certainly less than 0T mm. in the capillary tube .
The volume of gas , reduced to atmospheric pressure , was certainly less than 7 x 10"7 c.c. Ho neon or helium were seen spectroscopically Mercury lines were the only ones visible .
The volume test for neon is much less sensitive than the spectroscopic and is valuable only as showing that no foreign gas is present to mask the neon spectrum .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; The same tube was run for five hours at low pressure , showing cathode ray phosphorescence ( 5 to 10 mm. alternative spark-gap ) .
After that the pressure rose somewhat , owing to liberation of hydrogen * The tube used in this experiment is the one shown in the figure .
It was replaced by other forms as occasion required .
Production of Neon or Helium by Electric Discharge .
505 during an additional run of three hours .
Eesidual gas occupied 0-0 mm. length in capillary tube as before .
Primary current 2 to 3 amperes ; no neon or helium by spectroscopic observation .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; A spherical bulb of soda glass , 100 c.c. capacity , was attached to the apparatus .
A coil of 6 turns of insulated wire was placed over it , and an electrodeless discharge maintained by constantly discharging a large ley den jar through the coil , with a spark-gap in series .
The jar was charged with the induction coil previously mentioned , passing 4 to 5 amperes through the primary .
This was as much as the coil would bear for long runs , as larger currents made it dangerously hot .
The discharge in the bulb was bright red , and concentrated in a well defined ring .
Absorption of hydrogen began as soon as the discharge was started .
It was most marked when the bulb was new , but continued , though less energetically , throughout .
The amount of hydrogen necessary to be admitted during a day 's run , to keep the conditions constant , was usually about 025 c.c. The first day , the discharge was run 10 hours .
Length occupied in capillary tube , 0'0 mm. No neon or helium in spectrum .
The ( invisible ) residue from this run was kept in the capillary spectrum tube , and more hydrogen introduced into the discharge bulb .
Next day 9 hours ' run was given .
The total hydrogen admitted in the two days was about 0'5 c.c. The united residue from the two runs was examined .
Length of capillary occupied , O'O mm. The spectrum showed no trace of helium or neon .
[ Experiment 4.\#151 ; A Pliicker spectrum tube was used with copper wire electrodes .
The capillary was 9 cm .
long and 1 mm. diameter , and the terminal enlargements each 7 x 1*3 cm .
Hydrogen was admitted to a pressure a little above that of cathode phosphorescence , and a strong discharge passed .
Absorption of gas was rapid , particularly at first , and the tube repeatedly ran " hard " and required replenishing .
Thus the discharge passed under a variety of conditions as regards pressure .
A bulb of 100 c.c. capacity was in connection with the tube , so as to make the pressure variations less rapid .
Total run , 13 hours .
Kesidue , 0'0 mm. length in capillary tube .
No neon or helium visible in spectrum.\#151 ; January , 1914 .
] Experiment 5.\#151 ; The tube used in this experiment was designed for bombardment of solids by cathode rays .
It was charged with potassium chloride , using a considerable mass of the salt , to protect the glass from bombardment .
The salt was heated before introducing it , and under these conditions the vacuum was maintained without pumping during the bombardment .
Any water or carbon dioxide given off was condensed in the annexe cooled in liquid air , used in this as in all the experiments .
Primary current , 2 to 3 amperes ; 10 hours ' run .
The hardness of Production of Neon or Helium .
the cathode rays was indicated by an alternative spark-gap of 5 to 10 mm. The rays at first turned the salt blue , but more energetic and long continued bombardment decolorised it again .
Length of capillary occupied by residue , 0*0 mm. No helium or neon seen in spectrum .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; Similar to the preceding , except that potassium iodide was substituted for potassium chloride .
Primary current , 1 ampere ; 7 hours ' run .
Alternative spark-gap about 1 cm .
Iodine was set free in the bombardment , and a deposit of it could be seen in the cooled tube .
Length of capillary occupied by residue , 0-0 mm. No helium or neon in spectrum .
In this and the previous experiment , while the bombardment of the salt was in progress , the hydrogen spectrum could be seen in some parts of the tube , suggesting that most of the residual gas was hydrogen .
These experiments are therefore relevant to the question of production of neon from hydrogen .
S 5 .
Conclusion .
It will be seen , then , that these attempts to confirm Collie and Patterson 's results have not met with any success .
It may be that the authors will be able to point out wherein the essential conditions have not been complied with , and thus help the attainment of a successful result .
In that case the present paper will have had its use , in eliciting further details from them .
The experiments on electrodeless discharge would seem to deserve special scrutiny .
Eor this kind of discharge can only be obtained under a limited range of conditions ; in this case the issue as to the cause of discrepancy would seem to be a good deal narrowed .
I feel confident that the present negative results are not due to any defect of the technique in looking for neon .
Most rigorous precautions have to be taken to avoid getting this spectrum from atmospheric contamination .
The experiments ( 5 , 6 ) on bombardment of potassium salts by cathode rays would have been expected , from Sir J. J. Thomson 's results , * to have yielded evidence of helium .
That they did not do so may be due to deficient sensitiveness of the spectroscopic as compared with the positive ray method of analysis .
We have no very definite data as to the sensitiveness of the latter .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1913 , A , vol. 89 , p. 18 .

