394 Prof. E. W. Mac Bride .
[ Nov. [ Noteadded November 23 , 1911.\#151 ; Since submitting these papers in August several articles by Kurt , Meyer , Muck , and others have appeared upon antigens , other than protein , with their effects both in test-tube and injection experiments .
Muck* shows that both tuberculo-fat mixtures and tuberculo-nastin act importantly in both test-tube and living experiments .
In contrast to these results Lautf reports that the injection of different tuberculo-products fails in healthy guinea-pigs , rabbits , and goats to produce specific fixation antibodies ; in the horse only were these results obtained .
] * Brauer 's ' Beitrage fur Klin .
Tuberc .
, ' vol. 20 , part 3 .
t ' Zeits .
fur Immunit .
Forsch./ vol. 9 , part 2 .
Studies in Heredity .
I.\#151 ; The Effects of Crossing the Sea-urchins Echinus esculentus and Echinocardium cordatum .
By Prof. E. W. MacBride , E.R.S. , Imperial College of Science and Technology , South Kensington .
( Received November 7 , \#151 ; Read November 16 , 1911 .
) The manner in which parental characters are transmitted to the offspring when different species of Echinoderms are crossed has been the subject of much experimental enquiry and quite contradictory conclusions have been arrived at by different investigators .
Thus Vernon ( 13 ) , who carried out a most extensive series of experiments with the species of the genera Arbacia , Echinus , Strongylocentrotus , Sphaerechinus , and Eehinocardium which are available at Naples , came to the conclusion that the condition of the genital glands of the parents ( whether imperfectly ripe , fully ripe , or stale ) determines in many cases whether or not a hybrid will be formed , and further that though in the majority of cases the hybrid exhibits purely maternal characters , yet it sometimes exhibits paternal characters also , and that this result is also due to the condition of ripeness of the genital glands of its parents .
Herbst ( 5 ) , who also worked at Naples and who used the genera Echinus , Strongylocentrotus , and Sphaerechinus for his experiments , found also that the hybrids in many cases showed the paternal influence , but that the extent to which this influence was exhibited varied with the temperature .
Doncaster ( 1 ) , who likewise worked at Naples , also arrived at the conclusion that the greater or less development of paternal characters in the hybrid was due to the temperature .
On the other hand , Loeb ( 7 , 8 ) and his pupil Hagedoorn ( 4 ) came to the conclusion that the hybrid exhibited Studies in Heredity .
1911 .
] purely maternal characters , and Fiscliel ( 2 ) arrived at the same conclusion on the whole .
This conclusion is the more remarkable because Hagedoorn in his experiments used two species of the same genus .
Tennent ( 12 ) crossed species of the American genera Toxopneustes and Hipponoe and found that the characters of Hipponoe were dominant in the hybrid whichever way the cross was made , but that if the alkalinity of the sea-water were reduced by the addition of dilute acid the influence of Toxopneustes became increased .
Lastly Loeb , Redman King , and Moore in a joint paper published quite recently ( 9 ) , in which they record the results of experiments with the same two species which Hagedoorn used , arrive at the conclusion that the exhibition of paternal and maternal characters in the hybrid is governed by the principle of Mendelian dominance , since , as they assert , the same characters appear in the hybrid whichever way the cross is made , whether , that is to say , in any particular case the character in question is inherited from the male or from the female parent .
During a study of the whole subject which I recently made with the object of summarising the present state of our knowledge of this question of the inheritance of paternal and maternal characters in the hybrid , I was struck with the necessity of a preliminary thorough investigation of the-characters of the normal larvae of the species used in hybridisation experiments .
The amount of general acquaintance with Echinoderm larvae displayed by several of the investigators who have attacked the subject is , to say the least , somewhat defective .
Thus Herbst(5 ) , who studied chiefly the cross between Sphaerechinus and Strongylocentrotus , attaches great importance to the extent to which lattice-work appears in the skeleton of the arms of the hybrid .
In the normal larva of Strongylocentrotus , it is true , all four arms are supported by unbranched calcareous rods , whilst in the normal larva of Sphaerechinus , each of the two posterior arms is supported by parallel rods connected by cross-pieces like the steps of a ladder , an arrangement which is termed " lattice-work .
" But Herbst fails to take into account the fact that in the normal larva of Strongylocentrotus a lattice-work skeleton can appear as a variation , and hence an attempt such as he makes to estimate quantitatively the influence of one parent by the amount of lattice-work which appears in the hybrid rests upon an insecure foundation .
There are , however , two cases known to me where the larvae of two species which can be crossed differ from one another in unmistakable features , about the presence or absence of which there can be no possible doubt .
These are , ( l ) the case of the species Echinus es and Echinus ( 2 ) the case of the species Echinus escuientus and cor datum .
VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. o Pro\#163 ; E. W. MacBride .
[ Nov. 7 , The first case has been investigated by Shearer , De Morgan , and Fuchs in a paper just published ( 11 ) .
As I showed in 1899 ( 10 ) , the larvae of these two species are distinguishable in the later stages of their development by the number and arrangement of the " ciliated epaulettes .
" These epaulettes are loops of the longitudinal band of ciliated ectoderm common to all Echinoderm larvae which acts as their locomotor organ .
These loops , when the larvae are about two weeks old , become cut off from the rest of the band and form four horizontally-placed crescents of ciliated ectoderm arranged in a circle round the body of the larva , and in the later stages of development the main work of locomotion is thrown upon them .
In the larva of Echinus miliaris , a bright patch of green pigment is formed posterior to each epaulette ; of this pigment there is no trace whatever to be found in the larva of Echinus csculentus .
On the other hand , in the larva of Echinus esculentus , when it is about three weeks old , an additional pair of ciliated epaulettes is formed , which are situated nearer the aboral pole of the larva .
No trace of these extra epaulettes is to be found in the larva of Echinus miliaris .
Finally , in the larva of Echinus esculentus , when it is about four weeks old , a pedicellaria makes its appearance at the aboral pole ; no trace of this pedicellaria is to be found in the larva of Echinus miliaris , though in both larvae lateral pedicellariae are developed .
Now , Shearer , De Morgan , and Fuchs find that the hybrid larva , with respect to the three characters just enumerated ; viz. , epaulettes , pigment , and pedicellariae , is always purely maternal , whether the male parent be Echinus miliaris or Echinus esculentus .
In fact , the larvae have the character they should have had if the eggs from which they took their origin had been normally fertilised .
This result is quite startling , but , as the experiments have been repeated again and again and checked in every possible way , it may be taken as well established .
Case No. 2 , i.e. , the cross between Echinus and Echinocardium , had already been included within the scope of Vernon 's investigation ( 13 ) .
He crossed the " eggs of Echinocardium cor datum with the sperm of Echinus , Strongylo-centrotus , Sphserechinus , and Arbacia , and obtained in each case about half as many larvae as when the eggs were fertilised with the sperm of the same species .
The hybrid larvae were all of the maternal type , but the aboral spike ( which will be described later ) was considerably shorter in them than in the normal larvae .
In most cases , attempts to fertilise the eggs of other genera with Echinocardium sperm were entirely unsuccessful , but in one case , when the eggs of Echinus were used , one-third of them developed and produced larvae of the purely maternal type .
The experiments , the results of which are recorded in this paper , were Studies in 1911 .
] performed with the species Echinocardiumcor datum and Echinus The results which were obtained are almost at total variance with those which Vernon records .
A word or two , therefore , on the conditions under which the experiments were carried out may be in place .
In the end of June , 1911 , I went to Millport , on the Clyde , and through the courtesy of the Director , Mr. Richard Elmhirst , I wras accorded the use of a table in the Biological Station of the West of Scotland Marine Biological Association .
I desire to record my gratitude to the Director and also to Dr. Gemmill , Vice-President of the Association , for the help they gave me in my experiments .
My thanks are also due to the staff of the Zoological Department of the University of Glasgow , from whom I obtained the loan of apparatus .
I remained at Millport during the months of July and August , and had abundance of the urchins of both species at my disposal .
In fact , at low spring tides , Echinus and Echinocardium could both be obtained by the bucketful within a comparatively short distance of the laboratory .
Both species were sexually ripe , and in both cases I was able to rear the normally fertilised eggs through a great portion of their developmental cycle .
In the case of Echinus esculentus the larvae lived for four weeks and developed their epaulettes , and all the eight larval arms .
Doubtless it would have been an easy matter to rear them through their metamorphosis into the adult form , but as I had previously worked out the development of this species in great detail I gave no special heed to the larvae .
In the case of Echinocardium cordatum , however , I was able to rear large numbers of the larvae through the whole of their larval development , and saw them metamorphose into young urchins under my eyes .
I used a culture of the diatom Nitschia as food in the case of both species , and for this I am indebted to Dr. Gemmill .
Now the artificial fertilisation of the eggs of Echinocardium which Vernon carried out resulted in the production of only a comparatively small proportion of larvae , and these lived at longest only about eight days .
It may be added that , according to my experience , all Vernon 's larvae were sickly , and their development went forward very slowly .
In my cultures , larvae three days old were more advanced in development than his larvae when they were five days old .
I think , therefore , that it will be conceded that my material was in a much healthier state than that which was at Vernon 's disposal .
In fig. 1 , a pure-bred larva of Echinocardium cordatum six days old is represented .
It will be observed that the rudiments of eight larval arms are already to be seen .
The " post-oral , " or " anal " arms ( as they are often designated by German writers ) , which are the first to develop , are fairly Prof. E. W. MacBride .
[ Nov. 7 , long , and the " antero-lateral " arms ( or " oral " arms , as German writers term them ) , which are the next to develop , are about as long .
It may be incidentally remarked that all writers who , up till now , have dealt with the hybridisation of Echinoderms ( with the exception of Shearer , De Morgan , and Fuchs ) have ignored all the stages in the development later than the four-armed larva .
To judge from much of what has been written on this subject , no one would ever suspect that the larva of an Echinoid had more than four arms ; but , as represented in our figure , the six-days-old larva of Echinocardium cordatum possesses in addition a pair of " postero-dorsal " arms , and in front of the mouth a pair of small elevations are to be seen which are the first rudiments of the " prse-oral " arms .
The oesophagus and the stomach and the coelomic sacs lying at the sides of the oesophagus are clearly visible .
From the aboral pole of the larva a club-shaped appendage projects backwards .
This is the distinctive feature of the larva of Echinocardium and its allies .
So far as our present knowledge goes it appears to be characteristic of the larvae of Spatangoidea generally .
Turning now to the consideration of the larval skeleton , we note that each post-oral arm is supported by a lattice-work consisting of parallel calcareous rods bound together by numerous cross-bars , but that each anterolateral arm is supported by a single calcareous rod .
The skeletons of both the antero-lateral and the post-oral arm on each side are formed as outgrowths of the " primary calcareous star " which appears on each side of the gastrula in all Echinoida .
This star sends back a third process towards the aboral pole of the larva , which is known as the " body-rod .
" This is situated beneath the stomach .
Dorsal to the stomach from the skeleton of the anterolateral arm there is given off a rod which runs towards the aboral pole parallel to the body-rod , but which does not reach ( as yet ) so far .
This is termed the " recurrent rod .
" The skeleton of each postero-dorsal arm is also a lattice-work of parallel rods connected by cross-bars , but it originates from a lateral centre of calcification entirely distinct from the primary star .
The skeleton of the " aboral spike " owes its origin to the secretory activity of a group of mesenchyme cells wedged in between the ends of the body-rods , which is clearly visible in the larva when it is two days old before the antero-lateral arms have developed , or any external trace of the aboral spike has appeared .
The skeleton consists of a lattice work of three slightly diverging calcareous rods bound together by cross-pieces and beset externally by spines .
This lattice work is connected with the ends of the body-rods .
The aboral spike bears at its apex a cap of columnar epithelium carrying long cilia .
The epithelium covering the rest of it is thin , flat , and non-ciliated .
We may compare with this larva the larva of Echinus of the Studies in Heredity .
1911 .
] same age .
Such a larva is represented in text-fig .
2 .
We see that the same number of arms are developed as we found in the larva of cordatumof the same age .
The post-oral arms are , however , longer and the Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Larva of Echinocardium cordatumSix Days old , viewed from the Dorsal Aspect .
a.b. , aboral spike ; a.l. , antero-lateral arm ; b.s. , body-rod ; coo .
, coelom ; lateral centre of calcification ; p.d. , postero-dorsal arm ; post-oral arm ; prte-oral arm ; r. , recurrent rod .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; A Larva of Echinus esculmtus , Six Days old , viewed from the Dorsal Surface .
a.l. , antero-lateral arm ; b.s. , body-rod ; coo .
, ccelomic sac ; dorsal arch ; l.c. , lateral centre of calcification ; m.p. , madreporic pore ; p.d. postero-dorsal arm ; p.o. , post-oral arm ; p.r. , prae-oral arm ; r. , recurrent rod .
postero-dorsal not so far developed as in Echinocardium The pne-oral arms are indicated merely by slight elevations , but on the dorsal surface of the oesophagus we can see the rudiment of the " dorsal arch , " the median centre of calcification , which at a later period of development will Prof. E. W. MacBride .
[ Nov. 7 , provide the skeleton for these two arms .
The lateral centre of calcification is not so far developed as in the Echinocardium larva .
There is , however no trace whatever of the aboral spike or of its supporting skeleton , and the post-oral and postero-dorsal arms are supported by single rods and not by lattice-work .
In the specimen figured , however , the post-oral arm on the left side is supported by two parallel rods .
This is a phenomenon which is by no means infrequent , and Mr. De Morgan has informed me that he has often seen lattice-work in the arms of the larva of Echinus The body rods in the specimen figured end in unbranched thickenings , but in many specimens , especially at an earlier period of development , they end in " inbent crooks , " which nearly meet at the aboral pole .
We may now examine the result of fertilising the eggs of cordatum with the sperm of Echinus escidentus .
We find that only a small proportion of the eggs so fertilised develop into larvae .
I estimate the number at about 1 in 1,000 .
These hybrid larvae can be kept alive for eight days ; in no case have I been able to keep them alive for longer than nine days .
They grow slowly , and develop only the antero-lateral and post-oral arms .
So far from exhibiting exclusively maternal characters they show the influence of the male parent in the most unmistakable manner .
One of these hybrids is represented in text-fig .
3 , and in it we can observe several paternal characteristics .
Thus the aboral spike has totally failed to develop ; and this cannot be explained as the effect of a mere retardation of development , because , as was stated above , in the normal larva of Echinocardium cordatum , before there is any trace of anterolateral arms , and when , consequently , the larva possesses only the post-oral arms , and before there is any external trace of the aboral spike , there is to be seen at the aboral pole of the larva a great accumulation of mesenchyme cells , which in the next stage of development give rise to the skeleton of the aboral spike .
In the hybrid no trace whatever of such an accumulation of cells at the aboral pole is to be seen at any stage of development .
Further , the body-rods of the hybrid show the inbending at the aboral pole which we have seen to be characteristic of the larva of Echinus escidentus .
The lattice-work of the skeleton supporting the post-oral arms is imperfectly , or not at all , developed ; this , too , is a paternal feature .
The maternal features which the hybrids exhibit are mainly " size " and " colour .
The egg of Echinocardium cordatum is less than half the size of the egg of Echinus esculentus ; it is therefore to be expected that the hybrid which develops from it should approximate in size more closely to the Echinocardium larva than to the larva of Echinus .
As a matter of fact , it is considerably smaller than either .
The pigment spots of the Echinocardium larva are of 1911 .
] Studies in Heredity .
a dark red colour , those of the larva of Echinus are of a light red colour .
In this respect the hybrid agrees with the maternal parent .
It is right to add that , out of all the hundreds of hybrid larvae reared , I found one solitary case where the aboral spike had been developed ; evidently , therefore , the paternal influence is not equally strong in all hybrids , a conclusion which is supported by the very varying extent to which lattice-work is developed in the arms of the hybrid .
Numerous attempts were made to fertilise the eggs of Echinus esculentus with the sperm of Echinocardium cordatum , in order to obtain the reciprocal hybrid .
At first it was thought that success had been attained , for a number t'l Fig. 3.\#151 ; A Hybrid derived from an Egg of Echinocardium cordatum , fertilised with the Sperm of Echinus escidentus , Six Days old , viewed from the Dorsal Surface .
ad .
, antero-lateral arm ; b.s. , body rod ; cce .
, coelomic sac ; p.o. , post-oral arm .
of eggs developed into larvae which showed purely maternal characters .
When , however , the precaution was taken of thoroughly sterilising the seawater in which the fertilisation was made , by heating it to 70 ' C. and allowing it to cool , none of the eggs developed .
Further , when the eggs of Echinus escidentus were allowed to lie in clean sea-water , without the addition of any spermatozoa , a small proportion developed .
It is clear therefore that ordinary sea-water , in the summer time , contains enough spermatozoa to cause some of the eggs to develop , a result not to be wondered at when we consider the abundance of Echinus esculentus , and the number of males which must be discharging their Prof. E. W. MacBride .
[ Nov. 7 , spermatozoa into the sea-water about the same time .
One cannot help wondering whether some of Vernon 's results may not have been clue to the neglect of the precaution of sterilising the sea-water .
When the eggs of Echinus esculentuswhich have been fertilised with the sperm of Echinocardiumcordatum in sterilised sea-water are examined under the microscope , many of them are seen to exhibit the fertilisation membrane , showing that the spermatozoa have entered them .
Their cytoplasm is seen , however , to be undergoing the form of degeneration known as cytolysis , that is , it is breaking up into globules .
One of these eggs .
is represented in text-fig .
4 .
Now Loeb ( 8 ) has produced the formation of the fertilisation membrane and of the initial stages of development in unfertilised eggs , by treating them with butyric acid ; unless , however , they were subsequently treated with hypertonic sea-water , cytolysis set in .
He consequently assumes that the spermatozoon has two actions on the egg : it starts cytolysis , to which the formation of the membrane is due , and it also checks the cytolysis which it has started .
The spermatozoa of Echinocarclium act on the eggs of Echinus like butyric acid without the addition of hypertonic salt solution .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; An Egg of Echinus esculentus , which has been fertilised with the Sperm of Echinocardium cordatum .
f , fertilisation membrane .
Loeb ( 7 , 8 ) , Godlewski ( 3 ) and Kupelwieser ( 6 ) have been able to cause the eggs of sea-urchins to develop , by adding to them the sperm of animals belonging to quite different classes , such as Starfish , Crinoids , and Mollusca , when the alkalinity of the sea-water in which the experiments were made was artificially increased , and in all cases the resulting larvae exhibited purely maternal characters .
In endeavouring to apply this method to the fertilisation of the eggs of Echinus with the sperm of Echinocardium I made mixtures of 100 c.c. of sterilised sea-water with 1 c.c. , 1|- c.c. , 2 c.e. , and 2| c.c. respectively of an N/ 10 solution of NaOTI in distilled water , and in these mixtures the cross-fertilisation was attempted .
In the culture which was made with a mixture of 100 c.c. of sea-water and 2 c.c. of N/ 10 solution of NaOH a few unhealthy granular blastuke were found , but none developed into larva ? .
1911 .
] Studies in Heredity .
In conclusion , I may point out that the types of sea-urchin represented by Echinus and Echinocardium have been distinct since the beginning of the Secondary epoch and that their common ancestor could not have lived later than a period which a moderate estimate would place at 20,000,000 years ago ; vet the germ-cells of the two types will commingle so as to produce a hybrid in which both paternal and maternal characters are represented .
LIST OF WORKS REFERRED TO IN THIS PAPER .
( 1 ) Doncaster , L. " Experiments in Hybridisation , with Special Reference to the Effect of Conditions on Dominance , ' ' ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1904 , B , voi .
196 .
( 2 ) Fischel .
" Uber Bastardierungsversuehe bei Echinodermen , " 'Arch , fur Entw .
Mech. , ' 1906 , vol. 22 .
{ 3 ) Godlewski .
" Untersuchungen iiber die Bastardierung der Eehiniden- und Crinoiden familien , " 'Arch , fur Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1906 , vol. 20 .
( 4 ) Hagedoorn .
" On the purely Motherly Character of the Hybrids produced by crossing the Species Strongylocentrotus and puratus .
, " 'Arch , fiir Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1909 , vol. 27 .
( 5 ) Herbst .
" Vererbungs Studien , " I\#151 ; Y , 'Arch , fiir Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1906 , vol. 22 , and 1907 , vol. 24 .
( 6 ) Kupelwieser .
" Entwicklungserregung bei See-igel-eier durch Mollusken Sperm , ' ' 'Arch , fur Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1909 , vol. 27 .
( 7 ) Loeb .
" Uber die Natur der Bastardlarven zwischen Echinodermen- und Molluskensamen , " 'Arch , fur Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1909 , vol. 26 .
( 8 ) Loeb .
' Die Chemische Entwicklung des tierischen Eyes , ' Jena , 1909 .
( 9 ) Loeb , Redman King , and Moore .
" Uber Dominanz-erscheinungen bei den hybriden Pluteen des Seeigels , " 'Arch , fiir Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1909 , vol. 27 .
( 10 ) MacBride , E. W. " The Development of Echinoids .
Part I.\#151 ; The Larvae of Echinus miliarisand Echinus esculenttis , " ' Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' 1899 , vol. 42 ( New Series ) .
( 11 ) Shearer , C. , De Morgan , W. , and Fuchs , H. M. " Preliminary Notice on the Experimental Hybridization of Echinoids , " 'Journ .
Marine Biol. Assoc. , ' 1911 , vol. 9 , No. 2 .
( 12 ) Tennent , D. " The Dominance of Maternal or Paternal Characters in Echinoderm Hybrids , " 'Arch , fur Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1910 , vol. 29 .
( 13 ) Vernon , H. " The Relations between the Hybrid and Parent Forms in Echino- derm Hybrids , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1898 , B , vol. 190 .

