]\gt ; . .
INDEX SLIP .
LERS , Charles H.\mdash ; On the Thermal Conductivities of Single and Mixed Solids and Liquids and their Variation with Temperature .
Phil. Trans. , , 1898 , vol. 191 , pp. 399-440 .
Thermal Conductivity , of Solids , Liquids , .
and Mixtures .
Variation with Temperature .
LEES , Charles H. Phil. Trans. , A. 1898 , vol. 191 , pp. 399-440 .
[ 399 ] .
On the Conducfivities of Single Mixed Solids Liquids and their Variation with CHARLES H. LEES , D.Sc .
, AssistLecturer in Physics in the Owens College .
municated by Professor ARTHUR SCHUSTEn , F.R. Received November 30 , \mdash ; Read December 16 , 1897 .
PART I. CONDUCTIVITIES AND TEMPERATURE COEFFICIENTS OF SOLIDS .
Sketch of Method , IN determining thermal conductivities*of solids not very good conductors of heat , the method least open to objection on theoretical grounds is the one in which a spherical shell of the substance to be tested is filled with , and the exterior surrounded by , some good conductor of heat , the temperatures of the conductors , inside and out , being observed by means of thermometers or thermo-junctions , and maintained constant by heat supplied , e.g. , electrically , to the inner conductor at a measured rate ( fig. 1 ) .
Difficulties , mainly of a mechanical kind , present themselves , however , in the carrying out of this method , which render it advisable to sacrifice some of the theoretical simplicity , in order to make the method more practicable .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
These difficulties are overcome most easily by having the naterial to be tested , the conductor to which heat is supplied , and the ou side conductors , in the form of flat eircular discs of the same diameter ( fig. 2 ) , the good-conducting disc , , to which heat * The extremely good account of previous methods and given by GRAETZ in WINKELMANN'S ' Bandbuch der Physik , ' vol. 2 , pp. , renders an account of such work unnecessary here .
5.9.98 .
per square centimetre per degree excess of temperature of the edges of the discs over 3 the inside of the enclosure were known .
To enable this quantity to determined directly by experiment , the whole of the supplied to the discs must be lost in the same way , i.e. , by conduction and radiation through air , and to satisfy this condition , the co]lection of discs should be placed in the centre of an air bath kept at constant temperature ( fig. 3 ) .
The heat lost from the curved surfaces of the discs then follows with sufficient closeness the same law as that from the flat surfaces of the outer discs , and the relative amounts of the two can be determined from a knowledge of the areas and temperatures of the various surfaces , if the surfaces have the same " " outer conductivity\ldquo ; or " " emissivity an equality which is easily secured by varnishing them .
Once the method of surrounding the discs by an enclosure at constant temperature has been adopted , a further simplification of the arrangement of discs is possible .
If one of the discs of the substance under test and one of the outer discs were removed , the relative amounts of heat lost by the heabing disc , ( fig. 4 ) , by conduction and radiation directly to the air from its exposed surfaces , and by conduction through the disc , , of material mented on ; partly to the air directly by conduction and radiation from the surface of , and partly by conduction to the good-oonducting disc , , and radiation from its surfaces , could still be calculated , and , the total heal supplied being known , the conductivity of the material determined .
On account of this method requiring only one disc of a substance the conductivity of is to be determined , it has been adopted in the experiments to be desoribed .
Description .
Apparatus .
The materials to be tested were cut into disoe of 4 centims. diameter , and of various thicknesses , in order to make the magnitude of the differenoe of tempsrature of the two flat surfaces , suitable for observation with the thermo-junctions employed .
The discs between which the material was placed were of copper , and had the same diameter .
On one side of the substance to be tested was placed a single copper disc , ( fig. 5 ) , 320 centims. thick , on the other side a compound diae , oonsistiog of moans of mica and shellac , the total thickness of the coil and mica bein centim. The contacts between the surfaces of the copper discs and , and the substances , were improved by smearing them with glycerine and sliding them together .
The glyoerine was generally sufficient to keep the discs together during an experiment , but to ensure the surfaces remaining properly in contact , a few turns of silk thread were wound round the discs .
At opposite extremities of a diameter of each disc , two holes , 7 millim. diameter and 3 millim. deep , were bored towards the centre of the disc , and into one hole of Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 7 .
each disc a platinoid , and into the other hole a copper , wire was soldered .
The wires were double silk covered , about 30 centims. long , and were all cut from the same two coils .
The surfaces of the pile of discs were varnished to give them the same emissivity , and the pile placed in the centre of a double-walled air-bath ( fig. 6 ) , of 17 centims. height , 15 centims. length , and 7 centims. breadth , supported on legs about 4 centims. above the table .
The top of this bath consisted of a double wooden lid , cut down the centre to allow the wires from the discs to pass out .
The edges of the lid were covered with green baize , in which the wires embedded themselves , and which closed the bath sufficiently to prevent convection currents between the inside and outside .
On the outer walls of the air-bath a coil of insulated platinoid wire was wound , and an electric current could be sent through the wire to keep the bath at any required temperature .
The inner walls were about 1 centim. within the outer , and between the two watel could be circulated , or the space could be filled with air simply .
A thermo-junction was soldered to the centre of an inner surface , and enabled the temperature of the enclosure to be determined .
wires from the heating coil , , after passing out through the lid , dipped into mercury cups , which wires passed to the ceUs supplying the heating current , the power absorbed being regulated by a rheostat and measured by a wattmeter .
VOL. CXCI . .
3 tube was wrapped with green baize ( fig. 7 ) .
The ends of the wires loading to } potentiometer arra1lgement for measuring the electromotive force in the thermoelectric circuits , could be placed in any two of these mercury cups , and by means of .
an additional short wire of platinoid , any two thermo-circuits could be placed in series , and the difference of the electromotive forces in the two determined .
Theory of Flow of Heat in Discs .
Let heat generated per second in the heating coil .
heat lost per second , per square centimetre per degree excess of temperature of the discs over that of the enclosure .
excess of temperature over that of enclosure .
actual thickness of a disc , plus a small correction , to allow for heat lost along thermo-wires .
radius of discs .
Subscripts refer to " " cover\ldquo ; " " upper\ldquo ; " " middle\ldquo ; discs , disc of substance respectively , the heating coil coming between and , and the substance to be tested between and ( fig. 5 ) .
When the " " steady state\ldquo ; has been attained , the heat received per second by the copper disc M.from the disc of substance , and given up to the air Similarly , the heat received by the disc , of material tested and given up to the air and to the disc If is the thermal conductivity of the material , the heat flowing through the diso tested * The reason for the choice of these terms will be understood from Part II .
Eliminating between these equations we have and from the second equation we have which enable us to determine and from observations of and the temperaures of he , discs .
In the foregoing theory it has been assumed that the steady state of temperature distribution had been attained .
As , however , an infinite time is required before this condition is satisfied , it remains to determine at what previous period observations may be taken without the results deduced from these observations being in error by say cent. If the temperature of the " " middle disc\ldquo ; is increasing at a rate , the expression for the heat it receives becomes where ?
is the mass , and the specific heat of the material , of the disc .
Similarly , the expression for the heat received by the disc of substance , since we may assume that the discs increase in temperature at the same rate , becomes .
ill be noticed that the heat flowing through the substance has been takon equal to tho mean of the heats flowing into and out of it respectively .
The closeness of this approximation may be tested by using the values of in terms of , obtained on the usual assumption of plane-isothermal surfaces , i.e. , eosh Eliminating between these equations , we have For the discs used .
and during the experiments was about , and the value of the on the right-hand side of the equation , 4 .
Hence , for the error introduced by neglecting to be less than per cent. , we must have or so the change of temperature in 1 minute ought not to exceed C. No observations in which this rate was exceeded have been used in what follows .
Loss of along Thermo-Wires .
In the above theory , the heat conducted away from the discs by the wires of the thermo-junctions , has been taken into account by adding a small !
correction to the thickness of the discs .
To determine the amount of this correction for any wire , we write where is the temperature excess at a point of the wire distant from the disc , perimeter of section of the wire .
area conductivity of the wire .
emissivity , for For the copper wire used ( No. 28 ) , , allowing covering ; , and , therefore For the platinoid wire , which had the same diameter , we have and therefore total loss of heat along thermo-wires from one disc per second If is the thickness of a disc which would lose the same amount of heat from its edges , we have , since the loss of heat from such a disc centims , and the loss along the thermo-wires may be taken into account in the theory of flow of heat in the discs , by taking as the thickness in the formula , p. 403 , the measured thickness of the disc plus this quantity .
Constants of the Discs .
centims. , therefore .
centim.s .
centims. centims. , therefore centims. , therefore centims. , therefore Half the thickness of the heating coil and mica insulation is added to the upper disc and half to the cover .
Hence the formula , p. 403 , become Measurement of Power .
The power given to the heating coil of the discs was measured by means of a wattmeter , with its series coils in the main circuit , and the terminals of its shunt coil dippin iuto the same mercnry cups as the terminals of the heating coil .
The shunt coil had a resistance of 12 ohms , and was suspended bifilarly by means of the two leading wires .
The instrument was standardised by sending a current through a 2-ohm resistance coil of thick platinoid wire , and regulatin the strength of this current till the electromotive force at the terminals of the resistance was equal to , that of a Clark cell .
The wattmeter readings were taken by reversing the connections of the suspended coil to the heating coil in which power was to be measured .
The series coils were placed parallel to the magnetic meridian , so that the effect of the earth field on the deflection would be small , and there would be 110 necessity for reversing the current in the heating circuit .
For convenience in working out results approximately , the resistance in series with the suspended coil ( 320 ohms ) was adjusted till the wattmeter deflection was nearly 1000 divisions per gram degreet of heat , generated per second in the coil .
If is the heat generated per second in a coil of resistance , and is the deflection on the wattmeter , the shunt coil of which has a resistance of ohms , we have * The value of is only required in this work to make certain small corrections in the course of the calculation , and the above equation will not be further referred to .
The mean values of found the course of the work , are:\mdash ; Water gram degree at C. joules .
AND LIQUJDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE , where is a constant .
In one of the standardisation experiments the Clark cell had a temperature of C. and an E.M.F. of volts .
The deflection on the wattmeter was found to be .
Hence , since ohms , we have When , therefore , the wattmeter was connected to the heating coil of the discs , which had a resistance of ohms , from which the heat generated in the coil could be found from the wattmeter deflection .
The power thus measured is that spent in the heating coil and the connections leading to it .
A portion only of this power is im.parted to the discs themselves , the rest is spent in the short lengths ( centim. ) of the platinoid wire projecting outside the discs , and in the No. 22 copper wires leading to the mercury cups outside the air-bath .
The total length of the platinoid wire was 150 centims. , and centims. of it , and 50 centims. of No. 22 copper wire , were outside the discs .
The resistance of the coil and connection was ohms , 02 ohms being due to the copper ; and ohms to the projecting platinoid wire .
Of the total power generated , therefore , only imparted directly to the discs .
There is , however , an indirect method by which some of the remaining power may be communicated to the discs , i.e. , by thermal conduction along the coil wire , and to determine the amount of this , we require to know the distribution of temperature the wire .
Assuming that the isothermal surfaces in the wire are planes perpendicular to the axis , we have for the " " steady state\ldquo ; where cross section of wire , perimeter of wire , conductivity of wire , emissivity of wire , heat developed in 1 centim. length of wire , temperature excess over air , at a point distant from the junction of the platinoid and copper wires .
DR. C. H. LEES ON THE THERMAL CONDUCTIVITIi08 O The solution of this equation is where A and are constants of integration .
Fig. 8 .
For the platinoid wire , , therefore and Hence in the platinoid wire For the copper wire , therefore , and Since he temperature of , he copper wire to the right is nowhere infinite , we have in the copper wire where is a constant of integration .
When in the expression for the temperature of the platinoid wire , the temperature excess should be equal to that of the discs , which , on the average was C. Hence , Also at the temperatures and fluxes in the two wires are alike .
Therefore , and 35 These three equations determine , and give for the temperature in the platinoid wire , The heat flowing per second from the wire to the discs at AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE .
gram degrees .
* Hence , 0008 gram degrees of heat flow per second along the two wires to the discs .
Of the 21 gram degrees of heat imparted in the coil is expended outside the discs , and of this is conveyed to the discs by conduction , leaving , or about per cent. , which does not reach the discs .
The wattmeter readings must therefore be diminished by this to give the power actually imparted to the discs .
Combining this result with the one previously found , we have for the heat , imparted to the discs , .
000953 when is the deflection on the wattmeter .
The Thermo-electric Measurements .
The principle adopted in measuring the electromotive forces in the various thermo-electric , circuits , was that of balancing them against the fall of potential .
down a high resistance in series with a cell of known electromotive force .
The arrangements of the circuits will be understood from the accompanying diagram .
Fig. 9 .
, and are resistances in series with the Leclanche cell , L. and are resistance boxes of platinoid , of 30,000 ohms and 10,000 ohms respectively .
is adjustable , and it was varied until the fall of potential down the 30,000 ohms was equal to that of a Clark cell , .
This adjustment was not absolute]y necessary , but was carried out for convenience by the arrangement shown in the figure .
The thermocouple , , is balanced against the fall of potential down a part of , which represents three dial resistances of copper wire , only one of which is shown in the figure .
The movable arms of the dials consisted of short thick copper wires dipping into mercury cups .
The dials read respectively , ohms , 1 ohms , and ohms .
They were made * More generally the heat conducted along one wire to the discs , where is the heat generated in the coil , and the temperature excess of the discs .
VOL. CXCI.\mdash ; A. determined , or by arranging two of the circuits in opposition , the difference of electromotive forces in any pair could be found .
of Thermo-couples .
To determine the constants oeach of the thermo-couples , the various copper discs were bound together by tape , a thin sheet of mica being placed between each disc insulation , and the bulb of a thermometer graduated degrees was placed in contact with , and bound to , the discs by a few turns of the same tape .
The combination was then placed in its usual position in the air bath , and the bath heated by sending a current through the coil encircling it .
When the temperature of the bath had been raised to about C. , the current round it was diminished till the temperature ceased to rise , and further adjusted till the temperature remained constant .
After about half-an-hour the indications of the thermometer in the bath , and of a similar thermometer in the mercury cups in which the other junctions were placed , were read , the electromotive forces in each thermo-circuit found , and the thermometers again read .
After a few minutes ' interval the process was repeated .
Since in the test of conductivity it is the difference of the temperatures of the discs which is required , observations of differences of the electromotive forces in the various circuits were in each case taken .
As these differences were small , and could be observed with the same degree of accuracy as the actual electromotive forces , which were comparatively large , the calculations of conductivity have all been based on them , one of the observations of actual electromotive force having been used to fix the mean temperature of the disc experimented on .
The ollowing table gives the results of the observations:\mdash ; temperature of the discs in the bath .
that of the mercury cups .
number of ohms of the potentiometer necessary to give a balance in the circuit from the " " upper disc 1 ohm corresponds to volt .
ohms giving a balance when " " upper\ldquo ; and " " middle\ldquo ; circuits were opposed .
ditto ditto , when upper\ldquo ; and " " lower\ldquo ; opposed .
ditto . . .
ditto , when thermo-junction from inside surface of air bath was in circuit .
: ordinates , and as abscissae , of the which follow the table .
CONSTANTS of Thermo-junctions .
Ohms per degree .
It will be noticed from the table that although the wires used for the thermojunctions were cut from the same bobbins and treated alike subsequently , the thermo-circuits had different constants , the difference in the case of the upper and middle circuits amounting to 1 per cent. , and in the case of the upper and heater circuits to 6 per cent. This prevents the difference of the temperatures of two junctions being determined directly by dividing the electromotive force in circuit when thejunctions are placed in series , by a constant .
The method to be used is indicated subsequently .
The " " cover\ldquo ; and " " upper\ldquo ; circuits were found to give identical results , and the upper junction was therefore adopted as the standard , and the differences between its electromotive force and those of the other junctions determined in each case .
To determine the temperature of the junction in the upper disc , given the temperature of the junction in the mercury cups , and the e]ectromotive force in the circuit , we require to divide this electromotive force by a quantity which itself varies to a small extent with the temperature required , If , however , this potentiometer for a balance .
The form of the table will be seen from the part of it given below:\mdash ; Temperature oercury c To determine the temperature of the upper junction when the junction in the mercury cups had a temperature of say C. , and the resistance for a balance was say ol , we find from the table that the divisor is 388 , and the temperature difference between the junctions is , and the temperature required therefore C. The same plan was adopted for the junction in the air bath .
Theory of Observations rnojunctions in Series .
If two homogeneous wires of materials and have their ends soldered together , and the two jumctions are kept at temperatures and , the electromotive force in the circuit is given by an equation of the form where and are constants .
If the junctions of a second pair of materials , and , where differs slightly from in thermo-electric properties , are kept at temperatures , and have AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE .
where and are constants .
If at the junctions at temperature , the two circu-its are joined in series , the electromotive force in the circuit is the difference of the above , and if we write it we have .
Let become identical with , and let now be the electromotive force in circuit .
Then .
Therefore , or , which furnishes a means of determining from observations of the elecbromotive force when the circuits are in series , and of the electromotive force in the same circuits when the temperatures and are identical .
In the tables which follow the quantity is indicated by the term " " Observed and by the term ' ' Reduced In the experiments , is the temperature of the system of mercury cups ( fig. 7 , p. 401 ) , indicated in what follows by J. The junctions in the discs are indicated by the letters , for upper , , cover , and junction inside the air bath respectively .
Method of Bxperimenting .
In carrying out the test of a disc of any substance , the copper discs , between which the disc to be tested was to be placed , were first bro'ught together , and the total thickness of the combination measured by means of a wire gau ge .
The thickuess of the disc to be tested was then measured , the disc placed in proper position between the copper discs , being used to improve contacts , and the total thickness measured .
The differences of the observed thicknesses is the thickness of the disc of the material used , plus that of the two layers of glycerine , and we know , therefore , the thickness of the glycerine layers , and can calculate their effecb on the flow of heat .
The combination was then suspended in the centre of the air bath , with the plane surfaces of the discs vertical .
An electric current was then sent through the heating coil of the discs , which increased in temperature and began to lose heat to the bath .
the wattmeter , and of the electromotive forces in the various thermo-circuits , were made , an interval of 5 or 10 minutes allowed to elapse , and the observations repeated .
If the second set did not show that the steady state had been reached , the temperature of the bath was varied suitably , and observations repeated .
In this way it was insured that the observations were ma during a state which approximated with sufficient closeness ( p. 404 ) to the steady state .
If the test was to be carried out at a lower temperature , cold water was allowed to circulate between the inner and outer walls of the air bath , the observations being taken as before .
If the test was to be carried out at a higher temperature , the current through the heating coil was increased for a time , and current sent through the coil on the air bath till its temperature had been raised to the required amount .
The current through the heating coil of the discs was then reduced to its normal amount , and the temperatures throughout allowed to become steady .
Observations were taken as before .
In cases where there was any suspicion of a change of the material under test having been brought about by the increase of temperature , for additional security the temperature of the bath was lowered and a second test made at the original temperature .
The following tables and curves show the substances tested and the results obtained : AND LIQUIDS AND TTHEI VVARIATIO WITH TTEMEERATUE .
Remarks on preceding In the first table the whole of the observations and J..eductions are shown , but in the second the observations and only the important steps in the reduction .
The thickness given in the tables is that of the material under test plus the two layers of glycerine .
The correction for the glycerine is too small to be taken into account , except in the case of glass and of the mixture of sulphur and French chalk .
The corrected values for glass are : at , 00248 , 00243 , 00244 ; at , 00261 , 00263 ; at , 00272 , and for the cement at , 00182 ; at , 00155 .
The glass was ordinary window glass , known as 22 oz. In the second series of experiments with it , the glycerine contact layers had been replaced by shellac ( see p. 420 ) .
The naphthaline disc was cast between glass plates and ground down to the required thickness .
two naphthol discs were obtained by sawing slices from two large blocks of the material and grinding the surfaces .
The sulphur disc was made by pouring melted sulphur on to a glass plate and grinding the upper surface down till it was parallel to the lower , and the disc of the VOL. CXCI.\mdash ; A. The shellac disc was cast between glass plates , and contained a few small air.holes .
The fibre was the ordinary " " white fibre\ldquo ; of electrical instrument makers .
As the result of these experiments , it may be stated that the tendency at about C. of the thermal conductivities of solid substances not very good conductors of heat , is to diminish with increase of temperature , at a percentage rate which appears to vary with the nature of the substance .
Amongst the materials tested , glass is the only exception to this rule .
The above values of the conductivities agree with those found by a different metbod LEES , Phil. Trans for temperatures between and glass , 00243 ; sulpbur , 00045 ; ebonite , 00040 ; shellac , 00060 , except in the case of sulphur , where the large difference is probably due to the disc tested in the present experiment not being wholly crystalline .
PART II .
CONDUCTIVITIES AND TEMPERATURE COEFFICIENrS 0F LIQUIDS .
Experiments .
The apparatus used originally in the experiments on the conductivitie .
of liquids , consisted of two circular copper discs , and , cemented by rubber cement to the opposite sides of a circular sheet of rubber , , fig. 10 .
To the free surface of the upper disc , a flat coil , , of insulated platinoid wire was cemented , and served to supply the heat required in the experiment .
These discs were supported by means of .
three-legged support , , screwed to the upper disc , above the third copper disc , , which was provided with a raised edge .
The legs of the support were long enough to raise the lower surface of the disc , about 13 centim. above the upper surface of the disc , .
The liquid , the thermal it was retained by the raised edge .
The three discs were then placed on the horizontal top of a closed vessel through which a stream of cold water was kept flowing , and they could , if necessary , have a cover placed over them .
On sending a current through the coil , , part of the heat generated flowed through the disc , to the top of the cold water vesse ] , the rest was lost by conduction and convection in the air above the coil .
After the distribution of temperature become steady , the heat flowing through bhe rubber from to proceeds either through the layer of liquid to , or is lost from the surfaces of and of the liquid .
As the temperature of the water through the vessel underneath the discs was always a few degrees less than that of the air of the room , it was possible , by regulating the rate of flow of the water , to arrange that the temperature of the surface from which this heat was lost was nearly identical with that of the air , and the loss was thus reduced to so small an amount that it could be neglected .
By means of tlJermojunctions of copper and platinoid wires , soldered into bout 3 millims. deep in the edges the discs , and , and in holes 2 centims. deep in the edge of the disc , the temperature of the upper disc , and the differences of temperature between the upper and middle , and between the upper and lower discs , were found by cing he thermo-electric E.M.F. in each case against the requisite fractional part of the E.M.F. of a Leclanche ' cell , which had been compared with a standard cell .
It was found that for small temperature differences the E.M.F. so determined , could be taken as proportional to the differences of temperature .
Fig. 11 .
From the difference of temperature on the two sides of the rubber sheet , and the thickness area snd conductivity of the rubber , the amount of heat the liquid could be calculated , and if the thickness of the liquid , the area of flow , and the difference of temperature are known , the thermal conductivity of the liquid can be found .
The curvature of the lines of flow in the liquid near the edge of the disc , , will render the area of flow in the liquid greater than in the rubber , and a small correction would have to be applied if the thermal conductivity were made to depend on that of the rubber .
It is better , however , to base the determination on the conductivity of water , which can be substituted for the liquid , and iested under the same conditions .
In this case the areas of flow in the two liquids may be assumed to be equal , and the calculation simplified .
liquid , and the apparatus used throughout the greater part of the investigation was then constructed .
Between two nickel-plated copper discs , and , fig. 11 , p. 419 , 4centims .
in diameter and 3 centim. thick , a disc of glass , , 28 centim. thick , was cemented by means of thin layers of shellac .
In order to prevent bubbles of air in the layer of shellac , the surfaces of the copper and glass discs to be cemented together were each covered with a thin layer of shellac , which was allowed to dry .
Both ces were then smeared with glycerine , and slid carefully together , air being prevented from getting between the surfaces by the presence of abundance of glycerine .
Pressure and heat were then applied , the pressure forcing out the glycerine and inging the layers of shellac into contact , and the heat joining them .
Both contacts were made in this way , and withstood a large amount of usage without coming apart .
A flat spiral coil of platinoid wire , , was placed on the top of the upper disc , and .
was held down by a thin copper disc , , thick , screwed to the disc , The coil was insulated from discs by means of mica , and the surfaces of the discs exposed to the air were varnished to give them the same emissivity .
TlIis ation rested on .
the inner edge of a ring of ebonite , , of 7 centims. external , * H. F. WBBID , ' Berliner Ber 1885 , p. 809 .
The upper numbers are percentages by weight ; the by volume- .
Taken from the table , p. 425 .
AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE .
421 and .
internal diameter , which in turn was supported by a disc of nickelplated coppel , , 7 centims. diameter and centim. thick , to which it was cemented by rubber cement .
The copper discs will be called in order downwards , the ' ' cover " " upper " " middle and Jower\ldquo ; copper discs , respectively .
The discs were placed with the flat surfaces horizontal , in a flat cylindrical air bat .
, fig. 12 , p. 419 , consisting of an upper and a lower .
half , each capable of being heated by means of an insulated coil of atinoid wire wound round it , and the lower half provided with a compat.tment through which a stream of cold water could be sent to cool the bath rapidly .
During a test of thermal conductivity , this compartment contained air only .
A -junction was soldered inside the top of the upper part of the enclosure , and it is assumed that the air to which the top and side surfaces of the discs lose heat , has the temperature given by this thermo-junction .
The thermo-junctions in the upper discs were those described ( p. 419 ) , and were arranged vertically under each other .
In order to bring thejunction in the lower disc vertically under those in the upper , the holes in the sides of the lower disc were made ngly deeper , and for a depth of centims. wider than those in the upper discs , and were lined with thin glass tubes to prevent the wires making contact with the disc at any other points tham the junctions .
The liquid to be tested was placed in the ebonite ring , and had therefore the same as the ebonite .
The heat flowing through the under surface of the middle copper disc was conducted away partly by the liquid under test , partly by the ebonite .
The amount conducted by the ebonite could be calculated if the shape of the stream lines and the thermal conductivity of the ebonite were known .
It is , however , much more accurate to determine this quantity by a separate experiment , substituting air for the liquid and so arrarging amount of heat supplied , that the temperature difference between the middle and lower discs is the same as in the experiment on the liquid .
The heat conducted through the air is then small , and can be calculated from the known thermal conductivity of air .
The remainder of the heat flowing through the under .
surface of the middle disc is conducted through the ebonite to the lower disc , and is the quantity required .
Theory of Ebonitc Ring If radius of copper and glass discs , thickness of glass disc , The disc of liquid being thin , convection cnrrents only come in to a slight extent when tho discs are not quite horizontal .
In the of a disc of water , an inclination of to the horizontal only increased the apparent conductivity 1 per cent. WINKELNANN'S value has been used , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 48 , p. 186 , 1895 .
excess of temperature of middle disc , , excess of temperature of lower disc , , then the heat flowing through the glass disc per second the heat entering the middle disc and the heat leaving the middle disc by its under surface .
The amount passing through the disc of liquid the amount entering the ebonite ring surrounding the liquid may be put * where A. is an unknown constant depending the breadth of the ring under the middle copper disc , and on the distribution of t , he lines of flow in it .
Between these quantities we have the relation from which we can determine if and are known , by observations of and *Strictly , a term ought to be introduced here , since some of the lines of flow from the middle disc may pass through the ebonite to its upper surface .
On account of the smallness of , this term been neglected .
See note , AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH MPERAlU R The value of and are known from the observations made in Part I. The value of A is determined most accurately , by carrying out an experiment with air substituted .
the liquid , so that the term involving on the left-hand side of the equation has a known small value .
From the observations of } ) erature the value of the right-hand side of the equation is calculated , and hence the value of A. Constants of Apparatus .
centims. , therefore sq .
centims. centims. , therefore ) .
centims. , , 281 , , therefore centims. centims. 00030 , therefore and Sum Method ofExperimenting with Ebonite Ring Apparatus .
In carrying out a determination of the thermal conductivity of a liquid , the surfaces of the discs with which the liquid was to come into contact were , and the nickel-plated surface of the middle disc wet with the liquid .
Liquid was then poured into the space inside the ebonite ring , till the upper surface of the liquid was higher than the upper surface of the ring .
The middle disc was then placed on the ebonite ring with one edge touching the liquid , which was drawn into the space between disc and ring by capillarity .
The disc was then slid slowly over the ring till the liquid was entirely enclosed , and any excess which flowed over the ring was removed by filter paper .
To prevent the upper discs moving during an expel.iment , they wel.e secured to the lower , either by a silk thread passing from one side of the lower disc over the upper discs to the other side of the lower disc , or by a wire frame which could be attached to the lower disc , and was provided with a screw which pressed on a small disc of cork on the copper disc covering the heating coil .
The combination was then placed in the air bath and the process described ( p. 413 ) carried out till the steady temperature state was attained , when the observations of power supplied , temperatures , and temperature differences were made .
Experiments were made on four liquids , with the results given in the following tables and curves .
AND LTQUIDS AND THEIR WITH : On account of the rapid way in which the methyl alcohol evaporated , it was necessary to work quickly , and the numbers given for it are not quite as reliable as those given for the other liquids .
The last column contains the values obtained by H. F. WEBER , the mean thermal conductivities between and As a result of the experiments , we may state that the thermal conductivities of hquids decrease with increase of temperature in the neighbourhood of C. , at a percentage rate which appears to be roughly the same for a number of liquids .
PART III .
CHANGE 0F CONDUCTIVITY 0N MELTING .
Combining the last result with the one obtained for solids , Part I. , and with the fact that solids in general conduct heat better than liquids , and liquids better than gases , we are led to conjecture that a given substance will , as its temperatllre is decrease in conductivity , and that the decrease will continue during any change of state which the substance may undergo , owing to the increase in temperature .
The * H. F. WEBER , ' Berliner Ber 1885 , p. 809 .
VOL. CXCI . .
3 I it passes from the solid to the liquid state , the apparatus used for liquids was ' : modified slightly , so as to allow space between the lower and middle discs for change of volume of the substance tested on melting .
The ebonite ring was replaced by one of " " white fibre pierced by a hole 4 I6 centims. in diameter , i.e. , greater in diameter than the middle copper disc ( fig. 13 ) , Fig. 13 .
with three strips , , of fibre projecting inwards , in order to provide support for the middle disc , and keep the layer of substance tested of constant thickness .
By means of a wire frame attached to the lower disc , and a screw , the upper discs were pressed down on to the strips of fibre , and the lifting of the upper owing to expansion of the substance tested on melting , prevented .
Some of the substance to be heated was placed within he ring , and the lower disc eated till the substance melted .
The upper discs were then placed in position and the apparatus allowed to cool .
The experiment was then conducted as in a test of a liquid .
area of the projecting lu gs of the fibre disc , through which heat could flow , was estimated as approximately .
centim. , hence the heat transmitted per second per unit slope of temperature through the fibre , and not through the substance under test , would be gram degrees approximately .
* The net area of flow through the substance has been taken sq .
centims. , but as this number is , to some extent , uncertain , owing to the difficulty of obtaining discs which , in the solid state , completely filled the space within the fibre rin .
the results given in the following table for different substances are not comparable with each other to within 3 or 4 per cent. , although those for the substance , at different temperatures , are .
* The conductivity of the fibre ( pp. 417 , 418 ) .
AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE .
The experiments show no apparent break in the regularity of the change of conductivity at the melting point in the case of three of the solids , and a decrease of about 20 per cent. in the case of This salt was extremely difficult to work with , on account of the rate at which it absort ) moisture , and the results obtained cannot be relied on to the same extent as those for the other substances .
It seems , then , reasonable to conclude that , for salts at least , change of state on melting is not invariably accompanied by an abrupt change of thermal conductivity .
PART .
THERMAL CONDUCTJVITIES 0F MIXTURES .
After coming to the above conclusions with respect to pure , or approximateiy pure , substances , one is led naturally to experiment on mixtures of substances , and , since mixtures ofliquids are most easiIy made , they were the first on which observations were carried out .
It is obviously advantageous to investigate mixtures of pairs of liquids , the conductivities of which differ as widely as possible .
The number of liquids which satisfy this condition is small , owing to the great nber of organic liquids which have conductivities nearly alike .
Water and glycerine are much better conductors than most liquids , and have , therefore , been used in several mixtures .
The following mixtures of water , ethyl alcohol , methyl alcohol , acetic acid , glycerine , and sugar were made , and their thermal conductivities investigated:\mdash ; *BARUS ( ' Sill .
Journal ' ( 3 ) , vol. 44 , ) , ] found a decrease of about 15 per cent. in the case of thymol , which melts at about C. AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH RATURE .
Glycerine in water . . . . . .
Ethyl alcohol in ' . . . .
umeby weight .
Methyl alcohol in water . . .
olumeby weight .
Acetic acid in water .
Glycerine in ethyl alcohol .
Methyl alcohol in ethyl 25 , , 74 per cent. , by weight and by volume .
Sugar in water .
cent , lume .
Some of the experiments were carried out with the ebonite ring apparatus , fig. 11 , p. 419 , some with the earlier form of apparatus , fig. 10 .
The lollowing table gives the experiments made with the former apparatus:\mdash ; Constants of centims. , , sq .
centims. centims. centims. Sum * HENNEBEEG , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 36 , , 1889 , obtained results for mixtures of water and ethyl alcohol agree closely with those that follow .
aS * Previous to the apparatus with the glass disc being ucted , experiments had been carried oub with the apparatus in which rubber replaced the glass .
As the conductivity of this rubber was unknown , the results obtained were all expressed in terms of the conductivity of water .
By means of the value for water found in Part Ir .
, these relative values have been converted into absolute values , and are given in the table which follows .
The discs were not in this case surrounded by a vessel of known temperature , but were exposed to the air , the t , emperature of which was observed .
The lower disc placed in the top of a vessel through which cold water circulated , and the observations were taken in the manner previously described .
The theory of the method is identical with that given on p. 422 , except that the constant A is zero .
Constants of centims. , sq .
centims. , therefore centims. , therefore . .
AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE .
When the results given in these two tables are expressed by curves , with composition by weight as abscissae and conductivities as ordinates , the for mixtures of methyI and ethyl alcohol and glycerine with water differ widely from each other , and no general law connecting the conductivities of mixtures directly with the conductivities and relative masses of the constituents can be traced .
If , however , proportions by volume are taken as abscissae , instead of proportions by weight , the curves for mixtures of methyl and ethyl alcohol and acetic acid with water become nearly identical , and we are to the conclusion that in further work proportion by volume should be made the basis of comparison .
A further conclusion from an inspection of these curves is that the conductivity of a mixture of two liquids is less than the value calculated by the linear formula when and are the conductivities , and the volumes , of the constituents present , and that the difference is greater the greater the difference in the conductivities of the constituents .
VOL. selves to liquids , we are limited to ratios of conductivities of about one to three , and ; we must turn to mixtures of solids , or of solids and liquids to get greater ratios .
In the case of mixture of solids with liquids which dissolve them , a difficulty arises as to which conductivity of the material entering into solution ought to be used in making the comparison\mdash ; that of the material when in the solid , or when in the liquid state .
[ The results given in the previous table for solutions of sugar in water are almost identical with those of of glycerine and water , so that it may be said that a solution of sugar behaves as if it were a mixture of water and a liquid having the same density as sugar and a thermal conductivity .
I have , however , found , by the method described by me in ' Manchester Memoirs , ' , No. 5 ( 1898 ) , that the thermal conductivity of the solid sugar was about0012 , so that from a knowledge of the thermal conductivity of a solid we can infer little or nothing as to how it will behave when it enters into solution .
Thus , JAGER , 'Wien .
Ber vol. 99 , p. 245 ( 1890 ) , found that solutions of sodium chloride , potassium chloride , and zinc phate of about the same strengths had conductivities nearly alike and slightly less than that of water , whereas I have found ( ' Manchester Memoirs ' as above ) that the first two salts in the solid state conduct eigbt or nine times as well as water , and the latter a little better than water .
The result for ammonia solution given in the above table points in the same direction , so that it seems advisable , for the present at least , to confine our attention to mixtures in which neither constituent has changed its hysical state .
The further question , whether such mixtures should be treated as physical mixtures or as chemical compounds , must be held over till more information has accumulated .
June , 1898 .
] If , on the other hand , solids are mixed with liquids in which they are not soluble , there is great difficulty in keeping the mixture experimented on uniform , and in ining its exact constitution .
These considerations point to the conclusion that mixtures of solids would be most useful in leading to the discovery of any law .
They have , however , the disadvantage of not being as readily made as mixtures of liquids , a disadvantage which may be removed by using as one constituent a semi-solid like lard or vaseline .
A series of experiments have , therefore , been made with the apparatus , fig. 11 , p. 419 , on mixtures of one of these substances with various amounts of reduced iron , marble , zinc sulphate , and sugar , in the form of powder , and the results are given in the following table and curves:\mdash ; AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPMRATURE .
These results , taken in conjunction with those found for liqulds and solutions , show conclusively that thermal conductivity of a mixture is not a linear function of its composition .
The observed conductivity is always less than that calculated from the linear law , and , on the other hand , greater than that calculated on the assumption that the resistivity is a linear function of the composition .
second assumption is , however , a closer approximation to the observed facts than the former .
Since neither of these simple assumptions seems capable of representing the facts , which , by their uniformity , appear , notwithstanding , to point to some general law of nlixtures , it seemed advisable to calculate the conductivity of a model of a mixture built up in some simple way so as to lend itself readily to the process .
Suppose a cubic centimetre of some substance , having a conductivity , to be divided by equidistant planes parallel to its faces , into 1000 small cubes of 1 miIlim .
ed ; and let small cubes of the same size but of a material of conductivity be substituted for of the cubes of the cubic centimetre chosen at random .
The large cube is then a mixture of two materials , and its conductivity may be readily calculated if the lines of flow are assumed to be parallel to one edge of the cube .
If is the thermal resistivity of the that of substituted small cubes , the probability that , when are substituted , of them wiIl be found in any column chosen at random , ! !
1000 !
and the heat conducted through such a column , when its ends differ in temperature C. , AND LIQUIDS AND THEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE . !
1000 !
Hence the conductivity of the mixture on the sumption that cross-transmission from column to column may be neglected , The values of the factorial expressions have been calculated for , 400 , 600 , and 800 with the aid of DE MORGAN'S tables of and nre as follows:\mdash ; The results of calculations of the conductivities of mixtures for which , and and respectively , are given in the following curVes , along with the observed curves for mixtures of water and alcohol , and of vaseline and marble , and the curves for conductivity and resistivity following the linear law , for comparison .
The calculation gives conductivities always below the observed values , a result which is due in part , and it may be entirely , to the neglect of the transverse transmission of heat from column to column of the model .
The agreement is , however , sufficiently near tojustify the statements that the thermal conductivity of a substance is not greatly modified when it enters as one constituent in a physical mixture , and that the thermal of a mixture depends directly on the amounts and conductivities of its constituents .
* ' Encyclopaedia ' vol. 2 , p. 486 .
Constitution .
A reference to the values obtained for the thermal conductivities of solutions of a gas or a solid in water , will show that the above law does not apply to cases in which one constituent of the mixture changes its state on mixing .
Further work is necessary before any law can be stated , but it seems probable that if the thermal conductivity of the gas or solid when liquefied were known and used as that of the material entering into solution , the above law would be found to cover solution as well as physical mixture .
PART V. CHANGE 0F CONDUCTIVITIES 0F MIXTURES W1TH TEMPERATURE .
In order to determine the effect of temperature on the thermal conductivities mixtures , experiments were made on several of the 50 per cent. mixtures of liquids mentioned in the section .
They were carried out with the enclosed apparatus , fig. 11 , .
The observations and results are given in the following tables and curves:\mdash ; AND LIQUIDS AND HEIR VARIATION WITH TEMPERATURE .
ON THE THERMAL CONDUCTIVITIES OF SOLIDS AND LIQUID8 .
50 per cent. by weight of Glycerine and water Acetic acid and water Ethyl alcohol and water .
It will be seen from this that thermal conductivities of mixtures decrease with increase of temperature at roughly the same rate per cent. as their constituents .
STATEIIENT 0F RESTJLTS .
preceding results may be summarised as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
Solids which are not very good conductors of heat , in general decrease in conductivity with increase of temperature in the neighbourhood of C. is an exception to this rule .
2 .
Liquids in the neighbourhood of C. follow the same law .
3 .
The conductivity of a substance does not invariably change abruptly at the melting point .
4 .
The thermal conductivity of a mixture lies between the conductivities of its constituents , and seems connected with the itution and conductivities by a simple law .
5 .
Mixtures of liquids decrease in conductivity with increase of temperature in the neighbourhood of C. at about the same rate as their constituents .

