]\gt ; Prof. C. F. Jenkin .
Dilatation and These results will be applied and extended to the case of the actual hotographic plate .
The possibility of obtaining this formula for the probability integral on purely theoretical grounds is also under investigation .
Summary .
( 1 ) It has been shown that the silver halide grain is the photochemical in the photographic plate .
( 2 ) A method has been devised whereby the law of the photochemical behaviour of these grain can be investigated , free from the disturbing effects of development , etc. , which in the photographic plate itself .
( 3 ) From experimental results obtained , a formula has been deduced , which shows the relation between the behaviour of the silver halide grains , the light intensity to which they have been exposed , and the time of exposure .
( 4 ) The results show that it is impossible for the mechanism of the process to be the absorption of light in discrete quanta , and that a given amount of light energy has a greater effect photographically when conoentrated into a short range of wave-lengths than when it is distributed over a large range .
Dilatation and Compressibility of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
By C. F. JENKIN , C.B.E. , M.Inst .
C.E. , Professor of Engineering Oxford .
Communicated fred Ewing , Received July In a former paper*it was pointed out that , in order to determine a starting point for drawing the , and I diagrams for , it was necessary to know the coefficient of expansion of the liquid at constant pressure .
The results of a series of measurements on the dilatation and elasticity of the liquid were given ( fig. 11 , p. 78 ) , but it was pointed out that the results obtained were not in agreement amongst themselves , though sufficiently accurate for the purpose for which they were needed , and it was stated that a new series of measurements were about to be made .
These measurements , delayed by the war , have now been completed and are described in the following paper .
' Phil. , vol. 213 , p. 76 .
The present research was undertaken for the Engineering Committee of the Food Investigation Board of the Department of Scientific Research .
Compressibility of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
The dilatometer used is shown in fig. 1 .
It consists of a glass burette , to contain the portion of liquid carbonic acid under examination , enclosed in a steel tube capable of withstanding the necessary pressures .
The lower end of the burette dips into mercury , which separates the contents from the rest of the liquid which fills the tube .
Round the bulb of the burette a coil of fine platinum wire is wound , which serves as the " " bulb\ldquo ; of a platinum thermometer and gives the temperature of the liquid .
Inside the burette a long loop of platinum wire is stretched from the top to the bottom ; the lower end of this loop is short-circuited by the mercury , so that , by measuring the resistance of the remainder , the height of the mercury in the burette ( which cannot be seen inside the steel tube ) may be found , and hence the volume of the charge .
The connections to these two platinum wires and two additional compensating leads are carried through the vulcanite plug in the top of the steel tube and sealed gas-tight in it by means of small rubber tubes surrounding little brass buttons on the wires , which are drawn tightly into holes in the vulcanite .
The ends of the steel tube are closed by heavy brass hexagon caps , screwed on , which make gas-tight joints on thin vulcanite washers .
The vulcanite plug is supported by a steel washer .
The resistances of the two platinum wires are measured with a Callendar and Griffiths bridge , the coils being connected to the bridge alternately by means of a throw-over switch .
The one pair of compensating leads serves for both .
When in use the dilatometer stands in the calorimeter shown in fig. 2 , which contains a copper coil , forming part of a refrigerating circuit , and a number of electrical heaters ; by these means the temperature can be maintained at any desired steady value .
The calorimeber is filled with Prof. C. F. Jenkin .
and methylated spirits , kept in vigorous circulation by a small electricaU -driven centrifugal pump , which draws the spirit down a central tin tube and throws it up round the coils and heaters on the outside .
The whole is enclosed in a 2-inch cork jacket , given for the purpose by the Delta Slab Company , and stands in a wooden box , packed with slag wool .
FIC .
2 .
The arrangements of the apparatus for charging the dilatometer and regulating the pressure in it when in use are shown in fig. 2 and are used as follows : gas is admitted to the whole system from the supply cylinder , , till the pressure reaches about 10 atmospheres ; the cylinder is then shut off and the charge released .
This operation is repeated four times to wash out the air .
The gas is then admitted up to the full pressure in the supply cylinder , which is warmed till the pressure reaches about .
in .
At the same time the cylinder , , is cooled by pouring on cold water and the dilatometer is cooled by wet cloths , and the cushion cylinder is warmed by heating the water in the surrounding vessel .
In this way the gas is distilled over and condenses in A and in the dilatometer , but the cushion remains charged with gas .
When the apparatus is fully charged the supply cylinder is shut off Any desired pressure can be applied to the dilatometel by opening the valve , connecting it to , which is heated when high pressures are needed , or by closing that connection and releasing gas from the cushion when low pressures are needed .
The cushion is used to facilitate the exact regulation of the pressul.e and is kept hot all the time to prevent liquid conden sing in it .
The Compressibih .
tie of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
connection to the dilatometer is made of -inch diameter copper pipe -inch bore ) , which is so flexible that the dilatometer can be moved about freely .
Before it is charged the whole of the dilatometer is very cleaned .
The burette is then put in the steel tube and the top cap screwed on ; it is then turned upside down and the burette nearly filled with mercury , and the bottom cap ( now on the top ) screwed on .
It is then gently laid on its side in two crutches , adjusted to hold it nearly level , the bottom end a trifle lower than the top .
During this operation the mercury runs out of the burette into the steel tube , but some is left in the side of the bulb ; this may be tipped out if desired by again raising and the top end .
The mercury is prevented froun flowing into the top end of the dilatometer by a vulcanite collar .
The dilatometer is charged with liquid , as already described , while lying in the crutches .
When charged it is raised into the vertical position and the lnercury then cuts off the contents of the burette from the rest of the liquid outside .
The quantity so cut off is , however , more than is wanted and has to be reduced .
This is done by heating the dilatometer in the calorimeter beyond the maximum temperature at which any measurements are to be made .
During this operation some of the liquid bubbles out through the mercury .
The same charge can be retained for more than one day if care is taken to maintain a sufficiently pressure by keeping the cylinder A above atmospheric temperature or by keeping the dilatometer cooler than the atmosphere in the calorimeter .
Calibrations .
The Callendar and Griffith 's bridge was first checked and found to be accurate to the required limits .
The coil of platinum wire wound on the bulb of the burette and used for measuring temperatures made of a piece of the wire used by the Cambridge Scientific Illstrument Compan.v for their platinum thermometers , and is known to have a value of Its length was not adjusted to give a fundamental interval of exactly 1 ohm , but as it turned out to be ohms , the resistances are approximately temperaturjs .
To determine the fundamental interval the resistances of the coil were measured in ice , and in the calorimeter at C. , as measul.ed by a platinum thermometer .
The platinum thermometer was calibrated in ice and steam ands also compared with a mercury thermometer which bas been ealibrated by the N.P.L. The agreements were good , and over the range oovered the temperatures are probably accurate to C. Vide Kaye and Laby 's ' Physical and Electrical Constants , ' p. 46 .
Prof. C. F. Jenkin .
Dilatation The resistances of the loop inside the burette were measured at he same time , and its fundamental interval found .
To enable the volume of the closed liquid to be deduced from the observed resistance of the platinum loop , a calibration curve connecting volume and resistance was prepared as follows : reference line was etched on the burette .
Weighed quantities of pure mercury were then poured into the burette , which was fixed vertically upside down , and the difference in level between the meniscus and the reference line measured with a cathetometer .
A curve was then drawn connecting volume*and height of meniscus .
The burette was then turned right way up and a rubber tube and mercury reservoir connected to it by means of which the mercury was raised step by step in the stem .
In each position the resistance of the platinum wire loop was measured by the bridge , and the difference in height between the meniscus and the reference line was read with the cathetometer .
A curve was then drawn connecting the resistance and the height of the meniscus .
From these two curves the required calibration curve was drawn connecting volume and resistance ; it hardly differs ceptibly from a straight line .
This curve is only correct for the temperature at which the resistance measurements of the loop were made\mdash ; hereafter called the standard temperature\mdash ; and all subsequent resistance measurements of the platinum loop have to be reduced to their corresponding values at standard temperature before the volume can be obtained from the calibration curve ; the method of making this reduction is given below .
A small correction has to be made to the observed volumes to allow for the change of volume of the glass burette at different temperatures .
Assuming the linear expansion of the soda glass to be , the cubical expansion will be 3 .
As the volume was measured at C. , the correction at amounts to which is appreciable .
The necessary correction has been applied to all the results given in Table I. Pressures were read on a 10-inch standard gauge calibrated by the N.P.L. It is divided to .
in .
intervals , and pressures can be estimated to llb . .
in .
, and are probably correct to .
in .
Method of Making the Tests .
The dilatometer , having been charged as already described , was put into the calorimeter and the content of the burette reduced to a suitable In reducing the weights of the mercury to volume , allowance was made for the buoyancy of the air and the temperature by means of the factors given in Kaye and Laby 's ' Phys. and Chem. Constants .
: Compressibitity of Diquid rbonic Acid .
Prof C. F. Jenkin .
Dilatation and amount .
The calorimeter was then cooled to zero centigrade , and a series of leadings made on the bridge corresponding to a series of pressures from 1200 .
in .
in steps of 100 lb. .
in .
down to a pressure within about .
of the limit curve .
If the linlit curve was passed , the liquid in the burette boiled over , and the test had to be started again .
At each point the pressure was first adjusted and then final adjustments made to the temperature .
Three bridge readings were then taken in rapid succession , viz. , resistance of temperature coil , resistance of volume loop , and resistance of temperature coil again .
If the temperature had changed more than or between the first and last readings the results were rejected and another group of readings taken .
The pressure was then readjusted to a new value and a fresh set of readings taken , and so on .
None of the readings were normally exactly at the desired temperature , and had afterwards to be reduced by a correction depending on the coefficient of thermal expansion of the liquid .
As this coefficient is difficult to obtain accurately close to the limit curve , special attention was paid to the temperatures accurate for the lowest readings .
This was particularly important for the C. series , since the absolute values of all the volumes depended on the assumed specific volume of C. on the limit curve .
To make sure of having no temperature correction at this point , a series of consecutive readings were taken alternately of the two resistances while the temperature was allowed to creep very slowly up ; this series continued till the exact zero temperature was just passed .
This method might have been adopted for every reading , but was very slow .
The temperature could not be raised fast as there was probably an appreciable lag between the temperatures inside and outside the burette .
As soon as the series of readings at zero were completed , the temperature was reduced to C. This was the lowest tempel.ature at which the apparatus could be run without risk of freezing the mercury .
After a similar of readings were taken at that temperature , similar measurements were made at and .
For the two highest series at and , a smaller charge of liquid had to be used .
This was measured by observing its volume at C. , near the limit curve , as before .
The observations at low temperatures were smoothly and easily made , but at the high temperatures were more difficult .
As it nears the critical point , the liquid becomes both excessively elastic and excessively sensitive to temperature changes\mdash ; at the critical point , the coefficient of expansion is infinite .
One result of this is that , each time he pressure is lowered to adjust it to a new value , the liquid expands , and , in so doing , cools itself , ompres ibility of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
thus throwing the temperature adjustment out .
As the temperature is raised again , tho liquid expands , and the pressure has again to be htly adjusted .
For these reasons , getting steady conditions for the observations required much patience , though the conditions were not actually unstable .
Reduction of Results .
Each observation gives three figures:\mdash ; ( i ) The gauge pressure , lb. .
in .
( ii ) The resistance , , of the platinum loop , which gives the volume of the liquid .
( iii ) The resistance , , of the platinum coil , which gives the temperature of the liquid .
The true absolute pressure on the liquid calibration correctionbarometric pressure-difference of height of mercury inside and outside the burette .
The last term is easily obtained sufficiently accurately from the curve already plotted , connecting resistance and height of mercury .
The volume of the liquid was obtained from the resistance , , as follows:\mdash ; Let be the resistance of the whole platinum loop in the burette at the " " standard temperature\ldquo ; ( i.e. , at the temperature of the loop when the calibration curve was prepared Let be the resistance of the platinum temperature coil at the salve " " standard temperature let be the resistance of part of the loop at the temperature of the observation , let be the resistance of the temperature coil at the same temperature of the observation , let be the fundamental interval of the loop , the fundamental interval of the temperature coil , the resistance at the standard temperature of the part of the loop which has the resistance , V , at the temperature of the observation .
Then The method of finding the values of , R. , , and has already been descnbed under the heading of Calibration .
This formula gives , and from .
the corresponding volume of the liquid was read ofl the calibration curve .
The exact temperature of the liquid was calculated from the resistance , ( the approximate platinum temperature ) , in the ordinary way .
The next step was to plot approximate volume/ temperature curves for each of the pressures at which readings had been taken , and , from the slopes Prof. C. F. Jenkin .
Dilatation of these curves , to calculate approximate temperature coefficients : Using these coefficients , the observed volumes were reduced to values corresponding to the exact temperatures aimed at in making the tests , viz. , , and PRESSURE lbs. The corrected volumes were then plotted against pressures , each set of observations corresponding to an exact temperature , and smooth curves drawn through the points .
The results were found to be remarkably consistent .
All the points ( except one , which was clearly a misreading ) lie very closely indeed on the smooth curves ; the average error from the Cornpressibility of Liquid arbonic Acid .
smooth curve of all the observations ( except the one mentioned ) is which is the minimum possible reading on the calibration curve , corresponding to 1/ 10 mm. ; it is less than one two-thousandth part of the volume measured ; the discrepancles are too small be shown in the figures reproduced .
Obseryations actually on the limit cannot be made hy this method , so that the position of the linlit curve is fixed on extrapolated curves .
At the lower temperatures there can be no appreciable error from cause , but at there may be a small error , and at the extrapolation is uncertain .
So far , all the volumes plotted were the actual volumes of the liquid in the burette ; they had now to be reduced to specific volumes .
For this pose , the specific volume of the liquid on the limit curve at C. assulned to be at , i.e. , the value found by Behn .
* The observed volumes were therefore reduced in the ratio of the observed volume at on the limit curve to ; specific volume and re-plotted ; the resulting curves are shown in fig. From these curves , the specific volumes at each even hundred pounds ur were plot , ted inst temperatures ; the results are in fig. 4 .
* Annalen der Physik , ' Ser. IV , vol. 3 , p. 733 ( 1900 ) .
VOL. Prof. C. F. Jenkin .
Dilatation and The results are tabulated in Table I , after applying the very small correction due to the temperature coefficient of the glass burette .
The slopes of eacJu set of curves were then measured and the true compressibilities , and temperature coefficients were calculated the results are exiven in Tables II and III .
These values are only given to two ( or sometimes three ) significant figures ; very slight alterations in the curves produce large changes in their slopes , and no reat accuracy can be claimed for the tabulated ( Tables II and III ) .
The of measuring the elasticity and dilatation is simple and direct , and does not appear to be liable to any serious errors .
The errors have been considered .
The mercury meniscus is concave towards the bulb while the volume calibration is made , but convex towards the bulb when it contains The actual content of the burette is therefore crer than the assumed value by twice the volume between the meniscus and a tangent plane on the top of it .
The height of the meniscus in air was found to be about mm. , and an outside estimate of this error shows that it is negligible .
The compression of the glass burette due to the difference between the internal and external pressures is negligible .
The compression of the glass due to the maximum pressure on it produces ible errors in the reading of the burette .
Friction of the mercury in the burette was entirely eliminated by a constant vibration due to want of alance of the pump propeller .
in the .\mdash ; In one of the early trials a serious difficulty occurred .
As the pressure was reduced , normal expansion of the liquid in the burette took place till the pressure was about 150 or 100 lb. .
in .
above the pressure , when suddenly the liquid began to expand rapidly , and the burette " " boiled over The cause of this over was traced to the presence of air dissolved in the liquid ; analysis showed that the gas contailled per cent. by volume of air , whereas the normal supply only contained per cent. On a later the same trouble when the gas was found to have per cent. of air in it .
whole stock of gas ( five cylinders ) in hand at tlJat time was then analysed and found to contain abnormally high of air .
After various trials it fuund possible to obtain air-free by blowing off a consider amount of gas from the top of the supply cylinder and then Compressibility of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
: 182 Dilatation and Compressibility of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
inverting it and drawing off liquid for use , from the bottom .
nalysis of obtained in this manner showed that there was not more than per cent. of air present .
Watcr.\mdash ; Experience has shown that drying flasks or tubes of calcium chloride do not completely dry the gas .
Ice always collects at points of low temperature , however carefully the gas has been dried .
An arithmetical error in the results of the tests at the fher temperatures made them appear.to fall decidedly ave Behn 's results , and a possible explanation appears to be the presence of water dissolved in the liquid .
A special series of measurements was therefore made on a specially ] ) repared sample of which was freed as far as possible from water by cooling it below centigrade .
The following method of freezing out the water was adopted : burette was filled with mercury and enclosed in the steel tube , and the whole with liquid in the usual manner , but before inverting the apparatus it was cooled to by the tube externally with chJoride , and kept at about that temperature for half an hour .
It may be supposed that any water old freeze out during this operation and be deposited as ice inside the steel tube .
To prevent ) ice forming where the mercury subsequently wash it off , a paper lining was put .
inside the steel tube extending about 3 inches from the bottom .
After half an hour 's freezing in this way the apparatus was inverted as usual so that the burette filled with the dried .
The mercury was sealed off the charge and the tube could be armed without any fear of water entering the burette .
The measurements made on this dried sample showed that the specific volumes were very slightly lower than those of the earlier samples , which probably contained traces of moisture .
After these results had been obtained the arithmetical error mentioned above was discovered , and explained the much larger discrepancies which these tests had been made to elucidate .
The curves and figures given for temperatures above zero refer to the specially dried alnple .
For all temperatures below zero the water must have frozen out , so that they too refer to dried samples .
The difference between the dried and wet samples above zero are quite small .
No information can be obtained from these small differences , because the amounts of water and air present in the actual samples tested cannot be determined .

