The immediate cause of this he takes to be a praeternatural thickness of the Blood occasioned by a beginning Coagulation of those parts of it , which constitute the Crassamentum , whereby the Globules of the Blood , and the particles of the Serum were imprisoned in a sort of Reticulum formed by the Union of the Fibres of the Blood .
The occasional Cause of this Sickness he deduces from the cold and wetness of the Season , which reigned all the preceeding Year from October 1710 , to November 1711 .
Which Observation is worthy of remark , since the Season preceeding the Mortality among the Cattle here in England was remarkably dry , and yet the Symptoms of the Distemper agreed with those observed in Italy , as may appear from the Account given by the Learned Mr. Bates , Surgeon to his Majesty 's Household in Philosophical Transactions , No. 358 For the particular manner in which this learned Gentleman endeavours to account Mechanically for the thickness of the Blood in these Animals , from the condition of the Season , and from that thickness of the Blood to deduce all the particular Symptoms of the Distemper , as likewise for his Conjectures concerning those Medicines , which might have been serviceable to the sick Cattle ; he not having made trial of any , we must refer the Curious to the Treatise it self .
An Account of a Book , entitled , Conghietture del Dottor Pietre Anton .
Michelotti , Filosofo , e Medico d ' Arco , sopra la Natura , Cagione e Rimedi dell ' infermita regnanti ne ' Animali Bovini di molte Citta , &amp;c. Nell ' Autunno del ' Anno cadente , 1711 .
In Venezia , 1712 .
THE Learned Author of this Discourse happening to spend some time in the Country about the Month of October , in the Year 1711 , took that opportunity of making a particular Enquiry into the circumstances of the Mortality , that then reigned among the Black Cattle in the Venetian Territories .
The result of which he gives in this relation , having been an Eye-Wittness to the greatest part of the Facts herein contained , and having received the rest upon the place from Persons of Integrity and Credit .
Almost all the sick Cattle refused every sort of Food and Drink , they hung their Heads , had shiverings in their Skin , and in their Limbs , they breathed with difficulty , and their Expiration in particular was attended with a sort of rattling noise , they were so feeble , that they could scarcely go or stand upon their Legs .
Some few of them eat a little , and drank very much ; others had Fluxes of Excrements variously coloured of a very offensive smell , and frequently tinged with Blood : Many of them had their Heads , and their Bellies swelled in such a manner , that , upon clapping them with the Hand on their Paunches ches , or along the Vertebrae of the Loins , they sounded like a dry Bladder when full blown .
In some the Urine was very turbid , in others of a bright flame Colour .
In comparing the Pulses of the sound Cattle with those of the diseased , he found the latter to be quicker and weaker .
There was but little heat perceivable by the touch in any of them , their Tongues were soft and moist , but their Breath was exceedingly offensive .
Besides these particulars he was informed by those , who attended the sick Cattle , and by other Persons worthy of Credit , that in some of these Beasts they had observed crude Tumors in several parts of the Body , as likewise watery Pustules and disorderly motions of the Head , with dry , black , and fissur 'd Tongues ; that in others of them they met with Tumours , that came to Maturation , putrid Matter issuing from the Mouth and Nostrils , Worms in the Faeces , and in the Eyes , bloody sweats , and the falling off of the Hair .
In comparing the Flesh of the Cattle dead of this Distemper , with that of others killed for the Market , he found the Muscles in the former lying immediately under the Skin to be something livid .
Having opened the three Cavities of the Body , he applied himself with the utmost diligence to examine the Brain with it 's Membranes ; the Trachaea , Oesophagus , Lungs , Heart with its Auricles , the Vena Cava , Aorta , and Diaphragm ; the Liver , Spleen and other parts of the lower Venter .
In all which there was no discernable difference , either as to figure , size , contents , situation , or connexion , with the neighbouring Parts , from what was observed in sound Cattle killed by the Butcher , except the particulars hereafter mentioned .
The Blood found in the Ventricles of the Heart , in the Pulmonary Vessels , in the Aorta and Cava ; though still warm , was considerably blackish , and near a Coagulation .
In opening the upper and middle Cavity , the scent was offensive , but tolerable enough , whereas the Stink , that proceeded from the lower Belly , was not to be endured without prejudice .
In some few Carcasses the Viscera differed from their natural State , with regard to their size , their consistence , their contents , colour and smell .
In many of them the Paunch was found very much contracted and dried , with a hard Substance contained in it .
In others the Lungs were swelled and livid , the Liver tumified , and the Brain watery and putrid .
Upon observing the abovesaid state of the Blood in the Cattle Dead of this Distemper , he was desirous to see what condition it was in , while the sick Beasts were yet living .
With which design having ordered several of them to be blooded , he found the Blood not to issue out of the Vessels in a continued Stream , as usual , but with a broken and interrupted Flux , one Part of the Blood not immediately succeeding another .
Having caus 'd the Blood to be received in proper Vessels , and suffered it to stand for some time , he found it entirely coagulated , without any Separation of the Serum , and attached to the sides of the Vessels , with a reticular Pellicle upon the Surface exposed to the Air .
All the Cattle which were blooded , being Eighteen in Number , died in a few days after the bleeding , one only excepted , in which the Vein was opened upon its being first taken ill .
Having enumerated all the Symptoms of the Distemper , the Author concludes from the whole , that the Sickness among the Cattle was a Malignant Pestilential Fever , killing almost all those that were infected with it .

