PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
" Preliminary Note on the Use of Chloroform in the Preparation of Vaccine .
" By Alan B. Green , M.A. , M.D. ( Cantab ) .
Communicated by W. H. Power , M.D. , F.B.S. Eeceived April 16 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1903 .
( From the Government Lymph Laboratories .
) It is well known that glycerine exerts an action on vaccine whereby the extraneous bacteria are eliminated in the course of a few weeks , while the specific germ undergoes no undue deterioration from the process .
I have found that by the use of a solution of chloroform in distilled water , the extraneous bacteria of vaccine are eliminated in from one to six hours , the specific germ remaining fully potent for vaccination .
The solution of chloroform that can most advantageously be employed in the preparation of vaccine is a saturated solution in distilled water , having a strength of 1 in 200 .
This is the limit of such solubility .
The following method of using such solution has so far given the best results :\#151 ; Vaccine emulsion is first prepared by triturating vaccine pulp with distilled water .
The presence of the water is , in order that later chloroform may enter into solution with it .
About three parts by weight of water should be mixed with one part by weight of pulp .
Should a more viscid emulsion of vaccine be desired , glycerine may be added without interfering with the action of the chloroform .
I have found that the usual admixture of one part by weight of vaccine pulp and four parts by weight of a solution consisting of equal parts by weight of glycerine and water forms a perfectly suitable emulsion for this process .
But glycerine is incapable of dissolving chloroform , and the elimination of extraneous bacteria by this chloroform process VOL LXXII .
\#166 ; B 2 Dr. A. B. Green .
On Use of [ Apr. 16 , is solely due to the action of chloroform water .
Indeed , when addition of glycerine to the vaccine emulsion is desired , it can be very advantageously effected after the completion of this process .
The newly-made vaccine emulsion , to be subjected to the action of chloroform , is dealt with in the following way:\#151 ; Sterile air is first passed through pure liquid chloroform , whereby this air becomes charged with chloroform vapour .
This mixture of air and chloroform vapour is then passed through the vaccine emulsion , which is contained in a cylindrical glass vessel of test-tube shape , and in size suitable to the quantity of vaccine to be treated .
The mixed chloroform vapour and air can be passed seriatim through a number of tubes of vaccine before it finally escapes into the outside air , and it is efficient for all of them , provided that the current be sufficiently strong to keep the contents of each tube in active movement , and that a distinct smell of chloroform be apparent at the outlet of the last tube of the series .
It is essential that no liquid chloroform be allowed to pass over into the vaccine , as its presence is strongly inimical to the potency of the lymph .
To obviate the chance of such an accident an overflow bottle , weighted with sterile sand , is interposed between the bottle of liquid chloroform and the tube or tubes of vaccine emulsion .
By passage through it of chloroform vapour and air , the water of the vaccine emulsion quickly becomes saturated with chloroform , and this strength of solution is maintained so long as such passage is continued .
When saturation is reached all excess of chloroform immediately escapes automatically from the vaccine .
Thus the vaccine is not at any time brought into contact with a stronger solution of chloroform than 1 in 200 in water .
A rapid and marked germicidal action is exerted on the non-sporebearing extraneous bacteria of vaccine thus treated .
The extraneous bacteria most commonly found in vaccines at the Government laboratories are Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus , Staphylococcus pyogenes albus , Staphylococcus cereus flavus , Staphylococcus cereus albus .
Others which occur either in smaller numbers or less commonly are Staphylococcus pyogenes citreus , Proteus vulgaris , Streptococcus pyogenes , Sarcina lutea , and some yeasts .
Emulsions , which have contained as many as 100,000 extraneous micro-organisms per platinum loopful at the time of mixture , have , by the action of chloroform water , become free front their presence in from 1\#151 ; 6 hours .
This freedom is evidenced by absence of bacterial growth in aerobic and anaerobic plate cultures .
The germicidal action is first exerted on the least resistant members of each species of organism present in the vaccine .
Generally after the first hour or hour and a half of the process , a very few of the more resistant staphylococci\#151 ; aureus and albus\#151 ; remain alive ; these give rise to small inhibited colonies in plate cultures .
And these 1903 .
] Chloroform in the Preparation of Vaccine .
organisms succumb in their turn after further application of the process .
By contrast , elimination in like degree of the extraneous microorganisms of vaccine by the glycerine process rarely occurs before the fourth week after mixture , and is frequently not complete until a much later period , as shown by similar plate cultures .
After elimination of extraneous bacteria from chloroformed vaccines , the chloroform is evaporated until no trace remains .
Such evaporation is most quickly effected by passing a stream of sterile air through the emulsion .
By the above method vaccine can be brought under the influence of the germicide for such time only as suffices to kill the extraneous micro-organisms .
At present , however , there is no evidence to show that more prolonged contact with 1 in 200 watery chloroform solution has any harmful effect on its potency .
As in the case of glycerine , non-spore-bearing bacteria in vaccine lymph are alone killed by this process .
But in some thousands of vaccines examined at the Government Lymph Laboratories , the only spore-bearing organisms found in vaccine were the strictly non-pathogenic organisms of the mesenteric group\#151 ; Bacillus vulgatus , Bacillus mesentericus fuscus , Bacillus mesentericus , Bacillus subtilis\#151 ; and equally non-pathogenic moulds such as glaucum .
The practical working value of the foregoing method has been clearly shown by results of vaccinations performed with vaccines which have been thus , subjected to the action of chloroform .
These vaccines , having been rendered free from extraneous micro-organisms , were first tested on calves and found to give excellent results .
Within a fortnight after collection from the calf and of subjection to the action of chloroform water , such vaccines have been used ( after evaporation from them of all chloroform ) for primary vaccinations and re-vaccinations with results of high " case " and " insertion " success .
It would seem , therefore , that the following considerable advantages are to be gained by the use of the chloroform process :\#151 ; ( a ) So speedy an elimination of extraneous micro-organisms is attained that vaccine , practically free from such organisms , can be distributed for use within a few hours of its collection from the calf .
In times of urgent demand for large quantities of vaccine , such as occur during small-pox epidemics , this process must needs prove of great value , since the necessity for wasting some weeks for elimination of extraneous organisms by glycerine will be done away with .
( b ) In so far as the vaccination value of vaccine depends on the activity of a living organism , deterioration of that value must occur in the course of a longer or shorter time .
The potency of some vaccines , glycerinated or otherwise , becomes greatly impaired within B 2 4 Use of Chloroform in the Pre of Vaccine .
[ Apr. 16 , a few weeks of collection , that is within the time required for glycerine to exert fully its influence in eliminating extraneous organisms .
Some of these vaccines may , at the time of their collection , have possessed a high vaccination value .
Vaccine , characterised by this high but somewhat transient potency , -can , by means of the chloroform process , be used at once , before its activity has deteriorated , thus allowing greater economy of vaccine material than would otherwise be possible .
( c ) For a similar reason the chloroform process might be of considerable use in hot climates where the preservation of the potency of vaccine is frequently a matter of considerable difficulty .
Experiments are at present being made to test the duration of the potency of chloroformed vaccines .
A further account of this process will.be given in the Report for 1902\#151 ; 1903 of the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board .
In conclusion I wish to express my indebtedness and thanks to Dr. F. R. Blaxall for the generous help and advice he has given me .
My thanks are likewise due to Mr. H. S. Fremlin , with whom I am also associated in the work of these laboratories , and to Mr. S. D. Rowland , of the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine , for the help he has afforded me .

