X III .
" On Axes of Elasticity and Crystalline Forms .
" By W. J. MACQUOiN RANKINE , C.E. , F.R.SS .
L. &amp; E. &amp;c. Received June 14 , 1855 .
An Axis OF ELASTICITY is any direction with respect to which any kind of elastic force is symmetrical .
In this paper the deviation of a molecule of a solid from that condition as to volume and figure which it preserves when free from the action of external forces , is denoted by the word " Strain , " and the corresponding effort of the molecule to recover its free volume and figure by the word " Stress .
" In devising a nomenclature for quantities relating to the theory of elasticity , strain is denoted in composition by 'Xi^s , and stress by TratLS .
Every possible strain of a molecule , when referred to rectangular axes , may be resolved into six elementary strains ; three elongations or linear compressions , and three distortions .
Every possible stress , when referred to rectangular axes , may be resolved into six elementary stresses ; three normal pressures , and three tangential pressures , which tend to diminish the corresponding elementary strains .
The elementary strains being in fact approximately linear functions of the elementary stresses , are treated in this investigation as exactly so .
The sum of the six integrals of the elementary stresses , each taken with respect to the corresponding elementary strain from its actual amount to zero , is the Potential Energy of Elasticity , and is a homogeneous function of the elementary strains of the second order , and of twenty-one terms , whose constant coefficients are here called the Tasinomic Coeficients , or coefficients of Elasticity .
The principles of the Calculus of Forms , and in particular the Umbral Notation of Mr. Sylvester , are applied to the Orthogonal Transformations of the Tasinomic Coefficients .
Several functions of these coefficients are determined , called Tasinomic Invariants , which are equal for all systems of orthogonal axes in the same solid .
Certain functions of the Tasinomic Coefficients constitute the coefficients of two Tasinomic Ellipsoids , designated respectively as the Orthotatic and Heterotatic Ellipsoids , whose axes have the fol. lowing properties .
ORTHOTATIC AXES .
At each point of an elastic solid there is one position in which a cubical molecule may ' be cut out , such , that a uniform dilatation or condensation of that molecule by equal elongations or compressions of its three axes , will produce no tangential stress at the faces of the molecule .
The existence of orthotatic axes in a solid constituted of mutually attracting and repelling physical points was first proved by Mr. Haughton ; it is proved in this paper independently of any hypothesis as to molecular structure or action .
HETEROTATIC AXES .
At each point of an elastic solid there is one position in which a cubical molecule may be cut out , such , that if there be a distortion of that molecule round x ( x being any one of its axes ) and an equal distortion round y ( y being either of its other two axes ) , the normal stress on the faces normal to x arising from the distortion round x , will be equal to the tangential stress around z arising from the distortion round y. The six coefficients of the Heterotatic Ellipsoid represent parts of the elasticity of a solid which it is impossible to reduce to attractions and repulsions between points .
Fifteen constants called the Homotatic Coefficients , which are composed of Tasinomic Coefficients and their linear functions so constituted as to be independent of the Heterotatic Coefficients , are the coefficients of the fifteen terms of a homogeneous biquadratic function of the coordinates , which being equated to unity , characterizes the Biquadratic Tasinomic Surface .
This surface , for solids composed of physical points , was discovered by Mr. Haughton ; it is here investigated independently of all hypothesis .
By rectangular linear transformations , three functions of the Homotatic Coefficients may be made to vanish .
Three orthogonal axes are thus found , which are called the Principal Metatattic Axes , and have the following property : if there be a linear elongation along any one of these axes , and an equal linear compression along any other , no tangential stress will result on planes normal to these two axes .
In each of the three planes of the principal Metatatic Axes , there is a pair of Diagonal Metatatic Axes bisecting the right angles formed by the pair of principal axes in the same plane .
In each plane in an elastic solid , there is a system of two pairs of metatatic axes , making with each other eight equal angles of 45 ? .
Various kinds and degrees of symmetry are pointed out , which the tasinomic coefficients may have with respect to orthogonal axes .
The Potential Energy of Elasticity may be expressed as a homogeneous function of the second order of the Elementary Stresses .
The twenty-one coefficients of this function are called Thipsinomic Coefficients .
The Thipsinomic and Tasinomic Coefficients are related to each other as Contragredient Systems .
The Orthogonal and Diagonal Tasinomic and Thipsinomic Axes coincide .
For the complete determination of the properties of the Homotatic Coefficients , it is necessary to refer them to oblique axes of coordinates .
The application of oblique co-ordinates to this purpose is much facilitated by the employment along with them of three auxiliary variables called Contra-ordinates .
The contra-ordinates of a point t are the projections of the radius-vector OR on the three axes .
For rectangular axes , co-ordinates and contra-ordinates are identical .
The co-ordinates x , y , z and contra-ordinates u , v , w of a point R are connected by the equation ux + vi +wzOR .
As there are six independent quantities in the directions of a system of three axes of indefinite obliquity , there is a system of right or oblique axes in every solid for which six of the coefficients of the characteristic function of the Biquadratic surface disappear , reducing that function to its canonical form of nine terms .
These three axes are called the PRINCIPAL ENTHYTATIC AXES .
Every Enthytatic axis has this property , that a direct linear elongation or compression along such an axis , produces a normal stress , and no oblique or tangential stress on a plane normal to the same axis .
Every Enthytatic axis is normal to the Biquadratic Surface , and is a line along which the direct elasticity of the body is either a maximum or a minimum , or in that condition which combines the properties of maximum and minimum .
It is probable that the faces or edges of primitive crystalline forms are normal to Enthytatic axes , and that the planes of cleavage in crystals are normal to Enthytatic axes of minimum elasticity .
It is also probable that the symmetrical summits of crystals correspond to Enthytatic axes .
There are , in every solid , at least the three principal Enthytatic Axes , which are normal to the faces of a hexahedron , right or oblique as the case may be .
In certain cases of symmetry of these axes and of the Homotatic Coefficients , there are Secondary or Additional .
Ethytatic Axes , which are determined by the following principles : 1 .
When the three principal axes and the Homotatic Coefficients are symmetrical round a central axis , that axis is an additional Enthytatic axis .
2 .
When there are a pair of orthogonal Enthytatic axes in a given plane , there may be , under certain conditions specified in the paper , a pair of additional or secondary axes in that plane , making with each other a pair of angles bisected by the orthogonal axes .
In the first column of a table , the possible systems of Enthytatic axes are arranged according to a classification and nomenclature of their degrees and kinds of symmetry ; and in the second and third columns are stated the primitive crystalline forms to the faces and edges of which such systems of axes are respectively normal , and which embrace all the primitive forms known in crystallography .
The six Heterotatic Coefficients are independent of the fifteen Homotatic Coefficcients which determine the Enthytatic axes .
The paper concludes with observations on some real and alleged differences between the laws of solid elasticity and those of the luminiferous force , -on some hypotheses in connexion with the wave-theory of light , and on the refraction of light in crystals as connected with the symmetry of their Enthytatic axes .

