A paper was read , entitled , " A Relation of the case of Thomas Hardy Kirman , with remarks on Corpulence .
" By Thomas Joseph Pettigrew , Esq. F.R.S. The subject of this communication , T. H. Kirman , was born at Barrow Mill , near Barton-upon-Humber , in Lincolnshire , on the 18th of April 1821 .
His father , who is a miller , is of middle stature , but inclined to corpulency ; his mother tail and stout ; and both perfectly healthy .
Their son Thomas was not remarkable at the time of his birth for any peculiarity either in size or strength .
He has en ?
joyed uniform health , excepting that when six years old he fractured his thigh , and was in consequence confined for five weeks to his bed - .
on rising from which , by an imprudent exertion , he injured his knee , and was obliged to lie upon a couch for five or six weeks longer .
It was during this period of inactivity that he was first observed to in ?
crease much , both in bulk and height .
This increase has since been progressive ?
and especially rapid during the last twelve months .
At the present time , at which he is within two months of being twelve years old , he measures five feet one inch in height , and weighs one hundred and ninety .
eight pounds .
He measures round the chest 4a| inches , round the abdomen 44 inches , round the pelvis 48 ?
inches , round the thigh 27 inches , round the calf of the leg 18 ?
inches , round the upper arm 13 inches , round the fore arm 11^ inches , round the wrist 7 inches , and across the shoulders 19 inches .
The fat deposited is of firm consistence , and the muscular frame is strongly developed .
His size occasions him at present but little in ?
convenience ; his appetite and sleep are moderate ; his habits and sports perfectly juvenile , and there is no appearance of puberty .
He has a brother and two sisters , who are all of the ordinary height and size .
This account is followed by remarks on the subject of corpulency .
The author observes , that this habit of body is most frequently met with in marshy districts , and has an apparent relation with the humidity of the climate .
It is much more prevalent in England than in France or the South of Europe .
It may often be traced to hereditary predisposition , and is promoted by tranquillity and cheerfulness of mind , and equability of temper , by full living , the use of fermented liquors , and of certain articles of diet containing much nutritious matter , and also by inaction of body , whether the result of natural indolence , or , as was originally the case in the present instance , of necessary confinement .
Various other circumstances are enumerated by the author as favouring the accumulation of fat ; and various expedients pointed out for obviating this morbid tendency , founded on the principles of diminishing the supply of nutriment , of increasing the tone of the sy ?
stem , and stimulating it to greater activity .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " Experimental Determination of the Laws of Magneto-electric Induction in different masses of the same Metal , and of its Intensity in different Metals , '* by Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. , was commenced .

