A paper was read , entitled , " An Account of a line of Levels , carried across Northern Syria , from the Mediterranean Sea to the River Euphrates .
" By Wiliiam Taylor Thomson , Esq. , with Geological and Botanical Notes , by Wiliiam Ainsworth , Esq. Communicated by Captain Beaufort , R.N. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The operation of carrying a line of levels across Northern Syria , from the Mediterranean sea to the river Euphrates , was undertaken by Colonel Chesney , at the time he commanded the expedition sent to that river in the year 1835 , chiefly with a view to determine the capabilities of the intervening country for the establishment of communications by roads , railways , or canals ; but it was expected also that the examination would afford information of much historical and geographical interest .
It was commenced in August of the same year , by Lieutenant Murphy and Mr. Thomson , assisted by Sergeant Lyne , R.E. , Gunner Waddell , and some Maltese : but most of the party being disabled by sickness , and their numbers reduced by deaths and removals , the levelling was at length conducted principally by Mr. Thomson , with the assistance , in the latter part of the work , of Mr. Elliott , commonly called Dervish Ali .
The result of this great labour was to determine the bed of the Euphrates to be 628 feet above the level of the Mediterranean .
The whole of the district over which the line of levels was carried naturally divides itself into four regions , each of which is characterized by its relative elevation , its peculiar geological structure , its vegetation , and the manners and habits of its population .
The first region , commencing from the Euphrates , comprises the country of the upper chalk and conide limestones , which averages an elevation of 1300 feet , and is but slightly undulated .
The soil is light , somewhat stony , and of no great depth , and is highly productive in crops of corn and cotton .
These uplands are inhabited by stationary Turcomans and Arabs , who are a mixed race of Fellahs .
The large plains of this region are studded over in every direction with numerous mounds , of a more or less circular form , called by the Arabs Tets , and by the Turcomans Heuks , the origin of which appears to be partly natural and partly artificial .
A village is found at the foot of almost every one of these monticulcs .
The second region comprises the country of ostracite limestone and feldspath pyroxenic rocks , in the valley of Ghuidaries and the Aphrean , having a mean elevation of 450 feet .
This district is ex ?
tremely fertile , for the most part cultivated , and inhabited by agricultural Kurds .
The third region is the lacustrine plain of Umk , elevated about 305 feet above the Mediterranean , and covered , for the most part , with the gramineous plants which feed the flocks of the pastoral and nomadic Turcomans .
The fourth region , formed by the valley of Antioch , is rocky , irregular , and varying from elevations of 220 to 440 feet .
It com ?
prises also the alluvial plain of the Orontes , which gradually sinks to the level of the Mediterranean .
This latter district is covered with shrubs , which are chiefly evergreens ; and inhabited by a few families of Syrians , who , in these picturesque solitudes , chiefly follow mysterious rites , presenting a mixture of Mahomedanism and Christianity .
It appears , from the examination of this line of country , that there here exist two distinct regions , the one low and already furnished with the means of water transport ; and the other elevated , where the waters , which are lost in the valley of Aleppo , might be turned with facility into an artificial channel .
Both regions are remarkably level , and present , when separately viewed , very few diffi ?
culties to be overcome for the construction of artificial roads .

