]\gt ; 1873 .
] On the Motion of a Body about a Fixed Point .
III .
Some new Theorems on the Motion of a Body about a Fixed Point .
By EDWARD JOHN F.R.S. Received December 1872 .
Poinsot constructs the motion of a rigid body about a fixed point under the action of no forces by means of an ellipsoid which has its centre at the fixed point and rolls on a fixed plane .
In this manner the relations of the invariable lin , and the instantaneous axis to each other and to the other parts of the , may be found by solid geometry .
It is evident that in mnny cases these relations are merely translations into the language of solid geometry of certain properties of the spherical ellipse .
In trying to make use of the spherical ellipse in a general manner , I have been led to some theorems which I think are interesting , and which seem to be new .
In what follows I shall restrict myself almost entirely to these results .
1 .
Let a body be turning about a fixed point under the action of no forces , and let the angular velocities about the principal axes at be .
Also let be the principal moments at the fixed point ; then we know that if we put and are constant ghout the motion , and is the resultant angular velocity .
2 .
There are straight lines whose motions we may consider : ( 1 ) the Instautaneous direction cosiues are ; ( 2 ) the Invariable , whose direction cosines are , ; ( 3 ) the Eccentric axis , }hose direction cosines are .
This lasl axis is ths eccentric line of the instantaneous axis regard to the momental ellipsoid at the fixed point , or , which is the same thing , the eccentric line of the invnriable axis to the ellipsoid of tion .
Let a sphere of rndius unity be described whose centre is , fixed in the body and therefore moving ith it .
Lct these three axes eut the sphere respectively in the poiuls I , .
Let the axes at cut the sphere in , C. is our object to discuss the motions of I , relatively to space .
3 .
The to the concs described in the body by OI , OG , OH respectively are VOL. XKI .
Mr. E. J. Routh on the Motion [ Mar. It is clear that the three points describe spherical ellipses on ffie sphere of radius unity .
We know that lies between the greatest , and the , of the principal moments of inertia ; let us suppose that it is also greater than the mean principal moment B. In this case the concavities of the three ellipses will be towards the point .
the point where the axis of greatest moment cuts the sphere .
This point is therefore to be regarded as the common centre of the three ellipses .
If , the common centre would be the intersection of the axis of moment with the sphere .
In the figure the eye is supposed situated on the axis of greatest moment , viewin the sphere from a considerable distance .
All great circles on the sphere are represented by straight lines .
The semiaxes A , A of the eccentric ellipse are evidently given by cotan the semiaxes of the instantaneous ellipse and invariable ellipse respectively , we have Thus it appears that the ratios of the tangents of the semiaxes are inclependent of the initial conditions .
If we put , we may define to be the eccentricity of the sm invariable ellipse .
If be the eccentricity of the eccentric ellipse , we easily find ; so that both these eccentricities are independent of the initial conditions .
1873 .
] of a Body about a Fixed Point .
4 .
Since the body is turning about I as instantaneous axis , it is evident thnt the motion of in the body is perpendicular to the great circle I G. Hence is a normal to the invariable 5 .
If be the ngular velocity of the body , the angular velocity of OG is siu .
But the resolved ngular }elocity of the body about OG is constant , and by a theorem due to Lagrange .
Hence the veloof ihe invari pble line ) its .
Also the rengular clocity of the body is 6 .
the circle cuf the axis major in , so that is a the ariable ellipse .
Beferring the lines to the principal axes at the point axes , the direction cosines of OG , sily seeu to be to , .
Hence Substituting their terms of But \mdash ; .
It 's at once thnt the ratio is tstant the .
It also ] baf the of invariable line along its bears a to the tangent of length of the to the beitoeen cnrne and either axis .
7 .
Lct us find the motion of invariable referred to one focus , , of the ellipse ribed by it .
vclocity of resolved to the focnl radius vector is , what 1 Tt Inay b that in any spheric.al ellipse the projection of the normal on either radius is constant .
If this constant be called we have 286 Mr. E. J. Routh on the Motion [ Mar. 20 , If , therefore , NL be a perpendicular arc from on , we have GN Hence the resolved velocity of tall l Hence throughout the motion the extremity of the invariable axis along its dlipse in sueh a manner that its vdocity resolved perpendicular to the focal radius veetor SG is constant .
8 .
Let us next find the velocity of resolved along the focal radius vector .
Let ; then the polar equation to a spherical ellipse may be proved to be Dffierentiating this , we get But the value of , being the velocity of perpendicular to the radius vector , has just been found .
Also if GM be drawn as an ordinate perpendicular to the major axis , we have GM .
Hence , substituting from art .
3 , we get Hence velocity of resolved along either focal radius vector bears to the sine of the ordinate of a ratio which is constant throughout the notion .
This constant , when divided by the resultant angular momentum , inde- pendent of the initial conditions .
9 .
We may also refer the motion of to the centre its ellipse .
The velocity of along its ellipse being , the resolved velocity perpendicular to AG is GN .
AGN .
But if AF be an arc drawn from A perpendicular to , we have , by Napier 's rules , AGN AG ; in any spherical ellipse we have 1873 .
] of a Body about a Fixed Point .
Eliminating AGN and , we have velocity of of pendicnlar to its central radius vector varies as the of vector .
Jf be perpendiculal .
arcs from on the axcs , we may sh th the vcloeity of resolved along its central radius vector is .
This resuIt may bs deduced from one of Euler 's lations . .
The tions of motions of the , I to one aIJotber may eaFIily be deduced from the simple formulae .
If from the expressionS for the direction cosincs of OG .
OH , OI , and by theorem , If any point on the sphere , have , by ules , this we easily deduce are the { the radii vecforcs AI , AG , AH the axis .
11 .
Let us ] ) theso to find the motion of the extremity I of the instantancous axis its ellipse .
Differ the expression get If , be the dircction anglcs of OG nnd OI referred fo the axes , we 's ruIes , has been already found .
lfence AT\mdash ; G2 1 This the perpcndicular to .
The eIocity along its 238 Mr. E. J. Routh on the Motion [ Mar. ellipse may be found by dividing this by , where IN ' is a normal to the instantaneous axis cutting the major axis in .
By a property the spherical ellipse proved above , we have AIN ' Hence , substituting , velocity of I GI along its ellipse AB where is the length of the normal to the instantaneous ellipse intercepted between the curve and the major axis .
12 .
If we compare this formula with the corresponding formula for the velocity of velocity of along its ellipse we see that for every theorem relating to the motion of in its dlipse there is a corresponding theorem for the motion of I. For example , if be a focus of the instantaneous ellipse , we see that the velocity of I resolved perpendicular to the focal radius vector bears a constant ratio to This constant ratio is 13 .
From the two formulae for the velocities of and I we may easily deduce 14 .
We may apply the same kind of reasoning to find the motion of along the eccentric ellipse .
Beginning with , we find velocity of where is the length of the normal to the eccentric ellipse intercepted between the curve and the major axis .
Hence the velocity of the eccentric line its elhpse as the tangent of the normal to its path .
15 .
It may be proved that in any spherical ellipse , where is the central radius vector , and the length of the normal .
By using this formula we easily find velocity of velocity constant .
This constant is 1873 .
] of a Body about a Fixed Point .
16 .
The invariable axis OG being fixed iu space , it will be usefuI to find the motion of I to G. Let the dius of of the spherical ellipse described by , illld let .
Thell of I to GI But it may be ) that any eJlipse ; here is the of the normal , and the length of the latus rectum .
for , and remembering that the ratio ' get of I about elocity where and l ) of the ellipse described by G. If we substitule for ) their get angular of hich : 1 ma put this other form .
Substituting in art .
15 for the velocity of , we get an expression for the velocity of in terms of Comparing it with the above result , we get angnla volocity of I in space about velocity of 18 .
in space the arcs , GS be :\mdash ; Let be the ngle described by ; then , as proved in books on Rigid amics , Let be the angle GAD , then it has been above ( art .
9 ) that AG ; AG .
On the Motion of a Body about a Fixed Point .
[ Mar. 20 , Hence , integratin , we get By subtracting the nngle SGA , we get , if be the angle described by GS in space , The following propelties of the spherical ellipse will be useful in connexion with what precedes .
I have not been able to find them anywhere .
1 .
Equation to the ellipse , ' Here is the eccentric ordinate and is constant .
2 .
The projection of the normal GN on the focal radius vector SG , .
GL is coIlstant and equal to semilatus rectum .
If semilatus rectum , ; also constant .
3 .
If HAF cut GN at right angles , 4 .
The length GK cut the focal radius vector by the conjugate diameter is constant and equal to This follows from ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) .
5 .
If , then GM being an ordinate perpendicular to AN , AM .
6 .
Also being a focus , AM .
7 .
Polar equation to the ellipse , 1873 .
] On the Radiation of Heat from the Moon .
8 .
If be the dius of curvature , 9 .
Rcgarding AG , AH as conjugqte meters , 10 .
be the perpendicular from A on the tallgent at .
11 .
12 . .
March 27 , 1873 .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
as of , and seconded by Dr. Sharpey , \mdash ; That ) ) of the be Dr. Bence Jones for his of a of THE BAKLR On the Radiation of Heat from the Moon , the of its Absorption by our Atmosphere , and its val.iation in amollnt with her Phases By the EARL or ROSSE , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. February 1873 .
In this paper is of scries of ions made in the , in further prosec.ufion of a shorter and less carefully conducted investigation , as gards m details , which forms the ) tv former to the Boyal Society .
The ahons vere first corrected for of the moon 's distance from the plac of observation and change of phase during the continuance of each night 's work , and ths a curve , hose ordinates represented the -readings ( corrected ) hose abscissae represented the corresponding , was for each night 's work .
By combining * Proceedings of the ltoyal Socicty , vol. xvii .
p. 436 , vol. .
p. 9 .

