II .
" On an Aplanatic Searcher , and its Effects in improving HighPower Definition in the Microscope .
) By G. Wi .
ROYsTONPIGOTT , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
, M.R.C.P. , F.R.A.S. , F.C.P.S. , formerly Fellow of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. STOKEs , Sec. RI .
S. ileceived March 31 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The Aplanatic Searcher is intended to improve the penetration , amplify magnifying-power , intensify definition , and raise the objective somewhat further from its dangerous proximity to the delicate covering-glass indispensable to the observation of objects under very high powers .
The inquiry into the practicability of improving the performance of microscopic object-glasses of the very finest known quality was suggested by an accidental resolution in 1862 of the Podura markings into black beads .
This led to a search for the cause of defective definition , if any existed .
A variety of first-class objectives , from the -K^ to the -1 , failed to show the beading , although most carefully constructed by Messrs. Powell and Lealand .
Experiments having been instituted on the nature of the errors , it was found that the instrument required a better distribution of power ; instead of depending upon the deepest eyepieces and most powerful objectives hitherto constructed , that better effects could be produced by regulating a more gradual bending or refraction of the excentrical rays emanating from a brilliant microscopic origin of light .
It then appeared that delusive images , which the writer has ventured to name eidola* , exist in close proximity to the best focal point ( where the least circle of confusion finds its locus ) .
( I. ) That these images , possessing extraordinary characters , exist principally above or below the best focal point , according as the objective spherical aberration is positive or negative .
( II .
) That test-images may be formed of a high order of delicacy and accurate portraiture in miniature , by employing an objective of twice the focal depth , or , rather , half the focal length of the observing objective .
( III .
) That such test-images ( which may be obtained conveniently two thousand times less than a known original ) are formed ( under precautions ) with a remarkable freedom from aberration , which appears to be reduced in the miniature to a minimum .
( IV .
) The beauty or indistinctness with which they are displayed ( especially on the immersion system ) is a marvellous test of the correction of the observing objective , but an indifferent one of the image-forming objective used to produce the testing miniature .
These results enable the observer to compare the known with the unknown .
By observing a variety of brilliant images of known objects , as gauze , lace , an ivory thermometer , and sparkles of mercury , all formed il the focus of the objective to be tested with the microscope properly adjusted so that the axes of the two objectives may be coincident , and their corrections suitably manipulated , it is practicable to compare known delusions with suspected phenomena .
It was then observed ( by means of such appliances ) that the aberration developed by high-power eyepieces and a lengthened tube followed a peculiar law .
A. A lengthened tube increased aberration faster than it gained power ( roughly the aberration varied as v2 , while the power varied as v ) .
B. As the image was formed by the objective at points nearer to it than the standard distance of nine inches , for which the best English glasses are corrected , the writer found the aberration diminished faster than the power was lost , by shortening the body of the instrument .
C. The aberration became negatively affected , and required a positive compensation .
P. Frequent consideration of the equations for aplanatism suggested the ' From eitwXov , a false spectral image .
idea of searching the axis of the instrument for aplanatic foci , and that many such foci would probably be found to exist in proportion to the number of terms in the equations ( involving curvatures and positions ) .
E. The law was then ascertained that power could be raised , and definition intensified , by positively correcting the searching lenses in proportion as they approached the objective , at the same time applying a similar correction to the observing objective .
The chief results hitherto obtained may be thus summarized .
The writer measured the distance gained by the aplanatic searcher , whilst observing with a half-inch objective with a power of seven hundred diameters , and found it two-tenths of an inch increase ; so that optical penetration was attainable with this high power through plate-glass nearly one quarter of an inch thick , whilst visual focal depth was proportionably increased .
The aplanatic searcher increases the power of the microscope from two and a half to five times the usual power obtained with a third or C eyepiece of one inch focal length .
The eighth thus acquires the power of a twenty-fifth , the penetration of a one-fourth .
And at the same time the lowest possible eyepiece ( 3-inch focus ) is substituted for the deep eyepiece formed of minute lenses , and guarded with a minutely perforated cap. The writer lately exhibited to Messrs. Powell and Lealand a brilliant definition , under a power of four thousand diameters , with their new 'eighth immersion " lens , by means of the searcher and low eyepiece .
The traverse of the aplanatic searcher introduces remarkable chromatic corrections displayed in the unexpected colouring developed in microscopic test-objects .
The singular properties or , rather , phenomena shown by eidola , enable the practised observer in many cases to distinguish between true and delusive appearances , especially when aided by the aberrameter applied to the objective to display excentrical aberration by cutting off excentrical rays .
Eidola are symmetrically placed on each side of the best focal point , as ascertained by the aberrameter when the compensations have attained a delicate balance of opposite corrections .
If the beading , for instance , of a test-object exists in two contiguous parallel planes , the eidola of one set is commingled with the true image of the other .
But the upper or lower set may be separately displayed , either by depressing the false eidola of the lower stratum , or elevating the eidola of the upper ; for when the eidola of two contiguous strata are intermingled , correct definition is impossible so long as the aperture of the objective remains considerable .
One other result accrues : when an objective , otherwise excellent , cannot * Alluded to by Mr. Read , F.R.S. , in the 'Popular Soience Review ' for April 1870 .
2c be further corrected , the component glasses being already closely screwed up together , a further correction can be applied by means of the adjustments of the aplanatic searcher itself , all of which are essentially conjugate with the actions of the objective and the variable positions of its component lenses ; so that if 3t be the traversing movements of the objective lenses , Zv that of the searcher , F the focal distance of the image from the objective when cx vanishes , f the focal distance of the virtual image formed by the facet lenses of the objective , ^x V The appendix refers to plates illustrating the mechanical arrangements for the discrimination of eidola and true images , and for traversing the lenses of the aplanatic searcher .
The plates also show the course of the optical pencils , spurious disks of residuary aberration and imperfect definition , as well as some examples of " high-power resolution " of the Podura and Lepisma beading , as well as the amount of amplification obtained by Camera-Lucida outline drawings of a given scale .

