]\gt ; Mr. F. W. Dyson .
[ Apr. 20 , advance towards the more refrangible parts of the spectrum in the inverse order of their atomic weights .
* The correlation of the spectral reactions of thallium , indium , and gallium with the other properties of these elements is of further interest from the fact that their arc spectra ( below the ultra-violet ) are represented by homologous pairs of lines in the order of their atomic weights .
Tl ; , 5.349 .
In ; A4510 , 4101 .
Ga , 4031 .
The intervals of space between each homologous pair of lines , as will be seen , increase in the same order .
These relavions are further reprebented in the subjoined diagram , reduced from the scale of ngstrom 's normal spectrum .
It would be interesting to know if the arc spectrum of scandium is represented by a similar pair of lines in the ultra-violst , as I have already ed in the paper referred to before this elementary substance was discovered . .
" " The Potential of an Anchor Ring By F. W. M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Isaac Student in the of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. HOMSON , .
Received March 16 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
This paper is a continuation of some lesearches ou rings } in the ' Phil. Trans 1893 .
In that paper the potential of an anchor was found at all points ; here it is determined for irtternal points .
The annlllar form of rotating gravitating fluid was considered ; the stability of such a ring is investigated here .
In addition , the potential of a ring of elliptic cross-section , being of interest in connexion with Saturn , is obtained .
Besides this , the similarity of the methods and of the analysis employed has led me to put in paper also the determination of the steady motion of a single vortex ring of finite cross-section and the motion of several fine vortex rings on the same axis .
2 .
Let the figure esent a section through the axis Oz of an ancbor ring .
is the centre of the ) , the centre of the cros : section , any point inside the ring .
Let OC , CA , CP ACP Then it is shown that * ' Proceedings and Memoirs of the Manchester Lit. and Phil. Societv , ' 1886 .
1893 .
] The Potential of an Anchor Ring .
2.4.6 is a solution of Laplace 's equation .
A similar expression holds when for cosines we sines .
Writing now and the potential of a solid anchor ring at internal points is found as far as terms in .
As far as terms in it is given by The work done in collecting the ring from infinity is .
F. W. Dyson .
[ Apr. 20 , A distribution of matter on the ring of surface density gives on the the potential where 3 .
The stability of an annulus of rotating { luid is considered for three kinds of disturbances : fluted , in which case the ring remains symmetrical about its axis , but its cross-section ceases to be circular ; twisted , which case the ceiltral circle of the ring is deformed , but the crosssection is undisturbed ; beaded , in which case the central line remains circular , and the cross-section is a circle , but one of varying radius .
It is proved that when the cross.section is small compared with the radius the annular is stable for fluted and disturbances , but is broken up by beaded waves .
4 .
In Laplace 's proof that Saturn 's rings cannot be continuous fluid rotating in relative equilibrium , be assumes that the attraction of the ring at a point on the surface is the same that of a cylinder .
Madame Kowalewski , in her memoir , uses a method which applies only to rings of nearly circular .
Here I have found the potential of a ring of elliptic cross-section .
The results are complicated .
For a very flat ring of mass of mean radius , and whose cross-section has a semi-major axis , the exhaustion of potential energy is if is neglected .
As applied to Satul .
IJ , the result obtained is that for the ring to be nuous fluid its density wollld have to be about 100 times the density of the planet .
5 .
Let be the strength and the mean radius of a vortex rlng .
Let its cross-section be given by Then , \amp ; c. , are of the 2nd , , 4th , . . . .
orders in .
Their are obtained as far as The velociby of the ring is found to be 1893 .
] he Potential of an Anchor \amp ; c. The results agree with those obtained by Mr. Hicks , toroidal functions .
The fluted oscillations are very briefly discussed .
6 .
The motion of a number of fine vortex rings on the same axis discussed .
Equations are obtained giving the forward velocity and the rate of incl.ease of the radius for each ring .
Let be the strength , the } radius , the radius of the cross-section , the distance of the centre of the ring along the axis of It is shown that the kinetic energy of the system is given by The equations of motion The integral expressing the constancy of momentum takes the simple COllst .
The particular cases worked out in detail:\mdash ; 1 .
The motion of a ring following another of equal 2 .
The direct approach of a ring to a fixed plane .
3 .
The motion of a ring over a spherical obstacle .
IV .
" " Analogy of Sound and Colour.\mdash ; Comparison of the Seven Colours of the Rainbow with the Seven of the Musical Scale , as determined by the Monochord , and of the lVave-leng.ths of Colour and Sound By J. D. , F.R.S. Received tIal c

