160 Development of Lepidosiren paradoxa , Fitz .
" The External Features in the Development of Lepidosiren paradoxa , Fitz .
By J. Graham Kerr .
Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received April 11 , \#151 ; Read May 4 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The paper opens with a short account of the habits of Lepidosiren as observed in the Gran Chaco .
A description is then given of the external features in the development .
The more important points in this may be summarised as follows .
The egg is very large , 6*5\#151 ; 7 mm. in diameter .
It is surrounded by a special capsule at first thick and almost jelly-like in appearance , later on ( after fertilisation ) thin and horny .
Outside this was found in rare cases a thick jelly resembling that of the common frog 's egg .
The egg is without a trace of dark pigment .
Segmentation is complete , resembling most nearly that of the egg of Amia , and leads to a condition with an upper hemisphere of small cells with large segmentation cavity , and a lower of large yolk cells .
Gastrulation begins with the appearance of a row of depressions , or a continuous groove along about one-third of the whole extent of the margin between small and large cells .
During its progress the small-celled portion spreads over the lower yolk cells by the addition to its margin of small cells split off from the yolk cells .
As the groove referred to deepens into a slit to form the archenteron , it becomes gradually shorter , and the eventual complete blastopore is a crescentic slit only about a quarter of the length of the original groove .
The medullary folds soon appear running forwards from the blastopore .
There is no trace externally of a blastoporic or protostomal seam running along the back between the medullary folds .
The folds are low and inconspicuous , and they are continued into one another behind the blastopore , which becomes the anus .
There are only slight traces of overarching of the medullary folds to enclose a neural canal .
During the later stages of intraoval development , the posterior end of the body becomes much more conspicuously folded off the yolk than the head end .
The Lepidosiren hatches out as a tadpole-shaped larva , still completely devoid of dark pigment .
Just about the time of hatching the cloacal opening closes temporarily .
As the larva develops it becomes extraordinarily amphibian-like .
It possesses large pinnate external or somatic gills , four on each side , corresponding to branchial arches I , II , III , and IV .
A large cement organ is also present , which during its early stages is of the characteristic crescent shape so usual in the embryos of Anura .
Pigment begins to appear about ten days after hatching\#151 ; first in the retina , then over the dorsal surface , especially anteriorly .
The larval condition lasts during the first six weeks after hatching .
Towards the end of this period the cement organ undergoes atrophy .
The somatic Thermal Expansion of Pure Nickel and Cobalt .
161 gills atrophy later .
During the process of their doing so , the Lepido-siren passes through a condition in which the stumps persist evidently corresponding to that well known in the young Protopterus , the group of external gills with their common stalk having come by differential development to be situated immediately above the fore limb .
After the close of the larval period the Lepidosirens become much darker in colour and more lively in their movements .
Young were obtained from the nest up to a length of 60 mm. About this time the cornea begins to assume the white unhealthy appearance that it has in the adult .
In the young of this size , small yellow spots appear , and in the young of 90 mm. these are conspicuous .
Occasional yellow blotches persist in the young Lepidosiren of eighteen months , but in the adult they disappear .
The paper concludes with general remarks on the phenomena described .
The segmentation approaches most closely that of Ganoids .
The shortening up of the invaginating groove is considered to illustrate a process which has taken place in phylogeny in the passage from the primitive holoblastic egg to the meroblastic condition .
The continuity of the medullary folds behind the anus is adduced , together with the evidence accumulating of the prolongation of the blastopore along the floor of the medullary groove in other forms ( Amphibia , Ceratodus , e.g. ) as affording potent evidence in favour of the hypothesis which derives the Yertebrata from ancestral forms as primitive as the Coelenterata , and possessing a nelongated mouth traversing the neural surface .
The occurrence of external gills in the young of three so comparatively primitive groups of Vertebrata as Crossopterygians , Dipnoans , and Amphibians ; their occurrence on four branchial arches in Lepidosiren , and on at least the hyoid arch in Crossopterygians , and the occurrence of a probable homologue on the mandibular arch in Urodela , are taken as suggesting that these structures are organs of great antiquity in the Vertebrate stem , and that there was formerly one present on each visceral arch .
It is pointed out that were this so , it would afford a theory of the origin of the vertebrate limb , which would be supported by much of the evidence brought forward by the supporters of the Gegenbaur view , and which at the same time would avoid the most important difficulties in the way of this view .
" The Thermal Expansion of Pure Nickel and Cobalt .
" By A. E. Tutton , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor Tilden , D.Sc .
, E.R.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read May 4 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The author has carried out a series of re-determinations of the coefficients of thermal expansion of these two metals with the aid of the interference dilatometer described in a former communication to the VOL. LXV .
-vr

