]\gt ; .
E. Shaw .
Jfagnct \mdash ; The patient 's serum , 3 vols .
; staphylococcus suspension , 1 vol. ; .
W. 's washed corpuscles , 3 vols .
.\mdash ; Phagocytic power P.W.B.C. counted and .
30 Tube 2 .
\mdash ; Do .
do .
26 The netic Fsion of some of the less neti c ' Metals By P. E. SIIAW , , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor J. H. eceived May 22 , \mdash ; Read ( Tune 18 , 1903 .
1 .
Abundant research has been made on the magnetic expansion of iron , nickel , and cobalt , notably as regards the exact reIation between field ( H ) and expansion per unit length , by S. Bidwell* and H. Nagaoka .
Bismuth also has been investigated Bidwell , C. .
Knott , Van , and A. P. Wills .
But there scems to be recorded research on any materials other than the four mentioned .
Outside the ferro-magnetic group bismuth has the largest susceptiof any substance ; and the tacit assnmption seems to have made that if bismuth shows no change in length the field varies , it is vain to Iook for it in less susceptible metals .
But in the case of the ferro-magnetics there is no dircct relation etween l. and .
Thus , iron has maximum susceptibility six tinles as much as nickel , and yet expands far less for any known field .
Again , cobalt has maximum susceptibility one-eighth of of yet expands about as much .
There being , therefore , no close relation between susceptibility magnetic expansion , it seems possible that there may be appreciable movement for large fields in the case of metals outside the ferlo-magnetic .
This paper gives an account of tests applied to bismuth , silvcr , aluminium , copper , zinc , brass , bronze , lead , and tin .
( Not much importance should be attached to the results for lead and tin wing to the ness of these metals they tend to work loose in their fittings at each end .
) The work has taken from first to last nearly two ycars : qpecimens have been repeatedly changed and the magnetic and measuring parts of the apparatus modified in various ways .
In way searching tests have been applied to the investigation .
a long time it appeared ( 1 ) that all these metals contracted , the contraction being roughly pp.tional to the field , 2 ) that all the letalS showed permanent magnetisation , on the hysteresis principle , * ' Phi ] .
Trans , 1888 . .
Mag Jnn .
, 1903 .
] of of less fctatn .
0,71 just as was shown by Nagaoka for iron and nickel .
But step by step these inferences been proved to be fallacious , as greater care was taken in the exclusion of iron from the pparatus and in the exact setting of the rod symmetrical in the coil and free from mechanical connection with it .
The conclusion reached is that no true expansion , positive or negative , can be detected within the limits of the experiment .
2 .
The magnetic and lring apparattls have been described in previous communications and cannot sily be summarised intelligibly .
I am indebted to .
Schott ( see the Note appended ) for working ont the value of the factor in the expression The ordinary exprcssion modifying for such short solenoid as the one used ) me .
The numerical culation of the integrals in the notc ves for the value The rods are cylinders , 19 cm .
long , 6 mm. diamete ] ' ( except bismuth and lead 12 mm. diameter ) .
The coil is 19 cm .
long and has 3604 turns , hence Using the values of currents below , we the corresponding value of field ( H ) , wheroH is the effective uniform { icld expressed ( in amperes ) ) ( c.g.s. units). .
164 295 413 510 635 784 900 1090 1313 .
These currents were read on an ammeter hich was periodic ated .
They were always applied gradually by using a liquid resistance , vanishing to nil .
The coil was made somewhat short .
This was done in order , with given resistance in the windings , to concentrate the field on Again , the rod occupied the whole length of the coil .
It is when experimenling on a ferro-magn to build core up of three parts , the ferro-magnetic occupying the central third of the length ( where the field is practically un iform ) , whilst the two end thirds of the length are of brass .
Here the assumption mnde that brass itself undergoes no expansion .
I could not proceed on this plan , for we have no certainty that any metal is neutral , i.e. , is quite free from magnetic expansion .
So I decided to ve the rod the same length as the coil and trust to calculation to obtain the mean effective Shaw and LawR , ' ' Feb. , 1901 , and Feb. , 1902 .
Dr. P. E. Shaw .
agnetic [ May 22 , ficld throughout its length .
In the present research it is immaterial if there be a small error in the calculated value of field ; but it is cssential that any expansion produced should be due to the specime1l sively .
As regards the rod , we etre not troubled by the demagnetising factor in the well-known expression for eftective field , * H-NI , where Imagnetic intensity and .
In the present instance , since is very small for all the in , I becomes ensible .
FLC .
1 .
The electric micrometer calibrated by using a simple electric in the following way , which is accurate enough for present purposes .
Suppose is the last lever of the system of levers and is the mcasuring point ; require to know how many divisions of the eIectric micrometer screw corrcspond to a movement of Rcmove the coil and accessories which aro above , and bring screw of the simple micrometer down to .
When electric contact is complcted take a reading of the graduated head of the screw .
Rotate so that the snrfaces ?
arc separated by a amolmt , say 4 microns .
Then find out how much the screw of the electric micrometor has to be rotated to bring the logether again and produee electric contact onco more .
As a means of four results , 4 microns movcment at corresponds to 14,900 divisions on the electric micromctor screw , hence\mdash ; 1 micrometer division corresponds to cm .
, which ( since the rod is 19 cm .
long ) is equivalcnt to of the length of the rod .
Allowing for ties in readings , I should say that three on the scale reprcsent the smallest diffcrence that can be detected with certainty .
3 .
As seen above , the range of field was considerable and the upper limit high , whilst the measuring apparatus delicate .
* Ewing 's ' gnetic Induction , ' edition , p. 24 .
' Phys. Bev , 1903 .
1903 .
] Expansion of sonb of the fngnetic M Various strains , other than thosc for hich we are , will be Iiable to occur , and to ) thenlselves in the suring aratus , , due to ( 1 ) solenoidal Sllctiou of the coil 011 the ) dircctive ctio of the 's ficld on the magnctised coil ; ( 3 ) ttrncve a on the coil of any iron in its 1lcighbourhood .
It , very difficuIt to eliminate such false strains .
At -orked with the coil attached to the lon er end of the rod , ; the coil to remove all from the rod .
This method nlployed by S. Bidwell , it obviates suctiou and may on thab be useful with a tgnetic corc , ) in ny experience it trollblesome .
I then placed the coil stand separate from the coro its supports , king c to the rod in the coil .
The coil and core must not comc into the small movements of the former lvill displacc the lattel A great deal of time spent ding out the ) ditious of working ; thousands of rendings oftcll apparently consistent for long time were taken .
These readings ) ried from to cm .
Bnt the tion of disturbing uses proceeded , the rosnlt in the of evcry metal tried to be nil .
Bismuth with inbcrest on of the dready donc on it .
S. recorded a small nsion , but he reported that although the field used c.g.s. , the mit of mcastlrement 1/ 70,000,000 of the length of the rod , yet no movcmeut collld ) found .
No other attempt seems to thy j. as this last , although Knott , S Van Aubel tely A. P. WillslT also taken up the matter and record the negative resnlt .
After with one specimen of ismuth , I had the recast of somewhat less meter , to renlovG the sllrface , which might obtain ities from the loa]n used in the .
In field and length measurement , the test which I have applied to appears to further aIly previous ) , for , as shown , the maximum field is 1900 c.g.s. , and the movcment unit length readable is The used were ined specially ) urefi.om Messrs. Johnso ] ] Matthcy ; they were analysed traces of by tho snlpholnide colour test .
The list shows the amount of iron in 10,000 parts of metal : ; silver , 72 ; , lead , ; copper , ) roIlze , ; brass , It becll lpposed t sn all tracc of i1011 in S ture , , 1899 .
\ldquo ; . .
Shaw .
Jfagnetic [ May 22 , a metal would produce magnetic expansion on its own account which would mask any small expansion duc to the metal .
From the allalyses above , we may test this hypothesis .
Aluminium , silver , bronze , copper and brass more iron than 1 in 10,000 parts .
Now in a field of 1900 c.g. value of for iron is bout - ; assuming simple superposition of the expansions of the two ingredients , then 1 of iron in 10,000 of metal should roduce a value for equal to But , as shown above , this ement is readable on the electric micrometer .
In alumininm , and even and copper , the impurity should have a large movcment in my aratus .
It ould be interesting to examine the reIation of the amolult of on in a specimen to the magnetic expansion .
experiments certainly do not confirm the simple superposition theory .
( b ) At one time it was not uncommon for writers on magnetic ansion to deduct a contraction from the whole expansion observed , this being supposed to be always caused by the vell strcss in the magnetised substance .
But this course has been shown by Dr. Chrce to be unjustifiable .
In these experiments , c.g.s. and giving the value c.g.s. , we have cm .
for each unit length of specimen , or for the rods used .
long cm .
, Any such quamtity would be easily detected by the apparittus .
Hence concIusion is that the stress does not holly , if all , on matter .
If o1lly one ten-thousandth of the stress acted dilectly on the matter the effect would have been perceptible .
The negati ve results of these experiments , like those of Sir O. Lodge , seem to show that the connection between matter and etber , if existent , is inappreciable by our prescnt methods .
I have easure in acknowledging my obligation to the Royal Society for the Government grant made to me in 1901 , by which the cost of this research has been defrayed .
*See letbers by Chree and others , ' Nalure , ' , 1896 .
'Phil .
rans .
, 1897 . .
of some of G. A. SCIIOTT , B.A. , B.Sc. ngation , to .
Field , of the limlric The nsious of Dr. Shaw 's of cm .
Ienn 1dius of . .
Depth of winding ) ) cm . .
of layers ) ) per .
of . . .
to Use -ordinates ) here O is the of the tho is at the centre .
Let the and radial components of the etic force ( H ) , duc co the solcnoid , be and those due to the induced tion of order insidc the compared they terms in the strnin of ordcl less .
of the whole and be neglccted .
In the way of order in , which ) ected .
Thus may for our purpose regard force side the constant over any section , but eud to eIld .
The intensity of magnetisation is by I .
The volume density of is .
di since For the metals used by Dr. is exceeedingly sn all most ) , and its square may be neglected .
olves the differential coefficients of with respect to the alns wcll as tions of the str .
The former , thongh they may compared to , yet are small .
the latter ; hen ce , .
is negli , ible .
Since is of o1der I , the volnme density of magnetism is of order and negligil ) .
The indnced magnctism is confined to the surface of the , and the cing of der , may be neglected .
Thus we need only take account of the component Z. shall require the mean values of and The figure gives a meridian section .
is the Jxis , BCC'B ' the tion of the upper half of the solenoid , the section of of of radius As we neglect tions of the section of the bar , need only consider its at a point on the axis . .
P. E. Shaw .
The lllagn FIG. 2 .
By a well-known formula the magnctic force , due to the layer carrying ourrent , is givcn by IIcrc , 1 , . .
20 , 21 .
's summation fol.mul gives hcre terms of order ) } have been ected .
The total number of re in solcnoid is the .
per centimetre is ; let force inside an infinitely long solenoid with the ]lumber of ampere turns per ccntimetre be , then -lIaclaurin 's formula gives for the Itctic f ( 1 ) .
Now we have , so that .
1903 .
] of of th Ietals .
Hcnce from ( 1 ) Again , ( 1 ) gives , after ) ions , Z- l-- hcrc terms in have been ncglected .
-es the following intcgrals:\mdash ; them put I , , , Expansion of some Afei .
[ May 22 , Thus In put ) ) ' where is defi d ; cdso let With the:.bove values of we have Clearly is negligible except where it is divided by or which become of ordel at one or olher limit .
tion gives -tcos whence . . .
Hence we get Lastly , ( 1 ) gives the alues at the ends of the say and Resuming , we gct the following valucs:\mdash ;

