" On the Relations between Muscular Irritability , Cadaveric Rigidity , and Putrefaction .
" The object of this lecture is chiefly to try to establish the following law:-The greater the degree of muscular irritability at the time of death , the later the cadaveric rigidity sets in and the longer it lasts , and the later also putrefaction appears and the slower it progresses .
Many physiologists have already shown that in certain cases cadaveric rigidity appears late and lasts long when muscular irritability is powerful at the time of death ; but the great generality of this result and its prevalence as a lav , had not been established , nor had the general relation of these conditions of the muscular system to putrefaction , as stated in the above law , been enunciated before my first researches on this subject* .
The law I wish to establish is borne out by a great many facts , observed in the lower animals and in man , showing that every cause of increase in the degree of muscular irritability a short time before death , may be considered as a cause of delay of the setting in of cadaveric rigidity and of the persistence of that lpost-mortem state of muscles , and also a cause of delay of the time at which putrefaction manifests itself in muscles , and an evident slowness of the process of putrefaction ; while , on the contrary , every cause of decrease in the degree of muscular irritability some time before death , produces the opposite effect on cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction .
I will examine successively the relations existing between muscular irritability , post-mortem rigidity and putrefaction in the various following cases:-lst , in paralysed muscles ; 2nd , in muscles the temperature of which is diminished before death ; 3rd , in animals or men killed by lightning or by galvanism ; 4th , in overdriven cattle , in cocks after a fight , in men after over-exertion , and in animals hunted to death ; 5th , in men dying in a good state of health or after prolonged disease ; 6th , in men who have died of cholera , of tetanus , or after other convulsive diseases ; 7th , in men and animals killed by poison .
1st .
Irritability , cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction in paralysed tnuscles.--I have shown long ago that during a certain period after the beginning of a paralysis , the paralysed muscles are endowed with more irritability than healthy muscles .
I have ascertained this fact in various ways ; but the most decisive method consists in comparing the duration of irritability in a paralysed muscle and in the corresponding healthy one of the opposite side , while they are both submitted to the same excitation .
I have often found in experimenting in that way , that the paralysed muscle remained irritable twice , three times , or even four times as long as the healthy one .
The following experiments , taken out of many of the same kind , while they show that muscular irritability is increased in consequence having the same bearing .
( See Comptes Rendus de la Soc. de Biologie , vol. i. 1849 , pp. 39 , 138 , 154 and 173 , and vol. ii .
1850 , p. 194 ; also Comptes Rendus de 1'Acad .
des Sciences , vol. xlv .
5th Oct. 1857 .
) t Experimental Researches applied to Physiology and Pathology .
New York , 1853 , pp. 68-73 .
of paralysis , show also that in such conditions cadaveric rigidity sets in late and lasts long , and that putrefaction also appears late and progresses slowly .
( 1 ) In the muscles of the leg of a dog , paralysed by section of the roots of the sciatic nerve , on one side , in the spinal canal , there was an excessive irritability at the time of death ( by asphyxia ) , five hours after the section of the nerve-roots .
In the paralysed muscles irritability lasted ten hours ; cadaveric rigidity appeared nearly at the time of the cessation of irritability* , and lasted nearly thirteen dayst .
Putrefaction was evident only on the beginning of the fifteenth day , and it was not very much advanced on the seventeenth day .
In the healthy leg muscular irritability lasted but four hours , and was , as usual , at once followed by some degree of cadaveric rigidity .
During nearly five days this rigidity lasted , and putrefaction was evident as soon as the sixth day , and much advanced on the seventh , at a time when the paralysed limb was still perfectly rigid .
The temperature of the room during the fortnight the experiment lasted ranged between 6 " and 11 ?
Cent. ( 42 ?
'8 to 51 ?
'8 Fahr. ) The following shows at a glance the differences between the two legs : Durat .
of irrit , Durat .
of cad .
rigid .
Advanced putref .
Paralysed muscles. .
10 hours .
13 days .
17th day .
Healthy muscles ... 4 hours .
5 days .
7th day .
( 2 ) I have found that muscular irritability is very much increased in the paralysed limb of an animal on which a lateral half of the spinal cord has been divided transversely in the dorsal region .
In this case , as well as after paralysis from section of a nerve , cadaveric rigidity sets in later and lasts longer , and putrefaction appears later , and proceeds slower in the paralysed hind leg ( on the side of the section of the cord ) than in the other .
( 3 ) A month after the section of a nerve we have another kind of verification of the law : irritability is then diminished in the paralysed muscles ; and we find that cadaveric rigidity sets in sooner and lasts a less time ; and that putrefaction appears sooner and proceeds quicker in them than in the healthy muscles .
2nd .
Influence of a diminution of temperature of muscles before death upon their irritability , cadaveric rigidity , and putrefaction.-I found many years ago that all the vital properties of the nervous centres , the nerves and the muscles , in adult as well as in young warm-blooded animals , may be much increased in consequence of a diminution of temperature of these organs .
The following experiments show that when muscular irritability is increased by that cause , the increase has the same influence upon cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction as when it is caused by paralysis .
In two kittens three days old , and of the same litter , I found after death ( by asphyxia ) the following differences : one of them had the temperature of 37 ?
Cent. ( 98 ?
06 Fahr. ) in the rectum at the time of death ; its muscular irritability in the posterior limbs gave way to cadaveric rigidity 3hours after the last effort at breathing ; this rigidity lasted nearly three days ; putrefaction began to be evident on the fourth day after death , and was much advanced the next day ; while in the other , the temperature of which was only 25 ?
Cent. ( 77 ?
Fahr. ) at the time of death , muscular irritability lasted more than nine hours after the last breathing ; cadaveric rigidity began during the tenth hour and lasted nine days ; and putrefaction , which began on the tenth day , was not much advanced until two days later .
In many other instances of newly-born cats , dogs , rabbits , and birds ( especially ravens , sparrow-hawks , jays , and magpies ) , I have observed similar differences as those observed in the preceding experiment , when I noticed the duration of irritability after death and its relations to cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction , according to the degree of animal heat at the time of death .
As a general rule , when there was a difference of 8 ?
or 10 ?
Cent. ( 14 ?
to 18 ?
Fahr. ) in the temperature of two animals of the same age and the same species , muscular irritability and cadaveric rigidity lasted twice or three times longer in the cooler animal than in the other , and putrefaction in the former was much less rapid .
I have observed the same differences also in adult birds and mammals* .
It is thus clearly shown by experiment that when the temperature of muscles is diminished before death , their irritability lasts long after death , cadaveric rigidity sets in late and lasts long , and putrefaction appears late and proceeds slowly .
3rd .
Ipfluence of death by lightning and galvanism on cadac veric r igidity and putrefaction.--It is well known that J. Hunter thought that cadaveric rigidity cannot take place after death by lightning ; but many facts have been recently published , showing that in animals and men killed by lightning , cadaveric rigidity has existed , and there can indeed be no doubt of its occurrence in such cases .
At the same time there is reason to believe that in some instances of that mode of death cadaveric rigidity has either not set in , or has been of so short a duration , that it has not been possible to ascertain its existence .
It appears difficult at first sight to reconcile facts which seem to be so much in opposition one with the other ; but it will be seen that the contradiction is apparent only .
Death by lightning may be the result of , -1st , a syncope by fright , or in consequence of a direct or reflex influence of lightning on the par vagum ; 2ndly , haemorrhage in or around the brain or in the lungs , the pericardium , &amp;c. ; 3rdly , concussion or some other alteration of the brain .
When death by lightning is due to these causes , cadaveric rigidity may , of course , appear after death , and even last long , much in the same way indeed as when death results from these causes in persons who have not been struck by lightning .
But lightning may kill in another way : it may destroy life as galvanism does , by producing such a violent convulsion of every muscle in the body that muscular irritability ceases almost at once ; and the ensuing rigidity may then be of so short duration as to escape notice .
The following experiments show the powerful influence of galvanism on muscular irritability , cadaveric rigidity , and putrefaction .
We will at first give the results of the galvanization of one limb : I. General Result of Experiments on addlt Rabbits .
Galvanized limb .
Limb not galvanized .
D)urat .
of irritability ... .
7 to 20 minutes 120 to 400 minutes .
Durat .
of cad .
rigidity. .
2 to 8 hours 1 to 8 days .
Putref .
much advanced. .
within a day only after several days .
II .
General Reszlt of Experiments on adult Dogs .
Galvanized limb .
Limb not galvanized .
Duration of irritability 12 to 25 minutes 140 to 550 minutes .
Duration of cad .
rigid .
3 to 16 hours 2 to 21 days .
Putref .
much advanced .
within 30 hours only after several days .
In experimenting on the whole body of an animal I have obtained the most striking results .
I will only mention here the following experiments .
Five vigorous male adult guinea-pigs were asphyxiated by the application of a ligature round the trachea , and four of them were galvanized immediately , the first with a very powerful electromagnetic machine , the second with a weaker one , the third with a still weaker one , and the fourth by only a slight galvanic current ; the fifth animal was not galvanized .
In the four galvanized animals the conductors were applied one to the mouth , the other to the anus .
Durat .
of irrit .
Rigid .
completed .
Durat .
of rigid .
1st ... 4 mins .
7 mins .
15 mins .
2nd ... .
40 mins .
60 mins .
nearly 1,200 mins .
( 20 hrs .
) 3rd ... .
90 mins .
120 mins .
nearly 3,600 mins .
( 3 days ) 4th ... .
330 mins .
420 mins .
nearly 8,600 mins .
( 6 days ) 5th ... .
500 mins .
600 mins .
nearly 11,500 mins .
( 8 days ) As regards putrefaction , it already appeared in the first animal during the first hour after death , and was much advanced the next day ; its progress was slower in the four others , and successively slower in each as compared with the preceding one in the series .
Considering that the power of lightning may be vastly greater than that of our galvanic machines , we can easily understand that when lightning strikes a man or an animal in the proper place , it must produce a much greater effect than galvanism , reducing the duration of irritability to a fraction of a second , and that of cadaveric rigidity in a corresponding degree , so that no trace of it remains a few minutes after death , and in like manner hastening the access of the final process of putrefaction .
The results of the application of galvanism either to separate limbs or to the whole body of animals , appear thus to show that when lightning kills without leaving any evident alteration adequate to cause death , without the subsequent appearance of cadaveric rigidity , but with early and rapid putrefaction , the mode of action of lightning is similar to that of galvanism , and consists in a sudden and complete exhaustion of the nervous and muscular tissues by over-action .
I have ascertained that a galvanic current passing through a rigid muscle produces no change in the duration of cadaveric rigidity , and does not in any way hasten putrefaction .
It seems very probable from this negative fact that the influence of galvanism on still irritable muscles is due to the contractions then produced , and not to some direct chemical action on the muscular tissue and on the fluids which surround the muscular fibres .
This probability becomes almost a certainty when we know that any cause which produces muscular contraction acts in the same way as galvanism , as we have already seen , and as will be further shown in the course of this lecture .
4th .
Influence of prolonged tmuscular exercise on cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction.-It is well known that putrefaction appears very quickly in over-driven cattle and in animals hunted to death .
I had the opportunity once , in September 1851 , near Dinan , in France , of observing the period of setting in of cadaveric rigidity in two sheep that had been over-driven to reach a fair .
They were killed by the section of the carotid arteries .
In less than five minutes after death rigidity was evident in both of them , and putrefaction was manifest before the end of the day ( in less than eight hours after death ) .
As cadaveric rigidity lasts only a short time in cocks killed during or shortly after a fight , " and also in animals hunted to death , J. I-Hunter was led to think that it does not come on after death in such circumstances .
Mr. Gulliver has shown this opinion to be erroneous .
He states that fighting-cocks , as well as hares , stags , and other animals of the chase , become rigid at once after death in the circumstances referred to .
It is well known that putrefaction occurs very quickly in animals hunted to death , so that every thing we know concerning over-driven cattle , cocks after a fight , or animals hunted to death , is in perfect harmony with the law that the exercise of muscular contraction diminishes muscular irritability , and that diminished irritability is followed by early cadaveric rigidity , which , in its turn , promptly gives way to a putrefaction which progresses rapidly .
A great many facts seem to show that over-exertion acts in the same way in man as in the lower animals .
The accounts given of soldiers slain on the battle-field , whose body and limbs retained the position they were in at the moment the individuals met their death , are doubtless to be explained on the supposition that , in consequence of previous excessive exertion , rigidity came on at once .
In a case of a man who kept his arms extended for a long while to avoid being drowned , the arms after death were found rigid in the position they had before* .
I was told by a military surgeon that putrefaction appears very soon in the corpses of soldiers killed after the over-exertion of a prolonged battle .
Thus all we know concerning man seems also in harmony with the law I am endeavouring to illustrate .
5th .
Influence of nutrition of muscles on cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction.-Nystent has shown that when death occurs accidentally in persons in health , in whom the state of nutrition of muscles is very good , and in whom therefore these organs are endowed with a high degree of irritability , cadaveric rigidity sets in long after death and persists very long .
It is so , especially , in cases of death by decapitation , strangulation , asphyxia from non-toxic gases or submersion , by sudden haemorrhage from a wound of a large artery , &amp;c. Nysten states that he has seen cadaveric rigidity beginning only sixteen or eighteen hours after death , and lasting six or seven days .
Dr. J. A. Symonds , in an excellent article on ' Death + ' states that he has seen cadaveric rigidity eight days after death by hanging .
My own observations show that in the bodies of healthy persons decapitated or asphyxiated , cadaveric rigidity does not appear sooner than ten or twelve hours after death , and that it lasts more than a week when the weather is not extremely warm .
In the limbs of the two decapitated men on whose bodies I made experiments on the restoration of muscular irritability by injections of blood , I found that there was some degree of irritability thirteen or fourteen hours after death , before any blood had been injected .
Nysten has seen muscular irritability lasting twenty-six hours in a decapitated man , which is a fact clearly showing that cadaveric rigidity may appear only after twenty-six hours .
The reverse is seen when nutrition has been diminished for a long while before death .
In a man who died at the Hopital du GrosCaillou at Paris , in the summer of 1849 , cadaveric rigidity became evident within three minutes after the last breathing , and while the heart was still beating twenty times in a minute , i. e. while the man was still alive , if life is considered to persist so long as the heart beats .
These beatings ceased only three minutes and a half after cadaveric rigidity had shown itself everywhere .
A quarter of an hour afterwards there was no more trace of cadaveric rigidity , and in less than an hour after death signs of putrefaction had appeared in the limbs .
This man died of exhaustion after a prolonged typhoid fever .
It seems quite evident from the above fact , and others of the same kind which I have not mentioned , that the greatest differences exist as regards cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction in consequence of the degree of muscular irritability at the time of death .
6th .
Inflvence of convulsions on cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction.-The law which it is my object to establish is borne out every day in cases in which death follows violent and prolonged convulsions .
Sommer and other writers have seen cadaveric rigidity appearing so quickly after death by tetanus , that the spasmodic rigidity caused by the disease during life was followed by the post-mortem rigidity without any interval of muscular relaxation between these two states .
In a strongly built woman , who died of hydrophobia after violent convulsions , I found that cadaveric rigidity had set in within the first hour after death , and that it ceased before the end of the tenth hour .
In 1849 I made many observations at the Gros-Caillou Hospital in Paris , on corpses of soldiers who died from cholera , the general results of which .
are , -lst , that cadaveric rigidity appeared late and lasted long in those patients who died quickly , i. e. before a prolonged alteration of nutrition ; 2nd , that those muscles which had been attacked with violent and frequent cramps , became rigid very soon after death , and remained so only a short time* .
I have often had the opportunity of seeing rabbits dying from convulsions in cases in which the supra-renal capsules were the only organs found diseased , and have often observed in them that the more violent and frequent the convulsions , the earlier did cadaveric rigidity appear , the sooner it ceased , and the quicker also putrefaction occurred and proceeded .
7th .
I ?
fluence of certain poisons on cadaveric riyidity and lutre* In one case cadaveric rigidity appeared in the calf of the right leg just after death , and ceased in less than two hours ; while the other muscles , which had had no cramps , began to be rigid only five hours after death .
faction.-I do not intend examining any other influence of poisons except that which is due to the production of convulsions .
I have made a great many experiments on this point , and the result has constantly been in harmony with the law now under consideration .
The principal poisons employed were strychnine , nicotine , picrotoxine , atropia , morphia , oxalic acid , and the cyanide of mercury .
I have ascertained that when death is produced almost at once by these poisons , there is hardly any effect to be observed on the time of access and duration of cadaveric rigidity and putrefaction ; but when convulsions have existed for a long time before death , the influence is most remarkable .
I will mention the results of but one experiment .
Three dogs , as much alike as possible , and apparently in perfect health , were poisoned by the acetate of strychnine .
One of them had a dose of 2 grains , another half a grain , and the third one-fourth of a grain .
The first dog died at once , the second after 12 minutes , during 7 of which it had convulsions , the third after 21 minutes , during 11 of which it had convulsions .
Durat .
of muse .
irrit .
Durat .
of cad .
rigid .
Putrefaction .
1st dog ... .
8 hours 19 or 20 days slow .
2nd dog ... .
22 , , 5 days rapid .
3rd dog ... .
I , , less than a day very rapid .
In rabbits , guinea-pigs , cats and birds , as well as in dogs , I have ascertained that when they are killed by poisons causing convulsions , the more violent and the more frequent the convulsions are , the sooner cadaveric rigidity sets in and the less is the time it lasts ; the sooner also does putrefaction appear , and the quicker is its progress .
I come now to the conclusion of this lecture .
The facts I have mentioned show that when the degree of muscular irritability at the time of death is considerable , either in consequence of a good state of nutrition , as in persons who die in full health from an accidental cause , or in consequence of rest , as in cases of paralysis , or on account of the influence of cold , cadaveric rigidity in all these cases sets in late and lasts long , and putrefaction appears late and progresses slowly .
The facts mentioned also clearly show that when the degree of muscular irritability at the time of death is slight , either in consequence of a bad state of nutrition , or of exhaustion from over-exertion , or from convulsions caused by disease or poison , cadaveric rigidity sets in and ceases soon , and putrefaction appears and progresses quickly .
The two distinct series of facts I have adduced seem , therefore , to bear out clearly the truth of the law I have endeavoured to establish on the rela-tion between the degree of muscular irritability and the period of setting in and the duration of cadaveric rigidity , and also the time of appearance and the progress of putrefaction .

