248 Proceedings and List of Papers read .
the oscillator .
A fourth wave dealt with by Hertz , namely , the wave of magnetic induction , does not , as he supposes , start with zero phase from the origin , but with a finite phase .
The wave in the equatorial plane , largely relied upon by Hertz for his interference experiments " of the first kind , " is a compound of the waves of transverse and axial electric force , and has a much more complex series of velocity changes than Hertz appears to have realised .
( iv ) The existence of the two electric force waves and the singular points or surfaces for the wave motion in the neighbourhood of the oscillator very possibly throw light on the difficulties which arise in Hertz 's experiments .
It would seem that such experiments should be made at distances greater than 6 to 7 ( A/ 2 ?
r ) from the centre of the oscillator , or , roughly , about a wave-length from the oscillator .
In Hertz 's case this amounts to about 10 metres\#151 ; a distance at which Hertz rather terminated than started his interference experiments .
Only at such a distance are the phase curves sensibly linear .
The authors are not unaware of the physical difficulties of experiment at great distances , and wish , therefore , to emphasise again the fact that they are dealing with a theoretical oscillator .
It is , however , this type for which Hertz himself endeavoured to provide a mathematical investigation , and it is that investigation which , in the first instance , they have attempted to expand and modify .
January 26 , 1899 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. G. J. Shaw-Lefevre , a member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Council , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the Theory of Simultaneous Partial Differential Equations .
" By Dr. A. C. Dixon .
Communicated by Professor G. J. Allman , F.R.S. II .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
III .
On Medullosa a new Representative of the Cycadofilices .
" By Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S.

