A new Method of deducing a first Approximation to the Orbit of a Cometfrom three Geocentric Observations .
By , James Ivory , A.M. Communicated by Henry Brougham , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 17 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 121 .
] Although it be true that three geocentric observations are really sufficient for determining the parabolic orbit of a comet , as well as the elliptic orbit of a planet ; the latter problem is far the easier , because we can select those positions of a planet from which its heliocentric places are found without any intricate calculation : but with regard to comets it is far otherwise .
Since their appearance is unexpected , we are under the necessity of drawing our inferences from those positions in which they may happen to present themselves ; and it is generally extremely difficult to deduce , with accuracy , their heliocentric positions from observations necessarily confined to a small part of their orbit .
In order to obtain an approximate solution , Sir Isaac Newton considered a small portion of the orbit as a straight line , the projection of which on the plane of the ecliptic will be also straight , and the parts of each will bear the same proportion to each other as the intervals of observation .
But three observations alone leave the problem indeterminate ; and though when four observations are employed the problem is generally determinate and easily solved , it is also often indeterminate even when four are employed .
In general it may be said that no solution is free from this imperfection , in which the velocity in the orbit does not enter as a principal condition , as in the methods of Boscovich , Laplace , and Legendre .
But in that of Laplace , the first and second differential coefficients of longitude and latitude can be obtained but imperfectly , and only by interpolation ; and in that of Legendre his formulae are complicated , and the number of equations that require to be solved render it ill adapted for general use .
The object of the present paper is to give a new solution of the problem , which , in the author 's estimation , is at least as accurate as any former method ; and in practice , he thinks , as commodious as the nature of such a calculation can well admit .
After detailing the particulars of this method , which from its nature cannot admit of abridgement , the author gives various instances of its successful application in discovering the orbits of the comets of 1769 , 1781 , and two comets of 1805 , from observations selected by Legendre for the same purpose ; and he shows , by comparison of his results with those elements which M. Mechain obtained by Laplace 's method , with those obtained by Legendre himself , and with those .
ultimately deduced as corrected elements from the latest observationsY how near an approximation is obtained by the method here given ; so that the apparent errors seem rather to be those of observation , which , in fact , are not susceptible of great accuracy even with the best instruments , and with the greatest care , on account of the haze or coma with which these bodies are generally surrounded .

