320 Hon. Charles A. Parsons .
Experiments on [ June 14 , VIII .
" Experiments on Carbon at high Temperatures and under great Pressures , and in contact with other Substances .
" By the Hon. Charles A. Parsons .
Communicated by the Right Hon. the Earl of Rosse , E.R.S. Received June 13 1888 .
The primary object of these experiments was to obtain a dense form of carbon which should be more durable than the ordinary carbon when used in arc lamps , and at the same time to obtain a material better suited for the formation of the burners of incandescent lamps .
There were a considerable number of experiments made in which the conditions were somewhat alike , and many were almost repetitions with slightly varying pressures and temperatures .
They may , however be divided into two distinct classes : the first in which a carbon rod surrounded by a fluid under great pressure is electrically heated by passing a large current through it , the second in which the liquid is replaced by various substances such as alumina , silica , lime , \amp ; c. The arrangement of the experiment was as follows:\#151 ; A massive cylindrical steel mould of about 3 inches internal diameter and 6 inches high was placed under a hydraulic press ; the bottom of the mould was closed by a spigot and asbestos-rubber packing\#151 ; similar to the gas-check in guns ; the top was closed by a plunger similarly packed ; this packing was perfectly tight at all pressures .
In the spigot was a centrally bored hole into which the bottom end of the carbon rod to be treated fitted , the top end of the carbon rod was connected electrically to the mould by a copper cap which also helped to support the carbon rod in a central position .
The bottom block and spigot were insulated electrically from the mould by asbestos , and the leading wires from the dynamo being connected to the block and mould respectively , the current passed along the carbon rod in the interior of the mould .
The fluid was run in so as to cover the rod completely .
The plunger was then free to exert its pressure on the liquid without injuring the carbon .
The pressure in the mould was indicated by the gauge on the press .
Experiments .
Class I. Among the liquids tested were benzene , paraffin , treacle , chloride and bisulphide of carbon .
The pressures in the mould during the several experiments were maintained at from 5 to 15 tons per square inch ; the initial size of the rod was in all cases \#163 ; -inch , and the current from 100 to 300 amperes .
1888 .
] Carbon at high Temperatures and great Pressures .
321 Results.\#151 ; In some of these experiments a considerable quantity of gas was generated , and the press had to be slightly slacked back during the experiment to accommodate it and maintain the pressure constant .
In all cases there was a soft friable black deposit of .
considerable thickness on the carbon .
In no case was the specific gravity of the carbon rod increased by this process .
There was no change in appearance of the fracture , excepting when chloride of carbon had been the fluid ; it was greyer in this case .
The rate of burning of samples placed in arc lamps was not diminished by the process .
Various rates of deposition were tried , but with the same result , and the conclusion seems to be that under very high pressures , such as from 5 to 15 tons per squai'e inch , the deposit of carbon by heat from hydrocarbons , chloride of carbon , bisulphide of carbon , treacle , \amp ; c. , is of a sooty nature , and unlike the hard steel-grey deposit from the same liquids or their vapours at atmospheric or lower pressures .
Experiments .
Class II .
In these experiments the asbestos-rubber packing was omitted , the plunger and spigot being an easy fit in the mould .
A layer of coke powder under the plunger formed the top electrical connexion with the rod .
No. 1 .
Silver sand or silica was run around the carbon rod , and pressures of from 5 to 30 tons per square inch applied ; the rod was usually about \#163 ; -ineh diameter , and currents up to 300 amperes passed .
Results.\#151 ; The silica was melted to the form of a small hen 's egg around the rod .
" When the current was increased to about 250 amperes the rod became altered to graphite , the greater the heat apparently the softer the graphite .
There was no action between the silica and the carbon , the surface of the carbon remained black , and there were no hard particles in or on the carbon rod .
Other substances , such as an hydrated alumina and mixtures of alumina and silica , gave the same results .
The density of the carbon was considerably increased , in some cases from normal at T6 to 2'2 and 2'4 ; in these cases the carbon appeared very dense , much harder than the original carbon , and about as hard as the densest gas-retort carbon .
No crystalline structure was visible .
The specimens were treated with solvents , and there appeared no indication of the surrounding substance having penetrated the rod ; the carbon was undoubtedly consolidated by 30 per cent. In some cases when the material surrounding the rod was alumina 322 Carbon at high Temperatures and Pressures .
[ June 14 saturated with oil , soft crystals of graphite exuded from specimens that had been kept for some weeks .
No. 2 .
Pure hydrated alumina , carbonate and oxide of magnesia and lime all rapidly destroyed the carbon rod , by combining with it the hydrated alumina forming large volumes of gas of which it appeared to be a constituent .
On account of the great diminution of bulk , no analysis was made ; the gas issued from the mould explosively at from 10 to 12 tons per square inch .
The alumina was found in a crystalline crust , like sugar , around where the rod had been .
Hardness that of corundum , almost translucent .
No. 3 .
The following is the most interesting experiment of the series :\#151 ; On the botton of the mould was a layer of slaked lime about 5-inch thick , over this silver sand 2 inches , then another layer of lime of the same thickness as the former , finally a layer of coke-dust , and then the plunger .
With a pressure of from 5 to 30 tons per square inch in the mould , , and the carbon of from ^ to T~ diameter , currents from 200 to 300 amperes were passed .
In from 10 to 30 minutes the current was generally interrupted by the breaking or fusing of the rod , or by the action of the lime in dissolving it at the top or bottom .
On opening the mould when it had cooled a little , the silica usually appeared to have melted to an egg-shaped mass , and mixed somewhat at the ends with the lime ; the surface of the carbon appeared acted on , and sometimes pitted and crystalline in places ; silica adhered to the surface , and beneath* when viewed under the microscope , appeared a globular cauliflower-like formation of a yellowish colour , resembling some specimens of " bort."* After several days ' immersion in concentrated hydrofluoric acid , this formation remained partly adherent to the carbon ; on the surface of the carbon was a layer or skin about -g^th of an inch thick of great hardness , on , the outside grey , the fracture greyer than the carbon , but having a shining coke-like appearance under the microscope .
The powder scraped ofE the surface of the rod has great hardness , and will cut rock crystal when applied with a piece of metal faster than emery powder .
It has , under the microscope , the appearance of bort , the minute particles seem to cling together ; they are not transparent as a rule , and though some such particles are found ' , among them , it is not clear that such are hard .
When a piece of the skin has been rubbed against a diamond or other hard body , the projecting or hard portions have a glossy cokelike appearance .
A piece of the skin will continue to scratch rock crystal for some time without losing its edge .
It will scratch ruby , and when rubbe * The bort-like powder is not acted on by hydrofluoric and nitrio acids mixed .
1888 .
] Presents .
for some time against it will wear grooves or facets upon it .
When a cut diamond is rubbed on the surface of the skin , it will cut through it into the carbon beneath , making a black line or opening about ^-inch long ; the facet on the diamond , originally -g^-inch diameter , will have its corners evenly rounded , and its polished surface reduced to about one-half its original area ; the appearance of the edges is as if they had been rubbed down by a nearly equally hard substance .
The subject of the last experiment is scarcely sufficiently investigated to warrant any definite conclusions .
The substance in the several ways it has so far been tested seems to possess a hardness of nearly if not quite the first quality .
The minuteness of the particles , which appear more or less cemented together , and are less cohesive after the action of acid , make it very difficult to determine their distinctive features .
The mode of formation is not inconsistent with the conditions of pressure , temperature , and the presence of moisture , lime , silica , and other substances as they appear to have existed in the craters or spouts of the Cape Diamond Mines at some epoch .
From the few experiments that have boon made it appears that at pressures below 3 tons per square inch , the deposit does not possess the same hardness , though somewhat similar in appearance .
Wbat part the lime and silica play , whether the former only supplies moisture and oxygen which combine with the carbon , or whether the presence of lime is necessary to the action , is not clear .
We may , however , observe that so far it seems as if the lime and moisture combining with the carbon form a gas or liquid at great pressure , which combining with the silica , forms some compound of lime , silica , and carbon , or perhaps pure carbon only , of great hardness .
S Presents , June 14 , 1888 .
Transactions .
AlbanyNew York State Museum of Natural History .
Bulletin .
Ho. 3 .
8vo .
Albany 1888 .
The Museum .
LondonPhotographic Society of Great Britain .
Journal and Transactions .
Yol .
XII .
No. 8 .
8vo .
London 1888 .
The Society .
Royal Institute of British Architects .
Journal of Proceedings .
Vol. IV .
No. 15 .
4to .
London 1888 .
The Institute .
Society of Biblical Archaeology .
Proceedings .
Yol .
X. Part 7 .
8 vo .
London 1888 .
The Society .
Manchester:\#151 ; Geological Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
XIX .
Parts-18-19 .
8vo .
Manchester 1888 .
The Society .

