V. Observations for determining the dip of the magnetic needle .
Dip of the magnetic needle observed at Woolwich , and at different stations within the Arctic Circle .
JL n the following Table , is given a general abstract of the dip of the magnetic needle , and of the magnetic intensity , observed at different stations within the Arctic Circle , in the years 1824-25 ; and of those at Woolwich , both prior , and subsequent to the voyage .
The instruments employed in these observations , were those by Jones , and Dollond , already described in the Appendix to the two preceding voyages of discovery ; but on this occasion , other needles were added , the whole being numbered as follows : No. 1 .
A rectangular needle , 7^ inches in length , constructed by Jones on Meyer 's principle , having a light cylindrical arm at right angles to its axis , for screwing on a small brass sphere .
2 .
The same needle , with a sphere somewhat larger .
3 .
The same needle , with a still larger sphere .
4 .
A plain rectangular needle of the same length as the above .
5 .
A needle similar to No. 4 , but used only for the intensity .
6 .
A conical needle , by Dollond , ii\#177 ; inches in length , having a moveable axis , for shifting into four different positions ; used with the instrument of his construction .
7 .
A plain rectangular needle , of the same length as No. 6 , and used in the same instrument ; but employed exclusively for the intensity .
It may not be unnecessary to state , that every precaution which suggested itself was taken to insure accuracy , and that the needles were vibrated after each , observation , by means of a small piece of magnetised wire , that their axis might not be injured by raising them in the Y 's oft ' the agate planes .
Each of the registered observations on the dip , were deduced from five readings of the needle , in each of its different positions .
The observations for intensity , by means of the time in which the needles performed one hundred vibrations in the meridian , are deduced from the mean of four hundred vibrations , obtained with the face of the instrument on each side of the vertical , and the needles reversed on their axis , in the two positions .

