The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" Tide-Observations at Tahiti : " by Captain Edward Belcher , R.N. Communicated by Captain Beaufort , R.N. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. This paper consists of copies of the Tide Journal , registered at the Island of Motuatu , in the Harbour of Papeete , and of a short comparative series made at Point Venus .
They were conducted by Mr. McKinley Richardson , Mate .
The construction of the tidegauge is described ; and an account is given of the methods of observation , and of the precautions adopted to ensure accuracy .
The results are specified in the following letter from the author to Cap ?
tain Beaufort , which accompanies the paper : ?
" Her Majesty 's Ship Sulphur , Woolwich , August 2 , 1842 .
" Sir , ?
Referring to the Tide Registries , forwarded on my arrival , I beg leave to offer the following general remarks upon the tides at Tahiti .
" In consequence of your very special instructions relative to the determination of the actual jjeriods of high water at the Island of Tahiti , the most minute attention was paid to this subject ; and as these periods could only be approximated , recourse was had to my old method ( successfully practised in the Lancashire survey ) , of deriving them from the Equal-altitude system .
" By a reference to the Tide Rcgistry annexed , it will be found that there are two distinct jjeriods of high water , during each interval of twenty-four hours ; and that during the seven days preceding , and seven days following the full and change , they are confined between the limits of 10 a.m. and 2h 30m p.m. , the whole range of interval , by day as well as by night , being about 4h 27m .
" Commencing with the seventh day preceding the full moon , viz. the 9th of April , it will be perceived that high water occurs at 10 a.m. , this being the greatest a.m. interval from noon ; and that on the 16th , at the full moon , it occurs nearly at noon .
" Passing on to the 23rd , it reaches the greatest p.m. limit at 2h 30m , and on the 2nd of May again reaches the noon period .
" Between the 23rd and 24th , however , a sudden anomaly presents itself .
Throughout the day of the 23rd , the variation of the level does not exceed 2}2 inches , and the general motion is observed to be 6 irregular .
' The time of high water is also the extreme p.m. limit .
" On the 21th we discover that it has suddenly resumed the most distant a.m. period , viz. 10 a.m. , but proceeds regularly to the noon period at the change .
" Although the differences of level do not at full and change ex ?
ceed 1 foot 4 ?
inches , still I presume that we have sufficient data to establish the fact , ?
that it is not invariably high water at noon ( as asserted by Kotzebue , Beechey and others ) ; and , further , that we have corresponding nightly periods of high water .
" It is evident that the time of high water at full and change may bc assumed as that of noon , because we have sufficiently decided changes of level to fix the approximate period of high water .
" It does not appear by these Registers , that any higher levels result from the rollers sent in by the strong sea breezes ( as asserted by several writers ) , but rather the contrary , the highest levels being indicated during the night , when the land breezes prevailed .
" I have great satisfaction in presenting you with these facts , and trust that they may induce others to follow up the same experiments , so as , eventually , to obtain the variations which other seasons may produce .
" I am , Sir , your most obedient servant , " Edward Belcher , Captain ?
" Captain Beaufort , R.N , F.R.S. , Hydrographer .
"

