245 On some New Species of Lagenostoma , Type of PteridospermousSeed from the Coal Measures .
By E. A. N ewell Arber , M.A. , F.L.S. , F.G-.S .
, Trinity College , Cambridge , University Demonstrator in Palaeobotany .
( Communicated by D. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received January 10 , \#151 ; Read February 23 , 1905 .
) [ Plates 1 and 2 .
] CONTENTS .
PAGE Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 245 A. Lagenostoma K i d s t o n i , sp. nov.\#151 ; ( 1 ) History , Locality , and Horizon of the specimens 247 ( 2 ) Morphology of the seed ... ... ... ... . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
247 ( 3 ) Position of the seed on the plant ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
250 ( 4 ) Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... .
* ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
251 B. Lagenostoma S i n c l a i r i , Kidston M.S.\#151 ; ( 1 ) History , Locality , and Horizon of the specimens 251 ( 2 ) Morphology of the seed and " cupule " ... ... ... ... ... 252 ( 3 ) Position of the seed on the plant ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 253 ( 4 ) Summary ... ... . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 254 General conclusions ... ... ... ... ... 255 Explanation of the plates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
258 Introduction .
The recent discoveries of the female fructifications of more than onemember of the Cycadofilices mark an epoch in the history of the study of this great Palaeozoic group , and give a valuable clue to the phylogeny of the Cycads , an at one time numerous and important class of Spermophytes , some of which still survive at the present day .
It is somewhat remarkable that the discoveries of the seeds of two such diverse genera as Lyginodendron and Medullosa should have followed so closely on one another .
In May , 1903 , Professor Oliver and Dr. Scott* showed that a petrified seed of the Gymnospermous type , previously known as Lagenostoma Lomaxi , Will .
M.S. , belonged to Lyginodendron , a genus of Cycadofilices possessing much divided fern-like foliage of the * Oliver and Scott , " On Lagenostoma Lomaxi , the Seed of , " * Boy- Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 477 , 1903 ; and " On the Structure of the Palaeozoic Seed Lagenostoma Lomaxi , with a Statement of the Evidence upon which it is referred to dendron , " * Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 197 , p. 193 , 1904 .
type .
In the December of the same year , Mr. Kidston* described casts of a radiospermic seed in organic continuity with pinnules of Neuroptems heterophylla , a type of foliage which there is every reason to believe belonged to certain Palaeozoic stems known *as Mednllosa .
This seed he identified as closely similar to that first described by Gceppert and Berger as Rhdbdoca'ipus .
These discoveries have removed any possible doubt which remained as to the correctness of the conclusion that the stems , which bore such fern-like foliage as gphenopteris and Neuropteris , exhibit foreign to the true ferns , but common to the Gymnosperms .
As a corollary of this recent work , attention has been called afresh to the seed-like bodies which occur here and there , as casts or impressions , in the shales and sandstones of the Coal Measures .
I t would seem probable that since impressions of Sphenopterid fronds , some of which there is reason to believe represent the foliage of members of the Cycadofilices , occur fairly abundantly in these rocks , impressions or casts of seeds similar to should also be occasionally found .
The more so as several species of the much larger type of seed , shown by Mr. Kidston to belong to a plant of the Keuropteroid habit , are already known to science .
So far , Zagenostoma has been recorded only in the petrified state , i.e. , in a condition in which the anatomical structure is preserved .
But further search has been rewarded by the discovery of what are believed to be two new species , occurring as casts or impressions , which are described here .
These two species indirectly throw light on the habit of Zyginodendron , especially with regard to the manner in which the female organs were borne ; a character which is , with rare exceptions , extremely difficult to ascertain in the case of fossil plant-remains , owing to the fragmentary nature of the evidence .
I may here express my sincere thanks to Dr. Scott , F.B.S. , who has most kindly given me the benefit of his advice at every stage in the progress ofr this work , and to whom I am greatly indebted for valuable suggestions in regard to the interpretation of these specimens . !
I am also indebted to him for his kindness in communicating this paper .
My thanks are also due to Mr. L. A. Boodle , for three of the photographs reproduced on Plate 1 .
246 Hr .
E. A. Newell Arber .
New Species o f [ Jan. lo , * Kidston , " On the Fructification of Neuropteris , Brong .
, " ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 487 , 1903 ; ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 197 , p. 1 , 1903 .
+ A preliminary note on these specimens by Dr. Scott , in conjunction with the present writer , will be found in the forthcoming volume of the Report of the Cambridge meeting \#166 ; of the British Association .
Owing to the number of papers proposed at that meeting , this note was not communicated at the time .
1905.1 Lagenostoma , a Type 247 Seed .
A. Lagenostoma , K sp. nova .
( 1 ) History , Locality , and Horizon of the * Among the collection of Carboniferous plants in the British Museum ( Nat. Hist. ) , there is a large triangular slab of shale , * bearing numerous casts and impressions of seeds , for which the name , Lagenostoma Kidstoni , is proposed .
The specimen in question is merely recorded as from the Glasgow Coalfield .
I am , however , indebted to Mr. Kidston for information as to the locality and horizon from which it was obtained .
Mr. Kidston was aware of the existence of a precisely similar specimen in the Hunterian Museum , Glasgow , which he kindly identified , and through the good offices of Professor Graham Kerr and Dr. Scott , I obtained the loan of it for purposes of examination .
The Glasgow specimen , which was presented to that museum in 1867 by Mr. John Smith , bears a full record of the horizon and locality .
I t was collected from the Lower Coal Measures , at Swinhill Colliery , Stonehouse , Lanark , from the horizon of the Virtue Well Coal .
As has been stated , it is precisely identical with the specimen in the British Museum , and there is no reason to doubt that both specimens were obtained from the same bed , especially as Mr. Kidston possesses information confirming this conclusion .
I have much pleasure in naming this species in honour of my friend , Mr. Kidston , to whom I am greatly indebted for the trouble he has taken in this matter .
I may also here express my thanks to Professor Graham Kerr , and to Dr. Smith Woodward , Keeper of the Geological Department of the British Museum , for facilities for studying these specimens .
I regard the specimens at London and Glasgow as co-types .
( 2 ) Morphology of the Seed .
On both the slabs of shale preserved in the British Museum , and at Glasgow , casts or impressions of Lagenostoma Kidstoni are extremely numerous , and they are the only seeds to be observed on these specimens .
Slightly enlarged photographs of the Glasgow example are reproduced on Plate 1 , photos .
1 , 3 , and 4 ; the remaining photograph on the same plate ( photo .
2 ) being taken from the British Museum slab .
In the great majority of cases the seeds are preserved as casts .
The seeds measure on an average 6 mm. in length , and , at their greatest width , between 2*5 to 3 mm. in breadth .
They are nearly all of the same size .
As compared with the three known species of , L. Kidstoni is about the same length as fully-mature specimens of L. Lomaxif * Registered number in the Geological Dept. , V 6241 .
+ Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 198 .
248 Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
New Species of [ Jan. 10 ; and L. physoides , * but considerably longer than L. ovoides.f , is , however , a much broader type of seed .
On the whole , the new species stands nearest to L. physoides in point of size .
The seeds are undoubtedly of a radially symmetrical type , or radiospermic .
They are elliptical in shape ( Plate 2 , figs. 1 to 3 ) , and broadest midway between the apex and the chalaza .
The apex is a little more pointed than the base .
There is no reason to doubt that they were borne as sessile bodies on an axis .
The hilum is seen in a specimen figured on Plate 2 , fig. 2 .
The integument is smooth , and in instances where the carbonaceous film covering the seeds is preserved , it is characterised by numerous , longitudinally arranged , minute dots , having thus a punctate appearance ( enlarged drawings on Plate 2 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
Many of the seeds , especially those which appear to be less compressed , show several slight longitudinal ridges or keels .
The number of keels appears to equal the number of apical lobes , and they traverse the seed in such a manner as to end at the apex of each lobe .
These keels are conspicuous in photos .
1 , 3 , and 4 on Plate 1 , and are also seen in the enlarged drawing on Plate 2 , fig. 3 .
Somewhat similar ridges have been described in the seed , Lagenostoma Lomaxi\ In instances in which the preservation is particularly good , the rectangular form of the cell walls of the integument can be seen under a high magnification .
The appearance of these cells is shown on Plate 2 , fig. 6 , where they are magnified about 70 diameters .
The lobed nature of the integument at the apex of the seed at once distinguishes L. Kidstoni from any other seeds , preserved as casts which have been previously described .
In view of Williamson'sS description of the structure of Lagenostoma physoides , in identifying this seed as a member of that genus , although the structure in this instance is not preserved .
In this conclusion I am confirmed by the opinion of Professor Oliver , who has made a special study of the Palaeozoic petrified seeds , and who has very kindly examined this material .
The enlarged drawings of selected seeds reproduced on Plate 2 , figs. 1 and 3 , show that the apex is divided into several short , blunt lobes .
The apical lobes are also clearly seen in several of the photographs on Plate 1* * S * Williamson , " On the Organisation , Part VIII , " 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol 167 , p. 241 , , Plate 61 , figs. 77\#151 ; 78 , Plate 62 , fig. 79 , 1877 ; and Butterworth , " Some further Investigation of Fossil Seeds of the genus eagsonLtaom , etc. , " ' Mem. and Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 41 , Part 3 , Mem. IX , Plate 8 , 1897 .
t Williamson , ibid. , p. 234 , Plate 59 , figs. 53\#151 ; 59 , Plate 60 , figs. 60 \#151 ; 70 and 74\#151 ; 75Plate 61 , figs. 70 , 72\#151 ; 73 .
+ Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 198 .
S Williamson , ibid. , p. 241 , Plate 2 , fig. 77 ; also Butterworth , ibid. more especially in photos .
3 and 4 , and less distinctly in photo .
1 .
I t is difficult to judge of the exact number of lobes in such a cast , in which only one side of the seed is visible , but in several instances ( Plate 2 , fig. 3 ) in which the apex of the seed is particularly clear , there appear to be six lobes .
The number is not , however , necessarily constant .
In the species which stands nearest to that under discussion , the number varied from 10 to 11 , and in the other species , Lomaxi and L. ovoides , there are indications that the number of the fluted ridges at the apex , corresponding to the lobes in L. physoides and L. Kidstoni , was specimen .
I t is known from the investigations of petrified material of similar seeds that these lobes or flutings correspond to the chambers of a dome-like structure , the canopy , * which surrounds the pollen chamber .
Of the hundreds of these seeds which have been examined , whether in the Glasgow or the British Museum specimens , every one has proved to be naked .
At the stage of their development at which they are there represented\#151 ; a stage which appears to be the same in practically every instance\#151 ; there is reason to believe that the seed was not enclosed in any protective organ , similar to that described as the " cupule " f of Lomaxi , which played such an important role in the correlation of that seed with In only one instance ( Plate 2 , fig. 4 ; Plate 1 , photo .
4 ) has the presence of any structure been detected which could be regarded as of this nature , and here the organ in question does not obviously subtend , although it is in close proximity to a seed .
The preservation is not particularly good and its form is not very clear .
I t appears to consist of a circular or oval ribbed-sheath , probably of a foliar nature , divided distally into a large number ( considerably more than 15 ) of rather blunt , lanceolate teeth , each about 0*5 mm. in length .
The length , of the whole sheath is about 5 mm. Although there is no Upper Carboniferous foliar organ with which I am acquainted , that at all agrees with this sheath-like body , I am not disposed to attach any special importance to its occurrence here in the neighbourhood of a detached seed .
I t may be that the seeds of L. Kidstoni , like those of L. Lomaxi and L. Sinclairi , the latter to be described here subsequently , were enclosed in a " cupule " at an earlier stage in their development than that represented in these specimens , and that , like L. Lomaxi , the mature seeds may in most cases have been naked .
On this assumption , the organ under discussion might be interpreted as of the nature of a " cupule .
" This single instance , however , hardly furnishes reliable evidence on this point , and * Williamson , ibid. , p. 235 ; Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 203 .
+ Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 215 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. 1905 .
] Lagenostoma , a Type o f Pteridospermous Seed .
S for the present we can only conclude that these seeds were generally naked at the stage of their development represented in these specimens .
Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
Species o f [ Jan. lo , ( 3 ) j Position of the Seed on the Plant .
In the photographs .of the two specimens reproduced on Plate 1 , it will be noticed that the seeds are in most cases obviously detached .
Associated with them are several long , naked , rachis-like structures , seen in Plate 1 , photos .
3 and 3 , etc. Some of these axes are 25 cm .
or more in length , and vary from 3 to 13 mm. in breadth .
The surface as a rule is striated longitudinally , the striae being fine and regular .
In addition , very minute , crowded circular or oval pits , or in other cases slight prominences occur , and these are arranged more or less in pseudoparallel longitudinal rows along the median portion of the axis ( Plate 1 , photos .
1 and 3 ) .
In some instances , these rachis-like structures have been observed to branch .
In no case has any foliar organ been found attached to these branched axes .
In their general characters , however , they may be somewhat closely compared with portions of highly-compound fronds of the type .
There are strong reasons , as will be shown at a later stage in this work ( p. 254 ) , for regarding these branched structures as of the nature of compound fronds with reduced lamina , belonging to the same genus Sphenopteris .
This conclusion is founded mainly on the evidence of the seed itself , and that presented by L. Sinclairi , of which a description is included here , in addition to the characters of these rachis-like axes .
At first sight there appear to be several instances , in both the British Museum and Glasgow specimens , in which the seeds are still attached to these axes .
This is apparently the case in Plate 1 , photo .
4 , a portion of the Glasgow specimen .
A careful examination of this and similar examples has , however , shown that in no case is there any real evidence of continuity , and I regard these instances as probably due to chance association of detached seeds with the axis-like structures .
In dealing with such impressions it is necessary to be exceedingly guarded on the subject of continuity , for such association is often capable of a totally different explanation .
In only one case does it seem probable that these seeds may be still attached to the axis on which they were borne in the living state , and here the axis appears to be the termination of one of the finer branches of these rachis-like structures .
This specimen is figured on Plate 2 , fig. 5 , enlarged three times .
Here two seeds terminate the axis , which may very possibly be still in continuity , although even this.instance may not be entirely free from doubt .
If this specimen is rightly interpreted , there would appear to be some .evidence , though not as conclusive as one could wish , for the provisional view that the seeds , described here as Lagenostoma , were borne sessile on the terminations of the finer branches of a foliar organ of the type , which is probably best interpreted as a frond with reduced lamina.* Summary .
The chief conclusions with regard to the new seed , Lagenostoma , unay be summed up as follows:\#151 ; The seed is elliptical in shape , averaging 6 mm. in length , and 2*5 to 3 mm. at its greatest breadth .
I t is undoubtedly radiospermic .
The surface of the testa was smooth , and the seed was slightly ridged longitudinally .
The integument at the apex is divided into several lobes , probably .six in number in most cases .
In the condition of the integument at the apex , the seed agrees closely with Lagenostoma physoides , Will .
The number \#166 ; of keels , or longitudinal ridges of the testa , probably equalled the number of apical lobes .
The seeds are naked in these specimens , * and in all probability at this stage of their development were not enclosed in a " cupular " investment .
It is provisionally suggested that they were borne in a sessile manner on the finer terminations of a foliar organ , probably of the nature of a .compound frond of a Sphenopteris with reduced lamina .
1905 .
] Lagenostoma , a Type o f Pteridospermous Seed .
B. Lagenostoma Sinclai Kidston M.S. ( 1 ) History , Locality , and Horizon of the Specimens .
For the loan of the specimens of this Lagenostoma , I am indebted to Mr. Kidston , who recorded , f and intended to have described them , but he has very generously placed them at my disposal for description in relation to the other new species already discussed .
I may here express my thanks to Mr. Kidston for his kindness in this matter .
The specimenst are of Lower Coal Measure age , and were obtained from Grange Colliery , Kilmarnock , Ayrshire , on the horizon of the Stranger * This conclusion was briefly referred to by Dr. Scott in a lecture delivered in May , 1903 .
Vide Scott , " The Origin of Seed-bearing Plants , " Royal Inst. , ' May 15 , 1903 , p. 13 .
+ Kidston , " Some Fossil Plants collected from the Ayrshire Coalfield by Mr. A. Sinclair , " ' Annals , Kilmarnock Glenfield Ramblers ' Society , ' No. 4 , 1901\#151 ; 1904 , p. 14 .
X Registered numbers 3529\#151 ; 3531 in Mr. Kidston 's collection .
I regard these specimens as co-types .
252 Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
New Species of [ Jan. lo , Coal .
They were collected by Mr. A. Sinclair , of Kilmarnock , in 1889 , who also obtained a further specimen in 1903 .
Mr. Kidston recorded these specimens as Lagenostoma sp. , but he has since proposed in M.S. , in honour of the collector , the specific name , L. Sinclairi , which I have pleasure in adopting here .
( 2 ) Morphology of the Seed and " Cupule .
" As will be seen from the drawings on Plate 2 , figs. 7 to 11 , the specia .
interest of these specimens lies in the fact that many of the seeds are stilL enclosed in their protective envelopes , which are regarded as similar , morphologically , to the organ recently described as the " cupule " of L. The presence of a " cupule " naturally renders an exact description of the seed itself a somewhat difficult matter , but in some instances the " cupule " has apparently perished , and the seed is thus disclosed .
We may first consider what can be made out with regard to the morphology of the seed. .
The seeds appear to be somewhat smaller than in the case of L. They vary from 4 to 5*5 mm. in length , and at their widest part from 1*5 to 3 mm. in breadth .
In shape they are elliptical-oblong .
They are undoubtedly radially symmetrical ( Plate 2 , fig. 9 ) .
The integument is .
apparently smooth , and slightly ridged longitudinally .
There do not appear to be any lobes at the apex as in Kidstoni , but the apex is slightly notched or fluted ( Plate 2 , fig. 9 ) , recalling in this respect Lomaxi .
It is impossible in these specimens to determine the number of the longitudinal ridges , or of the flutings at the apex , but the apical characters , in conjunction with the general morphology of the seed , and the presence of a " cupule , " leave little doubt that they may be correctly assigned to the genus Lagenostoma .
The " cupule , " which encloses many of the seeds , varies from 8 to 9*5 mm. in length .
The average breadth of the seed including the " cupule " is about 3 mm. at its widest part .
The " cupules " appear to be attached to the axis slightly below the seed .
They are sac-like organs , prominently ridged longitudinally , and entire for a distance of 5 mm. or more from the base ( Plate 2 , figs. 8 and 11 ) .
At the apex they are divided into a number of lanceolate lobes , 1*5 to 2*5 mm. in length , or , perhaps , even longer ( Hate 2 , fig. 8 ) .
The preservation of the specimens is not , however , very good in this region , and the details cannot be made out with accuracy .
In the clearest examples the " cupule " appears to enclose the seed somewhat loosely , and the lobes at the apex are erect and not spreading .
It is impossible to obtain any evidence as to whether the seeds in these * Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 215 .
specimens are fully mature .
I t has been shown that in L. Lomaxi only the young seeds are constantly enclosed in a " cupule , " and that they are generally naked* when fully developed .
The same may have been the rule in I .
Sinclairi , in which case these seeds would be regarded as not having reached their full maturity .
But of this there is at present no conclusive evidence .
A microscopic examination of these " cupules " has not revealed the existence of any large , prominent capitate glands , similar to those which form so characteristic a feature of .the " cupule " of L. Lomaxi .
But in the ease of L. Sinclairi , the evidence on this point is of little value .
These seeds are preserved merely as structureless easts , and even if the preservation had been better than it is , it would be unlikely that delicate emergences of this type could be recognised supposing they had existed in the living state .
( 3 ) Position of the Seed on the Plant .
Another interesting point in connection with these specimens is found in the fact that the great majority of the seeds are still actually attached to the axes on which they were borne in the living state ( Plate 2 , figs. 7 , 8 , 10 , and 11 ) .
Here there can be no doubt as to the continuity of the seed , its " cupule , " and the branched axes .
The axis appears to have been of a highly-compound nature , and the seeds to have terminated the finer branches ( Plate 2 , figs. 7 and 10 ) .
The evidence of these specimens confirms the conclusion already expressed as the result of the recent investigation of Lagenostoma Lomaxi , that the seeds were in all probability not borne in a definite strobilus or cone , but that the fructification was a lax one.f As to the morphological nature of these axes , two views might conceivably be held .
In the first place , it is possible that they may be the ultimate branches of a compound shoot , i.e. , of the nature of a stem .
Some specimens of Lyginodendron have been recently found to have branched repeatedly , t and it is , therefore , conceivable that the axes in question may be of this nature .
It is , however , much more probable that the seed-bearing branches are modified fronds in which the lamina has been reduced .
The irregular nature of the branching in these specimens , and the fact that some of the seeds terminate short branches , and others are borne at the ends of the longer * Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 224 .
+ Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 229 .
t ' Lomax , " On some New Features in Relation to Lyginodendron 'Ann .
of Bot. , ' vol. 16 , p. 601 , 1902 .
1905 .
] Lagenostoma , a Type o f Seed .
254 Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
New Species o f [ Jan. 10 , axes , is readily intelligible on this view , and is unlike anything with which we are acquainted if these axes be really of the nature of shoots .
Also , the absence of any indication of foliar organs is remarkable on the latter supposition .
Bearing in mind the fact that in the only known case in which we have any evidence as to the manner in which the seeds were borne in the Cycadofilices , that of recently discovered by Mr. Kidston , they occur on the normal pinnae of a frond , the foliar nature of these branches in this instance is also highly probable .
This conclusion is supported by the highly-compound nature of the frond attributed toLyginodendron { Sphenopteris Hceninghausi ) , from which , by reduction lamina , these branches might well be derived .
In the case of Stur 's 'Calym matotheca Stangeri , a fossil recently discussed by Professor Dr. Scott , * the fructification is also borne on a frond .
Lastly , it has been shown that the anatomical evidence of Lagenostoma Lomaxi " clearly indicates* that the cupule together with the pedicel was of a foliar nature/ 't Wemay , therefore , conclude with every degree of probability that the branched axes on which the seeds , L. Sinclairiwere borne are segments of a compound frond with reduced lamina , and in view of the close affinity of this seed to that recently attributed to , in addition to the characters of these branched axes themselves , this frond was probably of the Sphenopteris type .
Summary .
The following is a brief summary of the morphology of the seed , Lagenostoma Sinclairi , Kidston M.S , The seeds are radiospermic , and elliptical-oblong in shape .
They vary from 4 to 5*5 mm. in length , and 1'5 to 3 mm. in breadth .
The testa is smooth , and slightly ridged longitudinally .
The integument at the apex is notched or fluted in a manner similar to the apical portions of Lagenostoma oroides and L. , The seed was enclosed in a " cupule , " in many respects recalling that of L. Lomaxi .
The length of the " cupule " is from 8 to 9*5 mm. The " cupule , " at the stage of development represented in these specimens , entirely envelopes the seed .
The " cupule " was a sac-like organ , prominently ridged longitudinally , and divided at the apex into a number of lanceolate , erect lobes .
The seeds , enclosed in their " cupules , " were borne on the terminations of the finer branches of a highly compound frond with reduced lamina , in all probability of the Sphenopteris type .
* Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 230 .
t Oliver and Scott , ibid. , p. 229 .
General Conclusions .
As has been already indicated , three species of Lagenostoma have been previously described , and these are known only in the petrified condition .
Although , in the case of the two new species discussed here , the internal structure of the seed is not preserved , they agree so closely in their general morphology with those already recorded that there can be no hesitation in referring them to the same genus .
L. Kidstoni approaches nearer to* L. physoides than to either of the other species , both in point of size , and in the important morphological characters presented by the apical lobes .
I t isr however , easily distinguished by the smaller number of lobes , as well as by the absence of other external characters peculiar to that species* On th\amp ; other hand , L. Sinclairi appears to agree more closely with ovoides asto size , and recalls also L. Lomaxi in respect to the condition of the integument at the apex of the seed and the presence of a " cupule .
" Although numerous casts or impressions of detached seed-like bodies from the Upper Carboniferous rocks of Britain and the Continent have been figured in various memoirs , I am not aware of any which may , without hesitation , be referred to the genus Lagenostoma .
There are , however , a few specimens described by Continental botanists , which may be mentioned in connection with the species under discussion here .
In 1804 , Schlotheim* figured a pinnately branched axis , on which numerous oval bodies , of fairly large size , and conceivably of the nature of impressions or casts of seeds , were attached to the secondary branches .
Schlotheim described these bodies as " Blasen " or " Beeren .
" Potonief has , however , re-examined Schlotheim 's specimen , and lias come to the conclusion that the bodies in question are really of the nature of diseased pinnules , due either to insect or fungal agency .
Other specimens figured by Gceppert , J and GeinitzS are probably of a similar nature , and there is no satisfactory evidence that the fronds in question , for which Gutbier , || in 1843 , proposed the name Weissites , are really the fertile leaves of Odontopteris .
There remain , however , some impressions , figured by GeinitzU in 1855 , and * Schlotheim , ' Ein Beitrag sir Flora der Vorwelt , ' p. 58 , Plate 13 , fig. 26 , 1804 ; 'Die Petrefactenkunde , ' p. 413 , 1820 .
t Potonie , " Die Flora der Rothliegenden von Thiiringen , " ' Abhaudl .
K. Preuss .
geol .
Lands , ' Never Folge , Heft 9 , Theil 2 , p. 32 , Plate 2 , fig. 1 , 1893 .
$ Goeppert , ' Die Gattungen der Fossilen Pflanzen,1 Lief 5\#151 ; 6 , pp. 98 and 100 , Plate 6 , 1841 .
S Geinitz and Gutbier , ' Die Versteinerungen des Zechsteingebirges . . .
Systems in Sachsen , ' vol. 1 , p. 21 , Plate 8 , fig. 8 , 1848 .
II Gutbier in Geinitz , ' Gaa von Sachsen , ' p. 85 , 1843 .
H Geinitz , 'Die Versteinerungen der Steinkohlenformation in Sachsen , ' pp. 21 and 57 , Plate 26 , figs. 10 , 10a , and 11 , 1855 .
1905 .
] Lagenostoma , a Type o f Seed .
regarded , on quite inadequate grounds , as the fructification of britannica , which are more worthy of consideration in this connection .
We are not here concerned with the question of their attribution , which appears^ to be still problematical , especially in the light of M. Grand'Eury 's recent suggestion* as to the probable nature of the female fructification of this genus , which does not agree at all with the characters exhibited by Geinitz s figures .
These specimens consist of a number of small bodies attached to an axis , but their structure is not very clear , judging by the drawings given .
I do not regard it as certain that these bodies are really of the nature of seeds , though I admit the possibility of their being of this nature , so far as one can judge without any opportunity of examining the actual specimens .
On the other hand , there is an equal probability that these specimens may b e of a similar nature to those figured by Schlotheim and Gceppert , to which reference has been made above , and this probability renders unnecessary any further comparison with the Lagenostomas described here .
I t has been already pointed out that the presence of a " cupule " in the case of L. Sinclairi is a character of special interest .
Of the three species previously recorded , only one has been found to have possessed this organ .
In L. physoides and L. ovoides , the seed appears , on the present evidence , to have been naked , a condition similar to that which pertained in the seed described here as L. Kidstoni at the stage in its development represented by specimens .
The " cupule " of L. Sinclairi probably differed only in details from that of L. Lomaxi .
I t forms , so far as one can judge , a close investment to the seed , and although lobed distally , the undivided portion is considerably longer than the seed itself .
A similar condition of affairs existed at certain periods in the development of the seed , Lomaxi .
In L. , the apical lobes appear to be erect , but in the living state their disposition was doubtless such as to allow free access for the microspores to the pollen- , chamber , a condition which we know to be necessary from the recent exposition of the pollination mechanism in seeds of this type .
A " cupular " investment to the seed is only known , at present , in three instances among the fossils of this period .
In L. Lomaxi and L. , the " cupule " subtends a single seed , whereas in Gnetopsis elliptical as many as four seeds may be Onclosed in one " cupule .
" These are the only recorded examples among Palaeozoic plants .
While our knowledge of this organ is , therefore , too scanty at present to afford sufficient evidence as to its origin and homologies ; it is , perhaps , permissible to enquire whether it may not in some * Grand'Eury , " Sir les grains des Neuropterideae , " * Comptes Bendas , Acad. Sci. vol. 139 , p. 25 , July 4 , 1904 .
t Benault , ' Course Bot. Foss .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 180 , Plate 20 , 1885 .
256 Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
New Species o f [ Jan. 10 , degree have been analogous to the carpellary investment of Angiospermous .seeds .
In the latter case , the functions of the carpels are manifold .
Not only do they contribute in a marked degree to the pollination mechanism of the seed , but at least one of their other functions is to serve as protections to the developing ovules .
The latter would seem to be the earlier and more primitive of the two , for in these Lagenostomas the protective function of the " cupule " is probably the main service which it performs , although \amp ; suspicion is not wanting that even here , where the " cupule " takes no direct part in pollination , it may have been of importance indirectly in furthering the act of fertilisation.* Thus , while offering no suggestion as to homologies , which may or may not exist between these two types of seminal investment\#151 ; a question which in the present position of our knowledge of these fossil seeds we are hardly warranted in discussing\#151 ; it can scarcely be doubted that the function of the " cupule " was in part at least that of a protective investment , and that the organ was in this respect analogous to the .carpels of the higher plants .
At the present time , we are acquainted with the manner in which the seeds were borne in the Pteridospermeae in one instance only .
The material on which the correlation of L. Lomaxi with Lyginodendron was based , did not afford any direct evidence of this nature .
But in the specimens recently described by Mr. Kidston , organic continuity existed between the foliar and reproductive organs .
I t was shown that , in some Medullosese , large seeds terminated an ordinary frond of the Neuropteris habit , with pinnules in similar to those of the sterile fronds of that genus .
The new specimens discussed here unfortunately yield no direct evidence as \#163 ; to the type of sterile frond associated with these seed-bearing axes ; which .themselves , apparently , did not bear foliar organs .
The presence of detached pinnae of Sphenopteris obtusiloba , which occur with both these seeds ( Plate 1 , photo .
2 ) , is , in itself , quite without any reliable value as an indication .of the character of the foliar organs of the plants to which these seeds belong .
But the general morphology of these branched axes indirectly affords some evidence on this point , and in Lagenostoma and possibly also in L. Kidstoni , we have the first clue to the habit of the Lyginodendreae as regards .the manner in which the seeds were borne .
In discussing the nature of the seed-bearing axes , it was pointed out ( P- 254 ) that they are best regarded as portions of a highly-compound frond with reduced lamina .
In the case of L. , although the long rachislike structures do not afford any conclusive evidence on this point , they nevertheless present many points of morphological similarity to the sterile * Oliver and Scott , ibid. , footnote , pp. 214 , 215 .
1905 .
] Lagenostoma , a Type o f Pteridospermous Seed .
258 Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
New Species o f [ Jan. 10 , " fronds of the genus Sphenopteris .
In L.the of the irregularly branched axes is that of a highly-compound frond , which , had it possessed a lamina , would in all probability be placed in .
the form-genus Sphenopteris .
Thus , in both cases , the evidence such as it is , agrees with the provisional .
conclusion that the sterile foliage associated with these seed-bearing axes was probably of the Sphenopteris type .
This conclusion is supported by the recent attribution of the seed L , Lomaxi to Lyginodendron , a stem known beyond doubt to have possessed frondsof this nature .
There is therefore reason to suppose that these new species which , in the morphology of their seed-bearing axes , recall the foliar organs of Lyginodendrori , and which in the nature of the seeds agree so well with L. Lomaxi , were borne by stems either of the genus Lyginodendron itself or of some other closely related member of the same family , possessing , in all probability , the Sphenopteris form of sterile foliage .
In L. , thepresence of a " cupule " \#151 ; a rare occurrence among Palaeozoic seeds\#151 ; not dissimilar to that which has been described in the case of lends additional support to this argument .
We have thus in these specimens the first definite clue to the habit of the Lyginodendrete as regards the female fructification , a character in which some of them , at least , differed from the Medulloseae .
We may picture them as plants which , in addition to the numerous , highly-compound fronds of the Sphenopteris type , bore others in which the lamina were wholly or partly reduced , the ultimate branches terminating in seeds with , or without a " cupular " investment .
In the lax arrangement of the fructification , the Pteridosperm .
Ee must have .
presented a striking contrast , in habit to the members of most of the other great Palaeozoic groups , in which the compact strobili were , for the most part , conspicuous and dominant types of sporangial aggregation .
Among living plants almost the only analogue is to be found in the female sporophyll of Cycas .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
P late 1 .
Lagenostoma Kidst , sp. nova .
( Photos .
1 , 3 and 4 by Mr. L. A. Boodle ; photo .
2 by Mr. H. G. Herring .
) Photo .
1 .
A portion of the Glasgow specimen , showing the numerous seeds scattered over the surface of the shale .
The longitudinal ridges and the apical lobes are clearly seen in many instances .
Three of the long rachis-like structures associated .with the seeds are shown .
X | .
arber .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B Vol. 76 , Plate 1 .
LAGENOSTOMA KID STO NI , sp .
n o v a .
rber\gt ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. B Vol. 76 , Plate 2 .
J - ALLKN * e .
M. W O ODW ARD .
LAQENOSTOMA KIDSTONI sp. n. \amp ; L. S INC LA IR I , Kidston m .s .
259 ' Photo .
2.\#151 ; A portion of the Britisli Museum specimen , showing several seeds .
A pinnuleof Sphenopteris obtusiloba is also seen .
Nat. size .
Photo .
3.\#151 ; A portion of the Glasgow specimen , showing numerous well-preserved seeds and portions of the rachis-like structures .
The apical lobes of several of the seeds ' are clearly seen .
X -f .
Photo .
4.\#151 ; A portion of the " Glasgow specimen , showing some well-preserved seeds .
A multilobed foliar structure , possibly of the nature of a " cupule , " is seen in the neighbourhood of one of the seeds , near the top of the ; photograph .
x f. * Plate 2 .
Lagenostoma Kidstoni , sp. nova , and L. , Kidston M.S. ( Drawings 1\#151 ; 4 and 6_ , by\#163 ; Mr. J. Allen ; drawings 5 and 7\#151 ; 11 by Miss G. M. Woodward .
) Fig. 1.\#151 ; Lagenostoma Kidstoni.\#151 ; A seed from the Glasgow specimen , showing five of the ' apical lobes .
X 8 , Fig. 2.\#151 ; L. Kidstoni.\#151 ; A seed from the Glasgow specimen , showing the hilum .
x 5 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; L. Kidstoni.\#151 ; A seed from the Glasgow specimen , showing six apical lobes. .
The integument , represented by a carbonaceous layer , is only preserved in the upper portion of the seed .
X 5 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; L. Kidstoni.\#151 ; The basal portion of a seed from the Glasgow specimen .
In the neighbourhood of the seed , a sheath-like body , possibly of the nature of a " cupule , " ' and divided into a nuniber'of teeth at the apex , is somewhat indistinctly seen .
The - same body is also seen in Plate 1 , photo .
4 .
X 3 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; L. Kidstoni.\#151 ; Several seeds , apparently in continuity with an axis .
The integument of the seeds is only partly preserved .
From the British Museum specimen .
X 3 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; L. Kidstoni.\#151 ; Highly magnified cells of the integument of a seed shown on the'1 Glasgow specimen , x about 70 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; L. Sinclairi.\#151 ; A highly branched axis , the branches being terminated by seedsrin most cases enclosed in a " cupule .
" Kidston Coll. No. 3530 .
Nat. size .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; L. Sinclairi.\#151 ; An enlarged drawing of two seeds enclosed in their " cupules , " andr borne on a branched axis .
Kidston Coll. No. 3531 .
X 5 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; L. Sinclairi.\#151 ; An enlarged drawing of a seed without its " cupule , " showing theflutings at the apex .
Kidston Coll. No. 3530 .
X 5 .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; L. Sinclairi.\#151 ; A number of seeds , most of which are enclosed in " cupules , " and attached to the finer branches of a compound frond with reduced lamina .
The ribbednature of the " cupule " is clearly seen .
Kidston Coll. No. 3529 .
Nat. size .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; L.Sinclairi.\#151 ; Two seeds enclosed in their " cupules , " of which an enlarged* drawing is shown in fig. 8 .
Kidston Coll. No. 3531 .
Nat. size .
1905 .
] Lagenostoma , a ] Type o f Pteridospermous Seed .

