II .
" On Remains of a large extinct Lama ( Palauchenia magna , Owen ) from Quaternary deposits in the Valley of Mexico .
" By Professor OWEN , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received March 22 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) The author premises to his descriptions of these remains a summary of the evidence of Fossil Cameloid Quadrupeds in the memoirs and works of Lund , Pictet , De Blainville , Gervais , Burmeister , and Leidy , deferring the further analysis and comparison of the descriptions by the latter palaeontologist to the conclusion of the present paper .
The subject of it consists of casts and photographs of fossils discovered by Don Antonio del Castillo , mining engineer , in a posttertiary deposit beneath volcanic tufa in the Valley of Mexico .
The fossils include the dentition of the left ramus of the lower jaw , wanting the incisors ; also the series of cervical vertebrae , wanting the first or atlas .
Assuming the incisors to be in number as in Ruminants , the dentition of this mandibular ramus is formularized as:-i 3 , c 1 , p 3 , m 3=10 .
Of the grinding-teeth , the three molars , with the last two premolars , form a close-set or continuous series of five teeth , the first of which ( p 3 ) is small , simple , conical , and obtusely pointed .
A still smaller or rudimental premolar ( p 2 or p 1 ) is situated in the long diastema between the series of five teeth and the canine ; the latter tooth is relatively smaller than in the Camel .
Detailed descriptions are given , illustrated by drawings , of each of the teeth , from which the author shows that they have belonged to a Cameloid species , as large as the larger variety of existing Dromedary , but with modifications of the teeth , testifying to a closer affinity with the Lama and Vicugna .
He then proceeds to give detailed descriptions , with figures , of the cervical vertebrEe ; they present the intraneural position of the vertebroarterial canals characteristic of the Camelidce , and of the extinct Perissodactyle genus Macrauchenia ; and the comparisons of the fossil vertebrae are made with the corresponding one of that extinct genus and of the existing species of Camelus and Auchenia .
The result of the comparison concurs with that of the dental characters in demonstrating the former existence in America of a Cameline Ruminant as large as the largest variety of living Camrel or Dromedary , with closer affinities to the Lamas and Vicugnas , yet with such departures from the dental and osteological characters of Auchenia , Illig .
, as justify the author in indicating them by the generic or subgeneric term Palauchenia , which he proposes for such extinct form of American Cameline quadruped .
The author , in conclusion , refers more at large to Prof. Leidy 's descriptions of Procamelus occidentalis , Leidy , and Camelops Kansanus , Leidy , pointing out the more important particulars wherein they differ from Palau chenia magna , Owen , and dwelling on the evidences of a progress from a more generalized to a more specialized type of Ruminant dentition in the extinct Cameloid forms succeeding each other , from the old Pliocene of Nebraska to the new or Postpliocene of Mexico .
Tables of dimensions of teeth and vertebrae of Palauchenia , Auchenia , and Camelus , and drawings arranged for one folding and three 4to plates , accompany the memoir .

