100 Mr. A. E. H. Love .
Note on the present [ Jan. 15 filled with a uniform glow whenever the discharge passed through the primary circuit , but , when the electrostatic induction was shielded off by pieces of wet thin blotting paper connected to earth , no glow could be observed , though the wet blotting paper is not a sufficiently I good conductor to shield off electromagnetic induction .
The maximum integral electromotive force round the secondary is shown to be VM/ L , where Y is the difference between the potentials of the coatings of the jar before discharge , L the coefficient of self-induction of the primary circuit , and M the coefficient of mutual induction between the circuits .
Though in my experiments this was greater than the electromotive force requisite for a discharge through gas at the same density between terminals separated by the length of the tube , not the faintest glow could be detected .
All my efforts to get a discharge through the secondary have so far been unsuccessful , * and I feel sure that the ease of getting a discharge without electrodes , say by the motion of the upper regions of the earth 's atmosphere across the lines of magnetic force , has been much over-estimated .
Until , however , we have got a discharge without electrodes through nothing but the gas itself , we are unable to say whether the passage of the discharge from the positive to the negative electrode which occurs in gases is a consequence of having matter in two states in the path of the discharge , or whether it is an example of a more general law , that , whenever tubes of electrostatic induction shorten in a conducting circuit , they do so in the direction of the electric displacement .
In conclusion , I have much pleasure in thanking Mr. Bartlett and Mr. Everett for the assistance they have given me ' in the course of this investigation .
II .
" Note on the Present State of the Theory of Thin Elastic Shells .
" By A. E. H. Love , M.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received January 3 , 1891 .
In a paper read before the Royal Society in February , 1888 , and published in ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , of that year , I advanced a theory of the mode of deformation that takes place when a thin shell is vibrat-ing .
The theory was founded on the form of the potential energy function , obtained by a method adapted from that of Kirchhoff for plates .
It appears that , in case there are no surface-stresses on the faces of the shell , this function consists of two terms , of which one contains a certain function W2 and the thickness 2 as factors , and * Since thi\#174 ; PaPer was sent in to the Royal Society , I have succeeded in getting a discharge without electrodes through a tube about 45 cm .
in circumference .
The , discharge did not exhibit any signs of stratification.\#151 ; Jan. 23 , 1891 .
1891 .
] State of the Theory of Thin Elastic Shells .
the other contains a function Wx and h3 as factors .
The term W3 depends entirely on quantities \lt ; q , \lt ; r2 , w , expressing the extension of the middle surface , while the form given for Wl contained only quantities expressing the changes of curvature .
Some previous theories proceeded as if Wx alone occurred , and , in fact , this was the case with a paper by Lord Rayleigh in ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society , ' vol. 13 , 1882 , on the " Infinitesimal Bending of Surfaces.of Revolution .
" In the latter paper , a theory of the vibrations of bells was founded on an assumed type , viz. , it was assumed that the middle surface remains unstretched .
In my paper it was shown that this solution of Lord Rayleigh 's fails to satisfy the boundary conditions which hold at the free edges of the bell , and further that it is , in general , impossible to satisfy these conditions , except by taking account of the extension .
I , therefore , proposed to substitute for the theory of Lord Rayleigh one in which extension of the middle surface of the bell is recognised as taking place , and I did not see how to avoid the conclusion that the term Wx must be rejected , and the term W2 retained , for the purpose of forming the differential equations and boundary conditions that govern the motion , in other words , that the extension practically determines everything\#151 ; the mode of vibration and the pitch .
Since that paper was written the subject has been investigated by Lord Rayleigh , Mr. Basset , and Professor Lamb , and the results of their work make it necessary to abandon the theory proposed .
I had overlooked a circumstance which shows that my theory of exten-sional vibrations is incapable of giving the gravest modes of vibration of which the shell is capable , viz. , the period given by Lord Rayleigh 's solution , founded on the assumed type , is , in the limiting case of vanishing thickness , infinitely long in comparison with the gravest extensional period .
Now it is a general dynamical theorem that the tone obtained by assuming the type cannot be graver than the gravest tone natural to the system , and it follows that the inode of deformation corresponding to the gravest tone is not included among the extensional modes .
This was pointed out by Lord Rayleigh in a paper read before the Society in December , 1888 , and published in the ' Proceedings .
' It had still to be shown , however , that vibrations mainly dependent on the bending could take place , and the boundary conditions be satisfied .
Although this has ilot yet been done in any particular case , the suggestion thrown out by Mr. Basset* and Professor Lamb , f probably contains the solution of the On the Extension and Flexure of Cylindrical and Spherical Thin Elastic Shells , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1890 .
f " On the Deformation of an Elastic Shell , " ' London Math. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 21 , 1890 .
' Theory of Thin Elastic Shells .
[ Jan. 15 , difficulty .
Each , of these writers has shown that , in particular statical problems relating to cylinders , the quantities expressing the extension can be very small everywhere except in the neighbourhood of an edge , and there they may increase with such rapidity as to secure the satisfaction of the boundary conditions , the total potential energy due to extension , which varies as the surface integral of AW2 over the middle surface , being , nevertheless , negligible in comparison with that due to bending , which varies as the surface integral of A3W. .
Mr. Basset and Professor Lamb both suggest that this may be the solution of the difficulty in the case of vibrations also , and their results point to a method of approximation which might be applied to the general case , and such that it could be verified by mathematical analysis that Lord Rayleigh 's solution , founded on an assumed type , is actually a very close approximation to the state of things in any part of a vibrating bell not very close to a free edge .
It may be as well to point out what parts of the theory put forward in my paper specially require revision .
( 1 .
) On p. 500 the alteration suggested in Kirchhoff 's theory is erroneous ; the quantities u ' , v , w ' are functions of \#171 ; , / 3 , and their differential coefficients must be introduced as by Kirchhoff , and afterwards neglected ; this correction makes no difference to any of the results .
( 2 .
) On p. 503 , Art .
4 , the products neglected are such as occur in the equations when account is taken of the fact that the axes of reference are really not in fixed directions .
If they had been retained , the part of the potential energy which is multiplied by would have contained terms depending on the extension as well as terms depending on the bending .
Mr. Basset has obtained , by a different method , the form of this function for cylindrical and spherical shells , with these terms expressed .
It follows that the form given for the potential energy m equation ( 12 ) , p. 505 , is only correct in case either ( a ) the sheil is unextended , when its second line vanishes , or ( \amp ; ) the extension is the important thing , when its first line may be neglected ; but it would most probably be sufficiently exact for the application of a method of approximation .
( 3 .
) The first paragraph of Art .
13 , p. 521 , is wrong , and so are all other paragraphs to the same effect ; viz. , it is incorrect to conclude that , because \lt ; r2 , v do not everywhere vanish , therefore W^3 is infinitely small in comparison with W2\amp ; .
It appears , on the contrary , that the values of aly \lt ; r2 , w can be very small indeed everywhere except close to the edges , in such a way that the integral of W , h , taken over the middle surface , is very small in comparison with that of W^3 .
The remainder of the paper must be understood as giving a theory of the extensional vibrations of the shell .
Such vibrations undoubtedly can exist , but they would be difficult to excite , and the theory of them has no application to vibrating bells under ordinary conditions .

