422 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
Correction of an [ Apr. 26 , must I be understood to say that all shying is due to defective eyesight ; further , it is possible for defective vision to be present without shying occurring , notably in Case 23 and several others .
Berlin considered the majority of horses to be hypermetropic ; I have only met with one case of very low hypermetropia out of 100 eyes .
Conclusion .
1 .
The chief visual defect in horses is myopia with or without astigmatism .
2 .
The amount of error is not great .
VI .
" Correction of an Error of Observation in Part XIX of the Author 's Memoirs on the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal Measures .
" By W. C. Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 28 , 1894 .
During the past two or three years we have acquired a much more accurate knowledge than we previously possessed of the structure of the leaves of the Lepidodendroid plants of the Coal Measures ; and my last memoir , published in vol. 184 ( 1893 ) of the Philosophical Transactions , contains some new and not unimportant details on this subject .
These facts were obtained from some finely preserved specimens of Lepidodendron Harcourti and of a Lepidophloios recently added to my cabinet .
But the value of these observations was seriously vitiated by an apparently small but very fundamental error into which I had fallen , an error which cannot be left uncorrected without misleading some of the palaeontologists who honour me by consulting my writings on these subjects .
The students of fossil botany have long distinguished the leaves of the Lepidodendron from those of the Genus Lepidophloios by the shape of the leaf-scar left on the pulvinus or leaf-cushion on the fall of the deciduous leaf .
These scars are always more or less quadrilateral in form , two of their angles following in opposite directions the long axis of the parent stem or branch , the other two pointing transversely across that axis .
In Lepidodendroid leaves there is little difference in the lengths of these pairs of decussating angles , but in Lepidophloios the two transverse ones are much more prolonged than the vertical ones are , making the transverse diameter of the leaf-scar greatly exceed that in the opposite direction .
Whilst attached to the stem or branch of a Lepidodendron these leaves always point upwards towards its apex ; and when I wrote the memoir referred to above , I had no reason for supposing that this was not also the case with the foliage of Lepidophloios , and my two 1894 .
] Error in the Author a Memoirs on Fossil Plants .
423 figures 33 and 34 were drawn in accordance with this belief ; but during a visit recently paid to England by my old friend Professor Graf Solms-Laubach , he informed me that such is not the case .
As soon as the leaves of Lomatophloios are developed , instead of ascending , they bend downwards , overlapping and hiding the leaf-cushion from view .
I found from Count Solms that Lomatophloios is much more .common in Germany than in England ; consequently our friends across the water are more familiar with its aspect than we Englishmen are .
Nevertheless , when thus enlightened by my friend , I found fragments in my collection which made clear to me that T had fallen into an error .
It follows from this fact that several of my figures in Part XIX illustrating the structure of these leaves are simply turned upside down , and require to be reversed .
This is the case with fig. 13 on Plate 2 , and with figs. 33 , 34 , 36 , and 37 on Plate 4 .
Thus drawn , these figures misrepresent the relative positions of three important internal structures , viz. , the Leaf-trace , the bifurcating Parichno.s , and what has received the name of the Ligule .
Our attention was , I believe , first called to this latter organ by the late Professor Sturr , of Vienna , but it has subsequently been further commented on by Professor Bertrand , of Lille , in conjunction with M. Hovelacque , of Paris .
It is now clear that the Leaf-trace is the more central organ , having the so-called Ligule above and the double Parichnos below it .
Apart from their inversion , my figures of these organs are absolutely accurate .
Pig- 13 , in Plate 2 , though belonging to a true Lepidodendron , represents the Parichnos g , as resting upon the Leaf-trace c.In thus arranging these two organs in a Lepidodendron , I was misled by the specimen represented in Plate 4 , fig. 36 .
All these errors , arising from a common misunderstanding , are now corrected .
Of course it follows that all such terms as upper and lower , used in the text describing the above-named five figures , must be severally reversed .
On p. 9 of my memoir I criticised the application by MM .
Bertrand and Hovelacque of the name Ligule to the organ to which they had assigned it , because they thus identified the organ as being the homo-logue of the appendage so named in the living Selaginellas .
In the latter case the -Ligule springs from the upper surface of the leaf , whereas the mistaken impression under wThich I laboured , led me to believe that in the fossil forms it sprang from the under side .
Of course , any argument based upon the latter supposed fact now falls to the ground .
At the same time , like Solms-Laubach , I should be cautious in accepting this supposed homology as proven .
Nevertheless , some curious points of resemblance between the primeval and the recent types make this identity far from impossible.* * It appears to me that much uncertainty exists amongst Palseobotanists re-

