Philos. Trans. Vol. LVII .
TAB. XVI.p.389 .
HG 34E VI VI 25* Fig. 3 .
16 FZ*7I VII V 11 8 ***K VIII IV 10 9 C 9 10 L IX III Fig. 1 .
* 8* 11 MX II *N XI I defg7AiklmnDO BPy VI VII 6yV 5432e VIII IIII dK 567 IX cApG8 o setub3n9X V VI VII r IIII 2m IX ~ pXl XI o Fig. 4 .
XI BPAHD XII Fig. 2 .
cdnq1 f Ir 2 10 II 993 II III h8uI4 IIII V VIII lL k XXXVI .
A new Method of constructing SunDials , for any given Latitude , without the Assistance of Dialing Scales or Logarithmic Calculations .
By James Ferguson , F. R. S. DRAW the straight horizontal line BADTA B. XVI .
( fig. 1 .
) of any convenient length , and on the end D thereof raise the perpendicular D E. Read July 2 , 1767 .
Bisect BAD at A , and draw the right line AC E , making the angle EAD equal to the latitude of the place for which the dial is to serve , as suppose 51 ~ 1/ 2 for the latitude of London .
Draw also the right line FC D , making an angle at D with the horizontal line BAD equal to the co-latitude of the place , or height of the equinoctial .
So , FCD will be perpendicular to AC E , BAD will be a horizontal plane seen edgewise , DEa vertical plane , FCD the plane of the equinoctial , and ACE the axis or stile of the dial ; the whole triangle ADE representing the whole broad plate or stile .
Around the intersection C , as a center , with the radius C D , describe the circle F6D6 F , and divide its circumference into 24 equal parts , beginning at D or at F. Then connect all the points of division , which are equidistant from F , by the straight lines 1 11 , 2 10 , 3 9 , 4 8 , &amp;c. continuing as many of these lines as are needful to the horizontal line BA D , and to the vertical line D E. Continue ED down to d ( fig. 2 .
) and draw bd parallel and equal to B D. Draw also the right line Aec a , from fig. 1 .
to fig. 2 , and that the line will be perpendicular to the line bd in fig. 2 .
cutting it in the middle point c. From fig. 1 .
take CF or CD in your compasses ; and in fig. 2 .
set that distance from c to e upwards , and from c to a downwards , on the right line Aec a. So eca in fig. 2 .
shall be equal to FCD in fig. 1 .
and bcd in fig. 2 .
shall be equal to BAD in fig. 1 .
On these two lines bcd and eca make the ellipsis bopq r , &amp;c. according to the common rule for describing an ellipsis upon the transverse and conjugate diameters bcd and ec a. Then , from those points in the horizontal line BAD ( fig. 1 .
) where the right lines 11 1 , 2 10 , 3 9 , &amp;c. meet it , as at d , e , f , g , h , A , i , k , l , m , n , draw the right lines do , ep , fq , gr , &amp;c. quite through the ellipsis , and all parallel to the right line Aec a. Then , from the middle point c of the ellipsis , draw right lines to those points of its circumference where the foresaid parallel lines cut it ; and they shall be the true hour-lines for a horizontal dial ; to which set the hours , as in fig. 2 .
Lastly , in fig. 2 .
draw cy parallel to ACE in fig. 1 .
and cy shall be the axis or edge of the stile c die that casts the shadow on the time of the day .
The horary spaces , or angular distances of the hours on the dial , being thus found , there is no occasion for confining the hours thereon , or the lengths of the hour-lines , within the ellipsis ; for they may produced beyond it to any distance , and the hourletters placed in a circle , as in fig. 4 .
A geometrical method for describing the whole or half an ellipsis will be shown further on .
From fig. 1 .
contiue out the horizontal line BAD to any length , as to XII in fig. 3 .
Then , from the points *** in the perpendicular DE ( fig. 1 .
) where the parallel lines 5 7 , 4 8 , 3 9 , 2 10 , and 1 11 meet it , draw the right lines H , I , K , L , M , N , all parallel to the horizontal line BADP XII .
producing them at pleasure : and , in fig. 3 .
draw G XII parallel to DE in fig. 1 .
This done , take CF or CD ( fig. 1 .
) in your compasses , and set off its length both ways from G ( fig. 3 .
) to VI and VI , on the right line EHVIGV I. So VIGVI in fig. 3 .
shall be equal to FCD in fig. 1 .
and XII G in fig. 3 .
shall be equal to DE in fig. 1 .
On VIGVI as a conjugate diameter , and G XII as a semi-transverse diameter , describe the semi-ellipse VI , VII , VIII , IX , &amp;c. and , to those points of it where the parallel lines H , I , K , L , M , and N cut it , draw the right lines G VI , G VII , G VIII , G IX , &amp;c. as in the figure ; and they will be the true hour-lines for an erect direct south dial : and they may be produced beyond the ellipsis , and limited either by circular or square lines , between which the hours may be placed .
Lastly , draw PG in fig. 3 .
parallel to ACE in fig. 1 .
and PG will be the axis or edge of the stile P XII G for casting a shadow on the time of the day .
And thus , by means of fig. 1 .
constructed for any given latitude , either a horizontal or vertical dial may be made for that latitude .
If you want a south dial to incline by any number of degrees , as suppose 16 , draw the line D z , making an angle of 16 degrees with the perpendicular DE , in fig. 1 .
Then Dz shall be the semi-transverse axis of the ellipse , and C6 the semi-conjugate : and right lines drawn parallel to DP XII quite through the semi-ellipsis , from the points *** in Dz , where it is cut by the parallel lines 5 7 , 4 8 , 3 9 , &amp;c. shall cut the semi-ellipsis in those points through which the hour-lines must be drawn , as from G in the upright south dial , fig. 3 .
If you want to make a reclining south dial , draw the line DH ( fig. 1 .
) making an angle with the perpendicular DE equal to the intended angle of reclination , and produce DH and CE till they meet .
From D to that meeting , will be the length of the semi-transverse axis of the ellipse , and from C to 6 the length of the semi-conjugate : which being found , proceed in all respects as above for the south upright dial .
To draw the ellipsis , and find the hour-points in it , observe the following method .
For a horizontal dial , as fig. 4 .
Make the radius AK of the circle BKDL equal to AD in fig. 1 .
and cross the circle at right angles by the two diameters BAD and KA L , and divide the circle into 24 equal parts , beginning at B. Connect these points of division , which are equidistant from B , by the right lines af , bg , ch , &amp;c. all parallel to KA L , as in the figure .
Make the radius AG of the circle FGHI in fig. 4 .
equal to CF in fig. 1 .
and divide FGHI into 24 equal parts , beginning at 1 .
Then through these points of division , which are equidistant from I , draw the right lines 7 5 , 8 4 , 9 3 , 10 2 , &amp;c. till they meet the former right lines , ek , di , ch , &amp;c. in the points 7 5 , 8 4 , 9 3 , 10 2 , and 11 1 , on both sides of the diameter BAD ; all which points are in the elliptical curve , and it is to be drawn through them , by hand , as in the figure .
And right lines drawn from the center A through these points in the ellipsis , will be the true hour lines for a horizontal dial .
To draw the ellipsis for a vertical south dial , make DE ( in fig. 1 .
) the radius of the largest circle , and CF the radius of the smallest : the diameter of the former gives the transverse diameter of the ellipsis , and that of the latter gives the conjugate : which being found , construct the ellipsis the same way for the vertical dial as above shown for the horizontal ; then draw the hour-lines in the same manner , from the center of the dial , through those points of the ellipsis where the intersections of the cross-lines meet it , as in the horizontal ; and the thing will be done .

