154 Dr. E. Klein .
On the [ Feb. 5 , Februarg 5 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; I. " The Relation of Bacteria to Asiatic Cholera .
" By E. Klein , M.D. , F.R.S. , Joint Lecturer on General Anatomy and Physiology at the Medical School of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , London .
Received January 28 , 1885 .
1 I propose to bring before the Royal Society the results of an inquiry into the etiology of Asiatic cholera , undertaken , at the instance and expense of the Secretary of State for India , by myself , Dr. Gibbes , and Mr. Alfred Lingard while in India .
This investigation will be published in extenso by the India Office , but permission has been granted to us to bring to the notice of the Society some of the more important points of our inquiry , particularly those regarding the relation of bacteria to Asiatic cholera .
I shall supplement them by giving the results of further observations which I have made since my return from India .
As is now well known , Dr. Robert Koch , in an extensive inquiry into the etiology of cholera in Egypt , Calcutta , and in France , 1883-84 , undertaken by him , Drs. Gaffky and Fisher , at the instance of the German Government , has arrived at certain conclusions , which briefly stated are these : 1 .
In all persons suffering from Asiatic cholera there occur in the rice-water stools during the acute stage of the disease certain well-characterised bacteria , which , on account of their curved shape , Koch called " comma bacilli .
" 2 .
These comma bacilli are mobile rods , of small size , of about the same thickness as tubercle bacilli , but only of half their length ; they a , re always more or less curved , sometimes as much as to form half a circle ; they vary in length according to the state of growth ; they occur either singly or in couples , in the latter ease arranged like an S. 3 .
The comma bacilli occur in great numbers in the mucus flakes as well as in the fluid of the choleraic evacuations .
They occur in the lower part of the ileum of persons 'dead in the acute stage almost to 1885.1 Relation of Bacteria to Asiatic Cholera .
155 the exclusion of other bacteria , and in such great numbers that the lower part of the ileum may be considered to contain almost " a pure cultivation of comma bacilli .
" 4 .
The mucous membrane of the ileum , particularly that of the 'lower part , around and in the lymphatic glands located here\#151 ; the ( solitary and Peyer 's lymph-glands\#151 ; exhibits in typical and rapidly i fatal cases characteristic alterations : loosening and detachment of the epithelium of the surface and of that lining the glands of Lieberkiihn ; swelling of the mucous membrane and congestion of its blood-vessels , particularly at the peripheral portions of the lymph glands .
These alterations are due to the presence , growth , and multiplication of the comma bacilli in these tissues , and the disease cholera is caused by the production on the part of these comma bacilli , and by the absorption on the part of the system of a special chemical ferment .
This state of the presence of the comma bacilli in the tissue is best pronounced in the lower part of ileum ; higher up it is more limited , and gradually diminishes , and finally disappears in the upper part of the small intestine .
5 .
The blood and other tissues are free of any organisms .
6 .
The comma bacilli grow well outside the body at the ordinary temperature of the room , but better still at higher temperatures up to 38 ' or 40 ' C. They divide transversely ; after division the two offsprings may remain joined end to end with shape of an S , and by further division they may grow into a spiral-like or wavy form .
They grow well in the mucus flakes taken from the intestine , and placed on linen kept in a moist cell ; they grow well on potato , in broth , in Agar-Agar jelly , in solid nourishing gelatine mixture ( gelatine , peptone , and beef extract ) .
In this latter substance they exhibit a peculiar and definite mode of growth not seen by Koch on any other bacteria .
The comma bacilli require for their growth an alkaline medium ; they are killed by acid , by drying , and various antiseptic media .
7 .
On account of their constant occurrence in the intestines of patients suffering from Asiatic cholera , on account of their absence in all other diseases of the intestine , and on account of their peculiar mode of growth in nourishing gelatine , Koch vindicates for these comma bacilli not only an important diagnostic value , but also considers them as the true cause of cholera .
8 .
Since his return to Germany , Koch has convinced himself of the correctness of the observations of Nicati and Rietsch , who maintain that cholera can be produced in dogs and guinea-pigs by injecting directly into the small intestine of these animals the comma bacilli taken either directly from the choleraic evacuations , or from artificial cultivations .
M 2 [ Feb. 5 , 156 Dr. E. Klein .
On the Our investigations enable ns to say this : 1 .
Koch 's statement as to the almost constant occurrence of comma bacilli in the rice-water stools of cholera patients is correct ; the comma bacilli vary greatly in numbers in different stools and in different cases , in some being exceedingly scarce , in others .
numerous . .
: 2 .
These comma bacilli vary greatly in length , some being twice and three times as long as others , some well curved as much as to form half a circle , others showing only just a slight bend .
The name comma bacillus is inappropriate , as in reality they are vibrios .
3 .
The comma bacilli occur in the mucus flakes of the rice-water stools as well as in those taken from the ileum of a person dead of cholera .
The sooner after death the examination is made , the fewer comma bacilli are found in the mucus flakes ; in several typical rapidly , fatal cases the mucus flakes taken from the ileum and examined soon after death ( from between fourteen minutes and an hour or an hour and a half ) contained the comma bacilli only very sparingly indeed , and not to the exclusion of other bacteria .
Our investigations do not bear out Koch 's statement as to the lower part of the ileum being in acute typical cases of cholera almost " a pure cultivation of comma bacilli .
" In not one of the many post-mortem examinations of typical acute cases have we found such a state .
4 .
The mucous membrane of the ileum of typical rapidly fatal cases , if examined soon after death , does not contain in any part any trace of a comma bacillus or any other bacteria , not even in the superficial loosened epithelium .
If the post-mortem examination is sufficiently delayed , comma bacilli and other bacteria may be found penetrating into the spaces of the mucous membrane .
The theory of Koch 's as to the comma bacilli present in the mucous membrane secreting a chemical poison inducing the disease cannot , therefore , be correct .
5 .
Neither the blood nor any other tissue contains comma bacilli or any other micro-organisms of known character .
6 .
The behaviour of the comma bacilli in artificial media is not such as to justify their being considered as specific .
They grow well in alkaline and neutral media , are not killed by acids , and their mode of growth in gelatine mixtures , however peculiar , is not more peculiar than that of other putrefactive bacteria ; they show marked differences when grown in different media , but not more so than the ordinary putrefactive bacteria when compared in their growth with one another .
The manner in which the choleraic comma bacilli grow in gelatine is identical with that shown by the comma bacilli of the mouth of healthy persons ( Lewis ) in , that same medium .
7 .
Koch overlooked that " comma bacilli " occur in other intestinal 1885 .
] Relation of Bacteria to Asiatic Cholera .
157 diseases , in the months of healthy persons , and as shown recently , even in some common articles of food .
8 .
The experiments performed by Koch and others on animals do not in the least prove that the comma bacilli are capable of producing cholera or any other disease .
The results obtained by them are much easier explained in a manner opposed to that giyen by Koch and others .
9 .
There is direct evidence to show that the water contaminated with choleraic evacuations , and containing , of course , the comma bacilli , when used for domestic purposes , including drinking , by a large number of persons , did not produce cholera .
: 10 .
The mucus flakes taken from the small intestine of a typical rapidly fatal case of cholera contain numerous mucus corpuscles filled with peculiar minute straight bacilli ; in this state they are found when the examination is made very soon after death ; soon , however , the mucus corpuscles swell up and disintegrate , and then their bacilli become free .
, The small bacilli are never missed in the mucus flakes .
They are only one-third or one-fourth the length of the comma bacilli , and about half their thickness .
They are non-mobile ; they grow well in Agar-Agar jelly , but show in their mode of growth no peculiarity by which they could be considered as specific .
When grown on the free surface of the nourishing material they form spores .
11 .
These small bacilli are not present in the blood , in the mucous membrane of the intestine , or in any other tissue .
12 .
Experiments made with these small bacilli on animals produced no result .
13 .
Since my return to London I have ascertained that the comma bacilli of cholera show two distinct modes of division , one the known one of transverse division , and a second one of division in length .
When growing in Agar-Agar jelly at the ordinary temperature of the room , after some days the bacilli swell up owing to the appearance in their protoplasm of one or more vacuoles ; as these vacuoles increase , so the comma bacilli become gradually changed first into planoconvex , then into oblong bi-convex , and ultimately into circular corpuscles .
The longer the original comma bacillus , the larger the final circle .
These circular organisms are mobile just as the comma bacilli , and by disintegration of the protoplasm at two opposite points two perfect more or less semicircular comma bacilli are formed .
Growing the comma bacilli in Agar-Agar jelly kept at higher temperatures ( 30-40 ' C. ) , they multiply by transverse division only , but transferring these to Agar-Agar jelly and keeping this at the ordinary temperature of the room , they again gradually change into circular organisms , which , by division in the diameter of the circle , form two new comma bacilli .

