340 Dr. W. C. Sturgis .
A Bacillus change whatever was detected in the elastic condition of the material .
the process of recovery seemed to be neither accelerated nor retarded .
For the compression experiments described in the paper , an instrument , specially designed by Professor Ewing , was employed to measure the small compressional strains .
By the aid of this instrument , the semi-plasticity of recently overstrained iron was readily observed , and the effect of moderate temperature in restoring elasticity was demonstrated by means of compression tests .
The lowering of the compression yield-point which accompanies the raising of the tension one ( due to tensile overstrain ) was also clearly shown .
This lowering , however , was not found to be such as to keep the total range of elasticity for the material constant ; that is , the lowering of the compression yield-point Avas not found to be equal to the raising of the tension one .
In conclusion , the characteristics of overstrained iron are considered as illustrating Maxwell 's views on the " Constitution of Bodies , " as set forth by him in the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica .
' " A Soil Bacillus of the Type of De Bary 's B. " By W. 0 .
Sturgis , M.A. , Ph. D. Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.B.S. Received January 27 , \#151 ; Bead February 9 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The organism A\diich forms the subject of these investigations was isolated from clayey and gravelly soil , at a depth of about an inch below the surface .
It is a straight , or slightly curved bacillus of rather large size , measuring 3-4\#151 ; 7'7/ x x P2\#151 ; l'5y , and occurs either as isolated rods or in the form of long chains .
Its peculiar interest lies in the fact of its marked predilection for acid media , and its behaviour in the presence of carbohydrates .
It also offers peculiar advantages for the study , by direct observation in hanging drops , of the formation and germination of the spores , the formation of gelatinous sheaths , the-co-existence of motile and non-motile stages , and the rejm^enescence of so-called involution forms , the former process especially being Arery rapid under suitable conditions .
The organism forms on solid , acid media , such as saccharose-gelatine , large , domed , translucent drops , consisting of chains of rods provided with thick , firm , and gelatinous sheaths .
The latter character is exhibited only in media containing carbohydrates , especially cane sugar ; in media devoid of carbohydrates the colonies are slimy rather than gelatinous , and consist of almost naked rods and chains .
Moreover , even in the presence of sugar , the formation of an iirvesting sheath is largely dependent upon the age of the culture , the Augour of the of the Type of De Barfs B. megatherium .
341 material , and the degree of condensation of the medium .
Thus if a gelatine culture becomes liquefied , either by the normal liquefying action of the bacillus itself , or by the addition of water , the sheath gradually dissolves , and the colonies disintegrate into flocculent masses of rods possessing only very thin sheaths .
In liquid cultures the rods are practically non-capsuled from the beginning , and the same is true of cultures on solid , saccharine media , if the material used has been previously attenuated by being subjected to temperatures below 15 ' C. As has been said , the organism slowly liquefies sugar-gelatine ; on peptone-gelatine the same effect is produced , but more rapidly .
In neutral media growth is extremely slow , even under the most favourable conditions otherwise .
The growing organism is somewhat intolerant of low temperatures , and very susceptible to changes of temperature , a variation of two or three degrees exercising a very marked effect upon the rate of growth .
It is probable that the minimum temperature for growth is in the neighbourhood of 10 ' C. , and the maximum about 35 ' C. At a temperature of 22 ' C. , growth is rather slow as compared with some other species , notably B. subtilis , Ehr .
The spores are able to withstand a temperature of 100 ' C. maintained for five minutes .
Although the organism is normally aerobic , growth occurs with almost equal vigour in vacuo or in pure hydrogen as in air , provided that vigorous material is used , and that both the medium and the temperature are favourable .
It is therefore a facultative anaerobe .
When growing directly on the surface of the gelatine , the colonies tend to take the form of coiled and twisted strands , composed of long , parallel , septate filaments .
In milk , the organism produces peptonisation and an alkaline reaction , but without coagulation .
On potato the growth is spreading , whitish and slimy or viscous , and consists of non-capsuled rods .
Later it becomes dry and cheesy , and eventually distinctly yellow in colour .
On agar , whether in the presence of sugar or peptone , flat , circular , cheesy colonies are produced , which are tawny in colour , and emit a strong odour resembling melted glue .
Spores are produced abundantly on various media , the time required varying from twenty-two to seventy hours , according to the medium and the temperature .
Spore-formation proper is preceded by peripheral condensation of the cytoplasm on the walls of the rod , leaving one or two large central vacuoles .
The bulk of the cytoplasm then collects at one end of the rod , minute portions being left behind as a thin , irregular lining on the walls , and on the septum dividing the rod from its neighbour .
The distal portion of the cytoplasm then condenses , and finally forms an oval spore , occupying an oblique position in one end of the rod , and measuring 2\#151 ; 2-8/ x x 08\#151 ; 1/ x. It escapes by the dissolution of the thinner portion of the wall .
The- spore 342 A Soil Bacillus of the Type of Be Barfs B. megatherium .
' germinates at one end in a direction parallel to the longer axis .
The subsequent growth of the chains is intercalary as well as terminal .
The rate of growth was obtained by taking consecutive measurements of vigorous rods or chains , and noting the time required for the original length to double .
This time , according to the terminology suggested by Marshall Ward , is known as the " doubling period .
" In this case the doubling period in saccharose-broth at 22-5 'C .
is forty-eight minutes , at 19-5\#151 ; 20'5 ' C. , 120 minutes .
The slow growth of this organism at these temperatures , and its sensitiveness to slight changes of temperature , are well illustrated by these and similar observations .
When united in long chains the organism is non-motile , but rods and short chains freshly produced from spores or involution-forms in liquid media exhibit active motility , especially at temperatures between 23 ' C. and 33 ' C. This consists of progressive , undulating , and rotary motions , and may last for several hours .
It is confined to isolated rods , and to chains of not more than three to six individuals .
Progressive motion is never observable in chains of more than three united rods .
Involution-forms are produced commonly in old cultures , or in cultures made at low temperatures .
They consist of enormously swollen , fusiform , or drum-stick bodies , the contents of which are composed of coarsely granular cytoplasm and numbers of oily globules .
In some cases the cytoplasm is found to have undergone plasmolysis , but if this has not gone too far , the involution forms are able to develop into normal rods if transferred to a suitable environment .
The organism is non-pathogenic , produces no pigment or evolution of gas , and stains readily with carbol-fuchsine , aniline-gentian-violet , or by Gram 's method .
In conclusion it may be said that this bacillus presents many points of resemblance to certain well-known species , but at present it may be impossible to refer it accurately .
From B. Lib. , it is distinguished by its facultative anaerobism , its colour , its mode of liquefaction , \amp ; c. ; from B. subtilis , Ehr .
, B. vulgatus ( Fliigge ) , Mig .
, and B. mesentericus ( Flfigge ) , Lehm .
andNeum .
, by various minor characters .
The description of Russell 's B. granulosus is not sufficiently detailed to make an accurate comparison possible .
That it is closely allied to De Bary 's B. megatherium is very evident , and it is quite possible that prolonged investigation of the two forms side by side may prove them to be identical .
In that case added interest will attach to my investigations , in the way of showing the remarkable variations which may be produced within the limits of a single species , by different methods of treatment , De Bary 's form being nearly twice as thick as this one .

