1891.1 Note on the Density of Alloys of Nicleel and Iron .
121 3 .
The vaso-motor disturbances are on the same side as the lesion , and consist of vaso-dilation , swelling of the foot , and redness with rise of temperature of the skin of the foot , but , as compared with the opposite side , fall of temperature in the popliteal space on the side of the lesion , due , no doubt , to paralysis of the muscles .
4 .
The degenerations above and below the lesion are limited to the same side when the injury is perfectly unilateral .
There are certain facts connected with the degenerations which serve to show the origin and course of certain long and short tract fibres .
5 .
Stimulation of the cortex cerebri on both sides some weeks or months after the hemisection had been performed gave , as a rule , residts which showed that the block in the spinal cord produced by the hemisection still existed , although there had been a very complete return of associated movements .
6 .
In one case ablation of the leg area on the same side as the lesion in the spinal cord was performed many months afterwards .
II .
" The Origin and Progressive Motions of Cyclones in the Western India Region .
" By W. L. Dallas .
Communicated by R. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received June 2 , 1891 .
III .
" Note on the Density of Alloys of Nickel and Iron/ ' By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. Received June 3 , 1891 .
In the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' December 12 , 1889 , January 16 , 1890 , and May 1 , 1890 , I described certain properties of alloys of nickel and iron containing respectively 22 per cent , and 25 per cent , of nickel .
These alloys can exist in two states at temperatures between 20 ' or 30 ' C. below freezing and a temperature of near 600 ' C. After cooling , the alloys are magnetisable , have a lower electric resistance , a higher breaking stress , and lesser elongation ; after heating the alloys are not magnetisable , have a higher electric resistance , a lower breaking stress , and greater elongation .
I have now to add another curious property .
These alloys are about 2 per cent , less dense when in the magnetisable than when in the non-magnetisable state .
Two rings were tested containing respectively 25 per cent , and 22 per cent , of nickel with the following results , the densities being given without correction in relation to the density of water at the then temperature:\#151 ; Prof. F. Clowes .
An Apparatus for [ June 18 , Nickel , Nickel , 25 per cent. 22 per cent. Density .
Temp. Density .
Temp. After heating , non-magnetisable 8-15 15-1 8-13 16-5 After cooling , magnetisable 7-99 14-5 7-96 15-6 After heating again , non-magnetisable 8-15 18-0 8 12 18-2 After cooling again , magnetisable ... .
7-97 22-0 7-95 2T8 The rings were each time cooled to from \#151 ; 100 ' C. to \#151 ; 110 ' C. by carbonic acid and ether in vacuo .
IY .
i( An Apparatus for testing the Sensitiveness of Safety-lamps .
" By Frank Clowes , D.Sc .
, Loud , Professor of Chemistry , University College , Nottingham .
Communicated by Professor Armstrong , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1891 .
It is generally acknowledged that the Davy safety-lamp cannot with certainty detect less than 3 per cent , of firedamp in the air of the mine .
Gas-indicators of much greater sensitiveness have been invented ; amongt these the electrical apparatus of Living and the spirit safety-lamp of Pieler take first rank .
The objection to these special forms is , however , a serious one .
They do not serve for illuminating purposes , and therefore it becomes necessary to carry an ordinary safety-lamp , together with the testing apparatus .
Many attempts have been made to obviate this inconvenience by producing a safety-lamp which shall serve the double purpose of illumination and of detecting minute percentages of firedamp .
The discovery of such a lamp would be of great value to the miner , in view of the fact that very low percentages of firedamp have been proved to be dangerous in the presence of coal-dust .
The following apparatus has been devised to render easy the process of testing the sensitiveness of different forms of safety-lamps when used for detecting firedamp .
To enable satisfactory tests to be made in the laboratory , it was necessary to insure ( 1 ) the easy and rapid production of mixtures of firedamp and air in known proportions ; ( 2 ) to insure economy of the artificially prepared methane , which represented firedamp ; and ( 3 ) to examine the flame of the lamp under conditions as satisfactory as those existing in the mine .
A wooden cubical box of about 100 litres capacity was constructed so as to be as nearly gas-tight as possible .
It was then made absolutely gas-tight by painting it over with melted paraffin wax , which was afterwards caused to penetrate more perfectly by passing an ordinary hot flat-iron over the surface .
This testing chamber was furnished with a small inlet tube at tl e top , and with a similar outlet

