]\gt ; VIII .
Monoctinic Double Setenates of the Iron Group .
A. E. H. TUTTON , D.Sc .
, M.A. , F.R. February 2 , \mdash ; Read February 21 , 1918 .
THE investigation of the crystals of the four salts of the series , in which is ferrous iron , and is potassium , rubidium , caesium , and ammonium , has at last been successfully and completely accomplished , both morphologically and optically , and the results are presented in this communication .
The difficulties which have delayed it are described in a separate memoir , read at the same mqeting of the Royal Society and published in the ' Proceedingtogether with details of the manner in which these difficuIties have been overcome .
The main obstacles were ( 1 ) the difficulty of preparing ferrous selenate salt very much less stable than ferrous sulphate the ready oxidation of its solution in water and of the solutions of the double selenates obtained by the addition of the calculated quantity of the alkali selenate , and ( 3 ) the especial difficulty underlying the formation of potassium ferrous selenate , and the fact that even when formed the crystals of this salt decompose and become opaque like porcelain within a very few hours .
There is no record of rubidium or caesium ferrous selenates having ever been previously either prepared or investigated , crystallographically or physically .
Ammonium ferrous selenate was prepared by H. and its goniometry and a density determination were described by him in his 1870 dissertation ; its optics were ako to a very limited extent described by him-in conjunction with C. CHRISTIANSEN , in their well-known memoir of 1874 .
Potassium ferrous selenate offered such insuperable difficulties , however , that was only able to obtain four approximate measurements of exterior angles , and no attempt at a density determination made ; for , as he states in his 1870 dissertation , he found that the crystals which he obtained decomposed immediately after their removal from the mother liquor .
The salt was consequently never able to be handed over to Prof. CHRISTIANSEN for opbical investigation , and is entirely omitted from their joint 1874 msmoir .
' 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 94 , p. 362 ( 1918 ) .
'Krystallogr.-kem .
Unders .
over de selensure Salt , ' Copenhagen , 1870 .
'Ann .
Chim .
Phys series 5 , vol. 1 , p. 1 ( 1874 ) .
It is with great regret that the author learns of the death of Prof. CZRISTIANSBN on December 28 , 1917 .
VOL. CCXVIII .
[ Publiehed Jume 17 , It has been shown in the separate memoir on the chemistry of selenates that a successful and eady method of preparing ferrous selenate in which automatically preserves it in the ferrous condition by retarding o1idation atmospheric oxygen , is afforded by acting on pure sulphide in the oold with moderately dilute selenic acid .
The especial difficulty of obtaining potassium ferrous selenate from the filtered solution of ferrous selenate , after admixture with the equal molecular proportion of potassium selenate in fairly concentrated solution , has overcome by making the preparations in the coldest winter weather , the crystak successfully obtained having all been deposited during the four coldest nights of early January , 1918 , which were distinguished Dartmoor for their exceptionally low temperature .
The crystallisation occurred in a partial vacuum over oil of vitriol , under the receiver of an air pump .
The goniometry and optics were carried through on the succeeding day , immediately after removal from the mother liquor , in each the four or five hours of the transparent life of the crystals and in a very cold room without fire or other artificial heating .
Potassium Ferrous Selenate , .
The four crops of beautifully clear , transparent , pale green crystals obtained of this remarkable salt were produced during four very cold nights in the manner just described , and given in more detail in the ' Proceedings ' memoir on the chemistry of the group ( p. .
They were derived from three separate preparations , only one of which yielded a second crop on the next , also very cold , night .
The temperature of the laboratory on all four nights was only just a fraction of a degree above C. , there being from C. to C. of frost outside .
Further crops from these preparations , after filtering from oxidised ferric products , and all those derived from the numerous other preparations made in cold , but not such extremely cold , weather , nsisted only of very minute crystals , quite unsuitable for goniometrical examination , which corresponded with those which TOPSoslashE states are produced at ordinary temperaturee on moderately mild or warm days , and which he describes as having the compoeition and as being of probably triclinic symmetry .
According to the decomposition of the crystals of the hexahydrated due to their conversion into this dihydrated salt at a temperature but a above the freezing point of water .
Confirmatory evidence of this will be when the density is discussed , as the author found that ths densityriees and quite markedly during every half-hour of the life of the crystals tion once starts .
There is no doubt that this potassium salt of the reason that in the regular descent in stabihty , which general for all the groups of salts of this hexahydrated sulphates ) , from the oaesium salt through the MONOCLINrC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
limit of existence is actually attained in the iron group when the potassium salt is reached , at a temperature which is but very slightly above C. By intensive work on the four cold days succeeding the very cold nights in question\mdash ; commencing early in the morning , immedia.tely after removing the crystals from their mother liquor and drying them with a soft handkerchief\mdash ; and by keeping the room cold , it has been found possible to measure completely ( 1 ) the whole of the exterior angles of six crystals ; ( 2 ) to determine the density of a considerable number ; ( 3 ) to measure the extinction angles and ( 4 ) the optic axial angles , and ( 5 ) to determine all three refractive indices directly , for the usual range of the seven wavelengths of light employed by the author .
The only observations , of the author 's usual scheme of work , which have not been possible with this salt are those carried out at higher temperatures , which are obviously out of the question with a salt of such extreme instability at temperatures even somewhat lower than the ordinary .
At .
to C. decomposition is immediate , and even when working in an unpleasantly cold room the life of the crystals does not extend to a second day , even if they be covered by an inert liquid such as benzene , a device which , however , does somewhat prolong their existence , possibly by a couple of hours .
On the second day the crystak were as opaque as plaster of Paris .
One crystal employed , however , which was of tabular form and mounted between truly plane glass plates in a quickly drying medium of very hard Canada balsam dissolved in benzene , in a manner which entirely enveloped the crystal ( all the rest of the air film between the two glass plates being filled up by the balsam ) remained transparent for nearly a week .
Other attempts at such preservation have not , however , succeeded .
Thus 5 to 6 hours ' time was the usual limit for work on any crop of crystals .
To leave any particular crystal in the mother liquor until ready for work with it proved useless , for the edges became rounded as the temperature of the room inevitably rose slightly during the advance of the morning .
The actual temperature of the laboratory , however , never rose above C. during all the measurements and determinations , except during the density determinations , when absolutely ffesh crystals were employed , surrounded by the usual mixture of methylene iodide and benzene , which preserved them completely free from decomposition during the short time which the Retgers sion method demands .
This work now described would obviously have been quite impossible in summer .
The grinding of section-plates and prisms was avoided as far as possible , because ground surfaces become opaque from decomposition with great rapidity .
Special optical methods wex employed for most of the work , the crystals being immersed in an inert liquid , cedar oil , which most fortunately happens to possess almost the same refractive index as the mean index of the crystals , and likewise a very similar dispersion .
But the resuIts , although there could thus be no doubt of their accuracy , were confirmed on the last of the four days by the successful grinding of a sufficiently transparent -prism from one of the larger crystals obtained , so orientated as to afford direct values for the indices and , and by the accomplishment of the determination of these indices therewith before opaeity occurred within a further hour ) .
The values obtained from this ground to confirm fully the results previously obtained , and as the third ( intermdiate ) of refraction had been twice over absolutely directly by two natural employed , the whole of the optical constants were thus sscertained in a manner rendered them fully trustworthy .
Morphotogy .
Crystal System.\mdash ; Monoclinic .
Class No. 5 , holohedral-prismatic .
of Axes .
\mdash ; .
ToPsoslash]]i 's approximate values Axial Angle . .
Approximate value of TOPSoslashE , Forms Observed .
, and .
The forms and were not observed by TOPSoslashB .
.\mdash ; More or less tabular parallel to , fig. 1 , to short prismatic parallel to , occasionally with especial elongation of one parallel pair of the -pnsm faces only ( fig. 2 ) .
The great majority of the crystals obtained were of the tabular type illustrated in fig. 1 , and this type proved very useful in the optical work , as the bieectrix of the obtuse angle between the optic axes is nearly identical with the normal to the plate , which latter is parallel to the faces of the basal plane .
The type fig. 2 was represented by one of the finest and largest crystals obtained .
In crystals the -faces and -faces predominated , usually the former to the extent .
The -faces were , as with all the potassium salts of the series,.smalL -faces were generally rather large , and sometimes were very prominent indeed , which has been observed to be characteristic of the iron groups of both the sulphates and double selenates .
Three good measurements were -faces , of a narrow type but excellently reflecting .
The faoes of and were only very minute ( usually almost imperceptible lines ) , no adequate reflections of the signal .
Several little were and in two cases good measurements were obtained .
The table of angles is given on the satisfactory one , considering the be measured .
MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
INTERFACIAL Angles of Potassium Ferrous Selenate .
DR. A. H. TUTTON ON Tffl The forms given in the list other than and are the same as were observed by TOPSoslashE .
The only four angular measurements which he obtained were as foUows:\mdash ; and , all of which he states were only approximate , owing to the crystals becoming dull and decomposed immediately after removal from the mother liquor .
They differ considerably from the accurate values now obtained .
Cleavage.\mdash ; It was not possible to determine the cleavage with accuracy , on account of the rapid decomposition of cleaved surfaces , but it would appear that the usual cleavage parallel , developed throughout the series , is also shared by potassium ferrous selenate .
Volume .
Relative Density.\mdash ; The following results were obtained in six determinations by the Retgers immersion method .
The first four were with crystals belonging to one crop , and were carried out immediately after removal from the mother liquor and careful drying with a soft handkerchief ; the last two were carried out on another day , with another of the crops , the crystals used being also transferred directly from the mother liquor to the immersion liquid , after a few moments occupied in the drying with a handkerchief .
The results are seen to be eminently concordant .
A different room was employed for the work of making the liquid of exactly the same density as the crystal , the temperature of which was higher than that of the laboratory ; for it is inadvisable to work at a temperature much more than below C. ( the standard temperature of all the author 's density sons ) , on account of the large magnitude- of the correction for the coefficient of expansion of the crystals which is then involved .
The crystals were not at all adversely affected during the rapid work at the temperature of 13\mdash ; 15 , as they were immersed in the heavy protectiveliquid , being quite as transparent at the finish as when immersed , and ral of them were employed immediately afterwards in the goniometrical work .
IL , , , IIIIVI Density for Mean .
Mean .
As it is probable that the higher mean value for the second of the two different preparations is nearer the truth for cavity-free crystals , the value aooepted for is 2.494 .
Molecular Volume.\mdash ; Molecular Distance Ratios ( topic ratios : : : @085 : MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
In addition to the above determinations of density with clear , transparent , absolutely fresh crystafs , a number of further determinations were made with crystals in the act of decomposing , employing some that were only just showing the first signs when placed in the immersion liquid , and continuing with the same crystals , fresh determination of their density being made each half-hour .
The temperatures of the liquid only varied from to , and the results for of seven successive determinations at the half-hour intervals were , and .
It is thus obvious that the crystals became denser as decomposition proceeded .
This would appear to agree with the conclusion of TOPSoslashE that the monoclinic crystals of the hexahydrated salt which are only stable up to a temperature but slightly above C. , break down at ordinary temperatures into microscopic tric-linic crystals of the dihydrated salt , .
Optics .
The author 's usual procedure\mdash ; including the grinding of two section-plates parallel to the symmetry plane for extinction determinations of six section-plates ( three perpendicular to each of the two median lines ) for optic axial angle measurements , and of six -prisms for refractive index determinations\mdash ; was not possible with this unstable salt .
As already mentioned , only four crops of the crystals were obtained , and the life of any one crystal was not more than six hours , after which it had usually become hopelessly opaque from decomposition .
Hence , very rapid methods of work and avoidance of the grinding of many surfaces ( which become much more rapidly opaque than natural ones ) were essential , for the time lost in grinding a plate or prism , which when finished was useless , could much more profitably be spent in making conffimatory measurements with other natural crystals .
All the optical work , therefore , was carried out with three natural plates , tabular crystals parallel to the basal plane , two natural prisms formed by a pair of -faces ( inclined at ) and a pair of -faces ( inclined at and one ground prism of only , the latter from the largest of the crystals obtained and ground accurately to afford the and indices , the grinding of which was fortunately accomplished and the measurements obtained with it just before opacity supervened .
Each of the three crystal plates was mounted with hard balsam in benzene on a truly plane glass plate ( one of the circular ones a centimetre diameter provided with the cutting and grinding goniometer ) and covered with a small piece of thin cover glass , the aystal being completely protected by the balsam and its life thereby lengthened by an hour or two ( in one exceptional case longer ) .
Each crystal plate was rhombus-shaped ( see fig. 1 ) , the four -faces being the main rhombus-determining edge faces .
It was suspended by its circular glass mount-plate truly vertically from the adjusting apparatus of the polariscopical goniometer , so that the shorter diagona !
of the rhombus ( from front to back in fig. 1 ) , the trace of the symmetry plane , was horizontal ; it was also adjusted so that the centre of the rhombus-like -face was in the optical axis of the polariscope .
On raising into position the cell containing cedar oil , of similar refractive index ( for Na-light ) to the crystals , that the crystal occupied the centre of the cell , and goniometer circle ( with the crystal-carrying axis rigidly fixed to it ) first and then on the other , the optic axial interferenoe figure was seen , with the axes separated at their true obtuse angle , the more accurately true the nearly identical the refractive indices of the liquid and the crystal .
For the plam of the optic is the symmetry , which had been horizontally adjusted ; the second median line , the obtuse bisectrix and axis of the optical indicatrix as the sign of the double tion is positive , is very nearly.perpendicular to the basal plane , the plane of the crystal plate .
Three different constants were then determinable:\mdash ; ( l ) the exact position of the second median .
line with reference to the normal to the basal plane ; which is the same as the normal to the glass mount-plate , for the circle reading for this normal could be directly observed ; ( 2 ) the rue- acute optic axial angle , for this is supplement of the true obtuse angle directly measurable , and is .
indeed itself directly measurable by further rotation of the circle ; ( 3 ) the dispersion of the median lines .
The course of these operations was as follows .
The crystal plate was first adjusted so that the plane of the plate and of its mountplate was approximately truly vertical , parallel to the goniometer axis , and the ci-rde reading of the polariscopical goniometer was determined for the position when the plane of the plate was exactly normal to the axis of the polariscope , the crystal-holder and the steel axis carrying it and its adjustments being locked immovably to the circle axis .
This adjustment of the plate to normality was rendered readily possible by use of the Becker transparent mirror-and-lens fitting , described on-p .
S4 and illustrated in fig. 13 of the author 's " " Crystallography and .
Practical Crystal Measurement\ldquo ; ( Macmillan ) , the fitting being placed close up in front of the analysing Nicol of the polariscope .
This combination , of a glass plate transparent mirror arranged at and a lens fitted in an elbow side-tube , permitted the light from a goniometer electric lamp ( provided with a copper cylindrical shade perforated by a suitable circular and arranged to one side of the goniometer ) to be reflected along the axis of the tube of the polariscope to the glass mguntplate ( the crystal being beh.ind the plate during these operations ) , froen which reflected back again to the Becker fitting , and passed through the and the small observing aperture in the front of the fitting to the The images of the cross spider-lines of the analysing tube , a parallel lines and a single horizontal line , could be plainly seen with the aid It was possible to forecast with considerable acouraoy the general principles already established for the rolations of the be adequately certain as regards the lndQx , one oi MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
reflected ffom the mount-plate , and they were readily brought by slight rotation of the circle and plate to coincidence with the spider-lines seen directly , any slight vertical displacement being readily corrected with the aid of the appropriate ( back to front ) movable segment of the crystal-adjusting apparatus .
When the adjustment to coincidence was perfect the reading of the circle was taken , this reading then corresponding to the identity of the normal to the plate and to the crystal face with the axis of the polariscope .
The cell containing the immersion liquid , cedar oil , was then raised into position s that the crystal occupied its centre .
The crystal plate was next adjusted , by slight rotation in its own plane , using white light , so that the optic axial plane , the symmetry plane , was strictly horizontal if not already so adjusted .
This was effected by viewing and adjusting the interference figure in convergent polarised light ( the Nicols being crossed and ) ; the co1Tect position was attained when the optic axial " " eyes\ldquo ; ( the very small innermost rings and sharp vertices of the hyperbolic brushes ) to the right and left of the normal position , as the circle was rotated , first one way and then the other , moved exactly along the horizontal cross-spider-line , by which they were bisected .
The conditions were then attained for the measurement of the optic axial angle for the usual series of six of light , the crystal plate remaining locked to the circle throughout the measurements .
These measurements were then carried out with the aid of the spectroscopic monochromatic illuminator , the vertices of the optic " " eyes\ldquo ; being brought to the centre of the pair of vertical spider-lines for each wave-length in turn .
Not only were readings for each of the two " " eyes\ldquo ; to right and left of .
the normal taken , but also the readings for the other two optic " " eyes\ldquo ; observed on rotating through the whole circle .
By this means duplicate readings ls apart were obtained for both the obtuse and acute true optic axial angles and the plate being immersed in a liquid of similar index of refraction and consequently affording not merely an apparent angle in oil but the real optic axial angle within the crystal .
For as the plate was rotated through a complete circle four optic eyes were met with in succession , each at its correct position as within the crystal .
The mean ( half-way ) positions apart for any one colour of light were those of the two median lines , perpendicular to eaoh other , the axes and of the optical indicatrix .
The procedure will be rendered clear from the following record of the observations with Plate 1 ; fig. 3 will also assist in elucidating the arrangements , A representing the crystal and the glass mount-plate , VOL. .
$ Crystal Plate 1 , Parallel Circle reading for normal ( in fig. 8 ) to , determined by spider-lines with their own reflections 21 PLATE Arranged with Crystal Behind ( as in fig. S ) .
*The midway position between the observed left and right vertex readingu .
PLATE Arranged with Crystal in Front .
MONOCLINIC DOUBLE ATBs OF THE IRON GROUP .
The tremo roedinn for oed Li and greenish blue light , were repeated and confirmed several times , and the fact definitely established that the optic axis emerging to the ft of the normal to the plate was dispersed 7 ' ( within the error of experiment , which with the beautifully small innermost rings and very sharp hyperbolic vertices amounts to possibly 2 while the right-hand optic axis was dispersed double this amount , 15 ' .
That the extreme outside reading in each case ( the highest on the left and the lowest on the right ) was for red was clearly apparent , and was n\amp ; med by the colours bordering the ices when seen in white light , the inner margin of both being tinted red , and the left one more faintly than the right .
Hence , it can be acoepted with confidence that the second median line was dispersed to the extent of , that is 4 ' .
This is also clearly shown by the mean readings for the position of the second median line , given in the last column at the foot of the table , the difference between these mean readings for Li and light being 4 ' .
The 2 ' possible error in the readings of the positions for the right and left vertices for any one wave-length is eliminated in taking this mean value , and also the mean of the two separate sets of observations ( crystal behind and crystal in front of the mount plate ) , and , is also obviously 4 ' .
Hence , the amount of the dispersion of the median lines is undoubtedly 4 ' , with a possible error of only one minute on each side .
In mounting the crystal on the glass plate great care was taken to observe the orientation of the crystal , as regards particularly the direction of the little strip-face of replacing the edge , and that of the two faces of .
The former lay to the left and the larger of the two latter to the right , as shown in fig. 3 , when the crystal was behind the glass plate .
The edge-face is parallel to the vertical crystal axis , and this axis emerged to the left of the normal to , for the plane of the latter faoe is paralel to the inclined crystal axis , and the crystal axial angle .
Now the reading for the normal was ( see top of table ) , from the obsrvation taken before the plate was wetted with the immersion liquid ( cedar oil ) , and the readings for the second median line ( the half-way positions between those of the observed left and right optic eye vertices ) were shown to be according to the wave-length ( from Li to F ) .
These latter readings were also to the left of the normal .
Hence , the second median lin is inclined from the normal to -e ( 001 ) towards the left , that is , towards the vertical crystal axis , to an extent which increases regularly from for red Li light to for greenish blue hydrogen light .
Thus the second median line is nearer to the vertical axis by 4 ' for light than for light .
The mean , , is the inclination for yellow sodium light of the second median line to the normal to , and is the extinction angle which the author generally determines on the stauroscope , with a couple of section-plates parallel to the symmetry plane The first median line , the direction of the axis of the indicatrix , is , of course , always perpendicular to the second median line , which in this substance to the axis of the indicatrix .
The order of dispersion for the first median line is , therefore , that the latter nearer to the inclined axis by four minutes for red light than it is for greenish blue Flight .
The third axis of the indicatrix , the intermediate axis , is identical with the crystal axis , the symmetry axis of the monoclinic crystak , normal to the paper in fig. 8 .
These measurements with Plate , which have afforded an the data concerning the orientation of the axes of the optical indicatrix and of the optic axes , were mented by similar ones derived by the.use of two other tabular crystak parallel { Q01 } , Plates 2 and 3 .
The results as regards the dispersion of the median lines were identical in both cases with that derived from Plate 1 , namely , that the median line is nearer by 4 ' to the inclined axis for red light than it is for greenish blue light .
The Extinction Angles with the Normal to .
behind that normal towards the direction of the vertical axis , derived from Plates 2 and 8 , were from Plate 2 and from Plate 3 .
The two plates were not quite so perfectly developed as Plate 1 , as regards the planeness and perfection of surface of the two -faoes , Plate 1 having been a remarkably perfect crystal .
But the mean value of the extinction angle for sodium light for the Plates 2 and 3 is , only 4 ' remove ffom the excellent value derived from Plate 1 , which was for sodium light .
Hence the mean value of the results from all three plates , , may be taken with confidence as very near the truth , quite as near as is possible in the cases of the ordinary extinction angle determinations in sodium light with the stauroscope .
The final result for the orientation of the optical is therefore as follows .
The crystallographic axial angle being , the angle between the normal to the -face ( 001 ) and the vertical axis is .
The second lin ( axis of ellipsoid ) is inclined for sodium light from and in front of vertioal axis and behind the normal to .
The first median line ( axis ) lies above the inclined axis of the crystal and below the normal ) .
Both median lines thus lie in the obtuse crystal-axial angle be clear from fig. 3 .
The values for the optic axial angle derived from Plates 2 MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
The mean result for these two plates , the adjustments for which were not quite so perfect as for Plate 1 , on account of less true-planeness of the -faces , is so close to that for Plate 1 that the mean of the two results , given in next table , may confidently be accepted as very near the truth .
OPTIC Axial Angle of KFe Selenate .
If the reffactive index of the immersion liquid , cedar oil , were absolutely identical with the mean index of the crystals ( for sodium light ) , and the two dispersions were also identical , we could be content with the final value of given in the third column .
After the completion of the work on these unstable crystals , however , when time was no longer so important , the refractive index of the cedar oil employed was carefully determined , with the following result:\mdash ; REFRACTIVE Indices of Cedar Oil .
Li Na Tl Cd The index for Na-light is thus lower than the mean crystal index , but the dispersion between Li and -light is practically identical with that of the crystals .
Another liquid , monochlorbenzene , has the index for Na-light , higher than the mean crystal index .
But it has the disadvantage of dissolving the cementing balsam , which cedar oil does not .
The angle as observed in cedar oil would thus be slightly too large , while if observed in monochlorbenzene it would appear still more slightly too small .
It has been possible to calculate the exact amount of the desirable correction , from observations made in both liquids at leisure , with the permanent crystak of rubidium ferrous selenate , the mean refractive index of which is almost identical with that of potassium ferrous selenate .
The measurement of .
for Na-light was in cedar oil and in monochlorbenzene ; the true -value , as calculated from .
and in bromonaphthalene , was .
The angle in cedar was thus greater than chlorbenzene , and we can consider this result as also applicable to selenate , the conditions being so nearly alike .
The difference the two liquids is , and between those of cedar oil the selenate .
Hence , the correction , to be subtracted from the angle as observed in cedar oil in order to give the true angle within the crystal , is The values in the last column of the table have , therefore , been obtained by adding exactly one degree to those .
for in the third column , which corresponds to the subtraction of a degree from the observed values of in column 2 , as is the supplement of .
This final corrected value for is certainly very close to the truth , quite as close indeed as if the ordinary procedure of observing and in bromonaphthalene , with section-plates perpendicular to the first and second median lines respectively , had been employed .
For the true optic axial angles in rent crystals of the same substance frequently differ more than the few minutes of any possible error in these determinations .
In confirmation , however , the true angle may also be calculated , now that the exact refractive index of the immersion liquid is.known , with the aid of the intermediate refractive index of the crystals , from the observed value of the obtuse angle , considered as , by means of the well-known formula:\mdash ; Inserting the values for sodium light and making the calculation we .
have : .
sm from which and This result differs by only 2 ' from the corrected value given the last column of the table , thus affording a most satisfactory confirmation o.f the final of vaIues in the table .
Refractive Indices.\mdash ; A series of measurements of refractive index with a prism , affording directly the index had been carried out previous to the just described with the plates , in order to obtain the necessgry exact of the. .
refractive power of the crystals to enable a proper choice be ersion liquid of like but slightly higher than the MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
choice of cedar oil to be made .
The prism in question was one formed by two excellent faces of , the pair which form the acute angle , and the edge between which is often replaced .a strip-face of .
To preserve it fully transparent during the rather prolonged measurements with seven wave-lengtbs of light from the SpeCbroSCopiC monochromatic illuminator , the two -faces in question were covered with miniature glass plates cemented by quickly drying hard balsam in benzene .
The edge of such a prism is parallel to the vertical crystal axis , and is not very far from parallel to the second median line , the axis of the optical ellipsoid , light vibrating parallel to which affords the index of refraction .
The index corresponding to rays vibrating parallel to the prism edge would , herefore , have a value not far removed from .
The other direction of vibration of rays passing through the prism at minimum deviation was of the symmetry axis of the crystal , and as this is absolutely identical for all wave-lengths with the intermediate axis of the optical ellipsoid it furnishes the refractive index directly with absolute accuracy .
object of this set of measurements was thus to determine , the image of the slit corresponding to this index being that transmitted when the Nicol prism in front of the eyepiece of the goniometer-spectrometer was arranged at ; the image obtained when the Nicol was at corresponded to vibrations parallel to the prism edge and thus afforded value slightly higher than that of the minimum index A second natural prism was subsequently employed in a similar manner ; it was formed by two excellent faces of , those between which also comes the narrow line-face when developed .
The prism angle in this case is .
The edge of such a pris .
is parallel to the inclined crystal axis , and only removed from the axis of the ellipsoid , so that vibrations parallel to it ( those transmitted with the Nicol at ) afford almost exactly the indices .
The other rectangular vibration direction of the prism , like that of the first prism , was that of the symmetry crystal axis , so that this prism also afforded directly and accurately the intermediate refractive index , the image corresponding to it being that when the Nicol was at the position .
The two values of obtained from these two natural prisms , and their mean value , are as follows:\mdash ; The approximate values obtained for from the -faoed pnsm and for from the -faeed prism , were as under:\mdash ; As the direction for which this approximate value for was determined was only from the exact direction for the axis of the ellipsoid , it is probable that the above value for is practically correct .
The approximate value for was determined for a direction removed from the true direction for the ( minimum ) axis of the ellipsoid , and its value is therefore somewhat too high , probably by about to Finally , in the fourth and last crop of crystals obtained there was a crystal large and transparent enough to suggest an attempt at grinding a prism to afford and directly .
One was therefore ground in the correct orientation to afford these indices directly and absolutely .
The refracting edge was parallel to the second median line , ( the axis of the ellipsoid ) , so that vibrations affording the signal image when the Nicol was at corresponded to the index .
The two faces of the prism were symmetrical to ( inclined on each side of ) the symmetry plane , so that the other rectangular direction of vibration within that plane , corresponding to the image transmitted when the Nicol was at , was parallel to the axis of the ellipsoid and afforded the index .
By working very rapidly and keeping the crystal covered with the lubricating oil after its goniometrical adjustment to the correct desired orientation , and as soon as the grinding and polishing were completed covering the prepared surfaces with balsam-cemented glass plates , the prism was completed before any serious loss of transparency had occurred ; an hour was permitted for the drying of the hard balsam in benzene , and the transparency was then still such as enabled the refractive indices and to be determined for all wave-lengths from Li red as far as greenish blue of the spectrum , only the -images being too weak for accurate allocation to the cross .
The results are given below .
MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
It is obvious that .
, as expected , the approximate values for afforded by the -faced prism were the true values within the limits of experiment ; and that the approximate values derived from the -faced prism were slightly higher than the true It is thus now possible to give with all confidence the true values of and , all obtained directly .
They are as under , the -values for and being included from the evidence of their difference from the -values afforded by the approximate determinations with the natural prisms .
REFRACTIVE Indices of Potassium Ferrous Selenate .
Mean of , and for Na light Vibration direction parallel to second median line , 1 in front of axis , , , , , , , , symmetry axis , , , , , , , , first median line , above axis Double refraction , .0250 .
General formula for , for any wave-length , corrected to a vacuum ( correction :\mdash ; The indices are also reproduced if the constant be dimimished by and the indices if the constant is increased by Axial Ratios of Optiocel Ellipsoid.\mdash ; These values work out as under:\mdash ; Indicatrix . . . .
: Velocity ellipsoid a : : Molecular Optical Constants.\mdash ; The values of these constants , calculated by both the formulae of LORENZ and of GLADSTONE and DALE , are given in the next table .
Mean moleouhr refraction ( GLADSTONB ) , .
S7 .
VOL. OOXVIII.\mdash ; A. 8 I Rubiclium Ferrous Selenate , Morphology .
This substance has not been previously investigated , either goniometrically or optically .
It forms beautifully transparent and , considering its composition ( as containing ferrous iron ) , remarkably permanent crystals of a very pale bluish green colour .
Ten crystals were measured , selected from the three best crops of the several prepared .
The ferrous selenate employed in one case had been prepared by the action of selenic acid on iron wire .
An equivalent of pure rubidium selenate , prepared by the action of selenic acid on rubidium carbonate , was dissolved in only slightly more than the minimum amount of water required for solution at the ordinary temperature , and added to the cold solution of ferrous selenate immediately after the filtration from the precipitated selenium , in order to avoid the somewhat rapid decomposition ( oxidation ) which solutions of ferrous selenate suffer .
Crystallisation occurred under the receiver of an air pump , under reduced pressure .
Several crops of remarkably transparent and permanent crystals of rubidium ferrous selenate were also obtained by the method described in the introduction .
Crystal System.\mdash ; Monoclinic .
Class No. 5 , , holohedral-prismatic .
Ratios of Axes.\mdash ; : : Axial Angle .
Forms Observed .
, and Habit.\mdash ; Thick blocks , more or less tabular , parallel to .
A typical crystal is shown in fig. 4 .
The crystals exhibited the usual characteristic relative development of the faces of the basal..plane common to ffi the rubidium salts of the series , namely , the -faces predominated , but the -faces were also well developed as fairly broad bevellings .
The faces of the clinopinak.oid were also frequently quite large on this salt , forming ths two sides of the blocks .
The ends of the blocks .
were formed by the faces of the primary prism the orthopinakoid , which latter were often re-h very large , forming the two predominatin end planes .
Good little faces of the primary orthopinakoid were uaUy present , and indeed large crystak often showed the -faces quite nsiderably develop\amp ; There were also usually several faces of the hemipyramid preeent , but their reflections were poor .
Excellent , although narrow bees of the praem p also observed on two of the crystals measureA were also shown , but the reflections of the signal were faint for allocation to the spider-lines .
The faces of the forms and on the crystals of this salt were than usually affected by striation , and only two crops were obtained sufficiently from the defect for the purpose of the measurements .
Even the 10 apparently excellent crystals selected from these crops have afforded results which show in the cases of certain angles greater differences between the calculated and observed angles than usual , compared with the salts of the series previously measured .
The differences , however , are not sufficiently great to affect any of the conclusions drawn from the comparison of the results with those for the other members of the iron group of double selenates .
A table of angles is given on the previous page .
Cleavage.\mdash ; There is a good cleavage developed parallel to Relative Density.\mdash ; Six determinations by the immersion method gave the following results : I. Density for For II .
, , , , . .
III .
, , , , IV .
, , , , V. , , , , VI .
, , , , Mean .
The value accepted for is Molecular Vol. Molecular Distance Ratios ( topic axial : : Optics .
Nature and Orientation of the Optical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; The plane of the optic axes is the symmetry plane .
The double refraction is positive , the first median line corresponding to the refractive index and the second median line to Extinction determinations with two plates parallel to the symmetryplane gave the following positions for one of the extinction directions with respect to the normal to Extinction Direction in the Symnetry Plane .
Plate 1 , Plate 2 .
Mean with normal to MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
direotion is behind the normal , towards the vertical axis .
It is the secon median line and corresponds to the index .
As the angle between the normal to and the axis is ( the angle this second median line is inclined to ( in front of ) the axis .
The first median line is consequently inclined to ( above ) the axis , and lies below the normal to .
Both median lines are in the obtuse angle of the crystal axes .
The nditions are clearly shown in the diagram given in fig. 5 .
Optic Angle.\mdash ; Three pairs of section-plates were ground , perpendicular to the first and second median lines , and afforded the values for and recorded in the two following tables .
The angle in air is very large , and only Plates 1 and 3 of the three perpendicular to the first median line afforded it satisfactorily clearly .
Monobromonaphthalene was the immersion liquid employed for the measurements of and , for which very cIear and suitable interference figuxes were obtained .
DETERMINATION of True Optic Axial Angle in Bromonaphthalene of Dispersion of the Median This was determined by of the approximate true optic axial angle in cedar oil 15200 and monochlor\amp ; nzene , the refractive indices of which liquids are respectively just lower and just higher than the mean index of the crystals .
The dispersion proved to be very small , only 10 ' between red -light and green Tl-light , and is such that the first median line is nearer to the axis by 10 ' for red -light than for green Tl-light .
Effect of Temperature on the Optical Axial Angle .
the optic axial angle in air at C. showed that this angle increases almost two degrees for C. rise of temperature ( from to ) .
lndices.\mdash ; Six excellent -prisms were ground , principal plane of the optical ellipsoid and with the the axes , so as to afford directly two of the three indices .
for each index were faclorily concordant , and the mean next table .
MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
RBHBACTIVE Indices of Rubidium Ferrous Selenate .
Mean of , and for Na light Vibration direction parallel to second median line , 1 in front of axis , , , , , , , , symmetry axis , , , , , , , , first median line , above axis Double refraction .
General formula for , corrected to a vacuum:\mdash ; The indices are also very closely reproduced by the formula if the constant be diminished by , and the indices also if the constant be increased by 0128 .
Observations at indicated that the refractive indices are diminished by about for for , and for , by a rise of temperature of C. ( from to .
Ratios of the Optical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; The values for the optical indicatrix and optical velocity ellipsoid are respectively as follows:\mdash ; : : : : : Molecular Optical Constants.\mdash ; The values of these constants , calculated by both the formulae of LORENZ and of GLADSTONE DALE , are given in the next table .
Biean molecuhr ction ( GIADSTONB ) , 1l ) ll433 .
Coesium Selenate , Morphology .
The salt was prepared in the manner described in the introduction , the selenate being prepared by the action of selenic acid on ferrous sulphide , and the caesium selenate by the action of selenic acid on pure caesium carbonate .
Ten crystals were measured , selected from four different crops , all of which were composed of excellent transparent single crystals , sometimes grown to a considerable size , and of a pale ( almost colourless ) bluish green colour containing more yellow than the.crystals of rubidium ferrous selenate .
Crystal System.\mdash ; Monoclinic .
No. , holohedral-prismatic .
Ratios of Axes .
Axial Angle .
Forms Observed .
, and Habit.\mdash ; Prismatic parallel to the inclined axis A typical crystal is represented in fig. 6 .
The crystals were usually very definitely of this habit , which is distinguished -by narrow faces of and broad faces of , and which is very characteristic of the salts of the series .
In a few crops the -faces were somewhat broader , and almost conferred a tabular habit on the crystak As in several of the double sulphates containing iron , notably ammonium ferrous sulphate , the faces of the orthopinakoid were usually more prominent than those of the primary prism , and in many cases practicaIly formed the ends of the prisms , the -faces being very small .
The faces of the clinopinakoid and of the hemipyramid were only occasionaly present , and then were very subsidiary , although some good reflections were obtained from them .
Cleavage.\mdash ; There is an excellent cleavage parallel to Volume .
Relative Density.\mdash ; Four determinations by the method yielded the lOllowing values:\mdash ; I. Density for For ' II .
, , , , 3.0472 III .
, , , IV .
, , 30504 , Accepted value for , $ 048 . .
Molecular Volume.\mdash ; Distance Ratios ( topic axial ratios).\mdash ; : : Optics .
Nature and Orientation of Ellipsoid.\mdash ; The symmetry plane is the plane of the optic axes .
The double refraction is positive , so that the first median line corresponds to and he- second median line to .
Extinction determioations with two section-plates ground parallel to the symmetry plane afforded the following positions for one of the extinction directions which lies nearly normal to the basal plane Bxtinction Direction in tloe Symn.wtry Plane .
Plate 1 .
, Plate 2 .
Mean with normal to The direction is in front of the normal , further away than latter from the vertical axis ; it is the second median line and corresponds to the refractive As the angle between the normal to and the vertical axis is the angle between the vertical axis and the second median line is in front of the .
axis .
The first median line lies 5 ' 2 ' below the inclined axis , and thus lies in the acute crystallographic axnl angle , w.hle the obtuse angle between the crystal axes and lying in the conditions are graphically show1l in fig. 7 .
MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
Optic Axial Angle.\mdash ; Tkae pairs of section-plates were ground , 1 , 2 , and 3 perpendicular to the first median line and , and perpendicular to the second median line .
The optic axial angle in air is so large that it could not be measured , it being impossible to get the hyperbolic brush-vertices quite to the cross-wires before disappearance .
In monobromonaphthalene excellent measurements of with sections 1 , 2 , and 3 , and of with sections 1 , and were obtained , the central rings being small and the brush-vertices very sharp .
The values obtained , and those of the true optic axial angle calculated therefrom , together with the mean , are given in the next table .
DETEnMINATION of True Optic Axial Angle , in Bromonaphthalene , of Fe Selenate .
Dispersion of Lines.\mdash ; The mean refractive index of the crystals for sodium light will be shown to be 15357 .
Methylsalicylate has almost exactly the same refractive index for sodium light , , so that this substance was employed as the immersion liquid for the determination of the dispersion of the median lines , with the two best sections 1 and 3 perpendicular to the first median line .
The first median line proves to lie very slightly nearer to the inclined axis for greenish blue -light than for red , Li-light , the amount indicated by section 1 being , and that indicated by the measurements with section 3 being , the results thus in the mean ffording the amount 12 ' .
The mean values of the true optic axial angle , afforded by these observations in a liquid of so very nearly.the same were Li-light and for -light , direct confirm both the actual values given in the table for the true angle , by from and , and the order of the dispersion .
Refractive Indices.\mdash ; The refractive indices were determined with six about angle , ground so that the faces were symmetrical to the principal and the refracting edges parallel to axes of the optical ellipsoid , so that prism yielded two of the three refractive indices directly .
The results for the same index from the different prisms were all remarkably concordant , and the mean values are given in the next table .
REFRACTIVII Indices of Caesium Ferrous Selenate .
Mean of , and for Na light Vibration direction parallel to second median line , in front of axis , , , , , , , , symmetry axis , , , , , , , , first median line , below axis Double refraction , .
0108 .
General formula for the intermediate refractive index , corrected to a vacuum correction :\mdash ; The indices are also reproduced by the formula if the constant be diminished by , and the indices if the increased by Observations of refractive index at with one of the prisms indicated the usual slight diminution of refraction with rise of temperature , the amount indicated for C. of rise of temperature ( from to ) being about Axial Ratios of the Optical Etlipsoid.\mdash ; The values of these constants for types of ellipsoid are as under:\mdash ; 42S Molecular Offlied- Constants.\mdash ; These work out as under:\mdash ; Mean molecular refraction ( GLADSTONF .
) , Ammonium Ferrous Fe Morphology .
An investigation of ammonium ferrous selenate , as regards goniometry and specific gravity only , was caMied out by HALDOR TOPSoslashE* in the year 1870 , and as regards the optics of the crystals by TOPSoslashE and CHRISTIANSEN in 1874 .
The crystal , employed in the present investigation were prepared by the method described in the introduction , the ferrous selenate being prepared by the action of selenic acid on ferrous sulphide .
They were clear and transparent , and of a very pale yellowish green colour .
Ten excellent little crystals were measured , belonging to eight different crops .
Crystat System.\mdash ; Monoclinic .
Class No. 5 , hoIohedral-prismatic .
Ratios of Axes . .
Values of TOPSoslashE , Axial Angle . .
Value of TOPSoslashE , Forvns Observed .
, and .
The same forms , and these only , were observed by TOPSoslashE .
Habit.\mdash ; From somewhat tabular parallel to , to short prismatic parallel to and the vertical axis , and with more prominent than usual in the series .
A typical crystal of the first type is represented in fig. 8 , and one of the second type in flg .
9 .
* .
Unders . .
selens .
Salto , Dissertation , ' Copenhagen , 1870 .
' Ann. Chim .
' ( 1874 ) , series 5 , vol. 1 , p. 83 .
MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
the crystals were largely of the two principal.types just mentioned , and shown in the practically the types of crystals met with in this large series of double sulphates and double selenates were observed .
That is , crystak were found of the three main types ( and also of all intermediate varieties ) which have been shown in previous communications to be characteristic respectively of the potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts of the series ; namely , for the potassium salts prismatic parallel with large broad , and very small , for the caesium salts prismatic parallel with narrow , and for the rubidium salts the midway type with only moderately prominent faces and with faces relatively smaller than the immense ones of the caesium salts yet larger than the very small ones of the potassium salts .
One prominent characteristic was noticeable , however , on these crystak of ammonium ferrous selenate , namely , the very pronounced development of the orthopinakoid .
This form is characteristically well and often obtrusively developed in all the iron salts of this grand series , both those of the double sulphates and those of the double selenates , and is remarkably so in the common well-known salt ferrous ammonium sulphate , which ferrous ammonium eelenate closely resembles .
The reflections from the crystals measured were of general excellence , and relatively but little trouble was experienced from striation of the and -faces .
Certain crops rarely showed any traces of the faces of and , while on the crystals of other crops these faces were quite well developed .
Cleavage.\mdash ; A good cleavage was observed parallel to , the cleavage direction common to the whole series .
No trace could be discovered of cleavage parallel-to , which has been observed to be developed in some of the ammonium salts o$ the seriea Volume .
Rdative Density.\mdash ; Four determinations by the immersion method yielded the following values:\mdash ; I. Density for For .
, , , , .
, , , , IV .
, , , , Mean .
Accepted value for The value was obtained by TOPSoslashE .
Molecular Volume.\mdash ; Distance Ratios ( topio axial ratios : Optics .
Nature and Orientation of the Optical Bllipsoid.\mdash ; The symmetry plane .
The sign of the double refraction is positive , the median line corresponding to the refractive index , and the second median line Extinction determinations with two section-plates ground parallel to the symmetry plane afforded the following results with respect to the normal to Extinction Direction in the Symmetry Plane .
Plate 1 , Plate 2 .
Mean , behind the normal to This direction , between the normal to and the vertical axis , is the second median line .
As the angle between the normal to and the vertical axis is ( the acute axial angle being the inclination of the second median line to and in front of the vertical axis is .
The rectangular direction ( the other axis of the optical ellipsoid also lying in the symmetry plane ) ia the fioet median line , and is inclined to and above the inclined axis .
Both median lines thus lie in the obtuse axial angle , and the positions will be rendered clear by a reference to fig. 10 .
and ( loc. cit. ) give and for the two positions , axis : second median line , and axis : first line , Optic Axial Angle.\mdash ; Three pairs of section plates , grouffi to first and second median lines respectively , afforded the values given in the two following tables for the apparent optic axial angle in and obtuse optic axial angles in monokomonaphthakne ffl .
and .
The MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
true optic axial angle from these two latter determinations are given in penultimate lumn of the second table , and the mean in the last column .
APP .
ARENT Optic Axial Angle in Air , , of AmFe Selenate .
DETERMINATION of True Optic Axial Angle , in Bromonaphthalene , of AmFe Selenate .
The values obtained by and CHRISTIANSEIV were for and for of the Median \mdash ; This is very small , and was detercnined with section-plate No. 3 immersed in monoohlorbenzene , the refractive index of which VOL. OOXVIII .
( for Na-light ) is very close to the mean refractive index of the median lines are so dispersed in the symmetry plane that the first median nearer to the inclined crystal-axis by 9 ' for red Li-light than for green Cd-light .
Effect of Temperature on the Optic Axial Angle .
with section- plate No. 2 at C. showed that the apparent optic axial angle in air diminished by on heating the plate to , the angle being for Na-light at this temperature , whereas for it was Refractive Indices.\mdash ; Six -prisms were ground , the two faces of each being symmetrical to ( from ) a principal axial plane of the optical ellipsoid , and the refracting edge of each being parallel to a principal axis of the ellipsoid .
Each prism thus yielded directly two of the three refractive indices , and the combination of prisms was so arranged that , and were each obtained four times in all .
The four individual results for each index , for each of the seven wave.lengths employed , were remarkably close , and the final mean values the four are given in the next table .
REFRACTIVE Indioes of Ammonium Ferrous Selenate .
Mean of , and for Na light .
5292 .
Vibration direction parallel to second median line , in front of vertical axis , , , , , , , , symmetry axis , , , , , , , , first median line , above inclined axis Double refraction , Only the -indices were determined directly by TOPSoslashE and CHRISTIANSEN , for Na , and -light , the values obtained being respectively , and 15334 .
General formula for for light of any wave-length , corrected to a ( correction ) :\mdash ; The indices are equally well reproduced by the formula if the diminished by , and the indices if it be increased by Observations at C. indicated that the to this temperature , by MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
Axial Ratios of the \mdash ; The calculated values for the two types of elhpsoid are as under:\mdash ; Indicatrix : 1 : Optical Velocity EUipsoid a : : Molecular Optical Constants.\mdash ; These are given in the next table , calculated by both the formulas of LORENZ and of GLADSTONE and DALE .
Mean molecular refraction ( GLADSTONE ) , ll590 .
Comparison of Results .
The successful completion of the investigation of the potassium salt of this ferrous iron group enables a full comparison to be made of the crystals of all the four salts of this group , on exactly the same lines as the four salts of each of the three groups ( zinc , magnesium , and nickel ) of double selenates already described have been compared .
The fact that crystals of potassium ferrous selenate only form at temperatures very near to C. , and spontaneously decompose into an opaque porcelain-like substance , in less than half a day in moderately cold weather and almost immediately at the temperature of a warm day , together with the fact that the crystak of caesium ferrous selenate are magnificently transparent and relatively permanent , capable of preservation in closed vessels for years , afford striking proof of the progression in stability with the rise of atomic weight and atomic number of the alkali metal .
Habit.\mdash ; The progression in habit which has been observed in the other groups of both double selenates and double sulphates is very clearly exhibited by the ferrous iron group of double selenates .
An inspection of figs. 1 and 2 ( potassium salt ) , 4 ( rubidium salt ) , and 6 ( caesium salt ) will make clear the progressive diminution in the relative development of the faces of , and the relative growth of the faces of from very small and subordinate in the potassium salt to predominatingly large in the oaesium salt , through the intermediate stage of a moderate size in the rubidium salt .
The importance of the faces of similarly diminishes more or less regularly from the potassium to the caesium salt , through The ammonium salt , shown in figs. 8 and 9 , forms crystak of all typeeof but a great majority are of the intermediate type exhibited in fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 illustrates a crystal showing faces of and { Orl } very like thoee of a potassium salt of the series .
In all four salts of the iron group there is a marked tendency for a larger development of the faces than in the other groups of double selenates studied .
A similar fact was observed with respeot to the ferrous iron group of double sulphates .
Crystal Elements Angles.\mdash ; The axial angles and axial ratios are the following table .
COMPARISON of the Axial Angles and Axial Ratios .
The differences between the morphological axial angles of the three alkali motallio salts are between the potassium and rubid'ium salts , 1o 5 ' between the rubidium and caesium salts , and between the potassium and caesium salts .
Obviously , therefore , the axial angle increases in direct proportion to the increa , of theatomic weight and atomic number of the alkali metal .
As the values of the two latter constants will be constantly required in the course of these comparisons , they are given below for reference .
K. .
Rb . .
Os .
Atomic weights 46 47 Atomic numbers 19 18 37 18 55 As rubidium stands precisely half-way between potassium caesium as regards atomic weight and atomic number , so does the crystallographic angle stand half-way in the case of the bidium salt The axial angle of ammonium ferrous selenate is very nearly identioai wi than ) that of the caesium salt .
The morphological axial ratios of the rubffium salt are diite for the potassium and caesium salts .
Those of the ammonium 1$ : are of the rubidium salt , and This fact is in complete harmony with the ition o ammonium salt with the three alkali metallic .
of grQup .
ANGULAR Changes for Double Selenates containing Ferrous In 37 of the 38 angles compared the value for the rubidium salt is intermediate between the values for the ssium and caesium salts .
In the case of the single exception the change is very small .
The average and maximum changes of angle are exactly twice as large when potassium is replaced by caesium as when potassium is replaced by rubidium , corr6sponding precisely to the change in atomic weight and Rb or atomic number Cs and .
Thus the average change of angle , and also the maximum amount of angular alteration observed , are directly proportional to the change in the atomic weight or number .
As regards the position of the ammonium salt , in 35 of the 38 compared angles the changes for the by replacement are in the same direction as for the metallic replacements by Rb and by Cs , and the other three are cases where the changes are very minute .
In 34 of these 35 cases the changes for the by are greater than when potassium is replaced by rubidium , and in 15 of them the changes are somewhat greater than those which occur when potassium is repl by caesium .
When an the by changes are added together ( as regards amounts , ctive of sign ) , and the mean taken , in the same manner as was done for the metallic replaoements , this average change for the ammonium replacement of potassium is found to be practically identicai with the average change which occurs when potassium is replaced by caesium ; the maximum amount of change observed ( for by ) is also identical with that which occurs for the by Cs replacement .
Thus the angular effect of replacing potassium by ammonium is of the same order as that of the weightier metallic interchange , a fact in full keeping with the supposition of the isomorphism .
Volume Constants.\mdash ; The densities , molecular volumes and compared in the next table .
MONOCLINIC DOUBLE 8ELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
OLUNE Constants of the Iron Group of Double Selenates .
The density increases with the atomic weight of the alkali metal , and is greater by 6 to 5 for the by Rb replacement than for the Rb by Cs interchange .
The ammonium salt is the lightest member of the group , corresponding to the low molecular height of the- radicle The molecular volumes of the three alkali metallic salts progress at an accelerating rate with the rise in atomic weight or atomic number of the alkali metal .
When potassium is replaced by rubidium the increase is to the extent of units , but when rubidium is replaced by caesium the increase amounts to units .
The nge of caesium for potassium is accompanied by an increase of units .
The molecular volume of ammonium ferrous selenate is almost exactly identical with that of rubidium ferrous selenate , being unit higher , the replacement of potassium by ammonium being accompanied by an increase of exactly 10 units .
The topic axial ratios follow similar rules , being the directional expression of the volume along the directions of the crystallographic axes , and proportionately to the lengths of those axes .
The values of corresponding ratios are always intermediate in the case of the rubidium salt , between the values for the potassium and caesium salts ; a.regular extension of the edges of the unit cell of the structural space-lattice thus occurs as potassium is replaced by rubidium and the latter in.turn by caesium .
The lengths of the cell edges for the ammonium salt are almost the same as , very slightly greater than , those for rubidium ferrous selenate .
This striking fact of the congruency of the ammonium and rubidium salts\mdash ; which is in keeping with all the author 's previous results for the other groups of double selenates yet investigated , for the whole of the groups of double sulphates of this monoclinic series , and for the two rhombic groups of simple alkali sulphates and selenates\mdash ; affords yet another confirmation of those former results , and further substantiates the important conclusions which were drawn therefrom in a memoir* read to the Royal Society in November , 1916 .
Cleavage.\mdash ; AU four salts exhibit the development of cleavage parallel to the cleavage common to the whole series .
Some of the ammonium salts of the series * .
Soc. Proc , vol. 93 , p. ?
2 ( 1917 ) .
have in addition shown cleavage to the symmetry plane , , but this not been observed in the case of ammonium ferrous selenate .
Orientation of the Ellipsoid.\mdash ; The optical ellipsoid ( either the indicatrix or the optical velocity ellipsoid ) rotates on the symmetry axis of the crystal\mdash ; which is identical with the intermediate axis of the ellipsoid of the indicatrix or of the , velocity ellipsoid ) and is the only one of the three axes which is-\amp ; ed , in accordanoe with monoclinic symmetry\mdash ; when one of the alkali bases is replaced by another .
The beet mode of comparing its position is to state the inclination of the axis of the indicatrix or a axis of the velocity ellipsoid to the vertical crystal-axis ; as done in the next table .
Indinations of -Extinctions of the Fe Double Sdenates in front of Axis ( .
in all four salts .
) AmFe selenate RbFe selenate KFe , , CsFe , , The table is also expressed graphically in fig. 11 , which further shows the positions of the other perpendicular axis also lying in the symmetry plane , hich is that of the paper .
The axis is the second line ( obtuse angle ) in all four salts , the axis being the direction ( acute bisectrix of optic axial angle ) .
The of the ellipsoid is seen to be such that its ( only from ) the vertical axis in the case of the so that its axis is from axis for the potassium salt : is inclined for the rubidium salt , andstill ; to OF THE IRON GROUP .
435 of the ellipsoid for .
the rubi\amp ; um salt is thus intermediate between its for the potassium and caesium salts , and the amount of rotation is an ing one as the atomic weight and number of the alkali metal rises .
Aoeial Angles.\mdash ; These can be directly compared , as the double refraction is itive and the first median line is analogously disposed , subject to the rotation just descr , in all four salts .
The values are set out in the next table .
OPTIC Axial Angles of Iron Group of Double Selenates .
It will be apparent that the optic axial angle increases as the atomic weight number of the alkali metal rises , and the value for the rubidium salt is about midway between the values for the potassium and caesium salts .
The optic axial angle of ammonium ferrous selenate is slightly larger than that of rubidium ferrous selenate .
Refractive Indices.\mdash ; The refractive indices are compared in the table on next page , together with .
the mean refractive index for sodium light and the magnitude of the double re\amp ; action .
It will be observed that the mean refractive index for the rubidium salt is intermediate between the values for the potassium and caesium salts , although the advance of this specific refractive constant in the case of the rubidium salt is not 'much beyond that of the potassium salt .
The double refraction ( difference between and indices ) progressively diminishes ( with acceleration ) as the atomic weight and number of thealkali metal rises , and the result of this is curious on indices , these indices for the rubidium salt being brought lower than .
those for the potassium salt .
Although the increasingly progressive .
diminution of the double refraction tends also to reduce the indices of the caesium , the rapidly accelerating progressive growth of refraaeting power causes even these of the caesium salt , like the and indices , to show clear advance in the refractive indices of this salt .
The real progression in the refractive power is shown , however , by the molecular refraction , presently be dealt with .
indices of ammonium ferrous selenate are intermediate between those of ruffium and selenates .
VOL XVUI .
DR A. H. TUroN ON THE COmARISOX of the .
Refractive Indioea Double Refraction.\mdash ; This property has been shown to diminish at a accelerating with the rise of the atomic weight of the alkali metal .
The total diminution laetween potassium and caesium ferrous selenates is .
For the two analogous of the nickel group last studied* it was found to be ; while for the zinc and magnesium groups previously studied it was less and still less , and .
This smaller change in the double refraction in the two last-mentioned groups was only just adequate to reverse the progression of the indices in RbZn and RbMg selenates , these indices being lower than those of and KMg selenates by only .
AXIAL Ratios of the Optical Indicatrix .
KFe selenate RbFe , , , , CsFe , , * Phil. Trans , vol. MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
AXIAL Ratios of the Optical Velocity Ellipsoid .
: ' : : KFe selenate : RbFe , , , , CsFe , , . .
Axial Ratios of the Optical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; The values of these ratios are given in the two preceding tables .
Besides the ratios calculated with the value for each salt as unity , a second set is given ( as in the cases of the previous groups studied ) in which the value for the potassium salt is taken as unity for all the four salts of the group , thus enabling the progress of the axial directional change in the dimensions of the optical ellipsoid to be followed on the passage from one salt to another .
The left-hand series show a regular progression with the atomic weight and number of the alkali metal .
The right-hand series .
emphasise the accelerating nature of the change , modified by the effect of the diminution of double refraction in causing the set-back of the values , which is apparent in the case of rubidium ferrous selenate .
The position of the ammonium salt is sesn to be intermediate between the rubidium and caesium salts , as regards both series of ratios , which may be considered as yet another confirmation that ammonium ferrous sulphate is correctly regarded as truly isomorphous with potassium , rubidium , and caesium ferrous selenates .
Molecular .
Optical Constants.\mdash ; These constants are as valuable with regard to the optics of the group as were the molecular volumes and topic axial ratios in indicating the true relations of the , salts in regard to their morphology .
They are given in the next three tables .
The nclusions derivable from them are the following .
The whole of the molecular optical constants of the rubidium salt are intermediate between those of the potassium and caesium salts of the group .
The important molecular refraction , whether calculated by the formula of LORENZ or by that of GLADSTONE and DALE , increases with increase of atomic weight and atomic number of the interchangeable alkali metals , and at an accelerating rate , the replacements respectively of potassium by rubidium and rubidium by caesium being accompanied by increases in mean molecular refraction of and Gladstone units , which are in the proportion of 3 : 5 .
The result is unaffected by temperature change , as the effect of the latter is similar on both the density and refractive power , both diminishing on raising the temperature .
The molecular refraction of the ammonium salt is very close indeed to that of the rubidium salt , being very slightly higher to the extent of one Lorenz or two Gladstone units ; the mean molecular refraction by GLADSTONE'S formula is higher .
This result is analogous to that regarding the structural dimensions , the ammonium salt being shown to be practically isostructural with the rubidium salt .
NONOCLINIC DO[IBLE SELENATES OF THE IRON GROUP .
arrive at the effect of replac.ing sulphur by selenium , it is found that the selenate values are higher by ) t Lorenz units or to Gladstone umts .
As there are two atoms present of the sulphur or selenium , this affords as the increase per atom on replacing sulphur by selenium to Lorenz units or to Gladstone units .
The following , therefore , is the table for the effect of the replacement of sulphur by selenium in the monoclinic hexahydrated double salt series brought up to date as regards the groups of double selenates now completely investigated .
It will be remembered that the double sulphate series has been quite completed , as regards all the eight known groups .
INCREASE of Molecular Refraction on Replacing by Se .
The table also includes the effect of replacing sulphur in the simple alkali sulphates by selenium , and the result is seen to be almost ( and in the mean exactly ) identically the same .
The effect of replacing sulphur by selenium as regards molecular refraction , is thus found to be on the average or units , according as the formula of LORENZ or that of and DALE is employed .
Summary of Main Conclusions .
The outstanding result of this investigation of the iron group of double selenates of this grand series of isomorphous salts , is to add further evidence of the truth of the general law of progression of the crystallographic , structural , and optical properties with the atomic weight and atomic number of the interchangeable alkali metals ( represented by E ) potassium , rubidium , and caesium .
The change in the principal interfacial and axial angle , the monoclinic angle , the mean change of all the 38 different interfacial angles , and the maximum change of angle , when one alkali metal is replaced by another , are all directly proportional to the change in the weight or number , to a degree of precision which is .
The change in the dimensions of the structural unit cell of the space-lattice , as indicated by the molecular volumes and the topic axial ratios , and the corresponding optical change as indicated by the molecular refraction , are instances and expressions of the accelerating progressive effect of the increase of the atomic weight or number of the alkali metal .
440 DR. A. E. H. TUTTON ON bIONOCLINIC DOUBLE or , The mystery as to why this should be so , formerly surn)unding t derived from the three groups of .
double selenates and eight groups of previously described by the author , has now been completely lifted , as .
the addendum of February 7 , 1917 , to the allthor 's last comoeunicatio brilliant discovery of MosELEY , tha.t the atomic number is a constant governing the structure and complexity of .
the chemical atomic number is itself a measure of the positive charge on the atomic therefore correspondingly governs the numb of negative electrons it , it must of necessity follow that a family group of chemical elements so that of the monovalent alkali metals , each differing from the next by two whole rows ( series ) of elements in the periodic classification , must bring about by their successive replacement of each other a progressive change , corresponding to the increased atomic complexity , in the properties of the crystals of the salts in which they replace one another as dominating elements .
As the atomic weight varies similarly to .
the atomic number , the differences between potassium an .
rubidium on the one hand and rubidium and caesium on , the other being similarly related ( equal ) with respect to both constants , the law of progression may be stated with respect to either constant with like validity .
To state it with respect to the atomic numRr is the better and more logical way , however , as the reason the law is then at once apparent .
One other important result is the further confirmation afforded , by the results for this iron group of double selenates , of the .isostructural relationship of the ammonium and rubidium salts of any group of the series .
The interesting application of this conclusion as a test for the Pope-Barlow theory of valency volume to which special referenoe was made in a former communication , is still further justified by the results now presented , which are clearly incompatible with that theory .
In concluding this description of the ferrous double ' selenates satisfaction may , perhaps , be legitimately expressed that it has , after attempts lasting over several years , been at last found possible to isolate and investigate completely rystak so difficult to prepare , and so extremely fugitive prepared , as those of ferrous selenate .

