An account of a Salt Spring , and another Medicinal Spring , on the banks of the River Wear , or Ware in the Bishopric of Durham in a Letter to the Publisher , from the ingenious Mr. Hugh Todd Fellow of University College in Oxon , and Chaplain to the right Reverend Father in God -----Lord Bishop of Carlile .
SIR I am so much obliged to you for your many Favours when I was with you ; that now , when I am at so great a distance from Oxon , I cannot pass by any opportunity of serving you , in visiting the Curiosities of Art or Nature ( with which the Northern parts Durham , and Cumber land especially , do abound ) and in giving you an account of what , I judge , may be worth your knowledge .
When I was at Durham I was informed of an extraordinary Salt-Spring , and another Mineral-Spring , about a mile , or a mile and half out of Town .
Upon the first leisure time that I had , I went to see them ; as I found , some of the Lawyers that came the Circuit , and many other Gentlemen had done .
The Salt-Spring , lies , as I said , about a mile and half out of Town , on the North-East side , at a place called Salt-water haugh near Butterby .
It rises in the middle of the River Wear or Ware ; and is good to be seen , and tasted , only in the Summer time , when the water is discharged all , on one side of the Channel : for in Winter , when the River is high it looses its Salts , in the fresh streams , so that they are not perceivable .
The water does not rise at one or two or three places , but seems to bubble up equally in all parts in the Channel , for the space of 40 yards in length , and about 10 in breadth : for , wherever , in that Spot , you remove the stones and sand , you shall perceive the water , presently arise and spring up .
That , which I admired most , is , that the ~ of all the Springs , issues out of the middle of a Rock .
I supposed that the brinyness of its waters might be caused by the heat of the Sun , continually beating upon them , as they lay upon the Rock ; the surface of which was manifestly saltish ; and which , in a hot day ( as I was told ) would be all covered over with a perfect Salt .
But I was undeceived in this conjecture , by having all the water laved out of the place , where it seemed to stagnate : for immediately , out of the body of the Rock there bubbled up water , as salt as the former .
As to the degree of its saltness , it was as high , as any brine can be , and tho but little in quantity in comparison of the fresh River , yet of that force as to give a brackishness to the streams , a 100 yards below .
Those that have boiled this Brine , ( I had not time to try the experiment my self , ) say that it affords a great quantity of Bay Salt , not so palatable , yet as useful as ordinary Salt is .
It tinges all the stones with a Red colour .
The original of this Spring , cannot be fetch d any farther off , then the Rock , out of which it issues ; for the Sea , which is the great Treasure of Salt-water is at too great a distance , to dispense any streams to this Place : being 8 miles off , where nearest .
On the other side of the River , there is lately discovered a Medicinal Spring , which is , this year much frequented , and may be of great benefit to the Country .
It was found out , by workmen that dug in that place for Coal .
When they were 12 fathom and a half deep , they discovered this Treasure of Natural Physic ; which may be as good to the people , as what they sought for ; tho Coal , be a Commodity very necessary and beneficial to these Parts .
The workmen thus failing of their Expectation , tried the Rock about a 100 yards off : where they lost themselves , much about the same depth ; and instead of Coal , discovered a Spring of excellent clear Water , which issues out at the Hole , which their Instruments made .
I tell you this , that you may confirm your observations , of the many different apartments there are in the Earth ; and with what different Treasure they are furnished .
I can say no more ; I will only promise what I will say another time ; and send the first opportunity .
I will give you an account of a Runick Inscription , ( mentioned but not understood by Mr. Camden , ) on the Font in Bridekirk in Cumberland .
I shall tell you something too , of two very Ancient Monuments something of the form of , Stonehenge , but they seem far more ancient .
And shall as I am able , give you Excripts of many Roman Inscriptions , which abound in this Country .
In point of obligation and gratitude ; I will send you some Roman Urns , which I had at Durham .
A piece of the Salt Rock , where the Spring issued out , which is of a sparkling substance .
And if you will be at the Cost of Carriage , I will endeavour to send the Stones that have the Inscriptions on them .
Where I can have them , I shall not omit any Opportunity to serve you , and the Society .
Pray let me have what Queries you think fit to be satisfied in ; and some Rules to direct my Disquisitions , by the first Opportunity : that when I visit all the Parts of this Country , which will be shortly , I may be the abler to serve you .
I have made enquiry , as to the Longevity of those that live in Mountanous Parts : and find , by Relation , that they out-live any that I have heard off in the South : but , that I am so unhappy , as not to be able to make any perfect account , about that Affair .
The next Spring Visitation will give me opportunity to consult the Registres and Church-Books ; and so make me abler to give an exact , credible Relation , which I shall be sure to doe .
As I Travelled over Stanemoore in Yorkshire , I observed the River Greatah , ( a River about half as big as Charwell at Oxford ) run under ground for about a Mile , so that we passed over it , dry-foot .
The passage under ground is but narrow ; so that in winter when the streams are high , it keeps the Channel above ground .
SIR , I am Your most Obliged Friend and Humble Servant HUGH TODD .

