XIX .
On expectorated Matter..By George Pearson , M. D. F.R. S. Read June 15 , 18o09 Th E attention of physiologists has been very much withdrawn , for the last half century , from the consideration of the different states of the circulating and secreted fluids , in consequence of the opinion that the nervous and fibrous or muscular systems can afford satisfactory interpretations of the phenomena of living beings ; and on account of the disgust produced by the visionary properties and groundless hypotheses , originating in the humoural doctrines of GALEN .
But late experiments have manifested , that various things taken into the stomach can be made at pleasure to produce considerable effects , by impregnating sensibly the blood and urine , as well as the milk , sweat , and perhaps saliva .
Further ; the fine experiments of Professor COLMAN have shown , that the contagious glanders may be excited in the ass by the transfusion of the blood of a glandered horse , and the matter from the nose of the glandered ass can produce this disease in the horse or the ass.* Hence I apprehend it is reasonable to expect , that the farther investigation of the properties of the animal fluids will afford gratifying instruction to the Researcher in Mr. CO LMA N alleges , that there is not a sufficient quantity of blood , in a single glandered ass , to excite the glanders by the transfusion of blood into the horsenatural science , and important practical information to the Physician .
On the present occasion , I desire the honour of communicating the krowledge I may have acquired , by investigating the properties of expectorated matter secreted by the bronchial membrane .
The appearances of this substance serve to regulate the judgment of the Physician cocening several diseases of the lungs ; but especially of that of pulmonary tubercles which yearly destroys C o , ooo to 140,000 subjects of the United Kingdom .
It is fit that I remark , that I do not notice in this paper the ingenious experiments of several learled Chemists , because by so doing I should be led into a detail of too great extent for my design .
The numerous varieties of expectorated matter , according to my observation , may be arranged and characterized under the following seven heads : I. The jelly-like semi-transparent kind of a bluish hue , excreted in the healthy state .
II .
TIhe thil mucilage-like transparent matter , so copiously expectorated in bronchial catarrhs .
il .
The thick opaque straw coloured , or white and very tenacious matter , coughed up in a great variety of bronchial and pulmonary affections ; especially in that of tubercies .
IV .
Puriform matter secreted without any division of continuity , or breach of surface of the bronchial membrane , very commonly occurring in pulmonary consumptions .
V. The matter which consists of opaque viscid masses , together with transparent fluid ; or the second sort above stated , with nodules of the third or fourth kind .
314 VI .
Pus from the vomicm of tubercles .
VII .
Pus from vomica by simple inflammation of the lungs , and without tubercles .
O1ther kinds of matter are occasionally coughed up , such as calculi , --masses of self-coagulated lymph-serous fluid-blood itself , and perhaps the vascular substance of the lungs ; but I do not write on these matters- , because they either do not belong to any particular recognized disease ; or they are rare occurrences in some well known disease , and are too obvious to require description . ?
[ , Sensible , or obvious Properties .
The jelly-like matter , as already said , is excreted in the best health , as wTell as sometimes in disease .
It is mostly coughed , or hawked up , in a morning soon after a night 's repose , during which it seems to accumulate .
A few masses , or nodules , then appear of the consistence of jelly , and of the size of a pea to a hazle nut .
It is also at any time liable to be excreted , in consequence of various extraneous matters irritating thei fauces , to the amount of a few nodules .
IL is of a gra-vish colour or inclining to blue , with black specks ; and it is rarely whitish in nodules .
The consistence is that of jelly , but of much greater tenacity .
it has a barely perceivable taste of common salt , or nluriate of soda .
It commonly floats on water , but by agi+ation to desengage air bubbles , it sinks .
It has no smell .
To the naked eye , or assisted by a single magnifier , this natter seldom appears uniform , but consistsof a mixture of opaque and transparent masses of irregular figures .
WVith the comp ound -microscope , spherical 315 particles were perceived , though few in number , when duly diluted .
The presence of an alkali I could in no instance perceive , by means of the usual tests , namely , turmeric paper , litmus paper slightly reddened by vinegar , and cloth stained with violet juice ; nor was an acid denoted by means of litmus paper , except when I had reason to believe it was derived from various acid substances taken with the food , or drink , adhering to the inside of the mouth and fauces .
% .
The mucilage-like expectorated matter , according to my observation , occurs much less frequently than the other sorts .
It appears suddenly in great abundance in certain bronchial catarrhs .
I have seen it to the amount of two , or three pints in twenty-four hours .
It is also secreted , but less copiously in paroxysms of spasmodic asthma , and of the hooping cough ; and but rarely in pneumonic , or pleuritic inflammations , and in some chronical organic diseases of the heart and lungs .
This matter is a transparent uniform fluid of the consistence of white of egg ; or of a mucilage compounded of about one part of Arabic gum , and four or five parts of water .
It is colourless , has a fleshy smell has a brackish taste .
After standing eight or ten hours , a deposit takes place of fibrous , leaf-like , or curdy masses , some of which are seen suspended in the clear fluid .
In some cases nodules of opaque thick ropy matter , at certain times , accompany this mucilage-like matter .
Under the simple magnifier I perceived irregular figured masses partly in motion atd partly suspe nded .
With the microscope , globules were seen ; but larger considerably than those of the blood , and miuci less numerous .
With the usual tests there were no indications of alali , nor of acid provided the matter was unmnixed with other things .
It usually floated , or was suspended in water , when first expectorated ; but on standing in the water it fell to the bottom , evidently owing to the disengagement of air bubbles .
By standing exposed to the air in warm weather , , it sooner grew foetid than pus of abscesses ; without becoming opaque .
Neither could I render it opaque or thicker , by exposure to a stream of oxygen gas for an hour ; or by exposure of it in a jar of this gas for a month .
3 .
The opaqte ropy matter above-mentioned .
ist .
It is secreted most copiously in that very common , and extensively epidemial disease of our climate , the winter-cough , occasioned by tubercles , to the amount of half a pint to a pint in twenty-four hours ; especially during the winter season for several successive years , and sometimes during the whole of a long life , after the age of forty or fifty years .
sdly .
It is often the expectorated matter of the pulmonary consumption of young persons , also occasioned by tubercles , but frequently mistaken for the pus of abscesses or vomicae .
3dly .
It appears , oftentimes , in pneumonic or bronchial inflammation with fever , seemingly being a beneficial discharge ; as well as in some instances .
at the close of a fever without conco.* mitant inflanmmation of the lungs .
4thly .
A severe paroxyspn of spasmodic asthma is often terminated in the excretion of this ki nd of matter .
5thiy .
A secreted substance of this sort is sometimes expectorated in various chronical organic diseases of the lungs , the heart , aorta , and parts contiguous to the lungs , which occasion difficult transmission of blood through them .
In all these instances the matLer by expectoration is of the consistence of thick cream , or of thin toasted cheese ; so tough as to hang in the form of a rope , four or five inches in length , on pouring it from one vessel into another .
Its aggregation is such that it is readily detached in arge masses from the vitreous surface of vessels .
It is not tinusual for small black , or reddish spots , and streaks , to appear on the urface of this sort of expectorated substance .
A pretty large bulk of it is seldom throu , rhout uniform ; but it is frothy , and exhibits opaque masses of various hues with transparent matter interposed .
The colour is yellowish , straw-coloured , and white , or gray : it also , thougi seldom , is greenish and bluish .
The taste asserted by patients is , in their own terms , various , namely , saltsh , nasty , faintish , sweetish , luscious , or like that of a sweet oyster , --a sharp or sour taste is the most rare .
The only smell which I have perceived is that of flesh , but very frequently there is none .
When any offensive or pungent smell was perceived , immediately after expectoration , I have always found that it was owing either to the foulness of the vessel in which it was received ; or it was from extraneous matters in the mouth , and from decayed teeth .
This opaque viscid substance , being duly diluted with distilled water was examined with microscopes of common , as well as of very great powers : by means of any of them crowds of spherical particles were seen passing to and fro , in currents , not unlike those of the blood ; except that they were larger .
These globules I could not destroy , nor alter in form , by trituration ; nor by long boiling in water ; nor by exsiccation , and again dissolving in water ; nor even by coagulation with mineral and vegetable acids , with alcohol , with sulphuric ether , or with tannin , and alum ; nor by mixture with caustic 3I8 alkalies in a proportion which leaves the liquor turbid ; nor for some time after the putrefactive process had appeared .
But these globules disappear with such a proportion of sul- , phuric acid as detaches charcoal ; or of nitric acid , and of liquid potash , as produce a clear solution : also by charring by fire .
It is perhaps superfluous to remark , that these atomic globules are quite different from the air bubbles usually entangled in this kind of matter , as perceived by the microscope ; the latter differ much from the former , in being of far greater magnitude-in being less numerous-in being transparent , and disappearing on agitation , or heating the matter , or even by mere standing .
For the most part this expectorated substance swims on water ; but by agitation or stirring to disengage air bubbles , or by merely standing , it sinks .
Some of the lumps suddenly hawked up , immediately fall to the bottom of a vessel of water .
No signs of either acid , or alkali , appeared on the trials of this matter with .
well known reagents , provided it was free from extraneous matter ; but it was apt to betray acidity from things taken with the food or drink .
4 , .
Purzf matter .
I have seen this matter expectorated ir several diseases in the quantity of two or three ounces to half a pint in twenty-four hours , on some rare occasions , without any breach of surface .
I believe it would be considered by every one to be pus , having the properties commonly admitted to be those of this substance .
It will however , perhaps , only be just to call it puform , for the present , as it appears to me probable , that I shall hereafter be able to show that it possesses properties not belonging to pus of abscesses , although in the obvious , or sensible properties , it is imilar to Tts such pus .
Accordingly this expectorated matter is not only opaque , white , or yellowish , and as thick as the richest cream , but it also has not more tenacity than cream .
It is not apt to entangle air , and therefore it immediately mingles with water , rendering it milky ; and presently subsides to the bottom , leaving the water clear , or at least whey-coloured .
It appears to the naked eye uniform in its texture ; and nearly so under the simple lens : but under the microscope thousands of globules similar to those of the blood are seen , which are inde~ structible as those above related belonging to another kind of expectorated matter .
The substance , of which I am now speaking , is most frequently excreted in the latter stages of pulmonary phthisis , for many weeks successively .
It is taken for granted that this matter is from a breach of surface or ulceration ; but on examination after death , such a state was not found , in many instances , under my observation , although the lungs were as usual full of tubercles and vomice .
This puriform matter is occasionally expectorated in certain other diseases .
The last summer my colleague , Dr. NEVINSON , furnished me with several ounces of this sort of substance , but of a greenish hue , and of the consistence of thin cream ; which was expectorated by a woman in the third week from the attack of the measles .
In a few days she died .
On examination of the lungs very carefully , by the excellent house surgeon of St. George 's hospital , Mr. DAwEs , no ulceration could be discovered in the trachea or in the bronchial tubes ; nor were any tubercles , or abscesses found in the lungs .
The patient , according to my information , had expectorated more than a pint of this flud every twenty-four hours for a week before death , In another hospital case , a man laboured under a cough with spitting of matter , which all who saw it called pus , and as usual it was considered to arise from an ulceration , or suppurated tubercles ; but , on examination after death , the disease was ascertainel to be condensation of the lungs , to the consistence of liver , with water in the cavities of the chest , and nothing more .
5 .
)paque viscid matter of the third , and perhaps fourth sort , above distinguished , appearing in nodules , and irregular figured masses , mixed with transparent slimy matter of the second sort .
It is not unusual to see the mixture of these two different kinds , from severe fits of coughing in that constant epidemy of the British islands , the winter chronical pneumonia .
Different parts of the bronchial membrane being in different states , may account for the secretion of the two different matters .
This seems more probable , than that these different matters should be secreted from the same part ; although it is true that the same part does secrete at one period transparent thin slime , and at another an opaque thick matter .
The former is occasioned by great irritation of the membrane , and the latter is the effect of a more gradual secretion with .
much less irritation .
For the sake of brevity , I avoid a further description .
The practical application of these observations , however important , would not be suitable in this place .
The sixth and seventh kinds of expectorated substances being secreted after a quite different manner , and being very different in their nature from the preceding five kinds , I shall not give an account of them in this paper .
3"1t II .
Agency chiefy of Caloric .
i. No effect of importance is produced by this agent , until the temperature of the expectorated matters is raised to about 5o ?
of FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer : then the state of aggregation is evidently altered , the viscidity of each of them being diminished .
At about 155 ?
, coagulation begins to be quite evident in t-h first , third , fourth , and fifth kinds of matter-that is , curdy masses of various magnitudes appear in a milklike , or whitish liquid .
On elevating the temperature to 16o0 or 17o ?
, a large proportion of curd is formed ; but the proportion of the curdy matter to the liquid is very different in different specimens , The viscid texture , or tenacity of the expectorated matters , is by this treatment destroyed .
The milky liquid decanted , after standing ten or twelve hours , affords , on evaporation to dryness , about three to four grains of residue from each ioo grains .
This liquid passes very slowly through the paper filter .
The filtrated liquor affords scarcely more than one per cent. on evaporation to dryness .
By repeatedly boiling in successive portions of water , the whole , as far as I could judge , of a given quantity of the curd might be diffused to form a whitish liquid ; which on evaporation to dryness appeared to afford a residue of the same kind ( except in containing a smaller proportion of saline substances ) , as the milky liquid which was separated from the curd on the coagulation of the expectorated matter .
The second kind , called mucilage-like transparent matter , does not afford curdy masses at the temperatures abovementioned ; but its viscid texture is destroyed , and it becomes a whey-like , or somewhat milky liquid ; and , on examination 3,9 !
2Q with a magnifying glass , it appears full of curdy particles .
After this agency of caloric , the expectorated matter is much less prone to putrefaction .
e. Distillation of the expectorated matters to dryness afforded a perfectly limp ; d water , which had a peculiar smell , bu tt no impregrnation with ammonia ; nor with any other substance which could be detected , except a little carbonic acid .
The residuary matter in a brittle state of dryness , afforded by evaporation , varied between two and a half and ten per cent. of the expectorated substances .
The second kind yielded one thirty-fifth to one forty-fifth of its weight of brittle residue .
The first kind afforded one twentieth to one twenty-fifth of residue .
The third kind afforded very different proportions of solid residue , according to its consistence , viz. one tenth to one eighteenth of its weight .
The fourth kind gave one twelfth to one fourteenth of brittle matter .
The fifth kind yielded very different proportions of residue , according to the very different proportions of transparent and opaque matter , of which it consisted-it varied between one eighteenth and one thirtieth .
3 .
All these exsiccated substances on exposure to air , grew more or less moist , or at least were no longer brittle ; but became somewhat soft , and , proportionately to the state of moisture , were augmented in weight .
The thinner the expectorated matters , the moister and the greater increase of weight they generally experienced .
But parcels of the same consistence from different patients sometimnes diifered much in degree of moisture , on exposure to the air .
I have found some parcels of the second and fifth sorts of expectorated substances grow quite moist , and receive an increase in weight of three per cent. If the residues were kept in close vessels , they remained in a brittle state .
Larger parcels of exsiccated matter become more moist thai smaller ones of the same kind in the same circumstances .
4 .
TIhe milky and curdy liquids , which separated from the curdy masses ( 1 ) being poured off ; and also the curdy masses being by pressure rendered dry ; the liquids were evaporated to dryness , but became moist on exposure to the air .
The curdy masses were by evaporation rendered brittle , and remainec so in the air .
The residues of the evaporated liquids were said to taste extremely salt , and the exsiccated curdy matter was tasteless .
5 .
The milky liquids ( 4 ) concentrated by evaporation , did not indicate any disengaged acid , nor alkali to the usual re-agents -By triturating these liquids with lime , a little ammonia was discharged-by trituration with concentrated sulphuric acid , the muriatic acid was disengaged-with phosphoric acid , and also with tartaric acid on trituration and heating , a pungent smell was perceived , somewhat like that of the acetous acid.-On burning to a brown ash the saline residue afforded by evaporation of these liquids , the predominating taste of it was that of muriate of soda .
This ash readily melted , being moistened , it turned turmeric paper to a reddish brown colour , and changed turnsole paper , reddened by acetous acid , to a deep blue-on exposure to the air , it partially deliquesced the dissolution , by boiling in distilled water , afforded supertartrate of potash on the addition of the tartaric acid ; and a red precipitate was occasioned by nitro-muriate of platina.* This incinerated and fused saline residue by other t'ials , was proved to contain phosphoric acid , and lime ; with traces of sulphuric acid , magnesia , iron , and perhaps silica ; but the chief ingredients were muriate of soda , and potash .
6 .
The curdy matter after expression ( 4 ) afforded a much smaller proportion of brown ash than the fusible saline residue ( 5 ) .
It required an intense fire for fusion in a platina crucible .
Thef fused mass did not deliquesce , but it grew somewhat moist on exposure to the air .
It contained a much smaller proportion of potash than the former fused matter ( 5 ) ; also much less of muriate of soda , but a far larger proportion of lime and phosphoric acid with traces of sulphuric acid , magnesia , oxide of iron , and perhaps silica .
7 .
( a ) 5150o grains of the third sort of expectorated matter on exsiccation , afforded 96o grains , that is , one sixteenth of brittle substance , or about six per cent. , and of course this kind of matter contained about ninety-four per cent. of water ( ?
II .
2 ) .
This dried matter was reduced to a charred state by exposing it to fire in a WEDGWOOD white crucible .
In this process it inflamed , emitted the usual smell of burning animal matter , especially of bone , and swelled prodigiously ; at the same time a black oil was compounded rendering the mass soft during the inflammation .
I could not distinguish the smell of sulphur , but there was , in one part of the burning , a smell , to my sense , of phosphorus .
( b ) .
This charred natter was kept in a state of ignition in a platina crucible , till it no longer remained in a powdery form , but wa : Vreduced to a comparatively small bulk of a substance of the consistence of paste in an intense fire .
By continuino .
the fire , the charge at length was fused ; and after bei ng kept in a state of fusion to be quite fluid for ten minutes , the fire being withdrawn , a white , brittle , apparently saline matter , like melted common salt , was easily detached from the platina crucible , which in some places had received a red tinge .
( c ) .
The melted matter ( b ) weighed fifty-nine grains : of course , this saline residue amounted to -"y of the expectorated matter , and to one sixteenth of this expectorated matter exsiccated .
It tasted only of muriate of soda-it had no smell -it effervesced with acids-it betrayed the presence of alkali to the tests above-mentioned-after a few days exposure to the air , it partially deliquesced-it precipitated supertartrate of potash with tartaric acid , and emitted no ammonia with lime ; nor sulphur with muriatic acid discoverable by the most delicate tests .
( d ) .
The fused matter ( c ) was boiled with three times its weight of distilled water , in which about one half appeared to dissolve .
The clear liquid decanted from the sediment and evaporated , yielded crystals of muriate of soda with a much smaller quantity of spicula , or needle-shaped crystals ; and saline matter which appeared under a lens not definitely crystallized .
A second boiling of the sediment , with twice its quantity of water , afforded almost entirely muriate of soda , A third boiling gave a few crystals of this salt only , as appeared under the magnifier .
A fourth boiling , in an equal weight of water , afforded no saline matter .
( e ) .
The saline matters ( d ) amounted to forty-five grains when evaporated to dryness .
I collected by means of a toothpick , from amongst the cubical crystals , as much as I could of the spicula and uncrystallized saline matter .
These parts effervesced and precipitated supertartrate of potash with tartaric S26 acid , and certainly afforded no soda-tartrate of potash they also afforded a precipitate with nitro-muriate of platina--being saturated with acetous acid there was still a slight precipitation with mnuriate of baryt ; for without acetous acid , there was a most copious precipitation with this re-agent , but the greater part of the precipitate was dissolved by acetous acid , added so as not to supersaturate it.-Oxalate of ammonia did not occasion a precipitation , --with nitrate of silver an abundant one took place-lime water produced only slight turbidity , The muriate of soda amounted , in this saline mass of fortyfive grains , to thirty-five grains , or nearly to one grain in 450 of expectorated matter ; the rest was subcarbonate of potash amounting to one grain in about 154o grains of expectorated matter , with w]hich was mixed a minute proportion , probably , of sulphate and of phosphate of potash .
( f ) .
The undissolved matter ( d ) boiled with muriatic acid gave a turbid liquid , but on standing , nearly the whole appeared to have been dissolved ; a small proportion of sediment only took place in a transparent liquid , which was boiled till it no longer parted with muriatic acid.-This dissolution being exsiccated grew liquid on exposure to air ; and oxalate of ammonia gradually added , produced , as I decidedly ascertained , the precipitate of oxalate of lime .
( g ) .
The filtrated residuary liquid ( U ) ; with muriate of baryt gave immediately a copious precipitation-with lime water there was milkiness produced , and subsequently a white precipitation which did not disappear on adding a small proportion of acetous acid--prussiate of potash occasioned a greenish blue colour without precipitation-succinate of amLU u 2 monia produced a milky liquid-no effect was observed from tartaric acid.-There being a precipitation with caustic or pure ammonia , as well as with potash , and with the carbonates of the alkalies , it was supposed magnesia was present : and the dissolution of this precipitate in muriatic acid , and in acetous acid , gave no precipitate with oxalic acid .
Some of the miuriatic dissolution , previously to precipitation with oxalate of ammonia ( j ) ; being evaporated to dryness , the residue was ignited ; but if magnesia , was present , as well as lime , it was in too small quantity to be distinguishable from the lime , by composing sulphate .
Tile precipitate now under examination , was certainly not mere magnesia , for it melted into an opaque globule under the blow-pipe-it was not phosphate of lime , for with sulphuric acid , a somewhat bitter and sour substance was compounded , which afforded a precipitate with ammonia , but none with oxalate of ammonia .
It was a phosphate not only on account of its fusibility , but because a curdy appearance was occasioned by the mixture just mentioned , with sulb phuric acid , on adding it to lime water .
Neither was it soluble , like phosphate of lime , in phosphoric acid .
The quantity of this precipitate was too minute for decisive experiments , but from those related , it seems probable that it was phosphate of magnesia , which was dissolved , as , will appear presently , in phosphoric acid , and precipitated by ammonia .
( h ) .
The residuary liquid ( g ) , after the precipitation by oxalate of ammonia , being evaporated to dryness , was easily ascertained to be phosphate of ammonia , with indications of a minute proportion of sulphate .
( i ) .
It remains only to notice the indissoluble matter in .
qo~8 0 " muriatic acid ( f ) .
I found it to grow soft , and the parts to cohere under the blow-pipe , and with a little potash it readily melted into an opaque globule .
8 .
To obtain a more satisfactory proof of the presence of sulphur , forty grains of charred expectorated matter were kept in a state of ignition in a platina crucible , with another inverted over it to completely exclude the escape of gas , for two hours .
After cooling , the smell of sulphuretted hydrogen gas very evident , on the addition of diluted muriatic acid , and even of water only .
Silver was tarnished , and paper wetted with liquid acetite of lead was blackened by this gas .
In some of the experiments , while the charcoal was burning off from the charred expectorated matter , I perceived the smell of sulphur , and perhaps of phosphorus . ?
III .
Agency of Alcohol of Wine .
T. ( a ) 250o grains of desiccated expectorated matter of the , fifth sort , ?
I. 5 being the one twentieth of 50,00o grains of matter previously to evaporation to dryness , were digested in four pints of alcohol of spirit of wine , of the specific gravity of 815 , water being 1ooo .
The mixture was exposed at the temperature of 58 ?
to 68 ?
for a month , during which it was frequently shaken .
A tincture , of the colour of red port wine , was then decanted from off a blackish sediment .
By means of a press , two ounces more of the tincture were obtained .
( b ) .
The undissolved residuary matter being exsiccated weighed lS3 grains less than before digestion .
On exposure to the air , it remained dry , but it became more flexible , It no longer emitted ammonia on .
trituration with lime .
829 ( c ) .
The tincture thus obtained was distilled readily till there remained about five ounces measure in the retort , and what remained seemed to be chiefly water instead of spirit , with suchla quantity of matter dissolved in it , as not to afford liquid by distillation , without frequently spirting into the receiver .
The residuary liquid was therefore evaporated to the consistence of a soft resin-like extract of a black colour ; which had a salt with bitter taste .
The distilled liquid had a peculiar pungent smell , but not that of ammonia , and it neither reddened turnsole paper , nor rendered violet cloth green .
( d ) .
The resin-like extract ( c ) weighed 140 grains .
It was semi-transparent-dissoluble in water , but not coagulable in boiling water-it grew softer on exposure to air-it was uncrystallizable-it betrayed no signs of alkalescency nor of acidity , except just giving turnsole papera reddish hue-under the blow-pipe it burnt like matter from animals , and afforded a fused globule , which indicated muriate of soda , and a large proportion of potash , deliquescing very speedily-with lime , it emitted the smell of ammonia-with phosphoric , and also with tartaric acid , on being heated , an acid smell was perceived which I at first mistook for acetous acid , for I soon found that no such acid was present , not being able to detect a trace of any acid in the distilled liquid from these mixtures -on the addition of acetite of lead , a very copious precipitation of fawn-coloured sediment instantly took place , with the smell most distinctly of apples .
The decanted liquid of this mixture was found to be chiefly acetite of potash .
On dropping diluted sulphuric acid upon the fawn-coloured sediment , it constantly emitted the smell of apples , I could not , however , satisfy myself , that the small quantity of liquid decanted from off this sediment contained a kind of vegetable acid for the first time apprehended in the fluids of animals ; because , first , the quantity of product I possessed was so diminishled by many experiments , that I was unable to make what I considered to be decisive trials .
Secondly , because in subsequent processes I failed in producing the same apple .
smelling liquid .
Hence I considered that the supposed acid , which had some of the properties of the malic , only occurred occasionally , or that I had been deceived , and that I had procured nothing more than a little of the acid employed for the decomposition , disguised by mixture with the subject of the experiments .
The fawn-coloured precipitate was , no doubt , chiefly muriate of lead .
Still the experiments fully demonstrate the presence of potash neutralized , either by an acid destructible by fire and dissoluble in alcohol , but hitherto not disunited from animal oxide , or that an oxide of animal matter alone neutralizes the potash , as will be manifested by the evidence of experiments to be related .
( e ) .
Forty-five grains of the residue ( c ) which had been dissolved in alcohol , being burned in a platina crucible , yielded chiefly potash , and half its quantity of muriate of soda .
( f ) .
Twenty-five grains of the residue ( c ) were boiled with successive portions of nitric acid , till the oxide of animal matter was decompounded and carried off in the state of gases ; and then deflagration took place , leaving subcarbonate of potash with mruriate of soda and charcoal .
According to a computation , the 140 grains of resin-like extract ( c , d ) consisted of twenty-eight grains of potash , and eighteen grains of muriate of soda , with an inappreciable quantity of ammonia , and perhaps phosphoric acid , besides the oxide of animal matter , and possibly an acid of an unknown kind .
( f ) .
The undissolved matter ( b ) was burned in a platina crucible .
It afforded a residue , which I could not render fluid by fire , but only of the consistence of paste .
On cooling , it was a brittle gray mass weighing fifty-six grains , somewhat salt and gritty to the taste .
It consisted of muriate of soda and phosphate of lime , about twelLty-three grains of each , of potash four grains-of filsed matter , which by long boiling in muriatic acid yielded phosphate of lime , muriate of lime , and utterly indissoluble vitrefied matter with traces of magnesia , oxide of iron , and a sulphate .
2 .
Four thousand grains of expectorated matter of the third kind , page 317 , ?
II .
3 were added to two pints of rectified spirit of wine .
By agitation , the spirit became at first milky , but presently it grew clear ; little curdy masses appearing , which fell to the bottom as a sediment , being in bulk about one fourth of that of the added expectorated matter .
After a month 's digestion , the filtrated liquid , on evaporation , afforded a dry extract-like residue , weighing sixty grains .
It grew moist by exposure to the air , but not when kept in close vessels .
It consisted of the same ingredients , but in very different proportions , as the residue from distilling and evaporating the tincture , page 3Q3 , ?
III .
2 , the present residue containing a much larger proportion of muriate of soda , and oxide of animal matter .
Successive digestions of the same matter afforded less and less saline residue , but nearly the same proportion of oxide of animal matter for three times , but then no saline matter was afforded , but merely animal matter .
The residues of the evaporated tinctures of the subsequent digestions did not , like the first , grow moist , but only softer ; and the oxide of animal matter from each of them was no longer coagulable , although afforded by dissolution of coagulated matter .
It appeared that the animal oxide was of one kind only , and that the whole of it might be dissolved in alcohol , and thereby become uncoagulable , and more easily dissoluble in every kind of menstruum .
3 .
If a large proportion , namely , two parts of expectorated matter be mixed with two parts of rectified spirit of wine , the matter is in great part , at least , coagulated , but the spirit is rendered milky .
The same is true with regard to other menstrua .
The reason is obvious .
The coagulation is produced by the separation of water from the animal oxide of the expectorated matter , by the attraction of the alcohol , or of acetous acid for the water ; but if there is not a due proportion of spirit or acid , the oxide of animal matter retains so much of the water , as to render the liquid milky .
A person accustomed to these experiments may determine pretty exactly by means of them , the proportion of water in the expectorated matter , it being directly as the quantity of spirit or acid requisite to produce entire coagulation in a clear liquid ; and the proportion of coagulable animal oxide is , within certain limits , inversely as the quantity of spirit requisite for coagulation .
4 .
Sulphuric ether , being in many properties analogous to alcohol of wine , I digested three hundred grains of exsiccated matter of the th ; ird kind , page 317 , in four ounces measure of MD. CCC ; IX X x this menstruum for a month , in a warm room , during which the vessel was often agitated .
Three ounces of a black tincture were thus procured , which , on distillation to dryness , afforded sixty-five grains of soft extract .
This extract became a little moist on exposure to the air , and was then a little viscid .
It burnt with flame like oil to the state of charcoal ; and this again on burning , only left two grains of residue , which consisted of muriate of soda , with indications of alkali , and phosphate of lime .
The undissolved residue also remained soft , and could not be made brittle by evaporation .
After inflammation and incineration , the usual products were obtained as from matter which had not been digested .
This menstruum had therefore dissolved abundantly the oxide of animal matter , and but a small proportion of the saline and earthy parts .
4 .
Apparently uniform expectorated matter is not of the same consistence through the whole mass ; for a few drops of the opaque kind being shaken in half a pint of rectified:spirit of wine , the whole does not dissolve , but it is broken into small curdy particles , which fall as a sediment in a clear liquid , seemingly about one-fourth of the original bulk of the matter ?
IV .
With .
Water .
i. None of the kinds of expectorated matter are readily diffisible through cold water , except the second and fourth , page 316 and 319 ; and by agitating them some fibrous pieces are usually detached ; also on inspecting the water after this diffision , it appears full of small masses , or motes .
On standIing , these suspended masses become a sediment ; which is the 834 case , although the proportion of expectorated matter be exceedingly small to that of the water .
s. When very hot water is used , namely , that of the temperature of 190 ?
to o100 , a still greater number of motes are perceivable , especially with a lens , and the water is rendered milky .
3 .
Brisk agitation is required , for a due length of time , to diffuse the other kinds of expectorated matter through cold water ; but a great number of fibrous and membranous pieces appear , whose form cannot be destroyed or only partially , by shaking , in almost any proportion of water .
Three drops of ropy and opaque matter were shaken in half a pint of distilled water .
About one half of them was diffused ; the rest was in the form of small fibrous , leafy , and irregular figured motes ; which , on repose , formed a sediment , and remained in that state three months ; although in that time the water became highly foetid , and sometimes in this experiment the sides of the vessel were tinged black .
4 .
Agitation of these sorts of expectorated matter ( 3 ) , in a large proportion of water at the temperature of 170 ' and upwards , produced a greater degree of milkiness , and a greater number of small masses , which could not be dissolved by long shaking .
Putrefaction did not take place so soon in these mixtures , as in those with cold water .
5 .
If the proportion of the last mentioned kinds of expectorated matter ]be two or three parts to one of cold water , or utnder the temperature of coagulation , an uniform mixture may be produced by violent agitation , the water being entalngled by the viscidity of the matter rather than chemically united .
Xx $55 6 .
On boiling the mixtures ( 5 ) , a great part of the expectorated matter is separated in a curdy form , from a milky liquid .
7 .
If less than two grains of expectorated matter were di fused through five hundred grains of water , no evident precipitation was occasioned by tannin ; while with one grain of isinglass jelly , or white of egg , or of serum of blood dissolved in five hundred grains of water , there was an evident precipitation with this re-agent .
8 .
I could arrive at no useful conclusions , for the distinction of expectorated matter from other coagulable , or from any gelatinous substances by comparative trials with muriate of tin , nitro-muriate of gold , oxymuriate of mercury , acetite of ceruss , and acetite of litharge . ?
V. A , ency of acetous Acid .
1 .
Twenty ounces of ropy opaque matter , by being shaken with ten pints of distilled vinegar , were so broken .
into a : fibrous or even vascular form as to exhibit an organized appearance , the bulk being reduced to at least one thirdof the ropy matter .
By repeated agitation and long digestion , the coagulated masses were broken into .
smaller pieces , but did not appear to be further contracted in .
bulk , or to dissolve. .
With soine parcels of matter , the vinegar preserved its transparency , with others it became whey-like , thematters being deposited in a curdy state .
The mucilage-like expectorated matter , or this mixed with the other kinds , afforded wheylike , or more or less turbid liquids with vinegar .
2 .
( a ) The decanted liquid , and the liquid obtained by pressure of the sediments of the last mixture ( 1 ) , being distilled to about one eighth , the remainder was evaporated to the consistence of a t:hick extract .
The distilled liquid did not appear to have received any impregnation , except what had altered a little the odour .
This extract-like residue amounted to one forty-fifth to one eightieth the weight of the expectorated matter , according to the kind of this substance .
It varied also according to the proportion of the matter to the acid mnenstruum .
( b ) .
The residue ( 2 , a ) just mentioned , after digestion a second time , in the same quantity of acid , afforded a smaller quantity of extract-like matter than before .
( c ) .
The third digestion afforded still less of this substance .
( d ) .
The fourth and fifth digestion gave somewhat less than the immediately preceding one .
( e ) .
The sixth digestion yielded nearly the same proportion of extract-like matter as the fourth and fifth .
3 .
The undissolved matter , after these repeated digestions in vinegar ( 1 , 2 ) , being exposed to fire in a platina crucible , .
first flamed and partially melted ; then became apparently charcoal , which burned away to the state of a brown earthlike substance scarcely I. of the weight of the substance subjected to fire , and not above i-xo of the expectorated matter by which it was afforded .
It consisted chiefly of phosphate of lime , with indications of carbonate of lime , of a sulphate , of a muriate , of silica , or at least vitrified matter , and of oxide of iron .
4 .
The extract-like matter , from the first digestion of the expectorated matter ( 2 a ) , by exposure to the air , in a few 337 days partially deliquesced- , affording no signs of alkalesoency , but having a peculiar salt taste .
( a ) .
A little of this deliquescing part being boiled to dryness , with a large proportion of nitrous acid , on beginning to be ignited , it deflagrated , leaving a blackish saline residue ; which soon deliquesced , and being lixiviated , it precipitated supertartrate of potash with tartaric acid , and gave a reddish precipitate with nitro-muriate of platina .
The residue also contained lime , for the dissolution in acetous acid afforded oxalate of 3ime , on the addition of oxalate of ammonia .
( b ) .
This extract-like matter ( 2 a ) , by digestion in rectified spirit of wine , gave a blackish tincture , which being decanted and evaporated , left a residue .
This became quite liquid after twenty-four hours exposure to the air .
It consisted chiefly of acetite of potash , with an inappreciable portion of muriate of soda , and ammonia neutralized , probably , by phosphoric acid ; besides uncoagulable and ungelatinizable oxide of animal substance .
( c ) .
The undissolved matter by spirit of wine , just spoken of ( b ) , after expression , being desiccated , it remained in a solid state after exposure to the air , only growing a little soft in four weeks time .
By combustion , it afforded a difficultly fusible ash , which after fusion was found to consist chiefly of phosphate of lime , muriate of soda , with a little potash ; a sulphate , traces of iron , and vitrified matter , which probably contained silica united to the other substances manifested in this fused mass .
5 .
The extract-like matter , by acetous acid on the second digestion ( 2 b ) , grew soft , but did not deliquesce on exposure to the air .
It was found to differ from the matter obtaile-d s38s by the first digestion in the same menstruum , in containing a much smaller proportion of potash and muriate of soda , as well as of neutralized ammonia .
6 .
The extract-like matter , from the third digestion in vinegar ( g c ) , differed from the former , in containing a still much less quantity of the salts just mentioned .
7 .
The fourth and subsequent digestions ( 2 , d , e ) afforded extract-like substances , which contained scarcely any thing but a very small proportion of earthy phosphates , and indissoluble vitrified matter , produced by incineration and fusion .
It did not appear that the oxide of animal matter , dissolved by the distilled vinegar in all the preceding digestions successively , was of different kinds ; but it appeared , that its coagulable property was destroyed by dissolution in this menstruum .
Accordingly , there is no reason to believe that the whole of this oxide is not dissoluble in the acid here employed , although the requisite proportion may decrease after each digestion , within certain limits .
8 .
A few drops of opaque ropy matter being agitated in half a pint of vinegar , a number of fibrous masses appear , apparently onel fourth or one fifth the bulk of the matter added ; and these fibrous forms subsist , notwithstatnding continued agitation , totally disappearing only in consequence of long digestion in .
successive large quantities of this acid . ?
VI .
some Experimzents wzith different Objects .
i. To produce a synthetic proof that potash may be neutralized by oxide of animal matter , I triturated ten grains of the exsiccated and coagulated part of expectorated matter freed from all saline substance , with pure potash gradually added , and a little water .
Several grains were in this way utnited , without any effect being produced by the compound on turineric paper .
More alkali was added till the compound barely manifested the existence of alkali to the test just mentioned .
It was then digested in spirit of wine , to which it imparted a deep brown colour , and the tincture being distilled , it afflrded a dry extract , which grew moist on exposure to the air , but scarcely affected turmeric paper .
On incineration , however , the alkali was denuded , and fusion was produced easily .
An equal portion of the animal oxide , of the same parcel as in the last experiment , was digested in spirit of wine , in the same circumstances as this oxide united to potash .
It imparted no colour to the spirit , and the extract obtained was in smaller quantity , than in the preceding experiment .
Being evaporated to dryness , the residue did not grow moist , but it became a little soft on exposure to the air .
Being exposed to fire , it left an inconsiderable proportion of infusible residue , with barely traces of alkali and muriate .
2 .
To determine , by a more satisfactory experiment than a preceding one , whether or not acid was united to the potash and evaporable , ten ounces of watery liquid , which separates from the curd on boiling expectorated matter , were evaporated to the consistence of a thin extract .
This matter indicated neither acid nor alkali in a disengaged state , but it was ascertained to contain a large proportion of potash combined ; and an acid smell was perceived on heating it with phosphoric or tartaric acid .
Ten drops of liquid phosphoric acid were mixed with four hundred grains of this extract-like matter , and at a low temperature it was subjected to distillation to become almost a dry substance , but no acid could be detected in the little liquid which came over , nor did this dry substance indicate any acidity to the usual re-agents-neither on exposure to the air did it , as before the addition of acid , grow moist .
Phosphoric acid was further added till it became sensible to the test of turnsole : but neither by elutriation nor distillation could any acid be obtained , except a small portion of the phosphoric acid by elutriation , the rest having united to the potash .
3 .
To furnish an estimate of the proportion of ammlonia , I subjected to distillation , a mixture of a pint of expectorated matter of the fifth kind , page 321 , with three ounces of well burnt lime , but I could not reckon the ammonia in the distilled liquid at more than two cubic inches , or less than half a grain in weight , , ?
VII .
Conclzsions .
i. From the preceding experiments and observations , and from others which I might have related , it does not appear that the various kinds of expectorated matter , page 14 , differ in the ingredients of their composition , but merely in the proportion of them to one another .
2 .
It has been shown that expectorated matter consists of coagulable , or , is it is also now frequently termed albuminous animal subtance , and of water impregnated with several saline and earthy bodies-that the largest proportion of the animal substance , which may justly be called an oxide , amounts to one twelfth , and in some very rare cases to one tenth of the expectorated matter , reduced to a brittle state by evaporation ; and that the smallest proportion of this oxide , in rare instances , amounts to one forty-fifth of the expectorated matter ; but that the usual proportions of it vary between one twentieth and one sixteenth of this coagulable oxide to the evaporable MDcccIx .
Y y water , that is , between five and six per cent. of the expecto.rated matter .
3 .
The impregnating substances have been shown to be Muriate of soda , varying commonly between one and a half to two and a half per 1 ooo of the expectorated matter-Potash varying between one half and three fourths of a part per 1 oooPhosphate of lime about half a part of 1ooo--Ammonia , united probably to the phosphoric acid ; Phosphate , perhaps of magnesia ; Carbonate of lime ; a Sulphate ; vitrifiable matter , or perhaps silica ; and oxide of Iron .
But the whole of these last six substances scarcely amounting to one part in i oo of the expectc rated matter , it would be useless to estimate the proportion of each of them .
It is very probable that the proportions and quantities of these ingredients , vary much more than now represented in different states of disease and health.* It is very probable also , that some of the ingredients may occasionally be absent , and others of a different kind be present , agreeably to the different states , on different occasions of the pther secretions .
4 .
It is manifest that the different states of consistence of expectorated matter , are owing to the proportion of albuminous or coagulable oxide , but I purposely avoid giving an account of the different conditions of health , on which the differences of consistence depend .
5 .
The thicker the matter , the smaller I commonly found the quantity of saline impregnation .
Hence , in sudden and copious secretions of the bronchial membrane , the matter is asserted to be salt , and to feel hot .
In such instances , the proportion of coagulable matter was small , but that of the saline impregnations , particularly of the muriate of soda , and neutralized potash so great , that the exsiccated expectorated substance tasted very salt , and presently grew moist , or even partially deliquesced ; but the opaque ropy or puriform matter afforded a much larger proportion of exsiccated residue , which was but slightly salt , and generally only became soft on exposure to the air .
This property of growing moist depends upon the potash .
6 .
Each of the human fluids , according to my experiments , contain neutralized potash ; at least , this is the fact of the blood , dropsy fluid , pus of abscesses , and pus secreted without breach of surface ; the fluid effused by vesicating with cantharides ; the urine ; and in course in the very abundant secretion from the nose by a catarrh .
The alkali being united to oxide of animal matter in these fluids , it is easily demonstrable .
7 .
Although I think I have discovered many properties by which expectorated secretion may be distinguished from expectorated pus , I shall not speak of them , on this occasion , further than just to observe that the saline impregnation of pus , particularly that of potash , and muriate of soda is in very much less proportion than in expectorated secretion ; and hence it does not beconme moist after exsiccation , on exposure to the air .
8 , It has been , I believe , uniformly asserted , that the circulating and secreted fluids are impregnated with soda ; that it is especially in the matter secreted by the bronchial membrane .
The experiments of others must confirm or disprove mine .
It seems , however , much more reasonable , that the human fluids should be found to contain potash than soda , united to some oxide or destructible acid ; because the former alkali is daily introduced with the vegetable food , and with the Yy$ drink of fermented liquor ; and it is as little likely to be destroyed , as the muriate of soda also induced in the very same way .
But our food and drink do not , commonly at least , contain the seda united to a destructible acid , or an oxide .
9 .
It is plain , from the preceding experiments , that expectorated matter belongs to the class of coagulable fluids , and not of gelatinizable , or , as commonly asserted , mucous fluids .
It differs from the coagulable fluid , serum of blood , in forming a much thicker fluid with a much larger proportion of water : for serum and also the water of blisters , is quite liquid , although they afford , on exsiccation , one twelfth to one eleventh of their weight of brittle residue , while some kinds of expectorated matter , of the consistence of mucilage , afford only one fortieth of dry residue , and others of the consistence of thin paste , afford only one fourteenth of residue .
lo .
But for the unavoidable extent of this paper , I should trouble the learned Society with various other conclusions and remarks , especially concerning the globularity of expectorated matter , which seems to indicate organization .
Although ANTONIUS VAN LEWENHOECK , above a century ago , discovered the globularity of the blood , and even noticed it in other animal fluids , neither he , nor any other person , as far as I know , investigated the subject in any fluid but the blood , till by Mr , HOME'S acuteness and industry , at a very early period of life , it was observed in pus .
I have in this paper related , that expectorated matter , especially the opaque ropy kind , as well as the puriform , is full of globules , and that , except by such agents as destroy charcoal , they are scarcely destructible .
Do these spherical particles consist chiefly of organized carbonaceous matter ?

