]\gt ; On a jVIethod of Determining the Viscosity of especially those Available only in Small Quantities . .
By A. O. , B.Sc , .
, Assisbant in the Department of Physics , University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. F. T. Trouton , F.R.S. Received November 16 , 1909 , \mdash ; Read January 13 , 1910 .
) The apparatus about to be described was designed for the purpose of comparing the viscosities of neon , xenon , and krypton\mdash ; the loan of which Sir William amsay kindly offered the author\mdash ; with that of air .
With such small quantities of gas available , the volume content of the apparatus must obviously be correspondingly small , and therefore , it would seem , unsuitable for absolute measurements .
The object of the present paper is to show that this is by no means the case .
As will be seen later , the method is actually restricted to small quantities by the conditions of the experiments , but there is no reason why it should not be used even when the gas under test may be obtained in practically unlimited amount .
Theory of the Method .
Consider a closed glass vessel ( as in fig. 1 ) consisting of two connected limbs , one a fine capillaly tube and the other of much greater cross-sectional area , yet sufficiently narrow for a pellet of mercury to remain intact in it .
Let be the volume unoccupied by mercury ( the volume of the capillary tube being considered negligible ) .
Let denote the steady pressure of the in the tube when the latter is held horizontally , and let be the FIG. 1 .
difference of pressure caused by the mercury pellet when the apparatus is vertical .
Let be the pressure and the volume at any time above the mercury , and , the corresponding quantities below the mercury .
Then , and Further , if we assume that the temperature remains constant , always .
Substituting for 1909 .
] Method of .
Determining the Viscosity of or 2 .
( 4 ) This is the exact solution , but it involves a knowledge of and , which , as will appear , is not convenient .
If we make the restriction that is small compared with and that , we can obtain an equation much simpler but yet sufficiently accurate .
Let be the symmetrically placed volume vept out by the tail end of the mercury .
Then ; and Hence 2 , and 2 Calling the left-hand side of equation ( 4 ) , we now have As is less than unity , we may expand the .
term .
For brevity write terms to the third power only , Now must be less than unity ; and by a pellet of mercury not exceeding 5 cm .
in length in gas at atmospheric pressure , the quantity is less than , an error mucIl smaller than others to which the measurement is liable .
With sufficient accuracy , then , It should be pointed out that in tlJis equation is radius of capillary tube , is difference of pressure on the two sides of the mercury , is of capillary tube , is volume swept out by the mercury , is time of fall .
Owing to capillary attraction in the wider limb , the value of is not proportional to the length of the mercury pellet .
If the latter were by the downward movement , capillarity would produce no resultant effect , on account of the symmetry of the ends .
Actually , however , it is observed that , when in motion , the upper surface is less curved than the lower one .
results in a diminution of the effective driving pressure .
But if observations are taken with different lengths of mercury , it is found that the relation between the mass of the pellet and the time of fall can be represented with considerable accuracy by an equation of the Yethod of Dete , rmining the scosity of Gases .
269 ' and so that , from the point of view of volumes , they were symmetrically placed .
This was done by admitting a certain volume of mercury and it to occupy completely the two ends in succession .
The marks were then placed at the respective surfaces .
The distance between them was found to be cm .
It was decided to make these observations at atmospheric temperatures , the present object being to test the accuracy with which absolute values of the viscosity could be obt , ained .
For purposes of deberminino the tem : perature variation , the apparatus be readily jacketed with an , electrically heated oil-bath , and it is intended to do this when experimenting with the rare gases of the atmosphere .
The apparatus was thoroughly cleaned with caustic potash and nitric acid , and washed out with distilled water and absolute alcohol .
Dimensions of the Apparatus .
( 1 ) Value of The capillary tube was calibrated before being put into the apparatus .
The correct mean fourth power of the radius was calculated to the graphical method used by W. J. Fisher .
* This mean is the reciprocal of the harmonic mean of .
The tube was fairly uniform , the extreme variations amounting to less than 3 per cent. The value of for the equivalent uniform tube was found to be cm.4 .
( 2 ) Value of This was compared with a standard invar metre , and the value obtained was cm .
An error of perhaps a millimetre may have been made in this measurement owing to the uncertainty of position of the conical ends .
This amounts to per cent. , and is probably the chief source of error in the determinations .
( 3 ) Value of The volume between the marks and ( fig. 2 ) was obtained by drawing off that amount of mercury from the apparatus .
The latter was filled to a point above , and the mercury was then run off until the surface reached .
The mercury was then run into a weighed vessel until the surface was at From the weight of mercury thus run off , the weight of the mercury W. J. Fisher , ' Physical Review , ' February ( 1909 ) .
Method of Observation .
The atus was first filled with dry air and about 5 grammes of -t ; mercury admitted .
The time taken by the rear end of the mercury in describing the path from to was observed .
The apparatus was then inverted , and the time in the other direction taken .
Several of these inversions were performed .
Some mercury was then run off and weighed , and the new time of fall measured .
By repeating his process a series of numbers was obtained giving the relation between the mass of the mercury pellet and the time of fall .
Frequent readings of the temperature were taken , and in no case was the variation more than C. The times were measured by means of a stop-watch and were corrected by reference to a chronometer .
The following is a complete set of observations at an average C. Mass of mercury originally admitted grammes .
Times of all .
to to Mean Mean of all secs .
Corrected time grammes of mercury drawn off .
New mass of pellet grammes .
Times of Fall .
to to Mean Mean of all secs .
Corrected time 1316 grammes of mercury drawn off .
New mass of pellet rammes .
1909 .
] Method of nining the Viscosity of Gases .
iand the closeness of the fit is indicated by the following table:\mdash ; ' cent. Equally good fits were obtained in the other cases at slightly different temperatures .
are the values of and : \mdash ; Temp. The variation of is not necessarily a temperature variation .
value depends on the particular specimen of mercury used and the state of cleanness of the tube .
In any one determination these factors are constant , bul vary in passing from one to the other .
The variation in l ) must be regarded a a true temperature variation .
use of the relation we obtain the following absolute values for the viscosity of dry .
units .
These values are shown plotted in fig. 4 , and the result is practically a straight line , the equation It is not suggested that the above temperature coefficient is anything more than approximate .
Obviously one cannot expect to obtain an accurate value for so small a quantity , using a temperature range of only C. It will be used merely to obtain values for comparing with the results of other observers in the neighbourhood of these temperatures .
1909 .
] Method mining the Viscosity of .
275 Further , when an attempt is made to compare the results with those of other observers , one is met with the difficulty of the great gence in the values obtained by fferent observers .
The latter vary , for the same temperature , by several umits in the third nificant figure .
The author has therefore confined the comparison to comparatively recent determinations , and has further restricted it to cases where the transpiration method has 1oeen used .
The reason for this is that determinations by the method are consistently much higher than the others .
Several observers at the Uniyersity of Halle have recently made determinations with an apparatus designed by Schultze , the results have been collected by Schmitt for the purpose of estimating the temperatule variation .
Comparison has also been made with the values obtained and Fisher .
S The results are as follows:\mdash ; In the last case the mean of three observafion by Fisher at ) and has been taken .
It will be noticed that the values obtained by the method described in this paper are somewhat lower than those of other observers , with the exception of Fisher 's .
The difference between the results is , however , not large , and the author thinks that the above comparison , combined with the consistency of his own observations , points to the conclusion that absolute values of the viscosity are obtainable by the method here described .
Uses of the Attention may be called to the variety of determinations for which the apparatus is specially suitable .
The the kindness of Sir William Ramsay\mdash ; proposes to use it for comparing the viscosities of the rare H. Schultze , ' Ann. der Physik , ' Series 4 , vol. 5 , p. 140 ( 1901 ) .
K. Schmitt , ' Ann. der Physik , ' Series 4 , vol. 30 , ) ) . .
Breitenbach , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 67 , p. 813 .
W. J. Fisher , ' ysical Review , ' February ( 1909 ) .

