1885 .
] Absorption Spectra of the Alkaloids .
191 periodic law in regard to the atomic weight of an element , and shows that such deductions will in future form one of the most important factors in fixing a doubtful atomic weight .
The author did not [ appreciate the full value of the periodic law when he wrote his former paper , otherwise he would probably have stated his conclusions less positively .
March 12 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Absorption Spectra of the Alkaloids .
Part II .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received March 5 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) Having lately completed an examination of a series of aconitines from different sources , kindly sent to me by Dr. Stevenson , Lecturer on Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence at Guy 's Hospital , London , I beg leave to offer the results to the Royal Society .
The list of specimens , which was accompanied by remarks upon them , is the following:\#151 ; No. 1 .
" Exotic aconitine , probably German , rather inert .
" No. 2 .
" A fine specimen of crystallised aconitine , special , prepared by T. Morson and Son , 124 , Southampton Row , London .
" No. 3 .
" Aconitine , from Burgoyne , Burbidges , and Co. , 16 , Coleman Street , London .
" No. 4 .
" Nitrate of aconitine .
" ( This specimen was accidentally destroyed .
) No. 5 .
" Aconitine of uncertain source .
" " Of these specimens only two , namely , No. 2 and No. 3 , were found to exhibit absorption-bands , and the corresponding curves were drawn from photographs of their spectra .
Morson 's fine specimen , the crystals of which were one and even two millimetres in length , was found to absorb the rays at two points , the two absorptions being equally strong .
It is noticeable that the most The Absorption Spectra of the Alkaloids .
[ Mar. 12 , active aconitines appear to be those with the strongest absorption-bands and of the commercial samples scarcely two yield the same absorption-spectra .
The variations in the curves indicate that not only may there be considerable differences in their composition , but also in their chemical constitution .
Having prepared some of the tertiary bases in a state of great purity , it was considered desirable to examine the spectra transmitted by pyridine , piperidine , quinoline , tetra-hydro-quinoline , and quinoline hydrochloride .
It was found that the addition of six atoms of hydrogen to pyridine , and four atoms of hydrogen to quinoline , caused the products to become more diactinic .
Hex-hydro-pyridine , otherwise piperidine , shows no absorption-band , as was predicted .
Quinoline hydrochloride yields a spectrum differing from that of the base .
Substitution products- are less diactinic than the simple bases .
As a study of these and similar bodies promises to lead to conclusions apart from such as are of importance in this investigation , and of interest in themselves , a detailed account will be reserved for the present .
The position of the absorption-bands occurring in the spectra transmitted by these tertiary bases may be stated in the following manner:\#151 ; Pyridine .
Quinoline .
Two bands Band between ... ... ... ... ... .
With less substance , between. .
0)..{ ( 2 ) . .
{ Between ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
With less substance , between. .
Between ... ... ... ... * ... ... .
With less substance , between. .
Measurements of absorption-bands in wave-lengths .
2700 and 2300 2570 and 2400 3085 and 3039 3078 and 3039 3170 and 2600 2980 and 2830 Tetra-hydro-quinoline .
T hd m / \#174 ; etwee:n ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 3180 and 2750 wo an s * * [ With less substance , between. .
3180 and 2870 ( 2 ) / Between ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2700 and 2300 [ With less substance , between. .
2650 and 2370 Quinoline hydrochloride .
Two bands ( 1 ) f Between [ With less substance , between. .
f Between ... ... ... ... ... ... ... L With less substance , between. .
3180 and 2750 3180 and 2870 2700 and 2300 2650 and 2370Substances such as any of the natural alkaloids , which may be derived from dihydroquinoline or tetra-hydroquinoline , by replacement of the hydrogens by other elements or radicals , in such a manner as 1885 .
] The Chemical Constitution of Isatin .
to leave the nucleus of the compound unchanged , must be expected to exhibit absorption-bands .
It now appears highly probable\#151 ; 1 .
That morphia and some other of the opium bases are derived from pyridine .
\lt ; 2 .
That strychnine is a derivative of pyridine .
3 .
That brucine is a derivative of tetra-hydroquinoline , or an addi- : tion-product of quinoline of the same character , since there is a remarkable similarity between the absorption curves of the two first-named substances .
I cannot close this paper without acknowledging indebtedness to the great skill and care that my assistant , Mr. W. R. Barnett , has bestowed on these later observations .
II .
" Contributions towards the Solution of the Chemical Constitution of Isatin .
" By H. Kolbe .
[ The following pages contain the last experimental researches\#151 ; unfortunately unfinished\#151 ; of Hermann Kolbe , upon isatoic acid ( Isato-saui'e ) and its transformations .
I have endeavoured , in drawing up this paper , to infuse into it the true meaning and spirit of the deceased .
This difficult task has been made all the lighter for me from my having had , at the time these investigations were being carried out , frequent conversations with him upon the subject of them , but especially by his own exact notes .
Dr. Th. Bellmann and Herr Gr .
Schmidt , who assisted Professor Kolbe in part of the researches herein described , have also given me valuable assistance .
The title of this paper , " Contributions towards the Solution of the Chemical Constitution of Isatin , " is from the author himself .
He began to write the paper but a few hours before his death .
The opening paragraphs ( printed in italics ) are the last bequest which he has made to us .
The concluding ones ( also in italics ) are taken from remarks made by him which were plainly meant to form a part of this communication .
E. v. MEYER .
] Notwithstanding that so many facts have been collected with the object of definitely settling the constitution of yet arguments of weight sufficient to support a hypothesis of its rational , or indeed to raise it above the mere level of a hypotheare still wanting .
The property of isatin of forming crystalline compounds with the alkaline bisulphites led to the supposition of its belonging to the class of aldehydes or ketones ; its property , when in contact with bases , of assimilating the elements of water , and therewith forming isatic acid , from which

