1887 .
] On the Os Pubis in Crocodilia .
December 8 , 1887 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. William Whitaker was admitted into the Society .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Sir William Bowman .
Dr. Frankland .
Sir G. H. Richards .
The Earl of Rosse .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Bone in Crocodilia which is commonly regarded as the Os Pubis , and its representative among the Extinct Reptilia .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. , Professor of Geo-graphy in King 's College , London .
Received October 24 , 1887 .
Normally three elements enter into the construction of the pelvic girdle , each of which unites with the other two , and contributes to the formation of the acetabulum for the femur .
The ilium and ischium are always more or less ossified , but sometimes the pubis remains represented by cartilage throughout life .
Among the Amphibia the ptlbis is often in this cartilaginous state in its living representatives , so that only two bones and a cartilage usually contribute to form the articular cup for the femur .
Among Urodeles the pubic cartilage is perforated by a foramen , which corresponds with the foramen in the ossified pubis of a lizard , and appears to carry the obturator nerve ; so that its identification with the pubis is established .
But the pubis and ischium are often connate ; by which term I designate that embryonic state in which no division of the primitive cartilage into separate elements has occurred .
It is not quite so evident that the similarly placed cartilage in certain Anura is homologous with that of Urodeles , since it is not perforated in the same way ; and it becomes smaller in aged specimens by the ischium encroaching upon it .
It is absent in VOL. XLIII .
T 236 Prof. H. G : Seeley .
[ Dec. 8 , the genus Hyla ; such absence , considered with the presence of a pubis in Dactylethra , would support the conclusion that the pubis and ilium are connate in Anura .
In the young of Crocodilia the same three elements contribute to the formation of the articular cup for the femur , the ilium above , the ischium behind , and a cartilage in front .
Professor Ploffmann* regarded this cartilage as the pubis , and then the bone which is anterior to it , and had previously been identified as the pubis , became the pre-pubis .
Professor Huxley questioned this identification , and regarded the bone as the ossified part , and the cartilage apparently as the unossified portion of the pubic element of the pelvis.f This cartilage is well known to decrease in dimensions with the age of the crocodile , but it does not disappear by augmenting the extent of the supposed pubic bone ; though if it were really a pubic cartilage , its ossification should cause the anterior bony element to extend into the acetabulum .
But instead of disappearing in this way , ossification has the effect of continuing to exclude the supposed pubic bone from the acetabulum ; so that the cartilage in the young animal does not give rise to a separate osseous element in the adult , but disappears by so ossifying as to approximate the ischium and ilium .
At first there is a gap between the ischium and ilium anteriorly , which the cartilage fills , but eventually in old animals these bones almost meet each other , and the cartilage is ossified .
ThuS in the adult animal the acetabulum is formed by two bones , one being the ilium , and the other in the position otherwise occupied by the ischium and pubis .
Therefore it follows , either ( 1 ) that the pubic cartilage , if originally distinct in the young , becomes incorporated by ossification with the ilium and ischium ; or that ( 2 ) the pubis in crocodiles does not enter into the acetabulum , but is a pre-acstabular ossification .
I am aware of no exception to the law that the pubis contributes to the os iunominatum when it has a separate existence , and therefore it seems to me more probable to suppose that ischium and pubis should be connate , like the same elements in some salamanders , and undivided , than that crocodiles should so differ in plan of the skeleton , as to have the pubis removed from connexion with the ilium , and from the acetabulum .
If the former view prevails , then the acetabular cartilage in crocodiles is never a pubic cartilage , but only the unossified part of the ilium or ischio-pubic bone which * ' Niederl .
Archiv Zool. , ' vol. 3 , 1876 , p. 144 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 28 , 1879 , p. 394 .
Prof. Huxley 's language is not quite clear on this point .
He says ( p. 398 ) " It is the osseous portions of the pubes which are commonly described as the entire bone .
" " These apparently anomalous elements of the pelvis are readily moveable upon their fibro-cartilaginous connexions with the acetabulum .
But in no essential respect do they differ from ordinary pubes .
" On the Os Pubis in Crocodilia .
1887 .
] occupies the place of the pubis , and so it is manifest that if the pubis enters into the acetabulum in crocodiles , it must be found in the anterior process of what is commonly named the ischium , which fills the anterior corner of the pelvic basin .
And since no exception to this position of the pubis among vertebrates is known , by which it articulates with the ilium , the conclusion is legitimate , in the absence of evidence to the contrary , that a bone which does not unite with the ilium by bony union , and which is carried in front of a process which occupies the usual position of the pubis , cannot be the pubic bone .
It would be equally unprecedented for the pubis and ischium to be connate in a reptile , were it not that this condition is already established in the existing Amphibia , and were there not strong reasons for regarding the crocodiles as descended from extinct allies of the Amphibian class ; while in an 6arly stage of development all the pelvic elements in crocodiles are connate .
Hence I concur with Professor Huxley in regarding Professor Hoffmann 's identification of the pelvic acelabular cartilage as the pubis as untenable .
Professor Hoffmann regards the bone which is commonly identified as the pubis as being the pre-pubis.* Professor Huxley , on the other hand , regards it as being a portion of the pubis , and bases his identification mainly on the relations of this bony element to the pelvic muscles .
There is an a priori objection to the latter interpretation , because it would introduce a joint in the middle of the pubis , making one part connate with the ischium , and the other part a free bone .
Of such a condition I am not aware that vertebrate osteology offers any example , and the improbability against it being a true interpretation seems to be great .
That a bone may ossify from several centres is evident from the bones of Mammalia and certain young birds and lizards ; but in crocodiles none of the bones are thus characterised , and therefore I can only conclude with Hoffmann , that the ossification is a distinct element of the skeleton , which is connected with the pubic portion of what I term the ischio-pubic bone , and is in the position of the pre-pubic bone ; but it does not necessarily follow that it is identical with the pre-pubic cartilage , which has been termed by Hoffmann and Huxley the epipubis .
For the cartilage , whether in Amphibians or Mammals , is developed from the median line of the pubic symphysis ; while in crocodiles the pubes do not form a symphysis , because they are not developed distally , and the pre-pubic ossification is situate immediately below the acetabulum , in the position of the pectineal process ; so that while the Amphibian cartilage is m the position of the marsupial bones of mammals , the crocodilian * Professor Haughton ( ' Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , ' vol. 1 , 1868 , p. 282 ) bases the nomenclature of the bones on the muscular anatomy , and terms the reputed pubis the marsupial bone ; the ischium then becomes the pubis ; while the ilium is the ilium in its anterior part , and the ischium in the posterior part .
T 2 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
[ Dec. 8 , bone corresponds in position with the pre-pubic bone of Ornithosanrs , which is always developed on the anterior pubic border towards the acetabulum , at some distance from the pubic symphysis .
The extinct allies of the Crocodilia may throw some light upon the nature of this ' ossification .
First , in the Teleosauria the bone is much more slender and less expanded at its anterior end , in all the species from the Lias and Lower Oolitic rocks .
The diminution in size of the bone in Oxford clay representatives of the group is more marked , and in some undescribed types in the collection of A. Leeds , Esq. , is reduced to a mere bony style without any expansion at either end , comparable in form and substance to a lucifer match .
One stage more of diminished development would obliterate the bone altogether , but no such condition has yet been discovered .
It has the same osseous attachment as in Crocodilia , and the ischio-pubic bone is of the same type in Teleo-sauifia as in Crocodiles .
In the Ornithosauria the plan of the pelvis is different .
First , there is the complete ossification of the three constituent bones , with the ilium prolonged in front of the acetabulum as well as behind it , the ischium and pubis united by symphysis , and all three bones contributing to form the imperforate acetabulum .
Secondly , there is a pre-pubic ossification in front of the pubis , with a narrow attachment below the acetabulum .
These pre-pubic bones vary in form in the different genera .
In Dimorphodon they are triangular ; in Cycnorhamphus they are shaped like a capital and so expanded anteriorly that Pre-pubic bones of Cycn after Quenstadt .
Restored .
a , attachment to the pubic bones .
the cross bars from the two sides met in the median line ; in Rham-phorhynchus the shape is an inverted capital |_ , but the bones of the two sides are united together into a transverse bowshaped bar .
Other modifications are found in the group , but the most common are approximations to the form of the pre-pubic bones of crocodiles .
Since these bones have the same relations to the pubes which the pre-pubic bones of crocodiles exhibit , I regard them as being homologous , and if the distal part of the Ornithosaurian On the Os Pubis in Crocodilia .
1887 .
] pabis were not developed , the homology would be supported by a similar plan of pelvic construction .
Finally , there is some evidence that a similar structure is developed in the abdominal region of the allies of Iguanodon , without being in direct union with the pelvis .
As long since as 1841 Dr. Mantell , F.R.S. , figured in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' ( PI .
8 , fig. 2 ) an undetermined Wealden bone , which is now in the British Museum , registered as No. 2218 .
It is not quite perfect , but is suggestively similar to the pre-pubic bones of Ornithosaurs .
A thick sutural surface shows that it met a similar bone in the median line .
Subsequently Mr. S. H. Beckles , F.R.S. , obtained another specimen into which two such bones entered as constituents , which was exhibited during the British Association Meeting at Brighton , in 1872 , and ultimately described and figured by Mr. J. W. Hulke , F.R.S.* Bones , like that figured by Mantell , have long been in the British Museum .
And Professor Cope has figured a pair of similar bones in Diclonius mirabilis.f Air .
Hulke interpreted Mr. Beckles ' specimen as consisting of the clavicles and interclavicle .
Mr. W. Davies , F.G.S. , had interpreted the isolated bones like Mantell'sNo .
2218 , as clavicles , and his determination had been accepted by Professor 0 .
C. Marsh ; so that until M. Dollo regarded them as parts of the sternum they had been regarded as clavicles .
Dr. George Baur , of Yale College , subsequently in 1885f suggested that the supposed sternal apparatus of Iguanodon should be turned round , so that the supposed clavicles would become posterior processes of the sternum , and this view has been supported by Cope and adopted by myself .
I suppose that the interpretation of the Beckles specimen was a consequence of its condition of preservation , by which fractures came to simulate sutures .
Those fractures which are assumed to limit the clavicles , so as to allow the supposed interclavicle to extend between them , follow very different courses from the natural limits of the bones .
If Mantell 's fossil already referred to is superimposed upon Mr. Beckles ' specimen , then it is manifest that the broad part of the specimen is made up of two such bones which meet by median suture , and extend for two-thirds the length of the specimen .
Some trace of the transverse suture may perhaps be seen which separates these bones from a thm ossification which extends beyond them .
Hence there can be no interclavicle between the supposed clavicles ; and the evidence for the identification of the clavicles disappears .
Turning the specimen so that the supposed clavicles point posteriorly , they will be found to make a remarkable approximation in form to the pre-pubic # ' Geol .
Soc. Quart , Journ. , ' vol. 41 , 1885 , PI .
XIY , p. 473 .
t ' American Naturalist , ' Feb. 1886 , p. 154 .
X 'Zoologischer Anzeiger , ' No. 205 , p. 561 .
Prof. H. G. Seeley .
[ Dec. 8 , . ?
Pre-pubic bones of Iguanodon , restored from No. 2218 , Brit. Mus. bones of the crocodile .
Professor Huxley* figured the ventral aspect of a Crocodilus acutus at about the close of embryonic life , in which a considerable fibrous development was found anterior to each pre-pubic bone .
This condition varies with age .
In a large adult crocodile from Abyssinia , in the British Museum , the fibro-cartilages anterior to the pre-pubic bones are united in the mesial line , anteriorly , so as to form one mass .
A similar condition is seen in younger specimens .
And if such a structure were sufficiently ossified to be preserved in a fossil state , it would closely reproduce the form of the anterior portion of Mr. Beclcles ' fossil , while the marks of lateral attachment in this part of the fossil correspond with the grooves for the last pair of abdominal ribs .
Therefore I regard this specimen as probably representing in the Iguanodon the pre-pubic bones of crocodiles , as well as the cartilage connecting them with the ribs , which Huxley terms the epi-pubis .
On its mode of attachment to the pubis I offer no suggestion , and there is no evidence available .
But since the bone in crocodiles and Ornithosaurs is attached in the region of the pectineal process , it is probable that it is connected with the extension of the pectineal process in Dinosaurs , which Professor O. C. Marsh has named the pre-pubis , and I would bring the pubic bone in the Ornithischia into harmony with the process in Crocodiles by suggesting that the distal part of the bone , like the anterior process , is entirely absent , so that only the sub-acetabular part which supports the pre-pubis remains in crocodiles ; and I suppose that if the pubis had been prolonged distally in the crocodile , it might have included the foramen for the obturator nerve .
If this interpretation of Dr. Mantell 's undetermined bone should be sustained , it would contribute a new and distinctive element to the Iguanodont pelvis , as remarkable as the pubic modification in an Ornithosaur or Crocodilian , and distinct from either .
The evidence from the fossil allies of crocodiles by no means demonstrates the nature of what 1 have termed the pre-pubic bones , though it shows that pre-pubic ossifications exist which cannot be confounded with the pubis , which may resemble the Crocodilian bone in form and in * * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 28 , PI .
8 .
1887 .
] On the Os Pubis Crocodilia .
241 being anterior in position to the acetabulum , and in similar isolation from the ilium .
In the current identification of this bone every consideration has been made subordinate to the embryological evidence as stated by Ratlike .
Yet although his excellent description unaccompanied by figures has been regarded as conclusive that the bone under discussion is the pubis , it seems to me necessary to reconsider the evidence before the matter can be thus settled .
The pelvis of a crocodile in that stage of development which corresponds with the middle period of incubation , if I rightly interpret the author 's meaning , is apparently more like that of an emu than is the adult animal in so far as the ischium and pubis are concerned ; while the relative shortness of the pubis is suggestively Iguanodont .
Rathke 's statement is as follows : the ilium , ischium , and pubis of each side unite to form a single unbroken cartilaginous mass .
The two ilia are short , rather broad , plates , as in the full-grown animal , and extend somewhat outward beyond the transverse processes of the sacral vertebras .
The ischia were also similar to those of the full-grown animal , consisting of tolerably thick plates , somewdiat expanded transversely at their median union , but are not so broad in proportion to their length as in the full-grown crocodile .
The pubis was somewhat shorter than the ischium , and in proportion to the other parts of the pelvis was much shorter than in later life , and not directed so much forward .
It extended downward nearly parallel to the ischium , almost along its whole length , only separated from it by a small interspace , and uniting with it at its upper end .
Ventrally the pubes are widely separated , and have the hinder small half of the connexion with the yolk-sac opening between them .
They preserved a similarity in shape to that of the mature crocodile , but the distal ends were not so wide in proportion to their length , and the other parts are not so slender as in later life .
And on a subsequent page the author again remarks , " The direction of the pubis in embryonic life remains different to that of the adult , but in the middle of the embryonic period there comes to be a division in the cartilaginous plate which hitherto had represented the ilium , ischium , and pubis .
" The early condition of the pelvic elements is so interesting in its parallelism of the ischium and pubis , and in the subsequent change of direction of the reputed pubis , that I applied to Professor W. K. Parker , P.R.S. , for help .
He at once sent me three examples of Crocodilus palustris , one about mature in the egg , another with the head 3 cm .
long , the body about 4'5 cm .
, and the tail about 7 cm .
, which was about half grown , and a smaller specimen about a third grown .
On examination I found that the pubes in the half-grown specimen were developed as in the adult , even to the fibrous extensions in front of the bones and behind them , and the only important difference was 242 On the Os Pubis Crocodilia .
[ Dec. 8 , the presence of the median notch between their anterior corners for the hinder half of the yolk sac and a direction rather less anterior .
In the smallest specimen the element which Rathke terms the pubis does not diverge anteriorly from the ischium to the same extent as in the adult , but the elements have the usual form and meet in the middle line , and the difference is unaccompanied by any divergence Pelvic cartilage of Crocodilus palustris , showing the relations of the pre-puhic plates to each other when one-third developed in the egg .
of plan in the pelvis .
The unsegmented cartilage is a different kind of evidence from the same cartilage divided into elements which become permanent as ossifications .
And I hold segmentation which occurs subsequently at a distance from the acetabulum , which isolates a bone from the pubic region of the pelvis and the ilium , to be evidence that the structure so separated is pre-pubic ; while the only other segmentation separates the ilium from the bone which supports the pre-pubis .
From this it follows that the pubis has never been distinct from the ischium , and is not developed distally in crocodiles .
The notch which defines the anterior part of the ischio-pubic bone corresponds with the great notch in the acetabulum of the mammalian pelvis , and that notch is situate between the ischium and pubis .
The cartilage which completes the anterior margin of the acetabulum seems to me to be inseparable from the ilium ; and to be continuous at its border with the fibrous sheath for the head of the femur .
I should attribute its existence to the absence of distal development of the pubis , because this would remove the usual pressure of the bone upon the anterior corner of the acetabulum , which stimulates ossification of the ilium .
If the interpretation thus made is morphologically sound , it has an important bearing upon the affinities and classification of the Crocodilia .

