I. " On the Structure of Rubies , Sapphires , Diamonds , and some other Minerals .
" By H1 .
C. SoRBY , F.R.S. , and P. J. BUTLER .
Received December 8 , 1868 .
[ Plate VII .
] For many years Mr. Butler has had the opportunity of examining very many rubies , sapphires , and diamonds , and has taken advantage of it in forming a most interesting collection , cut and mounted as microscopical objects .
He had very carefully studied the included fluid-cavities , and ascertained many curious facts .
Mr. Sorby had for some time paid much attention to the microscopical structure of crystals , and published a paper* in which he showed that their microscopical characters often serve to throw much light on the origin of rocks .
Mr. Butler therefore placed the whole of his collection in Mr. Sorby 's hands for careful examination , and it was decided that a paper should be written by the two conjointly ; and since Mr. Sorby had previously made many experiments in connexion with the expansion of liquids , as already described in a paper published in the Philosophical Magazinet , he took advantage of the opportunity to investiQuarterly Journal of Geol .
Soc. , 1858 , vol. xiv .
p. 453 .
O"n the Expansion of Water and Saline Solutions at High Temperatures , " August 1859 , vol. xviii .
p. 81 .
gate the law of the expansion of the very interesting fluid met with in the cavities of sapphire .
In describing the various facts , it will be well to consider them in relation to the following general principles:(1 ) The structure of the various minerals as mere microscopical objects .
( 2 ) The physical characters of the fluid-cavities , as throwing light on the origin of the minerals .
( 3 ) The influence of some included crystals on the structure of the surrounding mineral .
Sapphires .
By far the most interesting objects contained in sapphires are the fluidcavities .
Their occasional presence has been already noticed by Brewster , who met with one no less than about : inch long , two-thirds full of a liquid which expanded so as to fill the whole cavity when heated to 82 ?
F. ( 28 ?
C. ) .
He thought the liquid was less mobile than that described by him in topaz , and could not see a second liquid in the cavity .
Though many thousand sapphires have been examined by the authors , no such large cavity has been found ; but several have been met with about - ?
inch in diameter ; the greater number are far less , and some are very minute ; and they seem to contain only the liquid which expands so much when warmed .
The size of the included bubble varies much , according to the temperature .
At the ordinary heat of a room it is sometimes equal to one-half of the capacity of the cavity , whereas in other cases the cavity is quite fill .
This is especially the case with the very small cavities , and is to some extent due to the forced dilatation of the liquid .
But if we only take into consideration the larger cavities , the temperature required to expand the fluid so as to fill them certainly varies from 20 ?
to 32 ?
C. ( 68 ?
to 90 ?
F. ) , and this not only in different crystals , but also , to a less extent , in the same specimen .
As illustrations of the form of such cavities , we refer to Plate VII .
figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 , the extent to which they are magnified being shown in each case .
At the ordinary temperature the bubble in the cavity shown by fig. 1 is about one-half its diameter , but disappears entirely at 30 ?
C. By carefully measuring the size of the cavity in various positions , and comparing it with the diameter of the bubble at 0 ?
C. , it appears that the liquid expands from 100 to 152 when heated from 0 ?
to 30 ?
C. Fig. 2 is a tubular cavity , and shows in a very excellent manner the boiling of the liquid when it cools after having been made to expand to fill the whole space .
At the ordinary temperature the liquid occupies only about half the cavity ; but when heated in a water-bath to 32 ?
C. , it fills it entirely .
No bubble is formed until the temperature has fallen to 31 ?
; and then innumerable small bubbles are suddenly formed , which rise to the upper part and unite ; but instead of the liquid merely contracting by further cooling , it still continues to boil for some time , as represented in the drawing .
Two other large cavities * S6chting 's Einschliisse von Mineralien in krystallisirten Mineralien , p. 121 , who refers to Edin .
Journ. of Sc. , vol. vi .
p. 115 .
29 contained in the same specimen also behave in the same manner , and become full and suddenly boil at almost absolutely the same temperature , as that figured .
We need scarcely say that such cavities are extremely rare , and are very remarkable even when merely looked upon as microscopical objects , independently of their interest in connexion with physics .
Fig. 3 is a tubular cavity of more irregular form , and is interesting on account of there being two plates of the sapphire projecting into the cavity so as to nearlydivide it into three portions .
At the ordinary temperature these partitions prevent the passage of the bubble from one part to the other ; but by breathing on the object through a flexible tube , the slight increase of temperature expands the liquid so as to make the bubble small enough to pass into the next compartment ; and a repetition of the process causes it to pass into that at the other end .
Such plates projecting into the cavities are very common ; and it is requisite to pay attention to this fact , since otherwise they might easily be mistaken for crystals of some other substance included in the cavity , which , if they ever occur , must be extremely rare , since no decided case has come under our notice .
In examining sections of sapphire cut in a plane more or less parallel to the principal axis of the crystal , the double refraction is so strong that two images of every object lying at any depth below the surface are seen , in such a manner as to make them very confused .
This may be avoided by using polarized light without an analyzer , and arranging the plane of polarization so as to coincide with one of the axes of the crystal .
High powers may then be used with perfect definition ; and they show many small cavities , sometimes of most irregular forms , like fig. 4 ; and very often their sides are so inclined that they totally reflect transmitted light , and appear black and opake .
In some specimens most of the cavities have lost their fluid .
Besides fluid-cavities , there are many small crystals of other minerals included in sapphires , but not so many as in rubies .
The most striking are small plate-like crystals , often of triangular form , with one angle very acute .
They are very thin , and give the colours of thin plates so that when viewed by reflected light they look something like the scales from a butterfly .
Seen edgewise , they appear as miere black lines , and are arranged parallel to the three principal plan-es of the sapphire , as shown by fig. 5 .
These small crystals and the minute fluid-cavities cause many sapphires to appear milky by reflected , and somewhat brown by transmitted light ; and being arranged in zones related to the form of the crystal , they often show , as it were , lines of growth .
Ruibies .
Though the ruby and the sapphire are of course essentially the same mineral , yet their structure is in many respects as characteristically different as their colour .
The numtber of the fluid-cavities in rubies is far less , and the larger cavities are very rare , and only contain what appears to be water or a saline aqueous solution , as is shown by the amount of expansion when the specimen is heated to the temperature of boiling water .
Those containing a similar fluid to that included in sapphires do occasionally occur ; and when they are minute , they are extremely interesting , since they show the spontaneous movement of the bubbles to greater perfection than any mineral that has come under our notice .
This is perhaps to some extent due to the nature of the liquid , which is more mobile than the saline aqueous solutions contained in the cavities of the quartz of granite and syenite .
It is manifestly a molecular movement analogous to that seen in all matter when very minute particles are suspended in a liquid , so as to allow freedom of motion ; and the rapidity of the movement is certainly dependent on the size of the particles .
It is not seen to advantage if the diameter of the bubbles is more than 1- , of an inch ; but when it is about -I they move to and fro in the most surprising manner , with such rapidity that the eye can scarcely follow them .
The number of small crystals of other minerals included in rubies is often very great .
There must be at least four different kinds ; but it would be difficult to determine what minerals they all are .
Some are very well characterized octahedrons , variously modified ; and , as shown by fig. 5 , their planes are very generally arranged parallel to planes of the ruby , and to the small plate-like crystals already mentioned in describing sapphire .
These octahedrons have no influence on polarized light , and in general form and character correspond so closely with spinel that it seems very probable that they are that mineral .
For some time we thought they were angular fluid-cavities filled with liquid ; but when cut across in the sections they are clearly seen to be solid , though less hard than ruby .
Many of the other included crystals are of such very rounded forms that , if it were not for their action on polarized light , they might easily be mistaken for cavities filled with some fluid .
Most of these rounded crystals are colourless ; but some are of more or less dark orange-red colour , and are certainly not the same mineral as the colourless or the octahedral crystals ; and in all proba .
bility the thin and flat are a fourth kind .
Occasionally alternating plates of ruby with their axes in different positions gave rise to a beautiful series of coloured stripes when examined with polarized light .
Spinel .
The ruby spinels from Ceylon sometimes contain fluid-cavities which differ in a striking manner from those of any other mineral that has come under our notice .
One of these is shown in fig. 7 .
They are to a great extent filled with a yellow substance , indicated by the shading , which seems to be either a solid or a very viscous liquid .
It encloses transparent , sometimes well-defined cubic crystals , which have no action on polarized light ; transparent , prismatic , or plate-like crystals , which strongly depolarize it ; and black opake crystals , either in larger pieces or mere grains .
The rest of the cavity is in each case about one-third full of a colourless liquid , which seems to contract on the application of heat , because it passes entirely into 294 vapour , as occurred in some of the cavities in topaz described by Brewster .
In this change it must expand about six hundred times less than when water passes into steam .
Spinel also encloses crystals of several other minerals which we have not yet been able to identify .
Aquamarina .
The most striking peculiarity of this mineral is the occurrence of numbers of fluid-cavities containing two fluids and a vacuity , as shown by fig. 6 .
Emerald .
Some of the specimens which we have examined are so full of fluidcavities that they are only partially transparent .
They differ entirely from those already described , and contain only one liquid , which does not sensibly expand when warmed .
In all probability this is a strong saline aqueous solution , since the cavities also enclose cubic crystals , as shown by fig. 8 , which dissolve on the application of heat , and recrystallize on cooling .
On the whole , therefore , these cavities are very similar to those found in the quartz of some granites , and in some of the minerals found in blocks ejected from Vesuvius , as described in Mr. Sorby 's paper on the microscopical structure of crystals , already referred to .
Diamond .
Few , if any , of the specimens of diamond that have come under our notice contain objects similar to those which , in the opinion of G6ppertx ' , are evidence of its having been derived from vegetable remains , but we have been able to study to great advantage some facts which do not appear to have presented themselves to either Goppert or Brewster .
We have examined twenty-one objects similar to the two described by Brewster , in his paper in the Transactions of the Geological Societyt ; and this has enabled us to clear up some of the difficulties to which he alludes , and has led us to propose a different explanation .
He thought that the black specks , which were surrounded by a black cross when examined with polarized light , were minute cavities ; but at the same time he admitted that they were so small that it was not possible to say whether they contained a fluid or were empty .
Judging from what we have seen of such small examples , we consider it impossible to say whether they are cavities or enclosed crystals ; but fortunately we have met with several of such a size and character that it was quite easy to see that they were crystals .
Fig. 9 is a most excellent example of this fact .
The form is clearly that of a crystal , and it depolarizes light very powerfully .
Its refractive power must be very much less than that of diamond ; for the inclined planes totally reflect the transmitted light , and thus look quite black , as shown in the figure .
It is this circumstance which causes many smaller enclosed crystals to appear like mere black specks .
* " Ueber Einschlisse im Diamant , " Natuurkundige Verhandelingen , Haarlem , 1864 .
t 2nd series , vol. iii .
p. 455 .
Brewster has shown that the irregular depolarizing action of diamond is analogous to that of an irregularly hardened gum ; and this much interferes with the perfection of the black crosses seen round the enclosed crystals , and sometimes even neutralizes this action .
Still , as a general rule , a black cross is seen ; and , as described by Brewster , when examined by means of a plate of selenite which gives the blue of the first order , the tints of the sectors in the line of its principal axis are depressed in the same manner as when such a black cross is produced by the compression of glass-thus proving that the enclosed crystals have exerted a pressure on the surrounding diamond .
We , however , do not imagine that the crystals have increased in size , but that probably they have prevented the uniform contraction of the diamond , which , as already mentioned , must have been very irregular , even where no such impediment was present .
A few of the crystals enclosed in rubies give rise to similar black crosses , as shown by fig. 11 ; and we are informed by Professor Zirkel that his brother-inlaw Professor Vogelsang has prepared a thin section of a specimen of partially devitrified glass , which also shows black crosses round the enclosed crystals .
Brewster suggested that this phenomenon in diamond was due to the elastic force of an enclosed gas or liquid , and compared it with what is seen in the case of some cavities in amber .
We , however , find that the optical character of the crosses seen round the undoubted cavities in amber is the very reverse of that in the case of diamond , and cannot be explained by the mere mechanical action of an included elastic substance , but is similar to the change to a crystalline state which has occurred over the whole external surface , and on both sides of cracks passing from it inwards .
The optical properties , however , are not the only evidence of contraction round crystals enclosed in diamond ; for actual cracks are often seen to proceed from them .
These present the striped appearance shown in fig. 10 , owing to more or less perfect total reflection from their waved surface .
The same kind of phenomenon may be seen in sapphire , and still better in spinel , as shown by figs. 12 and 13 .
Sometimes there is a system of radiating cracks nearly in one plane , terminating in a transverse crack which surrounds the whole , as in fig. 12 ; and in other cases there are various complicated wavy cracks in different planes , as in fig. 13 .
There seems to be some conniexion between this structure and the nature of the included minerals ; for round some kinds it is very common , but round others very rare or quite absent ; and it appears probable that it may be referred to unequal contraction in cooling from a high temperature ; and , if so , the results would necessarily depend on a variety of circumstances .
Now that attention has been directed to it , it will probably be found to be a very common peculiarity of certain classes of minerals , and serve to throw a good deal of light on their origin .
Crystals surrounded by radiating cracks on a much larger scale have 296 been observed by Mr. David Forbes* , and may , we think , be explained in a similar manner .
The crystals formed in blowpipe beads kept hot for some time over the lamp , also furnish good illustrations of these facts .
Phosphate of zirconia is deposited in cubes from a borax bead to which much microcosmic salt has been added ; and when examined with the microscope whilst cooling , cracks like those described in diamond and spinel are seen to be formed round many of the crystals , which are evidently due to the crystals contracting less than the surrounding material .
On the contrary , the long prisms of borate of baryta deposited from solution in borax are seen to separate from the borax on cooling , and to be filled with transverse cracks , like those in schorl enclosed in quartz , which is clearly owing to their contracting more than the borax .
Fluid-cavities in general .
Before discussing the nature of fluid-cavities in connexion with the origin of the various minerals , we think it best to describe the remarkable properties of the liquid included in the sapphire , and to point out what it seems to be .
Brewster , in his paper on the fluid-cavities in topaz*^ , says that the more expansible liquid contained in them expands one-fourth its size , when heated from 50 ?
to 80 ?
F , or thirty-one and a quarter times as much as water ; and , as already stated , he found that the fluid in sapphire expands about one-half when heated to 82 ?
F. Though this amount of expansion is very remarkable , yet , when the relative expansion at various temperatures is examined , it will be seen to be still more remarkable .
Very fortunately the tubular cavity in sapphire , shown by fig. 2 , is most admirably fitted for experiment .
Mere inspection shows that its general diameter is very uniform ; and that it is really so can be proved by causing the liquid to pass from one end to the other ; for at 17 ?
C. the length of the column of liquid was -25of an inch , whether it was at the end A or B. The total effective length of the cavity is -4atr .
The specimen inelosing this cavity was fastened to a piece of glass , and this was fixed in beakler containing water , supported so that the cavity was in the focus of the microscope under a low power .
The temperature was raised very slowly , and was maintained for some minutes at each particular degree at which it was thought desirable to measure the volume of the liquid ; and this was usually repeated over and over again when the heat was both rising and falling , so as to obtain as accurate a result as possible .
In making the measurements with the micrometer , care was taken to ' allow for the tapering ends of the cavity and the curved surface of the liquid .
The results are given in degrees Centigrade .
Though the expansion below 30 ?
was very great , compared with that of any other known substances except liquid carbonic acid and nitrous oxide , when the temperature rose above 30 ?
it was so very extraordinary that it was not until after having performed the experiment over and over again that Mr. Sorby felt confidence in the results .
This will not be thought surprising when we state that from 31 ?
to 32 ?
the apparent expansion of the liquid is no less than one-fourth of the bulk it occupies at 31 ?
; the length of the column increasing for that single degree from io4to -50 inch .
This is about 780 times as great as the expansion of water would be , and even 69 times as much as that of air and permanent gases .
It was not possible to ascertain the amount of expansion above 32 ?
C. , because the cavity was quite filled at that temperature .
If the expansion increase at the same increased rate , the liquid would soon occupy several times as much space ; but it seems very probable that before then it would pass into the state of gas .
At all events it appears as if this enormous rate of expansion indicated a close approach to a fresh physical condition .
The following Table gives the results of the experiments ; and it has been found , by drawing them as a curve , that their general relations indicate that there cannot be any serious error ; but at the same time , considering all the circumstances , they must only be looked upoin as tolerably good approximations to the truth .
Temperature .
Volume .
t C ... ... ... ... ... . .
100 17 ... ... . .
1(9 20 ... ... ... ... . .
11.3 25 ... ... ... ... ... .
122 28 ... ... ... ... ... .
130 29 ... ... ... ... ... .
139 30 ... ... ... ... ... .
150 31 ... ... ... ... ... .
174 32 ... ... ... ... ... .
217 The apparent expansion of the liquid is doubtless to some extent increased by the condensation of the gas , as the space occupied by it is diminished .
When in the highly expanded condition this liquid appears to be remarkably elastic .
Berthelot has shown , in his paper on forced dilatation* , that the force with which liquids adhere to the interior of a glass tube is sufficient to prevent their contraction to the normal volume , if they have been heated so as to expand and quite fill the tube , and then cooled to a temperature below that requisite ti fill it .
This fact must always be borne in mind in studying fluid-cavities , and explains why the bubbles , as it were , hesitate to return , and then make their appearance with a sudden start .
Such a forced dilatation is very remarkable in the case described ; for though it was requisite to raise the temperature to 32 ?
C. to fill the cavity , no vacuity was formed until it fell to 31 ?
; and therefore it seems as if the force of cohesion were sufficient to stretch it to considerably ?
Annals de Chimie s6r .
3 .
t. xxx .
p. 232 .
298 more than its normal bulk , even perhaps to the extent of one-fifth or onefourth .
Moreover , in the case shown in fig. 1 .
, the liquid expanded so as to fill the cavity at about 30 ?
C. ; and yet it can be heated up to 42 ?
without bursting it , though , even if the expansion did not continue to increase , and were the same for each degree as from 31 ?
to 32 ?
, the normal volume would be about four times that of the cavity , -which in any case seems only to be explained by supposing that its elasticity is most remarkably great , more like that of a gas than of a liquid .
There was no decided evidence of its passing into a gaseous state , as does occur when cavities contain a less amount of liquid .
Simmler * has shown that the physical properties of the liquid in topaz , as observed by Brewster , agree more nearly with those of liquid carbonic acid than with those of any other known substance .
Dana , in his 'Mineralogy ' ( 5th edition , 1868 , p. 761 ) , calls it Brewsterlinite , and , says that its composition is unknown .
The facts at Simmler 's command were not in all respects satisfactory-since the amount of expansion given by Brewster was from 10 ?
to 26 ?
'7 C. , whereas that of liquid carbonic acid observed by Thilorier was from 0 ?
to 30 ?
, and , as shown above , the expansion increases so much as the temperature rises that the average rate for 1 ?
is very indefinite .
The only reliable method is therefore to compare the expansion between equal degrees of temperature .
According to Thiloriert liquid carbonic acid , when heated from 0 ?
to 30 ?
, expands from 100 to 145 .
One of the experiments described above showed that the liquid in sapphire expands from 100 to 152 ; and the other from 100 to 150 , which is the most reliable .
This agrees so closely with the expansion of liquid carbonic acid , that the difference might easily be due to a slight error in the thermometers .
The expansion of ordinary liquids is notto be compared with it , nor is that of liquid sulphurous acid .
Dr. Franklanil has kindly ascertained this fact , with special reference to the case in question , and found that from 0 ?
to 32 ?
C. the expansion was only from 100 to 104'36 instead of to 217 .
According to AndreeffJ the expansion of liquid nitrous oxide is not much inferior to that of liquid carbonic acid , being , from 15 ?
to 20 ?
, '00872 for each degree , which differs decidedly from that of the liquid in sapphires .
The occurrence of nitrous oxide in minerals is also so very much more improbable , that , on " the whole , it seems as if we should be justified in concluding provisionally that it is liquid carbonic acid , which , like water , should therefore be classed amongst natural liquid mineral substances .
Brewster has shown ?
that when cavities in topaz contain less than onethird of their volume of the expansible liquid , it does not expand when heated , but passes entirely into the state of a compressed vapour .
Un " Pogg .
Ann. vol. cv .
p. 460 .
t Gmelin 's Handbook of Chemistry , Cavendish Society 's Translation , vol. i. p. 225 .
+ Liebig 's Ann. vol. cx .
p. 1 . ?
Trans Roy .
Soc. Edin .
vol. x. p. 25 .
fortunately he does not state the temperature at which this occurs , nor does he seem to have tried to ascertain the exact limit of the volume , which must , however , lie between one-half and one-third .
Cagniard-Latour * found that when ether and other liquids sealed up in small strong tubes , with a certain space left empty , were heated , they expanded very much , and suddenly passed into the state of vapour .
The temperature , pressure , and volume at which this change took place varied very considerably .
Ether expanded to nearly double its volume , and passed into vapour at about 200 ?
C. , with an elastic force of 37 or 38 atmospheres .
Alcohol expanded to about three times its volume , and passed into vapour at about 260 ?
C. , with an elastic force of 119 atmospheres ; whereas water appeared to expand to nearly four times its volume , and required a temperature near that at which zinc melts ( 328 ?
C. , Daniel ) .
When in this highly expanded state , the liquids were very mobile , and seemed much more compressible than under other circumstances ; for they did not burst the tube , if too much had been sealed up in it , until after their normal volume would have been decidedly greater than its capacity .
No one could fail to see that these phenomena have much in common with what occurs at a lower temperature in the case of the liquid enclosed in sapphire , and that they are of great importance in connexion with the origin of fluid-cavities .
Since they become full of liquid at a comparatively low temperature , it was not unreasonable to suppose that the minerals in which they occur must have been formed where the heat was scarcely above that of the atmosphere ; but these facts seem to show that the occurrence of such fluid-cavities is quite reconcilable with a very high temperature ; for it is obvious that if , at a great depth below the surface , heated , highly compressed yaseous carbonic acid were enclosed in growing crystals , it might condense on .
cooling so as to more or less completely fill the cavities with the liquid acid .
If the same principles could be applied in the case of water , we should be led to infer that it could not exist in a liquid state at a higher temperature than that of dull redness , corresponding closely with what Mr. Sorby deduced from the fluid-cavities in some volcanic rocks .
In that case , according to Cagniard-Latour , the liquid when condensed would occupy only one-fourth part of the cavity , and it would scarcely be likely to contain any fixed salt in solution ; whereas the fluid-cavities in the minerals of ejected blocks are often two-thirds full of what seems to have been a supersaturated solution of alkaline chlorides .
The phenomena now under consideration should certainly be borne in mind in studying volcanic action ; and it is possible that some cavities now containing water may have been formed by the enclosure of very highly compressed steam .
In some cases the requisite pressure would be enormous , and other facts seem to show that it was more generally caught up in a liquid state .
The cavities in emerald are very interesting in connexion with this subject , and also furnish strong evidence against the opinion that the liquid was not present when the crystals were formed , but penetrated into the fluid-cavities at a subsequent period , and either filled vacant spaces , or removed and replaced the material of glass cavities , as suggested by Vogelsang I. In the specimens which we have examined , each of the cavities contains what is no doubt an aqueous saline solution , and , as shown by fig. 8 , one or more cubic crystals , probably chloride of potassium , which dissolve on the application of heat , and are deposited again on cooling .
These cavities are thus analogous to those met with in the quartz of some granite , and in the minerals of blocks ejected from Vesuvius ; and it seems difficult , if not impossible , to explain them except by supposing that a strong saline solution was caught up by the mineral at the time of its formation .
In some cases the amount of such saline matter is so great in comparison to the liquid , that a high temperature would be requisite to make it all dissolve .
It also seems probable that , if water could penetrate into such crystals , it would soon be lost when they were kept dry .
This certainly occurs in some soluble salts , especially those containing combined water , and in some minerals of loose texture ; but we have never seen evidence of it when fluid-cavities are completely enclosed in hard and dense substances like quartz or emerald .
Though in some instances the size of the bubbles does not bear a uniform relation to that of the cavities , yet in many cases the general proportion is very similar in each specimen ; and the exceptions can easily be explained by supposing that occasionally small bubbles of gas were caught up along with the water , or that there was some variation in either temperature or pressure during the growth of the crystal ; all of which conditions were discussed in Mr. Sorby 's paper already referred to .
We have not had the opportunity of studying many examples of cavities which contain two fluids , probably water and liquid carbonic acid , and therefore forbear to say much about them .
According to Brewstert the temperature at which those in topaz become full corresponds very closely with what we have observed in the case of sapphire , so that the carbonic acid might have been enclosed either as a highly dilated liquid , or as a highly compressed gas ; but since the other liquid has deposited crystals which dissolve on the application of heat+ , it seems most probable that the water was caught up in a liquid state , sometimes perhaps holding a considerable amount of carbonic acid in solution as a gas .
On the whole , therefore , the various facts described in this paper seem to show that ruby , sapphire , spinel , and emerald were formed at a moderately high temperature , under so great a pressure that water might be present in a liquid state .
The whole structure of diamond is so peculiar that it can scarcely be looked upon as positive evidence of a high temperature , though not at all opposed to that supposition .
The absence of fluid-cavities containing water or a saline solution does not by any means prove that water * Philosophie der Geologic und mikroskopisehe Gesteinsstudien , ( Bonn , 1867)pp .
155 , 196 .
1Trans .
Roy .
Soc. Edin .
vol. x. p. 1 et seq. .
See Brewstcr 's paper , Phil. Mag. 1847 , vol. xxxi .
p. 497 , z 0Mr .
Huuggins on Solar Pronzinences .
C)~~~~~~~~~~ was entirely absent , because the fact of its becoming enclosed in crystals depends so much on their nature .
At the same time the occurrence of fluid-cavities containing what seems to be merely liquid carbonic acid is scarcely reconcilable with the presence of more than a very little water in either a liquid or gaseous form .
We may here say that we do not agree with those authors who maintain that the curved or irregular form of the fluid-cavities is proof of the minerals having been in a soft state , since analogous facts are seen in the case of crystals deposited from solution .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE VII .
Figs 1 .
&amp; 2 .
Fluid-cavities in sapphire ; magnified 20 linear .
Fig. 3 .
Fluid-cavity in sapphire , partially divided by plates of sapphire ; mag .
50 .
Fig. 4 .
Branched fluid-cavity in sapphire ; mag .
50 .
Fig. 5 .
Crystal of spinel ?
enclosed in ruby ; mag .
50 .
Fig. 6 .
Cavity in aquamarina , with two fluids ; mag .
150 .
Fig. 7 .
Cavity in ruby spinel ; mag .
100 .
Fig. 8 .
Fluid-cavity in emerald , with soluble crystals ; mag .
200 .
Fig , 9 .
Crystal enclosed in diamond , surrounded by a black cross , as seen with polarized light ; mag .
100 .
Fig. 10 .
Crystal enclosed in diamond , with a crack proceeding from it ; mag .
100 .
Fig. 11 .
Crystal enclosed in ruby , surrounded by a black cross , seen by polarized light ; mag .
75 .
Figs. 12 &amp; 13 .
Crystals in ruby spinel , surrounded by various cracks ; mag .
50 .
Sorby &amp; Ja Baer -roc .
J oI.o 3c oU,.XiZi Plae a 1Y .
L~~ 11 C1I , 3 .
, 6 .
K\_"~ '/ - &amp; H , C Sofby yael .
V.H.Wesiey Ith .
0 M.,4 , O gU , 0 1 , 00.,3 O0I0 " O ?
O ' a ; o 61 -PI 1.O .
11. .
12 W.Pe.t , izTurp .
-11~5- , wftil Ai ii sXI I : I : I ift Ik.1 .
'k A1 8 .
~~ ~ , t WAt Ir &gt; I.I ( Whij~:ir L ; " :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , "

