122 Lesions in Monkey 's Brain .
Phymosoma varians .
[ May 16 , VI .
" Appendix to Paper* on Descending Degenerations following Lesions in the Gyrus marginalis and Gyrus fornicatus .
in Monkeys .
" By E. P. France .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received April 22 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) This appendix contains an account ( 1 ) of the degenerations which have resulted from lesions of the external motor cortex alone ; ( 2 ) of the degenerations which have resulted from lesions involving both this and the gyrus marginalis ; and ( 3 ) a comparison between the respective degenerations resulting from lesions of the external motor surface and of the gyriis marginalis .
The results tend to show the existence of a differentiation in the pyramidal tract , the whole area of which is involved in degeneration when both external and mesial motor areas have been removed , whereas after removal of one portion only of the motor area , a corresponding part only of the pyramidal tract area degenerates .
Vll .
" On Pliymosoma varians .
" By Arthur E. Shipley , M.A. , Fellow and Lecturer of Christ 's College , Cambridge , and Demonstrator of Comparative Anatomy in the University .
Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) The following observations on Ph varians were made on a number of specimens brought from the Bahama Islands by Mr. W. F. R. Weldon , of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
I am not only indebted to Mr. Weldon for the material of this article , but for very valuable suggestions and assistance while carrying on my investigations .
The Phymosoma is found embedded in soft coral rock .
The length of the fully extended specimens averages 5 cm .
, the greatest diameter about 5 mm. The introvert is equal in length to .the rest of the body .
The Head.\#151 ; The head bears a crown of tentacles , which are always equal in number , usually eighteen ; they are arranged in a horse-shoe shaped lophophore , which is dorsal to the mouth .
The ends of this horse-shoe are confluent with those of a vascular lower lip , which is also horse-shoe shaped ; the crescentiform opening between these two * Read March 27 , 1889 .
1889 .
] On Phymosoma varians .
123 structures is the mouth .
The space included in the cavity of the tentacular horse-shoe\#151 ; the representative of the pre-oral lobe\#151 ; is covered with a peculiar pigmented epithelium , curiously wrinkled .
This epithelium is continuous with the brain , and from it two sensory pits descend into that organ .
The tentacles are short , the outer surface is grooved and ciliated , the inner surface covered with a pigmented epithelium , similar in character to that covering the preoral lobe .
The introvert immediately behind the head is smooth for about 2 mm. At the posterior end of this region a thin but very extensible collar is attached .
The anterior end of the collar is free , and in specimens with the introvert inverted , completely covers the head .
Behind the collar the introvert is surrounded by rings of hooks .
Each hook is secreted by a multicellular papilla , and the ring rests upon a cushion formed by circular muscle fibres .
Behind each ring of hooks is a parallel ring of sense organs , described below , and underneath each ring is a circular nerve , continuous with the ventral cord .
The Ectoderm.\#151 ; The ectoderm covering the lower lip and the outside of the tentacles is ciliated , that covering the pre-oral lobe and the inside of the tentacle is crowded with brown pigment granules .
The ectoderm of the rest of the body is one cell thick .
It is curiously vaulted , leaving irregularly scattered spaces between it and the outside of the circular muscles , in which a nutritive fluid probably circulates .
On its outer surface the ectoderm secretes a thick cuticle .
From time to time some of the ectodermal cells are modified to form the skin papillas .
These are in the form of double cups , the inner lining of which consists of very large cells crowded with yellow spherules .
The cup opens to the exterior by a minute pore .
These papillae are particularly large and numerous at the extremities of the trunk and on the dorsal surface .
Those of the introvert differ from those on the trunk by the possession of a chitinous ring round their orifice .
General Anatomy.\#151 ; There is nothing peculiar in the general anatomy of this Gephyrean as seen by the naked eye .
Of the four retractors , the two ventral ones are much longer than the two dorsal , and at the base of the former is the generative organ .
The intestine is supported by a spindle muscle , as well as by a muscle which passes from the ventral body wall to the anterior end of the visceral loop .
There are about twenty-two longitudinal muscles in the middle of the trunk .
The body cavity is lined by a flat epithelium , which is never ciliated .
The Skeletal Tissue.\#151 ; 1 have given this name to a peculiar form of tissue which is found in the collar and tentacular crown of Phymosoma .
The cells composing this tissue are roundish , with large nuclei .
The protoplasm of the cells is traversed by numerous fine lines , and both it and the nuclei readily take up staining fluid .
The cells are not so closely packed as to lose their shape .
124 Mr. A. E. Shipley .
[ May 16 , This tissue forms a ring in the lower lip , external to the vascular spaces in this region ; it also sends extensions into the tentacles . .
It seems to support and stiffen these structures , and from its position serves as a firm hold for the insertion of the retractor muscles of the introvert , which are attached just behind it .
The Alimentary Canal.\#151 ; The oesophagus is lined with ciliated epithelium , continuous with that of the lower lip and the tentacles .
Its cavity is diminished by numerous ridges , the grooves between which are continuous with the grooves on the tentacles .
The intestine forms about fifteen coils ; it is usually full of fine sand , and appears to be partly ciliated , though there is no ciliated groove as in Sipunculus .
The rectum is straight , and its cavity is also occluded by ridges .
The anus is surrounded both by a sphincter muscle and by a number of radiating fibres .
The Vascular System.\#151 ; There are two kinds of blood corpuscles present in Phymosoma .
The larger kind occurs in the body cavity : they are oval in outline , with a spherical nucleus .
The smaller kind is found in a closed series of spaces usually termed the vascular system .
This space may be described as consisting of three parts , all communicating with one another .
The first of these lies in the lower lip , and consists of a number of channels anastomosing with one another , the interspaces being occupied by the skeletal tissue described above .
These channels open at their dorsal ends into the second series , which forms a space at the base of the lophophore .
This gives off a number of spaces , which pass into the tentacles and open in the middle ventral line into the dorsal vessel .
This is a muscular sac which is attached to the dorsal surface of the oesophagus between the retractor muscles of the right and left side .
It serves as a reservoir , into which the corpusculated fluid is driven when the introvert is retracted and the tentacles are flaccid .
By the contraction of its wal l the blood is forced into the lower lip and lophophore , and these organs are then dilated .
The whole is lined by a flat epithelium .
The Nephridia.\#151 ; Each nephridium consists of two parts , the bladder and the true secreting part .
Both these parts are well supplied with muscle fibres and are consequently very contractile , so that their shape varies greatly in different specimens .
The bladder , which is the anterior half , is attached to the body wall by mesenteries , the secreting part is free .
The bladder opens to the exterior by a circular mouth , and to the interior or body cavity by a ciliated opening in shape like a flattened funnel .
The lumen of the secretory part is broken up into a number of side chambers , which may be readily described by comparing them to the air-chambers in the interior of a frog 's lung .
The whole is lined by a very peculiar epithelium .
The cells composing this are columnar in shape , with their nuolei at the base .
They are crowded with minute spherical granules , and many On Pliymosoma varians .
1889 .
] of them have at tlieir free end a bubble or vesicle in which these granules have accumulated .
From time to time these vesicles break off and lie in the lumen both of the secretory part and of the bladder , and are no doubt extruded from the body .
The whole process is very like the excretion of milk in a mammary gland .
The only other structures , besides these vesicles , found in the lumen of the nephridia sire the generative cells , ova and spermatozoa ; it is remarkable that the ccelomic corpuscles never enter them .
The Nervous System.\#151 ; The brain is a bilobed organ lying immediately beneath the pre-oral lobe , with the ectoderm of which it is continuous .
The ventral and posterior surfaces project into a blood sinus which is .situated in the neighbourhood of the junction of the lopliophoral vessels with the dorsal vessel .
The ganglia in the brain form a cap on the anterior , dorsal , and posterior surfaces , enclosing the fibrous tissue which comes to the surface of the brain ventrally .
The ganglion cells are mostly small and bipolar , but on the posterior surface are a certain number of unipolar giant ganglion cells , with a diameter at least four times that of the smaller cells .
The brain gives off three pairs of nerves ; at the side a pair of circumoesophageal commissures which pass round the oesophagus and fuse to form the ventral nerve cord .
This has no trace of a double origin or of segmentally arranged ganglia , but from time to time it gives off a nerve which passes into the body wall and there splits into a right and left nerve ; these reunite in the dorsal middle line and so form a nerve ring .
These nerve rings are especially conspicuous in the skin of the introvert .
The second pair of nerves given off from the brain pass into the base of the lophophore , and give off a branch into each tentacle , where it lies immediately beneath the ciliated groove .
The third pair , which arise nearest the median line , pass to supply the skin of the pre-oral lobe .
The sense organs are of two kinds : ( i ) sensory pits in the brain , ( ii ) ectodermal Sense organs in the introvert .
The former are two pits which open on to the pre-oral lobe , and end blindly in an expanded vesicle in the substance of the brain .
They are lined with columnar epithelium , which at the inner end is crowded with dark-brown pigment .
Their lumen sometimes contains a clot .
The latter are groups of ectodermal cells , which have increased in size and at their outer end are provided with short stiff processes which project above the general level .
These are gathered together into a small brush by a chitinous ring which surrounds their base .
These organs occur in rings at the base of the rings of hooks in the introvert .
The Reproductive Organs.\#151 ; Phymosoma varians is dioecious .
In both sexes the reproductive organs form fimbriated ridges which are attached to the bases of the ventral retractor muscles , and are continuous across the interspace between these two muscles , ventral to Mr. 0 .
Thomas .
[ May 16 , the nerve cord .
The cells forming these ridges are continuous with the peritoneal lining of the body wall , and in this region the elsewhere flattened epithelium has become modified to form the ova in the female and the mother-cells of the spermatozoa in the male .
The ridge is thickened at its free end , and here the more mature generative cells are found .
When ripe these dehisce into the body cavity in which they live for some time and increase in size .
The ova found in the ccelomic fluid are oval in outline , their nucleus is very large , and they are surrounded by a thick zona radiata .
Ho ripe spermatozoa are found in the coelom , but their mother-cells exist in various stages of division .
Conclusions.\#151 ; The more important contributions to the anatomy of the Gephyrea contained in the foregoing Abstract are the descriptions of ( i ) the head with the extensible collar , ( ii ) the skeletal structures , ( iii ) the minute anatomy of the nephridia , and ( iv ) the histology of the nervous system and sense organs .
The most important conclusions to be drawn from these facts seem , in my opinion , to confirm those systematic writers who assign Phoronis a position in the immediate neighbourhood of the unarmed Gephyrea .
In addition to the points upon which they lay stress in the general anatomy of these forms , I would point to the close similarity in structure and position of the skeletal tissues in both groups , and the possible homology between the collar in Phym and the extensible calyx which surrounds the head in Phormis , VIII .
" On the Dentition of Or By Oldfield Thomas , Natural History Museum .
Communicated by Dr. Gunther , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1889 .
[ Plate 2 .
] At the meeting of the 9th of February , 1888 , * Mr. E. B. Poulton communicated to this Society the first discovery of the presence of teeth in Ornithorhynchus , a discovery which naturally awakened extreme interest throughout the scientific world .
This first account was afterwards elaborated into a long and excellent descriptionf of the form , structure , and development of the teeth , and their relationship to the horny plates ( or " cornnles , " as they may be conveniently termed ) which form the functional masticatory organs of the adult animal .
Apart from the valuable histological descriptions , the conclusions put forward in Mr. Poulton 's paper may be briefly epitomised as follows:\#151 ; * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , 1888 , p. 353 .
f ' Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
BoL/ vol. 29,1888 , p. 9 .

