536 The Density of Niton ( " Radium Emanation " ) and the Disintegration Theory .
By Dr. R Whytlaw Gray and Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , University College , London .
( Received December 13 , 1910\#151 ; Read January 12 , 1911 .
) According to the disintegration theory of radioactive change , a definite number of atoms of radium break up per second , each evolving an a-particle which ultimately becomes a helium atom , leaving behind lighter molecules which form the gas known as " radium emanation/ ' or niton .
The identity of the a-particle after it has lost its electric charge with the helium atom has been convincingly proved by Rutherford and Geiger ; and measurements of the volume of helium evolved from niton by Ramsay and Soddy , and from radium in equilibrium with its disintegration-products by Dewar , render it exceedingly probable that in each successive change from radium to radium D only one a-particle is expelled per atom .
If , then , the view is held that the radium atom on disintegration to niton splits up into two parts only , one of which is the a-particle , then the atomic weight of the resulting niton is 226*4\#151 ; 4 = 222*4 .
On the other hand , it may be supposed that the disintegrating radium atom splits up into three or more parts ; helium , and two other bodies of higher atomic weight , if three parts .
On account of its greater mass , the heavier particle might be expelled below the critical velocity necessary for the formation of ions in the air , and might itself be non-radioactive ; if this were the case , its presence in a solid state would almost certainly escape detection .
There is no direct evidence against such a supposition , for the atomic weights of none of the products of the disintegration of radium have been determined .
Experiment alone can settle this question of the true atomic weight of niton ; but on account of the exceedingly small volume of this gas obtainable from a relatively large weight of radium , the experiment is by no means easy .
A number of investigators have sought to obtain the atomic or molecular weight by comparing the rates of diffusion of " emanation " and air or nitrogen .
Pierre Curie and Danne found ... ... .
176* Bumstead and Wheeler " ... ... ... ... ... 180f * 6 Comptes Rendus/ 1903 , vol. 137 , p. 1314 .
t ' Amer .
J. Sci./ 1904 , p. 97 .
Density of Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
537 Rutherford and Miss Brooks found ... 176* Makower " ... .
aloof Chaumont " ... .
70\#151 ; lOOJ Perkins compared the rate of diffusion with that of mercury vapour , also a monatomic gas , and found 235.S Lastly , Debierne made use of Bunsen 's method of causing the gas to issue through a minute perforation in a diaphragm of platinum , and as the result of a very concordant -set of experiments , obtained the number 220 for the molecular weight.|j But none of these methods , however ingenious , can be accepted as conclusive , for the conditions are so different from those usually obtaining in ordinary work that no certain inference can be drawn .
In 19091T we attempted the solution of this problem in another way .
We found it possible to determine the critical and boiling points of niton with less than one-tenth of a cubic millimetre of gas .
Assuming it to belong to the inactive series of gases , we plotted the critical and boiling points of argon , krypton , and xenon against their atomic weights , and found these points to lie almost exactly on a slightly curved line .
Extrapolation showed that for the emanation to lie either on the line connecting the boiling points or the critical points , it must possess an atomic weight approximating to 176 .
It was quite impossible to bring the value 2224 anywhere near the extrapolated curves ; but it must be observed that , as the curvature is slight , a small error in the constants of argon , krypton , or xenon might alter the curvature in the reverse direction , and so make more probable the higher atomic weight .
We realised at the time that the results could not be accepted as certain , and that the only criterion must be the determination of the density of the gas .
It is , however , remarkable that all the determinations quoted , with the exception of Makower 's and Chaumont 's , point to an atomic weight either of 176 or of 222 ; these are the tabular atomic weights of the immediate follower of xenon in the periodic table , on the one hand , and of the next member on the other .
The members of the series are :\#151 ; Helium .
Neon .
Argon .
Krypton .
Xenon .
I. II .
4 20 40 83 130 176 222 * ' Trans. E. S. Canada , ' 1901 .
t ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1905 .
J ' Le Radium , ' 1909 , vol. 6 , p. 106 .
S ' Amer .
J. Sci. , ' 1908 , p. 461 .
|| ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1910 , vol. 150 , p. 1740 .
IT ' Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 93 , p. 1073 .
538 Dr. Gray and Sir W. Ramsay .
Density of [ Dec. 13 , To determine the density of a gas , four separate measurements are essential\#151 ; the volume , the temperature , the pressure , and the weight of the gas .
In the present case , however , the problem was simpler , for the volume of niton at normal temperature and pressure accumulating in a given time from a known weight of radium is a constant and invariable quantity , and has been repeatedly measured .
In 1908 Rutherford found this volume to be 0*61 cu .
mm. per gramme of radium ; Debierne in 1909 obtained the value 0*58 cu .
mm. , and these results were confirmed shortly afterwards by our own work , * which gave 0*601 cu .
mm. Rutherford has been able to calculate this constant from the result of his beautiful experiment in which he actually counted the number of a-partieles emitted from a known weight of radium , and the value found was 0*585 cu .
mm. It may therefore be taken as certain that the error in this constant does not exceed 5 per cent. For our experiments this figure is unessential , since the actual volume of emanation from the total radium at our disposal had been measured .
The problem which we have attacked is the determination of the weight of emanation evolved in a given time from our total quantity of radium .
The radium bromide solution from which the niton for these experiments was drawn was contained in three bulbs sealed on to a Topler pump .
The maximum measured quantity of emanation which can be extracted with the pump from the solutions in the bulbs is 0*127 cu .
mm. By collecting the gas every eight days , the yield was only 76 per cent , of this quantity , so that the total volume .
obtainable for weighing scarcely exceeded 0*1 cu .
mm. The weight of this volume , on the assumption that the atomic weight is 222 , is less than 1/ 1400 mgrm .
It is therefore evident that in order to weigh this minute quantity of gas vrith sufficient exactness , a balance turning with a load not greater than 1/ 100,000 mgrm .
was a necessity .
This seems an almost inconceivably small weight to attempt to measure , when one considers that the limit of sensibility of a delicate assay balance is about 1/ 200 mgrm .
, and that even the Nernst balance will hardly turn with a load smaller than 1/ 2000 mgrm.f The successful construction of a balance capable of weighing these very minute quantities has been* accomplished by Dr. B. D. Steele and Mr. Grant , of the University of Melbourne ; thanks to their skill and ingenuity , they have constructed an instrument 100 times more sensitive than the Nernst micro-balance .
Steele and Grant have published an account of their * Loc .
cit. , p. 1082 .
t As we shall have to deal with very small weights , it is advisable to adopt a new unit ; this is conveniently the millionth of a milligramme .
The abbreviation here used for this is fimgrm .
1910 .
] Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
539 Balance , * and they have shown that a sensibility of 1/ 250,000 mgrm .
could be attained .
After several trials we have been successful in constructing a similar instrument and in determining the density of the radium emanation with its help .
It is only fair to state , however , that Dr. Brill , working in the laboratory of University College , improved the Nernst balance , so that it turned with 1/ 10,000 mgrm .
The subject was followed up later by Dr. Gwyer , also at University College , who introduced the hydrostatic method of determining small weights , the buoyancy of a small bulb containing a known weight of air being altered by the adjustment of the pressure in the balance case , constructed so that a vacuum could be made .
We then corresponded with Dr. Steel , who was so obliging as to inform us cf the principle and construction of his balance , then in an experimental stage .
The paper published by Steel and Grant renders a minute description of our balance unnecessary ; but our balances ( for several were constructed ) differ in some small respects from theirs .
The beam , for example , was made by placing thin silica rods in grooves carefully ruled on a smooth plane block of graphite , and then fusing the contiguous ends together in an oxygen coal-gas flame ; in this way , a symmetrical beam , lying on a plane surface , was secured .
If this condition is not fulfilled , the beam is apt to be deformed by small stresses set up in the quartz at the points of junction , as found by Steel and Grant .
It is also necessary that the knife-edge shall be at right angles to the beam in two planes .
This was managed by sealing the knife-edge on to the beam with a long guiding rod of silica attached to it , so that adjustment to a right angle is not difficult by trial and error ; this guiding rod , when fused off , left a stem of a few millimetres in length , to which the platinised silica mirror was fused .
By this device the mirror revolved without displacement when the balance was deflected .
Another improvement was the direct sealing of a fine quartz fibre to the end of the beam , whereby a much freer suspension was attained .
Again , while Steel and Grant weighed by displacement of the zero , our weighings were made by a null method , whereby the alteration of pressure brings the spot of light to its original position .
In this way , any possible variation in the sensibility of the beam with its deflection from horizontality is avoided .
To eliminate as far as possible temperature changes and also vibration , the balance is mounted on a stone pillar in a cellar , and the brass case stands inside a large box of bright tin-plate .
The mirror is illuminated by a beam of light from a Nernst lamp , which reflects on to a millimetre scale about 3 metres away .
The light is allowed to impinge on the mirror only when a reading is taken .
* 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1909 , vol. 82 , p. 580 .
540 Dr. Gray and Sir W. Ramsay .
Density of [ Dec. 13 , The small counterpoise quartz bulb , which contains a known weight of air , serves instead of a set of weights .
When the air pressure in the balance case is the same as that in the bulb the apparent weight of the air which it contains is nil .
That is to say , the real weight of the air in the bulb is exactly counterpoised by the buoyancy of the air outside .
In a vacuum the sealed-up air exerts its full weight , and at any intermediate pressure the arm of the beam carrying the bulb is loaded with a known fraction of this weight .
The counterpoise bulb of the balance used by us has a capacity of 22*2 cu .
mm. , and the air which it contains weighs 0*027 mgrm .
, or 27,000 yu , mgrm .
( millionth milligrammes ) .
A pressure change of 1/ 10 mm. can be easily read by a cathetometer , so that any object lighter than 27,000 yamgrm .
can be weighed with an accuracy of 3*55 / / , mgrm .
By reading the pressure more exactly , say to 1/ 100 mm. , the limit of accuracy could have been increased to one-tenth of the figure above , provided , of course , that the sensibility of the balance is great enough ; to obtain this maximum degree of sensibility two important conditions have to be fulfilled .
The centre of gravity of the beam must be most carefully adjusted , and the knife-edge must be perfectly straight and regular , even when viewed through a microscope with a half-inch objective .
The final adjustment of the centre of gravity is made by volatilising away from the top of the centre rod , round which the beam is built , minute quantities of quartz in the oxy-coal gas blowpipe ; this is a comparatively simple process .
The making of the knife-edge gave a good deal of trouble , but in the end this difficulty was overcome .
The edge itself is about 0*3 or 0*4 of a millimetre long , and is ground in the form of a right-angled prism on the end of a quartz rod , which is subsequently fused on to the beam .
The grinding and polishing of the edge , which is a very delicate operation , was carried out for us by Messrs. Hilger and Co. Our present balance is sensitive to about 2 yamgrm .
; its zero remains perfectly constant for days together .
When the counterpoise bulb is removed , the zero of the balance is not altered by large changes of pressure within the case .
The standard of weight , which is , of course , the weight of the air in the counterpoise bulb , has been verified in the following way : A long measured length of very fine aluminium wire was weighed as accurately as possible on an assay balance .
A small portion of this wire , about 2 mm. in length , was cut from the longer length in such a way that the cross-sections w*ere as nearly as possible circular ; it was then measured under a reading microscope , and its weight was determined in terms of the counterpoise-bulb on the micro-balance .
The weight so determined agreed within 1 per cent. 1910 .
] Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
541 with the weight calculated , on the assumptions that the wire was uniform , and that the weight of the small piece was directly proportional to its length .
For the measurement of the density of very small quantities of niton or of other gases , the following procedure was adopted:\#151 ; The gas , of a volume of the order of 0*1 cu .
mm. , was forced by means of mercury into a fine capillary tube of about 1 mm. external and 0*2 mm. internal diameter , which wTas sealed on to the apparatus for purifying the gas ( see figure ) .
The upper end of this tube was drawn out into a finer very thin-walled tube , the extreme point of which was sealed .
When necessary , the volume of the gas was measured at various pressures in the capillary tube , carefully calibrated for this purpose .
After measurement , the tip of the tube was surrounded for some minutes with liquid air , in order to condense the gas ; the volume of the gas was then considerably increased , so that any hydrogen still present should expand , and only a minute trace could remain at the top of the tube ; the tube was then sealed at a distance of about 20 mm. below the tip , by aid of a pin-point gas flame .
After most carefully cleaning and drying the small tube , it was lifted with platinum-tipped forceps , the tips of which had just been heated to redness , and placed in a little tightly-fitting 44 bucket , " or external tube , of silica , suspended from one arm of the balance by quartz fibre ; the pointed end of the density-tube was downwards , and the lower end of the bucket was slightly curved .
A quartz counterweight , suspended to the same arm of the balance , was then adjusted , by fusing on or by volatilising off small pieces of silica , so that the beam was in balance at a pressure in the neighbourhood of 50 mm. After an hour or more the pressure in the case was exactly measured , and the position of the spot of light on the scale was noted .
The bucket and tube were then removed with the platinum-tipped forceps ; and , while it was held vertical inside a wider tube , the density tube was pressed down with a glass rod , cup-shaped at the end ; the drawn-out point of the density-tube broke , but no splinters of glass could escape , for they were all retained in the bucket of silica .
The bucket and its tube were \lt ; ?
then replaced on the balance and the air was exhausted ; air was again admitted , and a second exhaustion was made ; in this way the gas was removed from the interior of the density-tube , and replaced by air .
The pressure was then adjusted to bring the zero point back again to its original position .
With practice , the whole operation could be carried out in less than five minutes ; this reduced the chance of error from the condensation of moisture on the glass and the settling of dust particles .
Before , experimenting with the precious niton , the method was tested with 542 Dr. Gray and Sir W. Ramsay .
Density of [ Dec. 13 , the less valuable xenon .
Before freezing the gas its volume was measured ; it amounted , at 0 ' and 760 mm. , to 0*0977 cu .
mm. It was then frozen , and the density-tube was sealed off and placed in its bucket on the balance ; after breaking the tip , the pressure change was 17*1 mm. ( 70 \#151 ; 52 9 ) , the temperature change was too small to affect the result ; this pressure change corresponds to an apparent loss of weight of 608 / nngrm .
But this number 1910 .
] Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
543 does not represent the real weight of the xenon , for in the second weighing the tube is full of air , and therefore to the observed weight the weight of the .air filling the tube at the temperature and pressure of the second weighing has to be added .
The volume of the tube being known ( for its length was measured ) , the weight of air under the conditions of weighing ( 52*9 mm. and 16 ' ) proves to be 46 fimgrm .
; hence the total weight is 654 / /mgrm .
A further correction has next to be applied to allow for the difference in buoyancy of the glass of the weighing-tube in the two weighings .
This correction could , of course , be calculated , provided one knew the weight of the tube , the density of the quartz of the silica counterpoise on the end of the beam opposite to the objects to be weighed , and the density of the sample of glass forming the weighing-tube .
It was found , however , to be more accurate and convenient to determine directly on the balance the magnitude of this correction for each experiment .
For this purpose the counterpoise bulb containing air was replaced by a piece of quartz of almost exactly the same weight , and under the new conditions the variation of the zero point of the balance for a given change of pressure was determined .
Knowing the weight corresponding to each scale-division displacement of the zero point , the variation in buoyancy of the open glass tube between the two weighings was easily and accurately calculated .
In general , this correction is a somewhat large one , and amounts in this case to no less than one-seventh of the total weight of the gas .
The reason for this is the large difference in weight between the density-tube and the contained gas .
The density tube , as a rule , weighed about 30 mgrm .
, and the contained gas about 1/ 2000 mgrm .
; hence the weight of the gas is to that of the vessel as 1 to 60,000 , whereas , under ordinary conditions , when weighing 200 c.c. of gas , the ratio is about 1 to 600 .
In this experiment , the correction for the buoyancy of the glass proved to be 91 / / , mgrm .
; but there is still a correction to be applied , for there is a change of buoyancy due to the volume occupied by the gas itself .
As the volume of the tube was known , this could be calculated with greater accuracy than it could be determined by experiment .
In this case , the xenon occupied 0*536 cu .
mm. , and the difference in buoyancy of the air between the pressures 70 and 52*9 mm. ( 17*1 mm. ) is 17*1 x 0*536 x 1*29/ 760 x 1000 == 15 / /mgrm .
Had the sealed tube been weighed at the lower instead of the higher pressure ( at 52*9 instead of 70 mm. ) , it would have weighed more ; hence this correction is positive .
The true weight of the xenon is therefore 654 \#151 ; 91 + 15 = 578 / /mgrm .
The calculated weight of 0*0977 cu .
mm. of xenon is 577 / migrm .
The exact agreement is doubtless a coincidence .
544 Dr. Gray and Sir W. Ramsay .
Density of [ Dec. 13 , With niton , two sources of error made their appearance ; in the first place , the density-tube became strongly electrified , and attracted dust particles and adsorbed air , and in the second , the tube was always at a higher temperature than the surrounding atmosphere during weighing , * and convection currents were liable to be set up in the air surrounding one limb of the balance .
The first of these effects could not be entirely eliminated , but it was considerably reduced as regards dust by filtering the air through a long column of tightly packed cotton-wool before allowing it to enter the balance-case .
In addition , the tube , after suspension from the beam of the balance , was , as a rule , gently heated by passing a non-luminous pin-pointed gas-flame quickly over its surface , thus burning off most of the attracted particles of dust .
The same expedient was also adopted , before the second weighing , after the tube had been broken .
Blank experiments showed that this procedure did not alter the weight of the tube in the slightest degree , provided it was perfectly clean ; when dust-particles were present , however , there was always a small loss of weight .
The effect of convection currents was reduced as much as possible by weighing at a low pressure ; in our five experiments , the final pressure varied from 87 to 13 mm. ; and the concordance of the results precludes the possibility of any serious error from this source .
It may also be noted that the density-tube , after removal of the niton , and during the second weighing , contained approximately the equilibrium amount of radium A , B , and C , the heating effect of which is a large fraction of the total heating effect of the emanation in equilibrium with its quick-change products ; hence any error in the first weighing was partially compensated by a similar error in the second weighing .
Finally , we would point out that convection currents , on account of the position and shape of the tube , have very little influence on the balance , and their presence should have been revealed by the oscillations of the beam and the position of the zero-point .
No irregularity , however , was noticed , and we believe that this source of error produced only negligibly small effects .
Before proceeding to cite the experimental results , we have still to explain how the exact volume of niton weighed was ascertained .
Taking as a basis our previous measurements , which proved the equilibrium amount of niton yielded by the total amount of radium at our disposal to be 0127 cu .
mm. at normal temperature and pressure , we had to determine what fraction of this amount was actually present in our weighing-tube .
This was conveniently done by measurement of the 7-ray activity by help of a small aluminium electroscope .
The procedure was as follows :\#151 ; * See Ramsay , ' Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' 1907 , vol. 91 , p. 931 .
1910 .
] Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
545 The emanation was drawn off from the radium-bulbs at definite intervals .of time , usually eight or nine days .
After explosion of the mixed oxygen and hydrogen gases , it was allowed to stand for several hours , so that the quick-change products should accumulate , and its 7-ray activity was measured in the usual way .
It was next introduced into the density-tube , and frozen there , as described for xenon , and the hydrogen was removed by pumping ; about 10 per cent , of the niton was pumped off with the hydrogen , for the niton has some vapour-pressure at \#151 ; 195 ' .
The 7-ray activity of the gas removed was compared with that in the sealed-off density-tube , after a suitable interval of time .
Other measurements were made to determine the quantity remaining in the purifying apparatus ; but in most cases this was negligible , and , as a rule , the radioactivity of the pumped-off gas , plus .the radioactivity of the gas in the weighing-tube , were together equal , after corrections for the decay had been made , to the initial total radioactivity of the gas before it had been purified .
It was found , however , that some niton had entered the walls of the weighing-tube ; this fraction was estimated by determining the radioactivity of the empty tube , immediately after it had been weighed .
Obviously , this emanation had not been removed by the pump .
In the table which follows , this amount appears in the column " volume left in tube " ; it has been subtracted from the total volume .
The operations of drawing and purifying the emanation , measuring its radioactivity , counterpoising and weighing the density-bulb , and measuring the radioactivity of the amount pumped off , as well as that in the weighing tube , required a long day , so that the density-tube could not be broken until 24 hours after the niton was drawn ; the actual volume of niton present at the moment of fracture , however , was easily calculated from its known rate of decay .
As the quick-change products A , B , and C are short lived and change rapidly into D , and as D is a solid , it remains in the density-bulb and is not weighed , but the helium resulting from the change of niton into A , A into B , and C into D , escapes for the most part along with the niton ; its weight must be calculated , and that of the escaping gas diminished by its amount , in order to arrive at the true weight of the niton .
Five experiments were made in order to determine the total loss of weight on opening the density-tube , and a sixth to obtain an estimate of the weight of the helium produced by the disintegration of the niton as far as radium D. For this purpose a density-tube was filled as described in the middle of the month of July , 1910 ; it remained counterpoised on the balance until October , when the conversion into D was practically complete .
As the half-life period of D is about 14 years , it is unnecessary to consider 546 Dr. Gray and Sir W. Ramsay .
Density of [ Dec. 13 , any further change .
At the end of October the point of the density-tube was broken as usual , and the tube was again weighed , the loss in weight being due to the helium produced .
We must here chronicle the fact that during the three months in which the tube hung on the balance a continuous gain in weight was noticed , rapid at first , but attaining an end point ; this amounted to 670 / migrm .
On heating the tube , 1280 / imgrm .
were lost .
The tube had not been heated before it was originally suspended on the balance ; the gain was probably due to condensation of air on the electrified surface , and possibly , but improbably , to the deposition of dust .
This gain of weight on standing is , however , not confined to electrified surfaces ; a gold capsule , heated to redness before suspension , gained considerably in weight for two days .
The density-tube was heated and re-suspended on the balance , and for three hours there was no alteration of weight .
It was then broken and immediately placed on the balance , and weighed within five minutes , during which it might be expected that no change would occur ; the loss of weight was 15 jamgrm .
, The volume of the density-tube was 0T96 cu .
mm. ; the weight of air filling it at 37'7 mm. pressure and 18'5 ' C. was 12 / xmgrm .
; hence the total weight of helium was 27 / rmgrm .
; no correction for glass displacement of air was necessary , for the pressure did not vary during the readings .
The calculated weight of helium obtainable from 0072 cu .
mm. of niton , the amount present in the tube , on the assumption that each atom ( or molecule ) of niton loses three a-particles on disintegrating to RaD , should have been 38 / tmgrm .
; of this , only about three-quarters had been removed by the pump .
It was necessary to seek for the remainder , which , we believed , had entered the glass of the weighing-tube .
Before removing it , however , we thought it worth while to attempt to .
dissolve the deposit of radium D from the walls of the weighing-tube , and to estimate its amount by loss .
The closed end of the weighing-tube was cut off , and the rest of the tube placed in the bucket along with it , and weighed .
The tube itself was then washed out with a mixture of two drops of nitric acid , previously purified by distillation from a silica bulb , and one of water \ the solution was preserved .
The tube was then washed with water and dried by aspirating through it a current of dry air ; it was then replaced in the bucket and re-weighed .
The loss was 831 yumgrm .
Supposing that the emanation , the calculated weight of which , assuming it to have the atomic weight 222-4 , was 713 / nngrm .
, had lost three a-particles , the weight should have been 674 / nngrm .
The difference , as we have proved by a subsequent experiment on the solubility of glass in dilute nitric acid , is due to the removal of sodium and calcium as nitrates .
This must have 1910 .
] Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
547 amounted in the case given to 831 \#151 ; 674 = 157 yamgrm .
We identified under the microscope crystals of sodium nitrate .
It is obvious that no importance can be attached to the latter half of this experiment , except in as much as it shows a loss of weight of the order required .
The weighing-tube still contained presumably occluded helium .
It was placed in a silica tube , surrounded by a thicker-walled tube , also of silica , and it was connected with a Topler pump and with an inverted siphon for introducing oxygen .
The apparatus was freed from air and washed out several times with oxygen , so as to avoid introducing helium or neon from the air .
About one-third of a cubic centimetre of oxygen was then admitted , and the silica tube was heated in a blow-pipe flame until the glass weighing-tube had completely fused ; small bubbles were evolved .
The oxygen , together with the gas evolved from the tube , was pumped off and introduced into an apparatus consisting of a calibrated capillary tube in communication with a minute bulb containing charcoal cooled with liquid air .
After some hours the oxygen was completely absorbed by the charcoal , and the residual gas was measured .
The correction for the unmeasured gas still remaining in the charcoal bulb was found to be 4 per cent. The volume was 0*042 cu .
mm. at 0 ' and 760 mm. pressure , and its weight was therefore 8 / /mgrm .
The sum of the helium actually weighed ( 27 / /mgrm .
) plus that measured ( 8 / /mgrm .
) gives a total of 35 / /mgrm .
, differing from the calculated amount ( 38 / /mgrm .
) by only 3 / /mgrm .
That the gas measured was pure helium was proved by surrounding the upper part of the capillary tube with tin-foil , and passing a discharge from a coil through it .
The full spectrum of pure helium was seen , and no other lines .
This result has astonished us , as , perhaps , it may astonish our readers , , but the conditions under which the last weighing was made were particularly favourable , since the tube was practically non-radioactive .
This experiment taught us that about one-quarter of the helium produced by the disintegration of the emanation and its products enters the walls of the weighing-tube , and is not removed by the pump ; we have now all the data for calculating the density of niton .
The results are given in the annexed table:\#151 ; Dr. Gray and Sir W. Ramsay .
Density of [ Dec. 13 , Table of Results .
No. of experiment .
Time of accumulation .
Total volume of niton .
Volume pumped off .
Decay of niton .
| Volume left in tube .
Volume weighed .
Apparent weight .
Weight of air replacing niton .
Correction for displacement due to glass and air .
Correction for weight of helium produced from niton .
True weight of niton .
Micro- Micro- Micro- Micro- Micro- ; Day .
Cu .
mm. Cu .
mm. Cu .
mm. Cu .
mm. Cu .
mm. mgrm .
mgrm .
mgrm .
mgrm .
mgrm .
1 8 0 *0969 0 *0052 0 *0182 0 *0007 0 -0728 721 + 31 -29 + 24 - 8 739 2 2 9 0 *1017 0 *0188 0 *0163 0 *0100 0 -0566 477 + 103 -16 + 15 - 7 572 2 3 9 0 *1017 0 *0135 0 *0253 0 *0039 0 -0590 577 + 37 -22+ 9 -10 591 2 4 8 0 *0969 0 *0119 0 *0157 0 *0016 0 -0677 673 + 10 -26 + 12 - 6 663 2 5 8 0 *0969 0 *0082 0 *0152 0 *0005 0 -0730 704 + 29 -33 + 16 - 6 710 2 Mean ... 2 A complete reproduction of Experiment 5 may be given , to show how all the requisite data are obtained and utilised .
Volume of niton accumulated in 8 days = equilibrium quantity x fraction surviving ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0*127 x 0*763 = y-ray activity of this sample , divisions per hour ... ... ... .
y-ray activity of fraction pumped off ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Hence amount pumped off ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Amount of niton in weighing-tube = 0*0969-0*0082 = ... ... ... The weighing-tube was then counterpoised on the balance .
Pressure in balance-case ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Zero on scale of beam of light reflected from mirror ... ... .
Twenty-five hours after drawing , the weighing-tube was broken .
The gas pumped out , however , was not the original 0'0887 cu .
mm. , but that volume multiplied by the decay-factor for 25 hours , 0*828 , viz ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Pressure in balance-case after breaking the density-tube ... Pressure-change = 54*4 \#151 ; 34*7 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Zero on scale after breaking ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Difference of zero =155 \#151 ; 154 = 1 mm. But from measurement , 10 mm. pressure = 77 scale divisions ; hence 1 division = 10/ 77 = ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... This must be added to the pressure\#151 ; 19*7 + 013 = ... ... ... . .
The counterpoise-bulb contained 0*0270 mgrm .
, or 27,000 / imgrm .
of air .
Its buoyancy was altered by ( 19*83/ 760 ) x 27,000 = ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0*0969 cu .
mm. 3996 divisions .
353 " 0*0082 cu .
mm. 0*0887 " 54*4 mm. 155 " 0*07347 cu .
mm. 34*7 mm. 19*7 " 154 " 0*13 " 19*83 " 703*8 fimgrm .
But air entered the tube when it was broken ; the volume of the density-tube , ascertained by previous calibration , was 0*522 cu .
mm. Weight of this air at 34*7 mm. and 17 ' C. = 0*522 x 1290 x 35/ 760 x 273/ 290 = ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
29*2 / xmgrm .
The sum of these quantities , 703*8 and 29*2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 733 " 1910 .
] Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
549 But the pressure was changed by 19'8 mm. ; this alters the weight of the density-bulb by the weight of air corresponding to the difference in volume between the glass density-bulb and a silica one ; as already described , this quantity was determined directly by replacing the air-bulb by a solid counterpoise of silica , and using the density-bulb as a measure of buoyancy .
For 19*8 mm. the " glass displacement " is equivalent to -32*8 / xmgrm .
A further correction has to be made , viz. the change of buoyancy due to , the volume occupied by the gas itself .
The volume of the density-tube was 0*522 cu .
mm. ; the change of pressure was 19*8 mm. ; hence the weight of this air for 19*8 mm. change = 0*522x1290x19*8/ 760x273/ 290 = 16 / xmgrm .
, This is a positive correction ; the weight , 733 / migrm .
, must be diminished by the difference between 32*8 and 16 , say 17 / xmgrm .
The remainder is 7L6 / xmgrm .
The last correction to make is the subtraction of the weight of the helium produced by the decay of the emanation during its stay in the weighing-tube .
Now 22,400 cu .
mm. niton weigh , say , 222*5 mgrm .
, and 0*0224 " " weighs " 222*5 / xmgrm .
Each atom of niton gives three atoms of helium ; hence , helium from 0*0224 cu .
mm. niton weighs 12 / xmgrm .
The volume of emanation decayed in the weighing-tube is 0*0887 cu .
mm.\#151 ; 0*0735 cu .
mm. = 0*0152 cu .
mm. , and the weight of three times that volume of helium is 8 / xmgrm .
One quarter of this has entered the glass and has not escaped , hence the helium removed weighed 6 / xmgrm .
That number deducted from 716 leaves 710 / xmgrm .
as the weight of the niton .
To return for a moment to its volume .
The amount of niton in the weighing-tube was 0*07347 cu .
mm. at the moment of pumpiug out .
But some niton had penetrated its walls , and was not removed by the pump .
That amount was estimated by comparing the y-radio-activity of the weighing-tube after it had been weighed u empty " with that of the gas pumped off , which had , of course , diminished in radioactivity ; this diminution corresponded with the time which elapsed since the last reading , and was measured to verify the constancy of the electroscope .
The radioactivity of the residue left in the weighing-tube was , after correction for natural leak , 17 divisions per hour .
The original radioactivity of the niton in the weighing-tube was 3996 \#151 ; 353 = 3643 divisions per hour ; its volume in the weighing-tube when decay commenced was 0*0887 cu .
mm. ; hence the " volume55 left in the tube by the retention of niton in the walls was ( 17 x 0*0887)/ 3643 = 0*0005 cu .
mm. This , subtracted from 0*07347 cu .
mm. , the volume of niton in the tube at the moment of pumping out , leaves 0*0730 cu .
mm. as the volume actually weighed .
All the data are now complete ; 0*0730 cu .
mm. of niton at 0 ' and 760 mm. pressure weighed 710 / migrm .
A litre weighs 9*727 grm. ; a litre of oxygen weighs l*429grm .
; and the molecular weight of niton is therefore 218 .
The nomenclature of Rutherford and Soddy , which has attained the provisional assent of the Brussels Congress , is advantageous as showing the relationship between the degradation-products of the various radioactive elements , but obscures any chemical relationship between the elements themselves .
Were it consistently carried out , radium , which undoubtedly belongs to the group of alkaline-earth metals , would have to be named after uranium , a metal with no affinities with that group .
The " emanation of radium " is a cumbrous name , and gives no indication of its position in the periodic table , a position which may now be taken as certain .
To vol. lxxxiv.\#151 ; a. 2 P 550 Density of Niton and the Disintegration Theory .
show its relation to gases of the argon series , it should receive a similar name ; and the spectrum , the freezing-point , the boiling-point , the critical point , the density of the liquid , and the density of the gas , the last establishing , without doubt , the atomic weight of the element , having been determined in this laboratory , it only remains to give it a name .
The name " niton , ' " N't , which has been used in this paper , is suggested as sufficiently distinctive . .
The research , of which the foregoing is an account , yields a further proof , if such were necessary , of the beautiful theory of the disintegration of the radioactive elements originally advanced by Rutherford and Soddy in 1902 .
The determination of the density of a gas , even with approximate exactness , has always been regarded as establishing its molecular weight , the accurate value of which may have been derived from other considerations .
In the present case , these considerations are the result of the disintegration theory .
Determinations by Madame Curie and by Thorpe of the atomic weight of radium show beyond all doubt that it differs little from 222*4 .
That four atoms of helium separate from one atom of radium is rendered almost certain from the work of Dewar , and from experiments by Rutherford , and by Ramsay and Soddy .
That three atoms of helium are lost by niton on decay has been shown in the preceding pages .
It follows that one helium atom must escape when radium changes into its emanation ; hence the true atomic weight of the emanation must he 222*4 .
This number hardly differs from the mean of the atomic weight determinations given in this paper ; and the disintegration theory receives a further confirmation .

