III .
" O11 some Varieties in Human ailMyology .
" By JOMN WrOOD , F.R.C.S. , Demonstrator of Anatomy in King 's College , London .
Communicated by Professor HUXLEY , F.R.S. Received May 6 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The paper gives the results of the author 's observations on human muscular variations observed during the last fifteen years , and extending over upwards of six hundred subjects .
Many of the more striking varieties were drawn by the author from the subject , and form a series of thirty-seven illustrations accompanying the paper .
Some of them he has not found placed on record by any authority he has consulted .
The author classifies these muscular variations as follows , viz.:Variations with r edundancy .
1st .
Those which have an origin in a development totally independent of any other muscles or tendons .
2nd .
Those which consist of extensions or offsets from normal muscles or tendons , and of muscular fibres replacing tendons , and tendinous fibres intersecting muscles .
3rd .
Those which are formed by simple areolar separation or segrega .
tion of muscles .
These are given in the order of their rarity , and of their comparative value in reference to the muscular anatomy of the lower animals .
Variations with defciency .
1st .
Those produced by total suppression of the germs of muscles .
2nd .
Those resulting from amalgamation with neighbouring muscles .
3rd .
Those from atrophy or degeneration subsequent to their formation .
All the illustrations belong to the former class , which supply the most fitting subjects for them .
The frequency of varieties of all kinds in the human subject is very great .
Few subjects are to be found entirely free from them .
Muscular variations are rather more common in the male sex .
In them , also , variations with redundancy calculated to increase muscular power , such as are classed in the 2nd division of that section , are more commonl , but may be also associated in the same individual with anomalies from defect or diminution .
The same individual is frequently found subject to more than one irregularity , a muscular irregularity of a marked kilnd being generally associated with several others .
Probably the source is hereditary , as is undoubtedly the case with those which result in deformity .
Muscuilar variations are more common in the arm , back , leg , and head , and least common , as a rule , in the abdomen , the groin excepted .
They are generally more or less symmetrical , though often much more evident on one side than the other .
Distinct developments are usually found on both sides .
Variations by redundancy more frequent or more developed on the right side ; those from deficiency on the left .
Variations by simple reduplication .
The following muscles have been observed double , or in two distinct layers:-Pectoralis , major and minor ; gluteus maximus ; soleus ; pyramidalis abdominis ; pyriformis ; subclavius .
Variations by deficiency .
The following have been seen totally deficient:-Psoas parvus ; palmaris longus ; superior and inferior gemellus ; extensor minimi digiti ; pyramidalis abdominis ; pyriformis ; peronmus tertius ; extensor primi internodii pollicis ; trapezius ; plantaris and palmaris brevis ( rarely ) .
The following have been seen partly deficient:-Trapezius ; omo-hyoid ; sterno-hyoid ; serratus magnus ; internal oblique and transversalis abdominis ; soleus .
Other varieties observed ( all illustrated by drawings ) .
1 .
An offset from the platysma rnyoides below the ear , reaching from the trapezius and occipito-frontalis to the parotid fascia and risorius Santorini ( homologue of the panniculus carnosus ) .
2 .
Extensive origin of omo-hyoid from the clavicle , in addition to its scapular attachment .
3 .
Double omo-hyoid , the upper one digastric , the lower uninterrupted by tendon , and attached to base of coracoid process .
Not before recorded .
4 .
Levator claviculcv.-Clavio .
or acromio-trachelian , observed in two subjects , on both sides , arising with the levator anguli scapulce from the third and fourth cervical transverse processes , and inserted into the outer third of the clavicle under the trapezius .
Found in all the Ape-tribe .
5 .
Costo-fascialis.-A broad muscular band arising from the first rib and cartilage , outside the sterno-thyroid , and lost in the fascia of the upper half of the neck .
Not before described .
6 .
A double anterior belly to the digastric muscle , with complete decussation across the median line .
The latter peculiarity not before recorded .
7 .
Sternalis brutorum.-:Rectus sternalis vel thoracicus connected above with a prolongation downwards of the sternal tendon of the sterno-mastoid , muscular fibres spreading out below over the sternlal and epigastric aponeurosis , and attached to the xiphoid and fifth , sixth , and sevenith costal cartilages .
8 .
Double subclavius.-The lower fibres distinct from upper , with cephalic vein passing between them , and attached to the coracoid process .
9 .
Broad slips from pectoralis major and latissimu.s dorsi , passing across axillary vessels and nerves , and attached , low down the arm , to the aponeurosis inserted into the inner condyle of humerus and olecranon process .
These slips are highly developed in some of the anthropoid Apes ; the former especially in the Gibbon .
The same subject , a muscular male , showed also a high and large origin of the pronator radii teres in common with the brachialis anticus .
10 .
Chondro-coracoid muscle , passing from the latissimus dorsi at tenth rib to the tip of the coracoid process .
Not before recorded .
The same subject showed also a low origin of the pectoralis minor .
11 .
Biceps with four heads.-Of the two additional heads , the inner arises with the brachialis anticus , and the outer with the supinator longus .
In the same arm is a slip from the coraco-brachialis to the internal intermuscular septum , passing down to the condyle , and perforated by the brachial artery .
12 .
Coraco-capsularis.-A muscular slip from the tip of the coracoid process to the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint , inserted between subscapular and triceps muscles .
13 .
Brachio-fascialis , passing from the brachialis anticus to the fascia over the flexor muscles of the forearm , coexistent with the semilunar fascia from the biceps .
14 .
Palmaris longus , with inverted belly and double origin , the additional one ( tendinous ) from the oblique line of the radius above the flexor sublimis .
Given off from it also is the flexor brevis mintimi digiti .
A precisely similar arrangeinent of this very uncertain muscle not before recorded .
A somewhat similar arrangement found in the Cebu 's and Magot .
15 .
Three distinct muscles and tendons connecting , -I , the flexor pollicis longus with the indicial tendon of the flexor profundus digitorum ; 2 , the flexor sublimis ( coronoid origin ) with the flexor pollicis longus ; and 3 , the flexor sublimis with the flexor profundus ( middle part ) .
Segregation also of the indicial portion of the flexor profundus .
16 .
Flexor brevis minimi dligiti .
Additional long , broad , fleshy origin from the fascia of the forearm , and aniother from the tendon of fexor carpi ulnaris .
Aponeurotic slip given off to transverse metacarpal ligament .
17 .
Striking abnormality seen in two male subjects on both sides .
A long tendon with bulky , muscular belly above , arising from the outer condyloid ridge of humerus with the extensor carpi radialis longior , and inserted in one case into the base of the first metacarpal bone and origin of the abductor _pollicis , and in the other passing entirely into the latter muscle .
Not before recorded .
18 .
Extensor primi internodii pollicis et indicis.-Arising by a distinct belly above the indicator , going along with that muscle , and giving off two tendons , one to be implanted outside the indicator tendon , and the other to supply the place of the extensor primi internodii potlicis .
Not before recorded in the humnan subject .
Found in the Dog .
19 .
Extensor proprius digiti medii.-A distinct extensor of the first phalanx of the middle finger , arising from the ulna below the indicator .
20 .
Extensor minimi digiti with double tendon , one going to the fourth finger .
Associated with this are three carious slips or displacements of the dorsal interossei , arising from the base of the metacarpal , os magnum and unciforme , and attached to the common expansion of the extensor tendolns behind the slips from the interossei .
These slips are considered by the author to indicate a tendency to the formation of an extensor brevis digitorumn manus , by posterior displacement of the fibres of the dorsal interossei .
21 .
A. Musculus interosseus volaris primzus.-A palmar interosseous going to the dorsal aponeturosis of the thumb .
Not usually described , though often present .
Mentioned by Henle .
B. In a hand from the subject before giveni in 9 and 17 , all the dorsal interossei were arranged in two portions easily separable .
In the first initerosseous space the abductor indicis was very distinctly divided into a posterior part , arising in the usual manner , and inserted inlto the base of the first phalanx ; and an anterior , arising from the first metacarpal , and inserted partly ( by a small slip ) into the second metacarpal , but chiefly ( by a very distinct tendon ) into the dorsal expansion of the common extensor tendon of the index .
Not before recorded in the human subject .
A similar arrangemenit found in the Gorilla and other Simiae .
22 .
Strong muscular slips seen in the male perineum , arising from the usual attachment of the transversi perinei to the ischial tuberosity , and inserted with the front fibres of the accelerator urin6e into the dorsal fascia of the penis and corpora cavernosa , in front of the erector penis .
Not before recorded .
23 .
Separation of the anterior fibres of the gluteus mini ?
nus into a distinct muscle homologous with the scansorius of Traill , or invertor femo is of Owen , founid in the Orang and others of the Ape-tribe .
24 .
Tensor fasciac plantar is.-Arising from the oblique line of the tibia under the soleus , and inserted into the internal annular ligament , near the tuberosity of the os calcis .
25 .
Flexor accessorius longus digitorum.-Fleshy from the aponeurosis halfway up the back of the leg , with a tendoll joining the flexor accessorius and tendon of the flexor longus digitorumn .
The supe2:9cialflexor tendon of the little toe was also , in the same foot , supplied from the outer fibres of the flexor accessorius .
Not before recorded .
26 .
Peroneus quinti digiti .
In most instances a tendinous , but in one a fleshy offset from the peroneus brevis , below the outer ankle-bonie , to the expansion of the common extensor tendon of the little toe .
Very frequent in the human subject , usual in the Apes .
27 .
Tensorfascice dorsalis pedis , from the lower third of fibula to the anterior annlular ligament and dorsal fascia .
Not before recorded .
28 .
Tibialis anticus tendon divided into three parts , going respectively to the inner cuneiform , base of metatarsal , and first phalangeal bone of the great toe .
The last-mentioned offset not before recorded .
Similar arrangement in the Quadrumana .
29 .
Extensor pri ?
ni internodii hallucis , or proper extensor of the first phalanx of the great toe , arising fleshy from the tibia , inside the extensor pro.prius , and below the tibialis anticus .
Strong tendon implanted into base of first phalanx inside the short common extensor .
30 .
The same muscle in another subject , having a different arrangement .
Arising from the interosseous ligament outtside the extensor proprius , and inserted by a tendon into that of the short common extensor going to the great toe .
Neither of these have been before recorded .
31 .
A. The deep flexor tendon of the little toe supplied by a distinct muscle arising from the inner tubercle of the os calcis .
Not before recorded .
B. A very large development of the flexor accessorius inserted into both the long common flexor and long flexor of the great toe telndons .
32 .
A. Abductor ossis metatarsi qutinti.-A distinct muscle found by the author in more than one-half of the subjects in which he has looked for it , concealed by the outer part of the plantar fascia and abductor minimi digiti muscle , arising from the outer tubercle of the os calcis by a round fleshy belly , and inserted inito the base of the fifth metatarsal by a distinct round tendoon .
Not before observed in the humani subject .
Found in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee bvy Huxley and Flower .
B. Opponens minimi digiti.-Very commnonly found , though not described in .
anatomical text-books .
Arises telndinous from the ligament of the fifth metatarsal and cuboid , and inserted in a bipenniiate way into the whole length of the fifth metatarsal bone .
Founid well developed in all the Apes .

