S77 .
] On the Length of the Voltaic Spark .
227 The properties here considered are those which appertain to the jints , if any , through which all the surfaces pass , or , as they may , termed , the principal points of the system , and they consist mainly the nature of the contact of the hyperjacobian surfaces with the sur- , ce U , and the multiplicity of the hyperjacobian curve at the points in aestion .
The present investigation extends to the cases of two-branch contact the given surface with a one-fold and with a two-fold pencil , and of ir66"brflnch contact with a four-fold pencil .
In the latter case notice also made of some properties appertaining to the points , if any , where 1 the surfaces touch one another , or , as they may be termed , the condary points of the system .
In particular it is shown that in the ise of common , or two-branch , contact and a one-fold pencil the jaco-an curve has a double point at the principal points ' ; while in the case lthree-branch contact and a four-fold pencil the hyperjacobian curve as a triple point at the same points .
I. " On the Length of the Spark from a Voltaic Battery in different Oases at ordinary Atmospheric Pressures .
" By Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and Hugo W. Muller , Ph. P. , P.R.S. Received May 17 , 1877 .
We venture , in anticipation of a more detailed account , in course of reparation , of our experiments with the chloride-of-silver battery which ave engaged our attention for more than three years , to lay before the ociety the results of some investigations we were induced to make in onsequence of phenomena we have observed in the voltaic discharge in ifferent residual gases contained in vacuum tubes .
We have found , as anticipated we should do , that the length of the spark at ordinary stmospheric pressures in the following gases is the longest in the order ( l'l a which they are enumerated\#151 ; hydrogen , nitrogen , air , oxygen , carbonic l !
lj , cid\#151 ; it being nearly twice as long in hydrogen as in air .
The spark u air between a point ( positive ) and a plate ( negative ) with our battery \#187 ; f 8040 cells is about 0*34 in .
, and in hydrogen 0-60 .
We may mention \#174 ; ^| hat we are making up our battery to 10,440 cells .
The length of the park does not appear to be dependent on the specific gravity of the \lt ; *1 ; as , but may have some relation to its viscosity .
m

