]\gt ; Introduction .
The subject of the transmission of -rays matter has , from time to time , received considerable attention .
Apart from any intrinsic interest the problems involved are of considerable theoretical importance .
Owing to the high velocity of the -rays , the collisions , to which the absorption of the rays must be ascribed , take place not with the atom as a whole , but with its constituent parts , and thus from a study of the behaviour of the rays during their passage through matter we may hope to gain considerable information as to the constitution of the atom .
: Until very recently it was thought that the phenomena involved in the absorption of the -rays were very simple .
It was early shown that the -rays from a single radioactive substance , such as uranium X for example , were absorbed by light substances , such as aluminium , according to an exponential law .
For the heavier elements , such as tin or platinum , the absorption curve at first descended rather more steeply than the true exponential , but finally became exponential after the rays had passed through some small thickness of the absorbing material .
This law has been tested for a large number of elements and compounds by the present writer , with a high degree of accuracy , for a few substances , by N. B. Campbell .
This being so , the fact that a given bundle of rays was absorbed according to an exponential law was regarded as proving that the rays were homogeneous , and , further , that their velocity did not appreciably alter during their passage through the absorbing material .
Quite recently , however , W. Wilson published results which threw some doubt on both these conclusions .
Instead of working with the -rays from a single radioactive substance , he used the mixed bundle of rays from radium , employing a magnetic field to sort them into a series of nearly homogeneous pencils .
He then found that the absorption of the ' homogeneous\ldquo ; rays thus obtained did not follow xponential lCrowther , PhiL M best b. represented by N. R. Campbell , ' Phil. Mag 1909 , vol. 17 , p. 180 .
W. Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 , p. On the Scattering of Homogeneous , etc. 227 a linear relation .
As we shall see later , this linear relationship is not strictly true , the absorption curve for a substance such as aluminium having in reality two points of inflection .
We shall return to this point later .
In the same paper Wilson also gave results that the -rays lose velocity in their passage through the absorbing medium .
This point ' has been since investigated by the present writer , found , by direct measurements of the velocity of the rays before and after transmission through absorbing sheets , that a small but distinct loss of velocity did occur , and similar results have been recorded still more recently by himself .
In a previous I have shown that the absorption of a parallel pencil of -rays may conveniently be divided into two stages : firstly , the scattering or diffusion of the pencil , and , secondly , the more gradual absorption of the diffuse rays .
Without for the moment whether the two phenomena are really distinct , or whether they may not be merely two different expressions of the same phenomenon , we may regard it as an experimental fact that a parallel pencil of -rays is considerably scattered in a thickness of material too small to produce any appreciable absorption in a uniformly diffused beam .
It will be convenient , therefore , to consider the two phenomena separately .
Moreover , as now appears , the measurement of the absorption of the rays , as made by ionisation methods , is open to some uncertainty .
In all ionisation methods it is assumed that the amount of ionisation produced is a simple measure of the intensity of the rays producing it .
So long as the velocity of the rays remains the same , this is in all probability accurately the case .
When , however , the velocity is changing , as appears to be the case to some extent during the absorption of eneous -rays , the assumption no longer so obvious , and it is mcertain whether the ionisation produced measures the of the rays , their number , or some function of the two ; while if secondary radiation is at all important it may also depend upon the substance and shape of the ionisation chamber .
Measurements on the scattering of a pencil of -rays do not suffer from these uncertainties .
As pointed out above , the rays are scattered in a thickness of material far too small to produce any appreciable effect on the velocity of the rays , and possible errors due to this cause are therefore eliminated .
For this reason experiments on the scattering of the -rays are * J. A. Crowther , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc 1910 , vol. 15 , pt .
5 , p. 442 .
W. Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc June , 1910 .
J. A. Crowther , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , vol. 80 , p. 186 .
deflected .
The amount of this deflection will , of course , depend upon the way the particle strikes the atom .
There will , however , be a mean value for this deflection , and , considering only the effects produced by large numbers of the -particles , it may be assumed that each particle suffers the mean deflection .
Since the direction of the deflection is arbitrary , the problem is the same as that of finding the average value of the resultant of displacements of arbitrary phase and of constant amplitude .
This value is known to be .
Thus if is the number of atoms per unit volume , is the radius of an atom , and the mean deflection of a -particle produced by an atom , then the mean value of the deflection experienced by a particle in passing through a plate of thickness is .
Calling this angle we have for iven substance constant .
If is a given angle , the probability that the deflection is greater than is equal to or , where is a constant , since varies directly as the thickness .
Thus , if is the thickness for which this probability is one-half , we have , ( ) or , which is constant for any given absorbing substance .
The probability that the deflection is less than is equal to : that is to ( 2 ) where is a constant for any given value of Both these relationships lend themselves readily to experimental 4 : verification .
To calculate the value of , the atom is regarded as consisting of *Prof .
Sir J. J. Thomson , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc 1910 , vol. 16 , Pt. 5 .
1910 .
] and the Number of Electrons in the Atom .
229 negative corpuscles accompanied by an equal quantity of positive electrificaS tion .
The deflection of the -particle will thus arise from two causes:\mdash ; 1 ) The repulsion of the negative corpuscles distributed tlJrough the atom ; and ( 2 ) The attraction of the positive electrification .
The deflection due to the latter will depend upon whether the positive electricity is uniformly distributed through the atom , or whether it is divided ' up into small units .
Prof. Thomson considers each of these suppositions separately .
It will be sufficient here to give the results which he arrives at .
He found that the mean defiection produced by passage through a thin plate of thickness was given by ( A ) if the positive electricity is uniformly distributed ; and by ( B ) if the positive electricity is in small separate units ; being here the ratio of the volume occupied by the positive electricity to the volume of the atom .
The main object of the present experiments has been to test as completely as possible the agreement of the above relationships with the experimental facts , and , if the agreement proved to be satisfactory , to determine the value of , the number of corpuscles in an atom , for a number of different elements .
Experimental Details .
Before proceeding to describe the results obtained , it will be necessary first to give a brief account of the experimental methods employed .
The source of the -radiation was a sample of about 30 milligrams of radium bromide , in radioactive equilibrium , enclosed in a small lass tube .
This was found to give out -rays having a continuous range of velocities from about to cm .
per second .
These were sorted into bundles of rays having nearly the same velocity by a magnetic field .
It may be permissible here to point out the limitations of the magnetic deflection method , especially as do not seem to have been quite grasped by some previous users of the method .
Various screens are arranged , as in fig. 1 , to mark out a circular path ACB , and a magnetic field is applied at right angles to the plane of the paper .
By suitably adjusting the strength of this field , rays entering the system at A can be made tc trace out the path ACB and emerge through into a suitable measuring vessel .
If , however , the apertures have a finite size , as must always be the case in practice , VOL LXXXIV.\mdash ; A. will be for every netic field a finite range of velocities which the -rays may possess and still be able to pass through the system .
Unless the size of the apertures employed is quite small compared with the radius of the path , this range of velocities will be very considerable , and the emergent beam 1910 .
] -Rays and the Number of Electrons in the Atom .
perform the whole operation of deflecting the rays , and forming them into a suitable pencil , vacuo .
The form of apparatus finally decided upon is shown in section in fig. 2 , The portion EFGH is placed between the poles of an , so that the edges of the pole pieces lie OF and .
The tube BD projects from the magnetic field and is screened from it as carefully as possible by a thick block of soft iron .
The radius of curvature of the path of the rays is 4 cm .
, the diameter of the apertures at A and is cm .
, and the diameter of those at and cm .
The depth of the box at right angles to the plane of the paper is cm .
The different apertures are bevelled and the screens and sides of the box lined with aluminium to avoid as far as possible any secondary radiatiolL The radium was placed immediately above , and the aperture at A was closed with thin aluminium foil cm while the tube was soldered into the scattering chamber The whole could be exhausted hrough the tube , which was connected to a pressure gauge and pump .
With this apparatus a very satisfactory pencil of homogeneous -rays was produced .
By constructing a pair of such chambers and using the second to measure the velocity of the rays transmitted through the first , it was found that the extreme velocities of the -rays passing through either of the systems did not differ by as much as 1 per cenG .
from the mean .
The greatest possible deviation from the normal of the rays passing through was less than The emergent pencil of rays after leaving entered the exhausted chamber ( fig. 3 ) .
By means of a rotating sector , which could be operated from without , the rays could be allowed to go straight on , in which case the whole of the pencil passed into the ionisation chamber , or made to pass through different absorbing screens mounted upon the sector .
The opposite face of the chamber was closed with a thin aluminium window 6 cm .
in diameter , but stops of varying aperture could be inserted in the window at to limit the emergent beam to any desired angle .
The ionisation chamber calls for little comment .
The towards the chamber was closed with aluminium leaf , and an aluminium leaf mounted on a wire ring also formed the inner .
The other face was hollowed out , so that at whatever the rays emerged from the screens at they should all have the same length of path in the ionisation chamber itself .
In this way any correction for the increased ionisation due to the increasing length of path of the more oblique rays was rendered unnecessary .
The inner electrode was connected by a wire passing through an earthed amountl 9lectrons ither h by 4 cm .
of lead and 3 cm .
of iron , still produced a very considerable ionisation in the chamber T. If a direct method had been enployed , the ionisation due to the -rays would have come out .
as a relatively fimall difference between two ionisation currents .
As the percentage accuracy with which an ionisation current can be measured does not increase ( beyond a certain point ) with the magnitude of the current , this difference could not have been measured with any degree of accuracy .
With the compensating method , however , the ionisation due to the -rays can be compensated to begin with , and the actual ionisation due to the -rays themselves caIl be measured with precisely the same of accuracy as if the -ray ionisation were not present .
The second advantage is that the results are not affected by defects in insulation , as would be the case if a timing method were employed .
As defective insulation only comes into play when the gold leaf systen ) has actually acquired a charge , it cannot affect the direction in which the leaf would begin to move , and hence cannot affect the final balance .
In a method of measurement defects in the insulation will altel the rate of movement of the leaf , and may cause considerable errors in the results .
This is of importance in the present case , as it is always difficult to secure a high degree of insulation in the presence of any considerable amount of radium .
A few words may be added to indicate the order of accuracy to be expected in the measurements .
The maximum ionisation due to the -radiation amounted to about 30 on the compensator scale , it was possible to balance to within of a division .
The could therefore be made to an order of accuracy of about 2 per cent. of the maximmn ionisation .
After the lays had been cut down to one half ( as in the measurement of , the thickness required to produce this effect ) , could therefore be made to an accuracy of about 4 per cent. , and results obtained on different occasions were generally found to agree to within tbout this amount .
The probable error in the ionisation measurements may therefore be arded as being about 4 or 5 per cent. The angle of emergence of the rays was obtained by measuling the diameter of the stop the fixed distance of the stop from the scattering layer ; these could readily be ascertained to 1 per cent. The thickness of the scattering layers was measured by finding the weight of sheets of known area .
This operation could also be readily performed to all accuracy of 1 per cent. If , however , the sheet used was not of uniform thickness , an error might be introduced from the fact that the rays actually passed 1910 .
] -Rays tloe Number of Electrons in the Atom .
235 measures the proportion of the -rays which have their path deflected through an angle less than in a thickness of aluminium .
The values of plotted against the corresponding thickness are given in fig. 4 .
Table l.\mdash ; Aluminium .
Hence is the proportion of the rays which have their path deflected through an greater than .
As shown above ( equation 3 ) , should be a constant for a given angle FIG. 4 .
The last column of Table I gives the values of this quantity for an angular aperture , for varying thicknesses of aluminium .
It will be seen that the numbers obtained are constant to well within the probable errors of the experiment .
Sirnilar experiments were made with other stops , and also with platinum as the absorbing substance .
As the results were precisely similar , it will not be necessary to reproduce them at length .
1910 .
] -Rays the Number of Electr ons in the Atom .
237 Table gives the results of similar experlments with platinum .
The agreement here is also satisfactory , hardly so good as for aluminium .
There is , however , in the case of platinum a source of error which does not occur in the case of aluminium .
As will be seen from the table , it is necessary to use very thin leaf for the experiments on the of the rays by platinum .
The thickness of this can only be ascertained by weighing a known and considerable area of it .
This gives the mean thickness of the leaf , but in leaf of this sort variations in thickness may occur from point to point ; and thus it is quite possible that in any particular experiment the thickness of the small area ( about square netre ) actually traversed by the rays departed from the mean thickness given in Column 2 .
Table III deals with the question of the variation in the nitude of the scattering with the velocity of the rays .
In performing the experiments the stop was kept the same throughout , and the thickness of aluminium required to cut down the radiation through the given stop to one-half was measured for different magnetic fields .
The first of Table III gives the product of the magnitude of the field into the radius of curvature of the path .
We have then where , and are the mass , velocity and charge of the -particle .
Taking account of the change in mass of the -corpuscle with velocity we have where is the velocity of light .
Assuming value , , for , these equations enable us to calculate .
The product of the first two columns is equal to , the values of which are given in the third column of the table .
The fourth column gives the corresponding values of , the thickness of aluminium necessary to cut down the radiation through the fixed aperture to one-half .
According to either of the equations A or , the quotient should be stant .
The values of this quantity are given in the last column of the table , and it be seen that there is a satisfactory agreement between the theory and the experimental results .
Though the actual range of velocities is not great , yet owing to the rapid change in mass with change of velocity which occurs for these fast moving particles , the value of which is what we are really concerned with , increases more than threefold * Bucherer , ' Ann. .
Phys 1909 , vol. 28 , p. 524 .
238 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
Scattering of Homogeneous [ June 18 , in the course of the series .
Tbis is a sufficient proportional increase to afford a reasonable test of the Having now obtained satisfactory evidence that , in the three directions where it lends itself to experimental verification , the theory of Prof. Thomson does express the experimental facts concerning the scattering of homogeneous -rays , we may now proceed to apply it to the determination of the number of electrons contained in an atom of the various elements concerned .
On the Number of Electrons in an Atom .
We are presented in equations ( A ) and ( B ) with two different solutions of the problem , based on two different assumptions ; the first , on the assumption that the positive electricity is uniformly distributed through the atom , the second , on the assumption that it is segregated into small units , comparable in size with the negative electron .
Since both expressions lead to the pame experimental laws , the present experiments , taken by themselves , do not enable us to decide between them .
I have , therefore , calculated the value of , the number of corpuscles in the atom , from both expressions , and both values are given in Table .
We shall see , however , when we come to consider the results that , in the light of other experiments , we must regard the hypothesis as giving the true result .
From equation ( A ) we have where is the average deflection produced in passing through a thickness If is a given angle ( fixed by the stop employed ) , and the corresponding thickness of material required to cut down the radiation through the stop to one-half , we can easily show , from equation , that Substituting in equation ( A ) we get where is the number of corpuscles.in the atom , the number of atoms per unit volume , the charge on the -particle in electrostatic units .
The value assumed for is that given by Rutherford* in his paper on the charge on the particle , namely .
units ; and has been calculated for each element employed from the atomic weight and the density , the mass of the hydrogen atom being taken as grammes .
The * Rutherford and Geiger , 'Boy .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , vol. 81 , p. 162 .
1910 .
] -Rays the Number of Electrons in the Atom .
values of and the mass and velocity of the incident -particles are known from the present experiments .
The value of HR for the field used in the experiments was 3420 ( Gauss centimetres ) , this the field which gave the maximum -ray effect in the ionisation chamber .
The corresponding values of 1 and are cm . .
and grammes respectively .
Substituting these values , we get from ( A ) and from ) The value of , the ratio of the volume of the positive electrification to the volume of the atom , on the assumption that the positive electricity is aggregated into small discrete bundles , is not known .
If we assume that the bundles are similar in size to the negative electrons , will be negligibly small .
In any case it must be less than unity .
In the results given in Column 5 of Table , we have assumed that it lnsy be neglected .
If , however , it has the maximum value 1 , the results in this column would merely have to be multiplied by the factor Table * The values for carbon 1 , ere calculated from results obtained in scattering by thin films of caoutchouc .
This sulstance contains 90 per cent. carbon , the remaining 10 per cent. being hydrogen .
It was assumed in the calculations that the number of corpuscles in an atom of hydrogen had the same ratio to the atomic weight as in the carbon atom .
The weight drogen present is very small and cannot seriously affect the result .
Table contains the results obtained for five different elements .
The first column contains the name of the element , the second its atomic weight , the third the observed value of the constant .
In each case the value given is the mean of several concordant results , using stops of different sizes , and therefore different values of .
The fourth and fifth columns give 240 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
Scattering ofHomogeneous [ June 18 , the values of , the number of electrons in the atom , on the two different assurnptions ( A ) and ( B ) .
Columns 6 and 7 give the ratio of the number of electrons in the atom to the atomic weight , on the two assumptions .
It will at once be noticed that the ratio of the number of electrons in the atom to the atomic weight , calculated on the hypothesis ( A ) that the positive electricity is distributed uniformly the atom , is remarkably constant ; while , on the other hand , the results obtained on the contrary hypothesis ( B ) , that the positive electricity is in an electronic condition in the atom , lead to a very rapid increase in this ratio with increasing atomic weight ; the ratio for platinum being nearly nine times that for carbon .
This holds good whatever value is assumed for From other considerations , and in particular from a consideration of the scattering of the ontgen rays by gases , it seems very probable that the number of corpuscles in an atom is , at any rate , very nearly proportional to theatomic weight .
It has been shown*that for gases in which the homogeneous secondary radiation is not excited , the amount of primary radiation scattered by the gas is simply proportional to the mass of gas present , and practically independent of its chemical nature .
This leads us at once to the conclusion that the number of electrons present in the atom is simply proportional to the atomic weight .
It is quite incompatible with such a large increase in the ratio of to the atomic weight as is given by equation ( B ) .
We must conclude , therefore , that the positive electricity in the atom is not in a state comparable to that of the electron , but thab it occupies such comparatively large volumes as to be capable of being considered as uniformly distributed over the whole atom .
Taking the values of the ratio of to the atomic weight given by equation ( A ) , therefore , we see that the mean value of this ratio is very nearly 30 , and that , with the exception of the results for carbon , which are open to a little uncertainty , the maximum variations from this value do not amount to more than about 4 per cent. This is not greater than the possible errors of the experiment , and there is no indication of any systematic variation in the ratio either with density or with atomic weight .
We conclude , therefore , that the number of electrons in an atom is equal to three times the atomic Any error in the measuremen of the magnetic field would of course affect the results to very nearly the same extent .
As the velocity varies very slowly with the magnetic field , any error introduced from this cause would be proportionately equal to the error in the measurement of the field .
The magnetic field was measured with a Grassot fluxmeter which had been * J. A. Crowther , ' Phil. Mag 1907 , vol. 14 , p. 653 .
tested immediatel before tbtainedl 9lectrons i this instrument were very constant , and it is hardly posslble that any serious error should have crept in from this source .
On the of Homogmeous If in our experiments we make , that is to say , if we include the whole of the rays which emerge at the further side of the absorbing sheet , we return to the conditions of an absorption experiment .
As the thickness necessary to cut down the emergent radiation to one-half varies as the square of the emergent , it is evident that much greater thicknesses of material will be required for such experiments than is the case where the is kept small .
The theory of the scattering of the rays , with which we have been dealing , only strictly applies to very thin sheets of material , and should expect discrepancies to arise from the mere increase in the thickness of the absorbing sheet .
In addition to this , we have also the } ) lications introduced by the gradual change in velocity of the rays during their passage through such sheets .
However , it was that experiments on the absorption of a beam of homogeneous -rays , from this point of view , might prove interesting , and might help to elucidate the results obtained by Wilson .
The vacuum chamber was removed , the exit tube being closed with a thin aluminium window ( cm .
thick ) .
The absorption due to this window could be obtained by extrapolation from the experimental curve .
It was , vever , igible .
ionisation chamber was replaced by one of hemispherical shape , again in order to ensure that all the rays emerging from , at whatever , should have the same length of path in the ionisation chamber .
By means of metal slides , sheets of absorbing substance of different thicknesses could be inserted in the path of the rays at D. The methods of measurement were otherwise the same as those described above .
Experiments were made with aluminium and platinum .
The results obtained are given in Table , and the values of aluminium are plotted against the thickness in fig. 5 On comparing this curve with the curve for the scattering by aluminium , it will be at once perceived that both have the same general characteristics .
The intensity of the transmitted radiation at first decreases very slowly as the thickness of the absorbing sheet is increased , then more rapidly , and finally more slowly again as the curve approaches the axis of .
Owing to the small amount of radiation transmitted it was impossible to determine the exact shape of this last portion of the curve .
It did not differ appreciably from an exponential curve .
FIG. 5 .
Turning again to the table , we find that the values of given in the last column of the table remain appreciably constant until a thickness of about cm .
is eached ; after this point they begin to show a rapid decrease .
Taking the first portion of the curve then , and calculating the corresponding value of as before , we obtain the value given below the dotted line in Table II .
As will be seen from that table , this value agrees well with the values obtained from the experiments on the scattering .
The first stage in the absorption of such a homogeneous pencil of rays 1910 .
-Rays and the Number of Electrons in the Atom .
243 as we have been considering consists , therefore , in the scattenng or diffusion of the beam according to the laws we have already considered .
We may now attempt to give some explanation of the " " linear\ldquo ; law propounded by W. Wilson .
* The curves given in his paper for aluminium , which is the only element for which he gives the figures , differ from the one drawn in fig. 5 principally in not showing the initial radual decrease and the first point of inflection .
In general , they do show the gradual bending round of the final portion along the axis of , though Wilson himself seems inclined to ascribe this result to experimental imperfections .
Now in Wilson 's experiments the -rays fall upon absorbing sheets in a fairly narrow pencil ; they should , therefore , exhibit the effects of scattering as described aboYe .
On the other hand , as the beiim was not deflected in a vacuum , but was passing through air along its whole course , it was already partially scattered before it fell upon the absorbing sheets .
Thus the portion of the scattering which corresponds to the nearly horizontal initial portion of the curve had taken place before his measurements commenced .
It will be seen that the middle portion of the curve in fig. 5 is approximately a straight line .
Turning now to the case of platinum ( fig. 6 ) , the presents a somewhat different appearance .
Here again , however , if we consider only the first portion of the curve , that is to say , the portion corresponding to thicknesses less than cm .
, the results connect themselves , as in the case of aluminium , with the experiments on scattering described above , the value of * W. Wilson , ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 , p. 612 .
1910 .
] -Rays and the Number of Electrons in the Atom .
exponential law .
The lower dotted curve on the same diagram gives the actual values of , while for sake of comparison the absorption curve of fig. 5 is also reproduced on the same scale .
It will be seen that these two curves eventually coincide .
It seems probable , therefore , that the apparent difference in the results obtained for platinum and aluminium is one of only , and that , as suggested above , the homogeneous rays after ; in aluminium also follow an exponential law of absorption .
We are thus led to the conclusion that , while the scattering of a parallel pencil of homogeneous -rays , and hence also the first stages in the absorption of a parallel pencil , takes place according to the laws considered in the first part of this paper , the absorption of the completely scattered beam follows an exponential law .
Wilson , who regarded his " " linear\ldquo ; curves as giving the true law of absorption for homogeneous rays , has attempted to show that an exponential law of absorption is due to a peculiar distribution of velocities in the rays employed .
It seems much more probable , however , from the above results that the exponential is the true absorption law for completely scattered -radiation of uniform velocity , whether it from a layer of radioactive material , or has been originally separated out by a magnetic field , and afterwards scattered in some absorbing substance .
In a recent paper Baeyer and Hahn*have published some excellent photographs of the magnetic spectra of various radioactive substances and their mixtures , from which it seems clear that the velocity of the -rays emitted by any one radioactive substance , such as radium , or the diffe1ent thorium products , is , if not absolutely constant , at any rate confined within very narrow limits , and H. W. announces a similar result for the -rays from uranium X , though ( in a paper recently read before this Society , the details of which are not to hand at the time of writing ) has failed to observe any such effect .
It may be pointed out that the absorption coefficients obtained for platinum and aluminium after the scattering of the rays in platinum foil are in good reement with the values to be expected from the velocity of the incident eneous rays .
The velocity of the homogeneous beam used in these experiments was cm .
, and the values obtained for ( the coefficient of absorption divided by the density ) for platinuln and aluminium after the scattering of the rays were and respectively .
The rays from uranium X , according to Schmidt , have .
Baeyer and Hahn , ' Phys. Zeit 1910 , vol. 11 , p. 488 .
H. W. Schmidt , ' Phys. Zeit , vol. 11 , p. 265 .
H. W. Schmidt , ' Le Radium , ' 1909 , vol. 6 , p. 5 .
VOL. LXXXIV.\mdash ; A. results for the absorption of glass very similar to those obtained by ionisation methods .
It would seem , therefore , that the absorption involves the actual stoppage of a certain proportion of the -particles in each layer of absorbing material , the number stopped in a given small thickness being proportional to the total number actually present .
Further experiments on this point might prove interesting .
Summary .
I. The scattering of a homogeneous pencil of -rays has been measured for various substances and for rays of different velocity .
It has been shown to obey the following laws : ( i ) For rays of given velocity the intensity I of the radiation contained within a given cone may be expressed by the equation\mdash ; where is the thickness of material passed ough by the rays , and is a constant , depending upon the angle of the cone .
( ii ) For rays of given velocity the most probable angle of emergence is proportional to the square root of the thickness of material traversed by the rays .
( iii ) For rays of different velocity the probable angle of emergence divided by the square root of the thickness traversed is inversely proportional to the product of the mass of the -particle and the square of its velocity .
II .
From equations given by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , the number of electrons contained in atoms of different elements is calculated .
It is found\mdash ; ( i ) That the ratio of the number of electrons in an atom to the atomic weight is constant , the value of the ratio being very nearly for all the elements examined .
* J. A. Crowther , ' Phil. Mag 1906 , vol. Makower , 'Phil .
Mag January , 1909 .
, ( ii ) That ositive electricity within tmplitude an condition , but is distributed fairly uniformly through the atom .
III .
Experiments are described on the absorption of the homogeneous -rays .
It is shown that the first stage in the absorption of a pencil of homogeneous -rays consists in the scattering of the rays .
The absorption of a completely scattered beam of homogeneous -rays is shown to take place according to an exponential law .
In conclusion , I have much pleasure in once more recording my best thanks to Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for much inspiration and advice the course of these experiments .
Aerial Plane Waves of Finite Amplitude .
By LORD RAYLEIGH , O.M. , F.R.S. ( Received July 8 , 1910 .
) Waves of Finite plitudc without In the investigations which follow , we are concerned with the motion of an elastic fluid in one dimension , say , parallel to .
It is implied not only that there are no component velocities perpendicular to , but that the motion is the same in any perpendicular plane , so that it is a function of and of the time ( t ) only .
If be the velocity at any point the pressure , the density , X an impressed force , the dynamical equation for an inviscid fluid is .
( 1 ) At the same time the " " equation of continuity\ldquo ; takes the form .
( 2 ) The first step , and it was a very important one , in the treatment of waves of finite amplitude is due to Poisson .
* Under the assumption of Boyle 's law , , he proved that for waves travelling in one direction ( positive ) the circumstances of the propagation are expressed by , ( 3 ) " " Memoir sir la orie d Son 'Journ .
de l'Ecole Polytechnique , 1808 , vol. 7 p. 319 .

