376 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , November 30 , 1893 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Report of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , on the part of the Society , was presented as follows :\#151 ; " The total receipts on the General Account during the past year , including balances carried from the preceding year and the proceeds of the sale of stock , amount to \#163 ; 24,184 , and the total receipts on account of Trust Funds , including balances from the preceding year , amount to \#163 ; 7,255 Os .
11\lt ; 2 .
The total expenditure for the same period , including investments , amounts to \#163 ; 21,298 8s .
on the General Account , and \#163 ; 4,585 Is .
6d .
on account of Trust Funds , leaving a balance on the General Account of \#163 ; 2,875 16s .
6d .
at the bankers ' , and \#163 ; 10 3s .
4 d.in the hands of the Treasurer , and a balance at the bankers ' on account of Trust Funds of \#163 ; 2,669 19s .
5d .
" The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
The Secretary then read the following Lists :\#151 ; Fellows deceased since the last Anniversary ( Nov. 30 , 1892 ) .
On the Home List .
Blanford , Henry Francis , F.G.S. I Jago , James , M.D. Clark , Sir Andrew , Bart. , M.D. Owen , Sir Richard , K.C.B. Derby , Henry Edward Stanley , j Pritchard , Rev. Charles , D.D. Earl of , K.G. j Rae , John , LL. D. Fletcher , Thomas William , Colo- j Stainton , Henry Tibbats , F.L.S. nel , M.A. I Walker , Edward , M.A. Hawksley , Thomas , M. Inst. C.E. { On the Foreign List .
De Candolle , Alphonse .
Kummer , Ernst Eduard .
Change of Name and Title .
Bowen , Sir Charles , to Lord Bowen .
Fellow s elected since the last Anniversaiy .
Loyal .
H.R.H. the Duke of York , K.G. President 's Address .
1893 .
] Burnside , ProfessorWilliam , M.A. Dunstan , Professor Wyndham R. , M.A. Ellis , William , F.R.A.S. Ewart , Professor J. Cossar , M.D. Gairdner , Professor William Tenant , M.D. Hobson , Ernest William , D.Sc .
Howortb , Sir Heni'y Hoyle , K.C.I.E. Morley , Right Hon. John , M.A. Hewton , Edwin Tulley , P.G.S. Sherrington , Charles Scott , M.D. Stirling , Edward C. , M.D. Thornycroft , John Isaac , M. Inst. C.E. Trail , Professor James William Helenus , M.D. Wallace , Alfred Russel , LL. D. Worthington , Professor Arthur Mason , M.A. Young , Pi'ofessor Sydney , D.Sc .
The President then addressed the Society as follows:\#151 ; Since our last Anniversary Meeting , the Royal Society has lost 11 Fellows on the Home List , and 2 Foreign Members .
Henry Tibbats Stainton , December 2 , 1892 , aged 70 .
Sir Richard Owen , December 18 , 1892 , aged 89 .
Dr. James Jago , January 18 , 1893 , aged 77 .
Henry Francis Blanford , January 23 , 1893 , aged 58 .
Thomas William Fletcher , February 1 , 1893 , aged 84 .
Edward Walker , March 2 , 1893 , aged 73 .
Alphonse de Candolle , March 28 , 1893 , aged 87 .
Henry Edward Stanley , Earl of Dei by , April 21 , 1893 , aged 67 .
Ernest Edward Kummer , May 14 , 1893 , aged 84 .
Rev. Charles Pritchard , May 28 , 1893 , aged 85 .
Dr. John Rae , July 22 , 1893 , aged 80 .
Thomas Hawksley , September 23 , 1893 , aged 86 .
Sir Andrew Clark , Bart. , November 6 , 1893 , aged 67 .
Biographical notices will be found in the Proceedings .
During the past session our standing committees have been as active as ever .
The Library Committee have again had before them the question of finding accommodation to meet the l'apid growth of our Library .
One measure which , with the consent cf the Council , they have adopted to this end has been to part with a number of the literary and philosophical series of transactions published by those societies which are not , like our own , purely scientific .
In some cases these series are being retuimed to the institutions who gave them ; in others , where this is not desired , they are presented to libi'aries in which they will be of greater use than in our own .
The House and Soiree Committee have held more than their usual^ number of meetings ; and , acting upon their advice , the Council ap378 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , pointed a Special Committee to arrange for the better accommodation of the Fellows at their ordinary meetings and of their visitors at the Annual Soirees .
Upon the first floor a new doorway has been provided , which , it is hoped , will help to a freer circulation on the crowded nights of our Soirees , and on the ground floor , besides the rearrangement of the meeting-room and the provision of a lecture table , and additional accommodation for diagrams , a preparation room is being fitted with suitable appliances for the use of those who are willing to illustrate their papers by experiment . .
The generous gift of \#163 ; 2000 presented by our Fellow Mr. Ludwig Mond , in the early part of the session , to aid the work of the Catalogue of Scientific Papers , ' has enabled the Catalogue Committee not only to carry on the current work of the Catalogue , which want of funds threatened to cripple , but also to take into consideration wider schemes than it was possible to contemplate before .
The Committee have met several times during the past session , and it is hoped that the long-desired Subject Index may yet become an accomplished fact .
The Water Research Committee have continued their labours , and a Second Report on the vitality of microscopic pathogenic organisms in large bodies of water , dealing with the vitality and virulence of Bacillus anthracis and its spores , the result of Messrs. Percy Frank-land and Marshall Ward 's researches , has been completed during the past session and published in our * Proceedings.* Except that additional assistants have been employed in the Catalogue Department , our staff remains unchanged .
During the past year , in the Mathematical and Physical Section of the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 21 papers have been published , and in the Biological Section , 10 ; the two sections together containing a total of 1775 pages of letter-press , and 70 plates .
Of the * Proceedings , ' 12 numbers have been issued , containing 1282 pages arifl 19 plates .
t Not the least important of the scientific events of the year is the publication , in the original German and in an English translation by Professor D. E. Jones , of a collection of Hertz 's papers describing the researches by which he was led up to the experimental demonstration of magnetic waves ; For this work the Rumford Medal of the Royal Society was delivered to Professor Hertz three years ago by my predecessor , Sir George Stokes .
To fully appreciate the book now given to the world , we must carry our minds back to the early days of the Royal Society , when Newton 's ideas regarding the forces which he saw to be implied in Kepler 's laws of the motions of the Planets and of the Moon were frequent subjects of discussion at its regular meetings and at perhaps even more important non-official conferences among its fellows .
In 1684 the Senior Secretary of the Royal Society , Dr. Halley , President 's Address .
1893 .
] went to Cambridge to consult Mr. Newton on the subject of the production of the elliptic motion of the Planets by a central force , * and on the 10th of December of that year he announced to the Royal Society that he " had seen Mr. Newton 's book , ' De Motu Corporum .
' " Some time later , Halley was requested to " remind Mr. Newton of his promise to enter an account of his discoveries in the register of the Society , " with the result that the great work ' Philosophise Naturalis Principia Mathematica ' was dedicated to the Royal Society , was actually presented in manuscript , and was communicated at an ordinary meeting of the Society on the 28th of April 1686 by Dr. Vincent .
In acknowledgment , it was ordered " that a letter of thanks be written to Mr. Newton , and that the printing of his book be referred to the consideration of the Council ; and that in the meantime the book be put into the hands of Mr. Halley , to make a report thereof to the Council .
" On the 19th of May following , the Society resolved that " Mr. Newton 's ' Philosophise Naturalis Principia Mathematica ' be printed forthwith in quarto , in a fair letter ; and that a letter be written to him to signify the Society 's resolution , and to desire his opinion as to the volume , cuts , \amp ; c. " An exceedingly interesting letter was accordingly written to Newton by Halley , dated London , May 22 , 1686 , which we find printed in full in Weld 's 'History of the Royal Society ' ( vol. 1 , pp. 308\#151 ; 309 ) .
But the Council knew more than the Royal Society at large of its power to do what it wished to do .
Biology was much to the front then , as now , and the publication of Willughby 's book , ' De Historia Piscium , ' had exhausted the Society 's finances to such an extent that the salaries even of its officers were in arrears .
Accordingly , at the Council meeting of the 2nd of June , it was ordered that " Mr. Newton 's book be printed , and that Mr. Halley undertake the business of looking after it , and printing it at his own charge , which he engaged to do .
" It seems that at that time the office of Treasurer must have been in abeyance ; but with such a Senior Secretary as Dr. Halley there was no need for a Treasurer .
Halley , having accepted copies of Willughby 's book , wThich had * been offered to him in lieu of payment of arrears of salaryf * Wliewell 's ' History of the Inductive Sciences , ' vol. 2 , p. 77 .
f It is recorded in the Minutes of Council that the arrears of salary due to Hooke and Halley were resolved to be paid by copies of Willughby 's work .
Halley appears to have assented to this unusual proposition , but Hooke wisely " desired six months ' time to consider of the acceptance of such payment .
" The publication of the ' Historia Piscium , ' in an edition of 500 copies , cost the Society \#163 ; 400 .
It is worthy of remark , as illustrative of the small sale which scientific books met with in England at this period , that , a considerable time after the publication of Willughby 's work , Halley was ordered by the Council to endeavour to effect a sale of several copies with a bookseller at Amsterdam , as appears in a letter 380 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , due to him , cheerfully undertook the printing of the * Principia ' at his own expense , and entered instantly on the duty of editing it with admirable zeal and energy , involving , as it did , expostulations , arguments , and entreaties to Newton not to cut out large parts of the work which he wished to suppress* as being too slight and popular , and as being possibly liable to provoke questions of priority .
It was well said by Rigaud , in his ' Essay on the first publication of the Principia , ' that " under the circumstances , it is hardly possible to form a sufficient estimate of the immense obligation which the world owes in this respect to Halley , without whose great zeal , able management , unwearied perseverance , scientific attainments , and disinterested generosity* the ' Principia ' might never have been published."t Those who know how much worse than " law 's delays " are the troubles* cares , and labour involved in bringing through the press a book on any scientific subject at the present day will admire Halley 's success in getting the ' Principia ' published withiu about a year after the task was committed to him by the Royal Society , two-hundred years ago .
When Newton 's theory of universal gravitation was thus made known to the world Descartes ' Vortice , an invention supposed to be a considerable improvement on the older invention of crystal cycles and epi-cycles from which it was evolved , was generally accepted* and seems to have been regarded as quite satisfactory by nearly all the philosophers of the day .
The idea that the Sun pulls Jupiter , and Jupiter pulls back against the Sun with equal force , and that the Sun , Earth , Moon , and Planets all act on one another with mutual attractions , seemed to violate the supposed philosophic principle that matter cannot act where it is not .
Descartes 's doctrine died hard among the mathematicians and philosophers of Continental Europe ; and for the first quarter of last century belief in universal gravitation was an insularity of our countrymen .
from Halley requesting Boyle , then at Rotterdam , to do all in his power to give-publicity to the boot .
When the Society resolved on Halley 's undertaking to measure a degree of the Earth , it was voted that " he be given \#163 ; 50 or fifty ' Books-of Fishes ' " ( Weld 's ' History of the Eoyal Society , ' vol. 1 , p. 310 ) .
* " The third [ book ] I now design to suppress .
Philosophy is such an impertinently litigious lady that a man had as good be engaged in lawsuits as have to do with her .
I found it so formerly , and now X am no sooner come near her again but she gives me warning .
The first two books without the third will not so well bear the title of ' Philosophise Natural is Principia Mathematica , ' and therefore I have altered it to this , ' De Motu Corporum Eibri duo " j but , upon second thoughts , I retain the former title .
'Twill help the sale of the book , which I ought not to diminish now'tis yours " ( ibid. , p. 311 ) .
f Ibid. , p. 310 .
President 's Address .
Voltaire , during a visit which he made to England in 1727 , wrote : " A Frenchman who arrives in London finds a great alteration in philosophy , as in other things .
He left the world full ; he finds it empty .
At Paris you see the universe composed of vortices of subtle matter ; at London we see nothing of the kind .
With you it is the pressure of the Moon which causes the tides of the sea ; in England it is the sea which gravitates towards the Moon .
... You will observe also that the Sun , which in France has nothing to do with the business , here comes in for a quarter of it .
Among you Cartesians all is done by impulsion : with the Newtonians it is done by an attraction of which we know the cause no better."* Indeed , the Newtonian opinions had scarcely any disciples in France till Voltaire asserted their claims on his return from England in 1728 .
Till then , as he himself says , there were not twenty Newtonians out of England . !
In the second quarter of the century sentiment and opinion in France , Germany , Switzerland , and Italy experienced a great change .
The mathematical prize questions proposed by the French Academy naturally brought the two sets of opinions into conflict .
A Cartesian memoir of John Bernoulli was the one which gained the prize in 1730 .
It not infrequently happened that the Academy , as if desirous to show its impartiality , divided the prize between Cartesians and Newtonians .
Thus , in 1734 , the question being the cause of the inclination of the orbits of the planets , the prize- was shared between John Bernoulli , whose memoir was founded on the system of vortices , and his son Daniel , who was a Newtonian .
The last act of homage of this kind to the Cartesian system was performed in 1740 , when the prize on the question of the tides was distributed between Daniel Bernoulli , Euler , Maclaurin , and Cavallieri ; the last of whom had tried to amend and patch up the Cartesian hypothesis on this subject.^ On the 4th of February , 1744 , Daniel Bernoulli wrote as follows to Euler : " Uebrigens glaube ich , dass der Aether sowohl gravis versus solem , als die Luft versus terram sey , und kann Ihnen night bergen , dass ich fiber diese Puncte ein volliger Newtonianer bin , vnd verwuu-dere ich mich , dass sie den Principiis Cartesianis so lang adhariren ; Z es mochte wohl einige Passion vielleicht mit unterlaufen .
Hat Got konnen eine animam , deren Natur uns unbegreiflich ist , erschaffen , so hat er auch konnen eine attractionem universalem materiae im~ primiren , wenn gleich solche attractio supra captum ist , da hingegen die Principia Cartesiana allzeit contra twas involviren .
" Here the writer , expressing wonder that Euler had so long adhered * Wliewell 's 'History of the Inductive Sciences , ' vol. 2 , pp. 202\#151 ; 203 .
f Ibid. , voi .
2 , p. 201 .
X Ibid. , vol. 2 , pp. 198 , 199 .
382 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Ndv .
30 , to the Cartesian principles , declares himself a thorough-going Newtonian , not merely in respect to gravitation versus vortices , hut in believing that matter may have been created simply with the law of universal attraction without the aid of any gravific medium or mechanism. .
But in this he was more Newtonian than Newton himself .
Indeed Newton was not a Newtonian , according to Daniel Bernoulli 's idea of Newtonianism , for in his letter to Bentley of date 25th February , 1692 , * he wrote : " That gravity should be innate , inherent , and essential to matter , so that one body may act upon another at a distance through a vacuum without the mediation of anything else , by and through which their action and force may be conveyed from one to another , is to me so great an absurdity that I believe no man who has in philosophical matters a competent faculty of thinking can ever fall into it .
" Thus Newton , in giving out his great law , did not abandon the idea that matter cannot act where it is not .
In respect , however , merely of philosophic thought , we must feel that Daniel Bernoulli was right ; we can conceive the Sun attracting Jupiter , and Jupiter attracting the Sun , without any intermediate medium , if they are ordered to do so .
But the question remains\#151 ; Are they so ordered ?
Nevertheless , I believe all , or nearly all , his scientific contemporaries agreed with Daniel Bernoulli in answering this question affirmatively .
Very soon after the middle of the eighteenth century Father Boscovichf gave his brilliant doctrine ( if infinitely improbable theory ) that elastic rigidity of solids , the elasticity of compressible liquids and gases , the attractions of chemical affinity and cohesion , the forces of electricity and magnetism\#151 ; in short , all the properties of matter except heat , which he attributed to a sulphureous fermenting essence\#151 ; are to be explained by mutual attractions and repulsions , varying solely with distances , between mathematical points endowed also , each of them , with inertia .
Before the end of the eighteenth century the idea of action-at-a-dis-tance through absolute vacuum had become so firmly established , and Boscovich 's theory so unqualifiedly accepted as a reality , that the idea of gravitational force or electric force or magnetic force being propagated through and by a medium seemed as wild to the naturalists and mathematicians of 100 years ago as action-at-a-distance had seemed to Newton and his contemporaries 100 years earlier .
But a retrogression from the eighteenth century school of science set in early in the nineteenth century .
Faraday , with his curved lines of electric force , and his dielectric * * The Correspondence of Richard Bentley , D.D. , ' vol. 1 , p. 70 .
t Theoria Philosophise Naturalis redacta ad unicam legem virium in natura existentium auctore P. Rogerio Josepho Boscovich , Societatis Jesu , ' 1st edition , Vienna , 1758 j 2nd edition , amended and extended by the author , Venice , 1763 .
President 's .
1893 .
] efficiency of air and of liquid and solid insulators , resuscitated the idea of a medium through which , and not only through which but by which , forces of attraction or repulsion , seemingly acting at a distance , are transmitted .
The long struggle of the first half of the eighteenth century was not merely on the question of a medium to serve for gravific mechanism , but on the correctness of the Newtonian law of gravitation as a matter of fact however explained .
The corresponding controversy in the nineteenth century was very short , and it soon became obvious that Faraday 's idea of the transmission of electric force by a medium not only did not violate Coulomb 's law of relation between force and distance , but that , if real , it must give a thorough explanation of that law.* Nevertheless , after Faraday s discovery " ) " of the different specific inductive capacities of different insulators , twenty years passed before it was generally accepted in Continental Europe .
But before his death , in 1867 , he had succeeded in inspiring the rising generation of the scientific world with something approaching to faith that electric force is transmitted by a medium called ether , of which , as had been believed by the whole scientific world for 40 years , light and radiant heat are transverse vibrations .
Faraday himself did not rest with this theory for electricity alone .
The very last time I saw him at work in the Royal Institution was in an underground cellar , which he had chosen for freedom from disturbance ; and he was arranging experiments to test the time of propagation of magnetic force from an electro-magnet ; through a distance of many yards of air to a fine steel needle polished to reflect light ; but no result came from those experiments .
About the same time or soon after , certainly not long before the end of his working time , he was engaged ( I believe at the shot tower near Waterloo Bridge on the Surrey side ) in efforts to discover relations between gravity and magnetism , which also led to no result .
Absolutely nothing has hitherto been done for gravity either by experiment or observation towards deciding between Newton and Bernoulli , as to the question of its propagation through a medium , and up to the present time we have no light , even so much as to point a way for investigation , in that direction .
But for electricity and magnetism , Faraday 's anticipations and Clerk-Maxwell 's splendidly developed theory have been established on the sure basis of experiment by Hertz 's work , of which his own most interesting account is this year presented to the world in the German and English volumes to which I have referred .
It is interesting to know , as Hertz explains in his introduction , and it is very important in respect to the experi- # * Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' Sir W. Thomson , Arts .
I ( 1842 ) and II ( 1845 ) , particularly S 25 of Art .
II .
f 1837 , ' Experimental Researches , ' 1161\#151 ; 1306 .
384 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , mental demonstration of magnetic waves to which he was led that he began his electric researches in a problem happily put before him thirteen years ago by Professor von Helmholtz , of which the object was to find by experiment some relation between electromagnetic forces and dielectric polarisation of insulators , without , in the first place , any idea of discovering a progressive propagation of those forces through space .
It was by sheer perseverance in philosophical experimenting that Hertz was led to discover a finite velocity of propagation of electromagnetic action , and then to pass on to electromagnetic waves in air and their reflection , and to be able to say , as he says in a short reviewing sentence at the end of his eighth paper : " Certainly it is a fascinating idea that the processes in air which we have been investigating , represent to us on a million-fold larger scale the same processes which go on in the neighbourhood of a Fresnel mirror , or between the glass plates used for exhibiting Newton 's rings .
" Professor Oliver Lodge has done well , in connection with Hertz 's work , to call attention* to old experiments , and ideas taken from them , by Joseph Henry , which came more nearly to an experimental demonstration of electromagnetic waves than anything that had been done previously .
Indeed Henry , after describing experiments showing powerful enough induction due to a single spark from the prime conductor of an electric machine to magnetise steel needles at a distance of 30 ft. in a cellar beneath with two floors and ceilings intervening , says that he is " disposed to adopt the hypothesis of an electrical plenum , " and concludes with a short reviewing sentence : " It may be further inferred that the diffusion of motion in this case is almost comparable with that of a spark from a flint and steel in the case of light .
" Professor Oliver Lodge himself did admirable work in his investigations with reference to lightning rods , + coming very near to experimental demonstrations of electromagnetic waves ; and he drew important lessons regarding " electrical surgings " in an insulated bar of metal " induced by Maxwell 's and Heaviside 's electromagnetic waves , " and many other corresponding phenomena manifested both in ingenious and excellent experiments devised by himself and in natural effects of lightning .
Of electrical surgings or waves in a shoht insulated wire , and of interference between ordinary and reflected waves , and positive electricity appearing where negative might have been expected , we hear first , it seems , in Herr von Bezold 's " Researches on the Electric Discharge " ( 1870 ) , which Hertz gives as the third paper of his * * Modern Views of Electricity , ' pp. 369\#151 ; 372 .
.f* ' Lightning Conductors and Lightning Guards , ' Oliver J. Lodge , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Whittaker and Co. President 's Address .
1893 .
] collection , with interesting and ample recognition of its importance in relation to his own work .
In connexion with the practical development of magnetic waves , you will , I am sure , be pleased if I call your attention to two papers by Professor G. F. Fitzgerald , which I heard myself at the meeting of the British Association at Southport , in 1883 .
One of them is entitled " On a Method of Producing Electromagnetic Disturbances of comparatively Short Wave-lengths .
" The paper itself is not long , and I shall read it to you in full , from the ' Report of the British Association , ' 1883 : " This is by utilising the alternating currents produced when an accumulator is discharged through a small resistance .
It is possible to produce waves of as little as 2 metres wave-length , or even less .
" This was a brilliant and useful suggestion .
Hertz , not knowing of it , used the method ; and , making as little as possible of the " accumulator , " got waves of as little as 24 cm .
wave-length in many of his fundamental experiments .
The title alone of Fitzgerald 's other paper , " On the Energy Lost by Radiation from Alternating Currents , " is in itself a valuable lesson in the electromagnetic theory of light , or the undulatory theory of magnetic disturbance .
It is interesting to compare it with the title of Hertz 's eleventh paper , " Electric Radiation " ; but I cannot refer to this paper without expressing the admiration and delight with which I see the words " rectilinear propagation , " " polarisation , " " reflection , " " refraction , " appearing in it as sub-titles .
During the 56 years which have passed since Faraday first offended physical mathematicians with his curved lines of force , many workers and many thinkers have helped to build up the nineteenth century school of plenum ; one ether for light , heat , electricity , magnetism ; and the German and English volumes containing Hertz 's electrical papers , given to the world in the last decade of the century , will be a permanent monument of the splendid consummation now realised .
But , splendid as this consummation is , we must not fold our hands and think or say there are no more worlds to conquer for electrical science .
We do know something now of magnetic waves .
We know that they exist in nature and that they are in perfect accord with Maxwell 's beautiful theory .
But this theory teaches us nothing of the actual motions of matter constituting a magnetic wave .
Some definite motion of matter perpendicular to the lines of alternating magnetic force in the waves and to the direction of propagation of the action through space , there must be ; and it seems almost satisfactory as a hypothesis to suppose that it is chiefly a motion of ether with a comparatively small but not inconsiderable loading by fringes of ponderable molecules carried with it .
This makes Maxwell 's " electric displacement ' simply a to-and-fro motion of ether across the line 386 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , of propagation , that is to say , precisely the vibrations in the undula-tory theory of light according to Fresnel .
But we have as yet absolutely no guidance towards any understanding or imagining of the relation between this simple and definite alternating motion , or any other motion or displacement of the ether , and the earliest known phenomena of electricity and magnetism\#151 ; the electrification of matter , and the attractions and repulsions of electrified bodies ; the permanent magnetism of lodestone and steel , and the attractions and repulsions due to it : and certainly we are quite as far from the clue to explaining , by ether or otherwise , the enormously greater forces of attraction and repulsion now so well known after the modern discovery of electromagnetism .
Fifty years ago it became strongly impressed on my mind that the difference of quality between vitreous and resinous electricity , conventionally called positive and negative , essentially ignored as it is in the mathematical theories of electricity and magnetism with which I was then much occupied ( and in the whole science of magnetic waves as we have it now ) , must be studied if we are to learn anything of the nature of electricity and its place among the properties of matter .
This distinction , essential and fundamental as it is in frictional electricity , electro-chemistry , thermo-electricity , pyroelectricity of crystals , and piezo-electricity of crystals , had been long observed in the old known beautiful appearances of electric glow and brushes and sparks from points and corners on the conductors of ordinary electric machines and in exhausted receivers of air-pumps with electricity passed through them .
It was also known , probably as many as fifty years ago , in the vast difference of behaviour of the positive and negative electrodes of the electric arc lamp .
Faraday gave great attention to it* in experiments and observations regarding electric sparks , glows , and brushes , and particularly in his " dark discharge " and " dark space " in the neighbourhood of the negative electrode in partial vacuum .
In [ 1523 ] of his 12th series , he says , " The results connected with the different conditions of positive and negative discharge will have a far greater influence on the philosophy of electrical science than we at present imagine .
" His " dark discharge " ( [ 1544\#151 ; 1554 ] ) through space around or in front of the negative electrode was a first instalment of modern knowledge in that splendid field of experimental research which , fifteen years later , and up to the present time , has been so fruitfully cultivated by many of the ablest scientific experimenters of all countries .
The Royal Society 's Transactions and Proceedings of the last forty years contain , in the communications of Grassiot , 'f ' Pliicker , J Andrews * ' Experimental Researches , ' Series 12 and 13 , Jan. and Feb. , 1838 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 10 , 1860 , pp. 36 , 269 , 274 , 432 .
x 'Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' vol. 10 , 1860 , p. 256 .
President 's Address .
1893 .
] and Tait , * * * S Robinson , + Cromwell Varley , J De la Rue and Muller , S Spottiswoode , || Moulton , Grove , ** Crookes , fi " Schuster , ** J. J. Thomson , SS and Fleming , |||| almost a complete history of the new province of electrical science which has grown up , largely in virtue of the great modern improvements in practical methods for exhausting air from glass vessels , culminating in Sprengel 's mercury-shower pump , by which we now have " vacuum tubes " and bulbs containing less than 1/ 190,000 of the air which would be left in them by all that could be done in the way of exhausting ( supposed to be down to 1 mm. of mercury ) by the best air-pump of fifty years ago .
A large part of the fresh discoveries in this province has been made by the authors of these communications ; and their references to the discoveries of other workers very nearly complete the history of all that has been done in the way of investigating the transmission of electricity through highly rarefied air and gases since the time of Faraday .
Varley 's short paper of 1871 , which , strange to say , has lain almost or quite unperceived in the Proceedings during the twenty-two years since its publication , contains an important first instalment of discovery in a new field\#151 ; the molecular torrent from the " negative pole , " the control of its course by a magnet , its pressure against either end of a pivoted vane of mica according as it is directed by a magnet to one end or the other , and the shadow produced by its interception by a mica screen ; Quite independently of \Tarley , and not knowing what he had done , Crookes was led to the same primary discovery , not by accident , and not merely by experimental skill and acuteness of observation .
He was led to it by carefully designed investigation , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 10 , 1860 , p. 274 ; 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1860 , p. 118 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 12 , 1862 , p. 202 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 19 , 1871 , p. 236 .
S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 23 , 1875 , p. 356 ; vol. 26 , 1877 , p. 519 ; vol. 27 , 1878 , p. 374 ; vol. 29 , 1879 , p. 281 ; vol. 35 , 1883 , p. 292 ; vol. 36 , 1884 , pp. 151 , 206 ; ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1878 , pp. 55 , 155 ; 1880 , p. 65 ; 1883 , 477 .
|| ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 23 , 1875 , pp. 356 , 455 ; vol. 25 , 1875 , pp. 73 , 547 ; vol. 26 , 1877 , pp. 90 , 323 ; vol. 27,1878 , p. 60 ; vol. 29,1879 , p. 21 ; vol. 30 , 1880 p. 302 ; vol. 32,1881 , pp. 385 , 388 ; vol. 33 , 1882 , p. 423 ; 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1878 , pp. 163,210 ; 1879,165 ; 1880 , p. 561 .
^ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 29 , 1879 , p. 21 ; vol. 30 , 1880 , p. 302 ; vol. 32 , 1881 , pp. 385 , 388 ; vol. 33,1882 , p. 453 ; ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1879 , p. 165 ; 1880 , p. 561 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 28,1878 , p. 181 .
ft * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 28 , 1879 , pp. 347 , 477 ; ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1879 , p. 641 ; 1880 , p. 135 ; 1881 , 387 .
XX * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 37 , 1884 , pp. 78 , 317 ; vol. 42 , 1887 , p. 371 ; vol. 47 , 1890 ; pp. 300 , 506 .
*S S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 42,1887 , p. 343 ; vol. 49 , 1891 , p. 84 .
HUE 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 47 , 1890 , p. 118 .
388 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , starting with an examination of the cause of irregularities which had troubled* him in his weighing of thallium ; and , going on to trials for improving Cavendish 's gravitational measurement , in the course of which he discovered that the seeming attraction by heat is only found in air of greater than 1/ 1000+ of ordinary density ; and that there is repulsion increasing to a maximum when the density is decreased from 1/ 1000 to 36/ 1,000,000 , and thence diminishing towards zero as the rarefaction is farther extended to density 1/ 20,000,000 .
From this discovery Crookes came to his radiometer , first without and then with electrification ; and , powerfully aided by Sir George Stokes , + he brought all his work more and more into touch with the kinetic theory of gases ; so much so that when he discovered the molecular torrent he immediately gave it its true explanation\#151 ; molecules of residual air , or gas , or vapour projected at great velocitiesS by electric repulsion from the negative electrode .
This explanation has been repeatedly and strenuously attacked by many other able investigators , but Crookes has defend ed|| it , and thoroughly established it by what I believe is irrefragable evidence of experiment .
Skilful investigation perseveringly continued brought out more and more of wonderful and valuable results : the non-importance of the position of the positive electrode ; the projection of the torrent perpendicularly from the surface of the negative electrode ; its convergence to a focus and divergence thenceforward when the surface is slightly convex ; the slight but perceptible repulsion between two parallel torrents due , according to Crookes , to negative electrifications of their constituent molecules ; the change of direction of the molecular torrent by a neighbouring magnet ; the tremendous beating effect of the torrent from a concave electrode when glass , metal , or any ponderable substance is placed in the focus ; the phosphorescence produced on a plate coated with sensitive paint by a molecular torrent skirting along it ; the brilliant colours , \#151 ; turquoise-blue , emerald , orange , ruby-red\#151 ; with which grey colourless objects and clear colourless crystals glow on their struck faces when lying separately or piled up in a heap in the course of a molecular torrent ; " electrical evaporation " of negatively electrified liquids and solids ; *[[ the seemingly red hot glow , but with no heat conducted inwards from the surface , of cool solid silver kept negatively electrified in a vacuum of 1/ 1,000,000 of an atmosphere , and thereby caused * Tribulation , not undisturbed progress , gives life and soul , and leads to success when success can be reached , in the struggle for natural knowledge .
+ Crookes , " On the Viscosity of Gases at High Exhaustions , ' S 655 , * Phil. Trans. , ' Feb. , 1881 , p. 403 .
J ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 172 ( 1881 ) , pp. 387 , 435 .
S Probably , I believe , not greater in any case than 2 or 3 kilometres per second .
|| Address to the Institute of Telegraphic Engineers , 1891 .
' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June 11 , 1891 .
Presidents Address .
1893 .
] to rapidly evaporate .
This last-mentioned result is almost more surprising than the phosphorescent glow excited by molecular impacts in bodies not rendered perceptibly phosphorescent by light .
Both phenomena will surely be found very telling in respect to the molecular constitution of matter and the origination of thermal radiation , whether visible as light or not .
In the whole train of Crookes ' investigations on the radiometer , the viscosity of gases at high exhaustions , and the electric phenomena of high vacuums , ether seems to have nothing to do except the humble function of showing to our eyes something of what the atoms and molecules are doing .
The same confession of ignorance must be made with reference to the subject dealt with in the important researches of Schuster and J. J. Thomson on the passage of electricity through gases .
Even in Thomson 's beautiful experiments showing currents produced by circuital electromagnetic induction in complete poleless circuits , the presence of molecules of residual gas or vapour seems to be the essential .
It seems certainly true that without the molecules there could be no current , and that without the molecules electricity has no meaning .
But in obedience to logic I must withdraw one expression I have used .
We must not imagine that " presence of molecules is the essential .
" It is certainly an essential .
Ether also is certainly an essential , and certainly has more to do than merely to telegraph to our eyes to tell us of what the molecules and atoms are about .
If a first step towards understanding the relations between ether and ponderable matter is to be made , it seems to me that the most hopeful foundation for it is knowledge derived from experiment on electricity in high vacuum ; and if , as I believe is true , there is good reason for hoping to see this step made , we owe a debt of gratitude to the able and persevering workers of the last forty years who have given us the knowledge we have : and we may hope for more and more from some of themselves and from others encouraged by the fruitfulness of their labours to persevere in the work .
The President then presented the Medals awarded by the Society as follows:\#151 ; Copley Medal .
Sir G. Gabriel Stokes , Bart. , F.B.S. In presenting the Copley Medal to Sir George Stokes I feel that no " statement of claim " is needed .
Nevertheless , it is interesting to recall to memory something of the great work that he has done in mathematical and physical science .
Fifty-two years ago he took up the subject of fluid motion with mathematical power amply capable to advance on the lines of Lagrange , Fourier , Cauchy , Poisson , in the 390 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , splendid nineteenth century " physical mathematics , " invented and founded by those great men ; and with a wholly original genius for discovery in properties of real matter , which enhanced the superlative beauty of the mathematical problems by fresh views deep into the constitution of matter .
In the purely mathematical part of his hydro-dynamical subject he advanced from the " infinitely small " waves of Cauchy and Poisson to deep-sea waves of such considerable steepnesses and lengths and heights as are seen in nature\#151 ; on water 500 fathoms deep , or more , after a severe gale far away from land ; and he has shown how to carry on his mode of solution right up to breaking waves at sea and tidal bores in shallow water .
His enunciations and solutions for motion of viscous fluids , rich with applications to natural phenomena\#151 ; the distance of audibility of sound , the suspension of clouds in the air , the subsidence of ripples on a pond and of waves on the ocean after the cessation of wind ; and rich in aids to scientific investigation , as in the theory of the pendulum in air\#151 ; have added to hydro-dynamics a previously unknown province , in which the exceeding difficulty of the mathematical work deserves every capable effort to advance it , on account of the vast practical and scientific importance of the issues .
His " instability " of the motion of a viscous fluid in the neighbourhood of a solid gives the key to the scientific mystery of turbulent motion in practical hydraulics , and in wind blowing over solid earth ; the hearing of sounds in the direction of the wind which are inaudible at equal distances in the contrary direction ; the flow of water in rivers , culverts , and water supply pipes ; the " skin-resistance " of ships , the scientific consideration of which has done so much to make 22 knots a proper speed for travelling by sea .
Of true dynamical science in all these subjects Stokes ' early work was the beginning .
It also first gave true views as to that very important practical subject , the rigidity , and the resistance against compression , of solids ; views which would be false if a majority of votes in the scientific world of 1893 could decide between truth and error .
In optics and the undulatory theory of light , Stokes has been the teacher and guide of his contemporaries .
His Report to the British Association in 1862 , " On Double Refraction , " showed with perfect accuracy and clearness the outstanding difficulties , but called special attention to the door which Green had opened for escape from them .
That Report has given the starting impulse and essential information for nearly all that has been done for the subject in England since its publication .
By his own experimental and mathematical work on the polarisation of light by a grating ' , and of the light of the blue sky ; by his President 's Address .
1893 .
] experimental investigation of " epipolic dispersion " ( or " fluorescence " ) , and , perhaps more than all , by his accurate measuring work ; from which he drew an exceedingly rigorous verification of the accuracy of Huyghens ' geometrical construction for the double refraction of Iceland spar , Sir George Stokes has done much to make the Un-dulatory Theory of Light sure and strong as it is\#151 ; a codification of laws divined by Huyghens and Fresnel .
But he has done more than this .
He has not merely left to mathematicians and speculative physicists a desperate problem to find the dynamical explanation of those laws .
He has given ( perhaps only in conversation ) what seems to me certainly the true clue to the dynamics of the Undula-tory Theory of Light by pointing out that we must look not merely , or not at all , to change of shape of the portion of ether within a wave-length in the motion constituting light , but also , or altogether , to its absolute rotation , for explaining the efficient force .
Royal Medal .
Professor Arthur , .
Professor Schuster 's first researches in physics were with the spectroscope .
Some of these date more than ten years ago .
He has been an important observer in more than one Solar Eclipse Expedition .
The results he has obtained will be found in joint papers in the 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1884 and 1889 .
He was associated with Lord Rayleigh in one of his determinations of the ohm .
In 1889 also he showed that the diurnal magnetic changes could be accounted for by a disturbing cause outside the earth 's surface , and could not be accounted for by a disturbing cause within the earth 's surface .
But perhaps the researches of most general interest are those on electric discharge through gases .
These will be found in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " vols 42 and 47 .
In the former paper he shows , amongst other things , that a steady current of electricity can be obtained in air from electrodes at the ordinary temperature , which are at a difference of potential of a quarter of \amp ; volt only , provided that an independent current is maintained in the same closed vessel .
A vessel from which the air could be exhausted was nearly divided into two parts by a metallic partition connected to earth .
A pair of electrodes was introduced on one side of the partition between which a current could be passed from a battery of many cells .
A second pair was introduced into the vessel on the other side of the partition , and these were connected to the poles of a battery of low electromotive force .
When high electric pressure was applied to produce a current between the first pair of electrodes , a current due to the battery of low electromotive force also passed between the second pair .
Professor Schuster supposes that the effect VOL. liv .
, 2 E 392 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , of the first current of high electromotive force is to break up some of the molecules of gas , and that the wandering atoms can then yield to small electrical forces to which the complete molecule is insensitive .
Professor Schuster has worked in many branches of physics , and has advanced the knowledge of each .
Royal Medal .
Professor II .
Marshall , Professor H. Marshall Ward 's claims to the recognition hy the Royal Society implied in the award of a Royal Medal rest mainly on the series of brilliant investigations he has carried out , having for their object the elucidation of the phenomena of life exhibited by the Fungi and the Schizomycetes , and the effects of the life of these plants , whether exhibited in a hurtful form as disease in living organisms , or in an useful form in the production of substances of economic importance .
These investigations , planned with ingenuity , and completed with resourceful industry , have resulted in most valuable contributions to natural knowledge .
In the additions they make to the sum of our knowledge regarding the plant forms dealt with they are admirable and weighty , but , over and above the botanical interest attaching to the work , it has a far-reaching importance in the whole world of biology , touching as it does the fundamental point of the interaction of living organisms and the conditions under which symbiosis , whether beneficial or baneful , is developed and maintained ; and its conclusions are of vital value in their immediate bearing upon such large industries as agriculture , horticulture , forestry , and brewing , and in relation to the scientific basis of sanitary procedure .
The series of purposeful and practical researches which place Professor Marshall Ward in the front rank of biologists wras initiated by his investigation of the disease which devastated , a decade or so ago , the coffee plantations in Ceylon .
Undertaking this work at the invitation of the Ceylon Government , Professor Marshall Ward exposed , in a detailed account of the life history of the fungus which immediately caused the disease , and whilst his work contributed many new morphological and physiological facts , its chief importance lay in the scientific basis it established , upon which any method of treatment that might be adopted should be founded .
Following up the line thus entered upon , Professor Marshall Ward took up the better known questions of the salmon disease , the damping off of seedling plants , and the potato disease , and , in an admirably recorded series of observations upon the Fungi connected with these diseases , brought to light many points of great importance , especially in the direction of showing the influences 1893 .
] President 's Address .
393 exercised by the host in modifying the structure of the parasite , and conversely the effect of the parasite upon the host , and the mechanism of its attack .
Subsequent work on the disease of lilies is specially valuable , on account of the recognition and separation of the ferment by which the passage of fungi through the tissues of their host is effected .
Upon the recrudescence of the question of the relation of plants to the free nitrogen of their environment , which we owe to the experimental and structural investigations in connexion with leguminous crops , carried on in this country at Rothamsted , and in Germany by Frank and Hellriegel , we find Professor Marshall Ward attacking the point from his practical standpoint , and to him we are indebted for the discovery that the well-known nitrogen-storing root tubercles of the Leguminosee are a consequence of the attack of a fungus , the mycelium of which penetrates the root hairs , and gives origin eventually to the active " bacteroids " in the tubercle , a fundamental fact in the relation of the plants to the soil .
The best summary of the general bearing of his several investigations up to date is probably that provided by himself in the Croonian Lecture he delivered , in 1890 , upon the relations between host and parasite in plant diseases , one of the most suggestive of the many interesting lectures that have been given under the foundation , and it is not amiss to mention here also , as remarkable for its suggestiveness , his paper of earlier date on " Sexuality in Fungi , " in which the progressive apogamy of the group is dealt with , and the parasitic habit laid under contribution for an explanation .
Of the many valuable pieces of work done by Professor Marshall Ward , not the least remarkable is that on the ginger-beer plant\#151 ; a model of experimental biological investigation\#151 ; in which the remarkable symbiosis of yeast and bacteria is unfolded , and the idea , pregnant for industries such as brewing , of symbiotic as distinct from metabiotic and antibiotic , fermentation is put forward .
In the Reports , in conjunction with Professor Frankland , upon bacteria in water , now being presented to the Society , we have Professor Marshall Ward 's most recent work , and , in connexion with it , his probing of the question of the action of light in arresting the development of and killing bacteria\#151 ; to mention only one of the many points raised in the Reports\#151 ; has already brought out striking results , the significance of which , from a sanitary point of view , is sufficiently apparent , and it has led to other investigations by the author into the wide question of the function of colour in the vegetable kingdom , which promise to be fruitful in valuable generalisations .
In the field of work to which I have referred , one of no ordinary difficulty , Professor Marshall Ward has not merely increased enormously our stock of knowledge of solid fact , but in his dealing with facts under review he has thrown many lights upon general 2 e 2 394 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , biological problems , and has , moreover , opened up many new lines of research of immense interest in relation to economic questions .
The Davy Medal is avjarded in duplicate to J.H. Hoff and A. Bel , in recognition of their important services to theoretical chemistry .
J. H. va n't Hoff was the first to introduce a definite mechanical conception of valency , and to connect the optical chirality displayed by many carbon compounds with their chemical constitution .
The fact that such compounds always contain at least one atom of carbon combined in four different ways has now been fully established , and the doctrine of " asymmetric " results from the quadrivalence of carbon forms the basis of the modern theory of stereo-isomerism .
Ya n't Hoff 's first paper upon the subject was published in September , 1874 , in the Dutch language , but appeared in 1875 under the title " La Chimie dans l'Espace .
" At that time many compounds were known which seemed to constitute exceptions to the new generalisation , but further investigation has shown that these exceptions were only apparent , and are now included in and are explained by the theory .
A second very important contribution to science resulted from the mathematical investigations of va n't Hoff in reference to the properties of liquids and the condition of dissolved solids in dilute solutions .
By these investigations he has supplied the theoretical explanation of the phenomena involved in the method of determining molecular weights , which we owe to the experimental investigations of Professor Raoult , and for which he received the Davy Medal last year .
To M. J. A. Le Bel we owe an independent enunciation of the theory of asymmetric combinations with carbon , published in the ' Bull , de la Soc. Chim .
' only two months later than the Dutch paper of va n't Hoff , that is , in November , 1874 .
Le Bel has contributed substantially by his work on active amyl alcohol and its derivatives to the support of the theory which , as already stated , is accepted universally by chemists .
The justification for what appears at first a purely speculative hypothesis is supplied by the fact that the introduction of the new views has led to the discovery of many new carbon compounds the existence of which could not have been previously suspected .
The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers were then read , and Mr. Crookes and Admiral Sir Erasmus Ommanney , having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were taken , and the following were declared duly elected as Council and Officers for the ensuing year:\#151 ; 1893.J Election of Council and .
395 President.\#151 ; The Lord Kelvin , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. .
f Professor Michael Poster , M.A. , M.D. Secrdane,.-| The ^ Bayle ; ghj M D.0L .
Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Sir Joseph Lister , Bart. , F.R.C.S. Other Members of the Council .
Professor Isaac Bayley Balfour , M.A. ; Andrew Ainslie Common , LL. D. ; Andrew Russell Forsyth , Sc. D. ; Richard Tetley Glazebrook , M.A. ; Professor Alexander Henry Green , M.A. ; Sir John Kirk , K.C.B. ; Professor Oliver Joseph Lodge , D.Sc .
; Sir John Lubbock , Bart. , D.C.L. ; William Davidson Niven , M.A. ; William Henry Perkin , LL. D. ; the Marquis of Salisbury , K.G. , M.A. ; Professor J. S. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. ; Adam Sedgwick , M.A. ; Professor Thomas Edward Thorpe , Sc. D. ; Professor William Augustus Tilden , D.Sc .
; Professor W. Cawthorne Unwin , B.Sc. The thanks of the Society were given to the Scrutators .
Balance Sheet .
1893 .
Statement of Receipts and Expenditure from To Balance at Bank , 12th November , 1892 ... ... ... .
\#163 ; s .
d. " Balance in hand , Catalogue Account 19 4 1 1 " , , Petty Cash ... ... . .
13 17 6 J , , Compositions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Admission Fees ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " Annual Contributions , at \#163 ; 4 ... ... \#163 ; 504 0 01 " at \#163 ; 3 ... ... .
549 0 0 J " Fee Reduction Fund , in lieu of Admission Fees and Annual Contributions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Rents : \#163 ; s. d. Fee Farm , Lewes ... ... ... ... ... ... 18 12 10 1 Mablethorpe Estate ... ... ... ... ... 81 7 8/ " Ground Rents ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Dividends ( exclusive of Trust Funds ) ... ... ... ... .
" Interest on Mortgage* Loans ( Duke of Norfolk ) ... .
, , Sale of Transactions and Proceedings ... ... ... ... Catalogue of Scientific Papers ( Mr. Ludwig Mond 's Donation ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
, , Interest on Bank Deposit Account ... ... ... ... ... .
" Interest on Bank Deposit ( Catalogue Account ) ... ... , .
Sale of Catalogue ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
" Transfer from Handley Fund on account of Catalogue " Sale of Krakatoa Report ( leaving \#163 ; 62 10s .
4d .
Expenditure in excess of Receipts ) ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
" Sale of Lendenfeld Monograph ( leaving \#163 ; 664 19s .
Id. expenditure in excess of receipts ) ... ... ... ... .
, , Water Research Grants ( leaving \#163 ; 250 further now due from London County Council ) ... ... ... ... ... .
" Income Tax refunded ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
" Proceeds of Sale of \#163 ; 2,128 9s .
6d .
Bank Stock and \#163 ; 4,914 8s .
4d .
Consols ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
" Bequest ( Earl of Derby ) ... ... ... ... \#163 ; s. d. 1,125 10 4 1,053 0 0 2,000 0 0 21 19 11 10 2 6 59 14 3 219 11 5 12,000 0 0 2,000 0 0 November 12th , 1892 , to November 11th , 1893 .
By Salaries , Wages , and Pension ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
, , Catalogue of Scientific Papers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " Books for the Library ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
, , Printing and Advertising Transactions , \#163 ; s. d. and Separate Copies to Authors and Publisher ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
898 0 5 , , Ditto Proceedings , Nos. 316 to 326 ... .
610 14 6 " Ditto Miscellaneous ... ... ... ... ... ... .130 11 0 " Paper for Transactions and Proceedings ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
511 12 3 , , Binding ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... 44 11 6 " Engraving and Lithography ... ... ... .
977 0 11J " Soiree and Reception Expenses ... ... . .
117 18 51 " Anniversary Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... 44 11 6 J " Coal , Lighting , \amp ; c ... ... ... ... ... '. .
163 18 3 1 " Office Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
44 17 3 " House Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..1 ... 557 18 11 " Tea Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
15 16 8 " Fire Insurance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
55 5 0 y " Taxes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 46 2 6 " Advertising Meetings ... ... ... ... ... ... 17 13 6 " Postage , Parcels , and Petty Charges 80 7 2 " Miscellaneous Expenses ... ... ... ... ... .
71 4 9^ , , Carrington Donation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " Water Research , Payments ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Purchase of \#163 ; 2,022 14s .
Id. India 3 per cent. Stock ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " Kew Committee Loan ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
, , Loan on Mortgage , Duke of Norfolk ... ... ... ... , , Balance at Bankers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Including \#163 ; 500 " Challenger ** Account and \#163 ; 2,200 Catalogue Account .
, , Balance on hand , Catalogue Account 3 3 31 " Ditto , Petty Cash ... ... ... ... ... . .
7 0 1/ \#163 ; s. d. 1,632 10 6 376 7 3 306 11 5 3,172 10 7 1,053 4 0 2,000 0 0 200 0 0 12,000 0 0 2,875 16 6 03 CO C* \amp ; o \lt ; 03 O \#163 ; 24,184 8 6 \#163 ; 24,184 8 6 91U9J \#163 ; $ .
d. \#163 ; s. d. To Balance at 1892:\#151 ; Bank 12tk November , Fee Reduction Fund Account ... .
Scientific Relief Fund Account ... .
Joule Memorial Fund Account ... .
Scientific Relief Fund , Dividends , \amp ; c\#171 ; ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Donation Fund , D ividends , and TransBakerian and Copley Medal Fund , Wintringham Fund , Dividends , \amp ; c. Croonian Lecture Fund , Rent , \amp ; c. .
Davy Medal Fund , Dividends , \amp ; c. .
Fee Reduction Fund , Dividends , \amp ; c. Darwin MemorialFund , Dividends , \amp ; c. Joule Memorial Fund , Dividends , \amp ; c. 2,032 9 1 ] 307 18 H 1,533 4 4I 65 0 9J 767 1 10 " 434 3 8 74 10 11 64 18 7 27 11 1 38 7 4 102 3 2 37 15 9 ' 586 11 1219 11 5 138 12 7 504 13 9 1 99 0 5 197 8 4 3 18 9 20 0 0 " 3,938 12 3 3,316 8 8 \#163 ; 7,255 0 11 Funds .
\#163 ; s. d. \#163 ; s. d. I By Scientific Relief Fund , Grants and Investments ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Donation Fund , Grants ... ... ... ... . .
" Rumford Fund Medals ... ... ... ... ... .
" Bakerian and Copley Medal Fund , Medal , Lecture , and Gifts ... ... . .
" Keck Bequest , Payment to Foreign Secretary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " Wintringham Fund , Payment to Foundling Hospital ... ... ... ... . .
" Croonian Lecture Fund Payments ... .
" Davy Medal Fund , Gold Medals ... ... .
" Gassiot Trust , Payments to Kew Committee ... ... ... ... ... ... .
... ... ... .
" Handley Fund , Transfer to General Account , for Catalogue ... ... ... . .
" Jodrell Fund , Transfer to Donation Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Fee Reduction Fund , Transfer to Royal Society General Account and Investment ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Darwin Memorial Fund , Silver Medal " Joule Memorial Fund , Investment ... .
" Balance at Bankers:\#151 ; General Account ... ... ... ... ... Fee Reduction Fund Account ... .
Scientific Relief Fund Account ... .
Joule Memorial Fund Account ... .
2,009 9 4 538 17 7 59 11 6 108 12 7 23 7 6 32 4 0 100 0 0 32 8 0\ 486 9 2 219 11 5 138 12 7 669 5 6 1 5 0 165 7 4j 2,138 14 61 , 143 6 4 , 290 16 10 97 1 9j 4,585 1 6 2,669 19 5 \#163 ; 7,255 0 11 1893 .
] Financial Statement .
397 \#163 ; 14,568 Os .
4c ? .
, 2f per Cent. Consolidated Stock Estates and Property of the Royal Society , including Trust Funds .
Estate at Mabletliorpe , Lincolnshire ( 55a .
2k .
2p .
) , rent \#163 ; 85 per annum .
Ground Rent of House , No. 57 , Basinghall Street , rent \#163 ; 380 per annum .
" " of 23 houses in Wharton Road , West Kensington , rents \#163 ; 253 per annum .
Fee Farm Rent , near Lewes , Sussex , \#163 ; 19 4s .
per annum .
One-fifth of the clear rent of an estate at Lambeth Hill , from the College of Physicians , about \#163 ; 52 per annum , Croonian Lecture Fund .
Stevenson Bequest .
Chancery Dividend .
One-fourth annual interest on balance of Bequest still in Court .
\#163 ; 15,200 Mortgage Loan , 3J per Cent. , to the Duke of Norfolk .
being\#163 ; 10,779 8s.2d .
onaccount of the following Funds:\#151 ; \#163 ; s. d. Rumford Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2,330 0 0 WintringliamFund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1,200 0 0 Gassiot Trust ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
400 0 0 Sir J. Copley Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1,666 13 4 J o dr ell Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5,182 14 10 \#163 ; 270 11s .
11c ? .
General Purposes .
Land \#163 ; 3,518 0s .
3c ? .
in Chancery , arising from sale of the Coleman Street Estate.\#151 ; General Purposes .
\#163 ; 913 0s .
U. New 2| per cent. Stock/ 8(l\Bfefnn a\#187 ; d1CoP % Medal FuudLLo09 10s .
Id. Scientific Relief Lund .
\#163 ; 3,000 India 3J per Cent. Stock.\#151 ; General Purposes .
\#163 ; 2,022 14s .
lc ? .
India 3 per Cent. Stock.\#151 ; General Purposes ( Earl of Derby 's Bequest^ .
\#163 ; 800 Midland Railway 3 per Cent. Debenture Stock.\#151 ; Keck Bequest , \#163 ; 370 3s .
Id. Midland Kailway 4 per Cent. Perpetual Guaranteed Preference Stock.\#151 ; General Purposes ( Stevenson Bequest ) .
\#163 ; 5,660 Madras Railway Guaranteed 5 per Cent. Stock j ^v^MedalFund \#163 ; \#163 ; 660 ' ' \#163 ; 10,000 Italian Irrigation ( Cavour Canal ) Bonds.\#151 ; The Gassiot Trust .
\#163 ; 9,061 6s .
8 d.Great Northern Railway 3 per Cent. Debenture Stock -j " Scientific Relief Fund , \#163 ; 7,200 .
51'79 ' GrCat Northern Railway Perpetual 4 per Cent. Guaranteed Stock.\#151 ; DonltionFund ?
0^ ' \#163 ; 1,861 6A ' Sd ' f ?
700 Metropolitan 31 per Cent S10*-06"0"*1 P"rp0Se " ( St8yens0n Be4uest\gt ; \#163 ; 7,000 London and North Western Railway 4 per Cent. Perpetual Debenture Stock.\#151 ; Fee Reduction Fund .
, " f \#163 ; 6,000 Scientific Relief Fund .
4 per Cent. Consolidated Guaranteed Stock.\#163 ; 20,908 \#163 ; 5,000 Consolidated 4 per Cent. Preference Stock.-\lt ; \#163 ; 12,150 General Purposes .
[ \#163 ; 2,758 -General Purposes .
03 o GO s * s* I ?
Of .
S $ oi .
( Stevenson Bequest ) .
ov .
30 .
\#163 ; 2 760 N'rtl1 Ear Rai !
ray ConsoUdated*^6pei^ Cent Guaranteed Stock.\#151 ; General Purposes ( Stevenson Be'quest ) .
\#163 ; 2 200 South Eastern Railway 4 per Cent. Debenture Stock .
Darwin Memorial .
Fund .
\#163 ; 4 340 South Eastern Railway 5 per Cent. Debenture Stock.\#151 ; Scientific Relief Fund .
\#163 ; 3333 London and South Western Railway 4 per Cent. Preference Stock.\#151 ; General Purposes .
\#163 ; 4798 Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway 4 per Cent. Guaranteed Stock.\#151 ; Handley Fund . . .
_ , \#163 ; 900 London , Brighton , and South Coast Railway Consolidated Guaranteed 5 per Cent. Stock.\#151 ; Joule Memorial Fund .
\#163 ; 4,000 Southern Mahratta Railway 4 per Cent. Debenture Stock.\#151 ; General Purposes .
\#163 ; 307 8s .
6d .
on Deposit Account at Bank.\#151 ; Brady Library Account .
\#163 ; 150 on Deposit Account on behalf of the Committee.\#151 ; Joule Memorial Fund .
\#163 ; 2,000 on Deposit Account at Bank , Mr. Ludwig Mond 's Gift .
Catalogue Account .
\#163 ; 1,000 Policy in the Atlas Assurance Office , becoming due October 7th , 1899 , No. 24644.\#151 ; Catalogue Account .
\#163 ; l'\lt ; X)0 Bond.\#151 ; Dr. Gunning.\#151 ; Interest to be applied to the promotion of Physics and Biology .
JOHN EYANS , Treasurer .
We , the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Council , hare examined these Accounts and found them correct .
B. BAKER .
M. FOSTER .
F. D. GODMAN .
We , the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society , have examined these Accounts and found them correct .
A. H. CHURCH .
W. C. ROBERTS-AUSTEN .
1893 .
] Financial Statement .
399 Trust Funds .
1893 .
Scientific Kedef Fund .
\#163 ; 6,000 L. \amp ; N.W.R. 4 per Cent. Consolidated Guaranteed Stock .
\#163 ; 7,200 Great Northern Railway 3 per Cent. Debenture Stock .
\#163 ; 4,340 South Eastern Railway 5 per Cent. Debenture Stock .
\#163 ; 509 10s .
7d .
2J per Cent. Annuities .
\#163 ; s. d. \#163 ; s. d. m -n i / Income ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1,047 14 7 To Balance | C ital ... ... ... ... ... . .
485 9 9 ---------1,533 4 4 " Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ' ... 664 15 7 , , Interest on Deposit ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
7 17 3 " Return of Income Tax ... ... ... , , ... ... ... ... ... 94 9 0 \#163 ; 2,300 6 2 \#163 ; By Grants ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
952 " Purchase of \#163 ; 533 6 . ? .
8 d.Great Northern Railway 3 per Cent. Debenture Stock ... ... ... ... .
\#163 ; 557 9 4 " Purchase of \#163 ; 509 10s .
7 d.2\#163 ; per Cent. Annuities ... ... ... ... ... .
500 0 0 --.------1,057 9 4 " Balance , Income ... ... ... ... ... . .
\#163 ; 862 16 5 " Less Capital over-invested ... ... ... .
571 19 7 --------- 290 16 10 \#163 ; 2,300 6 2 Donation Fund .
\#163 ; 5,030 Great Northern Railway Perpetual 4 per Cent. Guaranteed Stock .
The Trevelyan Bequest .
\#163 ; 1,861 6s .
8 d.Great Northern Railway 3 per Cent. Debenture Stock .
\#163 ; i. d. To Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 746 13 1 " Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
250 6 10 " Transfer from Jodrell Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... 138 12 7 " Return of Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
45 4 3 By Grants " Balance \#163 ; s. d. 538 17 7 641 19 2 \#163 ; 1,180 16 9 \#163 ; 1,180 16 9 O To Balance ... ... ... ... . .
" Dividends ... ... ... . .
" Return of Income Tax Rumford Fund .
\#163 ; 2,330 2f per Cent. Consolidated Stock .
\#163 ; s. d. 208 8 2 62 7 3 12 3 8 \#163 ; 282 19 1 By Medals " Balance \#163 ; d. 59 11 6 223 7 7 \#163 ; 282 19 1 Bdkerian and Copley Medal Fund .
Sir Joseph Copley 's Gift .
\#163 ; 1,666 13$ .
4 2| per Cent. Consolidated Stock .
\#163 ; 403 9s .
8d .
New 2\#163 ; per Cent. Stock .
\#163 ; s. d. To Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... .
... ... ... ... ... ... .
156 18 6 " Dividends , New 21 per Cent. Stock ... ... ... ... ... .
9 16 2 " Dividend\#151 ; Sir J. Copley 's Fund ... ... ... ... ... .
44 11 8 " Return of Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 10 10 9 \#163 ; 221 17 1 \#163 ; s. d. By Gold Medal ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4 12 7 " Bakerian Lecture , Professor H. B. Dixon ... ... ... 4 0 0 " Gifts:\#151 ; Professor S. Cannizzaro ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 0 0 Professor R. Yirchow ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 0 0 " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
US 4 6 \#163 ; 221 17 1 s* The KecTc Bequest .
\#163 ; 800 Midland Railway 3 per Cent. Debenture Stock .
\#163 ; s. d. !
| To Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 7 6 By Payment to Foreign Secretary " Return of Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 3 7 " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... \#163 ; 27 11 1 \#163 ; sd .
23 7 6 4 3 7 \#163 ; 27 11 1 1893 .
] Trust Fur Wintringham Fund .
\#163 ; 1,200 2f per Cent. Consolidated Stock .
\#163 ; s. d. To Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
32 4 o " Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
32 2 10 " Beturn of Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 6 4 6 \#163 ; 70 11 4 \#163 ; s. d. By Payment to Foundling Hospital ... ... ... ... ... . .
32 4 0 " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
38 7 4 \#163 ; 70 11 4 Croonicm Lecture Fund .
One-fifth of the clear rent of an Estate at Lambeth Hill , from the College of Physicians , about \#163 ; 52 per annum .
To Rent ... ... ... ... . .
" Return of Income Tax \#163 ; s. d. 101 5 10 17 4 By Lecture ( 1892 ) Professor Mosso .
" ( 1893 ) Professor Virchow .
" Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
\#163 ; s. d. 50 0 0 50 0 0 2 3 2 \#163 ; 102 3 2 \#163 ; 102 3 2 lo Balance ... ... ... ... " Dividends ... ... ... .
" Return of Income Tax Davy Medal Fund .
\#163 ; 660 Madras Railway Guaranteed 5 per Cent. Stock .
\#163 ; s. d. ( ' ... ... ... 74 6 10 By Gold Medals ... ... ... ... . .
... ... ... 32 2 1 !
Balance ... ... ... .
... ... ... 5 13 8 i \#163 ; s. d. 32 8 0 79 14 7 \#163 ; 112 2 7 j \#151 ; . .
I \#163 ; 112 2 7 Trust Funds .
[ Nov. 30 , To Balance ... ... ... ... ..\gt ; ... . .
j , Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... " Return of Income Tax , To Dividends ... ... ... ... " Return of Income Tax The Oassiot Trust .
\#163 ; 10,000 Italian Irrigation Bonds .
\#163 ; 400 2f per Cent. Consolidated Stock .
\#163 ; s. d.I 90 14 9 | By Payments to Kew Committee . . .
497 3 5 | " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
89 7 8 \#163 ; 677 5 10 Handley Fund .
\#163 ; 4,798 Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway 4 per Cent. Guaranteed Stock .
\#163 ; d. 186 18 4 32 13 1 \#163 ; 219 11 5 By Transfer to Catalogue Account \#163 ; d. 486 9 2 190 16 8 \#163 ; 677 5 10 \#163 ; d. 219 11 5 \#163 ; 219 11 5 The JodrellFund .
\#163 ; 5,182 14s .
lOd .
2f per Cent. Consolidated Stock .
\#163 ; s. d. { | d. To Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
138 12 ' 7 M By Transfer to Donation Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 138 12 7 Fee Seduction Fund .
... ... .- ... ... ... ..\#163 ; 4,700 Metropolitan 3| per Cent. Stock .
\#163 ; 7,000 London and North Western Railway 4 per Cent. Perpetual Debenture Stock .
\#163 ; d. To Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..- ... ... ... ... ... 307 18 1 " Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 430 4 1 " Return of Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
74 9 8 \#163 ; 812 11 10 \#163 ; s. d. By Transfer to Royal Society General Account ... ... ... .
331 0 0 " Purchase of \#163 ; 300 Metropolitan 3| per Cent. Stock 338 5 6 " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
143 6 4 \#163 ; 812 11 10 1893 .
] Trust Funds .
403 To Balance " Dividends ... ... ... . .
" Return of Income Tax , Darwin Memorial Fund .
\#163 ; 2,200 South Eastern Railway 4 per Cent. Debenture Stock .
\#163 ; s. d % 379 14 o 85 14 3 13 6 2 By Silver Medal " Balance \#163 ; 478 14 5 \#163 ; s .
d. 15 0 477 9 5 \#163 ; 478 14 5 Joule Memor ial Fund .
\#163 ; 900 London , Brighton , and South Coast Railway Consolidated Guaranteed 5 per Cent. Stock .
\#163 ; 150 on Deposit on behalf of the Committee .
\#163 ; s. d. To Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 65 0 9 " Interest on Deposit ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2 3 3 " Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
43 16 7 " Return of Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
18 6 " Amount withdrawn from Deposit ... ... ... ... ... ... .
150 0 0 \#163 ; 262 9 1 \#163 ; s. d. By Purchase of \#163 ; 100 London , Brighton and South Coast Railway Stock ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 165 7 4 " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
97 1 9 \#163 ; 262 9 1 To Amount on Deposit at Bank , , Interest thereon ... ... ... ... .
Brady Library Fund .
\#163 ; 307 6d .
on Deposit Account at Bank .
\#163 ; s. d. 303 9 9 3 18 9 By Balance on Deposit \#163 ; s. d % 307 8 6 \#163 ; 307 8 6 \#163 ; 307 8 6 404 Trust Funds .
[ .Nov .
30 , To Balance " Interest \#163 ; 1,000 4 per Gunning Fund .
Cent. Bond of His Excellency Dr. Gunning .
\#163 ; s* 40 0 0 20 0 0 \#163 ; 60 0 0 By Balance \#163 ; 5 .
\#163 ; 60 0 0 Income and Expenditure Account from 13 thNovember , 1892 , to 11th November , 1893 .
Receipts .
To Balance at Bank and in hand 12th November , 1892 ... ... ... ... .\#151 ; " Less Catalogue and " Challenger " Account ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Composition and Admission Fees ... .
" Annual Contributions ... ... ... .
" Rents ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" Dividends and Interest ... ... ... .
" Sale of Publications ... ... ... ... " Income Tax refunded ... ... ... ... . .
" Water Research Grants ... ... ... . .
\#163 ; s. d. \#163 ; s. d. 1,158 11 11 700 0 0 ---------- 458 11 11 \#163 ; 7,484 8 6 Expendittjbe .
\#163 ; St dt By Salaries , Wages , and Pension ... ... ... , , Publications ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
" Books for the Library ... ... ... ... ... .
" Miscellaneous Expenses , Office , House , Receptions , \amp ; c ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
" Water Research Payments ... ... ... ... . .
" Kew Committee Loan ... ... ... ... ... ... " Balance at Bank and in hand ... ... .
2,885 19 10 Less Catalogue and " Challenger " Account ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2,700 0 0 \#163 ; 1,632 3,548 s. d. 0 0 \#163 ; 7,484 8 6 1893 .
] Income and Expenditure .
405 406 Account of Grants from the Donation Fund .
The following Table shows the progress and present state of the Society with respect to the number of Fellows :\#151 ; Patron and Koyal .
Foreign .
Com- pounders .
\#163 ; 4 yearly .
\#163 ; 3 yearly .
Total .
Nov. 30 , 1892 Since Elected . .
Since Deceased . .
Since Compounded 4 + 1 50 - 2 156 + 1 - 4 127 + 1 - 4 170 + 14 - 3 507 + 17 - 13 Nov. 30 , 1893 . .
5 48 153 124 181 511 Account of Grants from the Donation Fund in 1892-93 .
s. d. Prof. G. H. Darwin , for assistance in the Reduction of Tidal Observations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 25 0 0 Sir A. Geikie , to assist a Committee appointed by the British Association in an Investigation of the character of certain High Level Shell Beds in Scotland ... ... ... 30 0 0 Prof. M. Foster , to aid Dr. Edkins in his Researches on Absorption from the Alimentary Canal ... ... ... ... ... ... 30 0 0 Prof. W. C. Williamson , in aid of his Researches on Fossil Plants ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
30 0 0 Prof. J. Milne , in aid of his Seismographic Investigations 100 0 0 Sir A. Geikie , for the purchase of a Microscope to aid Dr. Platania in his Mineralogical Researches ... ... ... 20 0 0 Prof. Schafer , in aid of his Researches on Cerebral Localisation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 0 0 Prof. Roy , in aid of his Researches on the Physiology and Pathology of the Circulation of the Blood ... ... ... ... .
50 0 0 Sir W. H. Flower , to assist Mr. Lydekker in the Examination of Fossil Remains in La Plata ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 120 0 0 Prof. Fleming , in aid of his Researches on Temperature Changes in Electrical Resistance of Pure Metals and Alloys over Wide Ranges of Temperature ... ... ... ... ... .
50 0 0 Dr. A. Harden and Dr. Dyson , for a Research on the Combination of Chlorine with other Gases under the Influence of Light ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 20 0 0 Carried forward , \#163 ; 525 0 0 Alternate Current Electrolysis .
\#163 ; s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... . .
525 0 0 W. T. Thiselton Dyer , to aid Mr. Theodore Bent in making Botanical Collections in Southern Arabia ... ... 50 0 0 Prof. McKendrick , to aid Mr. Jack in Researches on Muscular Movements ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
15 0 0 \#163 ; 590 0 0 Repayments ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 51 2 5 \#163 ; 538 17 7 " Alternate Current Electrolysis .
" By J. HOPKINSON , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , E. Wilson , and F. Lydall .
Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1893 .
Our attention has been called to the interesting work of Messrs. Bedell , Ballantyne , and Williamson on " Alternate Current Condensers and Dielectric Hysteresis , " in the 'Physical Review ' for September\#151 ; October , 1893 .
As experiments bearing upon an analogous subject were carried out in the Siemens Laboratory , King 's College , London , we think it may be of interest to publish them .
Our experiments were commenced in June , 1892 , and were discontinued in the following July with the intention of resuming them at a future time .
They are therefore not exhaustive .
Suppose an alternating current to be passed through an electrolyte between electrodes , and that the current passing and the difference of potential are measured at intervals during the phase .
If the electrolytic action were perfectly reversible , we should expect to find the potential difference to have its maximum value when the current was zero , that is to say , when the total quantity of electricity had also a maximum value .
One object we had in view was to ascertain if this were the case , and , if not , to determine what amount of energy was dissipated under different conditions .
This is readily done , inasmuch as the work done on the voltameter or by the voltameter in any short time is the total quantity of current passed in the time multiplied by the potential difference .
Let a curve be drawn in which the ordinates are the coulombs and the abscissae the volts at corresponding times : the area of this curve represents the work dissipated in a cycle .
It is , of course , well known that if a current is passed through an electrolyte , the potential difference speedily attains a certain maximum value and there remains .
If an alternate current is passed , we should expect to find that as the number of coulombs passed in each vol. Lrv .
2 p

