]\gt ; nic Cells rodvced by the Action of Light.\mdash ; The Statics of Reversible and Irrerersible Systems the Influence of Light .
Second By , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Oxon .
) ( Communicated by Dr. Ludwig Mond , F.R.S. Received June 27 , 1905 , \mdash ; January 25 , 1906 .
) ( Abstract .
) The following is a summary of ) ediHerent subjects dealt with in the paper .
( 1 ) Further evidence is given that velocity of chemical reaction and chemical equilibrium in homogeneous systells follow under the action of light the of mass action .
Experimental proof that the E.M.F. produced by light in the different systems consists of two E.M.F. , viz. : one created by light at a constant temperature due to the variation of chemical ) otential , and a thermo-E.M.F .
simultaneously produced by the effect of the , and due to the variation of the chemical potential with telnperature ( quantitative separation of the total E.M.F. into the two determination of the value of each E.M.F. in the rent systems ) .
( 3 ) Experimental thal the of all wave-lengths act both " " chemically\ldquo ; and as " " heat rays only in diHerent degrees .
( 4 ) Dealing with the experiments of Becquerel and Minchin , it is shown that phenomena observed by Becquerel and Minchin are not surface phenomena , but that their combination forms inconstant galvanic cells under the action of proof .
olarisation .
( Infiuence of composition of the heterogeneous system upon its properties , as constant or galvanic cells .
The course of the parts of the curves the induction and deduction periods in constant and inconstailt cells .
) ( 5 ) On the nature of the chemical processes in lvanic cells created by ( 6 ) The method of ation .
The general ements of the periments .
The ements of a constant ncetylene and arc of the eter , the quartz vessel , thePl( of the plates , the bath , ements for calibration of the obtained results in standard units for the effect of upon different systems , etc. On E.M.F. 's in the dark , batteries , etc. ( 8 ) Chemical statics and dynamics of constant cells reversible in respect of Cells Produced by the Action of Light .
the cation plates solution ) .
The composition of such a system .
The reactious going on in such a system .
Proof that this system is reversible , that its composition remains constant under the action of the current , that the galvanic cells are generis .
The relationship to Gibb 's rule of phases .
( 9 ) Experimental results obtained with constant cells eversible in respect of the cation .
The constant deflections in light .
The course of the deduction and induction periods .
The law of intensity .
The E.M.F. obtained with the same system on extension of the nents for longer periods .
Influence of the composition of light upon the E.M.F. obtained ( coloured screens ) .
Influence of concentration of the solution upon the E.M.F. obtained .
10 .
physico-mathematical theory of constant cells reversible in respect of the cation .
The deduction of the genelal equation from the maximum work done by the system under the action of light .
* An experimental test and verification of the same in all its details .
The E.M.F. intensity of light .
The between the action of heat and of light upon the systems , following from the ection of the when the same plate is heated or illuminated ( at a constant temperature ) ; the author 's " " inciple of movable equilibrium for \ldquo ; ( 11 ) Chemical statics and dynamics of constant cells reversible in respect of the anion BrAg plates NaBr solution ) .
The composition of such a system .
The reactions going on in such a system .
The mechanism of the reactions .
Proof that such a system is reversible , that its composition re1nains constant the action of the current , that they are yeneris ( points of difference from ordinary galvanic cells ) .
The relationship to Gibb 's of phases .
( 12 ) results with constant cells reversible in respect of the anion , the course of the induction and deduction periods , the law of intensity , influence of conposition of light ( coloured screens ) .
Acetylene and arc .
Influence of concentration of the solution , influence of temperature , influence of the cation , transformation of constant cell into incot ) stant cells under the action of , and , the of the electrode in cells .
Experimental determination of the electrical potentials between the illuminated and not illuminated parts of the solution ; what is to be undel.stood under ' the electrode leversible in respect of the anion\ldquo ; ; on the conditions under which constant reyersible yalvanic cell can be obtained , etc. ( 13 ) The physico-mathematical theory of constant cells reversible in spcct of the anion .
A detailed theoretical and experimental investigation similar to that in ( 10 ) .
* See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 74 , 1905 , p. 369 .
VOL. LXXVII.\mdash ; A. cmic Cells Produced by the Action of Light .
( 14 ) On the E.M.F. of constant reversible cells and the intensity of light .
( Experimental proof .
) ( 15 ) Chemical velocity of reaction in homogeneous systems when they are shifted to a new point of equilibrium by light at a constant temperature , follows , after the induction period has passed , the same law of mass action as in the dark .
Further extensive experimental confirmation boiven by\ldquo ; galyanic cells created by \ldquo ; ( 16 ) Chemical equilibrium in eneous systems when shifted by light at a constant temperature to a new point , follow , after the induction period has passed , the same laws as in the dark .
( 17 ) The maximum work ( the constant of equilibrium ) and the law of intensity .
Experimental proof that in homogeneous systems where , are the velocity constants , the constant of equilibrium .
( 18 ) The connection between the velocity of chemical reaction produced by the action of intensity nbsolute temperature : when both reactions go on under the action of only or , and or .
( b ) if only one reaction goes on in , the other in the dark , At a constant temperature ( 19 ) The velocity of molecular or between different parts of the eneous system prodttced by and on only under the action of light , follow the law found by the author for those reactions in the ( 20 ) Velocity of chemical ction in heterogeneous systems produced by ( only the action of follow , after the induction period has , the laws duced by the autbor for velocity of chemical reaction in hetero , eneous systenls in the dark .
" " Repolt Btion , Liverl ) .
physik .
Chemie , ' 1899 , vol. 30 , .
eitsch .
, vol. 3 ; 'Phil .
( 6 ) , pp. .

