]\gt ; Mr. H. Blanford .
The Diurnal Barometric " " On the Relations of the Diurnal Maxima to certain critical Conditions of Temperature , Cloud , and Rainfall By HENRY F. BLANFORD , F.R.S. Received March 30 , \mdash ; Read May 3 , 1888 .
It is not my purpose in this paper to discuss the general problem of the barometric variation .
It is certainly a very complex phenomenon , and one of which no satisfactory analysis has yet been made .
The atmospheric stress ( whatever be its nature ) that originates the oscillation , is followed by movements which alter both the vertical and horizontal distribution of the gravitating mass , and the striking differeness that characterise the diurnal curve of pressure on mountain peaks , plains , and valleys , and on the ocean as compared with the land , are doubtless due in a large measure to these resulting redistributions of the mass .
Amid all the recorded variations of the oscillation as a whole , the feature that displays the greatest constancy is the occurrence of a maximum in hour of the forenoon , and of a second maximum one or two hours before midnight .
The exceptional cases , in which these two critical phases are much shifted from their normal positions , are but few , and may probably all be explained by gravitation effiects being superadded to the normal semidiurnal oscillation .
One of the most anomalous forms of the diurnal oscillation yet recorded is that given by Professor Mohn , for the North Atlantic , ween latitudes and , in the summer months .
* The general form of this pressure curve is similar to that of the diurnal temperature curve .
It falls to a minimum in the early morning hours , and rises to a maximum between 1 .
and 3 .
But of the three curves for di#erent years and latitudes given by Professor Mohn , two show , as a subordinate feature , a small rise to a secondary maximum , between 10 and , and two an irregularity in the ning such as would result from a small wave with a maximum about 7 or 8 , in combination with the principal oscillation of twenty-four hours ' period .
At Christiania and Upsala the phases of the single period oscillation are revel'sed , the maximum bei1lg in the night , the minimum in the day , but the semidiurnal element exhibits characters similar to those of the North Atlantic curve .
This comparative constancy of the semidiurnal element of the oscillalio1l , which was originally pointed out by Lamont , seems to indicate that it depends more directly on the action of the sun than * ' Norske Nordhavs Expedition , ' 1876-1878 .
: Sitzungsber . .
Bayerisch .
Akademie , ' 1862 , vol. 1 , Maxima and certain Conditions of Temperature , \amp ; c. does the diurnal element , and that its explanation is a first necessary step to that of the whole phenomenon .
The object of the present paper is to draw attention to the approximate coincidence of its maximum phases with certain critical phases of temperature , cloud , and ainfall , may at least help to throw some light on its .
causes .
orenoo)JIaximum .
It noticed independently by Espy , in 1840 , Davies , in 1859 , and , iu that the forenoon maximum of the barometric oscillation approximately coincides with the most rapid of tcmperature , and each of these writers attributed the rise of pressure to the reactionary effect of the heated and expanding atmosphere .
The only data , howevcr , given by any of them in support of the statement are the horary tions of the temperature and pressure at , by Kreil , and a rongh diagl'am of the diurnal curves at Padua , vics ; and shortly after the pubIication of Kreil 's paper , the subject was very fully discussed by Lamont , in the paper eady r to in the 'Sitzungsberichte ' the Bavarian Academy , wherein he that , on ordinary assumption that the atmosphere is free to in a vertical direction , agnin st no .
resistance than the static prcssure of the : , uperincumbent mass , the supposed reactionary effect wonld be inappreciable .
Since the publication of Lamont 's paper , I am not aware that any physicist has paid furthcr attention to the hypothesis in question , or thought ib worth while to appeal to evidcnce in cation of the on which it is base ulltil recently .
But in 1876 , in the subject of the barometric oscillation in the ' Indian Nleteorologist 's Vnde Mecum , ' it occurred to me that Lamont 's tion t the atmof$phero is free to expa vertically , lifting uporincuml ) mass , is subject to an important modificatiou which may alter the conditio1ls of the problem as contemplated by These conditions take no account of the resistance to expansion must be opposed by the highly attenuated but extremely cold external atmosphcric strata of great but unknown thickness , the existcnce of which is proved by the phenomena of luminous meteors .
If a sheet of the atmospheric envelope , of horizontal extent , resting on the earth 's surface , be heated and charged with vapour , the first effect will be an increase of its elastic tension , hich will be relieved a wave of elastic compression transmitted to the * Brit. Assoc. Rep , Part II , p. 55 .
'Edinburgh Phil. Journ vol. 10 , lS59 , p. 225 .
'Wien .
Akad .
Sitzungsber vol. 43 ( Abth .
2 ) , p. 121 .
Mr. H. F. Blanford .
The Diurnal Baro , netric overlying strata .
Having regard to the slow rate at which this wave is generated , the rise of emperature , even in such a climate as that of Northern India , not exceeding or in the hour of most rapid heating , equivalent to an increment of less than of the initial pressure , it appears to me that the rate of propagation will be sensibly that due to half the height of homogeneous atmosphere , or a little more than two-thirds the rate of the sound-wave .
This rate will be coutinually retarded as the wave advances through the loftier and colder strata , being proportional to the square root of the absolute temperature of each .
And it will depend on the thickness of the atmospheric sheet heated , the amounb of the heating , and the thickness and temperature of the cold external strats , whether the may not be such as to allow of the tension of the lower strata becoming such as is indicated by the barometer at the time of the forenoon maximum .
Under such circumstances , the instant of maximum pressure shouId coincide with that of the mosb rapid rise of temperature and vaporisation .
I do not think that our knowlsdge of any of these fundamental conditions is such as to justify a rejection of the hypothesis on a , priori grounds , and it may therefore be worthy of inquiry how far it is in accordance with verifiable observation .
At Calcutta , the atmospheric pressure at 9 .
is about greater than at the time of the mol.ning minimum ; an increase which would be produced by heating the in a closed vessel less than .
A retardation of about half an hour in the dissipation of the increased pressure produced by heating and evaporation would suffice to produce the observed effect .
Dr. , in his admirable manual , the 'Lehrbuch der Meteorologie , ' published in 1885 , has referred to the above hypothesis , has tested the coincidence of the critical phasos of temperature and by the summer results of the hourly observations and autographic registers of the Prague Observatory , from 1842 to 1861 , which have been recomputed by Professor Augustin .
The result this test appears to be satisfactory .
At Prague , on the mean of the summer months , the forenoon barometric maximum occurs a little after 8 , and ] coincides with the most rapid rise of temperature .
In India there is no station at which the forenoom maximum falls at so early an hour at amy season ; but at arkand and Kashghar , according to .
Scully 's valuable observations , in the summer , 1 occurs even earlier than at Prague , while in the winter it is as late as the mean epoch at Calcutta .
It is true we have only fifteen series of , p. 336 .
As computed from the figures given by Dr. Sprung , by applica ion of the method of differences ( see footnote below ) , the barometric maximum occun nineteen minutes later than the instant of most rapid heating .
Maxima and certain Conditions of Iemperature , .
413 hourly readings for the winter montbs , November to oruary , taken at intervals of seven or eight days , and but eight series for June and July , but so regular is the march of the diurnal variation both of temperature and pressure in this climate , that even these suffice to show tlJe distinctive characters of the curves at both seasons .
The tions have been published ab length in the first volume of the ' Indi Metcorological Memoirs .
To eliminate small irre ularities , rected hourly valnes have been comput from these by means of the harmonic formula .
A very exact erminalion of the critical phases cannot of expected from such data , but according to the method of comptltation adopted , the epochs of forenoon pressure maximum and of most rapid heating are as follow at the two seasons : \mdash ; .
rise temp. Bar .
Wintcr months . . . .
9 Summel months . .
7 .
, , 7 .
, , *Op .
et vol. , p. 94 , et seq. Througl ) paper the time of most rapid heating has been determined in the following manner : in gene , from the uncorrected means of the observations , hich , for the leasons shown by Dr. Bergsma ( ' Batavia .
and Met .
Obs vol. 1 , in accordance with my own experience and that of Indian meteorologists , if the observations are sufficiently extenve , are more trustworthy than the so called col.l.ected valucs obtained by computing them from three or four of the halmonic formula .
The instant of most rapid l.ise of may bo asccrtained ttvice differentiating for the values of the formultl which the temperature as a of time , and putting Ihe most convenicnt form for this purpose is that of the method of differences employed by .
Jelinck obtaining fhc approximate times of the maximum and minimum phases of tempcl'ature , pressul.e , \amp ; c. On taking the , second , and third nces of the tempcratures at the clock hours , before and two afler the inst .
of most rapid rise , the hour in Lhis occurs is shown by the cl , ange of alget)raical 81gn of the sccond order of differences .
Denoting that which precedes this ange by , and the differcnces of the first and third order next follow ing in order of sequencc by and , the second differcntiation of the formula . . . .
neglccting the terms , gives whencc which value of reckons from the clock hour corresponding to .
The epoch thus obtainod has an error of a few minutes , and is quite cnough .
the present purpose .
414 Mr. H. F. Blanford .
The Diurnal Barometric Considering the character of the data and the method of computation , this close coincidence in the winter months must be regarded as in some degree fortuitous .
In order to test the hypothesis more thoroughly , I have selected four stations , the data for which are more ample , and thoroughly trustworthy , viz. , Bombay , Calcutta , Batavia , and Melbourne ; and in the case of the Iast three , I have compared the critical phases in question for every month of the year .
The data for Bombay are taken from Mr. C. Chambers 's volume on the Meteorology of the Bombay Presidency .
The barometric data for Calcutta are extracted from vol. 1 of the 'Indian Meteorological Memoirs , ' and as I have not the corresponding thermometrical data at hand , have substituted those obtained from the measurements of the Alipore photographic traces for the six years 1881-1885 .
These latter relate , therefore , to a different and later series of years , and are furnished by a different observatory , but this is hardly a matter of importance .
The Batavian data are taken from the first volume of Dr. Bergsma 's and Metsorological Observations , ' and have been derived from the hourly readings of three years ; and the Melbourue data are from Dr. Neumayer 's discussion of the observations of the F ] agstaff Observatory .
They extend over five years .
The results are shown in the following table:\mdash ; Bombay . .
rise temp. Bar . .
Interval .
April to September , mean 7 } October to March , , 7 .
, , 9 .
, , and certain Conditions of .
415 Mr. H. F. Blanford .
The Diurnal Barometric this table it appears that only in one or two of the winter months at Batavia and Melbourne does the forenoon maximum of coincide so nearly with the moment of most , pid heating as at Prague and Yarkand .
In au cases , except in the midwinter months at Melbourne , the former follows the latter by an rval which averages 31 minutes at Melbourne , 35 minutes at Batavia , 1 hour and 8 minutes Calcutta , and 1 hour and 48 minutes at Bombay .
But it is to be noticed that , at all the stations , this interval is shortest in the winter and greatest in the summer .
It is true that the computed temperature epochs may be 10 minutes or so in error , owing to the merely approximative character of the method adopted , and that , for an hour or more afterwards , the change in the rate of rise is very small , not exceeding a few tenths of a degree per hour ; but the retardation of the barometric maximum is too systematic to be explained away by any such considerations .
There are , however , others of a very obvious character .
The hypothesis attributes the increase of pressure in the forenoon to the mean crease of tension in the atmosphere up to a very great height , not to that of the lowest stratum-only .
And since this latter is heated much more rapidly than the higher strata , and that , owing to variations in the character of the earth 's surface , the rates of heating in contiguous areas of the lower strata themselves vary indefinitely , the convective movements , which are set up in consequence , produce innumerable modifications in the form of the local temperature curves , which will to a great extent eliminate each other when a mean is taken of those of higher and lower strata ; and the general form of this curve for the greater mass of the superincumbent atmosphere must be much more constant than that deduced from the thermometer readings of our observatories .
Generally , as was assumed by Lamont in his discussion of the problem , the critical phases of the former will be later than those of the latter .
This retardation will be greatest where the diurnal range of temperature is greatest , and especially at such intertropical stations as Bombay and Calcutta .
bservatory aombay , must bnfluenced ihighdegree binflux oeighbourhoodbut otmosphere ialmSituated onarrow point ourrounded , directionsThe dmarch otory a ncreasing wemperature.inwest comes dovement oheand awind fuarter okher tetween north andergoeS ight check ather stations.ight , sshown iowing twhich gives tmount o Maxima and ceriain Conditions of Temperature , .
417 each hour from 6 .
to noon in each half of the year .
But it is sufficient to explain the early occurrence of its maximum .
Hourly Change of the Forenoon Temperature at Bombay .
Hour . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6 8 to9 April to September . . .
Fahr. October to March . .
, , Hour . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9 to 10 10 to 11 to noon April to September . . .
Fahr. October to March . .
At Calcutba , Batavia , and Melbourne , the observatories are sufficiently far from the sea to exclude the supposition that they are subject to its influence in anything like the same degree as Bombay , but at all of these the temperature must be influenced by convection , which is most active in the .
months ; and , as already remarked , ib is at this season that the instant of most rapid be ting precedes the barometric maximum by the interval .
In certain of the winter months , , August at Batavia , and May and July at Melbourne , the time of most rapid heating , and that of the balometric maximum are as nearly coincident as at and Yarkand ; and in June , at Melbourne , the latter appears to anticipate the former by about half an .
Of this opposite anomaly I am not prepared with any explanation .
More han one circumstance might be imagined in the conditions of the observatory which would retard the instant of greatest rise , but without searching inquiry and examination on the spot , any lggestion would be mere vain surmise .
I may , however , notice that the June of temperature departs from the ordinary parabolic form in a manner that points to the existence of some ocal iegularity , that similnr are noticeable in other parts of some others of the monthly curves .
As a final conclusion , if hese data , when snbjected to the ' test I have applied , do not give strong support to the hypothesis , neither do ) , with the single exception just mentioned , show any discrepancy which is not susceptible of a simple and probable explanation ; and the single exception is one might also prooably be explained , were the requisite information avail ] The tendency of the skies to clear after stlnset in settled weather has been noticed by many writers , even in the variable climates of Europe , and in India it is most strikiog at all seasons of the year .
The cloud registers of nearly all stations at wlJich hourly observations have been made , show a strongly marked minimum $ Mr. H. F. Blanford .
The Diurnal Barometric between sunset and midnight , the average hour being about 10 .
; and some show a second subordinate minimum about 9 or 10 The cloud curves for Allahabad given by Mr. S. A. Hill on Plate 28 , vol. 1 of the ' Indian MeteoroIogical Memoirs , ' exhibit both these minima in most months of the year , that of the evening.being the absolute minimum of the twenty-four hours .
On the average of the year , the msaIl proportion , at 10 , is ( to 10 scale ) , that of the twenty-four hours being : the deficiency therefore is more than one-sixth .
The cloud curves of Melbourne given by Dr. Neumayer also show that , in every month except November , the diurnal minimum of cloud is between 7 .
and 1 .
; and , on the mean of the whole year , it occurs at 9 .
At this hour , the proportion is , the genoral mean of the twenty-four hours being ; so that , here also , the deficiency amounts to one-sixth of the average .
At Bombay , absolute minimum , accordir .
to Mr. Chambel 8 table , occurs at 8 and 9 , and the deficiency is one-ninth of the general average .
The mean diurnal cloud curves of Allahabad , Melbourne , and Bombay , for the average of the whole year are given in figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 .
Maxima and certain Conditionu of emperature , .
419 More striking than any of these is the concurrent evidence afforded by the diurnal variation of the Calcutta rainfall .
Two series of data have been published ; the one basedon hourly observations of the occurrence of rain during twenty-one years , other giving the results of seven years ' records of a self-registering rain-gauge , which affords measurememts of the quantities that self in each hour as well as an of rainy hours .
The two are generally accordant , and exhibit a diurnal fluctuation of a remarkably pronounced character .
This differs at different seasons of the year , as might indeed be anticipated , and it is in the rainy season , when the air is * ' Asiat .
Soc. Bengal Journ vol. 48 , 1879 , Part II , p. 41 .
'Indian lIeteor .
Mem vol. 4 , p. 43 .
Mr. H. F. Blanford .
Th Diurnal Barometric arest to saturation , that the forenoon and late evening minima are most strongly developed .
The numerical resuIts of this season , afforded by both series , and also those of the whole year , are given in the following table , and , in parallel columns , smoothed values obtained by the formula where , and the observed values for any three consecutive hours , and the smoothed value of the middle term .
The curves afforded by the latter for the seven-year series are represented by figs. 4 and 5 .
and certain Conditions of Temperature , Mr. H. F. Blanford .
The Diurnal Barometric In the rainy season there were 2929 rainy hours in the seven years , giving an avera , ge of for each hour of the day .
But for the honr between 10 and P.lf .
there were but 78 instances of rain , or but two-thirds of this average , and from 8 to 9 .
but 91 instances of rain , or three-fourths of the average .
The deficiency in the quantity of the rainfall was even more striking .
The average per hour of the day was inches , but the recorded amount for the hour between 10 and ] .
was only inches , or less than two-fifths of the general average , and that from 9 to 10 .
was inches , or little more than two-thirds .
Another equally striking example of the approximate coincidence of interrnptions of the rainfa about the time of the diurnal maxima of pressure , is afforded by Batavia , on the evidence of ten years ' registers of the hourly rainfall , publisbed by Dr. Bergsma in the 3rd volnme of the ' Batavia Observations .
' Here also , it is only the rainy reason ( December to January ) that exhibits this feature in a very decisive manner , and the coincidence is tlJe more remarkable , since , in another respect , the diurnal variation of the of Batavia stands in marked contrast to that of Calcutta .
At Calcutta the greater proportion of the rain falls in the daytime ; at Batavia at night .
The percentages were respcctively as follows:\mdash ; .
Batavia .
From 6 to 6 per cent. per cent. From 6 .
to 6 , , And the Batavian maximum folIows the minimum within four hours , in the proportion of 5 to 2 .
The following table gives the total rainfall in millimetres , recorded at each hour of the day of the three rainy months during the ten years 1866-1875 excepted ) , and in a parallel column the smoothed values computed as in the former case .
The curve , fig. 6 , is drawn from these latter figures .
Total Hourly Rainfall at Batavia ( December to February ) , tem years .
Maxima and certain Conditions of Temperature , .
423 The general verage of all the hours is 412 mm. per hour , but the quantity recorded between 9 and 10 .
is only 231 mm. , or } more than half , and that and mm. , or little more bhan three-fifths of this average .
It is to be observed that the forenoon minimum of Batavia falls an hour later than that of Calcutta , whereas the and principal minimum is an hour earlier .
This is exactly what might be expected from the combination of a double diurnal oscillation with one of period , the latter having its maximum in the former case at night , in the latter in the daytime .
The Melbourne tables show great variations in different months , and admit of very little definite conclusion , except that , as at Batavia , is more rain at night than in the day .
It is then only in the warm and neal .
lie saturated atmosphere of Bengal and Java , in their respective rainy seasons , that these diurnal ruptions of the rainfall about the hours of the two rometric maxima are decidedly manifested .
Bub in these two cases they are most ; and this cumstance , taken in conjunction with the corresponding cIoud variation , which is shown by so many st tions , poinls strongly to a causal connexion between the diurnal of pressure and the condensation of atmospheric vapour in the forming strata of the atmosphere , which , I think , we can scarcely faiJ to nise .
The mere fact that an incrcase of pressure , from whatever cause , is accompanied with a dissipation of cloud a diminution of rainfall , old not perhaps call for special remark .
But it is to be observed whereas the nocturnal barometric maximum , at all the stations here dealt vitll , is less pronounced than that of the forenoon , the concomitant effects in the of the atmosphere and in the check in the rainfall are much greater in the former than in the latter .
They seem to point fo a forcible compression of the atmosphere , and dynamic of the And some such temporary effect does not seem impossible , even at a time when the earth 's surfacc and the immediafely in contact with it are cooling rapidly .
Morcover the temperature curves of Prague , Calcutta , and Batavia all show a very irregularity about which indicates a check in the fall of temperature about that hour greater than takes place in the preceding or subsequent hour , and hich may possibly be ] manifestation of such an ction in the lowest atmospheric atum .
as it is , the fact that it occul .
S at the same hour in all these curves , and that it coincides with the evening maximum and the strongly marked minima of cloud and rainfall , is at least significant .
Wben we the differences of the first and second orders of the hourly means of the original observations , at the three stations Mr. H. .
Blanford .
The Diurnal Barometric specified , it is found that the second diflerence corresponding to lO P.N1 .
, lvith a positive sign , has a greater numerical value tham either of those preceding and following it , instead of an intermediate value , as would be the case if the fall of temperature after sundown were decreasing uniformly .
In the following tables , the gures for Prague and Batavia epresent hundredths of a centigrade degree , those for Calcutta hundredths of a Fahrenheit degree .
The figures for Calcutta are derived from only six years ' autographic traces ; those for Prague , apparently from eighteen or twenty years ' observations and traces ; and those for Batavia from ten years ' readings of a standard thermometer .
No correction has been applied to the means of the observations as recorded .
Prague ( summer ) .
Hours , .
7 to 8 to 9 to 10 to 11 to mid .
Change of temperature . .
of rate of fall . .
Calcutta ( year ) .
Hours , 5 to 6 to 7 to 8 to 9 to 10 to 11 to mid .
Change of temperature . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change of rate of fall . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Batavia ( year ) .
Hours , .
, . . . . . . .
5 to 6 to 7 to 8 to 9 to 10 to 11 to mid .
Change of temperature . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changs of rate of fall. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
only further point of some nificance , to which I have to draw abtention , is that the hour of the evening barometric maximum about coincides with the time when the temperature curve ceases to be stl.ongly concave , and becomes nearly rectilinear , indicating a nearly uniform rate of cooling from that time up to just sunrise .
This fact suggests the possibility that the evelling maximum of pressure may be determined by the check in the descent of the cooling and collapsing atmosphere which takes place from 6 or 7 .
to about 10 But it is very probably combined with other elements , *This explanation , suggested by Kreil and Espy , and also by myself in a paper re before the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1876 .
On it Dr. Sprung remarks:\mdash ; " " Es bleibt aber inzlich unverstandlich , weshalb dieser Effect , schon um 10 Uhr nbends , und nicht sir Zeit des mums gegen 6 Ubr Maxima and certain Conditions of Temperature , \amp ; c. among which may be the return of the morning wave of pressure .
And indeed unless there be such repetition , it is difficult to understand why the rise of pressure sets in so early as between 4 and 5 in the afternoon , instead of between 6 and .
; that is , afcer the time when the fall is most rapid .
And unless the evening wave is repeated in like manner , to explain why the morning rise of pressure begins at least two hours before sunrise .
Note added , 1888 .
Since the oing paper was read before the Society , I have received a table of the mean horary readings of the thermomeber , recorded at the Surveyor-General 's office , Calcutta , ( formerly the CaIcutta Observatory ) during the same years that have furnished the data , quoted in the text , page 415 .
Theyhave been computed to hundredths of a Fahrenheit degree , and are as follow\mdash ; ( p. 426 ) .
The instant of the most rapid rise of forenoon temperature computed from these figures by the method described in the footnote on page 413 is as follows in each month:\mdash ; .
rise temp. .
bar .
Inlerval .
January . . . .
February . . . .
8 46 9 52 1 8 March . . . . . .
8 46 9 47 11 April . . . . . .
8 22 9 ) 1 13 May . . . . . . . .
7 54 9 23 1 29 June . . . . . . . .
8 2 9 22 1 20 July- . . . . . . .
7 55 9 33 1 38 August . . . .
8 24 9 38 1 14 September . .
7 9 3 .
1 52 October . . . .
7 44 9 25 1 41 Novembel . .
7 56 9 24 128 December . .
8 56 9 40 Year . . . .
8 27 9 35 1 8 The variations from month to month shown by this table are , as might be expected , less than in the table at page 415 computed from six years only , but the mean interval for the whole year is exactly the same .
The regularity of the evening fall of rature noticed at page 423 does not appear in the results of this table , and it must therefore ain doubtful whether its occurrence in the three registers quoted in the text is more than a fortuitous coincidence .
morgens eintreten soll This objection would be quite valid were the cooling of the atmosphere proceeding at an uniform rate , but not , I think , to the actual facts of the case as above set forth .
This was not noticed in my former communication to which Dr. refers .
VOL. XLIV .
426 Mr. F. H. Blanford .
Diurnal Barometric illaxima .

