V. Experiments concerning the Effects of Air passed through red hot Metals , &amp;c. By Mr F. Hauksbee , F. R. S. IN order to find what Effect such a Medium , as Air passed thro ' red hot Metals , might have on the Lives of Animals , I contrived the following Method .
I took a large Receiver open at top , in Diameter about 4 Inches , which was covered with a Brass Plate and wet Leather , as usual in Glasses of such a make .
To this Plate at top ( which had a Screw with a small Perforation ) belonged a Cock , and from that Cock proceeded a small hollow Wire , about 3 feet in length : That End of this hollow Wire , which was remote from the Receiver , was put into a hollow Piece of Cast Brass , pretty thick in substance , but the Hole was not quite through : And the Hole being larger than the small hollow Wire , it was wedged into the same with Pieces of Steel Wire , till the Cast Brass was filled as full as it could contain .
In this manner it was put into a Charcoal Fire , and there it lay till it was thoroughly red hot .
The Receiver being then exhausted of its Air , the Cock on the upper part of it was turned , which gave liberty for that Air only , which of necessity must pass thro ' the red hot Metals , to succeed .
This Air first passing down thro ' the small Ducts between the red hot Wires , before it could come to enter the red hot hollow Brass Wire , must of necessity suffer or undergo such a Change , as Fire or the Fumes of such red hot Metals would give it .
When the Receiver was filled with this Air , and had stood some little time , the Brass Cover was taken off , and a pretty large Cat immediately plunged into it : The Cover being laid on again , the Cat immediately fell into Convulsions , and in less than a Minute appeared without any sign of Life .
Then being taken out of the Receiver and laid on the Floor , she continued as Dead ; but in less that a Minute of time she began to discover Life by motion in her Eyes , and after 2 or 3 hideous Squalls , she began to recover apace ; but was very fierce , and did spit and fly ( as well as her Weakness would suffer her ) at any one that offered to touch her ; and it seemed hazardous for any one then to attempt it .
But after half an hours time , or thereabouts , as her Strength and Ease recovered , so her former Temper increased upon her , suffering herself to be handled without any sign of fierceness , as before .
As to the Effect , which the same sort of Factitious Air has upon Flame , take as follows .
I no sooner came to plunge a lighted Candle into it , but it was immediately extinguished : And this I several times observed , that when the Candle was slowly immersed , so much of the Wick ( which before was lighted ) as came but within the verge of the Glass , died ; and so the rest successively , as it descended to the same place : And this upon several repetitions , answered much the ~ .
But in some time , as the common Air came to mix with it , one might plunge the lighted Candle lower and lower , before it did go out , till at last it would remain burning at bottom .
As to the Elasticity and Specific Gravity of the foremention 'd Medium , I have made several trials , ( and I think very accurate , ) but find it no ways differing from Common Air , in respect to those Properties .
Hence it follows , That the foregoing Effect , is no ways assisted from any Imperfection or defect in the last mentionod Properties : Therefore the following Queries seem to offer themselves Query 1 .
Whether Air itself may so suffer in its own Nature , by any sort of Fire , as to be divested of the Power of subsisting Life or Flame : Or , Query 2 .
Whether the Effluvia , or Steems , proceeding from the red hot Metals , which the Air may take along with it in its Passage near them , do not very much contribute , if not wholly occasion the Effect .
If the ~ takes place , I presume it may in some measure be applied to account for the Effect , that the Damps , or Steems , which arise from Subterraneous Caverns , impregnated with Mettaline Effluvia , have on the Lives of Animals : And yet at the same time , the same Air way suffer no Change in respect to its other Properties , I mean its Elasticity and Specific Gravity , in comparision with other Air in the same Region .
Experiments concerning the Effect of Air pasid thro ' a Degree of Heat , equal to that of boiling Water .
I Contrived a Brass Box , about 4 Inches long , and an Inch and half over : At one end , which I soder 'd up I fixed two small Brass Tubes ; one of which went thro ' , and reached the Remoter end nearly ; the other Tube was but just inserted in it , but each of them long enough to reach sufficiently above the Surface of the Water in which they were to be put .
These Tubes were to convey the Air into a Receiver exhausted of its Air : It passed first into that Tube which nearly reached its opposite end , and so into the other which lead to the exhausted Receiver .
But the Box , with that part of the Tube that was within it , was first pressed full of Brass Dust ; which I had the convenience to do by means of a Brass Cap , which screwed on to the end , not before mentioned .
This Brass Dust I moistned with a little Water , thinking thereby to exert a more than ordinary Steam , or Effluvia , from the Mettal , which the Air might take along with it , as it passed through such strait and narrow Avenues , as it must do between the Brass Dust .
In this manner it was put into the Water ~ Cold , and continued in it till it had boiled a considerable time ; by which means it must , in all its Parts , be of the same Degree of Heat ( at least ) as the boiling Water .
Thus it was taken out , and applied to the exhausted Receiver ; where , upon turning a Cock , I gave the liberty for that Air only to pass into it , which must succeed through the Brass Box and Dust , under the Circumstances before mentioned .
When the Receiver was full of this Air , the Cover was taken off , and a lighted Candle plunged into it , where it continued burning , even at the bottom , as if it had passed through no such Medium , but had been full of Common Air .
I took that Method to try it , believing the Flame of a Candle to be the most tender way of discovering a Change in Air .
Afterwards I repeated the same Experiment over again , with dry Brass Dust instead of the former ; but the Success was the same .
Therefore it seems to me , that such a Degree of Heat , as that of boiling Water , is not sufficient to cause any considerable Change ( if any at all ) in the Air ; nor such a Degree of Heat , able to strike any Injurious , or suffocating Effluvia , out of the Metalline Particles .
Some other Experiments on the foregoing Head .
THE passing of Air through a red hot Glass Tube into an exhausted Receiver , had no manner of influence on a Sparrow put into the same : But upon passing of Air through red hot Charcoal , before it entered the Tube that conveyed it into the exhausted Receiver , the fore-mentioned Animal , in that Medium in about a quarter of a Minute , gave signs of presently expiring ; but being taken out at the same time did recover , and continued living and well for some Days after .
Yet it was concluded , had the Birds continuance in the Receiver been but double that time , her recovery would have been very doubtful .
I have likewise tried Air passed through the Flames of Spirit of Wine , and Oil of Turpentine : The Effect was much the same as to the Spirit of Wine , the Flame of a Candle being immediately extinguished upon its being plunged into it : But the Air which passed through the Flame of the Oil of Turpentine took some Unctious Fumes along with it into the exhausted Receiver ; which Fumes , upon the near approach a lighted Candle , suddenly took fire , and continued to burn on the upper Surface , till they were stifled by covering close the Receiver : And upon several Repetitions it answered much the same , till the whole quantity of Fume was consumed .

