1 .
" Observations on the Physiology of the Nerves of Sensation , illustrated by a case of Paralysis of the Fifth Pair .
" By John Bishop , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The influence of the fifth pair of nerves on the functions of sight , smell , and taste , is a subject which has lately occupied the attention of physiologists .
Many experiments have been made on living any ?
mals with a view to its elucidation ; but these experiments have never led to any satisfactory conclusion .
Considerable light has been thrown upon this obscure question by the phenomena attendinga case of pa ?
ralysis of the fifth pair of nerves , which occurred in the author 's prac ?
tice , and of which he gives the history in detail , after quoting the account given by Magendie of his experiments and speculations respect ?
ing the functions of these nerves .
The lady who was the subject of these observations had been affected with total insensihility of the left side of the face and head , to ?
gether with strabismus , accompanied with double vision ; but the powers of voluntary motion of all these parts remained entire .
The globe of the left eye was quite insensible to touch , though it retained the power of vision unimpaired , excepting that for some time previous to death it had lost the faculty of distinguishing colours .
The left nostril received no impressions from the most irritating stimulants , such as snuff or ammonia ; yet the sense of smelling continued unimpaired .
The left side of the tongue was quite insensible to im ?
pressions both of touch and of taste .
On examining the brain after death , a scirrhous tumour was found lying on the inner surface of the sphenoid bone , extending laterally to the foramen auditorium internum , and resting posteriorly on the pons Varolii , which was slightly ulcerated .
The tumour had completely obliterated the foramina for the exit of the three branches of the fifth pair of nerves .
This case proves , therefore , that , contrary to the opinion of Magendie , the senses of smell and vision can be exercised independently of the fifth pairof nerves ; and that the sense of taste is altogether derived from that nerve ; and corroborates the views of Sir Charles Bell on this part of physiology .

