The Croonian Lecture. .
A further Investigation of the CoZmponent Parts of the Blood .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read November 4 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 1 .
] In this communication Sir Everard announces the existence in certain animal structures of globules smaller than and independent of those ordinarily belonging to the blood ; they were first remarked by I\r .
Bauer , clduring the microscopic examination of the coats of an aneurismal tumour ; their number was in the proportion of one to four of the larger globules , and their diameter was , -yof an inch in the larger in contact with the circulating blood ; in the other layers they became more numerous , and in that longest coagulated were in the proportion of four to one .
In the section of an aneurismal tumour , the author notices the uncommon appearance of crystals of sulphate of lime with muriate and phosphate of soda , which , as well as the globules , he supposes to have been originally dissolved in the serum , since they are only brought to view by the act of coagulation .
In coagulable lymph deposited during violent inflammation , the same small globules were observed , mixed with a few colourless blood globules .
The globules , stated by the author in a former lecture to have been produced in the serum , are also of a similar nature ; and to distinguish them from the larger blood globules , he proposes to call them globules of lymph .
In the buff of blood they were very numerous in the upper and firmest part , but the lower and softer layer consisted principally of blood globules .
A tumour in the prostate gland was found Mr. Bauer to contain both kinds of globules , and a considerable proportion of transparent jelly .
The hard compact part of a tumour in the breast consisted chiefly of lymph globules and elastic jelly .
In its softer part the blood globules predominated , so that the structure of these tumours is nearly allied to that of aneurismal sacs .
In buffy blood the proportion of aeriform matter , evolved under the exhausted receiver of the air-pump , was less than that of healthy blood , and appeared in excess in the blood drawn from the arm of a person an hour after a hearty meal .
In the mucus of the pylorus and duodenum Mr. Bauer found lymph and blood globules .
In the chyle he found the size of the globules various ; tlose which were very small increased in size whilst under the microscope , and became as large as blood globules enveloped in their colouring matter ; they appeared opake and milk white .
Mr. Bauer is satisfied , from these observations , that the globules of the blood are perfectly formed in the mesenteric glands , with the exception of colour , which they receive in the vessels of the lungs .

