148 On the Twenty-seven Lines on a Cubic Surface .
[ June 15 , looked that a displacement is not defined by the direction of axis , and amplitude , of the resultant rotation , together with the magnitude of the component of the corresponding translation along that direction ( for in this form the proof is given , the axis being drawn through one end of the common perpendicular to the particular couple in respect of which the theorem is demonstrated ) , since these elements are common to an infinity of displacements .
This being premised , the laws connecting pairs of axes by successive rotations round which a given displacement of a rigid body in space may be effected are as follows\#151 ; If the first axis f ' ) is taken arbitrarily , say parallel to a given vector , and passing through the term of a second given vector , f ' , its conjugate is parallel to a vector ( \#163 ; ) , the side common to three quadric cones , the constants of which are functions of g , and the vectors defining the displacement .
Each of these cones , whatever the direction of passes through one of three fixed vectors .
The directions of the axes being fixed in accordance with the above conditions , the locus of either axis is a plane , the places of the axes in which are so related that the connector of the feet of perpendiculars on them from any fixed point generates a ruled quadric surface .
[ The last three paragraphs have been altered ( July 15 ) after a correspondence , since the reading of the note on 15th June , with which Professor W. Burnside , F.R.S. ( who , however , is not responsible for any statement herein ) , favoured me ; as the result of which he sent me a geometrical proof that one axis might in all cases be taken arbitrarily both in position and direction .
On revising my analysis , I found that what I had taken as an equation of condition was reducible to an identity .
] XI .
" On a Graphical Representation of the Twenty-seven Lines on a Cubic Surface .
" By H. M. Taylor , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by A. R. Forsyth , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1893 , ( Abstract .
) The converse of Pascal 's well-known theorem may be stated thus : if two triangles be in perspective , their non-corresponding sides intersect in six points lying on a conic .
An extension of this theorem to three dimensions may be stated thus : if two tetrahedrons be in perspective , their non-corresponding faces intersect in twelve straight 1893.1 On the Ichthyosauria lines lying on a cubic surface .
This theorem may be deduced from the equation xyzu = ( ai+aT ) ( y + bT ) ( \#171 ; +cT ) ( it-j-dT ) , \#166 ; where T = %x-\- fiy+\lt ; yz + bu ; and a , c , d , a 7 , are constants .
The equations of twelve lines on the surface are evident .
This paper shows how the remaining fifteen straight lines on the surface may be obtained by means of nothing higher than quadratic equations , and determines which of these lines intersect each other .
The paper then proceeds to give a graphical method of representing all the intersections of the twenty-seven lines on a cubic surface by means of a plane diagram , which admits of many interesting t ransformation s. By the help of such diagrams some of the- known relations of the twenty-seven lines to each other are deduced , and some theorems with respect to the lines , which it is believed are new , are established ; for instance , the number of closed quadrilaterals , pentagons , and hexagons on the surface is determined , as well as the number of ways in which nine triple tangent planes can be drawn to pass through all the twenty-seven lines , and the number of ways in which twelve of the lines can be chosen , so that they are the intersection of two tetrahedrons in perspective .
XII .
" Further Observations on the Shoulder Girdle and Clavicular Arch in the Ichthyosauria and Sauropterygia .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received May 25 , 1893 .
On January 18 , 1892 , I communicated to the Royal Society observations on the nature of the shoulder girdle and clavicular arch in Sauropterygia , which were read on February 18 , and published in the , Proceedings on June 25 , 1892 .
These studies had grown out of the examination of new remains of Anomodont Reptiles , which I obtained in South Africa ; and were the result of an endeavour to gain a knowledge of structures in which the shoulder girdle in extinct Reptilia admitted of detailed comparison with those materials .
I had made examination of the same region of the skeleton in Plesiosaurs and Ichthyosaurs , and communicated the results to the Geological Society , which were published in the Journal of that Society in November and December , 1874 .
In the paper of 1892 I endeavoured to correct , enlarge , or justify interpretations previously given .
One aspect of this revision led to a controversial paper , challenging some points of interpretation which occur among the facts in my contribution .
It is entitled " On the Shoulder Girdle in Ichthyosauria and Sauropterygia , " by J. W.Hulke ,

