166 Dr. D. H. Scott .
O Structure and \#166 ; " On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Pocks .
II .
On , a new Genus of Lycopodiaceous Cones from the Coal-measures , founded on the Lepidodendron Spenceriof Williamson .
" By D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Hon. Keeper of the Jodreli Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read November 18 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The fossils which form the subject of the present paper are Cryptogamic strobili , showing evident Lycopodiaceous affinities , but differing in important points from other fructifications of that family , so that it appears necessary to establish a new genus for their reception .
Two species are described , one of which ( is already known to us from the investigations of Williamson , who named it first Lepidostrobus insignis , and afterwards Lepidodendron Spenceri* while the other ( Spencerites )is new .
In one of his latest publications , Williamson pointed out that it might ultimately be necessary to make his Lepidodendron Spenceri the type of a new genus , f The separation thus suggested is now carried out , on the basis of a renewed investigation of the structure of this fossil .
Spencerites insignis is a pedunculate strobilus ; the vegetative organs are not as yet identified .
The specimens are calcified , and their structure admirably preserved .
The anatomy of the axis is of a simple Lycopodiaceous type , but differs in details ( such as the course of the leaf-trace bundles ) from that of the axis of Lepidostrobus .
The peduncle bears sterile bracts , similar to the sporophylls of the cone itself ; the latter are arranged spirally , or in some cases in alternating verticils .
The individual sporophylls are of peltate form , consisting of a short cylindrical pedicel , expanding into a relatively large lamina .
The sporangia are approximately spherical bodies ; unlike those of Lepidostrobus , they are quite free from the pedicel , and are attached by a narrow base to the upper surface of the lamina , where it begins to expand .
The details of the sporangial wall are quite different from those of Lepidostrobus , and the spores are also characteristic .
In size they are intermediate between the microspores and macrospores of * Williamson , " Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures , " Parts IX , X , XVI , and XIX , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1878 , 1880 , 1889 , and 1893 .
f General Indes , Part II , 1893 , p. 24 .
Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Pocks .
167 Lepidostrobus .
They are of tetrahedral form , becoming spheroidal when mature , and each spore has a hollow , annular wing running round its equator .
The wing is no doubt formed by a dilation of the cuticle , * and not , as Williamson supposed , from the abortive sister-cells .
Spencerites majusculus , the new species , is much larger than the former , the axis of the cone being twice as thick .
The anatomy is similar , but the sporophylls , and consequently the leaf-traces , are more numerous .
The sporophylls , which are arranged in alternating verticils , are relatively short , and of peculiar form ; the lamina is very thick , and of great tangential width .
The sporangia are like those of the former species , and similarly inserted , but the spores are quite different .
They are smaller than those of S. and have the form of quadrants of a sphere , with narrow wings along their three angles .
The genus is separated from L , mainly on account of the very different mode of insertion of the sporangia , a character which is accompanied by differences in the form of the sporophylls and sporangia , the structure of the sporangial wall and of the spores , and the whole habit of the strobilus .
Spencerites , and especially S. insignis , bears a considerable resemblance to the Sigillariostrobus of Zeiller , but cannot be united with the genus Sigillariostrobus , for the insertion of the sporangia in the latter , as shown in the Sigillariostrobus ciliatus of Kidston , is totally different .
The author is much indebted both to M. Zeiller and Mr. Kidston , for the loan of their specimens for examination .
The generic and specific characters may provisionally run as follows:\#151 ; Spencerites , gen .
nov .
Cone consisting of a cylindrical axis , bearing numerous simple sporophylls , arranged spirally , or in crowded alternating verticils .
Sporophylls short , formed of a sub-cylindrical pedicel , expanding into a large peltate lamina .
Sporangia solitary on each sporophyll , inserted , by a narrow base , on the upper surface of the lamina , but free from the pedicel .
Sporangial wall consisting of a single layer of prosenchymatous cells .
Spores winged .
1 .
Spencerites insignis , ( Will ) .
Lepidostrobus , sp. , Will .
" Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures , " Part 9 , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1878 , p. 340 , figs. 39 to 47 and 52 to 57 .
* Cf .
Solms-Laubacli , ' Fossil Botany , ' p. 239 .
Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants .
Lepidostrobus insignis , Will .
Loc .
Part 10 , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , p. 502 , figs. 11 and 12 .
Lepidodendron Spenceri , Will .
Loc .
cit. Part 16 , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1889 , p. 199 , figs. 19 to 22 ; Part 19 , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1893 , p. 24 , figs. 41 to 50 .
Cone pedunculate ; peduncle bractigerous .
Whole cone 8\#151 ; 10 mm. in diameter .
Axis , 35\#151 ; 5 mm. in diameter .
Sporophylls , 2\#151 ; 2'5 mm. long ; lamina distinctly peltate , vertically elongated .
Sporangia approximately spherical .
Spores tetrahedral , becoming spheroidal when free , with a hollow equatorial wing .
Maximum diameter of spore , without wing , about 0T4 mm. ; with wing , about 0-28 mm. Wood of axis without prominent angles , with or without pith .
Outer cortex containing distinct bands of sclerenchyma .
Locality , near Halifax and Huddersfield .
Horizon , Lower Coal-measures .
2 .
Spencerites majusculus , sp. nov.\#151 ; Whole cone about 15 mm. in diameter , axis about 9 mm. in diameter .
Sporophylls about 3 mm. long ; lamina obscurely peltate , as seen in radial section , but greatly elongated tangentially , attaining a breadth of 3 mm. Sporangia approximately spherical .
Spores having the form of quadrants of a sphere , with three narrow wings .
Maximum diameter of spore , without wings , about 0T1 mm. ; with wings , about 0'15 mm. Wood of axis with about 30 , somewhat prominent , angles ; without pith .
Outer cortex uniformly sclerotic .
Locality , near Halifax .
Horizon , Lower Coal-measures .

