On the Skull in the Mammalia .
1885 .
] weak to be perceived on the tongue causes prolonged cardiac standstill .
The passage of a constant current through the inter jugular part appears to cause an acceleration in the rhythm .
B. Effects of Vagus Stimulation on the Ostial Parts of the Sinus .
When either the right or left vagus nerve is stimulated the rhythmic .power of both the right and left ostial parts is completely suspended for a time .
The excitability to direct stimulation also is temporarily annulled ; no contraction is caused by the application of even a powerful direct excitation .
As a secondary effect of vagus stimulation there often occurs a marked heightening in the rhythmic power of the ostial parts , and a consequent acceleration of the rate of the heart 's action .
Probably thei*e is also in some instances an increase in the excitability of the ostial parts .
t Weak or strong interrupted currents applied to the ostial part cause an immediate arrest of the heart 's action , with the usual features of the inhibited state .
Such a result is obviated by the administration of curare .
III .
" On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Mammalia .
Part .
III .
Insectivora .
" By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received January 15 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) Although this paper is confessedly only a fraction of what is necessary to be done in this polymorphic order , it shows at least how difficult a group it is to handle .
For the Insectivora are set in the midst of the other Mammalia\#151 ; low and high .
They might be called the Biological stepping-stones from the Metatheria to the Eutheria .
One thing can be done , even now , with our present fragmentary knowledge of the structure and development of the Insectivorous types .\#151 ; we can assure ourselves that these types are immediately above the Marsupials , that they have the Bats ( Chiroptera ) obliquely above them , that their nearest relations must be sought for amongst extinct Eocene forms , and that , lowly as they are , and arrested and often dwarfed to the uttermost ( so that nature could not safely go further in that direction ) , they are rich in prophetic characters that have come to perfection in larger and nobler types .
I think it will not be denied that in the ascent of the types the Chiroptera are above the Insectivora , and , as it were , a sort of special TOL .
XXXVIII .
K Mi* .
W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 29 , " new leader ' ' from that stock , and that the Insectivora are more or less transformed modifications of the Marsupial type .
I suspect that the existing Insectivora just yield the zoologist one of his groups of types classed together because he knows not what else to do with them ; they are not a proper , clear , special branch or " leader " of the Mammalian life-tree .
They form one group under one designation , just as the poor of this metropolis form a group ; their special mark is simply lowliness ; they differ inter se almost as much as the whole remainder above them differ .
The higher forms , however , because of their elevation , can afford to be subdivided again into order after order .
If we could descend and see the transforming and newly transformed Placentalia of the Eocene epoch , then the morphologist and the zoologist would find common ground ; the taxonomy of the latter , however , would be as useless as the titles and distinctions of modern society to some undeveloped race of savage men .
The evidently extreme specialization of the existing Monotremes or Prototheria , and their manifest close relationship to the Edentata\#151 ; a strange lowly group of Eutherians , almost extinct in the old world , and not potent in genera and species in the new\#151 ; makes it necessary for me in the present stage of my research to leave them until I have mastered both them and the great Marsupial sub-class .
Of the latter , however , I can speak already , and as no interpretation of the meaning of the parts seen in a Eutherian skull can be made until they are read in the light of the structure of the quasi-reptilian skull of the Marsupial , I shall in this paper compare the two types together , using the lower and older , as a measure of the higher and newer , types of skull .
Anatomists are familiar with the character of the skull in adult Marsupials ; to these may be added others that have turned up to me in the study of their development .
When these are seen in the light of the types outside and below the Mammalia , then that which is typical in a high Mammal , as such , can be formulated , and the specialization of this great branch of the Vertebrate stock be understood .
I will , therefore , here give a list of the more important and striking cranial characters of the Marsupials , promising to bring forward , as early as possible , figures and descriptions of the skull in various stages and in many kinds .
But before making this comparison of the characters of the skull in the Marsupials with what is seen in the Insectivora , I will state that in the latter\#151 ; a mere order\#151 ; the diversity is fourfold that to be found in the Marsupials ( which are worthy to be put not as a mere order , but as a sub-class ) , for in them , whether they be eastern or western kinds , the uniformity on the whole is very remarkable , as remarkable as the diversity seen in the Insectivora .
The problem put to the morphologist , however , is to explain why the characters that distinguish a Marsupial from a high or Eutherian Mammal are for the most part those which the former 1885.1 Ow the Skull.in the Mammalia .
131 possess in common with the Sauropsida .
The residuum of proper unique Metatherian characters neither to be found in the higher Mammals , on the one hand , or in the Sauropsida on the other , is but small .
Another , and a crucial , difficulty is this\#151 ; the Sauropsida , which of all others help us most in the interpretation of the Marsupial skull , are not those to be found in low Reptilian , but in the highest Avian , types .
Of all birds ( the Passerines are the noblest , and are most marvellously specialized for their own peculiar mode of life , having many accomplishments andi high intelligence .
Yet it is from this order of birds that I have had !
most help in this matter , finding in their skulls special structures which closely correspond to what is most remarkable in that of the Marsupials .
There are several characters in the superficial or investing elements of the skull of Marsupials that are unlike what we find1 in the higher forms of Placental Mammalia , but which linger in the* lower . ? .
The frontals are very small in proportion to the parietals , andi the squamosals are , relatively , especially in the young , inordinately large\#151 ; as large as the frontals . ? .
The lacrymals are not only large , and have generally a facial plate , but they have , as a rule , two canals .
, c. The palatine plates of the maxillaries and palatine bones form an extremely hollow or dome-like structure , and by the time the* creature is full-grown much of their substance has been absorbed , so as to leave larger or smaller fenestrae : thus there is an attempt to return to the schizognathous condition of these parts seen in many Sauropsida .
d. The palatines are often formed of several pieces , very irregular patches of bone , and these irregular centres are largely absorbed , or united with the main parts in the adult skull .
e. The pterygoids are very small , and have their basicranial parts limited on account of the constant separate development of a large ineso-pterygoid .
/ .
The main vomer is often relatively small ; there is nearly always a pair of antero-lateral vomers protecting the cartilaginous capsules of Jacobson 's organs , and large postero-lateral and often postero-medial vomers .
These are very irregular and unsymmetrical , in the young Guscus , especially , in which I find ten vomerine bones .
g. The floor of the tympanic cavity ossifies before the cartilage is ripe , but in two sub-equal centres\#151 ; the annulus and " os-bullae inside the latter a large folded cartilage protects the Eustachian tube , and outside the former the meatus externus is protected by a more or less segmented tube of ' cartilage , which ends outside in the continuous concha auris .
h. The jugal or malar bone is large , and reaches back so as to lie over the cartilage of the glenoid cavity , thus helping to form the joint .
132 Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 29 , i. The angular part of the lower jaw is greatly incurved forming a remarkable hollow inside .
In the Endo-cranium there are some very curious structures that differ from what we find in the high forms of Mammalia , but which mostly agree with what is seen in the Sauropsida .
a. The nostrils are sub-terminal , and give off large tongue-shaped ' cartilages to protect Jacobson 's organs .
b. The whole nasal labyrinth is small , especially in the young , not more than half as large as in an average placental Mammal , and the cribriform plate is less depressed in front , very limited in size , and is square in form .
c. The orbitosphenoids do not form the presphenoid by meeting together below , but the presphenoid is as independent as the basi-sphenoid .
d. There is no special optic foramen in the orbitosphenoid , but the optic nerve passes through the common sphenoidal fissure with the orbital nerves and the first branch of the fifth ; the second branch , like the third , has its own foramen rotundum , as in-Man , and many other Eutheria .
e. The next character is one of the most important ; it is this , namely , that the orbitosphenoids are flush with the alisphenoids .
The latter , which are extremely large , ossify a tract of the general cartilaginous side-wall of the embryonic skull\#151 ; the highly developed chondro-cranium\#151 ; and not a free flap of cartilage , merely continuous with the basal bar , as in the Eutheria .
For in these latter the more bulky brain pushes out the lower part of the side-wall of the skull , leaving for some time a band of cartilage , which runs free from the alisphenoid , passing from the orbitosphenoid up to the super-occipital .
In front , the orbitosphenoid is confluent with the ethmoid , so that but for the breach in the wall made by the alisphenoid , there would be , even in placental Mammals , a chondro-cranium very similar to that of the Skate .
This breach does not take place anywhere among the vertebrate types until we get above the Marsupials .
The other character just mentioned , namely , the absence of a special optic foramen , is of similar import ; there is no such a foramen in the " Amniota " until we are among the placental Mammalia .
f. The alisphenoid helps to form the drum cavity by developing behind its small external pterygoid process , a shell-like growth , similar to the " anterior tympanic recess " of Carinate birds .
Thus , as the squamosal is a labyrinth of air cavities opening into the upper part of the ' drum cavity , these and the tympanic recess in the alisphenoid greatly enlarge the space for air .
Indeed , not only those parts , but the mastoid region of the auditory capsule , and the sides and top of the occipital arch , all become pneumatic , as in Crocodiles and Birds .
On the Skull in the Mammalia .
1885 .
] a. The internal carotids pierce the basisphenoid subinesially , that part of the basis cranii is not perforated in the middle , and the clinoid processes and cavity for the pituitary body are but little developed .
h. The limited , sub-erect , and flattish cribriform plates , and the email frontals , are the necessary correlates of a small brain cavity and brain .
The occipital plane corresponds with those parts , being suberect ; it forms but little more than a right angle with the general basi-cranial axis .
i. In the Marsupials as well as in the Monotremes we see the ossi- cula auditus , in making , so to speak .
In all the sub-divisions of the class , Monotremes or Prototheria , Marsupials or Metatheria , and Placentals or Eutheria , the lower jaw is broken up , the longer part becoming the persistent mandible , the shorter hind part the , whilst the starved and modified quadrate becomes the incus .
For a long while in the growing Marsupial the malleus is manifestly a compound bone ; it is an " articulare , " with an internal and posterior angular process , as in the Fowl .
On it the " angulare " can be seen , and sometimes , as in the half-grown Koala ( ) , a supra- angulare too .
The working mandible , attached to a new pier on the jugal and squamosal , is composed of a sort of morphological mixture of a large inferior labal cartilage , a dentary bone , with coronoid and Bplenial regions , and the greater part of Meckel 's cartilage\#151 ; the true primary ramus .
j. The topmost segment of the next arch ( pharyngo-hyal ) is often a " columella , " and not a stapes .
In the early young and embryo of the Marsupials it is V"s^aPe(^ \gt ; its greater front fork enlarging above to form the inverted base of the columella or stapes , and then dwindling into a rod ; the lesser hind fork becoming , after a time , detached and then ossified , to form the interhyal .
In fishes the uppermost element of a branchial arch ( the hyoid is a branchial arch ) often forks ; in the Sturgeon these become two separate pieces , as in this particular case of the embryo Marsupial .
There is not much to remark upon in the rest of the hyoid arch , the functional suspensory part .
For comparison with the Insectivora the existing Marsupials do not yield me all the archaic characters I want .
For the existing low Eutheria are of course the descendants of Metatheria that were much more generalised and archaic than any now existing ; these latter during the Tertiary Period must have undergone , on their own low platform , many adaptive changes that would make them look very strange beside the Marsupials of the Secondary epoch , if these latter could be restored for comparison with them .
The best type of Insectivore for general comparison is the Hedgehog ( [ Erinaceuseuropceus ) , as it shows the least suppression of parts , and the best development of that which is diagnostic , so to speak , of the Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 29 , order .
In it the great investing bones of the skull are similar to those of the Marsupial , but the nasal and squamosals are smaller , and the frontals are larger .
In the hard palate there is a considerable relapse , as in Marsupials ; certain tracts of bone being absorbed , but it has no mesopterygoids , and only five vomers , yet the anterolateral pair are well developed .
Moreover the tympanic region has only one annulus , the outer bone ; there is no separate os-bullse .
Instead of the latter there is a crescentic shell of bone , which grows from the basisphenoid , greatly increasing the size of the tympanic cavity .
In the endo-skeleton in front of the tympanic cavity there is a remarkable ridge-of bone growing outwards from the alisphenoid .
That ridge is the remnant of the alisphenoidal tympanic wing of the Marsupial , and the shell of bone growing from the basisphenoid is the same morphological element as the separate os-bullse , but it has lost its independence .
The higher Mammalian type is fully reached in the thorough freedom of the alisphenoid from the general cranial wall .
This cha--racter , indeed , is intensified into the special diagnostic of an Insecti-vore , for it lies almost wholly outside the orbitosphenoid .
Here the sphenoidal fissure , which in this case lets out the second branch of the fifth , but not the optic nerve\#151 ; that nerve having its own foramen in the orbito-sphenoid\#151 ; is not a mere gap , but a , or a sort of sphenoidal corridor , right and left .
In these things the Hedgehog is higher than the Marsupial , but in some others it is lower , or more archaic .
These latter characters , which suggest an uprise from a more general type than the existing Metatheria , are\#151 ; 1st .
The development of solid hyaline cartilage in the pterygoid region , a remnant of the pterygo-quadrate of the Ichthyopsida .
2ndly .
The presence of a persistent pituitary hole , which is connected with a curiously specialized structure , only seen in typical Insectivores , namely , a hollowing Out of the basis cranii beneath the pituitary region .
3rdly .
A third archaic character , not seen in the existing Marsupials , is the huge relative size , long persistence , and separate distal ossification of Meckel 's cartilage , so that in the embryo Hedgehog , and even in the nestling , the primary lower jaw is as large as in fishes generally , scarcely excepting the Selachians .
The ossicula auditus are typically Eutherian ; we have lost the imperforate stapes or columella , the interhyal is very small or absent , and the malleus and incus are much like what we find in the higher Mammals , generally .
The pneumaticity of the skull is much reduced : the olfactory region is almost double the relative size of that of a Marsupial .
In the head of another family of the Insectivores , namely , the Mole ( Talpaeuropcea ) there is much that is in accord with what is found in its distant relation the Hedgehog , but in it there are evident signs of degradation and of relapse into what is Marsupial in 1385 .
] On the Skull in the Mammalia .
135 character .
The nasal labyrinth is relatively immense , and the skull walls below , laterally , and behind , are as exquisitely pneumatic as in the Flying Marsupial ( Petaurus ) , the Bird , or the Crocodile .
The swollen basis cranii , all air galleries within , is so excavated that the hinder sphenoid , both base and wings , largely helps the flat single tympanic to form the drum cavity .
The pituitary hole does not exist , but there is a considerable pterygoid cartilage .
The ossicula in adult are normal , but a curious special character is seen in the ossification , in the young , three parts grown , of the sheath of the stapedial artery , which for a time holds the stapes in its place .
It is , however , absorbed afterwards , but remains in the related genus Myogale .
In nearly half-grown young Moles the malleus is quite like that of the Marsupials ; it is an evident " articulare , " with copious wild growths of bone , sub-distinct , which answer to the " angulare " and " supra-angulare " of a Reptile or Bird .
This malleus in its articular part has two endosteal and one ectosteal bony centre .
Meckel 's cartilage , long continuous with the Malleus , is nearly as massive as in the Hedgehog , and has a more distinct separate ossification in its sub-distal part , a long , independent , but temporary hypohranchial bone : The Mole shows a most remarkable development of the endo-Cranium , which , twenty years ago , suggested to me that its skull retained unmistakable Monotrematous characters .
In large young of the Echidna and Ornithorhynchus the solidity of the chondrocranium is immense , like that of a Vhimceroid Selachian , and the investing bones are thin and splintery .
I have not made out the mode of ossification of the inner skull in those types , but in , if not in the letter , the Mole agrees with them , that is , in the great development and independence of the inner skull .
The opisthotic bone ossifies the normal petro-mastoid region , whilst the prootic bony centre begins in its right place on the front edge of the cartilaginous capsule , and then runs away from it into the wall of the skull .
Thus there is a large bony tract in the temporal region between the squamosal and the large interparietal , which is not one of the ordinary ectocranial bones , but an endo-cranial bony tract overshadowing and yet imitating the true temporal bone or squamosal .
This bone is represented by three separate centres in osseous fishes , namely , the prootic , pterotic , and sphenotic , whilst their true auditory region is partly ossified by the epiotic and opisthotic ; the epiotic is only sub-distinct in the Mole .
If I am asked why I dive so far down for my illustrations , instead of being satisfied with what Reptiles and Birds would show me , my answer is that these are often of no use for comparison , as they are as thoroughly specialized for their own mode of life as the Mammalia , generally , and are as completely , and often more completely , transformed from the original archaic type or types. .
Thus the Mole , Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 29 , : like most of the Edentata lately described by me , suggests as the root stock of the Eutheria , generally , not Marsupials ( Metatheria ) , as \gt ; we know them , but Prototherian forms in which , in ages long past , ' i the existing Monotremes and Marsupials had a common origin .
| The Shrew ( Sorex vulgaris ) represents another family of the Insec- ' : tivores , the Soricidse .
It combines the characters of the Mole and ; Hedgehog with peculiarities of its own that are manifestly due to i dwarfing ; many things are suppressed , as if there was not room in so small a skull for their development .
The pituitary hole reappears , | and the pterygoid cartilage , but the tympanic wings of the alisphenoid and of the basi-sphenoid are gone .
The malleus does not show itself so unmistakably Marsupial , and Meckel 's cartilage is slenderer .
The sheathing alisphenoids are well seen , the squamosal is extremely small , low down , and devoid of a jugal process ; the jugal bone is suppressed .
The prootic wing is present , as in the Mole .
So much for the British representatives of these families of the Insectivora\#151 ; the Erinaceidse , Talpidse , and Soricidae .
The Mascarene Insectivora are so evidently related to each other , as to suggest , at ; once , a common origin ; these are the Centetidae , the largest of which is the Tenrec ( Centetes ecaudatus ' ) ; the other genera treated of in this paper are Ericulus , Semi centetes , and Microgale .
These are almost typical Insectivora , but they agree with the Shrews in having the jugal bone suppressed ; they are also more Marsupial than our native kinds .
In these types the normal characters of the skull of an Insectivore are combined with a remarkable Marsupial tympanic wing to the alisphenoid , but the os-bullse is not free , it is merely an outgrowth of bone from the basisphenoid .
The pituitary hole is present and in the large species the curious basicranial excavation ; the optic foramina also and the sphenoidal side passages are remarkably developed .
As in the genus among the Marsupials , and Sorex and Talpa among the British Insectivora , the antero-lateral vomers are evidently suppressed , or have a very temporary independent existence ; the postero-lateral vomers are rather small , as in the Hedgehog .
In the embryo the main vomer is relatively as large as in the embryo Whale , and is curiously cellular or spongy .
In nestlings this one primary azygous centre has broken up into three ; one , the largest , above , and two lesser below , sheathing , it as it sheathes , the base of the nasal septum .
How this multiplication of the vomers , proper , is thoroughly Marsupial .
It is unique , as far as I know , in the mode of its subdivision into secondary bony centres .
In the African ( Continental ) family the Elephant or Jumping Shrews ( Macroscelidee ) , as illustrated by the largest forms Petrodromus and Rhynchocyon , we have a curious mixture of Marsupial or Metatherian and Eutherian characters , so that they are aberrant as Insectivores ; the Marsupial characters are most remarkable:\#151 ; On the Skull in the Mammalia .
1885 .
] These are ( 1 ) the absence of an optic foramen in the embryo ; ( 2 ) the alisphenoids scarcely overlapping the orbitosphenoids ; ( 3 ) the tympanic wings of the alisphenoids are well marked , hollow shells in the embryo ; ( 4 ) large antero-lateral vomers , and postero-lateral vomers , as large as in average Marsupials , and , as in many of them , meeting and uniting at the mid-line ; ( 5 ) a large distinct " os-bullse , " which makes a tympanic cavity as large as , and much like that of , Petaurus or Phascolarctos .
On the high Eutherian side we have , in the embryo , frontals as large as the parietals , and strangest of all Mammalian specialization , a long proboscis , composed of thirty double rings of cartilage , a structure quite similar to the proboscis of an Elephant .
The mesopterygoids are suppressed , but the pituitary hole is present .
I now come to a type for which no place can be found in our systems of Zoology , but for which the late Professor Peters , in despair , lodged with the Insectivora ; I refer to the Flying Cat ( - pithecus ' ) .
This genus forms a Family by itself , and yet has only two species ; it should form an Order , as the Hyrax does .
These two species of Flying Mammals are full of remnants of what is old , and rudiments of the new .
I put them between the most archaic ( Marsupials ) and some of the most curiously modified Entheria , the Frugivorous Bats , and survey them from these two widely separate standpoints ; but they possess that which neither Phalanger nor Bat will account for or explain .
With a flat , outspread , foliaceous skull , as completely ankylosed as that of any bird , and as thoroughly pneumatic in its post-orbital region , we have one of the largest and most perfect hard palates ; with the upper incisors partly suppressed , the lower incisors well developed and utterly unique , and the premolars and molars strong for grinding .
The cheek bones and the squamosals are large and thoroughly Marsupial , so are the small external pterygoid processes and internal pterygoid bones , and the very large mesopterygoids .
I find no antero-lateral vomers , but Jacobson 's organs and their protecting cartilages are twice as long as in any types yet examined , and the postero-lateral vomers are almost as well developed as in Marsupials , whilst the main vomer is very large .
The sphenoid bones are typically Eutherian , but the basisphenoid has beneath it , as in Lizards , a small " parasphenoid ; " this I find only in G. phillip-pensis , and as yet in no other Mammal .
As in the Marsupials , the jugal or malar helps to form the glenoid cavity , and the squamosal is as large as in Cuscus , the lowest of the Eastern Marsupials .
The single flat tympanic bone , with its ossified and compressed meatus , is very remarkable ; but this part of the skull corresponds neither with the Marsupials nor the Insectivores , and this is true also of several other of its characters .
Presents .
[ De(j .
11 , Those things in which it agrees with the Marsupials are not the same as in the Hedgehog ; it differs from both Insectivores and Marsupials in its own peculiar way , and in some things is more archaic than either .
This type appears to me to be a waif from a large group of forms that were beginning to be transformed out of the Metatheria into the Flying Eutheria ( Chiroptera ) , certain of which , this living type among the rest , being arrested at the general level ( or platform ) of the Insectivora ; they are equal to , rather than members of , the order Insectivora .
The last type to be mentioned is the Tupaia , an Eastern form , rather high in position , yet combining characters for the first time seen in the Mammalia , namely , a perfect orbital ring , with old Metatherian structures , such as the large os-bullse , the small external and internal pterygoids , and a somewhat absorbed hard palate .
The last three kinds , Bhynchoc and , all show a curious mixture of that which looks upwards to the highest types , and of that which has been retained from the lower and more archaic forms of the Mammalian class .
Presents , December 11 , 1884 .
Transactions .
Alnwick:\#151 ; Berwickshire Naturalists ' Club .
Proceedings .
Vol. X. No. 2 .
8vo .
The Club .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Peabody Institute .
17th Report .
8vo .
Baltimore 1884 .
The Institute .
Birmingham:\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. IV .
Part 1 .
8vo .
Birmingham 1884 .
The Society .
Cambridge ( U.S. ) :\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College .
Memoirs .
Vol. IX .
No. 3 .
4to .
Cambridge 1884 .
The Museum .
Frankfurt a. Main:\#151 ; Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gresell-schaft .
Abhandlungen .
Band XIII .
Heft 4 .
4to .
Frankfurt a. M. 1884 .
The Society .
Groteborg :\#151 ; K. Vetenskaps och Vitterhets Samhalle .
Handlingar .
Haftet XIX .
8vo .
Gbteborg 1884 .
-The Association .
Haarlem:\#151 ; Musee Teyler .
Archives .
S4r .
2 .
Vol. II .
Party 1 .
Roy .
8vo .
Haarlem 1884 .
The Museum .
Jena :\#151 ; Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft .
Jenaische Zeitschrift .
Band XVII .
Hefte 3 , 4 .
Band XVIII .
Heft 1 .
8vo .
Jena 1884 .
Sitzungsberichte , 1883 .
8vo .
Jena 1884 .
The Society .

