XVII .
" On Holtenia , a Genus of Vitreous Sponges .
" By WYVILLE THOMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Science in Queen 's College , Belfast .
( Abstract .
) During the deep-sea dredging cruise of H.M.S. 'Lightning ' in the autumn of the year 1868 , the dredge brought up , on the 6th of September , froio a depth of 530 fathoms , in lat. 59ยง 36 ' N. , and long .
7ยง 20 ' W. , about 20 miles beyond the 100-fathom line of the Coast Survey of Scotland , fine , grey , oozy mud , with forty or fifty entire examples of several species of siliceous sponges .
The minimum temperature indicated by several registering thermometers was 47 ?
'3 F. , the surface temperature for the several localities being 52 ?
'5 F. The mud brought up consisted chiefly of minute amorphous particles of carbonate of lime , with a considerable proportion of living Globigerinca and other Foraminifera , and of the " coccoliths " and " coccospheres , " so characteristic of the chalk-mud of the warmer area of the Atlantic .
The sponges belonged to four genera ; one of these was the genus Hyalonema , previously represented by the singular glass-rope sponges of Japan and the coast of Portugal , and the other three genera were new to science .
One of these latter was the subject of the paper .
Associated with the sponges were representatives , usually of a small size , of the Mollusca , the Crustacea and Annelides , the Echinodermata , and the Ccelenterata , with numerous large and remarkable rhizopods .
Many of the higher invertebrates were brightly coloured and had eyes .
Four nearly perfect specimens of the sponge described in the memoir were procured .
IIOLTENIA , 1 .
g.t:H .
CARPIENTERI , n. sp. The body of the sponge is nearly globular or oval .
Normal , and * Comptes Rendus , vol. liv .
p. 1241 .
'1 The genus is named in compliment to M. Holten , Governor of the Faroe Islands , and the species is dedicated to Dr. W. B. Carpenter , V.P.R.S. , with whom the author was associated in the conduct of the expedition , 32 [ June 17 , apparently full-grown specimens are from 91 to 1 ] in length , and from 7 " to 9 " wide .
The outer wall consists of an open , somewhat irregular , but very elegant network , whose skeleton is made up of large separate siliceous spicules .
These spicules are formed on the hexradiate stellate type ; but usually only five rays are developed , the sixth ray being represented by a tubercle .
To form the framework of the external wall , the four secondary branches of the spicule spread on one plane , the surface of the sponge , while the fifth or azygous branch dips down into the sponge-substance .
This arrangement of the spicules gives the outer surface of the sponge a distinctly stellate appearance , the centres of the stars being the point of radiation of the secondary branches of the spicules .
These quinqueradiate spicules measure about 1 " 5tf from point to point of the crosslike secondary branches , and the length of the azygous arm is from 7.5"l to 1 " .
Smaller stars , formed by the radiation of smaller spicules of the same class , occupy the spaces between the rays of the larger stars .
The rays of each star bend irregularly , and meet the rays of the spicules forming the neighbouring stars .
The rays of the different spicules thus run along for some distance parallel to one another , and are held together by a layer of elastic sarcode , which invests all the spicules and all their branches .
Between the rays of the spicules , over the whole surface , the sarcode forms an ultimate and very delicate network , its meshes defining minute inhalent pores .
At the top of the sponge there is a large osculum , about 3 " in diameter , which terminates a cylindrical cavity , which passes down vertically into the substance of the sponge to a depth of 5 " 5"'t .
The walls of this oscular cavity are formed upon the same plan as the external wall of the sponge ; and the stars , which are even more conspicuous than those of the outer wall , are due to the same arrangement of spicules of the same form .
The ultimate sarcode network is absent between the rays of the stars of the oscular surface .
The sponge-substance , which is about 2 " in thickness between the oscular and the outer walls , is formed of a loose vacuolated arrangement of bands and rods of greyish consistent sarcode , containing minute disseminated granules and groups of granules of horny matter , and minute endoplasts .
Towards the outer wall of the sponge the sarcode trabeculse are arranged more symmetrically , and at length they resolve themselves into distinct columns , which abut against and support the centres of the stars , leaving wide , open , anastomosing channels between them .
The sarcode of the outer wall , and that of the wall of the oscular cavity , is loaded with minute spicules of two principal forms , quinqueradiate spicules with one ray prolonged and feathered , and minute amphidisci .
Over the lower third of the body of the sponge , fascicles of enormously long delicate siliceous spicules pass out from the sarcode columns of the sponge-body in which they originate , through the outer wall , to be diffused to a distance of not less than half a metre in the mud in which the sponge lives buried ; and round the osculum and over the upper third of the sponge , sheaves of shorter more rigid spicules project , forming a kind of fringe .
The author referred all the sponges which were found inhabiting the chalk-mud to the Order Porifera Vitrea , which he had defined in the 'Annals and Magazine of Natural History ' for February 1868 .
This order is mainly characterized by the great variety and complexity of form of the spicules , which may apparently , with scarcely an exception , be referred to the hexradiate stellate type , a form of spicule which does not appear to occur in any other order of sponges .
The genus Holtenia is nearly allied to Ilyalonema , and seems to resemble it in its mode of occurrence , Both genera live irmbedded in the soft upper layer of the chalkmud , in which they are supported , -Holtenia by a delicate maze of siliceous fibres , which spread round it in all directions , increasing its surface without materially increasing its weight , -Hyalonema by a more consistent coil of spicules , which penetrates the mud vertically and anchors itself in a firmer layer .
It appeared to the author and to Dr. Carpenter , who had had their attention specially directed to this point as bearing upon the continuity and identity of some portions of the present calcareous deposits of the Atlantic with the cretaceous formation , that the vitreous sponges are more nearly allied to the Vent7riculites of the chalk than to any recent order of Porifera .
They are inclined to ascribe the absence of silica in many ventriculites , and the absence of disseminated silica in the chalk generally , to some process , probably dialytic , subsequent to the deposit of the chalk , by which the silica has been removed and aggregated in amorphous masses , the chalk flints .
The Vitreous Sponges along with the living Rhizopods and other Protozoa which enter largely into the composition of the upper layer of the chalkmud , appear to be nourished by the absorption through the external surface of their bodies of the assimilable organic matter which exists in appreciable quantity in all sea-water , and which is derived from the life and death of marine animals and plants , and in large quantity , from the water of tropical rivers .
One principal function of this vast sheet of the lowest type of animal life , which probably extends over the whole of the warmer regions of the sea , may probably be to diminish the loss of organic matter by gradual decomposition , and to aid in maintaining in the ocean , the " balance of organic nature , "

