]\gt ; On in , , . . . . .
, . . . . . .
, . . . . .
, , .
, . . . .
1 , . . . . .
, .
, . . . .
, . . . . . .
, .
, . . . .
These iodide of in its ) each experiment , ) out of deposit ) iu .
of potassium , frcc of the formel , if fi pot , its ions c be nlitdo tinum 0 the xaminill .
iodi ubidiunl .
IV .
' ' On Practicnl ] ) Continuous y.l ] icated 1 of Civil .
in dinl ) 1 .
lt not of of feet , but it to the employment in { he tical ) ions 10 Henco the of ditions at the e I ) of rtia of all cross I to ou ] .
Mr. may bc .
) of which .
As is .
1 to uccc.ssity of Profs .
John Perry and W. E. Ayrtoll .
[ Dec. 11 , Heppel found it collvenient for his special case to make the summations twicc for the same span , workin forwards and backwards from every point of support , but in the following the summations are all effected in the same direction , only summation being necessary for each span .
3 .
Suppose to be one span of a continuous beam has loads and supporting forces beyond and .
To find the bending moment at a point , it is sufficient to know what is the bending moment at , and the shearing force at a very short distance inside .
If we suppose the bending moment to be ] ] posltive when it tends to make the beam convex upwards , and the force at a section positive when it tends to elevate the part of the beam to the of the section , then , the bending moment at a point , is cqual to where and are the bending moment and shear at , and where is the sum of all such expressions as\mdash ; an element of load at any place , between and , multiplied by oain , if is the moment at a section , the modulus of elasticity , the momenb of inertia of the section about its neutral line .
the vertical displacement of a point in the neutral axis of the beam from its position , the horizontal distance of this point from some fixed point in the neutral as , then for beams and girders used engineers\mdash ; ( 1 ) The only tion that we shall use is to oose all points of supporb in the same straight line .
But as is well known , if this case is solved , the unrestricted case may also be solved , and the case which is a .
in the supports .
Lct be the bending moments at the points of support and .
Let be the shearing force just inside O. lVhen we know the nature of loading\mdash ; . . . . . . . . .
we can find the moment at due to the load betwcen and Thus if be load per unit at any place , and if we ltcrs , we can find the sum\mdash ; .
( 2 ) .
879 .
] On JIost General Problems And also , if we know how altcrs , can find the following sums , each of which is denoted a symbol:\mdash ; ( 3 ) , and also ( 4 ) .
It is very easy writc out tho valucs of summations in certain simple cases , and the in most can ahvays be made with a very fair ) to ccuracy , nd with not much risk of mistakes made , by tho } ) methods described below .
The bending moment at any . . . . .
, but at we and and hence erefore ( C ) .
So that expression ( 5 ) ) ( 7 ) .
Substituting this integraling once , vanish , we that if Il downwards from if of beam at any point then ( ) .
$ Profs .
John W. .
Ayrton .
[ Dec. 11 , If is the inclination at the support , then . . . .
( 9 ) .
fntegrating ( 8 ) we sce that the deflection at any point is . . .
( 10 ) .
, as the supports are on the level , when that Rlld hence ( 11 ) .
ubstituting the value of we therefore ( 12 ) , and using this in equation ( 9 ) we find ( 13 ) , Now , let , be the values of the summatiollS made the next span , orres o with , with If is the bending moment at the support , then equation ( 12 ) becomes , putting of instead of instead of ( 14 ) . . . . . . .
we have in equations ( 13 ) and ( 14 ) distinct valucs of of inclination at .
Putting these values equal to one anothc ] ' If the mffi n of uifv of } ]lcutr:l line of to , that in millllS in ( 13 ) cquals , and hcnco lllust pnt ( 1 on the of cquation ( 15 ) .
anglc is not ) ] ) with ) ation of * in Continuous Beams .
and , wo find an equation comlectinglI , and ' and this is our fornl of ] ) General Theorem of the Moments .
* .
4 .
We ve in the theorcm of tLrcc momonts a relation the , at consecutive points of sup ; therefore of there suclt equations , ftnd unknown momcuts , because the momcllts the end arc cqnal to Hellec the moments all the supports arc fonll solution simultaneous We may llow snppose the the supports at two ends of a span are found , then the shc call lculated by cquation ( C ) , ) ncnt point 1 ) by ( 7 ) , the deilcction at ) by tion ( 10 ) .
Points of :and minimnm moment obtained by to ltouo]t , the icnt of with cspcct to At a oint of we that tho moment must bc equftl We cftll pve of a continuous ) kJlOW the of } ation of the irder f the points of , we for -ing ] the tions . . . . . .
so that , call find lllomc]t il , is that we granl of .
Also at . . . . . .
Soc vol. , 1 ) .
178 ) , till it ill be ) it is I the tions c be } with , our of ] to be once for ny Profs .
John Perry and W. E. Ayrton .
[ Dec. and the shear at any point is equal to minus the load between and , therefore we can draw the diagram of shearing force .
Also the deflection at any equals As a familiar example , we may consider a beam , of which the ends are fixed horizontally and at the same level , here and We can prove that , when we know the angle of the beam at one end of a span , and the bending moment at the other end , we have sufficient data for calculation , having the above summations , \amp ; c. This applies to the familiar case of a beam fixed tally at one end and merely supported at the other end , supports being level , as before .
The following well-known examples illustrate the use of the formulae :\mdash ; In all cases when the cross-section of the beam remains constant , the summations , and may easily shown to have the follow- ing values : \mdash ; so that the theorem of three moments becomes\mdash ; In all cases where the load is spread uniformly over the span , per uuit length , it is easy to show that\mdash ; the scction being con ' stant on the span .
When the spans arc equal in length , and all cross-sections the 1879 .
] On JIost General obtems in tinuous Beams .
499 same , and the loading over both spans is uniform and equal to per unit length , then the theorcm becomes\mdash ; When in the two consecutive spans , and , there is the same common cross-section , and when there is a uniform load , ?
, per unit length over the first span , and .
over the cond , get the theorem in M. Clapeyron 's form \mdash ; Graphic of the lations of } 5 .
It has hitherto becll nsllal for to assume that load and section are uniform ptll , because , as seen , the calculations in this cRse aro thosc necessa1y when attempting the general solution are complicftt ; in fact , an examination of .
Heppel 's tion of a tively simple case is sufficient to deter sueh tions .
But by the graphic method the solution of most case only a very , and be completed in a few ] lours , or in a much ] time if a 's integrating , or CVen ( bc We employ a link thod for the of , and it may be expedient to draw the cted b by Mohr 's metbod .
To employ , howe , a link ) otlJod thought the of the ation would lead to of it might be from a ) of and as in mally othel .
problems , for tlCC , of of vity and moments of inertia , so in this we thnt of littlc metic , and the actual me of lin and more accurate inteorationso Our students in made { hc lmmations for spans of S00 and 200 feet respocve.ly .
hcir ( were exhibited at the meeting , and one of them is a duced bCftl .
It is advisable to use some } of the lines ; for example , a of distance AB , represents the span of 20 to stands feet .
The ordinate of the ) ] , \amp ; c. , of at evcry point of the in all , except thero is a sudden of } ) beam over a picr ( the of S 3 ) , any unit of be ) for 6 .
To fmd the for .
) is Profs .
John Perry and Ayrton .
[ Dec. 11 , 179 .
] On Most General oblems in Beams .
span , and the ordinate of the LLL ' , at any point to a scale the intcnsity of the loftd ; that , the mount of load foot of the beam at ) ALLLT ) into any convenient number spaccs by ssumc t the on , for instance , is not a ibutod 1 ) singc one , actin .
rough the celltre of gl'avity of the EL'L ' , and numerically equal to the total load 011 , and similarly the other parts , so now ] the ] : ) point , as in ) usual , ) ) pal.allcl to Iink- I lrft I Profs .
John Perry and W. E. Ayrton .
[ Dec. 11 , it quite easy to prove that any ordinate , as for instance , represents the value of for the point , and is In fig. 6 the for has been altered in shape by the student , but this extra labour was not necessary .
7 .
Any ordinate to the curve , fig. 2 , represents the value at that place of where is the modulus of elasticity of the sub ' stance of which the beam is composed , and is the moment of inertia of the section about its neutral line , any unit of measurement being employed .
The value of at any point is shown by the ordinate to the curve AP'B ' , and equals the curve obtained by raising at a number of points , such as , the ordinate , measured to any convenient scale , and represeDting the area AEE'P .
It is evident that is the total area of the figure AP'B'B , the scale of measurement being computed in the manner described below .
8 .
To f.\mdash ; A , fig. , shows the value of at every EI point .
Take any convenient distance , and raise the perpendicular ' ; make equal to equal to the ordi.nate at and equal to the ordinate at .
Join with the points , 1 , 2 , 3 , \amp ; c. , and produce if necessary .
Now it is quite evident that any ordinate of the represents a known scale ; thus , for example , represents divided by at the point P. ( This diagram might , of course , have been easily obtained numerically .
) Now at any point the ordinate represent to any suitable scale the area , and evident that any ordinate of the curve through all such points as , say , is to a known scale .
It is also evident that / is the total area of the figure AP'B'B .
9 .
To find .\mdash ; At any point we now know ( see fig. 1 ) the value of ; we also know the value of ; we can , therefore , compute the *For we know that the clinate 1 represents the bending moment at ] if the beam is nlerely supported at the ends .
Also represents bending momenb about due to the proper supporting force , and therefore , the difference , is the bending moment at due to the loitding merely veen and Gcnerally as to scale :\mdash ; When at the point , fig. 4 , we raise a which reprcsents , according to amy scale , by its length the area if the ordinate was to a scale that one ccntimetre l.epresents units , and if is the span to such a scale one l.epresents feet , if the area AP'P is netres , and if it is esente by a line whose length is centimetrcs , it is evident that the dinates of our new havo a scale snch that one ccntimetre 1879 .
] On Most General in Continuous Beams .
value of by { surement of lines and numerical work ; and erect the perpendicular , reprosenting to any suitable scale .
Now makc reprcsent to suitable scale the PAP ' , then the curve all such points as has its ordimates the valucs of .
It is also evidcnt that is the total of the figure 10 .
As example the , worked out by Messrs. ] ] Saiki , of our studcnts:\mdash ; a lattice- irdcl.-bridgc with main irders , the girders .
of a constant ; to CRl.ryft double of to consist of bhrec spans , , nnd 200 fect Consulting , they tssulnc the total of permanent , \amp ; c. , to cqual ton .
foot of the llliddlc span , and ton per foot spnns : the of to be ton foot the middlc cnd ) respcctivcly , and the per foot .
First fl at tho .
the same cross-section , to } ) equation , S 4 , for consccutive spans:\mdash ; 1 .
As We find ) fact , Af At any point in At any point in the The curve to show this of bonding moments ] ) , the otl1cr exactly similar .
and sll))ort , .
of } .
2 .
The Ro .
find ) ton Profs .
John Perry and W. E. Ayrton .
[ Dec. 11 , At any point in the first span At any point in the second span and the for half the bridge is OBB'B\ldquo ; B'/ / , :3 .
The olling Load covering We find that ton feet .
At any point of the first span At any point of the second span and the diagram for half the bridge is OCC'C ' ' 4 .
The Rolbing Load covering the ends Spans We find that ton feet , At any point in the first span At any point in the second span the diagram for half the bridge is shown in 5 .
is tFJe d for half the bridge when only the first span is covered with the rolling load .
6 .
is diagram for half the bridge only the first two spans are covered with the load .
As the depth is supposed to be constant , the moment of inertia of each section is now supposed to be ncarly to the greatest bending moment which is cver found at that section during any of the above distributions of load , and tho ordinates of the \amp ; c. , show the values which have assumed for the moment of incrtia of each section , these values either 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , or 7 .
If the girders had not been of constant depth , so the moment of have been changed by altering the of the irder , as well as the areas of the , we should proceeded in a htly different way to gct of .
As it was , students 1879 .
] On Most General Problems in found it advisable to use six thickncsses of plates in the booms the middle of the centre span , and they therefore mado there equaI to It is to ellter fully into the details of the complcte drawings exhibited .
On each curve was writtcn the scale to which it was drawn .
Employing the methods previously described , a few hours will be sufficicnt the necessary calculations .
The results obtained for distribution of were as follows:\mdash ; In Ist and 3rd span .
With rolling load Withont rolling load ton feet , ton fact , 1 llliddle spnn . .
lond Without rollin .
fcet , ) ton fact , .
Just in the bnnlc w , ucccssnry Rllmmatio1ls may mado for the most llloment varyin way tever 4 to in a ) Il

