Rain Red bon BLEGA .60 D Fig. 1 .
A .50 Halo .
Pale Halo Fig. 5 .
Red .30 DbbbC~ Eastern Western Parhelion Sun Parhelion VIII .
An Account of a Rainbow seen on the Ground .
Communicated in a Letter from the Reverend Benj .
Langwith , D. D. Rector of Petworth , to Dr. Jurin , Secr. R. S. Petworth , Dec. 17 .
1721 .
ON the 7th of September last , about Nine in the Morning , I was riding with some Friends over Port-Mead near Oxford .
The Morning had been Misty , and the Grass was very wet with the Dew .
We had not been long out , before the Air cleared up , and the Sun began to shine very bright .
We soon after had the Satisfaction of seeing a Rainbow upon the Ground , whose Colours were very near as lively as those of the common Iris : This was extended upon the Ground for some Hundreds of Yards , and the Colours were so strong , that it might have been seen much farther , had it not been terminated by the Bank , and Hedge of the Field .
It is hardly worth while to observe , that it continually changed its Place as we moved along , since this is no more than happens in other Rainbows .
The more remarkable Particulars were these : Ist .
That the Figure of it was not round , but oblong ; being as I conceive , a Portion of an Hyperbola .
2 .
That the Convex Part of it was turned towards the Eye , and the Vertex was at a small Distance before us .
3 .
That 3 .
That the Colours took up less Space , and were much more lively in those Parts of the Iris that were near us , than in those at a Distance .
These Phenomenon may easily be accounted for , by comparing this Iris DC E , Fig. 2 .
with the common Iris kiEe formed by Drops falling in the Air at a small Distance from the Eye of the Spectator , H , and touching the Ground with the lower Part of its Arch in E , the vertical Point of the Iris DC E. Produce the Cone HkiE e : Its Intersection with the Plane of the Horizon will give the Figure of the Iris DC E. Hence it follows , 1st .
That as the Angle eHG happens to be greater , equal to , or less than 90 deg. the Figure will be an Hyperbola , Parabola , or Ellipsis .
2 .
That as the Sun was about 30 deg. high , when we viewed the Phenomenon , the Iris was an Hyperbola .
3 .
That the Arches of the same Iris , consisting of Colours of different Refrangibility , may also in some Cases be different Sections of the Cone .
4 .
That since the Angle eHF is always given ; from the Height of the Point of View H G , and the Sun 's Altitude SL A , the Dimensions of these Iris 's are easily determined .
I am , &amp;c. Ben .
Langwith .

