]\gt ; The Diffusion of Electrons through a Slit .
By J. H. MACKIE .
( Communicated by Prof. J. S. Townsend , F.R.S. Received January 27 , \mdash ; Read March 12 , 1914 .
) In paper on " " The Motion of Electrons in Gases by Prof. Townsend and Mr. Tizard* it was shown how , by measuring the lateral diffusion of a stream of electrons in an electric field , it is possible to find , the factor by which the energy of agitation of the electrons exceeds that of the surrounding molecules .
The ions come at .
uniform rate through a sht of width in a large metal plate , and traverse a distance in the direction of an electric force .
The plane of the plate A may be taken as that of , the origin of co-ordinates being the centre of the slit which latter is taken parallel to the axis of .
The ions are received on three insulated electrodes , , which were portions of a disc of diameter 7 cm .
, being a narrow strip 5 mm. wide , cut from the centre of the disc.and insulated by narrow air gaps from the two electrodes , , on each side of it .
The field between A and the electrodes was maintained constant by a series of rings of diameter 7 cm .
, kept at uniformly decreasing potentials .
In this case the differential equation giving the distribution of electrons in the electric field is I is defined to be , this equation becomes If are the charges received by the electrodes , it is shown that the values of can be found by determining the ratio , i.e. the value of corresponding to any can be found .
Experiments had previously been performed in which a circular stream of ions was collected on concentric circular electrodes , and from the results it appeared that the term was small compared with the others .
By neglecting this term , Prof. Townsend obtained a solution of the differential equation in a simple form and plotted a curve with co-ordinates and It is desirable to know exactly what degree of accuracy is obtained by the simple method , and calculations of the values of were made from the series which represents the solutions when the term is retained . .
Proc , vol. 88 1913 ) .
70 Mr. J. H. Mackie .
which wxperiments would bomplicatedbut,1dth oield warge , very fravel outside tomplete solution corresponding tylindrical boundary rectangular , the width estimated parallel teing 6imilarreasons tlectrodes mssumed tortions orectangular puite allowable tssume toundary t of width 6 cm .
The number of ions in a width will be or The problem , therefore , is to determine the charges acquired by the electrodes when the distribution satisfies the differe1ltial equation and the boundary conditions\mdash ; ( i ) at the upper plate , where , , when and , when and when ; ( ii ) , when for all values of being width of the boundary , or 6 cm .
, , , , , slit , or cm .
A solution of the differential equation is where , if be written for 41 To satisfy the condition ( ii ) , Using the results we find the coefficients of the Fourier expansion to be therefore The ffusion of Electrons through Slit .
71 The rat6 at which a is acquired by a strip of an electrode will be ( say ) , where is the velocity in the direction of of an electron moving under an electric force is given therefole by where is the coefficient of diffusion .
Therefore \amp ; is tional to , or wheoe is evaluated at the electrode , In the case of real electrodes , the presence of the metal would cause a slight change in the distribution at neighbouring points , but would be the charge received per unit time by a strip of a real electrode placed at a very small distance below the point at which is evaluated .
From the expression already found for we have If 2 is the width of electrode therefore where and cm .
cm .
cm .
cm .
The following table gives the values of corresponding to different values of ; the ratio of the charges is given in the fourth column of figures .
The total number of ionS coming through the slit is ( where is the coefficient of diffusion ) , and the difference between the numbers in the third column represents The Diffusion of Electrons through Sht .
the number of ions that diffuse outwards and become discharged by the boundary at the distance of 3 cm .
from the central plane .
It will be seen that more than 99 per cent. of the ions that enter the field are collected by the electrodes when the ratio exceeds The fifth column contains the values of the ratio derived from the simplified equation .
The values are those used by Prof. and Mr. Tizard to deduce the values of from the experimental determination of The agreement between the numbers in the fourth and fifth columns shows that the error introduced by neglecting the term in the differential equation for is negligible for the larger values of , and rises to a 4-per-cent .
error when is equal to

