]\gt ; 356 Dr. H. J. S. Sand .
The Role of ffusion during [ Nov. 2S , In the last column , UL , the values of are given , calculated by ths same formula , but using for the temperature variation deduced from the experiments on the upper limit .
The correspondence of colum1lS 4 and 5 , and the divergence in column 6 , are quite sufficient to show that the temperature variation of the lower limit is in agreement with the of viscosity rather than with the formula obtained from the upper limit .
The experiments are important in showing a close agreement with the theoretical formula of Reynolds , which not only the viscosity formula to hoId , but the inverse-diameter law as well .
agreement of the individual observations confirms our evious conclusions , in showing the uncertainty in measuring critical velocity , not from the want of accuracy in the measuring appliances , but the variation in the point itself .
It is only by taking a mean of @ number of observations that anything like an accurate value can be obtained .
" " The Role of sion during ] ysis by Colloidal Metals and Similar Substances By HENRY J. S. SAND , Ph. D. , M.Sc .
, University College , Nottingham .
by ProfessoI J. H. POINTING , F.R.S. eceived November , \mdash ; Read De .
cember 8 , 1904 .
In a paper on reaction-velocities in heterogeneous systems , Nernst* has recently put the view that all chemical reactions taking place on the boundary of two phases proceed to equilibrium practically instantaneously , and that the velocities actually observed ars simpIy those with which diffusion and convection renew the reacting materia ] at the boundary .
As a spet , ial instance of heterogsneous reactions , he mentions catalytic decompositions due to finely divided particles , such as colloidal metals , and he believes it probable that the kinetics oi these reactions can be deduced from the assumption that chemical equilibrium remains permanently established on the surface of the particles .
Processes of this kind have recently undergone a considerable amount of experimental investigation , the most important instanc.es being the catalytic decomposition of hydrogen peroxide due to colloidal platinumt and colloidal gold by Bredig and his pupils , and the catalytic decomposition of the same substance due to haemase by Senber .
S In his last papor Senter discusses his reaction in the light of Nernst 's hypothesis , and arrives at the conclusion that the known facts do not contradict it .
* ' Ztschft .
Phys. Chem vol. 47 , p. 52 ( 1904 ) .
Bredig and Muller , Bernec.k , ' chfb .
Phys. Chem vol. , p. 258 ( 1899 ) ; edig 1 Ikeda , ibid. , vol , 37 , .
] .
Bredig and Reindors , ' .
Chcm vol. 37 , p. 323 ( 1901 ) .
S , vol. 44 , p. 257 ( 1903 ) ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 74 , .
talysis by C'olloidal Metals and similar bstances .
With regard to this result , it must be observed that a colloidal solution of haemase does not afford the most suitable example from ' which to draw theoretical conclusions , as nothing whatever is known legarding the size of the active particles , their nature and their number .
More definite results can be obtained from a criticism of Bredig 's experiments , for in them we are dealing with platinum , or gold , substances of known properties , the absolute quantities of which are stated for every experiment .
Moreover , although we are without definite information regarding the shape , size , and number of the particles , yet we are safe in assuming that in those colloidal solutions which were at all stable , no particles occurred of diameter greater than In order to carry out any calculations , the diffusion coefficient of hydrogen peroxide is also requisite .
So far as I aware , number has not been determined .
If we take as representative of difiusion coefficients of ytes at , the following values determined by Scheffer for molecules heavier than that of hydrogen peroxide:\mdash ; Urea , ] .
; Chloral hydrate , Mannite , we see that we shall probably not make a very large error , and not take a too high value , if we assume for hydrogen peroxide a diffusion coefficient of of the Exp irimental Resnlts.\mdash ; It will be convenient to preface this discussion by a summary of the available results .
In neutral and acid solutions Bredig found that the reaction proceeded as one of the first order , that is , it was expressed by the equation ( 1 ) , in which is the initial concentration of the hydrogen peroxide , its concentration after the time , and a constant .
The same equatio1 ] holds for haemase , according to Senter 's experiments .
In alkaline solution , no general formula was found by edig to express the results .
The constant is greatly influenced by the addition of certain substances poisons ) .
it varies more rapidly than proportionadly with the concentration of the catalyser , and increases with change of temperature , rising to its threefold value every On the Si cmAvailable Surfn( of tl Particl in Partially Solutions.\mdash ; I do not propose to entel into it discussion of the effect of poisons more deeply than is required for the objects of the present paper .
It seems two nations c compatible with Nernst 's views .
Firslly , in the case of , vol. 31 , ) . .
H. J. S. Sand .
The Role of Diffusion during [ Nov. whioh have a very powerful effect , an inactive film may be formed on the parbicles by chemical action of bhe poison , whensver the concentration of the latter in the ution is greater than a certain definite value and the platinum would thus be completely poisoned as soon as was exceeded by the small quantity necessary to form the coating .
Such an explanation is , however , manifestly not applicable to weak poisons , such as acids and certain electrolytes , the action of hich begins at low , and is not complete until very values are attained .
In this case it seems that the only explanation compatible with Nernst 's hypothesis would have to be sought in the tendency of such substances to cause the coalescence and final precipitation of the particles .
The influence of alkalies in accelerating the reaction would lie in their tendency to bring about further disintegl.ation of particles which had already undergone partial coalescence .
In case , however , as has been pointed out , we may assume that in solutions which are at all stable no particles occur of a diameter than Experimental Results on Dependence of Beaction elocity on Concenof the can only be Reconciled with the Idea of a Heterogeneous by cognising the Important Part Played by ( iurr It is a priori clear with regard to the relative of diffusion and convection that the latter must be seriously considered , owing to the fact that solid particles suspended in a liquid are known to be in a state of continual movement performing the so-called Brownian motions .
Besides , in the mors concentrated solutio1ls oxygen-bubbles given off , and cannot fail to stir the liquid .
As a matter of fact , a brief examination of the resuIts summarised suffices to show that they are not in agreement with Nernst 's hypothesis , if we suppose diffusion alone , without convection , to be responsible for the neutralisation of changes of concentration .
We may even further , and say that the fact that increases more rapidly than proportionally with the concentration of the catalyser cannot be reconciled with the idea of a heterogeneous reaction at all , unless the process taking place on the surface of one of the particles influences of its neighbours ) some non-chemical means , such as the production of convection currents .
If we were dealing with a stationary liquid , whatever the chemical mechanism of the reaction may .
be , the amount of substance decomposed in a given time at the eginning of the experiment would be proportional to the number of particles , that is , to the concentration of the platinum .
Now , the constant may be takeri as a direct measure for this amount , as is lear from the following relation arising from Equation 1 , CK ( 2 ) .
* Bredig , loc. , vol. 31 , p. 306 , 1904 .
] Catalysis by Cotloidal Metals and Bredig 's resuIts thus contradict the idea of a heterogeneous ction taking place in a stationary liquid .
They , however , become intelligible if we .
the influence of convection .
Proceeding on h1les similar to those adopted by Nernst , we may assume each particle to ) rounded by a film of adhering liquid , the thic.kness of which depends very largely on the amount of motion taking place in the solution .
The thinner the film , the greater will be the flow of to the particles , and the greater , therefore , the velocity of the tction .
Now , in the solutions conbaining large quantities of the catal .
more convection is produced than in those in which ntities are present , owing to the ) evolution of of oxygell gas , and in this fact the explallation of Bredig 's is very probably to be sought .
In accordance herewith , we should expect that solutions colltaining very small amounts of catalyser , and in which , consequently , the evolution of oxygen is so slight that no gas-bubbles are produced , no deviation from the law of proportionality between and the conoentration of the catalytic particles would occur .
This point has not been specially tested by Bredig , but by resuIts scattered over his paper , we may gather that the conclusion is correct .
Thus , in ) , first part , , we have concentration of platinum average value of mately , whereas , at the olld of Table 13 , p. 300 , we have , at a later date , with the same platinum solution , diluted to a co1lce1ltition of , approximately equal to only slightly less than one-tenth of the former value .
In agreement with this , Sentcr found that in his ery dilute solutions the velocity of the reaction was proportional to the co11centration of the catalyser , whereas in more concentrated solution it increased rapidly .
The Experimental esults on of eaction on Cannot be econciled with Nernst 's Hypoth ) ) ?
vection 4 an Importnnt Part.\mdash ; Bredig 's resuIts regarding the iIlfluence of temperature cannot be reconciled with Nernst 's hypothesis if we suppose the particles and liquid to be stationary .
In this case the only efffcct of a rise of would be to increase the diffnsion coefficient of the solute by about per cent. per the resnlt of this can be sesn from the following theorem :tions i a liquid are determined solely by diffusion to Fick 's in such a manner that they arise out of a condition not defined as a time-relation which is niformlv throughout the nt ( such as the one the tion i permanently kept at zero on the surface of lrticles of shape and distribution tever ) , then the may be expressed as a tion o1lly of the of point 360 Dr. H. J. S. Sand .
The Role of Diffusion during [ Nov. 22 , and the product of the diifusion coefficient and the time , the average concentration being a function only of the product of the diffusion coefficient and the time .
By the application of this theorem to Equation 1 , we find that if this equabion were the resuIt solely of diffusion in a stationary liquid , then in order that it may conform with Nernst 's hypothesis , the constant must increase by about per cent. per degree .
This is a far smaller increase thaH that actually observed .
If , however , convection takes place with incrsasing efficiency as the temperature ises , there is so far no contradiction with Nernst 's hypothesis .
If the Distribution of the Particles is FinEnough , the Concentraf qhroughout the Liquid will be Uiform.\mdash ; It should be pointed out here that if only the disintegration of the particles is great enough and their distribution consequently fine enough , changes of concentration occurring on their surfaces will be transmitted practically instantaneously throughout the liquid by diffusion .
In this case , if Nernst 's hypothesis is correct , the coucentration of the whole solution would be instantaneously reduced to zero , but even if this hypothesis doss not hold , the idea of a heterogeneous reaction would demand that the velocity of reaction at a given concer1tration of the solute should be proportional to the concentration of the catalysing particles .
If Nernst 's Hypothesis Holds , the eacfion locities Bredig must be than those Calculated for \mdash ; We have thus seen that convection currents play an important part in the processes under discussion , and always tend to accelerate them .
The last-named fact opens up a way by means of which to apply a direct test to Nernst 's hypothesis .
If , on this hypothesis , an ex- pression could be calculated which is equal to or smaller than the reaction velocity under the smallest conceivable amount of convection , this expression should always be smaller than the experimentally found values , and if it is equal to or greater than the latter , this would prove that Nernst 's hypothesis must be discarded in the cases under investigation , i.e. , that the concentration of hydrogen peroxide on the surfaces of the particles is not permanently maintained at zero .
As has already been stated , we possess an upper limit for the diameter of the particles , and we shall assume them all to be spheres of this diameter , thus being certain to obtain minimum value * There is no difflculty whatever in proving this theol.em in a ticai way , but it becomes immediately obvious , when we remember that 1 ' ( an give the dilfusion coefflcieut any desired value by incl .
the unit crf time to its -fold value .
the new u1tits nny of time which before was expressed by is now given by , and in order tions after any real interval of time may remain unaltered , the above must hold .
by Cotloidal Metats and bstances .
361 ction velocity .
It is evident that if a given volume were distributed in pieces of l$rger surface and more especially in flat pieces or in pieces of smaller diameter , a much larger reaction velocity would arise .
We again assume each particle to be surrounded by an adhering film of liquid , in which no convection , in such a manner that the greater the amount of stirring or motion in the solution , the smaller the thickness of this layer .
On the outside of the film the concentration may be considered to have a definite value which is not exceeded in any part of the solution .
If the film is exceedingly thin , then the flow of solute to the particle will continually be very great and roughly inversely proportional to the thickness of the film .
If the latter , however , be thick , then , as will be seen in the sequel , the flow of solute to the particle rapidly decreases to a value corresponding to a permanent distribution of concentration in such a manner that this flow becomes practically independent of the thickness of the layer and only depends on the concentration outside .
It should be pointed out here that a limit is set to the thickness of the films by the fact that their total volume must bs smaller than that of the liquid .
If each layer with its enclosed particle forms a sphere of radius and is the number of particles per unit volume , we , therefore , have the inequality The concentration outside the films , as will be seen in the sequel , is practically the average concentration of the liquid .
If , therefore , the particles are far apart , we shall by always assuming the permanent flow to take place , corresponding to a very ( infinitely ) thick layer , on the outside of which the average concentration of the liquid is , obtain values for reaction velocity , which may be taken to be those belonging to the minimum conceivable amount of convection .
Deduction Formula ' the Beaction elocity Cresponding to a Minimum of COnvection.\mdash ; We have to deal with the following case : sphere of given radius is immersed in a solution of the concentration .
On its surface the concentration is kept continually at zero , and at a distance from its centre the concentration is always to be found , which is not exceeded in any part of the liquid .
The smallest conceivable amount of solute , , that could under these conditions flow to the sphere in the time , is the value which would have if the conditions we have assumed had already been in operation an infinite period of time .
This would mean that a permanent state had been established , and as it is our object to find a minimum value for the substance removed , the first part of our problem consists in determining corresponding to the permanent state .
362 Dr. H. J. S. Sand .
The Diffusion during [ Nov. The total amount of solute flowing in the time towards the centre of the sphere across a concentric spherical surface of radius is given by . .
( 4 ) , if indicates the diffu , -ion coefficient of the solute , and its conc.entration at the points mder consideration .
From this equation we by considerations of a well-known kind* at the relation ( 5 ) .
the permanent state we have , the limiling conditions being for ( 6 ) , for ( 7 ) .
The result of the integration under these conditions is ( 8 ) , and the amount removed at the surface of the small sphere in the time follows from quation 4 ( 9 ) , the being defined by . .
( 10 ) , and decreasing from infinity to 1 as increases from to infinity .
We now have to show that in all the cases we are dealing with the quantity does not differ appreciably from the average concentration of the liquid .
Indicating again by the number of particles per unit volume of solution , and by their total volume , then ( 11 ) , and , which is equal to the total amount of soluts per unit volume of liquid , is given by D. liminating c and from this expression by means of Equations 8 and simplifying , obtain * Sec Foul .
Theory of Heat SS 112 and 113 by Clloi .
363 : This equation , taken in coniunction with the inequality 3 , and with Equation 1 , leads to the conclusion that the greatest conceivable value for the erence between and is .
Now , in all the cases we have to consider is snlaller than , so hatA we may , without , make equal to C. Remenl:bering , also , that the decrease of in the time equals fand sxpressing the radii of the spheres by their diameter , we obtain :from Equations 9 and 11 from which , by utilising the limiting condition for , we find by integration .
( 12 ) , the constant being given by the equation ( 13 ) , and having the minimum value ' Bxamples to Show that Equwtions 9 , 12 , anClose to the Resuli .
( a ) Sphere in Infinite Space.\mdash ; In deducing the we assumed the permanent state to be always produced instantaneously , 1 and we have made it clear that the resuIt thus obtained for the rabe of 1 of concentration will certainly not be too large .
In reality , when the spheres are so small as those we have to deal with , and the volume they draw solute from more than a millionfold as great a as their own , no appreciable error is made by our assumptio1l .
We can readily provs this by integrating Equation 5 completely for simple cases , and showing that the results approximate very quickly to those we have calculated .
As a first example , we determine the amount of solute which would : be removed by each sphere after the time if it were placed in an infinite amount of solution at the beginning of the iment .
For , this purpose we calculate an expression for the concentration throughout the liquid at any time by integrating Equation 5 under the condition ( etween xrdition expressed bquation 6 .
and for , and the Coll. VOL. LXXIV .
: 364 Dr. H. J. S. Sand .
The Role of Diffusion during ?
The integral obtained is a result which can be verified without difficulty .
The amouut of removed by the sphere after the first seconds is when The first member on the right side of this equation is identical with the value which follows for equal infinity from the Equation 9 we previously employed .
Making cm , we can calculate that the difference between this quantity and amounts to only per cent. of after 1 second .
A Sphere in a Large Endosed Sphoerical .\mdash ; The close approximation of the result expressed by Equations 12 and 14 to the correct value for stationary liquids , in which the radius of action of eao spherical particle is great compared with its own diameter , is specially made clear by the full calculation of the case in which one of the spherical particles is placed in the centre of a spherical vessel of large diameter filled with solute .
In this case we have to integrate Equation 5 , the limiting conditions being firstly that no solute can pass through the wall of the vesssl .
Indicating the radius of the latter by , this means that , i.e. , according to Equation 4 , that , for We have besides the limiting condition expressed by Equation 6 and .
the condition between and for The differential equation can be integrated subject these limits by methods similar to those employed in SS283 to 293 of Fourier 's Analytical Theory of Heat for the determination of changes of temperature in a solid sphere .
The following resuIt is thus obtained:\mdash ; . .
the numbers being ermined as the sucoessive roots of the equatiou and the coefficients by the quation Cataly by Oolloidal Metals similar Substances .
365 \mdash ; \mdash ; .
This system of equations is simplffied , and the dimensions of the occurring in them made clear by introducing in place of the quantities and defined by the ] ations : and { These quantities and are functions only of the non-dimensional number defined by the equation .
After several transformations the final system of equations is arrived at . . .
( 15 ) , the quantities being found as the successive roots of the equation .
( 16 ) , I and the quantities by the equation ( 17 ) .
Values of time always exist for which the infinite series can praotically 1 replaced by its first member .
If be small the values for and !
arising out of Equations 16 and 17 may be taken as .
and the whole expression simplified to The concentration varies with distance from the small sphere in the identical manner we found previously Equation 8 , and we have 9 Uready proved that this being so the average concentration may without appreciable error be assumed to be equal to the upper conivable limit of .
We thus have equation which by a slight transformation becomes identical with huations 12 and 14 . .
H. J. Sancl .
the of during [ Nov. 2S , 1 The Application of Equation 14 to Bredig 's Results that : contradict 's Hypothesis.\mdash ; Equation No. 12 is identical in form with No. 1 which Bredig found to represent his experimental As the constant is a measure for reaction velocities under sponding conditions ( see Equation 2 ) , we can submit Nernst 's to the test we have outlined above by a comparison of the theoretical minimnm value for of Equation 14 with the experimental values found by Bredig .
employ the results given by him in Table 7 ' Zeitschrift Physikalische Chemie , ' vol. 31 , p. 285 .
The concentration of the platinum was here -atom of platinum per litre , which is approximately c.c. of platinum per .
We thus to substitute , and into Equation 14 , find sec. Whereas the avet.age value of Bredig 's experiments in hich was present amounted to ] that is about one twenty-fifth of calculated minimum number , the average value in a solution containing no electrolyte whatever was , that is about of the calculated value .
Even in alkaline solution in whioh the reaction proceeds very much faster , the velocity is smallet ' than the calculated value , whereas on Nernst 's hypothesis it ought , as already ] ained , to be much greater .
We employ the numbers given by Bredig in Table 12 , p. 297 , for a NaOH solution , which correspond to the very greatest velocity measured by him .
Here we have -atom of platinum per litre , that is approximately per , the other quantities being the same as above .
By Equation 14 we thus calculate sec. whereas the average value of the constant given by Bredig amounts to , that is about half of the calculated minimum value .
We thus see that Bredig 's reactions proceed far too slowly to allow us to reconcile them with Nernst 's hypothesis .
An Equation of the Form of No. 1 expresses the if the docity of the jurring on the Surface of the artides is to the of the in Immediate Contad unth them \mdash ; The fact that the law obeyed by Bredig 's reactions differs only Catalysis by Colloidal Illetals and similar Substances .
367 magnitude of a constant from the formula we have deduced on hypothesis might , perhaps , seem an argument in favour of the We now proceed to show that we can obtain an equation of the same form as Nos. 1 , but differing from Nos. 13 and 14 in the value of constant , if we drop altogethe the assumption bhat equilibrium is permanently tained on the boundary between the particles and the solution , i.e. , that the concentration of the hydrogen-peroxide is permansntly maintained at zero .
Instead we assume that the amount Fdt acted upon the time by each particle is proportional to the concentration of the solute actually in contact with it .
ining the same notation we employed above , we thus have ( 18 ) , being a constant .
The amount of substance.removed on the surface of the particle must be replaced by diffusion from the interior of the solution as a discontinuity of concentration would otherwise occur .
It can be expressed in terms of and by making use of Equation 9 .
This Equation was deduced on the assumption that the concentration on the surface of the particles is zero .
As absolute values of concentration do not occur in Fick 's law of diffusion , it is evident that we may generalise the result so as to comprise the case that the concentration on the surface of the particles is by replacing of Equation 9 by the difference .
We thus obtain ( - ' ) Eliminating C ' from Equations 18 and 19 , find from which we deduce a formula identical with No. 12 , by reasoning exactly analogous to that employed to establisl ] it .
The constant in the present case , however , has the value ' the number varying according to the amou1lt of oonvection from 1 to infinity , as is clear from Equation 10 , and the number having positive value , which may be called the velocity constant proper of the reaction .
Thermodyno:mical Criticism of Nernst 's .\mdash ; In sion , it may be useful to criticise the principle put forward by Nernst from a thermodynamical point of .
The essenc.e of it is contained in the following two seIltences Many facts lead to the ssumption that equilibrium is established the ) oundary of two phases , with 368 of Diffusion during Catalysis by Metals , extremely great velocity .
Such a behaviour is also , it seems , theor4 cally necessary , for , otherwise , finite differences of chemical would occur on the of two phases , i.e. , at infinitely poinls , which would manifestly lead to infinitely great forces reaction velocities As is well known , we owe Nernst the calculation of the instance wossess feduction oocity ocoefficient owhich.orms tiantwhich monsidered tforce d whether under tsmotio pressure)solution oneven c influence of forces due to difference of concentration , or under that of electric forces , the diffusion coefficient of the electrolyte can be calculated .
Here we have an inlstarlce to which the considerations quoted above from Nernst apply beyond doubt .
We may put the matter in the following form : a discontinuity of concentration were to occur in a solution , we should have finite differences of thermodynamical potential at infinitely near points , or , in other words , finite amounts work would become available in order to move a given quantity of solute an infinitely small , or , at least , a very small way .
Now , as work required to overcome internal resistance in moving a finite quantity of solute through an infinitely small stretch of solution is infinitely small , a condition such as the one considered would lead to an infinite flow of solute .
Similarly , if a solid be brought together with its unsaturated solution , finite amounts of free energy are available to dissolve a given quantity .
Now , in this case , although it is not priwi oertain , yet it is exceedingly probable that the work is practically infinitely small which is necessary to overcome internal resistance in transferring substance an infinitely small distance from the solid to the liquid phase .
We may , therefore , conclude chat a practically instantaneous flow would occur , and bring about equilibrium on the boundary .
Similar considerations probably apply to most physical processes , or , at any rate , to such as are capable under any conditions of occurring a reversible manner .
When , however , we to chemical processes , we meet with a difference in principle .
If we wish to consider a chemical reaction as a transference of atoms over molecular distances , we ean no longer say that the work overcoming internal friction during this is a negligible quantity for a finite amount of substance .
If it were , it is evident that all chemical reactions in homogeneous systems during which finite amounts of free energy are destroyed , should be instantaneous .
This is , however , not the case .
In fact , it is not clear why a chemical reaction should proceed with greater velocity on the boundary of two phases than in the interior of one of them .
It is not On alvanio Cproduced by the Action of Light .
369 be denied that many chemical reactions do take place instantaneously pn the boundary of two phases , and a considerable number of interesting have been investigated by Brunner , which evidently conform to rule .
It does not , however , seem probable that a useful purpose twould be served in considering this rule to hold universally .
I have examined consequences drawn from it with regard to ytic rgree withby substances sitrogen peroxide during tution oopperof vocity shown bving iifferent avery dheory , reat difference conclusion , the author desires to say that he has had the advantage of discussing the matter treated in this paper with : : .
Senter and Professor Pointing , for which he acknowledges his indebtedness .
\mdash ; " " On Galyanic Cells produced by the Action of Light .
Preliminary Communication.\ldquo ; S By M. WILDERMAN , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Oxon ) .
Communicated by Dr. LUDWIG MOND , F.R.S. November 8 , \mdash ; Read November 24 , 1904 .
( From the Davy-Farada .
Laboratory of the Royal Institution .
) In my paper " " On Chemical Statics and Dynamics\ldquo ; ' Phil. Trans , vol. 199 , 1902 , I ) .
337 ) , and especially ' Zeit .
Physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 42 , 1902 , pp. 316\mdash ; 335 , I deduced , from thermodynamics , the laws experimentally found by me for velocity of chemical reaction , and for chemical equihbrium under the action of light , from the fundamental conception that the chemical potential of substance in light and in the dark is different , becoming er in light .
The foundation for this conception was that two metallic plates immersed in a liquid and connected to a circuit form a ' galvanic\ldquo ; combination , when one plate is exposed to light while the other is kept in the dark ; and , according to Gibbs ' equation , ( no galvanic cell could ) formed , unless the chemical potentiaIs at the two electrodes were different in light and in the dark .
The experiments of Becquerel and Iinchin left students to infer $ ' .
Phys. ' vol. 47 , p. 56 ( 1904 ) .
Farad , Iy Society , tober 2 , 1904 .
r$ Ostwald , ' Grundlinien .
anorganischen Chemie , ' p. 249 .
S This paper contains a account of the 's further rese , rehes on " " Chemical Statics and Dynamics of Reversible and Irreversible Systems unde ] the Action of Light

