Part of a Letter from Mr. Patrick Blair to Dr. Hans Sloane , R. S. Secr. Giving an Account of the Asbestos , or Lapis Amiantus , found in the the High-lands of Scotland .
I Take leave to communicate the Relation of a Gentleman in the High-lands , not many Miles hence , who has lately built an House of a singular kind of Stone , dug out of a Quarry not sar from him .
This Stone , after the Rubbish , which is not very deep , is done away , lies Horizontally in a Bed endued with parallel Fibres , with few Interstices , soft at the beginning , and easy to be smoothed and polished without any Tool , but rather with Sand , or an other hard Stone of a bluish Colour , which asterwards hardens so , that it resisteth the injuries of Air or prejadice of Fire .
When first the Quarrier began to dig it , he was at a mighty loss ; for endeavouring to cut and raise it after the ordinary manner with Wedges , and other usual Instruments , it broke and crumbled all to pieces : But afterwards , observing more narrowly the Duct of its Fibres , so to speak , he endeavoured to cut it with Spades lengthways ; and by this means he procured Stones as big as he had a mind , which smoothed very easily along the Tract of their Fibres ; but when cut transverse , no Means nor Methods could render them smooth , ~ut their Surface remained unequal as the Extremities of a piece of Wood .
Although , as I said , this Quarry has but few Interstices , yet in those it has the true Asbestos , of a whitish Silver Surface , consisting of several fasciculi with parallel Fibres , like to those of the muscular Fibres of salted Beef , easily separable from each other , pure white , till it becomes so small as the finest Fiax , and so ductile , that it may be spun into the finest Thread , whereof it were easy to make the incombustible Cloth , so famous for Shrines among the Ancients .
In other places of those Interstices , was likewise to be observed a reddish Substance , near to the colour of Sanguis Draconis ; but whether Fibrous or not , I cannot inform you , since the Gentleman could not show me any of it ; but added , he believed it might be good for dying .
I got a small parcel~ of the Asbestos from him ; and he told me , if he had known its value , he could have preserved some Pounds of it .
I am ready to think the second kind was Fibrous too , which might make a very beautiful Cloath , being striped with the other .
The Quarry is at present full of Rubbish ; but he tells me , he is to build again this ensuing Summer ; and you may be assured , if any such Substance be hereafter found , it shall be carefully preserved .
In a Word , this whole Quarry may be said to be Asbestos of different Colours , the blaeish being of a much courser , and the white and red of a finer Grain .
I have been at the Gentlemans House , of whom I have this Account , and you may look upon it as Authentic .
Coupar of Angus , Yours , March 15 .
1712 .
P. BLAIR .

