V. Some Observations on the Heat of Wells and Springs in the Island of Jamaica , and on the Temperature of the Earth below the Surface in different Climates .
By John Hunter , M. D. F. R. S. ; communicated by the Hon. Henry Cavendish , F. R. S. Read December 20 , 1787 .
TOTHEHO N. M R. CAVENDIS H. SIR , THE following observations on the heat of springs and wells , and their application towards determining the mean temperature of the earth in different climates , were suggested by you in some conversation on that subject , previous to my going to Jamaica in 1780 .
If you think them deserving the attention of the Royal Society , I must beg the favour of you to lay them before that learned Body .
I have the honour to be , &amp;c. JOHN HUNTER .
Charles-street , Dec. 11 , 1787 .
THE great difference between the temperature of the open air , and that of deep caverns or mines , has long been taken notice of , both as matter of curiosity and surprise .
After thermometers were brought to a tolerable degree of perfection , and meteorological registers were kept with accuracy , it became a problem , to determine what the cause was of this difference between the heat of the air , and the heat of the earth ; for it was soon found , that the temperature of mines and caverns did not depend upon any thing peculiar to them ; but that a certain depth under ground , whether in a cave , a mine , or a well , was sufficient to produce a very sensible difference in the heat .
In observations of this kind , there was perhaps nothing more striking , than that the heat in such caves was nearly the same in summer and winter ; and this even in changeable climates , that admitted of great variation between the extremes of heat in summer , and cold in winter .
There is an example of this in the cave of the Royal Observatory at Paris .
The explanations , which have been attempted of this phenomenon , have turned chiefly upon a supposition , that there was an internal source of heat in the earth itself , totally independent of the influence of the sun * .
M. DE MAIRAN has bestowed much labour on this subject , and by observation and calculation is led to conclude , that of the 1026~ of heat ( by REAUMUR'S scale ) , which he finds to be the heat of summer at Paris , 34~,02 only proceed from the sun , and the remaining 991~,98 from the earth , by emanations of heat from the center ~ .
The proportion therefore of heat derived from this latter source is to that of the sun , as 29,16 to 1 .
It must be evident , that an hypothesis of this kind , which renders the influence of the sun of small account , is directly contrary to the general * Vid. MARTINE'S Essays , p. 319 .
~ Memoir .
de l'Acad .
des Sciences , An. 1719 et 1765 .
experience and conviction of mankind .
Without entering , however , into any discussion of the data from whence M. DE MAIRAN draws his conclusions , it will be more satisfactory to consider what the effect of the operation of those laws of heat , with which we are acquainted , would be .
And first , it is well known , that heat in all bodies has a tendency to diffuse itself equally through every part of them , till they become of the same temperature .
Again , bodies of a large mass are both cooled and heated slowly .
Besides the mass of matter , there are two other considerations of much importance in the slow or quick transmission of heat through bodies ; these are their different conducting powers , and their being in a state of solidity or fluidity .
The conducting powers of heat are well known to be very various in different bodies ; nor are they hitherto reducible to any law , depending either upon the density , or chemical properties of matter .
Metals of all kinds are good conductors of heat , while glass , an heavy , solid , homogeneous body , is an extremely bad conductor , even when a metallic calx enters largely into its composition , as in flint-glass .
A state of fluidity greatly promotes the diffusion of heat ; for a body in a fluid state , by the particles moving readily among each other from their different densities or other causes , mixes the warm and cold parts together , which occasions a quick communication of heat .
To apply these observations to the present subject ; the surface of the earth being exposed to the great heats of summer , and the colds of winter , or more properly the low degree of heat of winter , will receive a larger proportion of heat in the former season , and a smaller in the latter ; and being further of a large mass , and of a porous and spongy substance , and therefore not quickly sensible to small variations of heat , it will become of a mean temperature at a certain depth , between the heat of summer , and the cold of winter , provided it contain no internal source of heat within itself .
This conclusion is strictly agreeable to the experiments and observations hitherto made , in heating and cooling bodies , or in mixing portions of matter of the same kind of different temperatures * .
Water , though in a large mass , follows in some degree the heat and cold of our summer and winter , from the mobility of its parts occasioning a more speedy diffusion of heat .
Air is quickly susceptible of heat , and from the expansions produced in it , and consequent motions in the whole mass , the temperature is soon rendered uniform .
The changes in the heat of the air are what we have measured , and we are to be understood to speak of them , when we talk of the temperature of summer and of winter .
It may be asked then , is the heat of the sun first communicated to the air , and thereby to the earth ?
No , the air is susceptible of a very small degree of heat from the rays of the sun passing through it ; for it is well known , they produce no heat in a transparent medium , and consequently , that the air is only so far heated as it differs from a medium that is perfectly transparent .
The heat produced by the rays of the sun bears a proportion to their number , their duration , and their falling more or less perpendicularly ; and it takes place at the points where they strike an opaque and non-reflecting surface .
The surface of the earth may therefore be considered as the place , from whence the heat proceeds , which is communicated to the air above , and the earth below .
That this is really the case is evident from the superior degree of heat , produced by the action of the rays of the sun upon an opaque body , which will often be heated to 150~ ( FAHRENHEIT ) , while the temperature of the air is not above 90~ ~ .
It may seem , therefore , that to measure the heat communicated * Vid. DE LUC Modifications de l'Atmosphere , Vol. I. p. 285 .
~ MARTINE'S Essays , p. 309 .
to the earth , it should be done at the surface , where the action of the rays immediately takes place .
But though the heat be produced at the surface , it is communicated freely to the air as well as the earth ; and though the apparent intensity of heat be greater in the earth , from the rays of light acting for a longer time upon the same parts of matter , yet there is little doubt that much the greater part is carried off by the air , which as it is heated flies off , and allows a fresh portion of cold air to come in contact with the heated surface .
But still it is immaterial , whether the heat of the sun be excited more in the earth or in the air ; for whichever has the larger proportion will in the end communicate a part to the other , and so restore the balance .
The same observation applies to such causes of cold as may operate at the surface of the earth , as evaporation , and that taken notice of by Mr. WILSON * .
The air , therefore , near the surface of the earth will show by a thermometer in the shade nearly , if not exactly , the same degree of heat that the sun communicates to our terrestrial globe ; and if a mean of the heats thus shown be taken for the year round , and we penetrate into the earth to that depth , that it is no longer affected either by the daily , monthly , or annual variations of heat , the temperature at such depth should be equal to the annual mean above mentioned .
To ascertain this with the utmost precision , it must be obvious , that numerous observations should be made every day , corresponding to the frequent changes of temperature , which are known to happen in the course of the twenty-four hours in all climates ; and upon these a daily mean should be taken , and the annual mean deduced therefrom .
This has not yet been done , but where we have observations from which a mean temperature can be deduced with any degree of certainty , it will be found not to differ greatly from * Vid. Phil. Tranf .
Vol. LXX .
p. 451 .
and Vol. LXXI .
p. 386 .
the heat of deep caves , or wells in the same climate .
If further experience and observation should confirm the above opinions , it will be attended with this advantage , that we shall be possessed of an easy and ready method of ascertaining the mean temperature of any climate ; which , with a few observations of the extremes of heat and cold at particular seasons , will teach us as much of the country , with regard to heat and cold , as the meteorological observations of several years .
For obtaining the temperature of the earth the best observations are probably to be collected from wells of a considerable depth , and in which there is not much water .
Springs issuing from the earth , although indicating the temperature of the ground from whence they proceed , are not so much to be depended upon as wells ; for the course of the spring may be derived from high grounds in the neighbourhood , and it will thence be colder ; it may run so near the surface as to be liable to variations of heat and cold from summer and winter ; or it may be exposed to local causes of heat in the bowels of the earth .
Wells seem also better than deep caverns , for the apertures to such are often large , and may admit enough of the external air to occasion some change in their temperature .
Wells are not , however , to be met with in all places , and in that case we must remain satisfied with the temperature of the springs .
The following observations were made in the Island of Jamaica , where there are flat lands in many parts towards the coast , but all the interior part of the country is mountainous .
The heat is greatest in the low lands , and decreases as you ascend the mountains .
The town of Kingston is supplied with water from wells .
The ground on which it stands rises with a gentle ascent as you recede from the sea .
In the low part of the town the wells are but a few feet deep , and many of them brackish .
The heat of the water in some of them I have found as high as 82~ ; but they were evidently too near the surface not to be affected by the heat of the seasons .
As you ascend , the wells are deeper , and the temperature is nearly 80~ in all of them .
What variations there are , come within one degree , that is , half a degree less than 80~ , or half a degree more .
They are of different depths , and some not less than 100 feet ; though , after they are of half that depth , the temperature is nearly uniform .
At the Governor 's Pen , which is also in the low part of the country , a well , which is above 60 feet deep , is 791/ 2~ .
There is a well at Half-way-Tree , 243 feet deep , which is 79~ .
Half-way-Tree is two miles from Kingston , with a very gentle ascent .
Near Rock-Fort is a spring , immediately at the foot of the long mountain , which throws out a great body of water ; the heat of it is 79~ .
All the places mentioned are but very little above the level of the sea , probably not more than the depth of the wells at the respective places ; for near Kingston there are springs that appear just below the water-mark of the sea , and those that supply the wells are probably upon the same level .
The temperature of the air at Kingston admits but of small variation .
The thermometer , at the hottest time of the day , and during the hottest season of the year , ranges from 85~ to 90~ ; in the coolest season , and observed about sun-rise , which is the coldest time in the twenty-four hours , it ranges from 70~ to 77~ .
I have seen it once as low as 69~ , and two different times as high as 91~ .
The annual mean temperature cannot , therefore , either much exceed , or fall much short of , 80~ , as indicated by the wells .
The following springs were examined with much accuracy by the Hon. Mr. SEWELL , Attorney General of the Island .
Ayscough 's spring , on the road from Spanish Town to Pusey 's , in St. John 's parish , 75~ .
Pusey 's spring , still higher in the mountains , 72~3/ 4 .
A spring near the baracks at Points Hill in St. John 's parish , 70~ .
The thermometer in the shade at Pusey 's , during part of the month of June , was found to range from 69~1/ 2 to 79~1/ 2 .
It was observed both late at night , and early in the morning before sun-rise .
The spring in Brailsford Valley , about ten miles above Spanish Town , is 75~ .
The spring at Stony Hill is 71~ .
These were examined by Mr. HOME .
Mr. WALLEN'S house , at Cold Spring , stands the highest of any in the island .
By a measurement , said to have been made by Mr. Mc FARLANE , it is reported to be 1400 yards above the level of the sea .
On the road to it , and about a mile below Mr. WALLEN'S house , there is a spring that issues from the side of the hill , of the temperature of 65~ .
Cold Spring , which gives a name to the place , is about fifty feet below the house , and the heat of it is 61~3/ 4 .
The thermometer in the shade at Mr. WALLEN'S house , for some days in the month of April , ranged from 57~ to 67~ .
It may be remarked , that the higher the springs the colder they are ; and , as far as a conjecture can be formed from so few observations , they would appear not to differ much from the mean temperature of their respective places * .
It will not be out of place to add some observations made in England , relative to the same subject .
The wells in and * The thermometers made use of were all made by Mr. RAMSDEN .
about London are either of no great depth , or are full of water , which are both considerable objections to their giving a mean temperature .
The want of depth will make them subject to the variations of the seasons ; and a large quantity of water , even in a deep well , will take the temperature of the air more or less : for any change of temperature communicated at the surface will , from the fluidity of the water , be readily diffused through the whole .
I suspect it is owing to this cause , that the wells in the neighbourhood of Brighthelmstone vary from 50~ to 52~ , for those were the highest that had most water in them .
My observations were made in summer .
These wells are of various depths , from 15 to 150 feet .
That which I always found the coldest is not more than 22 feet deep ; I never found its heat greater than 50~ .
It is near the beach , and is a tide well , that is , the water in it rises and falls , and in so doing does not correspond exactly with the tides , but follows them with an interval of about three hours .
At the lowest there is not more than a foot of water in it ; and it may be considered as a subterraneous spring running through the bottom of the well .
There are in fact numerous springs that break out upon the sand , a few feet above the low-water mark , which are doubtless the same that supply the wells .
As we are not acquainted with any cause that produces cold in the bowels of the earth , we must necessarily in every climate , consider the lowest degree of heat as approaching nearest to the mean temperature ; and therefore we cannot conclude the mean temperature at Brighthelmstone to be more than 50~ .
The mean temperature of London is computed about 526* ; but Brighthelmstone is nearly fifty miles farther south than London , and is immediately upon the sea , * KIRWAN'S Temperature of different Latitudes , p. 73 .
and must therefore be at least as warm as London .
It is evident , that the observations from which the mean is taken , must generally contain more of the extremes of heat than of cold , as the former happen in the day-time , and the latter in the night , in consequence of which they will often escape notice .
There is a table constructed by Dr. HEBERDEN * , expressing the heat in London for every month in the year , from a mean of ten years beginning with 1763 , and ending with 1772 .
The mean temperature is given both at 8 A.M. and 2 P.M. There is further in the table , a column of the mean of the greatest monthly colds in the night , observed during the same ten years by Lord CHARLES CAVENDISH , in Marlborough-street .
There will not probably be any great error in considering the heat observed at 2 P.M. as the greatest daily heat ; and taking a mean btween the greatest heats of the day , and greatest colds of the night , they give 49~ , 196 for an annual mean , which is much lower than is commonly supposed .
At the house of GEORGE GLENNY , Esq. near Bromley , there is a well seventy-five feet deep , which I found in November 49~1/ 2 .
M. DE MAIRAN has given a table of the greatest heats and greatest colds observed at Paris for fifty-six years , beginning from 1701 ; and a mean of them is 10~ above freezing , or 1010~ , of REAUMUR'S scale ~ .
The temperature of the cave of the Observatory where those observations were made , is 10~1/ 4 above freezing , by the same scale of REAUMUR .
There appears not therefore any necessity for an internal heat ; on the contrary , it is matter of demonstration , that were there any source of heat in the earth which was not equally in the air , the heat of the interior parts ought to be * The Table alluded to follows this Paper .
~ Mem. de l'Acad .
des Sciences , An. 1765 , p. 202 .
higher than a mean : and did the central heat bear as high a proportion to that of the sun as M. DE MAIRAN alleges , the heat of the earth itself ought to be a great deal above the mean temperature of the air , which from observation there is no ground for believing .
It is easy to see the source of M. DE MAIRAN'S error ; he has founded his calculations upon the scale of REAUMUR , and considers the degrees of his thermometer as marking the real proportions , and absolute quantity of heat * .
It is a matter that cannot be denied , that we know nothing of the absolute quantities of heat ; and that the degrees of our thermometers are only to be considered as a few of the middle links of a chain , the length of which we are totally ignorant of , and therefore in no condition to compare its proportional parts .
It deserves , however , to be remarked , that observations of a late date have shown , that the notions of cold upon which REAUMUR 's scale was constructed , and upon which M. DE MAIRAN 's calculations are founded , are imaginary and without foundation ~ .
Hot springs and volcanos may be produced as proofs of the existence of an internal source of heat in the earth ; but their operation appears to be limited to a very small extent , and scarcely deserving of notice in the present discussion .
It is no uncommon thing to find springs of the usual temperature close by hot springs ; and no volcano , with which we are yet acquainted , appears to have raised the temperature of the country immediately adjoining to it .
The sea admits of change of temperature more quickly than the earth , particularly near the shore .
The mean heat of the * Vid. Memoir .
de l'Acad .
des Sciences , An. 1765 , p. 143 .
~ Vid. Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXIII .
p. * 303 .
303 .
and 329 .
sea at Brighthelmstone , during the months of July , August , September , and October , was as follows : July 63~1/ 7 August 63~1/ 2 September 58~ October 53~ The observations were made with a view to ascertain the temperature of the sea as a bath , and therefore the heat was taken about nine in the morning , and near the shore , the usual time and place of bathing .
The water gets hotter towards three o'clock in the afternoon , so that it not only follows the monthly , but even the daily changes of the temperature of the air .
In the four months just mentioned , the extremes of heat and cold are considerable : I have seen it as hot as 71~ , and as cold as 49~ .
In the month of August last , Sir HENRY ENGLEFIELD examined the heat of the sea at the same time that I did , and we both found it 71~ : it was about 4 P.M. of a very hot day .
I may be allowed to remark , that sea-bathing is a very different thing at different seasons of the year , and requires an acquaintance with the variations of the temperature , to adapt it to particular cases .
It were to be wished .
that the heat of wells and springs were examined at different seasons of the year , in order to ascertain the effect of summer and of winter upon them .
The wells at New York are from 32 to 40 feet in depth , and Dr. NOOTH found them to have an annual variation of two degrees from 54~ to 56~ .
There are few countries , in which the annual range of the thermometer is greater than at New York , and the neighbouring parts of America .
In the summer it is often as high as 96~ , and in winter it has been observed several degrees below the zero of FAHRENHEIT'S scale .
We may , I think , from all the observations we are yet in possession of , conclude , that there is at present no source of heat in the earth , capable of affecting the temperature of a country , which is not derived from the sun ; and that the earth , whatever changes of temperature it may be conjectured to have undergone in former periods , is now reduced to a mean of the heat produced by the sun in different seasons , and in different climates .

