The Bakerian Lecture .
On the Composition and Analysis of the Inflammable Gaseous Coympounds resulting from the Destructive Distillation of Coal and Oil , with some Remarks on their relative Heating and Illuminating Powers .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R. I. Read November 18 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 11 .
] This paper is divided into two sections : in the first , the author 's object is to show that no other compound of carbon and hydrogen can be demonstrated to exist except that usually termed olefiant gas , consisting of one proportion of carbon and one of hydrogen ; and that the supposed compound of one of carbon and two of hydrogen , generally called light iyd rocarbonate , is in reality a mere mixture of hydrogen and olefiant gases .
In proof of this opinion he details a series of analytical experiments upon the gases from coal , oil , acetate of potash , moist charcoal , &amp;c. , conducted chiefly by detonation with oxygen , by heat alone , and by the action of sulphur at high temperatures , and obtains results analogous to those afforded by mixtures of hydrogen and olefiant gas , of the same specific gravities .
Of the gases above-mentioned , however , the specific gravity , combustibility , and intensity of light during combustion , are often much interfered with by the presence of carbonic oxide and carbonic acid .
Of the products obtained by the destructive distillation of coal and oil , Mr. Brand thinks that some are of what may be termed secondary formation ; that is , that they result from the mutual action of the first formed gaseous products at high temperatures .
Thus a peculiar compound of hydrogen and carbon , volatile and odorous , resembling tar in appearance , but having the characters of resin , is formed by passing pure olefiant gas through a tube of red-hot charcoal ; and sulphuret of carbon is formed by the mutual agency of carburetted and sulphuretted hydrogen gases at high temperatures .
rTo the latter compound the author refers the production of sulphurous acid , by the combustion of coal gas in cases where , by the test of acetate of lead , it is shown to be free from sulphuretted hydrogen .
In this section of the paper the author further details some processes for the analysis of complex gaseous mixtures , which he thinks afford more accurate results , and are easier of performance than those usually practised , and which are rendered important as elucidating the nature of the gaseous products , now in common use for artificial illumination .
The second section of this lecture contains comparative experiments on the heating and illuminating powers of olefiant , coal , and oil gases , with some incidental remarks on the general properties of radiant matter , To give the light of ten ordinary wax candles for one hour it required 2600 cubic inches of olefiant gas , 4875 of oil gas , and 13,120 of coal gas .
The consumption of oxygen amounts in the first to 7800 cubic inches , in the second to 11,578 cubic inches , and in the third to 21,516 ; hence it follows that the heating powers of the respective flames being nearly similar , there will necessarily be much more heat produced by coal gas illumination than by an equal illumination of oil gas , and by oil gas more than by olefiant .
The economy of combining several flames for the production of light is strikingly illustrated by comparative experiments upon insulated and combined jets of flame .
Thus , in respect to olefiant gas , a single jet , producing the light of one candle , consumes 640 cubic inches per hour ; while a burner , with united jets of flame , giving the light of ten single jets , consumes only 2600 cubic inches , instead of the estimaated quantity of 6400 .
Some comparative experiments upon the effects of solar and terrestrial light conclude this lecture , from which it appears that , although the light of gas flames , concentrated into a very brilliant focus by means of thick plano-convex lenses , produced a very sensible heating power ; it does not in the slightest degree blacken the chloride of silver , nor does it influence the combination of chlorine with hydrogen , which is a yet more susceptible test of the direct influence of the solar rays ; on the other hand , the brilliant light occasioned by the discharge of the voltaic apparatus , presently blackens the chloride of silver ; and when a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen is exposed to its influence , it causes the production of muriatic acid , sometimes quietly and sometimes with explosion , in the manner of the solar rays .
The concentrated rays of lunar light neither possess heating powers , nor do they appear to influence chemical combination .
In conclusion the author , after adverting to the inefficiency of Mr. Leslie 's photometer , for measuring the intensity of artificial light , suggests an instrument in which the effects are measured by the expansion of the vapour of ether , renewable from a column of that fluid .

