162 Some Observations on Welwitschia mirabilis , , f Cycadofilices , Pteridosperms and Botryopteroccur , there is no satisfactory evidence of the existence of a true fern on this horizon .
In the succeeding W\lt ; estphalianseries , true ferns possibly exist in such genera as Oligocarpia , Senfleribergia , and Kidstonia .
Also the are present in Asterothccaand some allies .
In the series and Upper Coal Measures of the continent , all these groups are probably present , but the Marattiacece assume here a very important place .
The conclusion is , therefore , come to that the Cycadofilices , which long-antedated the advent of true ferns , cannot have been derived from them but are themselves the oldest type of fern-like plant at present known .
In regard to the true ferns it seems probable that they may have been derived from the Botryopleridece .
Some Observations on Welwitschia mirabilis , By H. H. W. Pearson , M.A. , F.L.S. , " Harry Bolus " Professor of Botany in the South African College , Cape Town .
( Communicated by A. C. Seward , F.R.S. Received September 9 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The material examined was obtained by the author from plants of Welwitschia growing near the German military station at Haikamchab , on the south bank of the Swakop River , 31 miles north-east of the British station at Walfish Bay .
Owing to the native rising , it was impossible to carry out the intention of spending some weeks in the country , and keeping-plants under constant observation .
The results recorded are , therefore , based on the investigations of flowers collected during a hurried visit to the Welwitschia country .
The author deals with the habitat of the plants , and describes the climatal conditions under which they grow .
Evidence is adduced in support of the view that Welwitschia is partially , if not entirely , insect-pollinated , and that the processes of fertilisation and maturation of the seed seem to be effected much more rapidly than in other Gymnosperms .
Male Flotvers.\#151 ; The author supports Strasburger 's view that the male flowers are reduced forms of an originally hermaphrodite structure .
The development of microsporangia and microspores is described .
The characters .of the pollen-grain , in which three nuclei were observed before the dehiscence The Araucciriece , Recent and Extinct .
of the anthers , are considered to indicate a closer relationship between Welwitschia and Gnetum than between Welwitschia and Ephedra .
Female Flovjers.\#151 ; Observations are recorded on the development of the macrosporangia and macrospores ; the nature of the prothallial tubes is discussed , and the conclusion is that the true interpretation of the extraordinary behaviour of the fertile end of the Welwitschia prothallus will be founded upon a comparison with the corresponding portion of the embryo-sac of Gnetum gnemon .
The Araucaviece , Recent and Extinct .
By A. C. Seward , F.R.S. , Fellow ' of Emmanuel College , and Sibille 0 .
Ford , formerly Bathurst Student of Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Received November 13 , 1905 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper includes the following sections:\#151 ; I. Introduction.\#151 ; The work was undertaken primarily with a view to ascertain whether the genera Agathis and Araucaria exhibit any of those features which are often associated with survivals from the past ; our aim was to obtain an answer to the question : Do the existing Araucarieae afford evidence of primitive characters or do they throw light on the phylogeny of the Araucarian phylum ?
II .
Distribution.\#151 ; A brief account is given of the present distribution of existing species .
Agathis is for the most part an island type .
Araucaria is met with in the same area as that occupied by Agathis , but occurs also in Chili , S. Brazil , and Bolivia ; the most widely spread species\#151 ; A. Cunninghamii\#151 ; extends over an area 900 miles long in Queensland and New ' South Wales , and is recorded from New Guinea .
Five species of the genus have been described from New Caledonia .
III .
Generic Diagnosis and Synonomy of Species.\#151 ; In this section an attempt is made to give a concise account of the more striking characteristics of each species with a list of references to descriptions and records of the several types .
IV .
Seedlings.\#151 ; The seedlings described belong exclusively to the genus Araucaria ; those of A. Bidwillii and A. imbricatd , characterised by the swollen food-storing liypocotyl , are described in detail .
In one case the steal

