426 A Further Communication on the Specificity and Action in Vitro of Gastrotoxin .
By Charles Bolton , M.D. , Besearch Scholar of the Grocers ' Company .
( Communicated by Professor Sidney Martin , F.R.S. Received January 25 , \#151 ; Read February , 1 , 1906 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratory , University College , London .
) [ Plates 16 and 17 .
] In July , 1904 , I laid before the Royal Society a preliminary communication on the production of a gastrotoxic serum .
In that communication I stated that the serum , obtained by the injection of the mucous membrane of the stomach of the guinea-pig into the rabbit , was not specific in the true sense of the word ; and further , that I was unable to demonstrate any effect of the gastrotoxin upon the gastric glands of the guinea-pig vitro , although necrosis and ulceration of the mucous membrane of the stomach were produced by injection of the serum into the living animal .
By means of more extensive experiments and improved methods I have obtained confirmatory evidence that the action of the serum is not truly specific , and have also been able to demonstrate that a definite effect upon the gastric cells is produced in vitro .
I have also succeeded in preparing a gastrotoxic serum by injecting the fresh mucous membrane of human stomach into the rabbit .
The present communication is therefore intended as a continuation of my former one .
The subject will be discussed under the following headings :\#151 ; I. Action in Vitro\#151 ; 1 .
Haemolytic action .
2 .
Action upon the gastric granules ( agglutination ) .
3 .
Action upon the soluble proteids of the cells ( precipitation ) .
4 .
Action upon the intact gastric cells ( lysis ) .
II .
Specificity of Gastrotoxin\#151 ; 1 .
Power of Different Cells to Pender the Serum Inactive .
Experiments in vivo .
Experiments in vitro .
2 .
Comparison with Entero- and Hepatotoxin and Scemolysin .
Experiments vivo .
Experiments vitro .
III .
Production of Human Gastrotoxin .
IY .
General Conclusions .
On the Specificity and Action in Vitro of Gastrotoxin .
427 I. Action Vitro .
In my first communication I stated that the blood serum of the rabbit injected with stomach cells washed free from blood became more highly haemolytic for guinea-pig 's red-blood corpuscles than it was previous to injection .
I have recently been able to demonstrate that two distinct haemolysins are produced during the process of immunisation .
The gastrotoxin has likewise the power of producing marked changes in the soluble proteids , and also in the protoplasmic granules of the gastric .cells .
It further brings about slight though definite changes in the intact .cells themselves .
1 .
Haemolytic Action .
Method.\#151 ; In obtaining the guinea-pig 's blood corpuscles to test the haemolytic power of the immunised rabbit 's serum , the blood is whipped and .centrifugalised , the serum then pipetted off and the corpuscles washed in 0'86-per-cent , salt solution several times .
A 5-per-cent , suspension of the corpuscles in salt solution is used for testing the serum .
A known quantity , usually 1 c.c. , of this suspension of corpuscles is mixed with diminishing amounts of the serum in a series of test-tubes , the volume .of fluid in each tube being made up to the same amount with salt solution .
The tubes are placed in the incubator for one hour , and then in the ice .chamber till the following morning , when the exact point at which the corpuscles are completely dissolved can be determined with ease .
As an example , the details of the following experiment which was made to \#166 ; determine the normal haemolytic power of a rabbit 's blood for guinea-pig 's corpuscles are given:\#151 ; Corpuscles ( 5 per cent , suspension ) .
Normal rabbit 's serum .
Salt solution .
After 1 hour 's incubation and ice chamber .
c.c. c.c. c.c. 1 2-75 0-25 Complete solution .
1 2 -5 ' 0-5 ) ) 1 2-25 0 75 1 2 1 )\gt ; 1 1 -75 1 25 Almost complete .
1 1 -5 1 *5 Incomplete .
1 1-25 1-75 1 1 2 5 ) 1 0-75 2 25 J ) 1 0-5 ' 2-5 ) ) 1 0-25 2 75 Fluid above corpuscles uniformly 1 1 Diluted 1 in J ro-i 1 0 -075 2 " I 2-25 | tinted .
1 .
1 times .
I 0-05 2-5 }- Fluid tinted to diminishing heights 1 LO -025 2-75 | above corpuscles .
1 1 Diluted I 100 J , ro-oi 1 0 -0075 2 J 2-25 No labing .
1 1 times .
1 0 -005 lo -0025 2*5 2 75 \gt ; \gt ; Dr. C. Bolton .
On the [ Jan. 25 , In the test-tube containing 2 c.c. serum there was complete solution of the corpuscles , and in the test-tube containing O'Ol c.c. serum there was a trace of haemoglobin diffused in the clear fluid just above the deposited corpuscles .
From the experiment it was therefore found that 2 c.c. serum of this rabbit would completely lake 1 c.c. of a 5-per-cent , suspension of guinea-pig 's corpuscles , and that a dilution of the serum of 1 in 400 was the greatest which would produce any solution at all .
It is not reliable to estimate the haemolytic power solely by finding the greatest dilution in which any solution will occur , or in other words the vanishing point of haemolysis , because this vanishing point may occur in higher dilutions in the case of a weaker serum than in the case of a stronger serum .
What is the exact reason for this phenomenon does not appear to be at all clear .
Gay ( 1 ) has , however , recently shown that in the case of high dilutions the activity of the complement may be completely inhibited .
Bashford ( 2 ) has suggested that in the higher dilutions haemolysis is interfered with by agglutination of the red corpuscles .
The haemolytic power of most rabbits is fairly constant , but as they vary somewhat within small limits , I examine the haemolytic power of each rabbit 's blood before injection .
Care must be taken to use exactly the same dilutions when the serum is subsequently tested , as the amount of dilution affects the haemolytic power of the serum .
Haemolysis.\#151 ; A few days after the first injection of guinea-pig 's stomach cells into the peritoneal cavity of the rabbit , the haemolytic power of the rabbit 's serum for guinea-pig 's red corpuscles is found to have considerably increased .
In one case before injection 2'25 c.c. serum were necessary to completely dissolve 1 c.c. of a 5-per-cent , suspension of corpuscles ; seven days after the injection 0'75 c.c. serum would dissolve the same amount of corpuscles .
This first increase of haemolysin is a true increase of the natural haemolysin of the rabbit , because its action like that of the natural haemolysin is destroyed by heat , and is not restored on adding normal guinea-pig 's serum .
In other words , guinea-pig 's complement will reactivate neither .
At this early stage a slight amount of laking , varying in extent in different cases , may be seen on reactivating the heated serum with guinea-pig 's complement , but this laking has never been to any degree extensive enough to account for the increase of haemolysis .
In the above experiment , 21 days after the first injection , it was found that 0'5 c.c. serum would completely dissolve 1 c.c. suspension of corpuscles , but on heating 2'o c.c. immune serum to 55 ' C. , and complementing with 0*25 c.c. guinea-pig 's serum , only 1906 .
] Specificity and Action in Vitro of the faintest trace of haemoglobin was seen to be diffused in the fluid immediately above the deposited corpuscles .
After the second injection , however , it is found that guinea-pig 's serum will reactivate the heated immune serum to a considerable extent .
In the above experiment six days after the second injection 0'5 c.c. heated immune serum , on being reactivated by 0*25 c.c. guinea-pig 's serum , completely dissolved the test amount of corpuscles .
I have confirmed this experiment several times , and to my mind it conclusively points to the presence of two distinct immune bodies .
( 1 ) An increase of the normal haemolysin of the rabbit which not complemented by guinea-pig 's serum .
( 2 ) A newly-formed and therefore artificial hEemolysin which is complemented by guinea-pig 's serum .
^ This has an important bearing upon the hypothesis of the multiplicity of immune bodies , which is upheld by Ehrlich and Morgenroth ( 3 ) , but is denied by other observers , notably Muir and Browning ( 4 ) , and Gay ( 5 ) working in the Pasteur Institute .
Agglutination of the red corpuscles also occurs .
2 .
Action upon the Protoplasmic Granules of the Gastric Cells .
Method.\#151 ; The method which I employ in order to demonstrate this action is an imitation of that described for haemolysin .
The mucous membrane of a guinea-pig 's stomach is first washed free from blood by sterilised salt solution , which is made to flow through a canula introduced into the thoracic aorta , the stream issuing from the inferior vena cava .
It is then scraped off , and the pulp ground up in a glass mortar .
An emulsion is made with salt " solution and centrifugalised for five minutes at a low speed .
The supernatant fluid on being pipetted off is found to contain in suspension innumerable large and small protoplasmic granules .
The granules are separated from the albuminous fluid in which they float by centrifugalisation at a high speed , and repeatedly washing until the washings give no precipitate with potassium ferrocyanide and acetic acid .
The final suspension of granules in saline solution , which is to be used , must be well agitated so as to free all the granules , and before use it must be slowly centrifugalised to ultimately remove any masses of granules or pieces of tissue which happen to be present .
A series of test-tubes is prepared , each tube containing 2 c.c. of the gastro-toxic serum in increasing dilutions .
The first tube contains undiluted serum , and the remainder dilutions from 1 in 5 to 1 in 320 .
To the contents of each tube three to five drops , according to concentration of the suspension of granules in salt solution , are added .
A control of normal saline is prepared , and also a control in which Dr. C. Bolton .
On [ Jan. 25 , 0'5 e.c. of the washings is added to 2 c.c. serum , so as to eliminate any possibility of a precipitate of albumin being thrown down from the fluid , in which the granules are suspended , by the immune serum .
The tubes are incubated for four or five hours and then examined by the naked eye and also microscopically .
Agglutination.\#151 ; A very fine deposit consisting of agglutinated granules is seen , sometimes only with a lens , at the bottom of the tubes up to a certain dilution which varies according to the strength of the serum .
The supernatant fluid contains granules in all stages of agglutination , and if the tubes are allowed to stand in the ice chamber till the next day , all the agglutinated granules are found to have settled to the bottom .
The reading of the tubes is taken at the end of four or five hours ' incubation , and controlled by that taken on the following day , both macro- and microscopically .
The reason for taking the reading twice is because bacteria are liable to be found in the fluid at the end of 24 hours , since the scraped mucous membrane cannot be sterilised by heat .
The saline control shows no such deposit or agglutination , and the control \#166 ; containing the washings shows no precipitate or deposit .
The blood of a normal rabbit shows no deposit and no agglutination , and can therefore be used as a control .
The amount of deposit is just sufficient to be accounted for by the subsidence of the granules , and on shaking it up the agglutinated granules pass into suspension , forming a delicate precipitate .
Vigorous shaking disentangles the granules , and the appearance of the solution becomes the same as it was when the granules were first added .
It is thus evident that the serum possesses an action upon the granules themselves , and that this action is similar to that of the bacterial agglutinins .
The agglutinin appears in the rabbit 's blood in small amounts about 14 days after the first injection , and can be quite easily recognised after a second injection .
Effects of Heat.\#151 ; After exposure to a temperature of 58 ' to 60 ' for half an hour the serum agglutinates gastric granules in as high a dilution as it does when unheated .
In this property of resisting heat the agglutinin resembles those of bacterial origin .
3 .
Action upon the Soluble Pr of the Gastric Cells .
Method.\#151 ; The solution of proteid is prepared by grinding up the mucous membrane of the guinea-pig 's stomach , previously washed free from blood , as described above , in a glass mortar with normal salt solution .
The emulsion is centrifugalised in order to get rid of most of the solid 1906 .
] Specificity and Action in Vitro of Gastrotoxin .
matter , but it is not possible to completely free such a solution from protoplasmic granules by cenrtifugalisation alone .
The solution is filtered through a Berkefeld filter .
The resulting filtrate , which is a perfectly clear solution like water , gives a precipitate with heat , ferrocyanide of potassium , and acetic acid , and other precipitants of proteids .
The experiment is done in the same way as that described for the agglutination test .
The gastrotoxic serum is diluted and placed in a series of test-tubes , and to the contents of each test-tube 0'5 c.c. , or even only two or three drops of the proteid solution , are added .
The tubes are placed in the incubator for four or five hours .
Controls of normal rabbit 's serum and salt solution are also prepared .
Precipitation.\#151 ; At the end of one hour 's incubation a fine precipitate has commenced to form in the solution .
This precipitate becomes coarser in appearance , and at the end of about four hours has settled to the bottom of the tube in considerable quantity , forming a deposit .
Flakes of precipitate can still be seen floating about in the otherwise perfectly clear supernatant fluid .
Under the microscope this precipitate is seen to consist of amorphous-looking masses .
If the tubes are placed in the ice-box until the next day the whole of the precipitate will be found to have settled to the bottom , leaving the supernatant fluid perfectly clear .
As in the case of the agglutination test , I record the result of the experiment both at the end of four or five hours , and also on the following day , although in this case one can exclude the presence of bacteria , since the tubes have been sterilised and plugged with cotton wool , and the gastric solution filtered .
The control tube containing normal rabbit 's serum , and that containing salt solution , show no precipitate after incubation .
It is thus perfectly clear that the gastrotoxic serum acts chemically upon the soluble proteids of the guinea-pig 's gastric cells , producing an insoluble compound .
This precipitin appears in the serum about the same time as the agglutinin .
Effects of Heat.\#151 ; As in the case of the agglutinin , exposure to a temperature of 58 ' to 60 ' 0 .
for half an hour does not in the least diminish the power of the serum to precipitate the soluble proteid , since precipitation occurs in as high a dilution of the heated serum as it does in the unheated serum .
It is well known that the effects of heat upon the action of precipitins varies considerably ; some are easily affected , whilst others are resistant .
Action upon Guinea-Pig 's Blood Serum.\#151 ; The experiment is performed in exactly the same manner as described above .
The guinea-pig 's serum is diluted 10 or more times , and 05 c.c. added to 2 c.c. gastrotoxic serum .
vol. lxxvii.\#151 ; b. 2 i Dr. C. Bolton .
On the [ Jan. 25 , The mixture is incubated , and at the end of four hours it is seen that a similar precipitate has formed .
The gastrotoxic serum may precipitate the serum in as high a dilution as it does the proteid of the gastric cells .
The gastrotoxin does not therefore act exclusively upon the proteid of the gastric cells .
4 .
Action upon the Intact Gastric Cells .
Method.\#151 ; A guinea-pig 's stomach is washed quite free from blood before removal from the body , as described above .
The superficial portion of the mucous membrane is gently scraped off with a knife and suspended in a few cubic centimetres salt solution .
The test-tube is now very carefully shaken up for a few seconds and allowed to stand for about 10 minutes , at the expiration of which time the contents will have separated into two portions:\#151 ; 1 .
A milky fluid .
2 .
Small pieces of mucous membrane , which either float on the top of the fluid or settle to the bottom .
The milky fluid is the portion used .
It is pipetted off , and on microscopic examination is found to contain in suspension free cells , masses of cells , and fragments of glands , together with broken-up cells , free nuclei , and protoplasmic granules .
It is quite easy to separate the cells , because on slow centrifulgalisation the cells and fragments of glands sink to the bottom , but the granules and nuclei remain in suspension .
The cells are washed to clear away the granules and soluble proteid .
A suspension of cells , masses of cells , and fragments of glands in salt solution is thus obtained .
The free oxyntic cells are large oval structures with well-defined granules , but the central cells , which are of a more delicate structure and contain finer granules , tend to cling together in masses and are easily broken up if too vigorous shaking is employed .
In doing an experiment three or four drops of suspension of cells are placed in 2 c.c. gastrotoxic serum in a test-tube , and the mixture incubated for four or five hours .
Controls are prepared with normal rabbit s serum and also salt solution .
Lysis.\#151 ; The deposit which has formed in the tube is examined microscopically .
I have done a large number of these experiments , and always with the same results .
I have never observed either solution oi agglutination of the cells , such as has been described in the case of othei cytotoxins ; in fact , the cells in the serum are much more separated than 1906 .
] Specificity and Action in Vitro of Gastrotoxin .
those in the salt solution , as the latter tend to stick together by reason of the mucus , which it is impossible to clear away completely .
The cells in the salt solution are quite normal in appearance , but the cells which have been exposed to the action of the gastrotoxic serum have become more or less hyaline .
The oxyntic cells are not so much affected as the central cells , the masses of which appear like pieces of floating glass .
The granules are obscured , and many of the cells look like shadows .
The nuclei can usually be seen except when the cells are massed together .
The cells are examined in the fresh state , as this seems to me to be the best for practical purposes .
I have also stained them with watery solutions of methyl green , picrocarmine , and safranin , but this does not materially assist .
The stained cells which are affected look like pieces of coloured glass .
This effect of the gastrotoxic serum appears later than those described above , and is not observed until after the expiration of about five weeks after the first injection , four or five injections having been given in the meanwhile .
The effect begins to pass off between three and four months after the first injection , the animal receiving injections at regular intervals .
The serum of a normal rabbit differs in no respect in its behaviour towards the gastric cells from salt solution .
Effects of Heat.\#151 ; A temperature of 55 ' C. maintained for half an hour does not destroy the action of the serum upon the gastric cells .
It may be weakened , but only to a slight degree .
This result points to the conclusion that a complement exists in the cells themselves , if the action is due to a cytolysin of the same construction as a hsemolysin .
Such endocellular complements have of course been described before .
I have heated the stomach to 55 ' C. for half an hour before obtaining the cells , and have found that in this case the serum produces no effect upon them .
This experiment of course proves nothing , because it is probable that the vitality of the cells is destroyed by exposure to this temperature , since cell globulin coagulates at 48 ' to 50 ' C. Removal of Gastrolytic Factor.\#151 ; By saturating the serum with washed gastric cells of the guinea-pig and allowing the mixture to stand for one hour , the gastrolytic factor is removed and the action of the serum upon the cells is destroyed .
No change is visible in the cells which have been used to saturate the serum in the space of one hour , and , since they remove the gastrolysin , it is evident that the latter becomes anchored to the gastric cells preparatory to acting upon them .
This brings the gastrolysin into line with a hsemolysin in this respect .
2 i 2 Dr. 0 .
Bolton .
On the [ Jan. 25 , II .
Specificity of Gastrotoxin .
If this serum be strictly specific for the stomach cells of the guinea-pig , it should possess chemical affinities for the stomach cells alone and for no other tissues of the body .
On injection into the guinea-pig it would then produce lesions limited to the stomach , and would also be rendered inactive by mixture with stomach cells , which would combine with the poisonous substance in the serum and take it out of solution .
Further , other tissues of the body should not possess chemical affinities corresponding to those of the stomach cells and , therefore , would not render the serum inactive by mixture with it , and sera formed against those tissues would not produce lesions in the stomach on injection .
The specificity has therefore been tested by comparing the relative power of different cells of the body of the guinea-pig to render the serum inactive , and also by comparing the effects of the serum with those of a hepatotoxic , an enterotoxic , and a haemolytic serum obtained by injecting blood .
The experiments have been conducted in vivo and in vitro .
1 .
Power of Different Cells to the Serum Inactive .
In my former communication I gave the results of a few experiments .
I have since examined this question more extensively and although the subject is far from being completed yet I will here give the results of my further investigations .
In mixing the various cells with the serum to be examined , care must be taken that enough cells are present to saturate the serum otherwise when they settle to the bottom of the tube a portion of the serum is left unexposed to their action .
The cells obtained by scraping the mucous membrane of one guinea-pig 's stomach are enough to saturate 4 c.c. serum , but the resulting mixture will not yield 4 c.c. serum back .
For a reliable experiment it is necessary to inject at least 10 c.c. serum and , therefore , to obtain this I take 12 c.c. serum and mix with it the mucous membrane of three guinea-pigs ' stomachs .
After centrifugalisation it is quite easy to obtain 10 c.c. of treated serum .
The cells of the mucous membrane of the small intestine are obtained in the same way as those of the stomach .
The liver is pounded up and passed through a tea strainer in order to prepare it .
In all cases the blood is washed out of the organ in question before it is removed from the body .
If the serum is examined in vivo after such treatment a control animal is , 1906 .
] Specificity and Action in Vitro of 435 in each case , injected with the untreated serum ; if it is examined vitro controls are likewise prepared in all cases .
All the experiments have invariably been carried through to a finish on the same day , and all the tissues and sera used were always obtained fresh on that day .
In testing the haemolytic power of the treated serum equal weights of the various organs were previously mixed with equal volumes of the serum .
The cells were allowed to stand in contact with the serum for one hour at laboratory temperature , except in the case of some of the vitro experiments , when the tubes were placed in the incubator .
Experiments in Vivo .
Mixture with Sto ?
nach Cells.\#151 ; Four experiments have been done , and in each case with the same result .
The gastrotoxin was in all the cases completely removed by the stomach cells , and the resulting serum produced no lesions in the stomach at all .
The control animals in all cases showed the usual lesions ( see Plate 16 , fig. 1 ) .
Mixture with Intestine Cells.\#151 ; In four cases the intestine cells failed to destroy the action of the serum , the lesions produced by the treated serum being as extensive as those produced by the untreated serum ( see Plate 16 , fig. 2 ) .
In three cases the action was destroyed , but the lesions in the three control animals were so slight that the toxicity of the serum must have been very low .
Mixture with Liver Cells.\#151 ; In four cases the liver cells failed to destroy the action of the serum , but in each case there was a weakening of the power of the gastrotoxin , judging by a comparison with the effects produced in the control animals ( see Plate 16 , fig. 3 ) .
In one case complete removal of the gastrotoxin resulted , and in this case the latter was of low toxic value , judging by the lesions produced in the control animal ( see Plate 16 , fig. 4 ) .
Mixture with Bed Blood Corpuscles.\#151 ; In three experiments the action of the gastrotoxin was unaffected , and in a fourth the lesion was less extensive than that in the control animal ( see Plate 17 , fig. 5 ) .
The results of these experiments clearly demonstrate that other organs of the body besides the stomach have tissue affinities for , at all events , some of the constituents of this serum , and that they can , if not invariably destroy its action , at any rate weaken it .
On the other hand , the stomach is the only organ of the body which can invariably and with uniform certainty destroy the action of the gastrotoxin .
The serum is thus not , strictly speaking , specific , although lesions are not produced in other organs than the stomach by it as a rule .
It may be , however , that one of the constituents of this complex serum is specific for the stomach to a great extent .
436 Dr. C. Bolton .
On the [ Jan. 25 , These experiments also illustrate the importance of an organ 's ability to take up a poison and render it inactive without being itself affected by it .
They likewise explain why large doses of the serum are necessary to produce the stomach lesions , since a large part of this serum must be rendered inactive by different organs of the body .
Experiments in Vitro .
Hcemolysin .
Mixture with Stomach Cells of Guinea-pig.\#151 ; After treatment with stomach cells the serum shows as high a degree of haemolytic power as it did before such treatment .
It may be higher .
At first sight this result appears to be remarkable , namely , that a cell will not remove a side chain that is thrown off in response to its injection .
In other words , that side.chains may be thrown off ' which have no affinity at all for the cells against which they are thrown off .
I have obtained further evidence of the same principle in the case of the gastrotoxin formed against guinea-pig 's stomach cells by injection of the rabbit 's stomach cells into the rabbit .
The rabbit 's stomach cells will not remove this gastrotoxin from the serum , and therefore , whether one supposes that the cytophilic affinity of the amboceptor for the rabbit 's stomach cell is or is not saturated by an anti-immune body , the fact remains that the rabbit 's stomach cell has no affinity for the side chain which is active against the guinea-pig 's cell , and which has been thrown off in response to injection of rabbit 's stomach cell .
Similarly rabbit 's stomach cells will not remove the gastrotoxin from guinea-pig-rabbit gastrotoxic serum ( see Plate 17 , fig. 6 ) .
It seems to me most likely that when a cell is absorbed side chains having an especial affinity for that cell , and which are used in destroying it , are set free and that other side chains having less affinity for it are set free in diminished amount , and also side chains having no affinity whatever for it are set free in smallest amount .
In other words , the absorbing cell throws off most of the varieties of side chains or chemical affinities of which it is possessed , the number of each being directly determined by the amount of stimulation given to the particular chemical affinity involved .
The fact that the stomach cells will not absorb the hsemolysin is important from another point of view .
I shall show later that the action of a hmmolysin , whatever its origin , is directed especially against the stomach , and also that lesions due to its action may be limited to the stomach .
Now if other organs of the body have the power of destroying the hsemolysin without themselves being affected , whilst the stomach cells will not absorb it , the result naturally follows that the hsemolysin will be free to act as it may in the capillaries of the stomach , and therefore will produce lesions .
Mixture with Liver Cells , Intestine Cells , and Led-Blood Corpuscles .
Pad ) of these three varieties of cells has the power of removing the hsemolysin from 1906 .
] Specificity and Action in Vitro of Gastrotoxin .
the serum , and therefore of rendering it incapable of dissolving the red-blood corpuscles of the guinea-pig in vitro .
Occasionally , especially in the case of the liver , a slight amount of diffused haemoglobin may be seen above the settled corpuscles .
These experiments clearly indicate that although factor of the gastrotoxic scrum may he of great importance in assisting to produce the stomach lesions in vivo , yet it is not the only one .
The reasons for this state- ?
meant are , that previous mixture with stomach cells will deprive the serum of its action in vivo , but will not prevent its laking blood corpuscles in vitro ; that previous mixture with liver cells , intestine cells , or red-blood corpuscles , although it deprives the serum of its power to lake blood corpuscles in vitro , will not with any degree of uniform certainty completely prevent its action in vivo .
Lysin.\#151 ; I have not yet attempted to compare the gastrolytic strengths of two sera by determining the highest dilutions in which any action is apparent , and therefore cannot say whether or not the action in any given case is diminished .
So far as my results go , however , they appear to indicate that , after exposure of the serum to gastric cells , its action upon such cells is destroyed , but that after exposure to liver and intestine cells and blood corpuscles the serum still produces changes in gastric cells vitro .
These in vitro experiments , so far as they go , point to the same conclusion as the in vivo experiments\#151 ; namely , that this gastric cytotoxin is not truly specific , although one or more of the bodies contained in it may be so , and that the protoplasmic poisons constituting it have a greater affinity for gastric cells than for the cells of other organs of the body .
2 .
Comparison with Hepato- and Sera and Hcemolysin .
The hepatotoxin and enterotoxin were respectively prepared by injecting the rabbit with the washed and prepared cells of the liver and intestine of the guinea-pig .
The hsemolysin was obtained by injecting red-blood corpuscles .
Experiments in Vivo.\#151 ; Each of these sera produces haemolytic lesions in the stomach , leading to destruction of the mucous membrane , the microscopic condition very closely simulating that due to gastrotoxin ( see Plate 17 , fig. 7 ) .
They are more uncertain in their action upon the stomach , however , and this action is liable to be not so strictly limited to the stomach as that of gastrotoxin .
The action of haemolytic serum was described in my previous communication .
Experiments in Vitro .
Hcemolytic Power.\#151 ; Both hepato- and enterotoxin Dr. C. Bolton .
On the [ Jan. 25 , possess the power of dissolving red-blood corpuscles to about the same degree as gastrotoxin .
They also agglutinate these cells .
Agglutination and Precipitation.\#151 ; The gastrotoxic serum produces similar effects upon emulsions of liver and intestine granules to those described in the case of emulsions of stomach granules .
Hepato- and enterotoxin not only act upon emulsions of liver and intestine granules , but they also act upon emulsions of stomach granules .
Hsemolysin obtained by injecting blood has no more power of acting upon these emulsions than normal rabbit 's blood has .
Lysin.\#151 ; Up to the present no definite hyaline transformation of gastric cells has been demonstrated as the result of the action of hepato- or enterotoxin or hsemolysin , and gastrotoxin does not appear to act upon the intact liver or intestine cells .
Removal of the Immune Body by Different Cells.\#151 ; Only one or two experiments of this nature have been done up to the present .
In the case of a rabbit which had been immunised against the red-blood corpuscles of the guinea-pig , mixture with stomach cells entirely failed to remove the hsemolysin and stomach lesions resulted on the injection of the serum ( see Plate 17 , fig. 8 ) .
Mixture with liver and intestine cells , however , rendered the same serum less powerful than before .
In the case of an enterotoxic rabbit , mixture of the serum with either stomach cells or intestine cells effected complete removal of the amboceptor .
In vitro , stomach cells completely fail to remove the hsemolytic factor from enterotoxic or hepa.totoxic serum , as was previously observed in the case of gastrotoxic serum .
Liver and intestine cells remove the haemolytic factor from entero- and hepatotoxin as they do in the case of the gastrotoxin .
The few experiments that have been made with hepato- and enterotoxin therefore confirm the view that gastrotoxin is not strictly specific .
III .
Production of Human Gastrotoxin .
Nine rabbits have been immunised against fresh human stomach mucous membrane .
Four died from septic infection , the remaining five gave positive results .
This is not quite such an easy matter as in the case of the guinea-pigs stomach , because the supply of human stomach is not constant , and three weeks or a month may elapse without an opportunity for obtaining the mucous membrane offering itself .
In addition to this the stomach cannot be used immediately after death , although on one or two occasions I have been fortunate enough to obtain some from operation cases , and it is impossible to obtain the stomach free from blood .
1906 .
] Specificity and Action in Vitro of The normal serum of the rabbit is slightly haemolytic for human blood corpuscles , but does not produce any effect upon emulsions of human stomach granules .
I have succeeded in showing that the sera of live rabbits so immunised became highly haemolytic for human blood corpuscles , and in the one case in which I tried it , solution of the corpuscles of the monkey also occurred .
The sera also agglutinated and precipitated emulsions of human gastric granules , and in one case those of the monkey also .
Whether hyaline changes are produced in the cells I have not yet determined .
IV .
General Conclusions .
The gastric cytotoxin formed in the blood of an animal in response to the injection of gastric cells thus appears to be a complex body .
After a single injection there is a great increase in the hsemolysin normally occurring in the animal 's blood , and at the same time there is found a new haemolytic immune body which is not normally present in the animal .
The latter is present in considerable amount after the second injection .
The gastrotoxin also agglutinates red-blood corpuscles .
Closely associated with the appearance of this artificial haemolytic immune body is that of an agglutinin which acts upon the gastric granules , and also that of a precipitin which acts upon the soluble proteids of the gastric cells .
By repeating the injections these substances are found to be present in the blood for several months .
Whether they are one and the same or distinct bodies I have not yet proved .
After several injections , and not less than about five weeks from the first , a further substance appears in the blood , which possesses an action upon the intact gastric cells .
In spite of repeated injections , this substance disappears from the blood in about four months .
It is probably of the same nature as a haemolysin , but this point requires proof .
The haemolytic factor is only active against blood .
The actions of the agglutinin and precipitin are not confined to the constituents of the gastric cells , but extend to other proteids of the body .
Whether there are separate agglutinins and precipitins for different proteids , or whether the same substances act upon all proteids , has not been determined ; at all events , if the same bodies are concerned in all cases , their action upon the proteids of the stomach cells is probably greater than that upon other proteids .
Whether the gastrolysin itself is truly specific remains to be proved .
The few experiments that have been undertaken in the case of the human stomach indicate that the human gastric cytotoxin is identical in constitution with that of the lower animals .
Dr. C. Bolton .
On the [ Jan. 25 , Note.\#151 ; The term " Haemolytic lesions " is used in this paper to signify the haemorrhages which are produced by the injection of a haemolytic serum ; this does not however imply that such haemorrhages are directly caused by the factor in the serum which brings about solution of the red blood corpuscles .
REFERENCES .
1 .
Gay , " Observations on the Single Nature of Haemolytic Immune Bodies , and on the Existence of so-called ' Complementoids , ' " ' Centralbl .
f. Bakt .
, etc. , ' 1 Abt .
, Originale , vol. 39 , heft 2 , 1905 , p. 172 .
2 .
Bashford , 'Journal of Hygiene , ' vol. 4 , 1904 , No. 1 , p. 40 .
3 .
Ehrlich and Morgenroth , 'Berl .
Klin .
Wehschr .
, ' 1901 , p. 569\#151 ; 598 , and 1900 , p. 681 .
4 .
Muir and Browning , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , 1904 , p. 298 .
5 .
Gay , loc. cit. DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 16 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Illustrates the removal of the gastrotoxin from the serum by treatment with guinea-pig 's stomach cells previous to its injection .
Upper Stomach.\#151 ; From a guinea-pig injected with gastrotoxic serum .
Necrosis of the mucous membrane has therefore resulted .
Lower Stomach.\#151 ; From a guinea-pig injected with the same dose of the same serum previously treated with stomach cells .
No lesion has resulted ; the stomach cells have removed the gastrotoxin from the serum by combining with it .
Ftg .
2.\#151 ; Stomach of a guinea-pig which was injected with gastrotoxic serum previously treated with guinea-pig 's small intestine cells .
The gastrotoxin has not been removed from the serum by the cells , and the stomach therefore shows necrosis of the mucous membrane .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Stomacli of a guinea-pig which was injected with gastrotoxic serum previously treated with guinea-pig 's liver cells .
The gastrotoxin has not been removed from the serum by the liver cells , and the stomach therefore shows a patch of necrosis of the mucous membrane .
The action of the serum has , however , been weakened .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; The lower stomach is that of a guinea-pig which was injected with gastrotoxic serum previously treated with guinea-pig 's liver cells .
The gastrotoxin has been removed in this case by the liver cells , and the stomach therefore shows no lesion .
The upper stomach is from the control animal , which was injected with untreated serum , and shows lesions which are relatively slight .
Plate 17 .
* Pig .
5.\#151 ; Illustrates the fact that guinea-pig 's red blood corpuscles will not remove the gastrotoxin from the serum by combining with it .
Bolton .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
Plate 16 .
[ Photographs by E. S. Wormll .
] Bolton .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
vol. Plate 17 Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 J r [ Photographs by .
E. S. Worrall .
] 1906 .
] Specificity and Action in Vitro Gastrotoxin .
441 Upper Stomach.\#151 ; From a guinea-pig which was injected with gastrotoxic serum previously treated with blood corpuscles .
Necrosis of the mucous membrane has resulted , because red blood corpuscles will not combine with the gastrotoxin .
Lower Stomach.\#151 ; From the control animal , which was injected with the same dose of untreated gastrotoxic serum , necrosis of the mucous membrane has therefore resulted .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Illustrates the fact that rabbit 's stomach cells will not remove the gastrotoxin from guinea-pig-rabbit gastrotoxic serum .
Upper Stomach.\#151 ; From the control animal , which was injected with untreated serum , and therefore shows extensive necrosis and haemorrhage .
Lower Stomach.\#151 ; From a guinea-pig which was injected with gastrotoxic serum , previously treated with rabbit 's stomach cells .
The cells have failed to remove the gastrotoxin from the solution , and lesions similar to those of the control animal have resulted .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Illustrates the haemolytic lesions which are produced in a guinea-pig 's stomach by the injection of a guinea-pig-rabbit entrotoxic serum .
As seen here , the lesions are indistinguishable from those produced by gastrotoxic serum .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Illustrates the fact that guinea-pig 's stomach cells will not remove the haemolysin from guinea-pig-rabbit haemolytic serum ( obtained by injecting red blood corpuscles ) .
Haemolytic patches are seen in the stomach , which is that of a guinea-pig .
The animal was injected with guinea-pig-rabbit haemolytic serum , prepared by injecting the red blood corpuscles of the guinea-pig into the rabbit .
Before its injection the serum was mixed with stomach cells for one hour .
The stomach cells have failed to remove the haemolysin from the serum .

