An Account of some analytical BExperiments on a mineral Production from Devonshire , consisting principally of A lumine and Water .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution .
Read February 28 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 155 .
] The mineral , of which an account is here given by Mr. Davy , was found many years ago by Dr. Wavel , in a quarry near Barnstaple .
It was then considered as a kind of zeolite ; but Mr. Hatchett , who visited the place in the year 1796 , describes it as filling some cavities and veins in a rock of soft argillaceous schistus ; and from that circumstance concluded , that it most probably did not belong to the above-mentioned genus .
Dr. Babington , from its physical characters , and from some experiments made on its solution in acids , ascertained that it was a mineral substance not yet described , and that it contained a considerable portion of aluminous earth .
This mineral is generally found in small hemispherical groups of crystals , composed of filaments radiating from a common centre , and inserted on the surface of the schistus ; : sometimes , however , it forms small veins of irregularly disposed prisms .
It is of a white colour , having sometimes a tinge of gray , or of green ; and , when beginning to be decomposed , of yellow .
Its lustre is silky ; it is generally almost opake , but sometimes semi-transparent .
It is fragile ; but its small fragments are so hard , as to be capable of scratching agate .
It has no smell when breathed upon ; it has not any taste , nor does it adhere to the tongue till it has been strongly ignited .
It does not become electrical , or phosphorescent , by heat or friction ; nor does it decrepitate before the blowpipe , but loses its hardness , and becomes quite opake .
Its specific gravity , Mr. Davy thinks , does not exceed 270 , water being considered as 100 .
The white and semi-transparent specimens of this substance are soluble in the mineral acids , and also in fixed alkaline lixivia , without effervescence ; but when coloured or opake specimens are exposed to alkaline lixivia , a small part remains undissolved .
A small transparent piece , by being exposed to the greatest heat of a forge , had its crystalline texture destroyed , and was rendered opake , but was not fused .
It now had lost more than one-fourth of its weight , and adhered strongly to the tongue ; neither water nor alcohol had any effect on this mineral .
When exposed , in a glass tube , to a heat of from 212 ?
to 600 ?
, it gave out an elastic vapour , which , when condensed , was a clear fluid , having a slightly empyreumatic smell , but not differing in taste from pure water .
The solution of this substance in sulphuric acid produced crystals in thin plates , which had the properties of sulphate of alumine , and from which , when re-dissolved and mixed with potash , octahedral crystals of alum were obtained .
The solid matter precipitated from the solution of this substance in muriatic acid , was not acted upon by carbonate of ammonia , consequently it did not contain glucine or yttria .
Several experiments were made on the opake and coloured varieties of this mineral , from which it appears that the substances which cause these varieties , are calcareous earth , manganese , and oxide of iron .
Mr. Davy then proceeded to the analysis of the mineral .
For this purpose he made use of the whitest and most transparent pieces he could obtain .
The particulars of this analysis we shall pass over ; and shall merely state that , according to its general results , 100 parts of the mineral contain , of alumine 70 , of lime 14 , of fluid 26'2 , the loss amounting to 2-4 ; which loss Mr. Davy is inclined to attribute to some fluid remaining in the stone after the process of distillationhaving found , from several experiments , that a red heat is not sufficient to expel all the matter capable of being volatilized .
Mr. Davy then made some experiments to determine whether any portion of fixed alkali existed in this mineral , but no indications of such alkali could be observed .
The fluid obtained by distilling several different specimens of this mineral was similar in its properties ; the only test of the presence of acid matter in it was litmus paper ; and in some instances the effect upon this paper was scarcely perceptible .
Mr. Davy made several experiments to determine the nature of the above acid matter , but without success .
It is , however , he says , evident that it is not any one of the known mineral acids : he is also disposed to believe , that it is not an essential component part of the mineral , but that , as well as the oxide of manganese , the oxide of iron , and the lime , it is only an accidental ingredient .
Hence the mineral , when in a state of purity , must , he thinks , be considered as a chemical combination of about 30 parts of water , and 70 of alumine .
The diaspore , which has been examined by M. Vauquelin , loses 16 or 17 parts in the 100 by ignition , and contains nearly 80 parts of alumine , and 3 of oxide of iron .
It is supposed by M. Vauquelin to be a compound of alumine and water .
But its characters are very different from those of the mineral here described ; and the nature of the part volatilized by heat has not yet been ascertained .
A mineral similar to that here treated of has been found near St. Austle in Cornwall ; and Mr. Davy has been informed that , according to an analysis of it made by the Rev. William Gregor , it appears to consist of similar ingredients .
Dr. Babington has proposed to call this mineral by the name of Wavellite , from the gentleman who discovered it in Devonshire ; but if a name founded upon its chemical composition should be preferred , Mr. Davy thinks it may be denominated Hydrargillite .

