The Croonian Lecture .
On the Structure and Uses of the Membrana Tympani of the Ear .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read Nov. 7 , 1799 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 1 .
] THE part of the ear which was the subject of the present lecture , has always been considered as a common membrane , which , being stretched or relaxed by means of muscles belonging to the malleus , became fitted in its various degrees of tension to convey the immense variety of external sounds to the internal organ .
Though this description have been generally adopted , yet it will appear upon further inquiry that , owing no doubt in a great measure to the extreme minuteness of the part , the structure and some of the properties of this membrane had not as yet been properly investigated .
And the discovery here announced is brought forward with the greater propriety on this occasion , as it affords a new instance of the application of muscular action , which may ultimately account for certain phenomenon in the sense of hearing in a more satisfactory manner than has hitherto been proposed .
This discovery we owe in some measure to the opportunity Mr. Home had to dissect the ear of an elephant , where the parts are so much larger even than they ought to be in proportion to the size of the animal , that the structure of this membrane , which is usually denominated the Drum of the Ear , becomes obvious even to the naked eye .
On close examination it was found , that instead of being an uniform coat or skin , a great number of muscular fibres , which seem incorporated in it , pass along its texture in a radiated manner from the rim which surrounds it , towards the handle of the malleus , with which the central part of the membrane is firmly connected .
Having thus been put upon the scent , the membrane in the human ear was carefully separated from its contiguous parts , and being viewed in a microscope , magnifying 23 times , exhibited the same texture , the muscular fibres appearing similar throughout the whole surface ; without any central tendons as in the diaphragm , and chiefly forming the internal layer , on which side they appeared most conspicuous .
The blood-vessels of this membrane , the number of which is proportionate to its action , resemble in a great measure those of the iris , and are nearly as numerous .
They anastomose with one another in a similar manner , and their general dissection is from the circumference of the membrane to the handle of the malleus .
From near this handle a small trunk sends off branches in a radiated manner , which likewise anastomose with those that have an opposite course .
This correspondence in the number and distribution of blood-vessels , between the membrana tympani and the iris , is given as a proof of that membrane being endowed with muscular action ; and indeed the author henceforth speaks without hesitation of a radiated muscle distinct from the membrane .
Having examined the structure of this muscle in various animals , Mr. Home found the application of a principle laid down in a former lecture , namely , that while the organization necessary for muscular contraction may in some measure exist in an apparent membrane , yet wherever muscular action is to overcome a resistance , a fasciculated structure becomes absolutely necessary .
Thus in birds , where from the smallness of the organ the resistance is very trifling , this membrane is of a simple structure , like the coat of the hydatid ; whereas in the elephant the fibres forming fasciculi are very distinct and obvious .
This muscular structure in the membrana tympani serves to explain various phenomenon in hearing , which were not hitherto clearly understood .
It is observed that the sounds produced by percussion on an extended membrane like the drum and tambourine , cannot but be imperfect ; since , the tension being from side to side , the instrument may be considered as consisting of a number of parallel strings varying in their lengths like the parallel chords of a circle , and bearing congequently no musical proportion to each other .
Such also must have been the imperfection of the membrana tympani , according to the received opinion of its structure : but after the present discovery it will appear obvious that the radiated muscle proceeding from the circumference of the circle to a common centre , produces a system of strings all equal in length , and uniformly varying in musical effect , according to their tension .
In order to illustrate the manner in which this radiated muscle adapts the membrana tympani to different sounds , the author finds it necessary to enumerate the more important parts of the organ , and to point out the use commonly assigned to each of them .
Without entering into this detail , we can here only observe that , availing himself of the present discovery , he compares the tensor and radiated muscles of the membrana tympani to a monochord , of which the membrane is the string , the tensor muscle the screw giving the necessary tension to make the string perform its proper scale of vibrations , and the radiated muscle acting upon the membrane like the moveable bridge of the monochord , adjusting it to the vibrations required to be produced .
Thus the combined effects of the action of these muscles give the perceptions of grave and acute tones ; and in proportion as their original conformation is more or less perfect , so will their action be , and consequently the perceptions of sound which they communicate .
This mode by which the membrana tympani is capable of being adjusted to certain tones , or rather musical keys , will it is thought fully account for the difference between a musical ear , and one which is too imperfect to discriminate different notes with any degree of nicety .
This delicacy of the ear , as it is found to depend on muscular action , may therefore be in some measure acquired , and is likewise liable to be impaired by illness or other accidental causes , of which some striking instances are here related .
In endeavouring to explain the uses of the more internal parts of the ear , considerable advantage , it is thought , may be derived from classing them in two divisions , namely , those which are formed for the purpose of receiving impressions conveyed through the medium of liquids or of solid substances ; and those adapted to receive impressions made by the impulses of an elastic fluid such as common air .
The former are the ears of fish , which are found to have fewer parts than those of birds , quadrupeds and man ; but in the latter we find that the organ is susceptible of impressions by both vehicles .
Thus men can hear the ticking of a watch by applying it to the forehead , and shutting the ears : the sound in this instance being evidently conducted through the bones of the skull , it appears manifest that only the interior parts of the ear , namely , the vestibulum and semicircular canals , co-operate to produce this sensation ; and these in fact are the principal parts of that organ in fish .
In birds the membrana tympani has no tensor muscle to vary its adjustment , and hence their scale of sounds cannot descend so low as in the human ear .
The cochlea , which has hitherto been considered as the part of the organ by which sounds are modulated , is also wanting in birds , which , however , are known to have a singular nicety in discriminating inarticulate sounds ; and hence , as well as on account of its being filled with water instead of air , which renders it less capable of modifying sounds , it is manifest that this is not the real use for which the cochlea is destined .
What is its precise use , as well as of the semicircular canals , remains yet to be investigated .
Lastly , it is observed that in the elephant there is no bony septum separating the cells of the skull belonging to one ear from those which open into the other , but a free communication exists between them : from this , the enlarged proportions of the organ and some other circumstances here mentioned , it is inferred that the sense of hearing must be quicker in this than in any other animal .
And in fact some curious instances are mentioned which seem fully to confirm this assertion .

