346 On the Electromagnetic Unit of Electricity .
[ June 21 rises from 0 ' to 34 ' , the melting point of the decahydrated salt Na2SO4.10H2O .
Thereafter the solubility diminishes till the temperature of 120 ' is reached .
From 120 ' to 140 ' we find the change if any is inappreciable , but at 160 ' a notable increase of solubility is observed , which is still further increased at 180 ' and at 230 ' , the highest temperature reached .
Parts by weight of anhydrous sulphate of sodium dissolved by 100 parts of water at 0 ' .
34 ' .
100 ' .
120 ' .
140 ' .
160 ' .
180 ' .
230 ' .
5 78 -8 42-7 41 *95 42-00 42*9 44 25 46*4 In view of these and other facts , theories of hydration can no longer be admitted as competent to explain the act of solution in all or even more than a few cases .
X. " On the Determination of the Number of Electrostatic Units in the Electromagnetic Unit of Electricity .
" By J. J. Thomson , M.A. , Fellow and Assistant Lecturer of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of some experiments which have been made during the last two years in the Cavendish Laboratory , -Cambridge .
These experiments were made to determine " v " by comparing the electrostatic and electromagnetic measures of the capacity of a condenser .
The condenser consisted of two cylinders fitted with guard-ring pieces .
The electrostatic measure of the capacity was calculated from the dimensions of this condenser .
The electromagnetic measure of the capacity was determined by a very slight modification of the method given in S 775 of Maxwell 's " Electricity and Magnetism .
" In this method the condenser has to be repeatedly charged and discharged by a commutator , and a very elaborate commutator would be required to work the guard-ring part of the condenser ; for this reason the capacity of the guard-ring condenser was experimentally compared with the capacity of another condenser without a guard-ring , the capacity of the latter being altered until the capacities of the two condensers were equal .
The electromagnetic measure of the capacity of the condenser without a guard-xing was then determined by Maxwell 's method .
The ratio of the 1883 .
] Molecular Weights of the Substituted Ammonias .
347 electrostatic to the electromagnetic measure of the capacity is v'~ .
The result of the experiments , using Lord Rayleigh 's value of the ohm , was that " v"=2'963 X 1010 in C.Gi .
S units .
XI .
" On the Molecular Weights of the Substituted Ammonias .
No. I. Triethylamine .
" By James Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , Cambridge , and Alexander Scott , M.A. , D.Sc .
Received June 21 , 1883 .
The conduct of the experiments relating to a new determination of the atomic weight of manganese recently communicated to the Society* has led us to prosecute some further studies in this field of leseaich .
The following note deals with the preliminary results arrived at regarding the molecular weight of a member of a class of bodies which , strange to say , have not been previously selected for accurate determinations of this kind .
The substituted ammonias are peculiarly fitted to reveal the effect of small differences from whole numbers in the conjoint values of the atomic weights of carbon and hydrogen .
By selecting tertiary amines of high molecular weight it is possible to integrate these small positive or negative increments through the increase in the number of carbon and hydrogen atoms in the substituting radical .
Theie is also a special advantage in employing the fully saturated ammonium derivatives for experiment .
Theoretically it ought to be possible to ascertain by this method whether the atomic weight of hydrogen differs from unity , provided the atomic weight of carbon be accepted as sufficiently well defined , from other methods of investigation .
The difficulty of getting perfectly pure substances for such work , together with the hygroscopic character of the ammonium compounds , introduces serious difficulties , and for the purpose of testing the accuracy of the proposed method , the preliminary experiments have been made with triethylamine .
The triethylamine employed was made by the action of chloride of ethyl on ammonia , and was transformed into the bromide of tetraethyl-ammonium .
This bromide of the fully substituted ammonium was \#166 ; decomposed by dry distillation into triethylamine and bromide of ethyl , and the base separated in the form of the chloride .
The free base was separated from the chloride " with caustic potash , and aftex careful drying with anhydrous oxide of potassium was subjected to fractional distillation .
The portion boiling between 90 ' and 91 ' was converted into the hydrobromate and its equivalent relation to * " On the Atomic Weight of Manganese , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 35 , p. 44 .

