III .
" Ovibos mnoschatus ( Blainville ) .
" By W. BOYD DAWK-INS , M.A. , F.G.S. Communicated by Prof. HUXLEY .
Received May 9 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) Ovibos c zoschatus , more commonly known as the musk-ox , has been described under different names by -naturalists as their opinions fluctuated concerning its affities with the ox , buffalo , or sheep .
It is called the musk-ox by all the arctic explorers , Bos moschatus by Schreber , Zimmermann , Pennant , and Cuvier , musk-buffalo allied to the Bubalus Caffir of South Africa by Professor Owen , Ovib os oschatus by De Blainville , Desmnarest , Eichardson , and M. Lartet .
That the latter four naturalists are right in the place they assign to it in the zoological scale , intermediate between Ovis and Bos , is proved both by the natural history and the osteology of the animal .
The absence of a muffle and dewlap , the hairiness of the nostrils , the shortness of tail and smallness of car , and the possession of two teats only , separate the animal from Bos and connect it with Ovis , while the large size and long gestation of nine imonths diflerentiate it from the latter animal .
Precisely the same evidence is afforded by its skeleton .
In the skull , the tapering of the anterior portion , the prominence of the orbit , the verticality of the facial plate of the maxillary , the presence of a larmier , the squareness of the basisphenoid , the presence of the occipito-parietal suture o !
the coronal surface ; in the dentition , the sharpness of the costsm 1,2 , and 3 , and the absence of the accessory column from the inner interspace of the lobes of the upper teeth are amonig the chief ovine characters , and throughout the skeleton the same ovine tendency is manifested .
With the exception of the great deyelopment of horns , there is no point in 516 [ ... May 23 , common between it and Buibalus Caffir .
The encroachment of horncores or parietals differentiate it from the sheep .
The animal ranges at the present day from Fort Churchill , lat. 600 ?
, northwards as far as the arctic sea , and eastwards as far as Cape Bathurst , lat. 71 ?
, living for the most part on the " barren grounds , " and never penetrating far into the woods .
In geological times , however , it had a far greater range eastwards and southwards .
In the pleistocene river-gravels lying on the solid ice in Eschscholtz Bay , in Russian America , it is found associated with the elk , reindeer , bison , horse , and mammoth .
Traces of the animal ranging further to the east are afforded by the skull found on the banks of the Yena , in lat. 70 ?
, long .
135 ? .
Dr. Pallas 's discovery of two skulls on the banks of the Obi brings the animal still closer to the borders of Europe .
All three skulls were found in the " Tundas , " or treeless " barren grounds " of Siberia , in the same series of gravels which afford such vast stores of fossil ivory .
In Germany it has been found in three localities ; and in France ; in the valley of the Oise , it is associated with flint implements of the St. Acheul type , and with the uammoth and Eleplhas antigqzs .
It has also been found in the reindeer caves of Perigord , under circumstances that prove beyond doubt that the animal was eaten by the reindeer folk .
In England it has been found in three gravel-beds of late pleistocene age , near Maidenhead , at Freshford near Bat , h , and at Greenstreet-green near Broinley .
In 1866 the author dug it out of the lower brickearth of Crayford in Kent , where it was associated with Rhzioeeros ]eqyar1tinus , sR .
leptorhinus ( Owen ) , and Elephas antigqus .
The skull in this latter case beloinged to a remarkably fine old male .
Thus its present limited range in space contrasts most strongly with its wide range in pleistocene times through North Siberia and central Europe , north of a line passing through the Alps and Pyrenees .
Its association with animals of a temperate or else southern zone is to be accounted for by its having been driven from its usual haunts by an unusually severe winter .
The rarity of its remains proves that it was not so abundant as those animals which are associated with it in France , Germany , and Britain .
Professor Leidy figures and describes two fossil skulls most closely allied to Ovibos mnosciatus , from Arkansas and Ohio , under the name of Boothzerum cavif'ons and B. bonbiffrons ; they are , however , most probably the male and female of the same species .
They differ from Ovibos mnoschataus only in the direction of their horn-cores , and in their bases meeting and becoming fused on the coronal surface of the male skull .
The horn-cores are supported both by the frontals and parietals .
In other respects they present the same ovine affinities as Ovibos , and certainly belong to the same genus .
517 1867 .
]

