]\gt ; 1896 .
] ntific )Jonle .
X. ' : Report of the Examination of some of the Seientific employed by the late Dr. Joulc By J. D. CHORLTON , B.bc .
, Joule .
Communicated by Professor ARTHUR ScHUST ] ] .
Received Iarch17 , Having been appointed by tho Royal Society to the Joule Scholarship , and usted with the examination of some of the instruments employed by Jonle in his scientific work , I called upon his son , Mr. B. A. Joule , in whose possession were stlch of the instruments as had not already been presented to the South Kensington Museum or other places .
Mr. very kindly placed the at my disposal , and I am much indebted him for the trouble he took in .
his lllouse for anything that might have been laid by .
Most the uments I removed to the Physical at Owens ] , where there were greater facilities for examining them .
Throughout the research I have been greatly aided by the volumes issued by the Physical Society of Londoll , in which all Joule 's scientific papers are collected .
and in every case I have referred to the pages iu these volumes where a complete description of the instrument under examination may be found , with accompanydiagrams .
The following list comprises all the mole important instruments remaining at Sale:\mdash ; Two electric current meters .
The last apparatus for the mechanical equivalent of heat .
An electromagnetic engine .
A new balance .
A air exhauster .
A new form of dip circle .
Two air pumps .
Several thermometers and am instrnment for thermometers .
Two galvanometers .
All of these uments were eithor made by Joule himself his design and under his directions .
Two Electr Current Meters ( ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 .
pp. 584\mdash ; 589 , also p. 542 ) .
As a good deal of discussion has lately been on about ) diflerence in the value of obtained by different mebhods , it seomed important to find the value in our present units of the constant of the 346 Mr. J. D. Chorlton .
Examination of some of the [ Mar. 19 , current meter which used in his determination of the equivalent of heat by the electrical method , and it would be interesting either to confirm the which Joule gives , or to apply some correction to it in case the constant were found to be rather diflerent from that assumed by him .
I found two current meters at Sale , one of them being the meter used in the determination of the equivalent of heat from the thermal effects of electric .
This meter is contained in an oblong wooden box , 4 .
in length and about 18 in .
in height and width , the balance beam is made of wood , and is suspended from the sides of the box by stretched wires which , after passing along each side of the beam , suspend a flat horizontal coil of wire 1 .
in diameter ; above and below this coil are placed two fixed coils exactly similar to the suspended one .
The current is passed through the coils in such a way that the top coil attracts while the lower repels the movable one , eIectric communication with which is ingeniously made by means of the suspending wires .
At the other end of the beam is a counterpoiss which brings the movable coil into a position about midway between the two fixed coils when no currenc is passing .
When an electric current is passed suspended coil is attracted upwards and is brought back into its former position by means of weights placed on a shelf attached to it .
Joule says of this balance : " " The strength of a current can in this be determined in absolute measure ; for the area of each of the three coils being called , the weight required to counterpoise the force with which the suspended one is urged the force of gravity , and the length of wire in each of the coils the current correction ) , the correction incipally due to the distance between the fixed coils .
In my instrument , in which this distance is 1 in .
, the diameter of the coils being 12 in .
and their interior core 4 in .
, this correction was proved by experiment to be " " ( ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 543 ) .
Owing , however , to the difficulty in obtaining an exact measure of the distance between the fixed coils , Joule abandoned this resuIt and found the constant of the instrnment by comparing it with a tangent galvanometer .
In order to -determi1Ie this constant , I passed a current ough this balance and through one of Lord Kelvin 's current balances in Physical Laboratory at Owens College placed in series with it .
Thus , if be the weight necessary to bring back the movable coil 1896 .
] Scientifc Instruments used by the late .
Joute .
347 the position it occupied before the passage of the \mdash ; that is , into a position midway between the two fixed coils\mdash ; and be the current as measured by the " " Kelvin Balance then , since the attracting force between two coils depends on the square of the current , or where is the constant of the instrument .
following observations were made : Curlent .
Weight grams ampere , , , , 09767 , , 09764 , , It will be noticed that the value of the constant slightly , but fairly regularly , decreases as the CUl.rent decreases .
I 1toticed this decrease in all the experiments I made with both this balance and the newer one , but was unable to find any explanatiou .
I do not think it could be due to the wood of Joule 's balances , for I tested ] ghly for and could find none , nor could the electrostatic force the coils be the cause , for this , on calculation , appears to be quite eciable .
For reading the balance a needle is provided fixed horizontally into the end of the balance beam , the end of this needle oscillates in frollt of a ated scale attached to one of the sides of the box , the observer 's eye being placed to a small hole cut in tho opposite side of the box and thus any errors of parallax avoided .
By this means the weight on the lnovable coil could be easily adjusted to less than 5 milligrams , and as the varies with the square of the current , the half only of any error made in the determination of the weight appears in the ) of the current .
On reference to the above table it appears that with this balance 10 grams means about 3 amperes , so that 3 amperes may be measured correctly to 1 part in 4,000 ; it is also evident that as the ' varies }with the square of the current the balance is much more accurate large than for small currents .
A source of some trouble is a of the zero , is to say , the counterpoise at the end of the beam has to be frequently adjusted in orde1 to bring the movable coil into its zero position halfway between the two fixed coils .
I may mention that there is no accurate method of the suspended coil exactly into this mean position , but by experiment I found that the exact point fixed upon as zero is immatel.ial , the value obtained for constant being the same , whatever point , within certain limits , be chosen as zero .
V0L .
348 Mr. J. D. Chorlton .
Examination of some of the [ Mar. 19 , The second electric current meter was constructed some years later , and while its design is almost exactly similar to the one just described , its construction in every way more finished and elaborate , and as it is considerably smaller than the old balance ( exactly the size ) , it is more convenient to work with .
A very complete description of this balance is given in the 'Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , pp. , it is , therefore , unnecessary to describe it at length here , I will only mention that a great improvement is made by the use of copper tape instead of copper wire in he coils , the flat tape does not take up nearly as much space as the wire , so that two coils made of tape will many more revolutions and consequently will attract each other more stro1lgly than two coiIs of the same diameter made of wire .
may be seen from the following determination of the constant by means of the Kelvin balance .
Cul.rent .
Weight .
Constant .
amperes grams ampere , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , Here again the steady decrease of constant with decrease of current is noticeable .
From the above table it will be seen that when 3 amperes are ssing , the weight needed to restore equilibrium is about 25 grams , hile it will be remembered that in the former ance o grams were needed , and as in this case also the weights could be adjusted to 5 milligrams or less , 3 amperes may be measured with this balance correctly to 1 part iu 10,000 .
Joule 's determination of the value of by the electrical method undertaken at the request of the on Electric Standards appointed by the British Association ; the result he obtained was published in the B.A. Report , ndee , 1887 .
He experienced a great deal of trouble in measuring the current because of the difficulty he found in determining the exact value of the earth 's horizontal magnetic force at the time and place of the experiment .
The arran .
cment he finally adopted was to pass the current through a taxJgent galvanomter and then through an electric current meter placed in series with ) , the current being measured by the alvanometer and the current meter being used to determine the 's horizontal magnetic intensity ; this was effected as follows:\mdash ; 1896 .
] nstruments used by the lafe Dr. Joule .
349 " " Many careful observations of the horizontal intensity by an improved method on and Weber 's system were made alternately with observations of the deflections of a tangent alvanometer and the weighings of the current meter when the same currents travel.sed each in succession .
Tben calling the horizo tal intensity , the angle of deflection , and the weighing , there obtained a constant " " Hence with these " " The experiments for the deterlnination of the horizontal intensity could be effected in a few minutes ( ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 545 .
) Of course , as soon as is known the current is easily measured by the tangent galvaIlometer , for we have the usual expression Current where is the radius of the galvanometer coil and deflection of the needle .
Now , since Joule found the constant tall while the galvanometer coil , measured in several places with a standard fool rule , had a mean radius the current ' or The units are grains and feet ; on conversion to grams and centimeters amperes , that is to say , the constant of the balance is In the case of the balance , found the constant by same method to be On referring back to the examination of the current balance , it will be seen that for a current of about 3 amperes or amperes , this being the cllrrent at which JouIe generally worked in these experi350 Mr. J. D. Chorlton .
Examination of some of the [ Mar. 19 , ments , the constant of the old balance as determined by means of the " " Kelvin balance\ldquo ; is , while that of the new balance is So that in the case of the old balance I find a constant which is greater than that given by Joule by parts in a thousand , while the constant of the new balance seems to come out about parts in a thousand less than the value given by Joule .
My ation of the constant of the llew balance is , however , not to be relied upon , because I found it exceedingly difficult to eplace the upper fixed coil , which had become unwound and had to be removed im order to be rewound in exactly the same position as it formerly occupied , so that the distance between the two fixed coils may have been altered , an ma ng an and in makin an experiment to the amouut of error which a slight increase in the distance ( en betw the two fixed coils would be likely to produce in the constant , I found that on increasing the distance , which is about 1 in .
, by 1/ 16 of an inch , an inc.rease of about 1 per cent. appeared in the co1lstan Fortunately , although the upper coil of the old balance had also become loose , there was no difficulty in replacing it exactly in its former position .
The " " Kelvin " " balance had been tested by silver electrolysis some months previously , and found to be correcti , and in order to assnre myself that it had not changed in the meantime , I afterwards again tested it , with the same result .
As no trace of could be detected in the " " Joule \ldquo ; meter , it would therefore seem that some error must have been made in the measurement of the radius of the galvanometer or in the determination of H. Unfortunately , on examining the tangent galvanometer , I found that the coil used in these experiments , which consisted of a single circle of 1/ 10 in .
copper wire , had got displaced , and could not be replaced exactly in its former position ; in fact the measuremen of the diameter would have been liable to an error of 1 per cent. I have not , then , been able definitely to discover an error in any of 's measurements , and can only indicate the probability that on account of error either in the 1ileasurement of the radius of the galvanometer or in the determination of the earth 's horizontal magnetic force , the curl'ents in these experiments were estimate a about parts in a thousand less tham their real value , and that as the heat developed depends on the square of current , the value of given by these iments may be too small by five parts in a thousand .
The experiments are divided into three series .
The obtained the first series was ' , from the secon from the third 782.4 ; but Joule says that the extra precaution taken in the as last series entitles the last figure to be taken as the result of the inqu The value then obtained for from these experiments was 1896 .
] ScientiJic Insfruments nsed by the late Dr. Joulc .
foot-pounds at Greenwich at a temperature of , bnt this assumes the B.A. ohm ( centimeters of mercury ) to be correct .
If we take the present unit ( centimeters of mercury ) , this reduces to , which agrees very fairly with Joule 's last value , at , obtained from the friction of water .
If , however , Joule 's current meter measured wrongly , as now seems probable , by abou parts in a thousand , it would seem that the equivalent of heat derivod by Joule from the electrical method must be taken as and Joule 's results therefore seem to agree with those of more recent experiment in pointing to a systematic discrepancy between the value obtained for by mechanical methods on the one hand and electrical methods on the other .
The thermometer used in the experiments has been examined by ofessor Schuster , and his ' Phil. Mag June , 1895 ) is that if represent the reading on the Joule thermometer , and the reading on the nitrogen thermometer of the Bureau International , then .
Joule 's value for equivalent then from ths electrical method is foot-pounds at Greenwich on the scale of the " " Paris\ldquo ; nitrogen thermometer at a temperature of .
Professor Schuster and .
Gannon , at the close of their paper on " " The Determination of the Specific Heat of Water in Terms of the International Electric Units\ldquo ; ( ' Phil. Trans vol. 186 , , pp. 415\mdash ; 467 , compare the values obtained for by diflerent imenters , and give a table of equivalents in footpounds at Greenwich at , referred to the " " Paris " " nitrogen thermometer .
Joule .
Rowland .
Gri[Iiths .
Schuster and Gannon .
Introducing the value obtained by Micelescu , which is given by Schuster and Ganuon as at , and which , we take as the temperature correction the mean of the values given by Rowland and Mr. E. H. Griffiths Phil. Trans , reduces to at , the table becomes:\mdash ; Mechanical method .
Electrical method .
Joule .
Rowland .
Miculescu .
Griffiths .
Schuster\amp ; Gannon .
Joule .
The first three rlumbers were obtained by mechanical methods , the last three by electrical methods .
Schuster and Mr. Gannon remark that Rowland 's number eferred to the Paris nitrogen thermometer lvould probably be smaller by one unit ; this being the case , the higher values given by the electrical as compared with the mechanical methods are very noticeable .
352 Mr. J. D. Chorlton .
Examination of some of the [ Mar. 19 , Joule 's value subject to the above correction assumes the electrochemical equivalent of silver to be ; if the correction be neglected , his value is obtained from purely electro-magnetic measurements , and is , closely agreeing with his value obtained from frictional experiments .
The values of Griffiths and Schuster and Gannon also depend on silver electrolysis .
Tloe last for Determining the iEquivalent of Heat ( ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 1878 .
Part ; also ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , pp. ) .
Joule gives the following account of ths circumstances which induced him to undertake the construction of this apparatus:\mdash ; " " The Committee of the British Association on Standards of Eleotrical ResistaIlces , judged it desirable that a fresh determination of the echanical equivalent of heat should be made , by observing the thermal effects due to the transmission of eIectrical cun.ents through resistances measured by the they had issued , I undertook experiments with that view , resulting in a larger figure , , than that which I had obtained from the friction of fluids , .
The only way to account for the discrepancy was to admit the existence of error either in my thermal experiments or in the unit of resistance .
A Committee of Sir Wm. Thomson , Professor P. G. Tait , Professor Clark Maxwell , Professor B. Stewart , and myself were appointed at the meeting of the British Association in 187.0 , and with the funds placed at my disposal I charged with the present investigation for the purpose of giving greater accuracy to the results of the direct method ( ' Colle Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 632 ) .
The method adopted was to revolve a paddle in a suspended vessel of water , and to find the heat produced , the work being measured by the force required to hold the vessel from turning , and the distance run as referred to the point at which the force was appIied .
The result of the paper was to confirm tho earlier and to show that the B.A. ohm was in all probab-lity wrong to extent of per cent. , the final value of the equivalent by this method being The apparatus is intact in all essential points , and it is , I the ntention of Mr. Joule to send it shortly to the South Kensington Museum .
An Jiilectro-magnebic Engine ( ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , pp. 1\mdash ; 3 ) .
This little instrument is of interest because it was the occasion of the first paper Joule ever published which appeared in 'Sturgeon 's 1896 .
] Scientific Instruments used by the late Dr. Joule .
Annals of ectricity , ' vol. 11 , p. 122 , inted to form first bhe coIlected papers .
The paper is dated January 8 , , so that this machine must be one of the first electric motors intended for practical use .
I did not attempt to test the efficiency of the motor because round the magnet was broken in scveral places , and to have pieced it together would have involved the unwinding and -winding of the whole of the wire on the motor .
A New Balcmce ( ' Collecbed Papers , ' vol. 1 , pp. 552\mdash ; 561 ) .
A description of instrument was read before the hncheste Literary and Philosophical Society on March 20 , 1886 , and may be found in the ' of the .
The balance beam is suspended by a steel wire fastened to the sides of the containing box , a leadcn is leb into one end of the beam , from other end is slung a for the object to be , and for the weights ; the centre of the box lid is cnt out and roofed by means of a rectangular lass box ; from the centre of the upper edge of the beam there projects vertically a light wooden which carries a small glass vessel for containing lead shot , by the ition of which the stability of beam may be decreased to any required extent ; to the extremity of this rod a needle is fastened as an index , and in front of a graduated paper scale fixed on one of the sides of the glass box referred to ave .
I found the balance intact , with the exception that the steel wire supporting the beanl was broken ; this , however , easily replaced .
The feature of the balance is its exceeding simple and inexpensive construction ; made as it is almost entirely of wood , it could be constructed by anyone a little skill the use of tools fo very ling cost .
The sensibility of the balance of course depends entirely upon the amount of in small glass bottle referred to .
The following numbers were obtained ) the sensil ) ility h been increased as far as was possible consistently with stability .
Posilion of of ) ointer . .
1st cxpt .
2nd expt .
expt .
diffsrence .
grams 1.3 Mr. J. D. Chorlton .
Examination of some of the [ Mar. 19 , So that the average difference for 1 centigram increase of weight is scale divisions , and as each division can be read to tenths , an article can be weighed by the balance to 1 milligram .
Joule says that he could weigh with this balance to the hundredth of a grain , that is to the fifteen hnndredth part of a gram .
To test this I made a number of determinations of the weight of a glass cube which had been previously weighed by an Oertling balance and ascertained to be grams in weight .
The mean of these determinations gave a value of grams , agreeing with the value obtained by the Oertling balance to less than half a milligram .
Some of the values , however , differed from the mean by as much as 2 milligrams .
Still , this is a remarkable resuIt for a balance made entirely of wood .
Mercurial Air-exhauster Collected Papers , An account of this air-pump was rea\amp ; before the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society ( vol. 12 , p. 57 ; vol. 13 , p. 58 ; , p. 12 .
The has been altered and improved several times , as may be seen from Joule 's papers ; the form in which I found it at Sale is , I think , the final form it took after all improvements had been made .
It consists of a large , this le-shaped , glass vessel , a , ono end of which is connected by an india-rubber tubing to a glass globe con- taining mercury ; the entrance tube , , is blown out at , and the bulb so formed is ground into the neck of the thistle glass , so as to make a joint which is impervious to mercury .
To collect the pumped gases , Joule finally used an inverted glass vessel , , fitted with india rubber cork , through which passes the entrance tube , , and the exit tube , .
The entrance tube should be connected at to the vessel to be exhausted , and at to a mercury manometer , which I was unable to find .
The glass work is supported by a wooden post , 7 .
high , which Joule , when working with the pump , clamped to the edge of a table .
The method of working the pump is first to raise the globe , to the upper position , , whereupon the mercury rnns down , fills the vessel , , lifts the bulb at , and fills the upper part of the stle .
glass , driving the air out by the exit tube is then lowered to the position , whereupon tho mercury runs out of back into , and again fills with air from the entrance tube ; this operation is repeated until the pressure in the manometer reaches the lowest limit obtainable with the pump .
The funnel , , is used to introduce sulphuric acid for removing aqueous vapour .
Joule gives the following list of lowest pressures obtainable with sulphuric acid of various strengths:\mdash ; 396 .
] Scientific used by the late Dr. Joule .
Sulphuric acid .
Water .
1 Pressure in inches of mercury .
Inappreciable .
inch at 70 0 .
, 55 On examination the india-rubber tubing proved to be quite rotten , and had to be replaced , and also as was stated before , the manometer was missing .
I did not make any experiment to test the pump , because results at all comparable with those obtained by modern instruments could not be expected from a pump whose oints are made of india-rubber tubing . .
J. 1 .
Chorlton .
Examination oj some of the [ NIar .
19 , A new -circle ( ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , pp. 575\mdash ; 584 ) .
The instrument was described at a meeting of the Manchester and Society ( vol. 8 , p. 171 ) .
Joule was not satisfied with the usual method of supporting the needle of a dip-circle in which the cylindrical axle of the needle is made to roll agate planes , and , after trying several methods of suspension , finally adopted one in which the axle of the needle rolls on silk fibres .
His dip-circle received successive improvements , unbil it finally assumed the form described in the 'Collected Papers , ' o11 p. 577 .
A drawing of the instrument was exhibited at South Ken , in the Loan Collection of Apparatus , 1876 , and afterwards remained there .
Joule says that he could make an observation of the dip with this instrument in about tsn minutes , and that the difference between any two consecutive determinations hardly ever exceeded a fraction of a minute .
I musl confess , however , that I could not work the instrament to anything approaching that degree of speed and accuracy .
In the first place , the usual method of placing the needle in the plane of the magnetic meridian , i.e. , by finding the position in which the ) is , and then turning the instrument in azimuth , is impossible with this instrument , as may be seen from a glance at its form .
The only method , then , of finding the magnetic meridian is to take successive observations with the needle in different plane , until one is fouud in which the dip is a minimum ; this is a rather lengthy operation , and may necessitate five or six before the actual observations of the dip can be commenced .
The chief difficulty , however , in working with the instrument was the great friction between the axle of the needle and the silk fibres ; the original fibres attached by Joule were broken , and I had to attach new ones .
In what way the new fibres differed from the old ones I do not know , but in my observations the friction , and consequently the difference , between the readings was so great , and the tendsncy of the fibre to slip to different parts of the axle , and so to throw the needle out of the vertical plane , together with the vibrations incident upon the method of suspending the vertical circle , so troublesome , as , for all practical purposes , to render the instrument of little use .
Joule seems to have sometimes used spider-threads instead of silk fibres , but the ] needle I could find belonging to the dip-circle was too heavy for spider-threads .
Two Air-pumps ( ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , , also p. 531 ) .
Of these two pumps the older was used the research : " " On the Changes of Temperature produced by Rarefaction and Condensation of Air Sl 1896 .
] Scientific ruments used the late Dr. The was published in the ' Philosophical ' May , 1845 , and also in the 'CoIlected Papers , ' pp. 171\mdash ; 189 , where a full description may be found , including a detailed account of a new stopcock .
A notice of the second ) , a compressing air-pump , may be found on p. 531 of the 'Collected Papers ; ' in this meant the cylinders , two in number , were made of length , in order to get rid of the necessity of packing , being 20 in .
and 2 in .
diametel Joule that air can be readily compressed by the pump to 16 .
These two pumps were made under Joule 's direction , and with a little care would be in perfect working condition .
The qjher .
Jnometers .
The mometers in Joule 's determinations of the mechanical equivalenl of heat have already been by Dr. Schuste ] , ' Phil. Mag June , 1895 .
Several thermometers , however , of less importance at Sale .
Instrument for nometers .
This is a small instrument , made for Joule by Mr. Dancer It consists of a brass base with a groove for holding thermometers , over this is fixed a small microscope , which may be moved forwards by means of a fine screw with a graduated head ; the instrument is mentioned 011 p. 175 of the ' Collected Paoers , ' vol. 1 .
Two Tangent Galt } These galvanometers were not constructed by Joule himself , but ere made for him , and unde ] ' his directions , by the firm Abraham and Dancer , of Manchestel ; one of these uments was used the electric current in the determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat from the effects of electrical current ; its needle is suspended by a silk fibre , the of whiclJ , in accurate experiments , mnst be allowed for .
I found three coils to the instrument ; one of them consists of a circle of thick copper wire , the secolld about ten revoIutions of finer wire , and the third a large number of revoIutions of still finer wire .
coils mounted on woodcn ings 1 in .
in diameter , which slip on to the framework of the galvanometer , and may be removed or changed in a few seconds .
The smaller instrument , which about half the size of the larger , has three coils , 6 in .
in diameter , .
to it .
I hoped to have been able to discover some of the MSS .
of Joule 's 358 Mr. J. D. Chorlton .
Examination of some of the [ Mar. 19 , papers , but Mr. Joule told me that he had never come across any in the house , and did not think that any had beeu brought to Sale .
The only book I could find containing notes by Joule was a small book partly filled with memolanda relative to the brewery , at one end is a draft of the paper " " On the Determination of the ivalent of Heat from the Thermal Effect of Electric Currents at the other end are numerous readings of the barometer , taken day by day , and extending over a period of several months .
The following extracts are taken from the catalogue of the Collection of Scieutific Apparatus at South Kensington .
APPARATUS USED BY DR. JomE , , FOR ASCN1RTA1N1NG MECHANICAL EQUIyALENT OF 218 .
Revolving Blectro-magnet , used in 1843 for ascertaining the Mechanical iEquivalent of Heat .
Part of the appalatus used in 1843 for the determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat : , a revolving piece , holding a glass tube ] with water , and containing an electro-magnet .
This worked between the poles of a powerful magnet ; and the heat evolved by the rotating electro-magnet was measured by the rise of temperature of the water .
In this manner the quantity of heat lost by the circuit was ascertained when .
the machine worked as an engine ; and , on the her hand , the quantity of heat produced when work was done , on the machine was also ured .
-lbs .
was the mechanical equivalent of a degree F. in .
of water , as determined by these first experiments .
219 .
Calorimeter , containing a revolving agitator .
This was employed in the experiments on the heat evolved by the frictiou of ater , made in 1849 .
The eqnivalent arrived at was 772 -lbs .
220 .
Cast-iron Vessel , containing Friction Disk , to revolve under mercury .
Used in 1849 to determine the mechanical equivalent of heat by the friction of cast iron against cast iron .
The equivalent arrived at was 775 .-lbs .
221 .
Electro-magnet consisting of a broad plate of -inch iron having a bundle of copper wires coiled round it .
Employed in the first determination of the lical equivalent of heat .
222 .
Apparatus for determining the temperature of water at its maximum density .
Used in the experiments on atomic volume and specific glavity by Playfair and Joule ( ' Memoirs of the Chemical Societ7 , ' vol. 3 , 1846 ) .
It consists of two tall vessels , connected together by a stop-cock at the bottom , and a trough at the top .
A minute difference of the 1896 .
] Scientific Instru nents used by the late Dr. Joule .
temperature of water in one of the vessels from that of the maximum density , determines a flow the trough to the vessel still nearer the tenlperature of maximum density .
The temperature of water at maximm density was thus shown to be 223 .
Paddle Apparatus , by means of which Dr. Joule determined the dynamical equivalent of heat .
Described in ' Philosopbical ansactions ' for 1850 , p. 65 .
( Sir William Thomson .
) 592 .
of ilfercurial Air Pump ( 1872 ) .
( J. P. Joule , D.C.L. , F.R.S. ) By aIternately lifbing and lowering the bulb attactIed to the flexible tube , the air dried by the admission of sulphuric acid a glass valve at the upper of the perpendicular tube , a vely excellent vacnum may be obtained in a short time .
1118 .
Elecfro-Magnet made in 1840 .
When fully excited , the armature is retained with a force of upwards of a ton JouJe , 1144 .
Elecfro-Magnet for magnetic E made in 1850 , of a broad plate of annealed iron , so as to obtain a large duced power from a small voltaic ( J. P. Joule , D.C.L. , F.R S. ) The coil is composed of a bundle of copper wires , and has a rssistance about , equal to that of a Daniell 's cell , a sul'face of 1 ft. square .
1190 .
Drawing of a Dip Circle .
( J. P. Joule , F.R.S. ) The needle , constructed of a thin ribbon of annealed steel , ing 20 grains , is rnished with an axis made of a ire of standard gold .
This axis is supported by threads of the Diadema Spidor attached to the arms of a balance suspended by a fine stretched wirc .
The whole is hung by a wire which can be twisted at the head through .
At the bottom is attached a paddle immersed in oil , which brings the instrument speedily to rest in a fresh position .
The deflections are read off by a short focus telescope , placed on an arm revolving on an axis in the centre of the circle .
With this instrument the dip can be determined within the fraction of a minute of a degree in less than a of an hour .
With this drawing is exhibited a specimen of the thread of the Diadema Spider , also thread of the Diadema Spider cocoon .

