" Description of a new Barometer , recently fixed up in the Apartments of the Royal Society ; with remarks on the mode hitherto pursued at various periods , and an account of that which is now adopted , for correcting the observed height of the mercury in the Society 's Barometers .
" By Francis Bailey , Esq. , Vice-President and Treasurer , R.S. The barometer , here aUuded to , may in some measure be considered as two separate and independent barometers , inasmuch as it is formed of two distinct tubes dipping into one and the same cistern of mercury .
One of these tubes is made of flint glass , and the other of crown glass , with a view to ascertain whether , at the end of any given period , the one may have had any greater chemical effect on the mercury than the other , and thus affected the results .
A brass rod , to which the scale is attached , passes through the framework , between the two tubes , and is thus common to both : one end of which is furnished with a fine agate point , which , by means of a rack and pinion moving the whole rod , may be brought just to touch the surface of the mercury in the cistern , the slightest contact with which is immediately discernible ; and the other end of which bears the usual scale of inches , tenths , &amp;c. ; and there is a separate vernier for each tube .
A small thermometer , the bulb of which dips into the mercury in the cistern , is inserted at the bottom : and an eye ?
piece is also there fixed , so that the agate point can be viewed with more distinctness and accuracy .
The whole instrument is made to turn round in azimuth , in order to verify the perpendicularity of the tubes and the scale .
It is evident that there are many advantages attending this mode of construction , which are not to be found in the barometers as usu ?
ally formed for general use in this country .
The absolute heights are more correctly and more satisfactorily determined ; and the permanency of true action is more effectually noticed and secured .
For , every part is under the inspection and control of the observer ; and any derangement or imperfection in either of the tubes is immediately detected on comparison with the other .
And , considering the care that has been taken in filling the tubes .
and setting off the scale , it may justly be considered as a standard barometer .
The present volume of the Philosophical Transactions will contain the first register of the observations that have been made with this instrument .
Mr. Bailey then enters into a description of the several corrections that are required for the various kinds of barometers , in order to make them comparable with one another ; and treats of each of these in their order .
First as to the correction for temperature , both of the mercury and of the scale ; next for capillarity ; and afterwards for the height of the barometer above the level of the sea .
A table is given for the first of these corrections ; and a convenient formula for the latter : the correction for capillarity is constant , and of very small magnitude .
The author next describes the mode in which the observations of the barometer have , from time to time , been recorded in the Meteor ?
ological Journal of this Society ; and points out several inaccuracies which have occasionally been committed in this department , for want of an uniform plan of reduction .
Now this state of confusion and uncertainty he remarks ought not to exist in a me ?
teorological journal emanating from this Society , more especially as the true values are as easily attainable as the approximate ones .
And although , in a general point of view , the minute differences caused by such errors may be unimportant , yet as appeals are fre ?
quently made to the barometer of this Society , as a standard , by persons engaged in important researches , the most scrupulous accu ?
racy ought to be adopted and pursued , and the fullest explanation placed on record .
And Mr. Bailey says that notwithstanding the details which he has given may create some doubt respecting the ac ?
curacy of the past , yet he is persuaded that the system now pursued will inspire more confidence for the future .
It is on this account that he has entered thus at large on the subject ; trusting that what he has stated will not only tend to preserve for the future a more correct and uniform system , but also justify the Council in directing that the register should henceforth contain the daily observations uncorrected , and thus prevent the possibility of any similar confusion and mistakes hereafter .
Mr. Bailey then adverts to the height of the Society 's barometer ubove the mean level of the sea ; a subject of much interest to many persons engaged in various pursuits , but which appears , from the notes attached , at different periods , to the meteorological journal of this Society , to he involved in some confusion and uncertainty .
Thus , prior to the year 1 823 , the cistern of the barometer is said to be 81 feet above the level of low-water spring tides at Somerset House ; but without any information how this was connected with the sea .
From 1823 to 1825 , both inclusive , it is said to be 100 feet above the same level .
And from 1826 to 1836 , both inclusive , the above indication is omitted , and the height is said to be 83 feet 2^inches above a fixed mark on Waterloo Bridge ; or " above the mean level of the sea ( presumed about ) 95 feet/ ' The discordance between the 81 feet and the 100 feet is easily accounted for by the fact that the old barometer , prior to 1S23 , was fixed up in the Council-room of the Society , or the contiguous ante-room : but when Mr. Daniel 's barometer was finished , at the end of the year 1822 , it was fixed up in the closet adjoining the library , on the floor which is immediately over the Council-room ; the assumed difference in the elevation of the two floors ( namely , 19 feet ) having since been ascertained to be correct .
With respect to the new reference of altitude , namely , the fixed mark at Waterloo Bridge , much doubt has frequently been expressed about its existence , since no person had been able to discover it .
The fact is that there is no mark , in the common acceptance of the term ; but the intended reference is nevertheless more conspicuous , more durable , and more convenient than any mark that could have been inscribed by hands .
This standard mark , or level , was fixed on by Mr. Bevan in the year 1827 , at the request of the Council of this Society : and it is the surface of the granite pedestal at the base of the columns , at the north abutment of the bridge , and on the eastern side ; which is about 5 feet above the lowest platform , or landing , at the stairs .
Nothing therefore was wanting but the difference of level between this mark and the one made by Capt. Lloyd at London Bridge , the height of which above the mean level of the sea had been determined by him .
This has been recently done by Sir John Rennie , at the request also of the Council : and the result of the whole is , that the cistern of the barometer is 97 feet above the mean level of the sea .
The author concludes his paper with some remarks on the propriety of the position of the several meteorological instruments of the Society .
W ith respect to the barometer , he says he is not aware that any objection can be offered ; and as to the hygrometer , the observations have been found , by recent trials , not to differ materially from some expressly made in another position , at King 's College , which was considered to be more favourable for such experiments .
It therefore only remains to speak of the external thermometer and of the rain-gauge ; of which all that can be said on the subject would be merely a repetition of what was justly said sixty years ago by Mr. Cavendish on a similar occasion ( Philosophical Transactions , 1776 ) , namely , " that , on the whole , the situation is not altogether such as could be wished , but is the best the house affords .
"

