The reading of Mr. GossE 's paper , On the Structure , Functions , and Homology of the Manducatory Organs in the Class Rotifera , " was resumed and concluded .
In this paper the author institutes an examination of the manducatory organs in the class Rotifera , in order to show that the various forms which they assume can all be reduced to a common type .
He further proposes to inquire what are the real homologues of these organs in the other classes of animals , and what light we can gather , from their structure , on the question of the zoological rank of the Rotifera .
After an investigation of the bibliography of the class from Ehrenberg to the present time , in which the vagueness and inexactitude of our knowledge of these organs is shown , the author takes up , one by one , the various phases which they assume throughout the whole class ; commencing with Brachionus , in which they appear in the highest state of development .
Their form in this genus is therefore taken as the standard of comparison .
The hemispherical bulb , which is so conspicuous in B. amphiceros , lying across the breast , and containing organs which work vigorously against each other , has long been recognized as an organ of manducation : it has been called the gizzard ; but the author proposes to distinguish it by the term mastax .
It is a trilobate muscular sac , with walls varying much in thickness , receiving at the anterior extremity the buccal funnel , and on the dorsal side giving exit to the wesophagus .
Within this sac are placed two geniculate organs ( the mallei ) , and a third on which they , work ( the incus ) .
Each malleus consists of two parts ( the manubrium and the uncus ) , united by a hinge-joint .
The manubrium is a piece of irregular form , consisting of carinae of solid matter , enclosing three areas , which are filled with a more membranous substance .
The uncus consists of several slender pieces , more or less parallel , arranged like the teeth of a comb , or like the fingers of a hand .
The incus consists of two rami , which are articulated by a common base to the extremity of a thin rod ( the fulcrum ) , in such a way that they can open and close by proper muscles .
The fingers of each uncus rest upon the corresponding ramus , to which they are attached by an elastic ligament .
The mallei are moved to and fro by distinct muscles , which the author describes in detail ; and by the action of these they approach and recede alternately ; the rami opening and shutting simultaneously , with a movement derived partly from the action of the mallei , and partly from their own proper muscles .
All these organs have great solidity and density ; and , from the action of certain menstrua upon them , appear to be of calcareous origin .
The writer proceeds to describe the accessory organs .
The ciliated disc has an infundibuliform centre , which commonly merges into a tube before it enters the mastax .
The particles of food that float in the water , or swimming animalcules , are whirled by the ciliary vortex into this tube ; and , being carried into the mastax , are lodged upon the rami , between the two unci .
These conjointly work upon the food , which passes on towards the tips of the rami , and enter the esophlagus , which opens immediately beneath them .
From this normal condition , the author traces the manducatory organs through various modifications , in the genera Euchlanis , Notommata aurita , N. clavulata , Anurcea , N. petromyzon , N. lacinulata , Furcularia , N. gibba , Synclicta , Polyarthra , Diglena , Eosphora , Albertia , F. marina , Asplanchna , Mastigocerca , Moonocerca , and Scaridium .
Some of these display peculiarities and aberrations highly curious .
Notwithstanding the anomalies and variations which occur , however , the same type of structure is seen in all ; and the modifications in general may be considered as successive degenerations of the mallei , and augmentations of the incus .
The form of the manducatory organs , which occurs in Triarthra , Pompholyx , Pterodina , ( Ecistes , Limnias , Melicerta , Conochilus , ilegalotrocha , Lacinularia , and Tubicolaria , is next examined .
The organs are shown to be essentially the same as in the former type , but somewhat disguised by the excessive dilatation of the mallei , and by the soldering of the unci and the rami together , into two masses , each of which approaches in figure to the quadrant of a sphere .
Attention is then directed to what has been called ( but by a misapprehension ) the " stirrup-shaped " armature of the genera 7Rotifer , Philodina , Actinurus , &amp;c. Here , however , the organs are proved to have no essential diversity from the common type ; their analogy with those last described being abundantly manifest , though they are still further disguised by the obsolescence of the manubria .
Floscularia and Stephanoceros , the most elegant , but the most aberrant forms of Rotifera , close the series .
The mastax , in these genera , is wanting ; and in the former genus the incus and the manubria are reduced to extreme evanescence , though the two-fingered unci show , in their structure , relative position and action , the true analogy of these organs .
Having thus shown that there is but one model of structure , however modified or disguised , in the manducatory organs of the Rotifera , the author proceeds to the question of their homology .
He argues on several grounds that they have no true affinity with the gastric teeth of the Crustacea , though he states his conviction that the Rotifera belong to the great Arthropodous division of animals .
It is with the Insecta that the author seeks to ally these minute creatures ; and , by a course of argument founded on the peculiarities of structure already detailed , he maintains the following identifications:-that the mastax is a true mouth ; that the mallei are mandibles ; the manubria possibly representing the cheeks , into which they are articulated ; that the rami of the incus are maxille ; and that the fulcrum represents the cardines soldered together .
While the author maintains the connexion of Rotifera with Insecta , through these organs in their highest development , he suggests their affinity with Poiyzoa , by the same organs at the opposite extremity of the scale , since the oval muscular bulbs in Bowerbankia , which approach and recede in their action on food , seem to represent the quadriglobular masses of Limnias and Rotifer , further degenerated .
If this affinity be correctly indicated , the interesting fact is apparent , that the Polyzoa present the point where the two great parallel divisions , Mollusca and Articulata , unite in their course towards the true Polypi .
Mr. Gosse 's paper is illustrated by ninety-six figures of entire Rotifera , or of the parts under review , all drawn from the life , and , for the most part , with a power of 560 diameters .

