]\gt ; Acid Crystals from Astacus fluviatilis .
is obtained .
This murexide so obtained crystallises in prisms , by reflected light exhibit a splendid green-metallic lustre , and transmitted light are a deep reddish-purple .
On running in a soIution of potassium hydrate upon a slide containing some of these murexide crystals they were From these reactions it is evidenb ] these rhombic crystals deposits of uric acid from the secretion of the gland of the crayfish .
On examining the uric acid crystals ( deposited from the by means of alcohol ) under the microscope , they are seen to covered more or less with a very thin and superficial coating of brown colouring matter , probably some pigment .
But , beyond this discovery of uric acid in the secretion of reen gland of Astacus fluviatilis , I have found that on treating secretion with boiling hydrochloric acid a solution was containing in suspension flaky uric acid which was filtered on allowing the filtrate to cool a few crystals ( guanin separate which are soluble in hot water , and on the addition ammonia to this hot aqueous soIution a precipitate is obtained quanin , the precipitated guanin being made up of bers of minute microscopic crystals .
On running in warm nitric acid ( upon the slide ) these crystals disappeared , but precipitated again on adding a drop of silver nitrate in the form tue nitrate of silver compound of guanin .
I think this investigation proves that this so-called green gland Astacus fluviatilis is a true urinary organ , its secretion containing acid and very small traces of the base guanin : the green gland therefore , physiologically the kidney of the animal .
II .
" " On the Atomic Weight of Glucinum ( Beryllium ) .
Paper By T. S. HUMPIr ) , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , Professor Chemistry in the University College of Wales , Aberystwyth .
Communicated by Prof. E. , F.R.S. Received February 27 , 1885 .
( Abs bract .
) This paper is a continuation of one previously communicated the Boyal Society .
* The author has prepared a sample of metallio glucinum , having the composition\mdash ; * .
Rov .
Soc vol. 35 , p. 13 On the Atomic of Glucinum .
has determined its specifio heat at varying up to with the following results ( for pure glucinum):\mdash ; These results correspond to the following empirical formula for the specific heat of the metal at varying temperatures\mdash ; with numerical values\mdash ; the following values for are calculated:\mdash ; ths following curve these values are graphically represented .
The curve reaches a maximum at about and then falls ; but whether it represents the specific heat at .
higher temperatures than is doubtful .
The specific ' heat of glucinum thus rises rapidly up to about , and remains approximately constant between 40 and at this number is multiplied by it gives the atomic heat .
Glucinum , therefore , belongs to the same class as carbon , boron , and silicon , which agree with Dulong and Petit 's rule at high temperatures only .
And the true atomic weight is that required by the periodic law , and not , as was previously deduced from the specific heat between and This conclusion is confirmed by the author 's determinations of the vapour-densities of glucinum chloride and bromide in a platinum On fomie of Glucinum .
vessel .
The experiments done in an atmosphere of carbonio acid collected over mel.cury after Meier and Crafts , gave the following results:\mdash ; I. Glucinum Chloride .
Substance .
Displaced periment I. . . .
264 mgrms . . . . . . . . . . . .
2733 II . . . .
, , . .
, , . . . . . . . .
The theoretical density of is , and this formula , there fore , represents the molecule of this compound .
IT .
Bromide .
Subst .
Displaced Experiment II . . . .
359 mgrms . . .
4 . . . . . . . . .
III . . . .
, , . .
, , . . . .
IV . . . .
, , .
, , . . . .
The density of is , and that of Gl ' is agreement in this case is not so close as in the case of the chloride , but is sufficiently near to show that the true molecular formula , and not , the vapour-density of both pounds necessitates the atomic weight .
The result is a argument in favour of the value of deductions drawn from * ' ' Berlin Ber xiii , This agrees Nilson Pefterson 's exporiments Berlin xvli , 987 .
The Absorption Spectra of the Alkaloids .
in regard to the atomic weight of an element , and shows such deductions will in future form one of the most important in fixing a doubtful atomic weight .
The author did uot the full value of the periodic law when he wrote his paper , otherwise he onld probably have stated his concluless positively .
Jfarch 12 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks The following Papers were read : I. ' The Absorption Spectra of the Alkaloids .
Part II By W. N. HARTLEY , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received March 5 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) Haviug lately completed an examination of a ssries of aconitines from different sources , kindly sent to me by Dr. Stevenson , Lecturer on Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence at Guy 's Hospital , London , I beg leave to offer the results to the Royal Society .
The list of specimens , which was accompanied by remarks upon them , is the following:\mdash ; No. 1 .
" " Exotic aconitine , German , rather inert No. 2 .
A fine specimen of crystallised aconitine , special , prepal.ed b. Morson and Son , 124 , Southampton Row , London No. 3 .
" " Aconitine , from Burgoyne , Burbidges , and Co. , 16 , Coleman Street , London No. 4 .
" " Nitrate of aconitine ( This specimen was accidentally destroyed .
) No. 5 .
" " Aconitine of uncertain source 'Of these specimens only two , namely , No. 2 and No. 3 , were found tn exhibit absorption-bands , and the corresponding curves were from photographs of their spectra .
Morson 's fine specim , the crystals of which were one and even two millimetres in length , was found to absorb the rays at bwo points , the two absorptions being equally strong .
It is noticeable that the most

