236 Messrs. Bateson , Saunders , and Punnett .
[ Dee .
l ( 8 ) The brain of a case of Trypanosomiasis did not show small celled infiltration .
( 9 ) Animals infected with Trypanosoma show sometimes changes in the nervous system , localised in the grey matter , haemorrhages , lymphocytes , and a few leucocytes in the peri-vascular space : haemo-lymph glands in large numbers , and sometimes necrosis of the spleen and degeneration of the bone marrow .
( 10 ) Animals infected with Trypanosoma exhibit similar changes .in the nervous system and organs .
A far greater deposit of pigment in the lymph glands and in older cases in the spleen is present .
Further Experiments on Inheritance in Peas and Stocks .* .
Preliminary Account .
By W. Bateson , F.B.S. , E. B. Saunders , and B. C. Punnett .
( Keceived December 1 , \#151 ; Bead December 7 , 1905 .
) Later results have provided expressions which include many of the peculiar phenomena of inheritance already witnessed in sweet peas and stocks .
In sweet peas we have shown that purple may occur , as a " reversion , " from the cross between two whites , one having long pollen grains , the other round .
Similarly in stocks , white glabrous x cream glabrous gives " reversionary " Fx purple hoary .
( In both cases the parents are whites , i.e. , free from sap-colour , for cream is due to yellow plastids , recessive to colourless plastids .
) The appearance of coloured flowers is due to the simultaneous presence in the zygote of two factors , belonging to distinct allelomorphic pairs , which may be spoken of as C , c , and B , r , the large letter denoting presence , the small letter the absence of the particular factor .
Hoariness of stocks is similarly due to the coexistence of two other factors , and the presence of either of these factors is also allelomorphic to its absence .
These two pairs are spoken of as H , h , and K , k. But , - though H and K may both be present , no hoariness is produced unless C and B , the colour-factors , are also both present .
For the actual development of hoariness four factors are thus required .
The existence of white-flowered hoary plants creates a difficulty ; but white incana is evidently a-coloured Inheritance in Sweet Peas and Stocks .
1905 .
] form in reality , for its flowers tinge on fading , and its embryo has the deep-green colour characteristic of purple varieties .
Apart from breeding-tests , however , white hoary Bromptons show no visible indication of colour , and as yet they constitute a marked exception .
White glabrous and cream glabrous types contain both H and K , the two elements of hoariness .
One of them contains C and the other contains E. All sap-coloured types studied contain one only of the two factors H , K. Consequently , we find the following result , which formerly seemed paradoxical:\#151 ; I\ .
1 .
Cream glabrous x Eed or purple glabrous 2 .
White glabrous x Ditto 3 .
Cream glabrous x White glabrous 4 .
Any red or purple x Any red or purple glabrous .
glabrous .
The truth of this account appears from the fact that in F2 from cream glabrous x white glabrous all the coloured are hoary and all the whites are glabrous .
Again , purple ( hoary ) incana x cream glabrous gives in F2 all the hoary plants coloured , and all the glabrous plants white ; while " white " ( hoary ) incana x sap-coloured types gives in F2 coloured hoary , coloured glabrous , and in addition tinging " whites " in both classes .
When a character is produced by the meeting of factors belonging to two distinct allelomorphic pairs , the F2 ratio will be 9 : 7 3 + 3 + 1 ) , and consequently , when in sweet peas and stocks a coloured Fi is produced from two non-sap-coloured types , the F2 ratio is 9 coloured : 7 white ; but there are 4 gametically-distinct types among the coloured and 5 among the whites .
Most of these have been now recognised experimentally .
When Fi is purple the coloured class consists of purples and reds .
In both sweet peas and stocks the ratio is 27 purple , 9 red , 28 white , composed thus:\#151 ; V---------y---------+ .
The purples are due to the presence of a " blue " factor B , allelomorphic to b , its absence .
Unless C and E are both present , B cannot be perceived without breeding tests .
The three pairs , C , c , E , r , B , b , by entering into all possible combinations according to the simple Mendelian system , give the results observed .
This scheme takes no account of the sub-classes which sometimes occur Eed or purple hoary .
Purple hoary .
Ditto .
Eed or purple glabrous .
Inheritance in Siveet Peas and Stocks .
in both purples and reds .
Several of these are merely superposed on the primary classes , while others are more complex and require further analysis .
The distribution of the colours shows further complications when some coloured strains were introduced as original parents .
" Reversion " is thus seen to he a simple and orderly phenomenon , due to the meeting of factors belonging to distinct though complementary allelomorphic pairs , which at some moment in the phylogeny of the varieties have each lost their complement .
Pollen-characters in Siveet Peas.\#151 ; Gametic coupling of a novel kind exists in this case .
The whole generation in E2 consists of 3 long : 1 round .
The whites taken alone also are 3 long : 1 round .
But in the purples there is a great deficiency of rounds , while in the reds they are greatly in excess .
This result indicates that there is a partial coupling of the long pollen-character with the factor B , and a corresponding coupling of round pollen with l ) .
This peculiarity only occurs in families which contain both purple and red members .
The gametic output of Fi in these cases is approximately 7AB + 1A b + laB + 7 where A is long , and a round pollen .
This arrangement gives a close approach to the observed figures:\#151 ; Purple .
Red .
White .
Long. Pound .
Long. Pound .
Long. Pound .
Observed ... ... 1528 106 117 381 1199 394 Calculated ... . .
1448-5 122-7 122-7 401*5 1220-5 407'4

