]\gt ; 1876 .
] On Electro-Magnetic Rotation .
Fig. 2 .
Piece of the epiblast ; the cells and nuclei ined with carmine .
Magnified about 370 diameters .
Fig. 3 .
Pieco of the poblast ; similarly .
Magnified 370 diametel .
Fig. 4 .
Section across the germinal area of the developiug ovum , stained with logwood .
Magnified diameters . .
zona limitans hypoblastica .
VI .
Preliminary Report to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty on some of the Results of the Cruise of H.M. S. 'Challcngcr 3 between Hawaii and Valparaiso By Prof. S0N , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Staff on board .
Received February 26 , 1876 .
[ This Report will appear in a subsequent Number of Proceedings .
] March 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , Prcsident , in the Chair .
The Presents received were on the table , ordered for them .
The following Pnpers read:\mdash ; I. An Experiment on netic Rotation By W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Reccived February 24 , 1876 .
The phenomena of the tion of movable collductors , currents , bout lines of magnetic ce are well .
One form of periment , commonly called the spark , presents , beside the actual rotation , some peculiar features hich do not appeal to have been lloticed .
The instrumental ements consist of a tially exhausted with a point for one terminal , for the other , and ffie interv ling air or other gas for the conductol .
The chamber is made in the form of a donble , so that a magnet iurted through the reach neiLlly to the point .
The then passes betweell the point and the ring , and nbout the to But beside he tion , and ev en when , of { he Jlet , rotation does not actually hell ] , is seen to assnlne a spiral form ; tho is nded according to both the direction of the CUl.rent and the Mr. W. Spottiswoode on [ Mar. netic polarity .
This effect is particuhrly noticeable if the magnetic be inserted only a short distance beyond the .
The discharge is then seen to spread itself out sheetwise on the ring in the direction in which tion vould .
The edge of the sheet is in the form of a helix .
The object of the following observations is to bring out the of this phenomenon by .
it a prinoipal instead of a secondary feature of the experiment .
rrnngement here described consisted in the poles of an as the of a discharge from -coil , and in the effect on the form of the discharge caused by exciting the electromagnct .
this purpose the poles } ' insulated from the main body of the gllet by interposing a sheet of thick enough to prevent the of the , but not thicker , in order little possible to the strength of the Jletico poles .
The disch ) then either in the open air or in a closed chamber .
The tter was constructed of a short cylinder of glass , say 3 inches in and 2 in diameter , having conical ends pointed , so as to receive the poles of the gIlet .
The chamber also furnished wibh pipe stopcock for the purposes of exhaustion .
The from { induction-coil in air or other gas at atmospheric , as is vell k ) , primarily of the spark propel ' or liue , form and instantaneous in duration .
But beside this , the is thick iLnd the battery-current , the is ] cloped a bright cloud , or ather flame , hich is cnpable of bciJlg throwll on though not entirely detached from the spnrk , by current of air .
This , when miJled in a revolving mirror , is foumd to subsequent in time to the spark proper , bc cousidered to be to the gas in neighbourhood of the spnrk becoming sufficicntly to conduct parb of the discharge , and to the conscquent combustion of any extraneous tter floating in the medium .
Such a view is supported by the fact the colour of this flame depends partly upon the nature of the gas in which the discharge -es place , and pnrtly upon that of tilizable matter -hich may be introduced near the poles .
The excitiug of the magnet produces upon the spark proper no appreeffect ; as soon the flame is submitted to its action it is spread out into sheet , Yhich arranges itself in a helicoid right-handed or ccording to the direction of the current and of the netic rity i obedien ce to Effects the same produced whether the discharge be taken in at atmospheric or a less pressure .
But the formar case the helix has , in the latter a steeper grndient ; that is to in the former case it prcsents grcater , in the latter less nnmber of turus for a givcn } betwcen the polcs .
1876 .
] Electro-Magnetic Rotation .
But for producing the best effects , both of the rolating spark and also of the , there is a limit beyond hich the exbaustion should not bc carried .
At a pressure l enough to oduce stratification , of it , the chanber is filled with the dischalge , ftnd traces of l.otatiou and of are ] iterated .
The stage best suited to the purpose is that in which the disch , arge has ened in meter , where the spark proper hns been replaced by a suffused of the thic ness , , of a quill .
If the tive terminal be a surface the surface of the soft iron pole of the omagnet ) of point , the shect does not becolue contrncted at the negati ) , but spread out aJld cuts the iron pole line adiating from the point .
nrious gnscs were air , rbouic acid , roform , , hydrogen .
Of these the first succecded best .
the illumination of the flame-sheet nus rRther grenter ; but ith bouic acid greater of position ined .
lVith both cthcr and chloroform occasional flashes , brillinntly ated , were seoll ; but some chemical ftction appeared to place tiug ainsts the steady development of the flame-sheet .
With -gas there was au cuient deposit of rboll upon the sides of the .
With cloud was not sufficiently developed .
The success hich attellded t experiment possibly be pnrtly due , csted ; , to the coJnbustion of the extrnnGous ttfer floating itlld in fact the brilli t of { hc may bc by ttnching a of metallic sodium to the n terminal , or .
a of any of the chloridcs .
of strontiun ] , lithium , \amp ; c. , to flow across the field of ction .
piccc of sodium ( or bettcl still of sodn ) is ttached to one of the ntiuals , effects may be lotiCCd .
yhell that is the holc of the flamc is bright yellow , ing t hc is not only detac.hed but en cftlried { the field ) osited 0 tho Whcll , to vx hich he sodium is ttached is , it is found that the flnme , hcn red ellow to a certain distance from , but led yond , nnd th the pitch of the hclix is less ncftr the positi ) ncnr he ( lal .
These effec tributCd to the ) sollcc ) ctallic oh cd by the ) , but not the field hen the tcl'lnin1tl in tioJl is Th iltg c of the is to Prof. it is SnbSfantially t , $ot 0l , is perhnps still quitc hc tYellcral c of the e ] lagnct i ill bo lppohed u , nnd the of force pole to ) path of hc cnrrent is { ight l from pole to ) .
In such 11 coltdition of things , } ) Qing s , no 406 On Electro-Magnetic Rotation .
[ Mar. 80 But if through any local , as in the experiment in air , through heating of the chamber as the exhausted tube , or otherwise the of the current be distorted and displaced , then each element wil be subject to the action of two forces .
To estimate these , let be \amp ; 1 elemeJlt o the , with rectangular components strength of the current , and the magnetic force with components hich in the first instance will be treated generally .
Then one will be that tending to impel the current in the direction of the respectively , and may be sxpressed by Besides this , there will be the tendency of the current to follow the shortest so as to diminish the resistance .
Represcnting this as a tension , the components at one end of be and those at the othel . .
, the algcbrnical sums of which , nnd the tions of equilibrium then become , .
; ( 3 ) taking as the independent yariable and multiplyiug by respectively , and adding , we obtain , or constant .
, multiplying by X , and adding obt : , . . . .
which xpresses that the absolute normal ( or in the osculating plane ) is to the resultant magnetic force .
In the case of a uniform tint , X , will be constant .
( 4 ) and putting for the angle between the tangent and the lines oi magnetic force , find dzR\amp ; so that the tangent line is inclined at a constant ngle to the line joining the poles .
Again , the following combinations , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) ( 1 ) give Cd .
\amp ; c. , or \amp ; .
1876 .
] On the Residual Charge of the Leyden Jar .
Transposing , , and adding , and the radius of cmvatul.e , obtain : CR which is constant .
The is therefore a helix .
Also the l.adius curvature of the projection of the curve on plane .
to the axis will be " " The value of depends doubtless on the natnre and of the perhaps also on the curlent ; but it must be the same for equal lues of of opposite signs .
Hence the handedness of the helix will be reyersed by leversin either the rent o ' the magnetic polarity .
If the left-haud magnetic pole be north ting ) , the terminal positive , the helix be right-hnnded.\ldquo ; The genelal of the phenomelloD may therefore now be ibed as follows:\mdash ; ' ' First , the bright spark of no sensible lration which nearly in a line the terminals .
This opens path for a , which being neally in a condition of , though an ullstable one , remain a time ithout much change of place .
Then it moves rapidly to its position of equilibrium , the surface hich is its locus the sheet .
Then it remains in its position of during the greatol part of the dischltrge , approaching the axis the falls , so that its position is not so from the axis .
Thus we see bright corresponding to the positions of lest tulited by a less bright sheet , the first curl e being ) straight the secolld nearly a helix a cylinder of hich the former line is a genernting line .
" " It noticed thot the sheet projected a little beyond the helix .
This be by ]lsidel.ing that at first the is more pow.erful than can be maintnined , so that the curye re ches a little beyond the distance can be \ldquo ; The of the dischnrge when in mirlol ( oxccpt the projection beyond the shect , tho illu]niniLtiou hich ils too feeble to be observed ) collfirmed the ab II .
The Rcsidual of the Jar By J. , D. Sc. Communicated by Prof. Sir WILLIAM 1 .
If it be sumed hat eJectric in of its snbst in opolar logous to cocrve forco is reqnisilo the } ' of this electroLeyden

