]\gt ; gnetisrn due to Free Electrons .
By H. A. WILSON , F.R.S. , Rice Institute , Houston , Texas , U.S.A. ( Received March 18 , 1920 .
) According to the electron theory of the electrical and thermal properties of metals , these bodies contain a large number of negative electrons , which move about between the metallic atoms like the molecules of a gas .
This theory explains satisfactorily several of the fundamental facts , such as the emission of electrons from hot metals , Ohm 's law , and Wiedemann and Franz 's law , but fails in its simple form to account for the different values of the Hall effect and other phenomena .
More elaborate forms of the electron theory , based on the quantum hypothesis , enable some of these difficulties to be removed .
It seems probable that metals do contain free electrons , but the theory of the motion of these electrons , in the crystals of which solid metals are composed , has not yet been worked out in a sufficiently complete manner tc account quantitatively for all the phenomena .
Kent* shows that the electron theory rees well with the facts in the case of the optical properties of some liquid metals at 40 C. In this paper it is shown that the presence of the free electrons in a metal should produce diamagnetic susceptibility of amount comparable with that in the diamagnetic metals .
The total magnetic susceptibility of metals is therefore presumably equal to the sum of that due to the atoms , which may be either paramagnetic or diamagnetic , and that due to the free electrons .
Let , and be the velocity components of an electron parallel to axes , and .
Lt there be a magnetic field of strength , , parallel to the axis .
The equations of motion of an electron are then where is the charge on an electron and its mass .
These equations give , putting , 'Physical Review , ' December , 1919 .
VOL XCVIL\mdash ; A. Prof. H. A. Wilson .
where is a constant and , so that A is the velocity plane .
If denotes the angular momentum of the electron about the axis , we have ( vx\mdash ; uy ) Let be the co-ordinates of the electron at the time , so that Substituting these values of and in the expression for , we obtain Suppose that there are a very large number , , of electrons , describing free paths like the molecules of a gas , but all moving with the same resultant velocity , V , and consider the total angular momentum of all the electrons about the axis .
For each electron , let be the time since its last collision with an atom , so that give its position at its last collision .
Then it is easy to see that in the terms and will be equal to zero , so that The mean value of during a free path of duration is The number of free paths with times between and out of a total number , , is , where denotes the mean value of The average value of for one electron during a long time is therefore Hence But , since the electrons are as likely to be moving in one direction as another , the average value of must be , so that Diamagnetism due to Free Electrons .
If denotes the length of the mean free path , then , since all the electrons are supposed to be moving with the same velocity , , we have , so that Now , will nearly always be small compared with unity , and in a metal is probably nearly independent of , so that , if the electrons , instead of all having the same velocity , velocities distributed according to Maxwell 's law , it will be very nearly correct to put where now denotes the mean value of the square of the velocity .
If we take to be the number of free electrons in unit volume of the metal , then will be the angular momentum , about any axis parallel to the magnetic field , of the free electrons per unit volume .
The motion of the electrons with this angular momentum produces a magnetic field opposite in direction to the external field H. Consider a bar of the metal , of circular cross-section , with its axis parallel to the magnetic field H. The angular momentum and magnetic field due to the motion of the electrons in this bar will be equal to those due to a current circulating round the surface of the bar in planes perpendicular to its axis .
Let this current be per unit length along the axis , and let he number of electrons carrying this current be per unit area .
The angular of these electrons about the axis of the bar is , where is their velocity .
The angular momentum per unit volume is therefore .
Also , , so that The magnetic field inside the bar due to the current is equal to , so that the magnetic moment per unit volume is Hence the intensity of magnetisation .
The angular momentum per unit volume is therefore equal to 2 mI/ \amp ; It can easily be shown that this resuJt is true for a bar of any cross section .
Hence Since this gives for the susceptibility In the case of most diamagnetic metals is probably very small compared with unity , so that approximately Prof. H. A. Wilson .
In this case we should not expect to much with the temperature , since probably does not vary much .
At very low temperatures , with large values of cannot be neglected , and the expression for indi(cates that should diminish and become zero at the absolute zero of temperature .
According to the electron theory we have where denotes the conductivity in a transverse netic field and as before .
In this expression for as in that for the value of is probably not the same as when there is no magnetic field .
We have If denotes the pressure of a gas of density , the molecules of which have the same mass as negative electrons , then , so that This equation suggests that should be nearly proportional to .
In the case of most metals , differs so little from ) that the corresponding variations in are quite inappreciable ; but in the case of bismuth in strong fields is much less than , so we might expect the susceptibility of bismuth to be less in strong fields .
Faraday thought he observed such a diminution , but Wills*found constant up to .
Wilk ' experiments seems to be the only ones in which strong enough fields were used to give an appreciable diminution in the conductivity .
At C. if dynes per sq .
cm .
we have S gram .
per Hence The following Table gives some values of and , and the corresponding values of T. The values of deduced from the optical properties are given under , and those deduced from the effect of a magnetic field on the conductivity under :\mdash ; 'Phil .
Mag vol. 45 , p. 432 ( 1898 ) .
Dianeagnetisni due to Free Electrons .
The values of and are those given in Landolt and 's Tables .
for bismuth is approximately the value given by Drude 's optical measurements , from which the values of for mercury and silver are also deduced .
The value of for liquid bismuth is that given by C. V. Kent .
* The value of for bismuth is got from observations by O. W. Heaps and that for silver from those of Patterson .
In the cases of solid bismuth and mercury , the value of , calculated from the susceptibility , is between the other two values , which differ widely .
In the case of liquid bismuth , is eight times .
For silver , , from the susceptibility , is much smaller than the other two estimates .
The conductivity is proportional to , so that , for a given conductivity , as calculated , varies directly as or inversely as .
It follows that , to account for the small susceptibility of metals like silver , the number of free electrons would have to be supposed much greater than the estimates derived from optical and magnetic data .
This may be due to the atoms being paramagnetic , so that most of the diamagnetism due to the free electrons is neutralised .
It appears that metals containing few free electrons should be more diamagnetic than those containing many .
Thus bismuth and antimony , which seem to contain comparatively few free electrons , are strongly diamagnetic .
The same is true of melcury .
Also , fused bismuth apparently contains many more free electrons than solid bismuth , and is much less If we have , if is supposed to be independent of Putting we get so that is equal to the gas pressure in the metal due to the free electrons .
The values given for and A lead to the equation where is the pressure in a gas containing molecules per cubic centimetre .
According to this , should be a constant , having the same value for all substances .
In electromagnetic units , is equal to 2 .
* Physical Review , ' December , 1919 .
'Physical Review , ' October , 1917 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 3 , p. 643 ( 1902 ) .
Prof Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
approximately at C. The values of ) for different diamagnetic substances , calculated from the experimental values , are much smaller than .
This indicates possibly that the kinetic energy of the electrons in a metal is much less than that of the molecules of a gas at the same temperature .
Another way of explaining the difference is to suppose that the atoms are paramagnetic , so that is smaller than that due to the free electrons alone .
In conclusion , it may be said that , while the theory indicates clearly that free electrons should produce diamagnetic susceptibility , the electron theory of the optical and electrical properties of metals is not in a sufficiently satisfactory condition to provide reliable data with which to compare results deduced from the observed susceptibihtieH .
The Pressure upon the Poles of Metallic and Composite Arcs , including an Enquiry into the Reactions consequent Electron sion .
By W. G. DUFFIELD , D.Sc .
, Professor of Physics , T. H. BURNHAM , B.Sc. , and A. H. DAVIS , B.Sc. , Post-Graduate Students in Physics , University College , Reading .
( Communicated by Prof. O. W. Richardson , F.RS .
Received December 16 , 1919 .
) Experiments upon the pressure experienced by the poles of a carbon arc* led to the theory , which was put forward tentatively , that it was due to the recoil consequent upon the projection of electrons from the poles .
Experiments have subsequently been made upon metallic arcs , using poles of iron , silver , copper , and an alloy of silver and copper , and also upon a composite arc in which one pole was of silver and the other of carbon .
In dealing with the carbon arc it was found possible to eliminate the effects of the electromagnetic influence of the rest of the circuit and of the earth 's magnetic field , by employing what was called the double-arc method ; but in the present set of experiments the rapid melting of the metal rods made it expedient in the majority of cases to employ the less direct singlearc method , which had also been used in the carbon investigation , the necessary allowances for the disturbing influences being made in the manner * Duffield , Burnham and Davis , ' Phil. Trans vol. 220 , p. 109 ( 1919 ) .

