1872 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
r " Letter from W. De LaRue , F.R.S. , to Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. , relative to the Observations taken with the Kew Heliograph .
" The Obseryatory , Cranford , Middlesex , W. , February 5th , 1872 .
My dear Sir , \#151 ; I beg herewith to hand you a statement of the expenditure of the \lt ; \#163 ; 200 I received in February 1871 from the Government-Grant Fund for working the Kew heliograph and measuring and reducing the photographic pictures from February 1st , 1871 , to January 30 , 1872 .
I enclose the vouchers .
The work which I undertook to superintend during the last ten years has been brought to a close , so far as the observations are concerned .
It has , however , been impossible to keep up the measurements of the sun-pictures and their reduction to the day .
Indeed it will take eighteen months to bring these to a close ; I have agreed with Mrs. Whipple ( formerly Miss Beckley ) and Mr. Loewy to complete this work for a specific sum ( aei70 ) .
As the funds placed at my disposal are exhausted , I will defray this expense myself .
It may be of interest to the Government-Grant Committee to know that , during the ten years ( 1862 , February , to the end of January 1871 ) , 2778 pictures have been obtained on 1724 days .
Since the Kew instrument was devised and constructed , I have been able , with the aid of Mr. Dalmeyer , to introduce many improvements , both in the mechanical parts and the optical portion of the instrument ; but I did not think it desirable to interrupt the sun-work to make any changes in the Kew heliograph .
Now that the work is completed , I would recommend that the secondary magnifier should be changed to the form adopted in the instrument made for the Russian Government , under my direction , and now at work at Wilna , by which very much better pictures are obtained than those procured at Kew .
The cost of this change would be about \#163 ; 30 .
II .
u On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
\#151 ; Part III .
Lycopodiacea."By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural History in Owen 's College , Manchester .
Received February 29 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) An outline of the subject of this memoir has already been published in j the Proceedings* in a letter to Dr. Sharpey .
In a former memoir the !
author described the structure of a series of Lepidodendroid stems , appa \#166 ; Tantly belonging to different genera and species .
He now describes a very similar series , but all of which , there is strong reason for believing , belong a 2 * Suprh , p. 95 .
200 Prof. Williamson on the Fossil [ Mar. 7 to the same plant , of which the structure has varied at different stages of its growth .
The specimens were obtained from some thin fossiliferous deposits discovered by Mr. G. Grieve of Burntisland , in Fifeshire , where they occur imbedded in Igneous rocks .
The examples vary from the very youngest , half-developed twigs , not more than of an inch in diameter to arborescent stems having a circumference of from two to three feet .
The youngest twigs are composed of ordinary parenchyma , and the imper-fectly developed leaves which clothe them externally have the same struc .
ture .
In the interior of the twig there is a single bundle , consisting of a limited number of barred vessels .
In the centre of the bundle there can always be detected a small amount of primitive cellular tissue , which is a rudimentary pith .
As the twig expanded into a branch , this central pith enlarged by multiplication of its cells , and the vascular bundle in like manner increased in size through a corresponding increase in the number of its vessels .
The latter structure thus became converted into the vascular cylinder , so common amongst Lepidodendroid plants , in transverse sections of which the vessels do not appear arranged in radiating series .
Simultaneously with these changes the thick parenchymatous outer layer becomes differentiated .
At first but two layers can be distinguished\#151 ; a thin inner one , in which the cells have square ends , and are disposed in irregular vertical columns , and a thicker outer one consisting of parenchyma , the same as the epidermal layer of the author 's preceding memoir .
In a short time a third layer was developed between these two .
When the vascular cylinder had undergone a considerable increase in its size and in the number of its vessels , a new element made its appearance .
An exogenous growth of vessels took place in a cambium layer , which invested the preexisting vascular cylinder .
The author distinguishes the latter as the vascular medullary cylinder , and the former as the ligneous zone .
The newly added vessels were arranged in radiating laminae , separated from each other by small but very distinct medullary rays .
At an earlier stage of growth traces of vascular bundles proceeding from the central cylinder to the leaves had been detected .
These are now very clearly seen to leave the surface of the medullary vascular cylinder where it and the ligneous zone are in mutual contact ; hence tangential sections of the former exhibit no traces of these bundles , but similar sections of the ligneous zone present them at regular intervals and in quincuncial order .
Each bundle passes outwards through the ligneous zone , imbedded in a cellular mass , which corresponds , alike in its origin and in its direction , with the ordinary medullary rays , differing from them only in its larger dimensions .
At this stage of growth the plant is obviously identical with the Diploxylon of Corda , with the Anabathra of Witham , and , so far as this internal axis is concerned , with the Sigillaria elegans of Bron-gniart .
^ The peculiar medullary vascular cylinder existing in all these plants is now shown to be merely the developed vascular bundle of ordinary Lycopods , whilst the exogenous radiating ligneous zone enclosing 1B73 .
] Plants of the Coal-measures , 201 that cylinder is an additional element which has no counterpart amongst the living forms of this group .
Though the central compound cellulo-vascular axis continued to increase in size with the general growth of the plant , it was always small in proportion to the size of the stem .
The chief enlargement of the latter was due to the growth of the bark , which exhibited three very distinct layers , \#151 ; an inner one of cells with square ends , and slightly elongated vertically and arranged in irregular vertical rows , an intermediate one of prosenchyma , and an outer one of parenchyma .
These conditions became yet further modified in old stems .
The exogenous ligneous zone became very thick in proportion to the medullary vascular cylinder , and the differences between the layers of the bark became yet more distinct .
These differences became the most marked in the prosenchymatous layer ; at its inner surface the cells are prosenchymatous , but towards its exterior they become yet more elongated vertically , their ends being almost square , whilst numbers of them of exactly equal length are arranged in lines radiating from within outwards .
These oblong cells often pass into a yet more elongated series with somewhat thickened walls , which become almost vascular , constituting a series of bast-fibres .
In the transverse sections these prosenchymatous cells are always arranged , like the vessels of the ligneous zone , in radiating lines .
Yet more external is the sub-epidermal parenchyma passing into leaves composed of the same kind of tissue .
The petioles of the leaves have been long , if not permanently , retained in connexion with the stem , a character of Corda 's genus Loma-tophloios .
Where young twigs branch , the vascular medullary cylinder divides longitudinally into two parts ; the transverse section of this cylinder now resembles two horse*shoes pointing in opposite directions .
The break in the continuity of each half of the cylinder occasioned by the division is never closed by new vessels belonging to the cylinder ; but when the stem develops exogenously , the cambium-layer , from which the new growths originated , has endeavoured to surround these openings in the cylinder , and , by closing them , once more to separate the medullary from the cortical tissues .
Some beautiful specimens have been obtained , which exhibit these new exogenous layers in process of formation .
The vessels or the young layers are not half developed .
At first they meander vertically through masses of delicate cellular tissue ; but they soon arrange themselves in regular radiating vessels and cells , becoming mere outward prolongations of the woody wedges and medullary rays of the older part of the stem .
At this stage of their growth , the walls of the vessels are deeply indented by the contiguous cells , as if the plastic tissues of the former had been moulded upon the latter structures .
As the new vessels enlarge , the superfluous intervening cells disappear , until each medullary ray finally consists of a single vertical pile of from one to a small number of cells , arranged as in many Coniferse .
The exceptional cases are those where On the Fossil Plants of the .
[ Mar. 7 , vascular bundles pass outwards to the leaves ; these bundles have pro .
tected the contiguous cells above and below them from the pressure of the enlarging ligneous vessels and limited their absorption .
Both these and the smaller ordinary rays pass outwards in horizontal and parallel lines .
The evidences of an exogenous mode of growth afforded by these young , half-developed layers of wood is clear and decisive .
The Burntisland deposits are full of fragments of strobili , especially of torn sporangia and of macrospores .
Several fine have been ob- tained like those to which the fragments have belonged , and which the author believes to have been the fruits of the stems described .
Ihe structure of these strobili is very clear and of interest ; the primalj branches from the central axis subdivide , so that each sporangium rests upon asepa-rate bract , from the upper surface of which a vertical lamina arises , and , extending the entire length of the sporangium , ascends fai into its interior , where it bifurcates .
The cellular walls of the sporangium blend with the bract along each side of the base of this sporangiophore .
The microspores occupy the upper part of the Lepidostrobus , and are usually triplospores , sometimes tetraspores .
The macrospores occupy the lowermost sporangia , are of large size , and are very remarkable from having their external surfaces clothed with numerous projecting caudate appendages , each one of which is slightly capitate at its extremity .
So far as the author is aware , this is an undescribed form of macrospore .
Two new forms of Lepidodendron are described from the Oldham beds , in one of which the medullary axis attains to an unusually large size , even in the young shoots ; whilst the other is remarkable for the magnitude of its leaves .
It is obvious that the plant which is the chief subject of the memoir is a true example of Corda 's genus so far as its woody axis is concerned ; whilst its bark and leaves are those of a Lotnatophloios , and its slender twigs are Lepidodendra .
The author also points out the probability that the plant had a true Stigmarian root .
The structure of these fossil types is compared with that of recent Lycopodiacece .
The vascular medullary cylinder is shown to be an aggregation of the foliar vascular bundles , so that the vascidar connexion between the leaves and the stem is maintained exclusively by means of these vessels , which thus correspond most closely with the central vascular axes of living Lycopods .
On the other hand , the exogenous layers do not communicate directly with the leaves in any way\#151 ; but are homologous with the corresponding layers in the Stigmarian root , in which latter they receive the vascular bundles from the rootlets .
The medullary cylinder does not enter the roots , but appears to terminate at the base of the stem , though the pith is prolonged through them .
Hence it seems probable that the nutritive matters were taken up from the soil by the Stigmarian rootlets , that they ascended into the Diploxyloid stem through the exogenous layer , but that , in order to reach the leaves , if conveyed by the vessels and not by the cellular tissues , they had to be transferred by endosmosis to 1872 .
] Dr. C. 11 .
A. Wright on Opium those of the medullary cylinder .
The bark of the fossil plants is compared with those of Lycopodium chamcecyparissus and Selaginella which two combined represent the former .
These discoveries necessitate some changes in generic nomenclature , since the several parts of the plant not only represent the three genera above mentioned , but also several others .
Meanwhile some other errors require correction .
Corda erroneously defined his genus Diploxylon as having no medullary rays , and Brongniart relied upon this distinction in separating Diploxylon from Sigillaria ; but no difference exists between the ligneous structures of the two genera , so far as Sigillaria is illustrated by Brongniart 's 5 .
elegans .
Corda , Brongniart , and King all agree in regarding Diploxylon ( which is identical with Witham 's Anabathra ) as belonging to the Gymnospermous Exogens .
The necessity for abandoning this separation of the plants in question from the , urged in the author 's previous memoir , is now made more obvious than before , the distinctions upon which the great French botanist relied in his classification being now shown to be such as mere differences of age can produce .
The author concludes from his own observations that the genera bathra , Lomatophloios , and Leptoxylon must be united .
Brongniart had already brought into one generic group Corda 's genera , Leptoxylon , and Calamoxylon , Goppert 's genus Pachyphyllum , and Sternberg 's genus Lepidophloios , giving the latter name to the whole .
Hence no less than six obsolete generic names are disposed of .
The author finally follows Brongniart in adopting the term Lepidophloios , and temporarily assigns to the plant described the trivial name of L. brevifolium .
The further relations of this genus to more ordinary forms of Lepidodendron require further investigation .
Much credit is due to G. Grieve , Esq. , of Burntisland , for the energy with which he has worked amongst the deposits at Burntisland ; and the author acknowledges his great obligations to that gentleman for liberal supplies of specimens for examination .
March 14 , 1872 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , D.C.L. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. \lt ; f Contributions to the History of the Opium Alkaloids .
Part IV .
" By C. R. A. Wright , D .Sc .
, Lecturer on Chemistry in St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
Received January 29,1872 .
S 1 .
On the Action of Hydriodic Acid on Morphia in presence of Phosphorus .
It has been shown in Part III .
of these researches* that when hydriodic s acid acts on codeia in presence of phosphorus , a series of products are ulti# Supra , p. 8 .

