On the Light of the Cassegrainiarn Telescope , compared with that of the Gregorian .
By Captain Henry Kater , Brigade-Major .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read May 27 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 206 .
] The author having remarked the performance of a Cassegrainian telescope , made by a self-taught artist at Ipswich , to be superior to what he believes is usually expected from telescopes of this construction , has been led to make a series of experiments on the comparative illumination given by the Cassegrainian compared with that obtained by the Gregorian construction .
For though the Cassegrainian form has been considered merely as the Gregorian disguised , and has been rarely adopted , in consequence of its inverting objects , a superior power of illumination , if correctly ascertained to exist , may prove a valuable property , in addition to its advantage of being considerably shorter than the Gregorian .
In the telescope first compared by MIajor Kater , the specula were cast at the same time , in the same metal , and to the same pattern , The magnifying powers of the two instruments were ascertained by experiment to be very nearly equal , but with a small excess on the side of the Cassegrainian .
The two telescopes were placed side by side , and pointed to the same object , which was a printed card , at the distance of fifty yards ; and as the brightness , as seen in the Cassegrainian , was far superior , its aperture was first reduced by a ring of pasteboard , and then gradually enlarged till the card appeared equally bright through both telescopes .
After the respective areas of aperture in each telescope had been measured , with due allowance for the light obstructed in each by the small mirror , that of the Cassegrainian was found to be to the Gregorian as 46 to 108 , or 3 to 7 nearly .
In the second comparison made by Mr. Kater , the Cassegrainian telescope had been made some time before the Gregorian , and its speculum had in consequence lost somewhat of its original polish .
But notwithstanding this source of disadvantage on the side of the Cassegrainian , a corresponding superiority again appeared in its power of illumination .
The areas of aperture were in this instance as 79 to 110 ; but as the magnifying powers were not equal but in the ratio of 108 to 182 , it was necessary to make further allowance , in proportion to the squares of these numbers ; so that the illuminating powers were found to be nearly as 3 to 2 .
From the mean of these experiments , and from consideration of all circumstances , the author conceives that the relative superiority of the Cassegrainian may be stated to be as 60 to 33 , or 20 to 11 .
With respect to the probable cause of the difference thus observed , Major Kater conjectures that it may possibly depend on the mutual interference of rays meeting in the same point , which it is possible may be in great measure dissipated when received by the small speculum in the Gregorian , after crossing in the principal focus ; while on the contrary , in the Cassegrainian , the loss of light from this source is avoided , since the small speculum in that construction receives the rays before they arrive at the focus , and before they become sufficiently concentrated to interfere with each other 's motion .
This conjecture , it is observed , derives additional support from a circumstance that has been observed with respect to refracting telescopes ; namely , that in a comparison between the simple astronomical telescope and a Galilean of equal aperture and power , the satellites and belts of Jupiter may be seem much more distinctly in the latter , where the rays are received by a concave lens before their intersection in the principal focus of the object-glass .

