FLOWERING PLANTS.\#151 ; DR. HOOKER .
Enumeration o the Plants hitherto collected in Kerguelen Island by the " Antarctic , " " Challenger , " and " British Transit o Venus " Expeditions .
I.\#151 ; Flowering Plants , Ferns , Lyand Characece .
By J. D. Hooker , P.B.S. 1 .
Ranunculus crassipes , Ilook.f .
Antarct .
224 , t. 81 .
Christmas Harbour , Observatory and Swain 's Bay , Boyal Sound ( a form with petioles 5-7 inches long ) .
I have nothing to add to what I have said of this species in the Antarctic Elora , beyond that I can hardly doubt its being a derivative form of the Euegian - natus .
, Sm .
, with which it agrees in habit and its thick-walled beaked carpels , but differs chiefly in its robustness and simple leaves .
R. has been found by Moseley in Marion Island , where it presents every character of the American plant .
2 .
Ranunculus trullifolius , PLooh.f .
FI .
Antarct .
226 , t. 82 A. In streamlets and lakes , Boyal Sound , Swain 's Bay , Betsy Cove ; , Fat on , Kidder .
( Euegia and the Ealklands ) .
Glaberrimus , eaulibus prostratis radicantibus .
longe crasse petiolata , obovato-oblonga trulliformia v. fere orbicularia , apice obtuse 3-5-dentata v. lobata , carno-sula , nervis obscnris ; auriculis petiolaribus membranaco-dilatatis .
Flores ad nodos solitarii , brevissime pedicellati .
Sepala 3 , orbicularia , concava , membranacea .
tala 3 , sepalis sequilonga , obovato-oblonga v. spathulata , 3-nervia , nervo medio medium versus fossa nectarifera instructo .
Stamina pauca .
Carpella numerosa ; matura cuneiformia , compressa , dorso incrassata , stylo gracili subulato .
I described this species in the Elora Antarctica from very imperfect specimens gathered by myself in the Ealklands in mid-winter , along with the very similar R. hydrophilus , Gaud .
, and from a careful examination of the remains of the only flower found , which resembled in petals , sepals , and stamens those of its neighbour , I supposed it to be closely allied to it .
Good specimens gathered by Cunningham in the Straits of Magalhaens , and by Eaton in Kerguelen , prove that it belongs to another section of the genus , differing from R. hydrophilus in the usually trimerous perianth and the long style of the flattened ripe carpels .
R. trullifolius is , in fact , referable to St. Hilaire 's genus Casalia ( now reduced to ) , and its nearest ally is R. bonariensis , Poiret ( B. Kunthii Trian .
and Planch .
) , which differs by its ovate crenate leaves , long-peduncled flowers , and absence of style in the ripe carpels .
R. hydrophilus , again , is probably a form of R. adscendens , St. Hil .
( R. c IS BOTANY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Collie , in Hook .
Bot. Beech .
Yoy .
p. 4 , t. ii .
) , which has similar minute subglobose ripe carpels without a style .
B. monant hos , Philippi of Chili , and B. Steud .
of Peru , are probably forms of B. trullifolius , which , as our figure shows , is a very variable plant in foliage and structure .
The Banunculus , sp. 3 , not in flower , of Kidder ( Bull .
U. S. Not .
Mus. 3 , 21 ) , of which Gray says it can hardly be a form of , no doubt is this , if , as I apprehend , the term caudate as applied to the leaves is a misprint for cordate .
Plate I. , Pigs .
1-5.\#151 ; Plants in different states ; of natural size ; 6 , 7 , reduced leaves and stipules ; 8 , sepal ; 9 , petal ; 10 and 11 , stamen ; 12 , immature , and 13 , mature carpels :\#151 ; all enlarged .
3 .
Ranunculus Moseleyi , HooTc.f.pusillus , glaberrimus , acaulis , foliis radicalibus , petiolo in laminam obovatam v. oblongam integerrimam dilatato , floribus solitariis pedunculatis minutis 3-4-meris , petalis lineari-obovatis obtusis eglandulosis , staminibus 4-7 , carpellis 10-12 maturis oblique subglobosis in stylum brevem gracilem abrupt attenuatis.\#151 ; Banunculus an nov .
sp. ; Oliver , in Journ. Linn. Soc. XIY .
, 389 .
In the lake at Christmas Harbour , Moseley .
A very diminutive species , resembling in size and habit B. limoselloides , Muell , of Australia , but differing in the carpels , \amp ; c. In the latter respect it more nearly approaches B. crassipes , from which it differs in all other respects .
Its allies are , no doubt , to be found amongst the S. American water-loving species .
Plate II .
, Pig .
1\#151 ; 1 and 2 , plants of natural size ; 3 , leaf ; 4 , flower ; 5 , sepal ; 6 , petal ; 7 , stamen ; 8 , immature ; and 9 , mature carpel:\#151 ; all enlarged .
4 .
Pringlea antiscorbutica , Br .
MSS .
FI .
Antarct .
238 , t. 90 , 91 ; Kidder in Bull .
77 .
S. Not .
Mus. , No. 321 ; Oliver in Journ. Linn. Soc. XIY .
, 389 ; Dyer in Broc .
Linn. Soc. 1874 , xxxiv .
; llook .
f. 1 .
c. Throughout the island.\#151 ; ( Marion , Crozets , and Heard Islands ) .
Sepala lineari-oblonga , obtusa , membranacea , pilosa .
Betala 0 in exemplaribus perplurimis a nobis scrutatis , in paucis 1-4 , unguiculata , apice roseo-tincta , inconspicua , caduca .
Stamina 6 , subaequalia , filamentis elongatis complanatis , 4 longioribus per paria sepalis anticis posticisque opposita ; antherae magnae , lineari-oblongae , virescentes ; pollen sphericum .
Disci glandulae 0 v. valde inconspicuae .
Ovarium oblongum , hirsutum , 2-loculare , carpellis lateralibus ; stylus brevis , validus , glaber , stigmate capitato obscure 2-lobo dense villoso .
In the Proceedings of the Linnaean Society 1874 , p. xxxiv , I have indicated the evidence ol Bringlea being a wind-fertilized member of a natural order most or all the species of which are insect-fertilized .
These indications are the usual absence of petals and disk-glands , the exserted anthers and long-tufted papillae of the stigma , to which is to be added the absence of winged insects in Kerguelen Island .
In reference to the last statement , it is a curious fact that wingless flies abound in the FLO WEEING PLANTS.\#151 ; DE .
HOOKEE .
island , and on this very plant .
Moseley , Journ. Linn. Soc. xv .
, 54 , in his notes on Kerguelen botany , mentions an apterous fly as big as a blow-fly , nestling at the base of the leaves of Fringleaand laying its eggs in the fluid which is caught there ; every cabbage yielding ten or a dozen specimens .
He adds that he did not observe whether it climbs to the inflorescence in sunny weather .
Mr. A. W. Bennett , Proc. Linn. Soc. 1874 , xxxix .
, has described the pollen of Fringlea as differing from that of nearly all other Crucifers in being much smaller and perfectly spherical , instead of ellipsoid with three furrows .
This he considers to be a striking confirmation of my suggestion that the plant is wind-fertilized , and which is further confirmed by the total absence of hairs on the style .
Moseley found one plant with 28 flower-stalks , three of the one season growth , the others appearing to belong to eight preceding seasons .
It is a remarkable fact that all attempts to grow this plant in England , Scotland , and Ireland have failed ; the young plants , after attaining a height of a few inches and a good crown of leaves , have invariably succumbed to the combined effects of summer 's heat , and the attacks of the common parasite fungus , , which infests the Capsella Bursa-past oris .
Some few , out of many hundreds , sown at different seasons and under very varied conditions , survived one winter , but perished in the following summer .
Plate II .
, Pig .
3.\#151 ; 1 , 2 , 3 , apetalous flowers ; 4 , monopetalous , and 5 , tripetal-ous flowers ; 6 , petal ; 7 , ovary ; 8 , the same laid open ; 9 , ovule:\#151 ; all .
5 .
Colobanthus kerguelensis , H Fl .
Antarct .
249 , t. 92 .
Christmas Harbour , Swain 's Bay , \amp ; c. ( Heard Island , .
) ( Stellaria media L. ) Introduced by sealers .
{ Cerastium triviale , Link .
) Introduced by sealers .
6 .
Lyallia kerguelensis , IIoolc .
f. Fl .
Antarct .
548 , t. 122 ; Kidder in Bull .
U.S. Not .
Mus. , No. 3 .
, 22 .
Oliver in Journ. Linn. XIV .
390 .
Dyer in Froc .
Linn. Soc. 1874 , xxxiv .
Christmas Harbour and Boyal Sound .
The flowers have been described from Kidder 's specimens by Asa Gray , and from Moseley 's by Oliver and Dyer , the descriptions agreeing well .
The stamens , which appear to be almost constantly three and hypogynous , are stated by Oliver to be variable in position .
Kidder retains it in , but Bentham and I had long previously placed it in Caryophyllece in the Genera Plantarum and next to Fy-cnophyllum , a position which the discovery of the flowers confirms .
It has many of the characters of Colobanthus , especially the androecium .
Plate II .
, Eig .
2.\#151 ; 1 , plant , of natural size ; 2 , leaves ; 3 , flower and bract ; 4 , flower laid open ; 5 , stamen :\#151 ; all enlarged .
7 .
Montia fontana , L. , # Common in wet places .
( Marion Island , and widely distributed m the N. and S. temperate regions ) .
8 .
Acaena affinis , Hook./ .
FI .
Antarct.268 , t. 96 B. Common throughout the island .
( Marion and the Crozet Islands ) .
Called Kerguelen 's tea , and used as a febrifuge by whalers ( Kidder ) .
Unlike the Fringleaand Co tula , this plant has grown and flowered at Kew from roots sent by Moseley .
9 .
Oallitriche VGrna , B. ; Subsp .
C. obtusangula , ; Begelm .
Monog .
Gatt .
Callit .
54 .
C. antarctica , Fngelm .
ex Beg elm .
1 .
c. ; Kidder in Bull .
U.S. Not .
Mus. , No. 3 , 23 .
C. verna , Book./ .
Antarct .
272 .
Common in wet places .
( Marion and Heard Islands , Moseley , and widely distributed in the N. and S. temperate regions ) .
Prom a drawing of the ripe fruit which I made when in Kerguelen in 1840 , I have no hesitation in referring this to Subspecies as Hegelmeyer did from his examination of my dried specimens .
The fruit lobes are nearly semi-circular , and each pair is united by about two thirds of their faces .
The free portions are obtusely trigonous at the back .
Two forms are common in Kerguelen , as elsewhere in the south temperate zone , one aquatic with long stem and proportionally large spathulate leaves , the other smaller , terrestrial , suberect , with obovate or oblong leaves ; this flowers the most abundantly .
10 .
Tilloea moschata , I\gt ; .
C. Bulliarda moschata , TJrv .
Abundant in moist places near the sea .
( Marion Island , Moseley , Crozets , Kidder ; widely spread in high southern latitudes ) .
11 .
Azorella Selago , Booh.f .
FI .
Antarct .
284 , t. 99 .
Yery abundant throughout the island .
( Marion and Heard Islands , Moseley ; Crozets , Kidder ; Puegia ; Mac Quarry Island .
) Kidder remarks that the flowers are greenish yellow , not pale pink as I found them to be in winter .
Also , that the leaves have not the bristles on the faces of the lobes as figured in the Plora Antarctica .
I find them on specimens from all localities .
Moseley observes , in reference to this plant at Marion Island , that the mounds it forms evidently retain , and store up a considerable amount of sun 's heat , and that this fact probably explains its peculiar mode and form of growth , and that of many otherwise widely different Antarctic plants .
He found that a thermometer plunged into the heart of a hummock rose to 50 ' , when the temperature of the air was 45 ' .
12 .
Galium antarcticum , BooJcf .
FI .
Antarct .
303 his .
Common , but not found at Christmas Harbour .
( Crozets , Kidder ; Puegia and Palkland Islands .
) Kidder remarks that the flowers are distinctly pedicelled , and as often 4- as 3-msrous , and even 5-merous ones occur .
Eaton 's specimens confirm this .
FLOWERING PLANTS.\#151 ; DR. HOOKER .
13 .
Cotula ( Leptinella ) plumosa , 26 and 308 , t. 20 .
On cliffs , especially near the sea , often forming immense luxuriant blue-green patches where the soil is enriched hy the dung of birds and seals .
( Crozets , Kidder Lord Auckland , Campbell 's , and Mac Quarry Islands .
) Reputed hy the whalers to he a prompt and effectual emetic .
Through a typographical omission of the word not at p. 308 of the Antarctic Elora , this plant is stated to he found on the continent of America .
The genus Leptinella is reduced to a Cotula in the Genera Plantarum .
This plant , like the , proved so impatient of heat in this country , that of innumerable seedlings raised at Kew to several inches high all perished .
14 .
Limosella aquatica , L. Common in the freshwater lagoon at Christmas Harbour .
( Euegia and all temperate regions .
) A very small form , with the leaf-blade hardly broader than the petiole .
Stamens included .
Ovary globose ; style rather long .
15 .
Juncus scheuzerioides , Gaud .
; Flor. .
, 79 , 358 .
Common in spongy places .
( Euegia , the Ealkland , Lord Auckland , and Camphell 's Islands .
) 16 .
Uncinia compacta , Br .
; Boott in Hook .
f. FI .
, ii .
103 , t. 153 B. Royal Sound and Observatory Bay , M , Baton .
( Mountains of Tasmania and New Zealand .
) 17 .
Deschampsia antarctica , Hook .
Ic .
FI .
t. 150 ( Aira ) ; Hook .
f. FI .
Antarct .
377 , t. 133 .
Common and ascending to considerable altitudes .
( Euegia , Ealkland Islands , South Shetlands .
) A true Beschampsia , as that genus is now defined , hy its 4-toothed flowering glume and free caryopsis , Munro .
18 .
Agrostis magellanica , Lamk.373 .
A. antarctica , ibid. 373 , t. 132 .
A multicaulis , ibid. 95 .
Common throughout the island .
( Marion and Heard Islands , Moseley ; Chili , Euegia , Ealkland , and Campbell 's Islands .
) Since the publication of this plant as A. , I have examined a specimen of Lamarck 's A. magellanica named by Nees in Arnott 's Herbarium , and find it to he identical .
Eurther , Munro informs me that it is fairly described hy Trinius in his " Agrostideae , " and hy Kunth in his supplemental volume ( p. 175 ) from a Lamarckian specimen ; he adds that the Kerguelen specimens agree with these descriptions , except in the flowering glume being larger and much longer than the ovary .
This glume is sometimes obtuse or rounded , at others deeply divided .
The beard on the callus , which is very indistinct on the Kerguelen 's plant , is conspicuous on some Euegian ones .
19 .
Poa Cookii , FLook.f .
; Ft. Antarct .
382 , t. 139 ( Festuca ) .
Forma 1 .
; foliis culmum superantibus , panicula elongata interrupts .
Forma 2 .
; foliis culmum superantibus v. sequantibus acuminatis pungentibus , panicula densa sub-cylindracea .
Forma 3 .
; foliis culmum sequantibus subacutis y. obtusis , panicula minore laxiore , spiculis paucifloris coloratis .
Abundant and ascending to a considerable height:\#151 ; Forma 1 .
Christmas Harbour ; Forma 3 .
Royal Sound , on a high hill , Fciton .
( Marion and Heard Islands , Moseley ' ) .
This fine grass should , unquestionably , be referred to Foa ( as now defined by the compressed flowering glume , \amp ; c. ) , along with its near congener * of Fuegia and the Falklands , from which it differs , amongst other characters , in never forming tussocks .
It is scarcely specifically distinct from , Hook , f. Handbook of N. Z. Flora 338 ( Festuca foliosa , FI .
Antarct .
i. 99 , t. 55 ; FI .
Nov. Zealcl .
i. 308 ) ; and this , again , from the Fuegian Foa , Nees ( Festuca f uegiana , Antarct .
380 ) .
The flowering glumes are often obscurely , or not at all toothed .
The spikelets are 3-5-flowered and in .
long ( not eight lines as misprinted for three lines in the Antarctic Flora ) .
A. Gray remarks of Kidder 's specimens that they seem to be male only .
Foa pratensis , L. Introduced by sealers .
Poa annua , L. Introduced by sealers .
20 .
Festuca erecta , 1\gt ; * TJrv .
Common and ascending to a considerable elevation .
( Fuegia and the Falkland Islands .
) Often forming tussocks ; panicles green or purplish .
21 .
Festuca kerguelensis , Hook .
f. Triodia kerguelensis , Antarct .
379 , t. 138 ( Foa ) .
Common and ascending to 2,000 feet .
Spikelets sometimes 1-flowered .
A very variable grass in stature , evidently allied to F.erecta , and more nearly still to scop aria ( FI .
Antarct .
98 ; FI .
Nov. Zeald .
i. 308 ) , of which possibly it is a dwarf form , as suggested in the Handbook of the New Zealand Flora , p. 341 .
The naked base of the flowering glume , however , will always distinguish all the specimens I have examined .
Filices .
l. Cystopteris fragilis , Femh .
Crevices of rocks near the hill-tops , Royal Sound , Kidder , ( Fuegia , 1 alklands , and N. and S. temperate regions generally .
) The name Poa ccespitosa being occupied by Forster , though it is doubtful to what species it applies , I propose that of flabellatafor the Tussock grass , which is the Festuca , Lamk .
FELICES , LYCOPODIACEiE , CHARACEJE.\#151 ; DR. HOOKER . .
2 .
Lomaria alpina , Spreng .
Common , often forming large beds , but not found at Christmas Harbour .
( Marion Island , Moseley ; Crozets , Kidderall the colder S. temperate regions .
) 3 .
Polypodium ( Grammitis ) australe , Crevices of rocks , Observatory Bay , Kidd , Eaton .
( Marion Island , Moseley ; Puegia , and all the colder S. temperate regions .
) 4 .
Polypodium vulgar , L. var .
Eatoni , , venis pellucidis .
Crevices of rocks by running streams , Observatory Bay , , Eaton .
( Marion Island , Moseley ; S. Africa ; Sandwich Islands , and N. temperate hemisphere .
) This pellucid-nerved variety only occurs elsewhere in the Sandwich Islands .
Lycopodiaceve .
5 .
Lycopodum clavatum , A. , var .
magellanicum ; Kook .
f. FI . .
, 113 .
L. magellanicum , Sioartz .
Not uncommon throughout the island , but not met with at Christmas Harbour .
( Var. magellanicum , Marion Island , Moseley ; Euegia , and all the colder S. temperate regions .
The typical L. clavatum inhabits all northern cold damp climates .
6 .
Lycopodium Selago , L. var .
Saururus , Hook .
f. El . .
394 .
L. Saururus , Lamk .
Not uncommon throughout the island .
( Var. , Marion Island , Moseley ; Tristan d'Acunha , St. Helena , Bourbon , Peru .
The typical form inhabits all damp cold climates .
) Char ace ( B. 7 .
Nitella antarctica , Braun .
N. Hookeri , Beinsch in Journ. Linn. Soc. xv .
219 .
Cliara flexilis , Linn ; PI .
Antarct .
395 .
In the Lake at Christmas Harbour ; and in that next but one to the Observatory , in Observatory Bay , Eaton .
-ans .
of Venus Exped._____________- Kerguelen Island .
___________________Botany , PI.11 .
Pringlea antisconbutica , Hkf .
.JRtch ael.etHth .
M\amp ; N.HanWtimp .
Botany , PI .
I. aans .
o f Venus Expect Kerguelen Island .
J-NEitcL LtA .
RANUNCULUS THULLIFOLIUS , Hook.f .
Fitch , imp .

