1 .
" On the Compensations of Polarized Light , with the descrip ?
tion of a Polarimeter for Measuring Degrees of Polarization .
" By Sir David Brewster , K.H. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and V.P.R.S. Ed. In four papers published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1830 , the author maintained , in opposition to the prevailing theory , that light either reflected or refracted at angles different from that at which it is completely polarized , does not consist of two portions , one completely polarized , and the other completely unpolarized , but that every portion of it has the same physical property , having approximated in an equal degree to the state of complete polarization .
This conclusion , which had been derived from reasoning on the hy ?
pothesis that a pencil of light , composed of two pencils polarized respectively at angles of -fand ?
45 ?
with the plane of reflexion , was equivalent to a pencil of common light , is confirmed in this paper by experiment , made with common light itself , reflected from different parts of the atmosphere , and from which the uniaxal or biaxal systems of rings were obtained .
On placing such a system between light partially polarized in an opposite plane , the author found that the rings disappeared , the direct system being seen on one side of the plane of disappearance , and the complementary system on the other side .
In this experiment the polarization of the light in one plane was compensated by the polarization of the same light in the opposite plane ; and , consequently , both the pencils , which had undergone the two successive polarizing actions , had received the same degree of polarization in opposite planes ; and in virtue of these two equal and opposite polarizations , the light at the point of compensation , where the system of rings disappeared , had been re ?
stored from partially polarized to common light ; and the light on each side of this point of compensation was in opposite states of partial polarization .
In order to give a distinct view of the nature of this experiment , the author details the phenomena observed at particular angles of incidence on glass .
From the results at an angle of incidence of 24 ?
, the ray suffering one refraction at 80 ?
, and a second reflexion at 83§§ , he concludes that the compensation which takes place is produced neither by an equality of oppositely polarized rays , nor by a proportional admixture of common light , but by equal and oppo ?
site physical states of the whole pencil , whether reflected or re ?
fracted .
The remarkable phenomena produced at an angle of incidence on glass of 82§ 44 ' ( at which angle cos ( i -f i ' ) = cos2 ( i -f * ' ) ) , led the author to the construction of what he terms the compensating rhomb , consisting of a well annealed rhomb of glass , or any other uncrystallized substance , having the angles of its base 130§ 25 ' and 46§ 35 ' respectively , when the index of refraction is 1*525 .
When a ray of light is incident upon the first surface at an angle of 82§ 44 ' , ex ?
actly one-half of it is reflected ; and the other half , after refraction , is reflected at the second surface , and emerges perpendicularly to the adjacent surface , without suffering refraction ; each portion having , in the first instance , the same quantity of polarized light .
The second portion is found , on examination , to be in the state of common light , although the ray at the second incidence consisted of more than one-half of polarized light .
Hence if the pencil , pre ?
viously to reflexion at the second surface , consist of 145 rays of polarized light , and 188 of common light , the effect of a single re ?
flexion must be to depolarize polarized light , and to produce no change whatever upon common light , a property of a reflecting surface never yet recognized , and incompatible with all our present knowledge on the subject of the polarization of light .
The author then describes an instrument which he has invented for the purpose of accurately measuring the degrees of polarization , and which he therefore terms a Polarimeter .
It consists of two parts ; one of which is intended to produce a ray of compensation having a physical character susceptible of numerical expression , and the other to produce polarized bands , or rectilineal isochromatic lines , the extinction of which indicates that the compensation is effected .
The construction and mode of operation of this instrument are , by the aid of figures , described and explained .
The following is the general law established by these researches ; namely , that the compensations of polarized light are produced by equal and opposite rotations of the planes of polarization .
Thus , when a ray of common light is incident , at any angle , upon the polished surface of a transparent body , the whole of the reflected pencil suffers a physical change , bringing it more or less into a state of complete polarization , in virtue of which change its planes of polari ?
zation are more or less turned into the plane of reflexion ; while the whole of the refracted pencil has suffered a similar , but opposite change , in virtue of which its planes of polarization are turned more or less into a plane perpendicular to the plane of reflexion .
The author then enters into a theoretical investigation of the subject , and concludes by pointing out a few of the numerous applica ?
tions of his theory .

