XVII .
Some further Observations on Atmospherical Refraction .
By Stephen Groombridge , Esq. F. R S , Read March 31 , 1814 .
IN my former paper on atmospherical refraction , communicated to the Royal Society by my late friend , Dr. MASKELYNE , I considered the few observations made below 80 ?
of zenitht distance , as not sufficiently to be depended on , for the computation of a general formula of refraction : and I therefore used r Ursa Majoris ( 78 ?
o1 ' zen .
dis .
) as the lowest star for that purpose .
Having since applied the computed refraction from the formula thence obtained , to observations of stars below 80o , I have noticed , that such stars so corrected , appeared to be further from the zenith below the Pole , than they ought to have been , from the observations above the Pole : and therefore that the refraction was less at those distances from the , zenith , than I had assumed .
This has induced me , in the years 1811 and 1812 , to make a course of observations of stars below the Pole , above 80 ?
zenith distance ; and as near to the horizon , as the trees in Greenwich Park would permit ; these being higher than the level of my Observatory .
It may also be remarked , that those stars in my former table below 80 ?
, produce the co-latitude in excess ; as a confirmation , that the same formula will not apply to those larger arcs , where , from the rapid increase of the tanlgents , a small error in the assumed quantity becomes more sensible .
Although various hypotheses may be formed , from the known density and temrn perature of the atmosphere ; and from these causes may be computed the effect they should have on a ray of light passing through the same : yet we must resort to observation , for the verification of the theory ; and reduce the quantity so found , to the most simple and convenient formula .
I shall proceed to deduce , from this course of observations , such formulae as will appear to result , for the computation of the refraction ; from the zenith , to the lowest star which I have observed : these may be considered as sufficient for the observation of the sun at the winter solstice , in high latitudes ; since those of the moon , from its great parallax , and the planets from their general invisibility , would probably not be attempted .
Never- ' theless , it is to be wished , as a matter of curiosity , or from which some useful deductions might be made , that in those Observatories , wherein from their elevated situations it might be practicable , the true quantity of refraction should be ascertained to the horizon .
Of all the formule for computing the mean refraction , that proposed and used by Dr. BRADLEY , is the most convenient and applicable for the practical astronomler .
But as it is now acknowledged , that the numbers he had assumed for the coefficient of r ( the refraction ; ) and of x ( the quantity at 45 ?
) were too small : their real values will appear to be the mean of several arcs , and such as I now propose to be adopted .
I have found , that the same formula will serve to 87* of zenith distance ; possibly this might not happen in low situations , where the height of the vapours would form a greater angle with the horizon : yet in more elevated places , we may reasonably suppose , that a general formula might be carried nearly to the horizon .
338 In the two annexed tables are given the mean of the observed zenith distances of the several stars ; and in the next column the mean refraction , computed from the formula which I proposed in my former paper ; viz. tang .
z3 5rx 58 " , 192 : and which has been applied to these observations , corrected for the barometer and thermometer .
In the following column , the error or difference is shown , between the computed and real zenith distances ; the assumed mean refraction , corrected by these errors , will give the mean refraction , which should have been applied .
From these last quantities are deduced the respective values of ( y ) the coefficient of r , and of x : and from the mean of the sixteen stars , the resulting numbers will bay == 6J329g56 , x=,58."132967 .
Having therefore reduced the whole sixteen by these mean values ofy and x ; the error or difference is noted , when compared with the corrected mean refraction which should arise from observatibn .
On a review of these errors , and noticing the mean state of the thermometer for each star , the errors seem to indicate a small correction .
Iassumed in my former paper , that the refraction as affected by the thermometer , varied in an arithmetical ratio of , ooei for each degree of FAHRENHEIT'S scale ; and the mean state to be at 45 ?
for the thermometer without .
Continuing the same mean state , and changing the ratio to , oogo , these errors will be affected rIo of the refraction , for each degree above and below 45 ' ; which being applied , will reduce the final error , as shown in the last column .
In the same manner I proceeded to find the values ofy and x , from the six lower stars , contained in the second table ; but the respective values of both y and x were variable , and each in a decreasing ratio .
To discover the law of variation for each , would have been complex ; therefore retaining the value of x as general , I found y to vary as the minutes of each degree above 87 ?
x , oo462 ; the co-efficient ( y ) of r when so reduced is given ; the mean refraction resulting , is contained in the following column ; and being corrected for the new factors of the thermometer , there remains the final error .
With a view to assist me in ascertaining whether the refractions were affected by local vapours , Dr. BRINKLEY has kindly communicated to me some observations of low stars ; which when reduced by the same formula do not materially diffrr from my own .
12 Can .
Ven .
at 87 ? ?
2 ' and a Lyrae at 87 ? ?
42 ' of which there are the greater number of observations , the former gives the same result within half a second , and the latter ii .
Several of the fixed Observatories in Europe being situated in sufficiently high latitudes to obtain the elevation of the pole with much correctness ; we are thence enabled , by the circumpolar stars , to find the true quantity of refraction , for all zenith distances : and this having been so ascertained , we may apply the same to the observed zenith distance of the sun , at the winter solstice , as a test of its accuracy .
With the smaller quantities of refraction , which were used by Dr. BRADLEY and others , fifty years since , it was not possible , that the latitude deduced from the elevation of the pole , and the mean of the solstices , could agree ; the distance of the pole from the equator , so computed , would be less than go9 .
Hence also , the two solstices would show an error of double that difference in the obliquity of the ecliptic , when obtained from the greatest and least zenith distances of the sun .
The small number of observations I have been able to make of the sun , to ascertain the agreement of the two solstices , are subjoined ; these appear to confirm the refraction , as deduced from the circumpolar stars .
In the course of my observations I have noticed , that applying the correction for the thermometer without , gives the most accurate result .
The difference is very sensible in great zenith distances , from the greater quantity of refraction ; and we may reasonably infer , that when the front shutter of the Observatory is opened , the horizontal current of the air is of the same tenmperature as without ; although from the short time of the shutter being opened , during the observation , it is not indicated by the thermometer in the telescope .
I have therefore constantly used the thermometer without , for the correction , when I have opened the front shutter ; but on all other occasions , I have applied the correction for the thermometer within .
The instrument is protected from the horizontal current of air , when the sloping shutters in the roof only are opened ; the front shutters being five feet above the graduated circle .
Having formerly proposed certain factors for the thermometrical correction of the refraction , and now finding them relatively the same for the thermometer within and without , changing the ratio for each degree of FAHRENHEIT r ooo I shall adopt , hereafter , the following formula .
Putting h for the degree of the scale ; then for the thermometer within , 49h ?
x , oo23 when below the mean ; 49-- , f x,002o when above the mean : and for the thermometer without , 45 ?
h ?
0020 ; will produce the respective factors .
When 1A is less than the mean , these will be positive ; when greater than the mean , negative .
These factors of different values will be nearly the same for the thermometer within and without , in summer ; when the temperatures approximate : but in winter , when the temperatures may differ 6 ?
or 8 ?
, the factors will vary accordingly .
It may therefore not be material , when the quantity of refraction is small , not exceeding i-t ' , whether the correction is applied for the thermometer within or without ; but when the temperature within is supposed to be affected by the horizontal current from without , I should recommend , in all such cases , the use of the latter correction .
To make a direct comparison of these refractions with the French tables , it may be objected , that the latter being computed for the metrical barometer 0,760 m. , which is equal to 29,93 inches of our barometer , the mean refraction from the proposed formula should be increased by the factor +- , oI 1 ; since we reckon the mean state at 29,60 inches : but , the metrical thermometer at + lo being equal to ours at 50 ?
; and the mean state being determined from observation , to be 45 ?
of FAHRENHEIT ; the factor for 50e will be , o1oo ; which will nearly compensate the factor for the barometer .
I have therefore compared the mean refractions resulting from my formulae , with those of the French tables , from 80 ?
to go ?
: excepting the two last , the difference is not considerable ; and whether these arise from defect in the formule , or from local causes , can only be determined by observation .
On comparing the refractions , now proposed , with my former deductions , they will not differ one second at 81 ? .
At 72 ?
the present is of a second less than the former ; and at 74 50 ' the zenith distance of the winter solstice , o , " i8 must be deducted as a correction .
It will appear on inspection of 342 the second table , that P Persei at 88 ? ?
1 ' requires but a small equation ( 2",41 ) when computed from my former numbers ; and at 88 ?
both these formulxe will coincide .
I had therefore , in my former paper , determined too hastily , that the formula proposed would agree with observation so far as 88 ?
; not having then discovered the discrepancies between 80 ?
and 88 ?
, which are corrected by the present formula .
In order to facilitate the computation of the true refraction , it is required to form a table of mean refractions from certain formula .
This may appear difficult at the first view ; since every refraction must become equal to , tang .
z -yr x x ; and unless r is assumed very nearly , several operations may be necessary before the differences will vanish .
However , proceeding in small arcs of lo ' to 70 ?
, of 5 ' to 86 ?
, of 4 ' to 88 ?
, of 3 ' to 89 ?
, and of 2 ' thence to the horizon , the second differences of the variation of these arcs may always be taken by inspection and the resulting refraction will be equal to that assumed , in one operation .
The correction for the barometer and thermometer will be the sum of the two factors in the annexed tables , into the mean refraction : and the product added thereto , according to the algebraic sign of their sum , will give the true refraction .
This method is more expeditious , than by logarithms ; no other tables of reference being required : and the computation will be effected with a small number of figures ; which is an object I have constantly had in view .
S. GRO)MB1BRIDGE .
Blackheath , 31 January , 1814 .

