An Extract of a Letter , Written by David von der Beck , a German Philosopher and Physician at Minden , to Doctor Langelott , Chief Physician to his Highness the Duke of Holstein now Regent , concerning the Principles and Causes of the Volatilisation of Salt of Tartar and other Fixed Salts : Printed at Hamburg , 1672 .
THis Learned Author , having exploded the Useless and Empty terms of Faculties , Qualities , &amp;c. and recommended the Investigation of Nature by Experiments guided by Reason ; commends , for the practice of this latter , that excellent Naturalist and Physician , Dr. Joel Langelott , in that Discourse of his , touching the great Use of Digestion , Fermentation , and Grinding in Chemistry ; of which a Breviate was given in Numb. 87 .
of these Tracts .
Out of which Discourse he chooses , before all , to elucidate that part , which treats of the Volatilisation of Salt of Tartar , as a Subject , which he had likewise considered and inquired into .
Having therefore ( as he affirms , and as will appear by the sequel , ) formerly taken pains in the like Fermentation of Tartar for the Volatilizing the Fixed Salt thereof , he endeavours here to declare his thoughts about theCauses of his undertaking that labour , and of the Manner how that Volatilisation is performed .
In the doing of which he labours to show , first , The Causes of the Fixation of the Salt of Tartar : Secondly , The Reasons of the Volatilisation : And lastly , what degree of Volatility the Salt of Tartar hath acquired in that Fermentation made with its own Ferment .
As to the first , he begins with blaming those , that divide Salts into Fixed and Volatil , forasmuch as , in his opinion , that Division is unknown to Nature , there being not to be formally found in any Body before Calcination any Fixed Salt , such as the Alcalisate Salt of Tartar and other Fixed Salts are , produced by Calcination .
He therefore informs us , That Salts that are Volatile before Incineration , are by the action of the Fire , as the Efficient , so colliquated among themselves and with the Earthy particles , as to be fixed thereby .
For the clearing of which , he presupposes with some others , that there are Two kinds of Salts , an Alcali and an Acid , as the genuine Instruments of Nature , by which the several Kinds and Seeds of things are put sorth , and which every where are employed in the Germination of Plants , and the first Conceptions of Animals , and in all the beginnings of Fermentations .
These two Salts he affirms to be both Volatile , and therefore easily resoluble by the supervening Salt of the Air : since it appears , that all Vegetables , especially Aromaticks , if they be any considerable time exposed to the Air , loose their Salts ; and that Wood in particular , by the action of the Air , consuming the Volatil Salt , doth in time quite moulder away .
Whilst therefore these Salts are loosened and set at liberty by the fire , ( for else they would not act , ) they begin to operate on one another ; the Volatil Acid , whilst it works upon the volatil Alcali , fixes it , and they are colliquated together .
Which operation of Nature being well observed , it will be manifest , that that received Axiom , Things Volatil are fixed by those that are Fixed , and things Fixed rendred volatil by those that are Volatil , is false .
Now , that Volatil Salts are consumed by the Air , and colliquated by Fire , is so notorious , that Common people are wont to sink in water such Timber as they would preserve from putrefaction , thereby to keep it from Air , and to harden it to a great degree for strong supports of buildings .
Hence also they slightly burn the ends of Timber to be set in the ground , that so by the Fusion made by Fire the Volatil Salts , which by the accession of the moisture of the Earth would easily be consumed to the corruption of the Timber , may catch and fix one an other .
For which reason also , namely the fusion of the same volatil Salts , Ship-wrights are wont to burn the lowermost ermost part of Ship ; that lies under water .
And to use a very common Instance , Soot ; it is known , that whilst the Wood is burning , the smoke ascends , wherein the two Volatil Salts are contained , that coagulate one another into Soot , which two Salts may thence easily be separated and made visible ; and these Volatil Salts , constituting the smoke and the soot , rise so long , until the wood be quite reduced to Ashes , in which the remaining Volatil Salts are colliquated to a Fixed Salt , easily to be wash't out by water .
These two Volatil Salts therefore afford the matter , of which the Fixed Salt is made by means of the Fire : Whence it is evident , that we must , ( as really we do , ) obtain so much the more Fixed Salt , the more Volatil Salt there was before Incineration in the Mixed Body ; as also , why out of herbs , freshly burot to ashes , we get a greater quantity of Fixed Salt , than when they have been dried up ; because the Air by its operation ( which is somewhat advanced by the moisture in the plant it self , dissolving the Salts , ) hath robbed them of the greatest part of their Volatil Salts .
Upon which same account , wood decayed and moulder 'd away contains almost no Fixed Salt , as it hath also lost almost all its weight .
Having thus showed , that before Incineration there is found in Mixed bodies no Fixed Alcalisat Salt at all , and how the Volatil Salts by calcination are brought to fusion and so fixed ; the Author , further to make out the Fixation of such Volatil Salts , takes notice of the Mixture of Earthy parts in such bodies ; some of which , when those two Volatil Salts , thus opened by the Fire , act on one an other , are con-coagulated with them .
Which he conceives to be the case , when the said two Salts being concreted in the Kidneys , they by their asperity wound their sanguineous Vessels ( whence the Nephritique pain , ) and so coagulate together with them the extravasated Blood , which makes the Stone of the Kidneys reddish ; as the Stone of the Bladder is whitish from the mucous substance of the bladder , therefore given it by nature , lest the sharp Urine by working upon its membrans should cause pain , being coagulated together .
And so he observes , that the Stones concreted in the Bladder of Gall , taste bitter by reason of the Gall that is coagulated .
This Earth then , when by the Fire'tis intimately united with the Salts , and has been in a manner vitrified with them , keeps them so close together , that they can no more rise and fly away than birds fastened to a rock ; those Salts being rendred so fix , that by a gentle fire they are not so much as at all moved ; by a strong one , brought to fusion ; and , united with a considerable quantity of Earthy particles , by an extreme degree of heat vitrified .
So if you mix fixed Salt of Tartar with Cinnaber of Antimony , or with Quicksilver , all the Quicksilver , though a very ponderous body , will pass into the Retort , but the Salt of Tartar by reason of its Earth remain at the bottom of the Vessel .
Whence he esteems it evident , that the Fixed Alcalies , especially that of Tartar , cannot , by reason of the colliquation of the Earthy parts , penetrate into bodies to be dissolved , nor consequently remove the inmost seeds of Diseases .
Now , in the second place , though the Volatilizing such Fixed Salts , and particularly that of Tartar , have been hitherto found a very difficult work ; yet doth our Author conceive it would be very easy , if we took but Nature for our Guide , and but separated from Salt of Tartar the Fixing Earth , that has been proved to be mixed with it .
For the doing of which he refers to the prescript of Dr. Langelot , requiring that the Fixed Salt of Tartar be mixed with its genuine Ferment , viz. crude Tartar , or ( if in the Fermentation you have a mind to see the grape like bubles ) Creme of Tartar , and so exposed to fermentation .
In which commixture of Ferment he would have this especially observed , that it be mixed to the very degree of Saturation , and until the fermenting agitation and the motion of the saline particles do cease , as a sign , that there is not any particle of the fixed salt of Tartar left un-conjoined with the acid particles of the Crude Tartar or its Creme , nor any acid part of the crude Tartar not Saturated by the Fixed Salt .
Which being observed , the Distillation will , the action of the Salin particles being thus stopped , the more securely be done .
Mean time , that only the Acid particles of the crude Tartar are laid hold on by the Fixed Salt , and not the Alcalisat , he promises a proof of hereafter .
But since the main Question is about the New Volatilisation of the Fixed Salts , the Author is altogether persuaded , that in his Fermentation of Tartar it is not chiefly the very Fixed Alcali of Tartar that is again volatilised , but rather the added Ferment , which is the Crude Tartar .
For in this crude Tartar , though there be no fix't Salt in it , ( which he hath asserted generally of all Mixts , ) yet the volatil Alcalisate particles of the Tartar are detained by the Volatil Acids of the same , commixed with it to the very degree of saturation ; whence they are fixed , forasmuch as these two when conjoined do fix one another , when separated , become again Volatil .
Which manner of Fixation he calls Natural , being showed us by Nature ; as that , which is made by the Colliquation of the Earth by Fire , Artificial , because only performed by Art ; upon the account of which , Volatil Salts are detained no otherwise , than Birds tied to a rock are restrained from flying away .
Now , though indeed the Fixed Alcali of Tartar is in this fermentation freed from that Earth , to which by the fusion of the fire it was intimately united ; yet notwithstanding this , it is fixed again , saith he , by the Acid of the Tartareous Ferment .
For the clearer proof of which , he makes use of the Urinous Spirit of Sal Armoniac , in which there are two Volatil Salts , an Urinous , and Acid .
These two Salts , saith he , though they be Volatil when separate , yet when united they detain one another , emulating as'twere the nature of Fixed ones , since they are neither dissolved in the Air , nor emit any odour , as true Volatils are wont to do .
Now to obtain out of this Salt the Urinous volatil Spirit , there is requisite a Separation of these two Salts ; for this bond being dissolved , the Urinous immediately rises .
To obtain which , water is powred upon the Sal Armoniac ( because Salts act not but when dissolved , ) and then there is added a Fixed Sal Alcali , which whilst it is Joined with the Acid portion of the Sal Armoniac , ( for the more fixed Acid is sooner united with the fixed Alcali , than with the Volatil ; ) the volatil Urinous part quickly deserts its fellow Acid , and being conjoined with the water , yields a most volatil and piercing spirit , which , though the Sal Armoniac before the commixture of the Fixed Salt was quite inodorous , yet now after the addition thereof strikes the nose most violently , and that even when put from the fire ; insomuch that if you do not , after the mixing of the Fixed Salt , very accurately close your vessel , you will afterwards find no Spirits at all .
Wherefore as in this Example of Sal Armoniac , the Fixed salt added , freeth the Alcalisat portion of the Salts ; so in this Fermentation of Tartar , the Tartar calcined to blackness , or the Fixed salt of Tartar , freeth the Alcalisat part of the crude Tartar from the Acid parts .
For , saith he , in the crude Tartar or its putrified Creme there are , as in Sal Armoniac , two Volatil Salts , an Alcali and Acid , from the colliquation of which ( as hath been said ) the Fixed salt results : since it is notorious , that in the fermentation of wine the Acid particles do coagulat the superabounding Alcalisat with the Terrestrial ones to the very degree of saturation , and so by their increased weight take place in the lower part of the vessels .
If therefore to this Tartar , pregnant with Salts , crude , or depurated by a solution in water , you add a calcined Tartar , or , which is the same , Salt of Tartar it self , immediately this Fixed salt will lay hold on the Acid portion of the crude Tartar , and , as in the Sal Armoniac , so here , free the volatil Alcalisat ; from which conflict and action of the salt on one another , grape-like bubles will arise .
And this injection of calcined Tartar must be continued , until all Fermentation do cease , that is , to the very degree of Saturation : which unless it be well observed , many inconveniences will obstruct the Operator .
But this volatil Alcali , being by means of the calcined Tartar freed from its Acid , ( like the Urinous of the Sal Armoniac , ) will presently fly away .
Wherefore if this volatil Spirit could forthwith be received , it would afford a real volatil Salt of Tartar , especially if by art it were freed from its phlegm ( which makes it a fluid Spirit , ) and , without the addition of any extraneous thing , coagulated into Salt .
But this cannot be , saith he , seeing that , before all the fermentation and motion of the saline particles shall have ceased , this mixture cannot be put into the Cucurbit , because it would break the vessel ; nor can the Fixed salt be added to the dissolved crude Tartar all at once , but at several times , because else all the fermented part would quickly get out at the edges of the Cucurbit : Now then , since every time there is , by the addition of the Fixed Salt , so much of the Volatil Acid freed out of the crude Tartar , as much as there is added of Fixed Salt , and that presently flies away , it certainly follows , That , if by injections several times repeated you come at last to the point of Saturation , there will remain no volatil Alcalisat salt at all of the crude Tartar .
Since therefore there is no hopes of obtaining the Volatil Salt from crude Tartar this way , we must endeavour to get it by an addition of Tartar calcined , or Fixed Salt ; and how this is to be-done , hath been already intimated , viz. by the separation of the Earthy parts .
For as the volatil Alcalisat particles , upon a very vehement colliquation of the fire , are , by an intimat union with the Earthy parts , kept from ascending ; so also , when freed from these Terrestrial fetters , they are restored to their former freedom and volatility .
And this Separation of the Earth we obtain by this Fermentation of the Tartar ; for , in the same moment that the Acid portion of the crude Tartar is conjoined with the Tartar 's Fixed Salt , to set the Volatil Alcali of the crude Tartar at liberty ; there is also made a precipitation of that insipid Earth , which by the extreme degree of Fire was united with the Salt of Tartar , and had fixed it before .
But to expose this Fixing Earth to the view of all , I shall allege the Example of Vitriolat Tartar , known to the very Apprentices of Apothecaries .
In this operation , whilst the Spirit of Vitriol is affused to the dissolved Salt of Tartar or its Oil made per deliquium , you may observe a very great Effervescence , during which and the action of the Acid of the Vitriol upon the Alcali of the Tartar , there is precipitated an Earth ( for the separation of all which , care is to be had of the degree of Saturation between the Spirit of Vitriol and the Sale of Tartar , ) which afterwards may be severed by filtration .
Now that this Earth is precipitated not out of the Spirit of Vitriol , but rather the Salt of Tartar , none , versed in these things , can be ignorant of .
This precipitated Earth some call the MagiA aaaaa stery stery of Vitriolat Tartar , and very impertinently prefer it often in their prescriptions to the true Vitriolat Tartar it self .
This Earth indeed hath a Saline taste ; but these Salts , as is usual in all Precipitations , did only adhere to the matter precipitated , and may by a repeated ablution be easily separated ; which done , there remains nothing but an utterly insipid Earth , which can have no other virtue but that of exsiccation .
Wherefore after the self same manner , whilst the Acid part of the crude Tartar is united with the Alcalisate of the Salt of Tartar , the Earth also of the Fixed Salt of Tartar in the said fermentation will be precipitated .
The greatest difficulty being thus dispatch't , our Author proceeds in the third place to a lesser , yet remaining , which is ; That the Acid part , by means of which the Earth was precipitated , detains the volatil Alcalisat part , and fixes it anew ; so that his Volatil Salt of Tartar hath hitherto acquired no greater degree of volatility , than crude Sal Armoniac or the Flowers thereof are known to have .
For these , though they are made up of volatil parts , yet they diffuse no odour before the separation of the volatil parts ; they also endure the Air ; which no volatil salts , truly such , will do : Wherefore they cannot yet be reckoned among Volatils , strictly so called .
Now then , to give to this Volatil Alcali of Tartar the last and highest degree of Volatilisation , the Author esteems it necessary , there should be made a New addition of Fixed Salt of Tartar , which in the same manner , as before it had freed the Alcalisat part of crude Tartar from its Acid , must here also take from the manifest Acid of crude Tartar the Alcalisat part of the Fixed Salt of Tartar , already freed from Earth ; whereby this Alcalisat part of the Salt of Tartar , truly volatilised , being joined to the water ( which was before added for the free action of the Salts , ) will constitute a most Volatil Spirit , which he saith is coagulable , without addition , into volatil crystals , having the perfect taste of Tartar .
So far this Author of the Volatilisation of Fix't Alcalies , and particularly of Tartar ; concerning which it is wish't by some of our Philosophical Chymists here , that this Author would please to make good proof , 1 .
That all Salts are Volatil before Calcination , cination , and consequently , that in Mixed Bodies there is no Fixed Alcalisat salt at all , that is originally such , but that all Volatil Salts are fixed by Calcination , by means of which the Earthy parts in them commixed are concoagulated with them ; and that upon this ground the Volatilisation of Fixed Salts may be easily performed by only separating from them that Fixing Earth , said to be commixed with them .
2 .
That in the Volatilisation of Salt of Tartar , performed by the Fermentation of Dr. Langelot , it is not chiefly the Fixed Alcali of Tartar , that is again volatilised , but rather the Crude Tartar added for a ferment .
3 .
That is Sal Armoniac there are only those two Salts , which he calls an Urinous and Acid , and both Volatil ; whereas it is well known , that there is a Sea-salt in it , which contains many parts , that will for a long while endure a

