]\gt ; Profs .
C. S. Myers and H. A. Wilson .
[ Jan. 2 , and to points near the bottom , between this loop and the corresponding nodes .
Both the length and the of the inner pair depend on the depth of water , the diminishing steadily as the depth of the water increases , and the height increasing till the depth of the water is about one-eighth the wave-length , and then diminishing till the water is as deep as half a , when they are practically reduced to The outer pair of vortices , since they entirely surround the inner ones , grow as these diminish , until at last , when the depth of the water is half a and the inIler vortices cease to exist , the whole length of the half wave is occupied by two .
residual vortices moving from loop to node above and from node to loop below , the vertical motion upwards at the loop and downwards at the node .
On the Perception of the Direction of Sound .
Professor C. S. MYERS , M.A. , M.D. , and Professor H. A. WILSON , D.Sc .
, F.lt .
S. , King 's College , London .
( Received January 2 , \mdash ; Read January 16 , 1908 .
) The following paper contains an account of a series of experiments on the perception of direction of sound which were undertaken with the object of investigating the nature of the influence of phase differences between the vibrations at the two ears .
Lord has shown that such diffelences help to deternline the apparent direction of the sound , the sound appearing to be on the side at which the phase is the more advanced .
Professor More arrived at a similar conclusion to Lord Rayleigh by experiments of a different character .
The paper also contains a theory of the influence of phase differences which appears to offer a possible explanation of the observed effects .
Most of ollr experiments have been done with an apparatus similar in principle to 1rofessor More 's , but permitting of a continuous variation of the diffelence of phase .
The apparatus consisted of a brass tube , AB , nbont 250 cm .
long and cm .
in diameter , with a short -piece soldered on to it at its middle point .
) tube could slide freely in two slightly larger brass tubes , CD snd , which , h were supported horizontally a definite 'Phi ] .
Mag February , ] 'Phil .
Mag April , 1907 .
1908 .
] On the Perception of the Direction of Sound .
distance apart .
From the ends of CD and OF wide tubes were led to caps fitting on to the ears of the observer .
The tubes were made up of len ths of AB .
Sliding tube .
DE .
Scale .
T. -piece .
K. Tuning fork .
FIG. 1 .
CA , .
Fixed tubes .
H. Observer 's head . .
Screen on table .
glass tubing joined together by pieces of wide indiarubber , and the two sides of the were made as symmetrical as possible .
ear caps consisted of wooden discs with annular soft pads round them which could be pressed against the head .
The caps were supported on retort stands clamped to a table , and were adjusted as symmetricalJy as possible .
A graduated scale was fixed alongside the brass tube AB so that the position of the -piece could be read off on it .
A wooden screen WtlS put up on the table between the observer and the -piece , so that } he was facing he could not see the position of the -piece .
A vibrating tuming fork held near the mouth of the -piece so some of the sound from it entered the tubes and went along them to the observer 's ears .
By the tube AB about , any desired difference couldbe produced between the paths to the two ears .
Let the distance of th -piece fro1n the middle point scale of the scale be cm .
, ond the waye-length of the sound given out by the for be , then the phase difference between the sounds at the observer 's is .
If is the number of vibrations per second and the velocity of sound , then According to Lord 's results we should expect that for values of between and the sound would appear to bc in the ear on the cvht Profs .
C. S. Myers and H. A Wilson .
[ Jan. 2 , hand side of the middle point , while with between and it would appear to be on the left , and so on for other values of .
If we denote the lateral effect by , and consider right effects positive and left effects negative , the connection between and should be , according to Lord 's results , , where A is a constant .
It would , perhaps , be more correct to say that should be equal to a Fourier 's sine series , of which the above is the first term , but experiment shows that the other terms are unimportant , if they exist at all .
One of us acted as observer while the other placed the -piece in a series of positions , in each of which the observer said on which side the sound of the fork appeared to him to be .
A record of the results was kept , and the series of observations was usually repeated .
The sensations were usually described as follows:\mdash ; " " Full right half right " " middle or half " " middle " " middle or half left half left " " full left " " Half right\ldquo ; meant that the perception of direction was only moderately while\ldquo ; middle or half left\ldquo ; meant that there was only a doubtful perception of direction .
" " Middle\ldquo ; meant that the sound seemed to come from in front or behind , or that there was no lateral effect .
The following is a typical series of observations:\mdash ; Fork 512 .
Observer facing away from fork .
Scale reading .
65 or or 135 Mor 145 or 1908 .
] On the .
the The ntunbers in brackets indicate the order in which the observations were made .
The results obtained can be conveniently represented by means of curves whose -ordinates are the scale readings the position of the -piece and the lateral effects .
The lateral effect corresponding to any scale reading was calculated by the mean of the observations that point , counting ' fnll right\ldquo ; , a half " " middle or " " middle\ldquo ; , with equal negative ) to represent left effects .
shows one of the curves obtained in this way with a fork of frequency 512 .
The curve is also shown ( dotte(1 ) and it will be seen that the observations agree with it as well as could been expected .
and 4 show similar curves obtained with forks freqnencies and 128 .
Fig. 5 shows some of the results obtained frequency 20-C .
It will be seen that with frequency 256 the observed and theoretical curves do not agree , in fact the lateral effect is just the reverse of that expected .
A good deal of time was spent in the cause of this anomaly and it was finally found to be due to resonance urring in tube on one side or the othel , according to the position of the -piece .
The ears were replaced by the thin indiarubber ) of ) nometric flames , which were observed in a ting mirror in the usual way .
In this way it was possible to compare the amplitudes of vibration 011 the two sides of the apparatus .
It was found that the two amplitudes were always ' equal with frequencies 512 and 384 , but with 256 there were differences between the two amplitudes in ) tain positions of the -piece .
In fact , with this frequency , when the sound appeared to be on one side , } a greater intensity of sound on that side , which evidently completely the difference effect .
These differences of intensity could ) detected , though not very certainly , by listening first at one tube and then the other .
It was found that the same cause led to the discrepancy between the observed and calculated results with frequency 128 at ( see 4 ) .
The lateral effects observed with frequency 256 were of ) recisely the same character as those ) served with frequency 512 , it pears t the effects were due to a difference between the sound intensities at the two ears , while those with frequency 512 were produced by a dilfel'ence , of phase without any difference intensity .
Some experiments tried with the tube on one side partially block Profs .
C. S. Myers and H. A. Wilson .
[ Jan. 2 , fork FIG.3 .
Faci n Gowd , FIG. 4 Gowards ) FIG.5 .
with cotton wool so that the sound on that side was considerably weaker that on the other side .
It was found that the observer , after a time , became accommodated , sc to speak , to the of intensities , and lateral effects in both directions could then be obtained , although the sound was all the time stronger on one side than on the other .
Experiments were tried in hich one side of the tube was gradually closed 1908 .
] On the Perception of the Direction of Sound .
( by means of a screw pinch-cock ) , and it was found that the observer did not notice any change in the lateral effect until the tube was almost completely closed , when , of course , the sound always went over to the open side .
The sensation of of direction produced in this was precisely similar to that obtained by the -piece along with both tubes open .
Experiments were tried with tubes of different and with the observer facing towards the fork and then away from it , but no very interesting results were obtained .
Experiments were also tried with the manometric flames to see if the phase differences calculated actually existed , and this was found to be the case frequency 256 as well as the others .
The results obtained suggest that hile a difference of phase may be a primary cause of lateral effects , yet it acts by a difference between the intensities of the sound inside the ears .
If we suppose that some of the sound entering an ear gets across the lead to the opposite internal ear , this enables a simple explanation of the phenon7ena to be iven .
Let denote the vibration entering the right , and denote the vibration entering the left ear .
resulting effect at the right internal ear will be , say , Here and are proper fractions , of which is much greater than , and is the retardation in phase due to the through the head .
In the same way , the effect at the left internal ear will be .
Hence and , where and are constants .
Let denote the sound intensity at the internal ear , and that the left internal ear .
Then is proportional to the differP , nce between the squares of the amplitudes in and ; hence , Thus , the difference between the intensities at the two internal ears is proportional to , and if we suppose tlJat , the laternl effect , is ) portional to , we get , where so is a constant for sound of a particular frequency .
* We suppose that the displacements in the internal ear due to the two sets of waves are in opposite ections .
It should be said that principal reason this assumption is that it enables an explanation of the lateral effects to be given .
On the Perception of the Direction of Sound .
Thus , provided is positive , if the phase at the right ear is ahead by an amount between and is positive , that is , , and the sound will appear to be on the side , whereas if is between and , and the sound will appear to be on the left side .
Thus , the theory here proposed gives a complete explanation of the observed lateral effects due to phase differences .
For very high-pitched notes would be veen and , and then the lateral effect would be reversed .
The distance between the ears the is small , and the velocity of sound the bones probably very high , so that we should not expect a reversal of the effect due to this cause , unless the frequency were very reat .
But with very frequencies the lateral effects cannot be obtained .
The amount of sound which must the head to produce an appreciable difference between the intensities at the two internal ears is not large , because since the two amplitudes are added , an imperceptible amount getting through might produce an appreciable difference of intensity .
It was found that an appreciable amount of sound could be sent a person 's head from one ear to the other .
Ear caps with tubes attached were fitted to each ear , and a vibrating tuning fork was held near the end of one tube .
An observer listened at the end of the other tube , and with a fork of frequency 512 a distinct sound was heard , which seemed to come along the tube .
The amount of sound gettin through the head must , of course , be much smaller than the amount entering one ear and getting to the opposite internal ear .
The experiments described were oarried out in the Physical Research Laboratory at King 's College , which has been fitted up with a grant of S500 from the Drapers ' Company , to whom , therefore , we wish to express our obligations .
We also desire to express our best thanks to Lord Rayleigh for his kind interest in the experiments and for some valuable gestions .

