]\gt ; Mr. G. W. Walker .
component having , in proportions which increase the voltage , at any rate , within a moderate range .
The extent of the work was not competent to throw doubt on the prevailing view that the bulk of the -rays from a bulb worked under voltages such as obtain in medical practice consists of other than general heteroyeneous radiation .
The -rays fro1n a bulb excited by low voltages ( 10,000 to 50,000 volts ) are in the characteristic radiation of the anticathode .
In the case of iron , nickel and copper , the amount of -radiation lies between 80 and 90 per cent. In the case of platinum the proportion of -radiation is from 40 to 60 per cent. Evidence of characteristic radiations softer than the and -radiation has been obbained .
The writer has perforce had to content himself with little more than setting down observations .
the preparation of the yrams he is greatly indebted to Mr. W. F. , B.Sc. On Illagnetic By GEORGE W. WALKER , M.A. , A.B.C.Sc .
, F.B.S. , formerly Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Received March 13 , 1917 .
) In the course of some investigations with regard to the Earth 's netism , it occurred to me that a magnetised body must possess magnetic inertia in virtue of its netisation , just as an electrified body possesses electric inertia .
I am not aware that this has been considered before , nor have I seen any calculation of the amount to be expected .
The method of dimensions shows that the netic inertia of a body of magnetic moment should be a numerical multiple of , where is the velocity of radiation and a linear dimension of the body ( e.g. , the radius , in the case of a sphele ) .
The problem may be ated and the numerical factor determined by the same general method used for electric inertia .
* Consider a conducting sphere of radius uniformly magnetised with magnetic moment 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , p. 260 ( 1906 ) , and 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 210 , p. 145 ( 1910 ) .
On Magnetic ( 1 ) Let the sphere be neCised parallel to the axis of ) .
When the sphere is at rest the magnetic are boiven by inside , outside .
Thus the tangential component of is continuous at , and the apparent surface density is Now , let the sphere move under the action of a mechanical force so that the displacement the axis of at any time is .
The appropriate forlus to be assumed for the field outside are ( cf. .
cit. ) : - where stands for .
Hence the electrodynamic force is .
We are at liberty to assume that inside , but we must suppose that tlJe surface is the seat of electric currents given by P. Now this current is determined by the discontinuity of the tangential component of at Hence .
( 1 ) The component of X ' , vanishes at if which is satisfied by .
( 2 ) In virtue of ( 2 ) the normal netic force is f.ound to be , as before , outside inside so that the apparent surface density is unaltered by the motion .
Mr. G. W. Walker .
The netic force in the direction of at is outside and inside Thus Hence the force in the clirection of due to the magnetic force acting on the apparent surface density is and this reduces to The force in the direction of due to the magnetic force on the surface cur1ent is and this reduces to Thus the total force in the direction of due to radiation But in a uniformly accelerated motion , and from ( 2 ) so that the force is Hence the magnetic inertia of the sphere for uniform acceleration in the direction of its neCic axis is ( 2 ) Let tho sphere be necised parallel to the axis of .
When the sphere is at rest the netic f are boiven by inside .
outside .
Thus the tangential component of is continuous at , and the rent surface density is Now , let sphere move under the action of a mechanical force so that the xcelnent along the axis of at any time is .
The appropriate for1nF ; to for the forces outside are On Magnetic Inertia .
Hence .
Inside we may take and assume currents at the surface P. Thus the tangential component of X ' , will vanish at if and Again the tangential discontinuity of will measure the surface current if and These conditions reduce to two , , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) provided Under these conditions the normal component of netic force outside reduces to and inside so that the apparent surface density remains The magnetic force in the direction of is outside inside therefore , Thus the force in the direction due to the netic force acting on the apparent surface density is which reduces to The force in the direction due to the netic force acting on the surface current is and this reduces to Mr. G. W. Walker .
The total force in the direction of due to radiation is thus Hence since a uniformly accelerated motion , the force is Hence the magnetic inertia of the sphere for uniform acceleration at right to the axis of netisation is We may now consider some applications of these results .
In the case of the Earth , the electric inertia , assuming a normal potential gradient at the surface of 1 volt per cm .
, comes to .
The magnetic moment of the ]arth is , according to Gauss , C.G.S. magnetic units .
Thus the magnetic inertia parallel to its magnetic axis works out to .
Thus the magnetic inertia is more important than the electric inertia , it is still very small compared with inertia , The ratio of magnetic to gravitational inertia for the Earth is thus Prof. Hale 's measurements lead to the conclusion that the surface magnetic forces on the Sun are 100 times those at the Earth 's surface , and as its density is but a quarter of that of the Earth , the corresponding ratio for the Sun would be about The fact that the inertia along and perpendicular to the magnetic axis are different is of interest .
For since the Earth 's magnetic axis is inclined to the axis of rotation , and this is inclined to the plane of the ecliptic , there will be a small diurnal variation of the effective inertia of the Earth , which may be expected to lead to small diurnal corrugations in the Earth 's path .
It seems , however , doubtful if this efiect could be measured within any reasonable astronomical time .
The results are also of interest in the theory of electrons and magnetons .
The electronic charge is ( in electromagnetic units ) , while the magnetic moment of the neton is in netic units .
If we suppose that in each case the radius is , we find that the electric inertia is , and the magnetic inertia is .
Thus the magnetic inertia is more important than the electric inertia .
There are , however , difficulties of a serious nature in supposing that the radius of a magneton is as small as , and in these ' Proceedings , ' , vol. 91 , p. 156 ( 1915 ) , I give reasons for thinking that the radius is more nearly On Magnetic The electric inertia would then be and the netic inertia It may be inlerred from the results for the inertia of a magnetic doublet that the like results hold for an electric doublet where stands for the electric moment in electrostatic units .
An unpolarised body consisting of electric or etic doublets may be supposed to have the axes of the doublets orientated equally in all directions .
On the the inertia per doublet is , and thus there is a contribution to the inertia of such a body of amount per unit volume , where is the 1lumber of doul ) lets per unit volume .
We may form an estimate of the order of nitnde of this effect .
I have that the dielectric constant of a gas is give by where is the mass of a particle and the city of mean square .
Clearly a similar forul would hold for the magnetic permeability if the particles were magnetic doublets .
Boltzmann 's value of for is , and this with the usual gives the electric moment per molecule ( 7 ' ) about and about .
If these values are applicable to a solid for which is about , the inertia .
unit volume on account of the electric doublets would be of order 10 or We have then an effect which may prove capable of measurement .
It involves a combination of the molecular quantities and is connected with the magnetic permeability or dielectric constant of the material .
\mdash ; Sir J. J. Thomson has pointed out to me that the magnetic inertia may be calculated in a simple way by the method which he used in his original calculation of electric inertia for a charged sphere .
I may also add that the rotation of a magnetised sphere may be examined by the method in the paper .
I find that for rotation about the magnetic axis the moment of inertia is , and for rotation about an axis at right angles to the netic axis it is 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 69 , p. 394 .

