448 Prof. S. P. Thompson .
of this band .
For the band does not extend on both sides of the position corresponding to the normal setting , but lies entirely on one side .
At present the author is not in a position to offer any explanation of this fact .
The distinction between classes A and B appears to him , however , of such fundamental importance , when considering the connection between heredity and colour blindness and also when studying the incidence of this condition in different peoples , that he has decided to publish the results he has obtained up to now without waiting till , by further experiments , more light has been thrown on this particular difficulty .
Note on Mr. Mattock !
s Observations on Intermittent Vision .
By Silvanus P. Thompson , F.R.S. ( Received May 21 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1914 .
) In the paper communicated by Mr. Mallock on December 11 , 1913 , * in order to account for the intermittences seen when watching a revolving disc of black and white sectors , at the moment when a slight mechanical shock is given to the head or body , he advances the hypothesis that a slight mechanical shock of any kind produces a periodic but rapidly extinguished paralysis of the perception of light , and that the nerves on which seeing depends cannot bear more than a certain amount of mechanical acceleration without loss of sensibility .
This hypothesis of a momentary paralysis of the sense of vision seems unnecessary .
The sector disc revolving at from two to six revolutions per second presents a uniform grey tint .
At the moment when the intermittence occurs , by stamping the foot or tapping the head , the most prominent effect observed by the writer was not the momentary appearance of stationary grey or black sectors , but the enhanced brightness of stationary white sectors .
A momentary paralysis , if it occurred , should produce momentary blackness of the entire disc , which is not what happens .
To put the phenomenon to further test , a revolving sector disc , driven uniformly by a small electric motor , was arranged so that it could be observed either directly from a distance of a few feet or by reflection in a small sheet of mirror-glass held in the hand or clamped elastically between two india* 1 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 89 , p. 407 .
Note on Mr. Mattocks Observations on Intermittent Vision .
449 rubber corks upon a solid support .
When a slight mechanical shock is given to the mirror so as to alter momentarily by a small amount the apparent position of the revolving disc , an intermittence is produced of the same kind as is observed when a shock is given to the head or body .
The 'sectors appear momentarily to stand still , and the brightness of the white sectors is for an instant enhanced .
This intermittence , if such it can be called , occurs equally whether the observer taps the mirror or whether some other person taps it .
The phenomenon is in this case independent of any mechanical acceleration of the nerves or nerve-structures , and is not due to any temporary paralysis of vision .
Though shocks of different force and duration produce slightly differing appearances , the writer can observe no difference in kind between the effects of shock to his own head or body and those of shock given to the mirror .
Nor does he find any difference between the effects of shocks made by his own muscular effort and those of shocks made by other persons when he is watching the image in the mirror .
The explanation appears to be that when the moving images of the white sectors on the retina are suddenly shifted by a minute displacement , they fall on some of the rods and cones which are relatively unfatigued , and which , for the instant , are therefore of greater sensitiveness .

