]\gt ; IV .
' On the Theory of Electrodynamics By J. LARIIOR , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.B.S. Received May 11 , .
The electrical ideas of Clerk Maxwell , which were cultivated partJy in relation to mechanical models of electrodyn amic action , led him to the general principle that electrical currents always flow round complete circuits .
To verify this principle for the case of the current which charges a condenser , it was necessary to postulate an electrodynamic achon of the same type as that of a cul.rent for the electric displacement across the dielecbric , in which the excitation of the dielectric may be supposed , after Faraday , to consist .
The existence of such an action has subsequently been deduced qualitatively from the general principle of action and reaction , has also been detected } ) experimenters .
principle also requires that the electric displacement not therefore than bolenoidal oircuital , haracteristiclead tccumulation oharge interior oielectric , equation being of the type must nectric dacement , eave asurface density , ctricity conducted tface ocondenserand turface density ewhere Fdenotes theeffective eification ourface Oaking tectric force , becomes unity fvacuum dtric ; represents tpecific inductive capacity aeasured bectrostatic experimentsof eectrodynamics ieduced tNeumann theory oircuits , hich truth hished Ieads , hown bpagation oactionwhich hntimate rations taves ought tknown When this prlnciple of circmtal curl'ents is postulated , the theo dielectric media by waves of transverse displacement , *Cf .
J. J. omson , ' Brit. Assoc. Repolt , ' 1885 .
A term recently introduced by Sir W. Thomson .
522 Mr. J. Larmor .
[ May 14 risation Theory .
The problem of determining how far these remarkable conclusions will still hold good when a more general view of the nature of dielectric polarisation is assumed was considered by von HeJmholtz$ in a series of memoirs .
The most general conception of the polarisation of a medium which has been formed is the Poisson theory of magnetisation .
The magnetised element , whether actoally produced by the orientation of polar molecules or otherwise , may be mathematically considered to be formed by the displacement of a quantity of ideal magnetic matter from its ne , ative its positive pole , thereby producing defect at the one end , and excess at the other end .
The element is defined magnetically by its moment , which is the product of the displaced quantity and the distance through which it is displaced .
The displacement per unit volume , measured by this product , is equal to the netic moment per unit volume , whether the magnetised molecules fill up the whole of that volume or are a system of particles with unoccupied space between them .
the chalacteristic equation of the potential dielectric is , , , then displacement across the opposite faces of the cube .
*iChe Abhandlungen , ' I , p. 545 , et seq. On the Theory of Electrodynamics .
523 6 : .
Let bs the surface density of the conducted to a plate ; the effective electrificatiou along that plate will be of surface density ; therefore , by Coulomb 's principle , ; so that F. Thus the current is not circuital , but there is an excess of the surface density conducted to the surface over the displacement irrent from the surface , which is equal to The specific inductive capacity , as determined by static experiments on capacity , is measured by , the coefficient in the exprespion for In addition to this discontinuity at the face of a condenser plate , the induction in the mass of the dielectric will not be circuital unless the eIectric force is itself circuital , which it is not in the general ectrodynamic theory to be presently discussed .
current becomes more nearly circuital the greater the value of .
If , and therefore , were infinite we should attain the limit when the cul'renbs are circuital .
If the values of for all dielectrics were multiplied by the same infinite constant , so as to keep their 524 Mr. J. Larmor .
[ May those olectric force ( static)These dimensions o sional relations must persist when the transition is made from von Helmholtz 's system to Maxwell 's , so that the changes in units are as von Helmholtz indicates ; and the ratio of the electrostatic to the electrokinetic unit of quantity in an ideal absoIute lium with [ lnity will now be the ascertained value of this constant for air or vacuum multiplied by the square root of the value of for air .
The electric pressure in a fluid dielectric , however , depends , in this limiting form of the theory , on the square of the value of the electric displacement , as may be : thus the circumstances of ordinary cases of statical electrification are those of finite numerical value of the displacement , notwithstanding the smallness of this absolute of charge .
) Generalised Electrodynamic Theory .
To obtain the eneral type of the modification of which the theory of electrodynamlcs is susceptible ving to the existence of noncircuital currents , we start , following von Helmholtz , from the ascertained laws for circuital currents , which may be developed in the manner of Neumann and Maxwell from the electrodynamic potential The value of with the sign h given to it is to be reckoned as kinetic energy ; the mechanical forces are to be derived by its variation due to any virtual displacement of the system , a force acting in the direction of the displacement producing an increment of ; the electric forces are derived according to Lenz 's law or Maxwell 's kinetic theory .
The equations of the field are thus all expressible in terms of this function T. When non-circuital currents are conemplated , the currents , no varying with , must be placed inside the integral signs ; and to must be added the most gene1al type of expression that will vanish when either current is circuital .
Thus we must write , where is a function such that i.e. , it is , so far , any function which has no cyclic constant round either circuit .
The distribution of the eJlergy between the pairs of } 1891 .
] the Theory of Electrodynamics .
elements is now supposed to be specified by the elements of integr.al .
The form of is limited by the fact that it must be a function of the geometrical conformation of the of ; elements .
The elements of this conformation are gi by the equations ' where is their distance apart , represent the angles being measured positive from to The only function of type which can be specified in terms of these quantities is , which is equal to On titution we have in which the elements of the energy are supposed to be correctly localised .
To obtain the mutual } anical forces between the conductors we have to determine the variation in produced by the most general virtual displacements of the separate elements which do not alter these elements , nor break the continuity of either t. , ircuit .
Thus are not to be varied .
: The shortest way to take account of currents which are not of the @ same strength all along the circuit is to consider two uniform currents ' flowing in interrupted circnits , and examine the terms of the variation involving the terminal points at which electric charges are being accumulated by the currents ving into them .
Of course .
the same general results would flow from taking functions of respecti.eglecting temploying emagnetic units avoiding anumerical caveafter Feumann aelmholtz , ' 526 Mr. J. Larmor .
[ May ; ' \ldquo ; This variation is accounted for by the foIlowing forces of repulsion , ding to increase ( i ) Between the elements and , equal to or Ampere 's law .
ductor \amp ; ' , or , Between and the end of the conductor where dhich tffit eBetween ositive e being here measured away from ducfor , On the Theory of Electrodynamics .
'527 It is to be that the form of fects only the forces ( iv ) in this scheme of attraction , as one would expect from the fact that if either current flows round a complete circuit .
Not to refer to ( ii ) and ( iii ) , we notice that two changing electrifications attract each other with a force involviog a term which is constant at all distances , unless a special form of be differing from any of the values occur in the sequel .
It is difficult to imaginc che mechanical basis of such an action ; the remarks of von Helmholtz in iustification ( against Bertrand ) may , however , be referred to .
* This investigation of the mechanical forces is equivalent to von Helmholtz 's wibh the exccption that he takes at the beginning to be to , on the general gronnl that the potential energy of two elements in all natural actions volves only erse first power of the .
The validity of this consideration seems to be weakened the ct noticed above that occurs only in the force ( iv ) .
For what follows it will necessary to the form of .
To the propagation of electrical action in conbinuous media , we to translate from the form suitable to llnear distributions to the form smtable to.volume distributions .
Following the method first developed by Kirchhoif , and for this case the analysis of von Helmholtz , the .
energy function for any lield of corrents is to be obtained by summation of the energy functions of all the pairs of elementary filaments of currents that compose it , care being taken that no pair is counted twice over .
The proper form be a volume integral ; instead of , the elements of the.filament , it will involve , the elements of volume , and instead , the resultant culTents , it will involve their components per ur-ib sectiollal area and u'v'w ' .
Thus , the factors being inserted because the volume integrals , being extended all over the system , take each pair of elements twice over .
Hence * ' Wissen .
Abhandl I , p. 708 . .
J. Larmor .
[ May 14 , where ; in these formulae the accents may now be dropped , as the inte a extended over the whole system .
It is through this function that the indetermiuateness enters into the equations of electrodynamics .
In a certain class of cases the function may be expressed in another form , which is useful in the 1 in snbsequent analysis .
By integration by parts throughout space , we obtain provided we can neglect the surface integral over the finit .
sphere ; and this we can do , if the system is confined to a finite region and j ) contains unly inverse powers of , or it may be direct powers of when there is no total current flow to inIinity .
Thus by Green 's theorem , provided the surface as before .
In this equation , so , on von Helmholtz 's assumption we ; so and therefore 20 ffV a result to be used immediately .
1891 .
] On the 1 heory of namics .
The final result is , where .
To obtain the components PQR of the force we assume , following F. E. Neumann and von Helmholtz , that the principle involved in Lenz 's law is applicable to the element as well as to the circuit as a whole .
This is the same inciple as flows from Maxwell 's die amical theory , and is justified , if we assume that is the function of an actual dynamical system .
To tlIe kinetic !
) of the electric force so debermined the electrostatic part must be added , giving in all the components The conduction current is given by , where is the specific resistance .
The total current , where .
The vector potential FGH is connected by above with by the equations of potential ; while the characteristic equation of The equations of electric propagation are involved in these 530 Mr. J. Larmor .
[ May The value of in electromagnetic units is very small , the square of the reciprocal of the velocity of light in the medium ; so that there are , broadly , two classes of media , ( i ) conductors in which is neglected , ( ii ) insulators in which are zero .
The equations of propagation for each case are involved in the above equations .
Propagation in Dielectric JIedia .
The simplest and most important case of this generalised theory , as displacement cnrrents in conductors are negligible , is that of dielectrics .
In the first place , we may consider the tion of .
We Now Therefore and , finally , nlch is a function of This equation determines the mode of propagation of V. It represents wave-motion of a complicated character which may be analysed most easily by applying the eqnation to the case of a plane wave with the displacement at righb angles to its front .
are two comparatively simple cases .
If , i.e. , , the equation becomes which represents wave propagation with velocity depending on the wave-length , and therefore involving dispsrsion .
1891 .
] On the Theory of Electrodynamics .
For the plane wave , it leads to the condition and the velocity of propagation is where is the wave-length .
The special case of equal to zero is worth notice , as that would represent a theory in which the of Neumann 's integral , , is the mutual energ of two elements .
Wheu the currents are not circuital , this leads to a condensational wave of the type here given .
( ii ) If ( von Helmholtz 's hypothesis ) the equation becomes ' undulatory propagation with constant velocity which agrees with von Helmholtz 's result , when his notation is written for C. is apparently nothing self-contradictory in the more general values of .
The form , here considered , is lotable for the case ; as then the law of electrodynamic action between two changing charges would be simply that of the inverse square .
Next we shall consider the pagation of the electric displacement fgh .
We have with two similar in and 532 Mr. J. Larmor .
[ May 14 , From these equations may be eliminated by means of the equations found for where There result equations of the Thus , finally , or pendent equations .
ropagated wonstant vocity Kwhatever beThey sacements fhich tondensationThe three equations o : the form assigned to .
For , vrite so that , ; this is possible , for to determine we have simply so that subjecb tondition obecause SThese eations wthen dropagation ouanti iuncbions oropagation oready b considered .
fore mtlst vanish ; that is , the displacement must be perpendicular transverse displacement .
the direction of propagation .
These waves are therefore waves of 534 Mr. J. Larmor .
[ May 14 , long , guided by a pair of parallel wires , was measnred by inberference experimsnts when a part of { .he circuit was surrounded by various liquid dielectrics .
The great length of the wave compared with the section of the condnctor ensures that it travels with its front sensibly in the direction of opagation , and , therefore , that its velocity is normal ; while the presence of the return wire limits its divergence into space .
Their results are expressed in the lowing table which gives , the index of refraction for light waves of length metres , and the index of refraction for the waves of about 6 nietres long:\mdash ; Castol . . . . . . . . .
Olive oil . . . . . . . .
Xylene . . . . . . . . . .
Petroleum . . . . . .
Thus the deviation from correspondenoe for the longez waves is per cent. correspondsnce of these numbers requires that the values of and should be sensibly equal for the substances tested , which can only be the case in the limiting form of the polarisation theory which constitutes Maxwell 's placement theory. .
In that oase , as has seen , the ctlrrents are all circuital ; the Ampere-Neumann heory of electrodynamics suffices for dl purposes , and there is no condensational wave .
The stand.point from the theory of dielectric polarisation has been generalised in the theory here expounded is that of polar elements attracting .
to the law of inverse in the manner of small magnets .
In the results , however , this conception disappears and the phenomena are all expressed in the continuous manner by means of partial differential equations .
It is also possible , in Maxwell 's manner , to ignore the attractions of the elements from the beginning , and simply to define the displacement as proportional to the electric force .
The statical theory of shows that in the dielectric displacement must be circmtal , for the characberistic equation of the potential must hold good .
The displacement constant assumed by Maxwell is equal to the specific inductive capacity , in order to ensure that the charging current shall be continuous across the faces of a oondenser .
It might be proposed to take a less restricted form for this constant , the result , of course , tlIat the ents would be non-circuital .
The investigation of this paper , however , proves that in all cases the velocity the waves of transverse displacement is specified in terms of this displacement constant ; and experimental fact that in the simpler media it is determined in the same manner by the specific indu tive capacity confines us to that value of the constant which is lmed 1891 .
] On the of Electrodynamics .
535 by Maxwell .
* It is necessary to emphasise that it is of the very essence of a theory of this kind that the current in the dielectric is not cirouital , and , therefore , that the electric volume density produced by the electric displacement varies with the time .
This is so because electrodynamic part of the electric force is not derived from a potential .
Any investigation which rstricts the current to be circuital is necessarily inconsistent with itseIf , except for the case which forms Maxwell 's theory .
A discrepancy of per cent. ( a small number ) between the observed velocity and } would involve , by the mulae at the beginning of this section , a difference of about per cent. between and , so that would be of numerical nitude about ; which determines the ratio in which the ordinary values of the inductive capacities of all media , including vacuum , would have to be multiplied , to make the polarisation theory not discordant } the observations .
The amount of discontinuiby in the current at the surface of a conductor is the fraction of the total across the surface .
At the interface between two dieleclxic media , denoted by the values and , the normal components of the displacement on the two sides are ( K-1 ) and where are the normal components of the electric force , so tha Thus the discontinuity in the displacement is or .
compared with a total displacement ; the ratio of these is , which is less than the fraction , which corresponds to the surface of a conductor .
Thus , under the assumed circumstances , the ratio of the amplitudes of the condensational waves to those of th ' transverse waves would have a superior limit of the order ; in the observations quoted this limit is at 5 per cent. It is worth while to emphasise that if the polarisation theory were to take equal to unity for a vacuum , would be zero , and in a vacuum would be nothing but action at a distance .
lt is thus an essential part of a theory like this that a vacuum has an absolute inductive capacity greater than unity , so that the ordinary value unity is merely a relative unit .
Thus the transition to Maxwell 's scheme , where the absolute coefficienbs are all assumed infinite , does not involve auy undue stretch of the original hypotbesis .
In the above , the relative velocities in different media of the *Cf .
J. J. Thomso ] ] , ' Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1881 p. Presents .
[ May 14 , transverse waves have been considered .
The absolute velocity in a vacuum must take account of the fact that the ratio of the electro .
static and electromagnetic units of quantity has been altered by the factor in the transition to Maxwell 's theory , where now l.epresents the assumed absolute inductive capacity of the vacuum : thus the velocity for vacunm is multiplied by the ratio of electric u1lits in vacuum , agreeing with von Helmholtz 's result , * on writing this inductive capacity K'2 for his constant , and exceeding the velocity of unless is very The theory of electrodynamics would thus appear to be , on all sides , limited to Maxwell 's scheme , which has also so much to recommend it on the score of intrinsic simplicity .
The Socieby adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , Nay 28 .
Presents , May 14 , 1891 .
Transactions .
Cracow:\mdash ; Academie des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
Comptes Rendus des Seances .
1891 .
No. .
Cracovie .
The Academy .
Paris : que du Depot de la Guerre .
Catalogue .
Tome VII . .
Paris 1890 .
Ministere de la Guerre , Paris .
Rome :Reale Accademia dei Lincei .
Atti .
Serie 4 .
( Classe di Scienze Morali , Storicbe Filologiche ) .
Memorie .
Vols. .
Roma 1886-88 .
The Academy .
dford :Museum , Libraries , and Parks Committee .
Annual Report , 1889-90 . .
Salford .
The Committee .
Stockholm :Kongl .
Vetenskaps-Akademie .
Ofversigt .
No. 1 . .
Stockholm 1891 .
The Academy .
Tokio:\mdash ; Universitat .
Mitteilungen aus der Medicinischen Facultat .
Bd .
I. No. 4 .
The UniversityToulouse :Facult des Sciences .
Annales .
Tome .
Fasc .
2 . .
Paris 1890 .
The Faculty .
urin : .
Accademia ] Scienze .
Atti .
] XXVL Disp . .
Torino 1890-91 ; Osservazioni Meteorologiche .
1890 . .
Torino 1891 .
The Academy .
trecbt :\mdash ; Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen .
Aanteekeningen van het verhandelde in de Sectie Vergaderingen .
1890 . .
Utrecht .
The Society .
Vienna :Anthropologische Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen .
Bd .
XXI .
Heft 1 . .
Wien 1891 .
The Sociely .
cit. , p. 627 .

