I. " Researches on Gaseous Spectra in relation to the Physical Constitution of the Sun , Stars , and Nebulae."-Second Note .
By E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. , and J. N. LOCKYER .
Received May 5 , 1869 .
We beg to lay before the Royal Society some further results of the researches on which we are engaged .
I. The Fraunhofer line on the solar spectrum , named h by Angstrom , which is due to the absorption of hydrogen , is not visible in the tubes we employ with low battery and Leyden-jar power ; it may be looked upon therefore as an indication of relatively high temperature .
As the line in question has been reversed by one of us in the spectrum of the chromosphere , it follows that the chromosphere , when cool enough to absorb , is still of a relatively high temperature .
II .
Under certain conditions of temperature and pressure , the very complicated spectrum of hydrogen is reduced in our instrument to one line in the green corresponding to F in the solar spectrum .
III .
The equally complicated spectrum of nitrogen is similarly reducible to one bright line in the green , with tracesof other more refrangible faint lines .
IV .
From a mixture of the two gases we have obtained a combination of the spectra in question , the relative brilliancy of the two bright green lines varying with the amount of each gas present in the mixture .
V. By removing the experimental tube a little further away from the slit of the spectroscope , the combined spectra referred to in II .
&amp; III .
were reduced to the two bright lines .
VI .
By reducing the temperature all spectroscopic evidence of the nitrogen vanished ; and by increasing it , many new nitrogen-lines make their appearance , the hydrogen-line always remaining visible .
The bearing of these latter observations on those made on the nebulue by Mr. Huggins , Father Secchi , and Lord Rosse is at once obvious .
The visibility of a single line of nitrogen has been taken by Mr. Huggins to indicate possibly , first , " a form of matter more elementary than nitrogen , and which our analysis has not yet enabled us to detect * , and then , secondly , " a power of extinction existing in cosmical space " t. Our experiments on the gases themselves show not only that such assumptions are unnecessary , but that spectrum analysis here presents us with a means of largely increasing our knowledge of the physical constitution of these heavenly bodies .
Already we can gather that the temperature of the nebulae is lower than that of our sun , and that their tenuity is excessive ; it is also a question whether the continuous spectrum observed in some cases may not be due to gaseous compression .

