Ill. Ext.ract of a Letter from Captaini BLAKISTON , 1R.A .
, to General SABINE , R.A. , Treasurer and V.P.IRS .
, dated Singapore , February 22 , 1860 , giving an accoIunt of a remarkable Ice Shower .
Communicated by General SAJ}NlE .
Received April 19 , 1860 .
" On the 14th Janiuary , 1860 , whern two days out from the Cape of Good H-ope , about three hundred miles S.S.E. of it , in lat. 380 53 ' S. , long .
20ยง 45 ?
E. , we encounitered a heavy squall with rain at 10 A.M. , lasting onie hour , the wind shifting suddenly from east to north ( true ) .
During the squall there were three vivid flashes of lightning , one of which was very close to the ship ; and , at the same time , a shower of ice fell which lasted about three minutes .
It was not hail , but irregular-shaped pieces of solid ice , of different dimensions , up to the size of half a brick .
The squall was so heavy that the topsails were let go .
" There appears to have been no previous indication of this squall , for the barometer at 6 P.-m .
on the two previous days had been at 13000 , therm. 70 ?
; at 8 A.M. on the 14th , 29-82 , therm. 700 ; at 10 A.M. ( time of squall ) , 29 86 , therm. 700 ; and at 1 P.m. , when the weather had cleared , wilnd north ( true ) , 297z6 , therm. 69 ?
; after which it fell slowly and steadily during the remainder of the day and following nihtU* .
" As to the size of the pieces of ice which fell , two which were weighed , after having melted colnsiderably , were 3-and 5 ounces respectively ; while I had one piece given me , a good quarter of an hour after the squiall , which would only just go into an ordinary tumbler .
And one or two persons depose to having seem pieces the size of a brick .
" On examination of the ship 's sails afterwards , they were found to be perforated in numerous places with small holes .
A very thick glass cover to onie of the compasses was broken .
" ' Although several persons were struck , and some knocked downI on the deck , fortuLnately no onie was seriously injureCl .
" , Thie weatIher on-i the mioiroing precedig ingthe s(qtiall was clouded , Nvilth close and , thick atmosphere , wind E. ( trne ) , 3 .
By ilight of the 14th the wind had hatuled tIn NMI ( true ) .
4 ; and the day following was W.S.W. ( true ) , 5.-6 clotudyN ,

