" On the Corrections necessary to be applied to Meteorological Observations made at particular periods , in order to deduce from them Monthly Means .
" By James Glaisher , Esq. , of the Royal Observatory .
Communicated by G. B. Airy , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. , Astronomer Royal .
The author , under whose immediate superintendence the whole of the magnetical and meteorological observations taken at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich have been conducted , by direction of the Astronomer-Royal , has communicated in the present paper various tabular results deduced from the meteorological observations , reserving for future notice those deduced from the magnetical series .
His chief object has been to determine the corrections which are applicable to the results obtained by different observers at various times , so as to render them comparable with one another .
The barometrical and theriometrical observations here recorded have been made at every hour of Gottingen mean solar time , during the whole of five years , namely , from the end of 1840 to that of 1845 .
The mean of each hour represents the results deduced from about 150 observations ; those for each month represent about 1800 observations ; and those for the year represent upwards of 21,000 observations of each element .
Tables are given representing the excess of the mean value of each element at every hour of observation , in every month , above the mean value for the month ; and also the mean of the numbers so found , arranged for the different years , and likewise for the same hours in every month .
The numbers were then laid down on paper , as ordinates to a curve of which the times were the abscissae , and a curve passed through , or very near each point ; and the ordinates at every Greenwich hour were measured from that curve , and their values given in a table .
The accordance of the results thus obtained for the same hours in the same months of the different years is very close and satisfactory ; and shows that observers may obtain very valuable approximate results , by taking a comparatively small number of observations in each day at hours by no means inconvenient in ordinary life , furnishing a close approximation to the mean and extreme values , as well as to the diurnal and annual variations of atmospherical phenomena .

