]\gt ; [ 317 ] XI .
On the Tides of the Arctic Seas .
the Re SAMUEL HAUGHTON , M.D. Dubl .
, D.C.L. Oxon .
, F.R.S. , Fellow of , Dublin .
Part .
On the Tides of North nbberland Sound , at th Northern Outlet of Wellington Channel .
Reccived July ll , \mdash ; Read ovcmbcr 1 , 1874 .
Tidal Observations were made on board H.M.S. ' Assistance , ' Captain Sir BELCHEIi , R.N. , K.C.B. , from 24th May to 6th July lS53 , the exact position of the ship being N. lat. and W. Sir LEOPOLD kindly procured for me , from .
EDWARD BELCHECR , a copy of the Observations ; and in them to me wlites thus:\mdash ; " " Sir BELCHER -ishes me to tell how his Tidal Obselvations in 1853 were made .
He they did not depend upon the uess of any one , but lesulted from machinery connected the bottom , which moved a ratchet-wheel , each ' or inch of a bell ; the lise and fall was not that of the ship , but of the whole floe in which shc fixed .
This machinely is described in his narrative , ' The last of the Arctic .
p. 141 .
He there states that this rise was lepeatedly verified by Theodolite tCions.\ldquo ; The following Table contains the Time and Height of ] and Loly 7Vater , extracted from the original obselvations ( which are forwarded with this papel ) ; also the Diurnal Tide at High Water and Low Watel , calculated from the by means of the formula Diurnal Tidc , ( 1 ) which gives the fourth difference of the successive .
* This expression for the Tide is used and explained by Mr. in his On the Tides of tho of Ireland\ldquo ; ( Phil. Trans. and by the author in his p.apcr ] Diurn Tidcs of the Co of Irclaud\ldquo ; Trans. Royal Academy , .
CCLXXY .
ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART IV .
NORTHUMBERLAND SOUND .
determine the Lunar Diurnal Tide* .
It so happened , .
the observations , that the time of vanishing of the whole Diurnal Tide at Low Water corresponded very closely with the time of vanishing of the Moon 's declination .
So that we have , at the same times , which reduces the genelal expression at these times to . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) The times to were 1st June 15th , , . . . . . . .
4 30 28th , , . . . . . . .
9 30 If we now take the hours of Low Water of the Tides occurring nealest to the time of the Moon 's declination vanishing , we find : 1st June . . . . .
} 15th , , . . . . .
110 28th , , . . . .
1 Mean value of Now from equation ( 3 ) we have or hence 1h or ; and , finally , The Diurnal Tide at Watel .
, when , is represented by , and had the following values:\mdash ; 1st June . . .
16th , , . . .
28th , , . . . . .
, , Mean value of ) Notc , p. 32 examination of the signs of the numerical values of the tidc shows that the ncgave valuc of must chosen .
The hours of High Water corresponding to these values , and nearest to the time of the Moon 's declination vanishing , were : lst June . . . .
8 32 15th , , . . . . .
8 00 28th , , . . .
6 40 Mean Hence , the mean value of during the observations we obtain sin45o 50 ' ; but which corresponds to l80o , or the cosine equal to unity .
Hence we have or , finally , inches .
B. Semidiurnal Tide ( Heights ) .
If the preceding Table be plotted to scale , it is easy to separate the Semidiurnal Tide lrom the Diurnal Tide just discussed ; but it is not possible , from observations made at the Solstice only , to separate the Solar and Lunar Tide and determine their coefficients .
general expression for the Semidiurnal Tide is , . . . . .
where and Lunar Coefficients , not corrected for declination parallax , -angles of Sun and Moon , true Solitidal and Lunitidal Intervals .
This expression may be thrown into the form , . . . .
( 4 ) where ( 5 ) ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART IV .
NORTHUMBERLAND SOUND .
0023 A is the apparent height of the tide , and is the apparent Lunitidal Interval at High Water and Low Watel .
At Spring-Tides we have ( C ) ; at Neap-Tides we have The maximum -Tides occurred:\mdash ; Sull 's .
Moon 's 6th June 12 50 A.lf .
19th June Midnight .
6 20th , , 2 Mean The minimum Neap-Tides occurred:\mdash ; .
Moon 's 30th May 6 40 12th June . . .
4 Mean From the Spring-Tides we find , by equation ( 6 ) , ; and from the Neap-Tides , by equation ( 7 ) , we obtain The mean of these values gives us . . . . . .
We have no means of determining and separately .
The maximum and minimum ranges of the Tide , corrected for Diul.nal Inequality only , were:\mdash ; springs .
6th June 20th June Mcan inches .
, , Neaps .
Range .
30th May . . .
inches .
12th June . . .
Mean , , Substituting these values in ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) , we find and , finally , .
( 9 ) It will be observed that the Diurnal Solar Tide Range , already determined bears a very large proportion to the Semidiurnal Tide Ranges .
C. Diurnal Tide ( Times ) .
The following Table contains the hour in local time of High Water and Low Water , and also the Lunitidal Intervals at High Water and Low Water elapsed from the Moon 's passage of the melidian of the place .
The Diurnal Tide in time might be calculated from the Lunitidal Intervals by or second diffelences , as in the case of heights ; but it is not wolth the trouble to make the calculations , as the lesults can be mole leadily obtained by plotting the Lunitidal Intervals calefully to scale .
When this is done the diagram shows a fairly regulal Diurnal Tide , with vanishing epochs and range well marked .
The maximum accelelations and retardations of the time of High or Low Water occasioned by the Diurnal Inequality amounted , generally , to from 35 minutes to 40 minutes , and on 1st July , at Low Water , reached 65 minutes .
Having corrected the curve of Lunitidal Intervals for the Diurnal Inequality , the remainder is the acceleration or retardation on the time of the Semidiurnal Tide .
We have , by equation ( 5 ) , Differentiating this expression so as to obtain for a maximum value , we find , as the equation of condition , . . . . . .
( 10 ) Substituting in ( 5 ) we obtain ; ( 11 ) and assuming we find , after reduction , ; and , finally , and . . . .
( 12 ) On examining the Lunitidal Curve , corrected for Diurnal Inequality , we find the following ranges from Springs to Neaps:\mdash ; High Water .
Water .
or mean maximum range Although we have not found the value of , we may take as an approximation to it the Moon 's mean Hour-Angle at High Water , already given in the Table , Hence we have or .
( 13 ) Collecting together the partial results obtained at this most interestin idal Station , we obtain:\mdash ; ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART IV .
NORTHUMBERLAND SOUND .
Diurnal Tide .
1 .
Solitidal Interval , 2 .
Solar Coefficient , corrected for Declination , inches .
3 .
Lunitidal Interval , 4 .
Solar Coefficient , corrected Declination , inches .
Semidiurnal Tide .
1 .
Mean Lunitidal Interval , High Watcr .
Low Water .
2 .
Difference between Lunitidal and Solitidal Intervals , 3 .
Approximate ratios of uncorrected Solar and Lunar Coefficients , ( Heights ) ( Intervals ) .
A.\mdash ; Added July 1 , 1875 .
At the time of writing this paper I abandoned the attempt to determine the Lunar Diurnal Tide , in consequence of the breakdown of the observations which in the neighbourhood of the June , which corresponds with one of the maxima of the Lunar Declination .
This Tide may , however , be found from the tides of 8th and 9th June and 5th and 6th July , which also correspond to maxima of the Declination .
The Lunar Diurnal Tide is the difference between the Total Diurnal Tide and the Solar Tide , which is determined in the paper .
In .
the following Tables , the Solal .
Diurnal Tide is calculated from the formula Solar Tide , founded on the constants inches , ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART IV .
NORTHUMBERLAND SOUND .
The value of , as found from all the observations , is given in the paper , Hence we find or The signs of the Lunar Tide show that the negative value of is the proper one ; hence .
( c ) We have also , and ( b ) , and , inches .
( d ) July 4 , 5 , 6 N. or or , ( e ) of which the latter value must be used .
We have also and , finally , inches . . . . .
( f ) The mean values of and , deduced from the preceding equations , are , ( g ) inches .
( h ) The Lunal Diulnal Tide is expressed by the equation Lunar Tide .
( i )

