436 Lord Kelvin and Messrs. Maclean and Galt .
[ Mar. 21 March 21 , 1895 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Diselectrification of Air .
" By Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. , * Magnus Maclean , M.A. , F.R.S.E. , and Alexander Galt , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. Received March 14 , 1895 .
S 1 .
The experiment described in S 14 of our paper on the " Electrification of Air and other Gases by bubbling through Water and other Liquids " ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February 21 , 1895 ) , proves that air , electrified negatively by bubbling through water and caused to pass through a metallic wire gauze strainer , gives up some , but not a large proportion , of its electricity to the-metal .
We have now made a fresh experimental arrangement for the purpose of investigating diselectrification of air which has been electrified , whether positively or negatively , by other means than bubbling through water : with apparatus represented in figs. , 1 and 2 , which is simplified from that of our former paper by the omission of the apparatus for electrificaFia .
1 .
Z % Metres * ' ft |L .
* ] 1895 .
] On the Diselectrijication of Air .
437 tion by bubbling , and for collecting large quantities of electrified j air .
S 2 .
In fig. 1 , A B represent the two terminals of a Yoss electric machine connected , one of them to a metal can , CC ' ( a small biscuit canister of tinned iron ) , and the other to a fine needle , of which the point n is in the centre of the can .
The wire making the connection to the needle passes through the centre of a hole in the side of the can , stopped by a paraffin plug .
Air is blown from bellows through a pipe , E , near the bottom of the can , and allowed to escape from near the top through an electric filter , P , called the tested filter , from which it passes through a long block-tin pipe , GG , about 3f metres long and 1 cm .
internal diameter , and thence through a short tunnel in a block of paraffin , K. From this , lastly , it passes through a second electric filter , R , into the open air .
This second filter , which we sometimes call the testing , sometimes the electric receiver , is kept in metallic connection with the insulated terminal , I , of a quadrant electrometer , Q. The metal can and the block-tin pipe are metallically connected to the outer case and uninsulated terminal , T , of the quadrant electrometer .
S 3 .
The testing filter or electric receiver consists of twelve discs of brass-wire cloth fixed across the mouth of a short metal pipe supported on the end of the paraffin tunnel in the manner represented in fig. 2 , on a scale of twice the size of the filter which we have actually used , or of true size for a filter on a tube of 2 cm .
diameter , which for some purposes may be better .
One of eleven similar discs , of size adapted to a tube of 2 cm .
diameter , and an outermost disc with projecting lugs , are shown , true size , and with the gauge of the wire-cloth which we have actually used , shown true size , in fig. 3 .
The eleven little circular discs of wire cloth are held in position by bending over them the four lugs belonging to the outermost disc , and all are kept compactly together by a short piece of india-rabber tube stretched over them outside as shown in fig. 2 .
S4 .
We commenced with a few experiments to test the efficiency of the testing filter , R , with no tested filter at P , and merely continuous | block-tin pipe , PGG , from the can to the paraffin tunnel .
First , working the bellows with no electrification of the needle point , we I found no sensible electric effect on the electrometer , which proved | fbat , whether from natural electrification of the air of the laboratory , or by the action of the bellows , or by the passage of the air through the long metal pipe , no electrification sensible to our test was produced .
After that we kept the needle point , w , electrified , either 1 positively or negatively , for five or six minutes at a time by turning the little Yoss machine , and we found large effects rising to about ^5 yolts in five minutes , positive or negative , according as n was positive or negative .
On the Diselectrijication of Air .
Fig. 2 .
[ Mar. 2l } Fig. 3 .
Twenty-five wires to the centimetre .
Diameter of each wire is 0*16 mm. Hence each aperture is 0*24 mm. square .
S 5 .
The apparatus is now ready to test the efficacy of filters or other appliances of different kinds placed at F for the purpose of diselectrifying air which has been electrified , whether positively or negatively , by the electrified needle point n. We began with a of 12 wire-gauze discs , placed at F and kept in metallic connection with the tin pipe outside .
This nearly halved the electricity shown j 1895- ] Conditions affecting Bacterial Life in Thames Water .
439 by the electrometer .
We then tried 24 , 48 , 72 , 96 , 120 wire-gauze discs , successively , placed in groups of 24 , and separated from one j another by short lengths of 2 cm .
of lead tube , in the line of the flow of the air between F and G ( fig. 1 ) , all kept in metallic connection with the block-tin pipe and the outer case of the electrometer .
We were surprised with the smallness of the additions to the diselectrifying efficiency of the 12 strainers first tried ; for example , the filter of 120 wire gauzes only reduced the electrical indication to a little less than one-half of what it was with the 12 which we first tried .
We found that cotton-wool between the spaces in the groups of 24 wire gauzes largely increased the diselectrifying effect .
Thus , with 72 wire gauzes and cotton-wool we succeeded in reducing the electrical effect to about one-twelfth of what it was with only a filter of 12 wire gauzes ; but hitherto we have not succeeded in rendering imperceptibly small the electricity yielded by the outflowing air to the testing filter R in our method of observation .
S 6 .
We intend trying various methods of obtaining more and more nearly complete diselectrification of the electrified air flowing out of the can at F ; and this for air electrified otherwise than by the needle point , as shown in the diagram : for instance , by an electrified flame in place of the needle point ; or again by bubbling through water or other liquids .
Meantime , the mere fact that the electricity , whether positive or negative , given to air by an electrified needle point , can be conveyed through 3 or 4 metres of small metal tube ( 1 cm .
diameter ) , and shown on a quadrant electrometer by a receiving filter , is not without interest .
We may add now that , with the receiving filter removed and merely a fine platinum wire put in the mouth of the paraffin tunnel , we have found that enough of electricity is taken from the outflowing air to be amply shown by the quadrant electrometer ; which renders even more surprising the fact that the diselectrifying power of 120 strainers of fine wire-gauze should be so small as we have found it .
II .
" On the Conditions affecting Bacterial Life in Thames Water .
" By E. Frankland , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received January 31 , 1895 .
Since May , 1892,1 have been making monthly determinations of i the number of bacteria capable of development on a peptone-gelatine ^ plate in a given volume of Thames water collected at the intakes of f the Metropolitan water companies at Hampton .
The number of * microbes per cubic centimetre of water varied during this time between 631 and 56,630 , the highest numbers having , as a rule , been si

