I. " On a distinct form of Transient Hemiopsia .
" By ITUBERT AIRY , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by the Astronomer Royal .
Received January 6 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) From a comparison of the different accounts of " I emiopsia , " " Halfvision , " or " I-alf-blindness , " given by Dr. Wollaston ( Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 222 ) , M. Arago ( Annals de Chimie et de Physique , tom .
xxvii .
p. 102 ) , Sir David Brewster ( Phil. Mag. 1865 , vol. i. p. 503 , and Transactions of Royal Society of Edinburgh , vol. xxiv .
part 1 ) , the Astronomer Royal ( Phil. Mag. July 1865 , vol. ii .
p. 19 ) , Professor Dufour ( in a letter to the Astronomer Royal ) ; Sir John Herschel ( Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects , p. 406 , Lecture IX .
, and private letters ) , Sir CharlesWheatstone ( in a private letter ) , Mr. Tyrrell ( On the Diseases of the Eye , 1840 , vol. ii .
p. 231 ) , and the author of this paper , it is plain that there are different forms of transient Hemiopsia , irrespective of the wide primary distinction [ F eb .
17 , 21 between the transient and permanent forms , which have all been included under the same name Hemiopia or Hemiopsia .
It seems that Wollaston , Arago , Brewster , and Tyrrell are describing one form of the transient affection , while Sir John Herschel , Sir Charles Wheatstone , the Astronomer Royal , Professor Dufour , and the author agree in describing another .
In the experience of the former group , the limits of the blind region , as projected on the field of view , are ill-defined ; there is no variety of colour , and the progress of the disease presents no remarkable features .
In the latter group , the blind region is at first very small , and gradually spreads outwards , to left or right , with a zigzag margin of bright and dark lines , tinged in most cases with various colours , -clear vision gradually returning in the centre and following the outward advance of the curved cloud ; usually the blindness occupies only one lateral half of the field of view ; but in one very remarkable instance recorded by Sir John Herschel , the course of the cloud was from the extreme left to the extreme right , sweeping over the whole of the visual area .
Possibly the gap between these two forms may be filled by connecting links , as further evidence arises , and it may be found that they differ only in degree of prominence of different features .
The remarkable account given by Sir Charles Wheatstone ( who has kindly given permission for its publication ) , where the zigzag luminous lines are strongly marked , but without colour , perhaps offers the first link in the connecting chain .
The author 's experience dates from 1854 .
Since then he has repeatedly suffered from these attacks .
The circumstances and features of the complaint have varied somewhat in different attacks , but the type has remained unaltered from that time to this .
The blindness comes on usually while the eves are engaged in toilsome reading : some word or letter on the page near the sight-point ( generally below to the left ) is found to be obliterated ; this germ of blindness slowly spreads , with zigzag margin , defined by alternate bright and dark lines , with gleams of colour , the margin rapidly trembling and slowly rolling at the same time .
These three orders of motion , ( 1 ) gradual outward growth of the whole , ( 2 ) slow rolling of parts , ( 3 ) rapid tremor of the margin , are especially characteristic of this affection .
The region of blindness takes a horseshoe shape ; the upper arm points to the centre of sight , while the lower spreads downwards and outwards away from the centre .
The zigzag pattern is minute near the centre , and grows larger the further it recedes .
The gleams of colour , most conspicuous at the margin , are red and blue , yellow , green , orange , in order of frequency .
As the blindness spreads outwards , clear vision returns gradually in the concavity of the horseshoe .
The sight of both eyes is affected at once , exactly in the same manner and in the same degree ; though naturally that eye seems most affected which corresponds to the obliterated side of the field of view , because the nasal half of the field of view of either eye is more limited , and vision there is less distinct than on the temporal side .
Looking at any surface of uniform colour , the cloud partakes of the general hue of the field on which it lies , and shows little that is characteristic exceptits bright margin , tremor , and boiling .
Against bright light a faint shadowy curved cloud is seen , with bright margin , tremor and boiling , and slight colour .
Against dark shade the cloud is seen to show faint light .
When part of the cloud is seen against dark shade and part against bright light , the boundary between the light and shade is wholly obliterated .
Viewed in the dark , the cloud presents inherent luminosity , especially at the margin .
Its various colours are seen as well in dark as in light .
The cloud spreads outwards in horseshoe shape till it reaches the outskirts of the field of view , and fades away after great boiling and turbulence .
The lower arm is the first to fade , then the middle , and finally the upper arm , which remains pointing to the centre of the field to the very last .
The climax is reached in about twenty-five minutes from the first beginning .
The whole duration of the attack is just half an hour .
Often , midway in the attack , a fresh germ of blindness arises near the birthplace of the first , but always proves abortive unless it takes root on the opposite side , when a second attack may develope itself immediately after the first .
This half-bindness is followed by oppressive headache , lasting many hours .
From the resemblance of the angular margin of the cloud to a fortified wall " with salient and reentering angles , bastions , and ravelins " ( to use Sir John HIerschel 's words ) , the author ventures to suggest the name Teichopsia for this striking form of transient half-blindness .
Among the circumstances that have seemed to favour an attack may be mentioned sudden change of air and living , over-exercise , and insufficient sleep .
The attack has sometimes been nocturnal .
The most usual position of the germ of blindness is 3 ?
or 4 ?
below , and 3 ?
or 4 ?
to the left of the centre of vision .
In one or two cases , after reaching a certain stage , the cloud has parted in the middle , and died away without ripening .
The cloud , whether developed in the right or the left half of the field , has never ( the author believes ) transgressed the vertical median line .
Lately , one or two attacks have been followed by a slight disturbance of hearing .
Of three cases coming under the author 's immediate observation , in one these attacks have been very frequent , from an early age to middle life .
The bastioned outline is always present , with more or less colour .
Formerly the attendant headache used to be very severe , accompanied with prolonged vomiting .
Latterly the blindness has been more oppressive than the headache , and its advent greatly dreaded .
The speech is often affected , and sometimes the memory ; and on one occasion the mouth was noticed to be drawn to one side .
The cause has seemed to be mental anxiety .
In the second case , which is adduced for the sake of contrast , the phenomena are much less definite .
There is no serrated margin , no colour , no curve , nothing of which a picture can be made .
The obscurity grows from a small but ill-defined germ , and gathers like a cloudy film or gauze over the field , oppressive to the eyes , and accompanied by headache and nausea , and passes away after a doubtful period , leaving the impression that it is caused by disorder of the stomach .
In the third case , the blindness is sometimes brought on by looking at a striped wall-paper or a striped dress .
The appearance before the eyes is described as zigzag , wavy , quivering , without colour .
The first attack , in adult age , was followed by partial paralysis of one side , and later attacks have almost always had a sequel of defective speech , and tingling at the tip of the tongue , at the tip of the nose , and in the fingers and thumb .
At any rate it is certain that there does exist a distinct form of transient hemiopsia , presenting the following main characteristics:1 .
Dependence on mental anxiety , bodily exhaustion , overwork to the eyes , gastric derangement ( ?
) , want of exercise .
2 .
Origin from a small germ near the centre of vision .
3 .
Orderly centrifugal growth from the original germ .
4 .
Blindness to boundaries , but not to general impressions of light and colour .
5 .
Proper luminosity in the dark .
6 .
Bright-bastioned margin , with gleams of various colours .
7 .
Tremor and " boiling .
" 8 .
Gradual occupation of one lateral half of the field of view .
9 .
Gradual recovery of clear vision in rear of the outward-growing cloud .
10 .
Disappearance of the phenomenon after about half an hour .
11 .
Sequelae : headache and nausea , and sometimes affection of speech and hearing , and even symptoms of hemiplegia .
As to the actual seat of the visual derangement , the exact agreement of the two eyes in the nature , extent , and degree of their affection proves ( assuming the semidecussation of the optic nerves at the chiasma ) that the seat of the affection must lie at some point behind the chiasma of these nerves .
All the causes that are found to lead to transient halfblindness point to the brain as the seat of disturbance .
Still clearer is the evidence given by the loss of speech and of memory , the derangement of hearing , and the partial paralysis that sometimes follow an attack of teichopsia .
Such cases as Sir John Herschel 's , where the cloud passed over the whole field from left to right , can only be explained by supposing the disturbance to lie in some region of the brain where the opposite halves are in contact .
The mischief may possibly be seated in the corpora quadrigemina or geniculata , or even in the cerebellum itself .
As to the nature of the mischief in the brain , it is difficult to do more than hazard guesses .
Is it a temporary suspension of function among the nerve-cells of the visual sensorium , due to vascular congestion , and relieved by the relief of that congestion ?
Does the headache tell of the further propagation of the nervous disturbance into parts of the brain where disturbance is ache , as in the visual tract disturbance is abnormal sensation of light ?
And the detriment to speech and hearing , -does it mean extension of the same disturbance still further into the regions of brain-substance appropriate to those functions ?
Or is the attack in any way analogous to a fit of epilepsy ?
The phenomena are so definite and so localized , and their course is so regular , that we can hardly avoid the conviction that their cause is equally definite and equally localized ; and it is difficult to admit so vague al agent as nervous sympathy with gastric derangement , except as acting through the medium of some secondary local manifestation in the brain .

