III .
" On the Thermal Effect of delwing out a Film of Liquid .
" By Professor W1LLIAM THOMSON , F.R.S. , &amp;c. , being extract of two Letters to J. P. JOULE , LL. D. , F.R.S. , dated February 2 and 3 , 1858 .
Received April 30 , 1858 .
A very novel application of Carnot 's cycle has just occurred to me in consequence of looking this morning into Waterston 's paper on Capillary Attraction , in the January Number of the Philosophical Magazine .
Let T be the contractile force of the surface ( by which in Dr. Thomas Young 's theory the resultant effect of cohesion on a liquid mass of varying form is represented ) , so that , if 1 be the atmospheric pressure , the pressure of air within a bubble of the 4T liquid of radius r , shall be 4T + H. Then if a bubble be blown r from the end of a tube ( as in blowing soap-bubbles ) , the work spent , per unit of augmentation of the area of one side of the film , will be equal to 2T .
Now since liquids stand to different heights in capillary tubes at different temperatures , and generally to less heights at the higher temperatures , T must vary , and in general decrease , as the temperature rises , for one and the same liquid .
If T and Tt denote the values of the capillary tension at temperatures t and t ' of our absolute scale , we shall have 2(T-Tf ) of mechanical work gained , in allowing a bubble on the end of a tube to collapse so as to lose a unit of area at the temperature t and blowing it up again to its original dimensions after having raised its temperature to t ' .
If t--t be infinitely small , and be denoted by t , the gain of work may be expressed by 2dT ; dt and by using Carnot 's principle as modified for the Dynamical Theory , in the usual manner , we find that there must be an absorption of heat at the high temperature , and an evolution of heat at the low temperature ; amounting to quantities differing from one another by 1 -2dT dt and each infinitely nearly equal to the mechanical equivalent of this difference , divided by Carnot 's function , which is J , if the temperature is measured on our absolute scale .
Hence if a film such as a soap-bubble be enlarged , its area being augmented in the ratio of 1 to m , it experiences a cooling effect , to an amount calculable by finding the lowering of temperature produced by removing a quantity of heat equal to t -dT mx~ dt ' from an equal mass of liquid unchanged in form .
For water T=2'96 gr. per lineal inch .
Work per square inch spent in drawing out a film =5'92 , say dT 16 grains , tT , or thereabouts .
ti 300 Suppose T-,1390x12 ' then the quantity of heat to be removed , to produce the cooling effect , per square inch of surface of augmentation of film will be ln .
Suppose , then , 1 grain of water to be drawn out to a film of 16 square inches , the cooling effect will be 1T6o of a degree Centigrade , or about 1- .
The work spent in drawing it out is 16x 6=96 grains and is equivalent to a 96 1 heating effect of 12x 1390 74 ' Hence the total energy ( reck. .
oned in heat ) of the matter is increased 1+ ?
f a degree Centigrade , when it is drawn out to 16 square inches .

