V. " On the Constitution of Sea-Water , at different Depths , and in different Latitudes .
" By GEORGE FORCIIHAMIER , Ph. D. , Professor of Mineralogy in the University of Copenhagen .
Communicated by the President .
Professor Forchhammer was present at the Meeting , and , by request of the President , gave a statement of the principal results of his researches .
He first , however , took occasion to express his great satisfaction in being allowed the opportunity of personally and gratefully acknowledging the liberality with which men of science in this country had entered into his views and supplied him with specimens requisite for carrying on his inquiries ; and he particularly mentioned the name of a late distinguished Fellow of this Society , Sir James Clark Ross , who had kindly furnished various samples of sea-water procured in his Antarctic voyage .
The number of elements hitherto found in sea-water the author stated to be thirty-one , viz. Oxygen , Hydrogen , Azote in ammonia , Carbon in carbonic acid , Chlorine , Bromine , Iodine in fuci , Fluorine in combination with calcium , Sulphur as sulphuric acid , Phosphorus as phosphoric acid , Silicium as silica , Boron as boracic acid , discovered by the author both in sea-water and in sea-weeds , Silver in the Pocillopora alcicornis , Copper very frequent both in animals and plants of the sea , Lead very frequent in marine organisms , Zinc principally in sea-plants , Cobalt and Nickel in sea-plants , Iron , Manganese , Atlu minium , Magnesium .
, Calcium , Strontium and Barium , the latter two as sulphates in fucoid plants , Sodium , Potassium .
These twentyseven elements the author himself had ascertained to occur in seawater ; the presence of the next four elements , viz. Lithium , Cesiumt Rubidium , and Arsenic , has been shown by other chemists .
Of these elements only " .
a few occur in such quantity that their determination has any notable influence on the quantitative analysis of sea-water , viz. Chlorine , Sulphuric acid , Magnesia , Lime , Potash , and Soda .
The others , as far as their existence has been determined in the sea-water itself , are found in the residue which remains after evaporation to dryness and redissolution of the salts in water .
The author next stated that in the water of the ocean far from the shores the principal ingredients always occur very nearly in the same proportions .
If we assumne chlorine -100 , the mean proportion of the other leading constituents is as follows : Mean proportion .
Maximum .
Minimumo Sulphuric acid , .
11-89 12-09 11-65 Lime ... ... ... .
2-96 3-16 2-87 Magnesia ... ... . .
11-07 11-28 10-95 All salts ... ... . .
1811 181-4 180'6 These proportions apply only to specimens obtained at a long distance from shores , or in the open ocean .
In the interior of the Baltic , for instance , the proportion of chlorine to sulphuric acid is as 100 to 14-97-to lime as 100 to 7'48 ; and the proportion of chlorine to all salts as 100 to 223-0 .
This constant proportion of the different constituents in the ocean depends evidently not upon any chemical combination and affinity between the different substances , but upon the enormous quantity of salts in the whole ocean , which renders imperceptible any difference that might otherwise arise from the different proportion in which salts are carried into the sea by rivers .
It depends , besides , on the uniform action of the numberless organic beings inhabiting the ocean which abstract sulphuric acid , lime , potash , and magnesia from the water , and render them insoluble .
The mean quantity of solid matter in the water of the ocean generally , the author found to be 34'304 per 1000 .
To determine this mean quantity he has divided the ocean into regions , viz.:1st Region .
Atlantic , from the Equator to 30 ?
N. lat. ; mean 36-169 .
2nd Region .
Atlantic , from 30 ?
N. lat. to a line from the north of Scotland to the north of Newfoundland ; mean 35'976 .
3rd Region .
From the northern boundary of region 2 to the south coast of Greenland ; mnean 35'556 .
4th Region .
Davis 's Strait and Baffin 's Bay ; mean 33'167 .
5th Region .
Atlantic , between 0 and 30 ?
S. lat. ; mean 36'472 .
6th Region .
Atlantic , between 30 ?
S. lat. and a line from the southernmost point of Africa to the southernmost point of America ; mean 35'038 .
7th Region .
Between Africa and the East Indian Islands ; mean 33-868 .
8th Region .
Between the East Indian and the Aleutic Islands ; mean 33-506 .
9th Region .
Between the Aleutic and the Society Islands ; mean 35-219 .
10th Region .
The Patagonian stream of cold water ; mean 33 966 .
1 th .
The Antarctic region ; mean 28-563 .
Besides these regions of the great ocean , the author enumerates some other regions , which are under the decided influence of the surrounding land .
Such are the North Sea , with a mean quantity of solid matter of 32-806 per 1000 ; the Kattegat and Sound , with a mean of 15-126 the Baltic , mean 4-807 ; the Mediterranean , mean about 37'5 ; the Black Sea , mean 15-894 .
Of the proportion in the large bays of America the author had only one observation , viz. in water from the Caribbean Sea , in which the quantity of saline matter was found to be 36-104 per 1000 .
The author then showed that the equatorial regions contain the K2 1862 .
] I31 greatest percentage of saline matter , and that this peculiarity is owing to the evaporation under and in the neighbourhood of the line being greater than the quantity of water supplied by the rain falling on the sea and by the rivers flowing from the land ; that the equilibrium is maintained by polar currents , which bring water with less saline matter to the equatorial regions .
The mean quantity of saline ingredients in the equatorial regions of the ocean is about 36'2 per 1000 , while in the polar regions it is about 33'5 .
The North Atlantic Ocean contains much more salt than the South Atlantic , which the author explains by the prevailing influence of the Gulf-stream ; and from his analyses of many samples of water taken in the current which flows from N.E. to S.W. , between Iceland and the east coast of Greenland , he thinks it highly probable that this East Greenland current is in reality not a polar current , but a returning branch of the Gulf-stream , its mean quantity of salt being nearly the same as in the northern part of the Atlantic Ocean , viz. 35'5 per 1000 .
The author then compared the Mediterranean with the Baltic , and stated that there is a double current at the entrance of the Baltic as well as in the Straits of Gibraltar ; but with this difference , that the under-current of the Mediterranean runs out of , and the surfacecurrent generally runs into , that sea ; whereas the under-current of the Baltic is an entering one , and the surface-current of the Sound generally runs out into the Kattegat and North Sea .
He showed , moreover , that the deep water in both seas is richer in salt than that from the surface , and consequently has a greater specific gravity .
In the Atlantic he found the reverse , viz. that the quantity of saline ingredients in the water decreases with the depth , if the samples are taken at some distance from the shore ; and as his analyses are sufficiently numerous , and include specimens from great depths ( 12,000 feet ) , he considers this unexpected result to be tolerably well established .
He thinks that this fact would prove the existence of a polar current in the depths of the Atlantic , as well as in some parts of its surface .
In the sea to the east of Africa he found the quantity of saline matter slightly increasing with the depth .
13

