Notes on Quantitative Spectra , of Beryllium .
" Notes on Quantitative Spectra of Beryllium .
" By W. NT .
Hartley , I).Sc .
, F.R.S. , Boyal College of Science , Dublin .
Beceived October 31 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1901 .
In a quantitative examination made in 1885 of all the known methods of separating beryllium from aluminium and from iron , the various precipitates obtained were dissolved and diluted to a known volume corresponding with the amount of bases in solution .
The solutions were spectrographically examined , and the photographs compared with others taken from solutions containing accurately weighed quantities of pure beryllia .
The coil used was capable of giving a 5-inch spark in air .
In place of a Leyden jar a pane of glass coated on each side with a square foot of tinfoil was used .
The electrodes* were Ceylon graphite as in other experiments , the sole impurity in which was a trace of magnesium .
The following tabulated statement gives the wave-lengths of the lines , together with a description of the spectra photographed from solutions of different strengths ( see next page ) .
The actual length of the line 2478*1 , as rendered by solutions of 0*00001 per cent , and 0*000001 per cent , strength , is , in the former , 0*07 , and , in the latter , 0*05 of an inch .
The normal length of the line at this part of the spectrum is 0*22 of an inch .
The quantity of substance yielding this spectrum is equivalent to one-millionth of a milligramme of beryllium .
As I have pointed out in the case of magnesium , !
so also is it with beryllium , that the sensitiveness of the spectrum reaction may be increased ten thousand-fold by using a larger coil and more powerful condenser , but leaving the striking distance between the electrodes unaltered .
The coefficient of complete extinction was therefore practically not attainable for all the lines , or , in other words , the sensitiveness of the reaction is almost without limit .
It will also be seen from my description of the spectra , which have been quite recently re-examined , that the coefficient of extinction of the two lines A. 3130*3 and 2478*1 had not been reached by the dilution specified .
A number of thin sections of the Dublin granite containing micro scopic crystals of hexagonal form were examined some years ago .
The crystals were supposed to be apatite , but a very carefully executed analysis disclosed the fact that the proportion of phosphoric acid contained in 20 grammes of the rock was almost infinitesimal , and that on warming thin sections , in which the hexagonal crystals were visible , with nitric acid and ammonium molybdate , no deposit of yellow * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1884 , Part I , p. 49 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1884 , Part II , p. 325 .
VOL. LXIX .
X Strength of Solutions or Degrees of Dilution shown by per cent , of Beryllium .
Beryllium wave-lengths I ( Howland 's scale ) .
1 per cent. 0 *1 per cent. 0 *01 per cent. ] 0 *001 per cent. 0 0001 per cent. 0 '00001 per cent. 0 000001 per cent. 3322 3 A continuous line Half of the line is much weakened A very short 1 line !
A faint indication s Extinct 1 Extinct | Extinct .
3130-3 A continuous line A continuous line One-half of the line weakened One-half of the line weakened i .
Line shorter !
by one-half | 1 One-half the line still strong !
Nearly one-half , still strong .
2649-8 A continuous line Half of the line is weakened A very short line Very short line A dot merely j A dot I A dot .
2493-6 A continuous line Half of the line is weakened Yery short line Yery short line A very faint dot | A dot , scarcely visible A dot , scarcely visible .
2478 1 A continuous line A continuous line A short line A very fine short line Yery short line 1 A very fine short line A very fine short line .
284 Notes on Quantitative Spectra of Ben On the Prothalliumof ammonium phospho-molybdate could be detected by the microscope .
A spectrographic analysis showed that these crystals were really beryls , and similar crystals a millimetre in length were picked out of the granite .
They were found to contain between 10 and 11 per cent , of beryllia .
Since then beryIlia has been separated from the alumina of felspar obtained from the granite in Glen Cullen in proximity to a vein of coarse granite in which beryls were found by Dr. John Joly .
From numerous experiments on the analytical processes employed in the separation of beryllia from alumina , it was found that it remained combined with the sesquioxide bases in so persistent a manner as to lead to the belief that ordinary alumina might be found more often than not to contain traces of beryllia , particularly as there is no easily applied chemical test for detecting its presence in small quantities , nor a simple means of separating it .
It has , however , been found that such is not the case , though gallium has been ascertained to be present in almost all minerals which contain aluminium .
As they belong to the same group , the two elements aluminium and gallium may be expected to form isomorphous mixtures , which would account for their being so constantly associated in nature ; but the position of beryllium in the periodic system of classification shows that a similar behaviour with that element is scarcely probable .
\#171 ; Preliminary Account of the Prothullium of Phylloglossum .
By A. P. W. Thomas , M.A. , F.L.S. , University College , Auckland , N.Z. Communicated by Professor G. B. Howes , F.R.S. Received October 31 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1901 .
Our knowledge of the development of the Isosporous Lycopodinge is still so incomplete that no apology seems necessary for the present preliminary statement .
A special interest attaches to Phylloglossum since it has been recognised as a permanently embryonic form of Lycopod.* Phylloglossum is a genus with a single species\#151 ; P. Drummondii__confined to Australia and New Zealand .
The sporophyte generation is a small plant , growing from a tuber , which forms a tuft of a few cylindrical tapering leaves .
In fertile plants the apex of the stem forms a peduncle , terminated by a cone or strobilus of small , scale-like , fertile leaves .
Treub has shown that the embryo of L. cernuum shows a remarkable likeness to a barren plant of Phylloglossum , for the first formed leaves have the character of the leaves of Phylloglossum ; hence the term protophylls has been given to these structures , so different from the * Bower , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1886 , p. 676 .

