]\gt ; Prof. W. J. Sollas .
: ' On the mate Structure of Crystals .
Part of the Cubic System with Cubic Cleavage By W. } SOLLAS , .D .
, D.Sc .
, F.R. , Professor of Geology in tt University of Oxford .
Received March 8 , \mdash ; Read Marchl 1898 .
The remaining metals and diatomic compounds which in the lbic system and possess cubic cleavage are few in some of them form the subject of the present commtlnication .
atomic compounds fulfilling these conditions are left for later sideration .
Ammonium chloride.\mdash ; M. ( Scbroder ) ; .
Volume of four molecnles , Edge of cubelet , or sum of the diameters of one mole cule of and one atom of Cl. , $1408 . . . . . . . . . .
Diameter of one atom of Cl. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gross volume of ; volume of molecular of Galena , to ( taken ) ; volume of .
molecules , Edge of cubelet or of Diameter of one atom of Pb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead enters into combination lvithout change of volume .
Gross atomic volume of Pb , ; olume of atomic sphere , .
Gross volume of Lead selenide , PbSe . .
Volume of four molecules , Edge of cubelet or diameter of . .
Diameter of one atom of Pb . . . . . . . . . . . .
Se . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.571 , Gross volume of Se , ; volume of atomic sphere , Of the oxides which crystallise in the cubic system with cubio cJeavagc only three are sufticiently well known to afford data for On the Intimate Structure of stals .
eatment ; these are calcium , magnesium , and stannous oxides .
The etals calcium and magnesium undergo a considerable amount of )ndensation on entering into c , ombination ; it will therefore be more )nvenient to select stannous oxide as the compound which is to serve 3 the basis for obtaining the relative diameter of oxygen ; but this urse is not without its disadvantages , for diffelent values have even { iound by ferent experimenters for the specific gravity of bannous oxide , and the same is true of the metal tin itself , which urther has the additional defect of stallising , not in the cubic , ut in the tetragonal system .
Tin.\mdash ; At .
; to ; mean , ( taken ) .
Gross atomic volume , ; voIume of atomic sphere , eter of atom , Oxide , Sr. O.\mdash ; M. ( Nordenskjold ) , at C. ( Berzelius , Ditte ) .
The lafter value is taken . .
Volume of four molecules , Edge of cubelet or diameter of . . . .
Diameter of one atom of Sn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gross volume of oxygen , ; volume of atomic sphere , oxide , Volume of four molecules , Edge of ctlbelet or diameter of Diameter of one atom of O. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ca . . . . . .
2.27 Gross volume of Ca , .
The gross volume of Ca in the metallic state is Periclase , .\mdash ; M. ; Volume of four molecules , Edge of cubelet or diameter of NfgO . . . .
Diameter of one atom of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.6936 Gross volume of Mg , .
The gross volume of in the metallic state is .
It crystallises in the system .
These resuIts are more or less uncertain ; it must be borne in mind that the volume of oxygen diifelB greatly in different compounds .
The metals which r.emain for consideration in the present communication are as follows:\mdash ; Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Copper.\mdash ; At .
; at .
atomic sphere , ; diameter , Gold.\mdash ; At .
at ; at .
Diameter of atomic sphere , Iron.\mdash ; At .
, 56 ; at ( Caron ) ; at .
Diameter of atomic sphere , ; or ; Austen ) ; at .
} , of atomic sphere , Manganese.\mdash ; At .
, 55 ; at ; at .
Diameter of atomic sphere , Platinum.\mdash ; At .
at ; at .
Diameter of atomic sphere , Palladium.\mdash ; At .
, 106 ; at Diameter of atomic sphere , The Absorption of Hydro by Palladium.\mdash ; Strong confirmato evidence of the existence the open packing which we have assign to the metals cl'ystallising in the cubic system is afforded phenomenon of solid solution ( so lled ) , and particularly by tl absorption of hydrogen by palladium .
When similar spheres arranged in open cubic order , they form ight rows in contac runmng parallel to the edges of the cube they constitute , and corr sponding to these files of sphcrcs are open galleries , lying and running parallel with them .
Through these galleries atoms , small enough , might pass from end to end without encountering an obstacle , and thus the transpiration of hydrogen through metalli plates might be ] ained .
rther , between every set of eigh atoms , forming a primitive cube of the pile , the gallery idens ou a , in which an atom smaller than that of the meta might conceivably lodge .
The diameter of an atom which coult occupy the space between atoms , a primitive cube , palladium , can readily be calculated .
The diameIer of an atom : palladium has already been mined to be 2.103 , the edge of cubelet formed of eight atoms is therefore and the length ot the trigonal axis of such a cube is ; and , the length of the diameter of an atom , which would just occupy the central space .
This estimate , however , requlre.s modification , by virtue of the fact that palladium progres sively lncreases in volume as the absorption of hydrogen takes plaoe .
Tn Dewar 's determinations the expansion was measured by the change produced in the specific gravity of the palladium ; the lowest specific gravity which Dewar observed was 10.8033 ; this gives for the edge of the primitive cube a value of 4.2818 .
Assuming that the atoms of palladium have not ed in volume by absorbing energy , but simply become more remote from one another , we may as follows : , the length of the On the lntimate Structure of Crystals .
nal axis of the primitive cube , and thus diameter of an atom which could jnst occupy the central Lerspace of the primitive cubelet .
The cube of this number will us the gross volume of the atom of occluded hydrogen ; it is .
If now we turn to Rucker 's address on " " The Range of olecular Forces * we find the most probab ] estimates given for the lume of hydrogen ( H ) are as follows :From K ( Boltzman ) ; from cart ) ; from ( Van der Waals O. Meyer ) .
Between these numbers and that we have just tained there is a very remarkable concordance .
It may further be observed that the number of such interspaces as have considered is , to the number of atoms among lvhich they lie , the ratio of 1 : 1 , so that from purely geometrical considerations might be inferred that the limiting value for the absorption of drogen by palladium would be reached with the formation of the .
Observation shows that this limit is never exJleded , never even attained , while that which is reached may fairly represented by the .
It is obvious that purely ometrical considerations are not all that are involved , and to dislss other factors would be to trespass beyond our province .
There one point in direct connection with our inquiry which must not , owever , be disregarded .
The value we have found for the diameter of ydrogen was ) tained on the assumption that all the spaces occupied by hydrogen , which would only be the case if ere formed ; the observed ratio , , would lead us to believe that my two-thirds of the spaces are so occupied .
This renders necesa correction in our estimate , which would slightly incrcase the imensions of the hydrogen atom .
It is not sible , however , to ltroduce this correction , on account of the absence of information egarding the ystalline form assumed by .
If crysbals of alladium be capable of taking a charge of hydrogen , there shouId no difficulty in ascertaining whether a change in clystalline orm accompanies occlnsion .
On the assumption that the maximum xpansion of palladium due to occlusion is contined to two-thirds of he volume of the metal experimen bed upon , I find that the diamctet the hydrogen atom should be .
Possibly the assumption is defensible , but in any case it appear that the amount of oincidence we have already obtained between the dimensions of the lydrogen atom , as calculated from the crystalline structurc we ve ( ssigned to palladium ( along with other metals ) and the which follow from other modes of inquiry , affords jion of our hypothesis .
The absorption of hydrogen by potassium easily take placc without producing any marked expansion , i.e. , so far as the relative * ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. , p. 257 , 1888 .
Prof. F. Gotch and Mr. G. J. Burch .
Electrical dimensions of the atoms are concerned in the matter , for ths space in the centre of a primitive cube of potassium is largo to house atom of a gross volume exceeding 17 .
the case of iron the central space is notably smaller that of palladium ; supposing no nsion to occur on the 1 atom it couId contain would have a diameter of corresponding to a volume of It is probable , however , that a change in crystalline systemis associated with the absorption of gases by iron and nickel .
is suggested by the curious effect produced on the nature of metals by repeated absorption of hydrogen , at least in the nickel , which loses its cohesion and after repeated treatment becors converted into a friable powder .
The galleries by ranges of centlal spaces present strictions at intervals to the places where the spheres ming the face of a cubelet are most closely apprcmate ; the ratio of the diameter of a sphere that could one of these constrictions is to that of a sphere which would occupy a central space as .
Hence the passage of an into the central chamber involves either a displacement ato surrounding the entrance or a contraction in the volume of entering guest .
Is it possible that the " " singing\ldquo ; of palladiu .
accompanies the ocess of occlusion , is connected with vibl { ory movements of atoms as they open and close the entrances the central chambers In conclusion it may be pointed out that all the metals which a known to occlude hydrogen , , potassium , sodium , iron , nickel , platinum , and palladium , are paramagnetic , ) lllagnesium being the only cases of an uncertain nature , while le ' and gold , which offer roomy central spaces for the occupation en , but do not absorb it , are netic .
" " Response of Nerve to a Single with Capillary Electrometer .
ication.\ldquo ; By F. GOTCH , M.A. , F.R. Professor of Physiology , University of Oxf.ord , and ( Oxoll ) .
Reccived April May 1898 .
The changes which evoked in nerve by a imulus have up to the present been but little investigated Th examination of the phenomena has been almost entirely limited observations upon the lometric deflections caused by the summel effects of a rapid succession of excitations , and rheotome

