198 On the Volcanic Eruption in Strait .
[ Jan. 1( " Bk the paper already referred to ; both the mirrors stood the ted satisfactorily , the polish of the steel being very slightly the best .
1 These experiments appear to show that the generally receive !
formulae for metallic reflection are approximately correct , but that tb actual intensity of the reflected light is always less than the theoretical intensity , and that therefore , unless this be due to defects in th metallic surfaces , the formulae do not completely express the laws q| metallic reflection .
If , as appears to be the case , a change in th reflective power of a plate can occur without any change in the values of the principal incidence and azimuth , it is neoessary to regard th formulae as only approximately true , and there is additional reason fo| thinking that , as Professor Stokes has suggested , three constants arc required to define a metal optically .
I hope hereafter to determine the amount of light reflected by films of silver chemically deposited on glass , and also to make soma determinations of the amount of radiant energy reflected by metallic !
surfaces at various angles , the experiments of MM .
de la Prevostaye ; and Desains on this point having been but few in number .
III .
" Extracts from a Report on the Volcanic Eruption in| Sunda Strait by Commander the Honourable F. C. P.j Vereker , H.M.S. 'Magpie , ' dated Singapore , October 22 , j 1883 .
" Communicated by Sir Frederick Evans , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received December 15 , 1883 .
[ Plates 2 , 3 .
] # # # On the 18th instant I entered Sunda Strait , passing east'of j Thwart-way Island , This island had been reported to be split by the j eruption into several portions .
This is incorrect .
The island is intersected by low valleys in several places , these being covered with tall trees did not show so prominently formerly as they do now .
The whole of the vegetation having been swept away by the tidal wave the island at a short distance off is apparently divided , the low necks joining the higher portions being only visible on close approach .
The surface of the Strait in this neighbourhood is covered with extensive fields of floating pumice stone , often in one to two foot cubes , through which the ship easily forced her way .
* * * # # # I enclose sketches which I trust will convey the general appearance better than a written description .
The whole of the neighbourhood is covered with greenish-yellow mud , and all traces of vegetation are everywhere destroyed .
INDIAN OCEAN - SUNDA STRAIT .
I Vereker .
l\amp ; oJ-COUboOU IsloUYld/ , after thd Eruption , of August 1883 , from sketches tocken , in , the , folLo^vinoj October .
Eroc .
Roy .
Soc. 1884 : .
Rhode 2 .
Vereker .
INDIAN OCEAN \#151 ; SUN DA STRAIT .
Krodtouboou IsIsOUfbcl/ , after* the Eruption , erf Aitof test 1883 , from .
' sketches taJcen , bn , the following October .
Eroc .
Roy .
Soc.l8 84\gt ; .
JPloute 3 .
totally cLevoid , of veo/ etatLon*/ everywhere seottrved , by the locvoc , streoums , ourvdU covered , deposit of cjreewish brown .
m-vut .
Sketch of former shape of Krookcubo ou in , the yeour 1870 .
The new crater formed .
In , May 1883 , is from a , sic etch by the .
Caf\gt ; tod , n , of H.N.TVT .
S. Qvueem .
JEmwia , , JPectk 2T.R .
( wux^j-rtetic ) about 8 miles .
The cliff formed by the.tlru-plion .
in , August 1883 , is shown , by the dark shaudinyf .
'WestNewiaan .
Se .
C ?
lit } ) .
1884.1 On the Volcanic Eruption in Sunda 199 I communicated personally with the captain of the Netherlands frigate " Queen Emma " stationed on the spot , and was informed by !
him that the changes are considerably more extensive than was at first thought , and that Verlaten Island is still in a state of activity as well as Krakatoa itself .
From observation he thinks that another eruption is impending , but that Verlaten Island will be the centre of disturbance .
The Netherlands Government vessel " Hydrograaf " obtained a sounding of 100 fathoms without reaching bottom , in the centre of the group and off the cliff falling from Krakatoa Peak .
The two new islands are low mud and pumice banks , their configuration is continually altering , and I was informed that they are gradually subsiding .
#*#### It is still impossible to examine Lampong Bay , but the pumice stone is now beginning to float out .
The light on Fourth Point ( Java ) has been temporarily replaced by one of the 6th order , visible five miles , but beside this there are no signs of life on the Java shore .
The whole coast is covered with the debris of trees , \amp ; c. , demolished by the earthquake sea-wave , and over all lies a thick incrustation of volcanic mud .
During the height of the eruption a terrific whirlwind and a fierce south-westerly gale , apparently local , was experienced .
# * * # # # IV .
Report from H.B.M. Consul at Batavia , enclosing Extract relating to the Volcanic Outbursts in the Sunda Strait , from the Logbook of the Steam-ship " Governor-General Loudon .
" Communicated by R. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1883 .
Sunday , 26thAugust.\#151 ; Left the roadstead , Batavia , at 8.10 A.M. , and steered through the inside channel .
At 9.80 a.m. , steering between the islands Great Kombuis ( or Lantjang ) and Pulo Lakki ( or Mometer or Cannibal Island ) , sighted the Kombuis red buoy due north , while at 10 a.m. the white Cannibal buoy lay due south .
Rounded Point St. Nicholas , and taking our bearings from the land proceeded through Sunda Strait to the roadstead of Anjer , where we anchored at 2 p.m. A{\gt ; Anjer we took on board 111 passengers , coolies arid women bound for Sibogha , and left Anjer roadstead again at 2.45 P.M. , and taking our bearings from the land we ran past Pulo Soengjan , or " Right in the Fairway " Island , past Hog Point and Lampong Bay , and then discovered that the island of Krakatau was casting forth enormous VOL. xxxvi .
p

