VI .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
XVII .
Mixed Triammonias containing Monatomic and Diatomic Radicals .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 29 , 1861 .
Diethylene-triamine and triethylene-triamine , a short history of which I laid before the Royal Society some weeks ago , are the first terms of a group of a series of triatomic nitrogen-bases , whose construction and composition may be varied almost ad fins/ itum .
Similar compounds , there can be no doubt , will be produced by all the homologues of ethylene .
With the exception of a few experiments on the action of ammonia on dibromide of methylene , I have not hitherto entered upon this part of the inquiry .
Not less numerous is the series of triatomic bases derived from the ethylene-triamines by the further substitution of either monatomic or diatomic radicals for the remaining hydrogen-equivalents .
I have satisfied myself that the ethylenated triammonias are powerfully acted upon by the iodides of methyl and ethyl , and likewise by dibromide of ethylene .
I have not examined in detail the substances produced in these reactions , but I have had occasion to glance at the ethylated derivatives of the ethylene-triamines when studying the diatomic bases generated by the action of dibromide of ethylene upon the ethylated monamines .
In a former note I have pointed out that the action of dibromide of ethylene on ethylamine gives rise to the formation of ( 0 CA)ii Ethylene-diethyldiamine ( C2H5)2 N2 H and Diethylene-diethyldiamine ( C2H4)2 } N2 .
These two compounds constitute the chief part of that portion of the volatile bases derived from ethylamine which , after several rectifications , passes over below 200 ? .
The bases boiling above 200 ?
are a mixture which , dissolved in hydrochloric acrd , yields with dichloride of platinum a splendidly crystallized platinum-salt .
By numerous crystallizations this salt may be separated into one which is difficultly soluble in water , and another which is far more soluble .
The analysis of these platinum-compounds proved them to be the salts of two bases , the formation of which in the above reaction was pointed out by theory , namely , of Diethylene-triethyltriamine CoH , ,N , = ( 0a , H)3 N2J and Triethylene-triethyltriamine 1C,127iN = ( CH4)3 } N3 Both these bases are oily liquids , powerfully caustic , extremely soluble in water , which boil between 220 ?
and 250 ? .
I have not prepared them in quantity sufficient for an accurate determination of their boiling-points .
Both form neutral crystalline salts which are extremely soluble in water , and also , though less so , in alcohol .
I have established the composition of triethylated diethylene-tria .
mine by the analysis of the chloride and bromide , which contain respectively , Trichloride C , , H2 N3 Cl3 1 ( C3 H , ) , Ni C13 and Tribromide Co H28N3Br3 = ( C2H05 ) N3 Br , .
I have also determined the composition of the platinum-salt and of the gold-salt .
Both are well-defined beautifully crystalline compounds containing , Platinum-salt Co Hs N3 Pt3 C1 = ( C0 I5)3 N3 C3 , 3Pt Cl L 115 JJ Gold-salt C11 , , 1 , N3 A 1u , C , , 1(C , H , )I NI 03 3Au Cl. L I1J J The simple salts of triethylated triethylene-triamine are far more soluble than those of the triamine previously mentioned .
I have therefore been satisfied to establish the composition of their base by the analysis of the platinum-salt and of the gold-salt .
The platinumsalt is extremely soluble in water , and crystallizes only when the solution is evaporated nearly to dryness .
The analysis of these compounds has led to the following formulase:r(C 14)3 N Platinum-salt C 1132 N3 Pt3 Cl = ( C211)3 , H ) , C , 1(C2 , )* ] ] i3 CCH ) Gold-salt 0c2 1133 Au3 Cl0 =| ( C0 H3)3 } N3 Cl3 , 3AuCl , .
L C2H JJ Whilst engaged in the study of the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ethylamine , I occasionally observed among the bases of higher boiling-points an alkaline compound remarkable for the insolubility of its chloride in alcohol .
By this behaviour it was easily separated from all the other basic substances accompanying it .
This base was found to be Diethylene-diethyltriamine , C it21 N3 = ( C2 HI )2 3 .
113 Among the salts of this base are some of the finest compounds which have come under my notice in this inquiry .
The chloride crystallizes in leaves of the lustre of mother-of-pearl , very soluble in water , almost insoluble even in ordinary alcohol , insoluble in ether .
It contains , Trichloride 0 , H3 N , 013 = r( 1E ) } N3 C13 .
L 113 JJ The corresponding iodide is much more soluble , it was found to have the composition , F(C2H 4)2 ' 1 1H Tri-iodide C0 t114 N13 = ( C02 15)2 JN3 13 .
To obtain this salt it is necessary to employ a great excess of hydriodic acid .
The ethylated ethylene-triamines exhibit the same tendency to form diatomic salts which I have pointed out in describing the ethylenetriamines themselves .
A solution of diethylene-diethyltriamine just neutralized with hydriodic acid deposits in fact a diatomic salt , ( C2 ]H]:~)2ii }C H23 N3 I2 ( C , H ) N3 2111 .
The finest salt of this base is the nitrate .
Readily soluble in hot , and moderately soluble in cold water , it is deposited from a saturated solution on cooling in large rectangular tables presenting the aspect of nitrate of silver .
The combustion of this salt has led to the formula Trinitrate CH I24 N 09=(C2 H)2 N3i ( NO)3 .
The formation of the diethylated diethylenetriamine is readily intelligible .
I have satisfied myself that the origin of this body was always due to the presence of minute quantities of ammonia which had not been entirely removed from the ethylamine employed in the reaction .
r(c211 ) +E1 1i [ ( 0 iii 3H +H N N+2 [ ( 0II4 ) Br2]= ( C2 1iH5 ) N Br + [ ( N Br The formation of diethylene-diethyltriamine furnishes an elegant illustration of the simple mechanism involved in the construction of the polyatomic bases .

