The following papers were read:1 .
" Supplementary Observations on the Structure of the Belemnite and Belemnoteuthis .
" By Gideon Algernon Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Vice-Presidenit of the Geological Society , &amp;c. In this communication the author describes his recent investigations on the structure of the two genera of fossil Cephalopoda , whose remains occur so abundantly in the Oxford clay of Wiltshire , namely , the Beleimnite and Belemnoteuthis , as supplementary to his memoir on the same subeject , published in the Phil. Trans. 1848 .
In that paper evidence was adduced to show the correctness of the opinion of the late Mr. Channing Pierce as to the generic distinction of these two extinct forms of Cephalopoda .
As however several eminent naturalists had expressed doubts as to some of the opinions advanced by the author in his former memoir , figures and descriptions are given in the present notice , of beautiful and instructive specimens lately discovered in Wiltshire , and which he conceives establish his previous conclusions .
Dr. Mantell then states as the result of his examination of several hundred examples , that our knowledge of the organization of the animal of the Belemnite is at present limited to the following parts , viz.1 .
An external Ccpsule orperiostracztm which invested the osselet or sepiostaire , and extending upwards , constituted the external sheath of the receptacle .
2 .
The Osselet , characterized by its fibrous radiated structure , terminating distally in a solid rostrum or guard , having an alveolus , or conical hollow , to receive the apical portion of the chambered phragmocone ; and expanding proximally into a thin cup , which became confluent with the capsule , and formed the receptacle for the viscera .
3 .
The Phracinocone , or chambered , siphunculated , internal shell ; the apex of which occupied the alveolus of the guard , and the upper part constituted a capacious chamber , from the basilar margin of which proceeded two long , flat , testaceous processes .
These structures comprise all that are at present known of the animlal to which the fossil commonly called " Th ?
e Belemnite , " belonged .
Of the Belemnoteuthis , the fossil cephalopod which Prof. Owen regards as identical with the Belemnite , many examples of the body with eight uncinated arms , and a pair of long tentacula , having an ink-bag and pallial fins , have been discovered .
The osselet of this animal , like that of the Belemnite , has a fibro-radiated structure , investing a conical chambered shell ; but this organ , for reasons fully detailed in the memoir , the author considers could never.have been contained within the alveolus of a Belemnite ; the soft parts of the animal of the Belemnite are therefore wholly unknown .
Many beautiful specimens of Belemnites and Belemnoteuthis were

