183 876 .
] On certain cases of Electromotive Force .
nboiled tube being the most turbid of the three .
The infusion here ras peculiarly limpid after digestion ; for turnip it was quite excep-ional , and no amount of searching with the microscope could reveal in fc at first the trace of a living Bacterium .
still germs were there which , uitably nourished , passed in a single day into Bacterial swarms without lumber .
Five days have not sufficed to produce an effect approximately squal to this in the boiled tube , which was uninfected but exposed to the !
ommon laboratory air .
There cannot , moreover , be a doubt that the germs in the air differ videly among themselves as regards preparedness for development .
Some ire fresh , others old ; some are dry , others moist .
Infected by such germs :he same infusion would require different lengths of time to develop Bacterial life .
This remark applies to and probably explains the different degrees of rapidity with which epidemic disease acts upon different people .
In some the hatching-period , if it may be called such , is long , in some short , the differences depending upon the different degrees of preparedness of the contagium .
The author refers with particular satisfaction to the untiring patience , the admirable experimental skill , the veracity in thought , word , and deed displayed throughout this first section of a large and complicated inquiry by his assistant , Mr. John Cottrell , who was zealously aided by his junior colleague , Mr. Frank Valter .
February 4 , 1876.\#151 ; J. T. January 20 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Lord Aberdare and the Right .
Hon. George Sclater-Booth , whose Certificates had been suspended , as prescribed by the Statutes , were balloted for and elected Fellows of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. t(Certain cases of Electromotive Force sustained by the Action of Electrolytes on Electrolytes .
" By J. Hopkinson .
Communicated by Sir W. Thomson .
Received November 29th , 1875 .
In the following experiments the electromotive force was observed by a quadrant electrometer arranged for maximum sensibility ; the conMr .
J , Hopkinson on certain [ Jan. 20 .
nexions were made through the reversing-key ; and , excepting the time observations for polarization , the readings were made twice at least on each side of the zero-point .
A single Daniell 's element gave 105 divisions deflection each way , so that in the following the unit of electromotive force js Tjrg .
the electromotive force of Daniell 's element .
In all cases the electrodes were platinum wires dipping into the fluid under examination .
In the experiments on polarization the circuit was readily closed for a specified time by bringing the platinum wires into contact , and broken by releasing them ; the electromotive force could then be observed at any instant after breaking the circuit .
I. Strong sulphuric acid was poured into a test-tube , which dipped into a porcelain crucible containing caustic potash .
Thus the acid and alkali were separated by the glass of the tube .
Platinum electrodes dipped into the two liquids .
Electromotive force of 70 divisions was observed , the acid being positive .
The crucible was heated by a spirit-lamp till the potash began to boil , the electromotive force increased to 153 .
The lamp was removed and the crucible allowed to cool ; the electromotive force steadily diminished to 78 in half an hour .
The tube was then discharged and insulated to observe the rate at which the charge developed .
E.F , 15 seconds after insulation , 67 30 " " 69 60 " " 69 II .
The tube , crucible , and wire were thoroughly washed with cold water and replaced in position , but with water in place of both the acid and the alkali .
The inside of the tube where the acid had been was now negative .
E. E.=16^- .
Heating to boiling the deflection increased to 150 divisions , but sank to 2 on cooling . .
III .
The test-tube contained potash and dipped into water in the crucible .
When cold , E. E.=33 , the potash being negative ; when heated to boiling , E. E.=36\#163 ; .
IV .
The tube contained strong sulphuric acid and dipped into water ; a deflection of less than three divisions was observed .
When heated till the water boiled , the reading was 35 , After cooling the deflection decreased to 5 .
V. The test-tube was removed and a small porcelain crucible introduced in its place ; sulphuric acid was poured into the outer crucible , potash into the inner ; platinum electrodes dipped into the liquids .
On heating till the potash boiled , the electromotive force rose as high as 162 .
The decrease of the electromotive force as the liquids cooled was then observed .
Time in minutes .
E. F. 0 ... 155 boiling .
32 ... 94 still warm .
91 ... 88 quite cold .
181 ... ... .
... 88 876 .
] cases of Electromotive Force .
185 The author supposed these effects to be due to electrolytic action irough the glass , not suspecting the true cause , excepting in V. But ir William Thomson pointed out to him that the rate of development if the charge was greater than could occur through a substance of the awe conductivity of the most conducting glass , and that the circuit must lave been completed by conduction through a film of moisture on the urface of the glass . .
The next two experiments prove this to be the ; as .
VI .
Drops of strong sulphuric acid and of caustic potash were placed on a sheet of common window-glass , previously carefully cleaned , but exposed to the air of the room .
Platinum electrodes , dipping into each drop , communicated with the electrometer .
1 .
Drops half an inch apart , E.E. = 47 .
2 .
The drops were connected by a thin trail of alkali drawn from the drop of alkali ; E. E. = 105 .
8 .
Drops 5 inches apart , two minutes being allowed for the charge to develop ; E. E. = 12 .
4 .
A trail was drawn halfway from one drop to the other ; E. E.=31 .
5 .
The trail of liquid was continued till but ^ inch of clear glass separated the liquids ; E. E. = 43 .
6 .
The connecting trail was completed from one drop to the other ; E. E. = 70 .
It was observed that the potash trail had dried up , leaving a line of alkali between the drops .
VII .
A dry chip of deal 6 inches long was split at each end , and a platinum wire let into each slit ; the two wires were moistened with sulphuric acid and potash respectively at the points of contact with the wood ; E. E. = 43 .
VIII .
Clean platinum wires were let into slits in a second dry chip of deal 12 inches long ; these were connected for twenty minutes with the poles of a battery of twoDaniell 's elements , and then detached and connected through the reversing-key with the electrometer .
As was expected an electromotive force opposite to that of the battery was observed , at first amounting to 33 divisions .
These experiments show that imperfect insulation , such as glass exposed to the air or wood , may cause errors in electrical experiments , not merely by leakage , but by introducing unknown electromotive forces , arising either from the imperfect insulators connecting different liquids , or from electrolytic polarization after a current has for some time been creeping through or over the surface of the insulators .
Several experiments were , then tried on the direct action of liquids on liquids ; two only are given here , because determinations have been made by other methods by Becquerel and others .
IX .
In a previous experiment a plug of moist sand had been rammed into the bend of a TJ-tube , and strong sulphuric acid and caustic potash poured into the limbs .
When this tube was washed out , it was found that a plug 186 Capt. J. Waterhouse on [ Jan. 2Q of sulphate of potash and sand -fa inch thick had formed across the mML die of the bend .
Strong sulphuric acid and potash were again poured into the limbs , and were now only separated by a thin plug of sulphate of potash .
Platinum electrodes dipped into the liquids .
Electromotive force 139 .
The circuit was closed for ten minutes .
E. F. 14 seconds after insulation , 31 .
20 99 39 40 ft 44 1 minute 99 48 3 minutes 99 74 5 *9 89 10 99 98 20 99 105 65 99 119 The wires were again connected and the circuit left closed for about twenty-four hours .
It was found that the plug had extended for about half an inch on the side of the sulphuric acid by the formation of crystals of sulphate of potash , but had not apparently changed where it was in contact with the potash .
X. A similar plug was formed in a second tube .
Into one limb sulphuric acid , with a small quantity of permanganate of potash , was poured , into the other caustic potash : E. F. = 178 .
Circuit was closed for ten minutes .
E.F. 10 seconds after insulation , 90 40 : " 1 minute 3 minutes 9 \#187 ; 99 110 99 123 99 128 99 138 99 148 99 150 II .
*'On Reversed Photographs of the Solar Spectrum beyond the Red , obtained on a Collodion Plate , " in a Letter to Prof. Stokes .
By Captain J. Watekhouse , Assistant Surveyor-General of India .
Communicated by Professor Stokes .
Received November 29 , 1875 .
Surveyor-General 's Office , Calcutta , November 5 , 1875 .
: Mv deae Sib , \#151 ; I have the pleasure to send you , by Overland Parcel Post , for presentation to the Royal Society , two photographs on glass of the solar spectrum , showing the extreme red rays below A , obtained on a dry collodion plate prepared with bromide of silver stained with a blue

