Mr. J. Y. Buchanan Sea-water Ice .
1874 .
] XIV .
" Some Observations on Sea-water Ice .
" By J. Y. Buchanan , Chemist on Board H.M.S. f Challenger/ Communicated by Professor A. W. Williamson , For .
Sec. E.S. Received June 9 , 1874 .
Many different opinions have been expressed as to the nature of ice resulting from the freezing of sea-water , all agreeing , however , in one point , that , when melted , the water is unfit to drink .
During the antarctic cruise of H.M.S. 'Challenger ' I took an opportunity of examining some of the broken pack-ice , into which the ship made an excursion on the morning of the 25th of February , and also some ice which had formed over night in a bucket of sea-water left outside the laboratory port .
The piece of pack-ice which I examined was , in substance , clear , with many air-bells , most of them rather irregularly shaped .
Two portions of this ice were allowed to melt at the temperature of the laboratory , which ranged from 2 ' C. to 7 ' C. The melting thus took place very slowly , and made it possible to examine the water fractionally .
My experiments consisted in determining the chlorine in the water by means of tenth-normal nitrate-of-silver solution , and observing the temperature of the ice when melting .
A lump , which , when melted , was found to measure 625 cub. centims. , was allowed to melt gradually in a porcelain dish .
When about 100 cub. centims. had melted , 50 cub. centims. were taken for the determination of the chlorine ; they required 13-6 cub. centims. silver solution , corresponding to 0-0483 gramme chlorine .
When 560 cub. centims. had melted , 50 cub. centims. were titrated , and required 1*6 cub. centim. silver solution , corresponding to 0-0057 gramme chlorine .
The remainder ( 65 cub. centims. ) of the ice was then melted and 60 cub. centims. titrated ; they required 0'39 cub. centim. silver solution , corresponding to 0-0014 gramme chlorine .
We have then in the first 50 cub. centims. 0-0483 gramme chlorine , in the next 510 cub. centims. 0-0579 gramme , and in the last 65 cub. centims. 0-0015 gramme .
Hence the whole lump ( 625 cub. centims. ) contained 0-1077 gramme chlorine , or , on an average , 0-1723 gramme chlorine per litre- .
A qualitative analysis of the water showed lime , magnesia , and sulphuric acid to be present .
Another piece of the ice wras pounded and allowed to melt in a beaker .
When about half was melted , the water was poured off and found to measure 95 cub. centims. ; 75 cub. centims. were titrated with silver solution , and required 1-9 cub. centim. The remainder , when melted , measured 130 cub. centims. , and required 0*9 cub. centim. silver solution .
Hence the first fraction of 95 cub. centims. contained 0-0085 gramme chlorine , and the second of 130 cub. centims. 0-0032 gramme chlorine .
The whole quantity ( 225 cub. centims. ) of ice therefore contained 0'0117 gramme chlorine , or , on an average , 0-0520 gramme per litre .
432 Messrs. J. G. M'Kendrick J. Dewar on [ June 18 , From these results it is evident that the ice under examination was very far from being an homogeneous body ; and , indeed , nothing else could be expected , when it is borne in mind that the ice in question owes its existence , not only to the bond fide freezing of sea-water , but also to the snow which falls on its surface and is congealed into a compact mass by the salt-water spray freezing amongst it .
The ice formed by freezing sea-water in a bucket was found to have formed all round the bottom and sides of the bucket , and forming a pellicle on the surface , from which and from the sides and bottom the ice had formed in hexagonal planes , projecting edgewise into the water .
The water was poured off , the crystals collected , washed with distilled water , pressed between filtering-paper , and one portion melted .
It measured 9 cub. centims. , and required 4 cub. centims. silver solution , corresponding to 0*0142 gramme chlorine , or 1*5780 gramme per litre .
The other portion was used for determining the melting-point .
The thermometer used was one of Geissler 's normal ones , divided into tenths of a degree Centigrade , whose zero had been verified the day before in melting snow .
The melting-point of the ice-crystals was found to be \#151 ; 1'*3 .
The temperature of the melting mass was observed to remain constant for twenty minutes , after which no further observations were made .
In the same way the melting-point of the pack-ice was determined .
The fresh ice began to melt at \#151 ; 1 ' ; after twenty minutes the thermometer had risen to \#151 ; 0'*9 , and two hours and a half afterwards it stood at \#151 ; 0'*3 , having remained constant for about an hour at \#151 ; 0'*4 .
Another portion of the ice rose more rapidly ; and when three fourths of the ice was melted , the thermometer stood at 0 ' .
These determinations of the temperature of melting sea-water ice show that the salt is not contained in it only in the form of mechanically enclosed brine , but exists in the solid form , either as a single crystalline substance or as a mixture of ice- and salt-crystals .
Common salt , when separating from solutions at temperatures below 0 ' , crystallizes in hexagonal planes ; sea-water ice , therefore , may possibly have some analogy to the isomorphous mixtures occurring amongst minerals .
XV .
" On the Physiological Action of the Chinoline and Pyridine Basest By John G. M'Kendrick and James Dewar , Edinburgh .
Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , E.R.S. Received June 11 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) It is well known that quinine , cinchonine , or strychnine yield , when distilled with caustic potash , two homologous series of bases , named the pyridine and chinoline series .
Bases isomeric with these may also be

