XIII .
Contlnttation fa PEer on the Produsfion of Slgljt anK Heat from dlffierent Bodies .
By li/ lrv Thonas Wedg ; wood F sommunicatedf by Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. P. R. S. Read May lo , ot92 .
EXEPR IMENT IePa iN order to discover what effect the light of the burnilag fuel has upon incombustible bodies , I fixed itlto the elad of a tube of earthen ware X two equal cylinders of silver , with polislled surfaces , half an inch in length , and a quarter of an inch in l1* dlameter see 1 au .
V Eroln the cruciblej still looki2zg within it , I was surprised to see the appearance reversed , the polished cylinder contillui2lg to shfirle fc)r sg)me time after the blackeraed one had ceasede Cylinders of gold , and of iron , treated ia the same manner gave the same general result ; but the differences between the polished and the blacketled ones were not S\#163 ; ) remarliable ill fthese , as ill the silver .
XI repeated tlnis experituent many times , and found , by ob -servations with a stop-X^vatcla ) that the blackerled silvel cylinder began to shine , at a medium , in two-thirds of the time which the polisl:led one required ; and that , after -its removal from the crucible , it contilaued to slain only two-thirds of the time that the other did .
For this latter obsservation , I was obliged to make a little variation in the apparatus ; the tube itself becoming frequetltly so hot , as to make the cylinders continue longer red thatz they otherwise nZould have done : I therefUre took them out of the tube , to susperld them by afine wirea and then heating them in the ignitedXcrucible as equally as possible ( for they cannot be made to exhibit to the eye the sameprecise tiloge of redness ) , I removed them immediately into a dark place .
From this experiment it wo^uld seem , that a great part of the light emitted by the cyliilders was absorbed from the red hot crucible , as the blacketled one , which absorbs most rays , not only became first red , lDut likew ise shone brightest .
The following experiment howevern affe3rds a different conclusiolz .
EXPER I MEANT I I. At1 earthen ware pipe , of a zig-zag fortn ( Fig. 2 .
) , was placed ita a crucible , thich ssas filled up itll sand , the two open ends of the p-ipe being left uncovered ; one of them sras of a propex form Xr receivilzg the nozzle of a pair ofs hellouts , the other bent ; inLto a]gles of the form of the letter Z : on thinlast was fa-Stened a globular vessel A , with a lateral bent pipeg to let otlt air but exclude all external lightn and with a rleck im which svasinserted a circtllar plate of glass .
The crucib}eE &gt; ith the sand and : the part of the pipe contailled itl it , vtas then heated to redness .
Having fmy eye fixed in the neck of the vessel A , and observing it perfectly dark withill , I directect an assistant to blow witIz the bellosas- .
The strearn of air , sealt through the redhot tube , laot being at all lulminous , I -fixe(l a small strip of golel into the orifice of the ttlbe at 1S , which , aftera:wo or three blasts , became faintly red ; thus proving , that the aira though not luminous , was equal in temperature to what is usually caslled red heatj l then heated the crucible to a brig ; h- ; \#163 ; er redlless : the stream of airy blown through the bright red hot tube , still came out psfectly dark , lbut the strip of gold , exposed to it , shone beoth sooner and brighter than beforea Hxence it app\#163 ; ars7 &lt; that the greater brightness of the blackenedE cylindery in the first experiment , was owing to its being of a higher temperature ; and that it rould have been equally bright had it been ra}sedto the sam-etemperaturwe by any other means th-all the absorption of light ; the metal Wing here brought to a fai-nt , and to a bright ignition , without the access of anyvisible light .
- : But perhaps another consequence may be fairly drawn from this experiment .
As the gold may be made to etnit light for any length of time9 by being supplied with heat from the durk xs of the temperature of red heat , neither the gold NQR the air suSering any chemical thange whatever , is hdt the light emitted identical with the be-t receizoed ?
This identity appears to be confirmed by the following observation that if the solar rays be made to converge upon one end of hlackenedX cylitlder of-metal the other parts will become red hot , and enzit light ; o-r , if the rays be converged upon the tube blackerzed3 and air passed through it the gold placecI in the dark current will yield a constant light .
The simultaneous absoieption and emission of lig ; hty itl a red hot body is a subject of very difficult and abstruse investigation , as it inv-olves the nature of the constitllent parts of matter , and of their relative CtiOllS and arrangements .
I shall not attempt to offer any hypothesis for explaining the various phenomenon , as I have not b : even able to form one at all satisfictory to mysel-f , but shall proceecI to state a few miscellaneous experiments and observations ^hich , though apparently unconnectedn may yet be of some assistance to the speculationE of some abler theorist .
EXPERI-MENT IItA quart of oil was poured into a bright tin vessel , which had a FAHRENHVIT)S therlnDm.eter fixed in its neck .
The mercury standing at 4 , ' , the vessel was plunged into boiling watery anclthe time which elapsed before the mercury rose to &lt; 80 ' was-exac-tly noteel .
I then hlackened the exterior surfice of the tin vessel , an19 repeating the experiment , fout ; ldf the thermometer to require exactly the satnetime as beforeX to rise to the same d:egree .
From the foregoing experiment it appears &gt; ?
that bluk matteE has no particular attraction to light itl a quzessent state9 that isJ when combined , as heat , with other matter .
EXPERIMENT IV-e Three equal cylinders of glazed earthen Ntare snere &lt; fixed ill the end of a tube ( like the two silver otles in Fig. 1 .
) ; one of -them blackened ; another gilt , all but the ends mJitlnin tise tube ; and the third with its glassy surface .
These , e , treated in the same manner as the silver cylinders , in the first experiment all became red at the same time .
Without taking them out of the tule , I removed the whole from the fire , and , still keepng my eye upon their en-ds , observed them all to:disappear to gether .
To @-CC-OUllt for the simultaneous ignition of tl-oese three cylinders , it must be considered , that eartllen svare being a very slow conductor of heat the stlrfaces of all of them are , pt^obablys heated to redness some time before any such appearazace talres place in the ends within the tube .
Now it is not utllikely } that the lolack matter , the gold , and the glaze , when red hot , may reflect light equally ; anidX in that case , there should be no perceptible differellee in the time of igllition of the ends within the tube , except the little advantage gained by the blaszkeiled cone before its black coat becotnes red hot , which is partly counterbalaaced by the powdery matter ( of wizich the cout consists ) obstructing the transmission of heat .
rrhe surfaces of the silver cylinders ( experiment I. ) on the cotltrary , do not become red ; any sensible time before the ends within the tube , the metal conducting the heat rapidly through its whole mass .
A11 eartherl ware cylitlders fastened ill the etld of an earthen ware tube , along with a goId otze , sald plunged into melted glass is much longer in heating than the gold one .
This is easily explained , upon a well known principle , namely that in two bodies of unequal temperature , the colder body conducts the heat from the hotter at a rate direfctly proportionate to their diSerence of temperaturet Ntow the surface of the eartlae &lt; vare cylinder , as the heat is collducted very slowly from it by the iIlterior xuassn soon beconzes very nearly of the temperature of the hot glass contiguolls to it .
tlnhe surfice of the gold cylinder , on the colltrary , havlng its heat conducted from it much faster by the interior masss is of consequence disposed to receive the heat with greater rapiditJrO E XPER I MEN T Y. iqual pieces of gold , silver copper , and irollj blacliened all : ovel , and suspended by a uZire in a red hot crtlciblen became red in the order in which they are here set do-wll ; and ; whenmade equally red , and relnoved into the dark , they : disap peared in the same order .
When just brotlght Qt Qf the fires they all looked equally red ; but xvhen they had cooled a littleS the iron was much the bzrightest .
Anzearthen ware cylinder , tried with l ; Ile metals , disappeared lnuch3soonerthan any of them the il-lterior part llOt com municating its heat quick ellouigh to lieep the surfaceof the temperature of red heat : acGor2alaglyX when brolien , twhougl } the surEace gave no light , the mass was lumirlous interxlally .
From a parity of reasoning , a giIt earthen ware cylinder\#171 ; suspellcled in a red hot crucible along with a gold ones svotlld probably become red on the surfacq before the gold jQe EXPERIMENT v I. A tube of unglazed-earthen rare open at top , and having one half of its bottom blackened on the outside , was placed ill a red hot srtlcible and the eye directed , as before , to the in side : the part wheh-was externally blackened became always red before the other .
-The experi-ment ^ras repeated wiith a metalline tube ; but -lao -difference could here be perceive(l between the blackened and unblacliened half of the bottom The reason is obviouss from the foregoirxg observationse EXPERIMENT VIt .
To ascertain whetl1er metals and earthy bodies begin to shine at the same tenlperature , I gilded , in lines rul1ning across , a thin piece of earthen ware , of the specific gravity of ahout -2,0O0 , and luted it to the end of a tabe , the gilt side being inwards ; then , directing my eye into the tubeX I held it ; within a crucibleg which was gradually lBacie red hot ; but I could rlota after many trials perceisre that either the gold or the earthen ware began to shitle first As it appears from this experimerut , that gold and earth ware begin to shine at the same temperature ; and ts no two Nbodies can well k more different , in all their sensible proper -ties , may it not be inferred , -that almost all bodies begin to s ; hine at the same temperature ?
EXPERIMENT vI II .
Observing that colourless transparent glass had a paler hue , hen red hot than most-other bodies , I\#163 ; onceived that it might not be luminous at so low a temperature .
I therefore took a circular pitat-of glass , about 4Io of an inch thicks and having gilt one side of it , exposed the ungilt side to a stream of air passed through a red hot tube : ; but did not perceive that the gold shone at all before the glass .
T*his e:xperiment , howw ever , is not decisive ; glass heing so slow a conductor of heats that its exterior surface naight have been heated some time before the interior , and thus have deceived the eye .
I could not meet with ally glass sufficiently thin for this purpose , nor thirlk of any other possible mode of trial .
-EXPERIMENT IX .
Having often remark-ed , that the surfaces of re(l hot metals had an appearance diierent from what they prese-nt by reflected light wwhen cold , I had an idea that this peculiar appearance might be derived from a transmissic)n of the light through the superficial parts of the ignited body .
To ascertain whether they acquired any degree of transparency by lueat , I fixed a circular plate of firae gold , albcout 6I0 of an inch thick , on the end of a tube , which was perfectly closed by it ; then , having heated it to redrless , and looking down into the tube , I pressed the outer surface of the gold against single grains of gunpowder : the red light of the gold looked whiter ola every flash .
To be satisfied that no light found admission through the sitles of the tube ( which were of thick earthen ware ) , I covered the exterior surface of the gold plate with a thicli coat of clay luting , and again making it red hot , fired gunposn7der with it as before , hut no increase of light was zNow perceptible from the flash ; N7hich proves , that the sides of the tube were impervious to the light When this gold was cold , I stucl a few grains of gunpowder upon its surEace , and looking withila tTze tube , fired them by pressing them against a hot iront but the light of the explosiotls was llot then sensible .
Plates of silver , and of iron gave the same results .
EXPER IMENT X. A lump of the most lum-inous rllarble and all equal lulnp of the same marble blackened over ) were placed together UpOll a mass of iron heated jtlst under redness : the formel gave out much lig ; ht , the latter none Upon a second expostlre , the lump not blackened gave a faint light ; the blackened cne , as before , none at all .
Then wipin ; of the black and placing them together upon the-heater , I found the one which had been blackened to emit as little light as the other : thus the phosphorescent property was nearly destroyed , without any visible light leaving the body .
EXPERIMENT S1 .
If a piece of glass , ol glazed or unglazed eartherl ware with ally enamel , pairlting , gilding , or writing in ink upon it , be made red hot ; , the coloured parts appear considerably more red than the others , andL continue longer visible .
Iron wire , withill a red hot glass tube , looks much more red than the glass .
Black uatter , upon a large polished lmass of fine gold , did not remain any longer red than the gold EXPERIMENT XIIo A bit of iron wire becozues visibly red hot when immersed in melted glass .
Aii , therefore , is not necessary to the sllilling of ignited bodies EXPERI MEANT XI I I. A piece of red hot metal contitlues to shine for some time after its removal fironl the fire ; which proves , that constant accessions of light or heat are not necessary to the slling vf ignited bodXes .
If the piec b &gt; strollgly blown uToll it installtly waws to shine ; for the cold air , contitwually applied , unites with the light as Ast as it leaves the body , altd which otherwtise would have passed l ; o the eye .
I. shall llOW close this paper with two or three miscellaneous observations .
Z. .
Red hot bodies , though igllited by a1bite light , give out only the red .
rays .
Perhaps the other more rzCfrangible rays , from their greater attraction to matter , may be circulating as heat,. .
whilst the red ones , having a less attraction,.yield sooner to that force which propels the light of red hot bodies .
If the interlsity of the intident white light be much increased , so as to raise the body to a white heat , the more rSefrangible rays then come out with the others , constituting together a white light .
* The flash of a graill of gunpowder is a purewbite light : but if the explosion i made within a thin , ullglazed ) earthen ware tube , close .
at both ends , all the light that pervadesthe sides of the tube is red : the other rays must therefbrej remain united with the matter of the tube } whilst the less attractive red ones are transmitted. .
Thus also , otl looking at the SUI1 through the thin bottom of an earthen ware tea-cup , only the red rays are transmitted .
, so that the others must be retained by the matter of the cup .
It would perhaps be worth trying , wheths a body can be made red hot by concentrated rays of other colours .
The light produced from bodies by attrition conssts of a dotlble light ; that which their powder wou]d give out on the heater under redness ; and that sshich partiGles in their surfaces give out by being made red hot .
The sudden heating of a body to redness , by a single rub or blow , is a remarkable phlomenon , and deserves to be investigated .
One eiect produced upon ] a body by attrition , is a compression or con densation of the parts in its surface ; and it appears from general observation , that a condensation of the parts occasions a diminution of its capacity for heat .
Iron may be made red hot by repeated blows of a hammer ; and I have found , that if red hot iron be forcibly struck by a hea+7y hamtrlerg with a sharp edge to concentrate theX action , the part so struck elnits a white light for a sellsible time , and is probaluly raised to a white heat : also , that my father 's thermometer clay has its capacity for heat diminished one-third , by being burllt to 120 ' of his scale , and thus reduced to about one-half of its bulk ; and as it-loses in weight little more than two graitls on a pound , the ditninution of capacity can only be attributed to its conlensation .
Many other allalagous illstances might be adduced if necessary ; $ but t]aese will , perhaps , be cleemed sufficient tc ) render it probable , that the sudden ignition of the particles by attrition proceeds from the compressioz , and consequent climinution of the capacity for heat .
I am not certain that the increase of brlghtaess in the gold plate , experiment IX .
lBUSt be attributed to its transparency : it may arise from the gold beilzg sudclenly heated to a white heat by the light of the explosion ; or the force of the explosior * See Dr. DA RWI N RS excellent paper of Frigorific Experiments on the mechanical Expansin3n of Air , &amp;c. Phil. Transs Volj LXVIII .
p. +3 .
may condense its partsiand ditninish its capacity for heatfor light .
l'here isf however , a strong analogical argument for the traspazency of the golel : evWry body whatever , whel ] extremely thin , is pervious to light in such quantity as to be perceptible to our eye-sight : thus gold , perhaps the lBOSt opake of all bodies , platina excepted , when beatetl into leaf gold , is so pervious to the green rays , tlaatif held close to the eye , all objects are seela through it wMitll considerable distirlctness , appeariIlg of a deepish green hue .
Now the particles of natter in the gold pIate being much separated from one another , if not more regu]arly arranged , by the heat ; and the intensity of the light iil the explosion of the grains of gunponvder being so great ; it is not improbable that some few rays may be transrnitted through the gold .
After some reflection upon the curious result of experiment I ) I am inclined to thirzk , that the blackened cylinder does not begin to shine at so low a telllperature as the polished one ; and , consequently , that the cornmencement of ignition is nots in all cases , a certain indication of a particular temperature .
For , when the two cylinders snTere removed from the ignited cru W cible ( see Fig. .
) the blaclrened one looked of a brighter red than the polished ) and yet , in the course of cooling , disappeared in about tuo-thirds of the time that the polished one continued to siline , without any apparent reason for its cooling at a faster rate .
Should it not , therefbre , seem that it requires a greater heat to make it shine ?
I am well aware that these appearances may be diSerently explailled ; and , to determine this point I would propose the followting experiment .
Put larger cyliladers into the tube ; and , having made them red hot drop them separately each at the instant of its disappearing , intoe cups of wreighed waters of the temperature of between g11 and 2 12 ' of FAHRENHEIT : thez as any addition of heat will expand the water into steam , the loss of weight of each vessel will give at1 exact measure of the heat of the cylinders at the time of immersione

