December 14 , 1848 .
Sir R. -I .
INGLIS , Bart. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Chairman announced that the Earl of Rosse had nominated as Vice-Presidents-The Marquis of Northampton , The Dean of Westminster , George Rennie , Esq. , G. B. Airy , Esq. , W. R. Grove , Esq. , Sir R. H. Inglis , Bart. His Grace The Archbishop of Canterbury was elected into the Society .
The following paper was read : " On the effect of surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition .
" By W. R. Grove , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. The author refers to some experiments of his published in the Philosophical Magazine for December 1845 , and in the Bakerian Lecture for 1847 , relating to the difference of ignition generated in a platinum wire heated by the voltaic current , when the wire is immersed in atmospheres of different gases .
In the present paper these experiments are continued , the current being passed through two platinum wires both in the same voltaic circuit , but immersed in atmospheres of different gases .
It appears from these experiments that the heat generated in the wire is less in hydrogen and its compounds than in other gases ; and that when the wires and their atmospheres of gas are immersed in given quantities of water , the water surrounding the hydrogenous gases is less heated than that surrounding those which contain no hydrogen .
Similar experiments , in which the wires are immersed in different liquids , are then given ; the heat developed appears not to depend on the specific heat of either the gases or the liquids .
The two series of experiments are brought into relation by one wire being immersed in hydrogen and the other in water , by which it appears that the cooling effect of the hydrogen nearly equals that of water .
Further experiments are then given , in order to ascertain , if possible , to what chemical or physical peculiarity these cooling effects are due ; and from them it appears that they are not due to the specific gravity , specific heat , or to any conducting power of the gases for electricity ; and that they do not follow the same law as that by which gases escape from minute apertures .
They apparently depend upon some molecular character of the gases , by which either the interchange of hot and cold particles is facilitated , or a superficial action takes place , the surface of the hydrogenous gases presenting a more ready escape to the heat , similarly to that which has been long observed with regard to the different molecular constitutions of solid bodies , such for instance as the more rapid radiation or absorption of heat by black than by white surfaces , in the present case the epipolic action being dependent on the surface of the aeriform medium , and not on that of the solid substances .

