XVIII .
" On an Easy Method of measuring approximately the Intensity of Total Daylight .
" By ROGER J. WRIGHT , Esq. Comilunicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received May 21 , 1868 .
AN easy method by which the amount of light may be at any time measured and registered appears to be still wanting .
I would suggest the following plan , by which I believe the desired object may be attained .
AB is a rod of solid metal , terminated by a heavy base , which keeps the rod in a perpendicular position .
CD is a hollow tube , blackened inside , of such a diameter as exactly to fit and slide over A B. The extremity , B , of the rod AB is painted of a snowy white , with a jet-black spot in the centre , as shown in the figure .
On AB is marked the scale , beginning with zero at A. The tube is pushed over the rod till the extremity C coincides with the zero line at A. 100 3 00j ^d 'iI 40 i The method of using this instrument is as follows:--Draw the tube gently up the rod , at the same time looking steadily at the black spot before mentioned .
It will be found , as the tube ascends , that the black spot will gradually disappear , and ultimately vanish in the gloom ; it will also be found that on different days , and different hours of the same day , the point at which the black spot vanishes will vary with the intensity of the light .
This point is read off on the graduated scale , and thus we are enabled to measure the intensity of the light at any required time .
In taking an observation , it would be well to state whether that portion of sky round the zenith from which the cone of rays proceeds be clear or cloudy .
It will be seen that the result obtained by this method is not scientifically correct , as it will be affected by the eyesight of the person who makes the observation , but only in a slight degree .
The method of measuring light , as just described , has been known to me for upwards of three years .
The hope that I should some day be enabled to make the instrument scientifically correct has hitherto prevented me from making it public .
As I understand that it is highly desirable to have some means of estimating the changes in the light which will occur during the total eclipse of the sun in August next , I no longer feel justified in keeping in the background an instrument which may possibly be of some slight assistance .

