80 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On Evidences of a [ Mar. 9 , Startin ( J. ) A Pharmacopoeia for Diseases of the Skin .
Third Edition .
12mo .
London 1892 .
The Author .
Uslar ( Baron P. K. ) Ethnography of the Caucasus .
Linguistics .
Yol .
Y. Khyur-Kilinskii Language .
[ Russian .
' ] 8vo .
Tiflis 1892 .
Le Curateur de l'Arrondissement Scolaire du Caucase .
Weber ( W. ) Werke .
Band III .
Theil 1 .
8vo .
Berlin 1893 .
Konigl .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen .
Woodward ( H. ) , E.R.S. Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. 8vo .
London 1893 .
The Author .
March 9 , 1893 .
Sir JOHN EYANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Yice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor Dewar made an oral statement to the effect that he had succeeded in freezing liquefied atmospheric air into a clear transparent solid .
Whether this solid is a jelly of solid nitrogen containing liquid oxygen , or a true ice of liquid air , in which both oxygen and nitrogen exist in the solid form , was , however , stated to be a question for further research .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Evidences of a Submergence of Western Europe and of the Mediterranean Coasts at the close of the Glacial or so-called Post-Glacial Period , and immediately preceding the Neolithic or Recent Period .
By Joseph Prestwich , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , Corr. Inst , h ranee , \amp ; c. Received December 15 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) In a communication made early this year ( 1892 ) to the Geological Society , the author showed that in the South of England , besides the superficial drift deposits of river , sea , and glacial origin , there was yet another which could not be referred to any of these agencies , and which he was led to conclude was the result of a submergence of not less than 1000 feet at the close of the so-called Post-Glacial Period .
This drift , unlike the others , does not contain either fluviatile or Submergence of Western , SfC .
1893 .
] marine remains , nor does it exhibit any traces of glacial action .
Its component materials are always derived from the adjacent hills , and none from a distance , so that they have undergone little or no wear , whilst the only organic remains are those only of land animals and of land shells .
While possessing these characters in common , this drift , to which the author gives the general term of " Rubble-drift , " assumes a variety of forms or phases .
Another peculiarity of this drift is that it is dispersed from many centres in a manner such as would result , on the hypothesis of the late Mr. W. Hopkins , of Cambridge , from divergent currents , if a considerable area at the bottom of the sea were elevated at a given rate , and under certain depths of water .
Some forms of this drift , especially the one overlying the Raised Beaches of the Channel , have long attracted attention .
The origin of that unstratified rubble has been attributed to , 1st , an excessive rainfall and great cold ; 2nd , snow and ice slides on slopes ; 3rd , waves of translation ; 4th , flood and fluviatile action during a period of great cold .
The author has already stated the objections that occur to him to these several explanations , some of which no doubt meet certain of the required conditions , but none of them embrace the whole , and they all involve consequences incompatible with the other phenomena .
They all also depend on agencies that involve an amount of friction and weathering which is conspicuously wanting in the Rubble-drift .
There is the further objection that this drift often exhibits results due to a force of propulsion for which the suggested causes are manifestly inadequate .
The object of this memoir is to show that there is evidence of drift beds having the same origin extending over Western Europe and the coasts of the Mediterranean .
In generalising phenomena so widely spread , the author has to depend to a great extent on other observations than his own .
Owing to their number , only the more prominent cases have been selected , and only such particulars can be given as will serve to prove that , howsoever they may differ in detail , they all point to a common cause and agree in showing that all are explicable on the hypothesis proposed by the author , namely , of the submergence of the land concurrent with a subsequent upheaval .
France.\#151 ; On the coast at Sangatte , near Cape Blanc-Nez , the Rubble-drift , which assumes the form termed " head " by Sir H. de la Beche , overlies a raised beach , the section being in almost every respect identical with that at Brighton .
The rubble is derived from the adjacent Chalk and Pliocene strata , and has , as at Brighton , the appearance of having been shot over the old cliff in lenticular masses \#151 ; the most massive and prolonged being the one projected on the top .
This rubble contains the remains of Mammoth and some entire land shells .
Near Abbeville , a very similar drift about 40 feet thick follows the slope of the hill , but here it forms four divisions corresponding VOL. Lin .
G 82 .
Prof. J. Prestwich .
On the Evidences of a [ Mar. 9 , with the main movements of upheaval .
The last is remarkable from the- circumstance that the edges of the beds are turned over and reversed in the same way that the .
" head " over the raised beach at Portland is reversed .
Passing on to the Channel Islands , a Raised Beach surmounted by a " head " surrounds both Jersey and Guernsey , showing that in the later glacial times , as now , those islands were separated from the mainland .
As the materials of the " head " \#151 ; which is not a mere talus\#151 ; are all of local origin , they must have been carried down by an agent acting in a quaquavers\amp ; l direction from the centre of the islands , where the hills form plateaux 300 to 400 feet high ; often covered by loam or loess .
As there are no rivers to have originated the required flood waters , this loess cannot have had a fluviatile origin , nor , as there are no higher grounds , could it be the result of rain-wash , neither can it be the result of the disintegration of the surface rocks .
It must therefore have had an origin different from that usually ascribed to the loess , and which the author attributes to the deposition of sediment from the turbid sea-waters during submergence , whilst the " head " results from the surface debris together with a portion of this previously deposited sediment , swept off by divergent currents during upheaval .
The Loess.\#151 ; After further reference to the phenomena on the west coast of Prance , the author resumes the question which has given rise to much controversy , namely , that of the origin of the loess , which extends over such large tracts in Western and Central Europe .
That a certain section of it within valleys is due to river floods , there can be no doubt , but there is another section , recognised as such by most Continental geologists , to which it is not possible to assign that origin .
The latter is not confined to the river valleys , but is found on the dividing water-sheds and on the high plains separating the river basins .
In the North of France it attains a height of 400 to 600 feet , but in the neighbourhood of Lyons it reaches to 1300 feet , whilst in the great upper valleys of the Rhine and Danube it attains to an altitude of 1500 feet , which is even exceeded further to the east .
It there covers the high plains of Hungary and Southern Russia , and is by no means restricted to valleys and depressions on the surface .
Various theories have been proposed to account for this wide dispersion of the loess , the two principal of which attribute its formation :\#151 ; 1 , to a depression of Central Europe whereby the gradient of the upper valleys was greatly reduced , while no change of level occurred nearer the sea ; 2 , to the advance of the great northern ice sheet , blocking the large rivers of Eastern Europe , and damming back their waters ; 3 , to storm-winds acting upon disintegrated rock-surfaces .
The author points out the objections to these several views , and shows that such an accumulation of silt would 1893 .
] Submergence of Western , necessarily be one of the consequences of the submergence he suggests __that it is such a sedimentation as would fall from the turbid waters as they slowly advanced or rested , whilst [ as they retreated those portions of this sediment most exposed to the effluent currents would be again swept away .
As with the other phases of the rubble-drift , the organic remains of this loess are those of a land surface only .
In the South of France and inland , the author refers the Ossiferous breccias of Nice , Antibes , Cette , Pedemar , and Santenay to one phase of the Rubble- drift .
At all these places , the breccia , which contains the remains of the Mammoth , Woolly Rhinoceros , and other Quaternary animals , occurs in fissures on isolated hills .
In explanation of their presence , it has been suggested that the bones are those of animals which fell into the fissures while still open , or else that they were remains brought together by predaceous animals .
But neither of these opinions can be correct , for no skeleton is found entire , no bones in place , and none of the bones have been gnawed by Carnivora .
As Monsieur Graudry also asks in discussing the facts presented by the fissure on the ''Montague de Santenay " \#151 ; a flat-topped hill near .Chalons-sur-Sa6ne\#151 ; " Why should so many Wolves , Bears , Horses , and Oxen have ascended a hill isolated on all sides ?
" The members of the Geological Society present at the reunion at which this remark was made seemed to agree that the animals had met their death by drowning , but in what way was left indeterminate .
Now in all these cases the fissures are in isolated hills with lower lands around .
At Nice the hill is 132 feet high , at Antibes , 250 feet , and at Cette , which resembles on a small scale the rock of Gibraltar , the hill rises 355 feet above the sea-level .
Still more formidable are the hills inland .
Mont Pedemar rises to a height of 1128 feet , whilst Santenay is 1640 feet high .
Among the animal remains found in the fissures are those of\#151 ; '-Felis Lynx 5 Carnivores Wolf 2 Rodents .{ Hyaena Bear Lagomys Hare 4 Ungulates 3 Ruminants r Mammoth J Rhinoceros | Wild Boar L Horse rOx \lt ; Deer L Antelope together with land shells of various living species .
The breccia , which is composed of sharp angular fragments of the local rocks imbedded in a matrix of red clay or loam , is generally cemented by calcite .
The bones are mostly broken and splintered into innumerable sharp fragments , and evidently are not those of animals devoured by beasts of prey ; nor have they been broken by man .
It is not pos84 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On Evidences of a [ Mar. 9 , sible to suppose that animals of such different natures , and having* such different habitats , could in life ever have herded together .
Difficult as the alternative is , the author sees no other explanation of the phenomena than that of a wide-spread temporary submergence , accompanied by strong earth tremors .
In such a case it is easy to conceive that as the waters gradually advanced over the low lands , the animals of the plains would naturally seek safety on the higher grounds and hills .
Plying in terror , and cowed by the common danger , the Ruminants and other Herbivores , together with the Carnivores , would , as in the case of the flooding in our days of large deltas , alike seek refuge on the same safety spot .
Where that spot was an isolated hill , they would , if it were not out of reach of the flood waters , eventually suffer the same fate .
Subsequently the detached limbs and bones , carried , together with the surface debris , by the effluent currents into the open fissures , were subjected to the clashing of the rubble and the fall of large fragments of rock from the sides of the fissures , and were crushed and broken in the way they are always found .
All the results noted are in accordance with the consequences that would ensue under these conditions .
The author then describes how that portion of the Rubble-drift , which was not caught in fissures or hollows , was swept down the sides of the hills during upheaval of the land .
Amongst the most illustrative instances of these , is that on the slopes of Mont Genay , near Semur .
This hill , which is 1430 feet high , is capped by a characteristic Oolitic bed , and it is the debris carried down from this bed that forms on the slopes a breccia containing similar remains to those of the fissures at Santenay , together with land shells and flint flakes of human manufacture .
Another such mass was cut through by the railway to the east of Mentone , where the base of the limestone cliffs , in which are situated the noted Mentone bone-caves , are covered by a breccia in which were found the remains of Hycena , Cave Bear and other animals , together with flints worked by Man .
Belgium.\#151 ; The author recognises the Rubble-drift in the angular debris termed by M. Dupont " argile a blocaux " which partly masks , as with the Gower caves , some of the celebrated bone-caves near Dinant .
It forms a thin layer between the cave deposits and a deposit of the Stone Age , thus defining clearly its geological position .
It contains , when fronting the caves , the remains of Reindeer , Ox , Horse , \amp ; c. , which has led to its being classed with the cave deposits , but the author thinks that those remains have been derived from the beds which it overlies and has partly denuded .
^ Gibraltar.\#151 ; The Atlantic waves have left few traces of raised beaches and " head " on the western coasts of Spain and Portugal , but on the Rock of Gibraltar there are traces of several raised beaches , covered in places by local angular rubble ( or head ) .
This rubble extends 1893 .
] Submergence of Western 85 over the lower slopes of the Rock on both sides .
On the western side it attains a thickness of 100 feet , and is projected 550 yards seaward at an angle of 9 ' .
It is clearly not a tains , nor is it a cone of dejection .
Sir Andrew Ramsay and Professor James Geikie referred its origin to two periods of severe cold and snow slides .
The objection to this is the great volume of the detritus , the size of some of the blocks ( some being 12 feet in diameter ) , and the distance to which it is projected compared to the very limited snow-collecting surface , 1400 feet in height , and the small angle of slope .
The-remarkable Ossiferous Fissures of Gibraltar , which are placed by the authors between the two agglomerates or breccia\#151 ; referred by them to different periods\#151 ; contain remains of three species of Felis , of Bear , Rhinoceros , Wild Boar , Ibex , Ox , Horse , Deer , .
The bones are , as usual , much broken and splintered , and none belonged to one entire skeleton .
A human molar and some worked flint flakes were also found .
It has been suggested that the remains are those of animals that had lived and died on the Rock , and were afterwards washed into the fissures by heavy rains .
But this is difficult to conceive , and besides , there is the same incompatibility in the habits and resorts of the animals thus associated as in the other fissures before mentioned .
The Hycence , Felidae , and Bears might have frequented the dens and crags of the Rock , but the Deer , Bovidce , Horse , and others could only have lived in the surrounding plains , and it has not been suggested that they were carried there by the Carnivora .
A great and common danger .alone could have driven together the animals of the plains and of the crags and caves .
As the Rock was upheaved the divergent ^currents swept down on both sides of the Rock the dehris of the limestone , disintegrated by the previous long glacial cold , together with the scattered animal remains ; and that the propelling force was great , and , consequently , the rise rapid , is shown by the distance to which the breccia extends from the base of the Rock .
The scale is different , and the materials are different , but in all essential respects the phenomena are analogous to those presented by the " head at Brighton and at Sangatte .
There is the same restriction to local debris with blocks , the same absence of wear , the same traces of rude bedding , and the same occasional presence of Mammalian remains .
All this points to a common origin .
Sicily.\#151 ; Traces of similar phenomena are shown to exist in Sardinia , Corsica , Italy , and thfc coast of Dalmatia .
The remarkable caves of Sicily next arrest attention from the extraordinary quantity of bones of Hippopotami ( belonging to hundreds of individuals ) which were found in connexion with them .
Twenty tons of these bones were shipped from the cave of San Ciro , near Palermo , within the first six months of working , and they were so fresh that they were sent to 86 Prof. J. Preetwich .
On the Evidences of a [ Mar. 9r Marseilles " for use in the sugar factories .
" How could this hone ' breccia have been accumulated ?
Ho predaceous animals could have brought together such a collection , and , though Hycence lived at the time , they have left no traces of their presence , nor marks of their teeth , in this wonderful mass of bones .
These have been classed with the contents of bone caves , but the author shows that there are objections to this .
The only other suggestion made is that the bones are those of successive generations of Hippopotami which went there to die .
But this is not the habit of the animal , and , besides , the bones are those of animals of all ages down to the foetus , nor do the bones show any traces of weathering or of variable exposure .
The author suggests an explanation founded on the local topographical features .
The plain of Palermo is encircled by an amphitheatre of hills rising to the height of 2000 to 3000 feet , and presenting mural precipices towards the plain .
The caves are situated near the base of this escarpment , and at San Ciro the breccia not only faces the cave , but extends to some distance in front and on either .
When , therefore , the island was submerged , the animals in the plain of Palermo would naturally retreat , as the waters advanced , deeper into the amphitheatre of hills until they found themselves embayed as in a seine , with promontories running out to sea on either side , and a mural precipice in front .
As the area became more circumscribed the animals must have thronged together in vast multitudes , crushing into the more accessible caves , and swarming over the ground at their entrance , until overtaken by the waters and destroyed .
A few of the more agile animals may have escaped , for though the remains of Deer , Ox , Bear , and Felidae occur , they are exceedingly scarce -r but the unwieldy Hippopotami perished in hundreds .
As the land afterwards emerged by intermittent stages , first the rocky and finally large blocks from the sides of the hills were hurled down , crushing and smashing the bones , which are , with few exceptions , broken into thousands of fragments .
The author accounts for the numbers of Hippopotami by the fact that after the formation of the Raised Beaches there was , as he has previously shown , a considerable elevation of the coast , which , no doubt , led , as in more western Europe , to a large increase of the land area : so that the plain of Palermo may then have been of great extent .
Malta.\#151 ; The drift deposits of Malta present on the whole the same general features as those of Sicily , but , owing to its peculiar population of dwarf Elephants with the small Hippopotamus , and the absence of other larger Quaternary Mammalia , the faunal remains have a distinct local colouring .
They indicate that , like the Channel Islands , Malta had been long isolated before the spread of the Rubble-drift ; but , nevertheless , it is evident that it did not escape the catastrophe which affected the adjacent lands .
On the south side of 1893 .
] Submergence of Western Europe , fie .
87 the island escarped rocks rise abruptly to the height of 200 to 300 feet .
The lower part of these slopes is covered by a consolidated red breccia consisting of angular fragments of the local rocks , mixed with the red earth which covers the hill tops , and containing in places remains of the pigmy Elephant .
The author takes this breccia to be the representative of the head at Brighton and Sangatte , only that in this instance the height of the escarpment has prevented its being entirely swamped , as are the old cliffs at those places .
It resembles closely the breccia on the Mentone slopes .
It is probable that this island , no part of which exceeds a height of 800 feet , was entirely submerged , for not a single species nor even one genus of its Quaternary Mammalia are now found living on the island , nor did any of its peculiar* forms pass to the adjacent lands .
Greece._The surface deposits of Turkey and Southern Russia are , seemingly , in general accordance with the views here expressed .
The rubble beds are , however , better developed in Greece , and are there associated with an osseous breccia .
This angular rubble forms great sheets extending to the shore , where they are worn back , and form cliffs 30 to 40 feet high , whilst the present torrents cut through and carry down this drift , spreading it out on the coast in the form of cones of dejection , which often becomes re-cemented like the older breccia .
On the adjacent island of Cerigo ossiferous fissures , said to contain human remains , occur on the summit of an isolated flat-topped hill .
In Crete there are , in places , immense accumulations of angular detritus , and at one spot a Raised Beach is overlaid by a calcareous breccia analogous to the head of the coasts of the Channel .
In the island of Rhodes is a breccia which is said not to be distinguishable from that of Greece .
Asia Minor.\#151 ; M. de Tchihatchieff says that Quaternary deposits are much less common in Asia Minor than in Europe , and that there are detrital deposits of local origin on the slopes of the hills which may be Quaternary or modern , and remarks on the absence of organic remains in these superficial drifts .
A raised beach , 5 to 30 feet above present sea level , surrounds Cyprus , but it does not appear to be accompanied by a head , though a sandy bed , " like loess , " overlies it in places .
Nor is there any record of ossiferous breccia or fissures .
This may be owing to the submergence here having been small .
On the coast of Palestine raised beaches range up to the height of 220 feet , but the author cannot find any record of an overlying rubble or head .
Traces of a bone-breccia of uncertain relations have , however , been found near Beyrout , and detrital deposits are alluded to ; but the only bone cave described appears to be of Neolithic Age .
No ossiferous fissures nor remains of Quaternary Mammalia have 88 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On Evidences of a [ Mar. 9 , been noticed .
The author concludes that the submergence of the district ( if any ) must have been small , but of its extension further eastward he has no means of judging .
Monsieur L. Lartet states that stone implements of the Palaeolithic type have been found on the surface near Bethlehem , and in some other places .
North Africa.\#151 ; The coast of North Africa presents confirmatory evidence .
It is fringed by raised beaches\#151 ; one in particular , 10 to 40 feet above the sea-level , is very constant .
Ossiferous fissures are met with on the coast at Tetuan , Oran , and other places in Algeria .
They present the same characters , and contain the remains of similar animals , as those at Nice and Gibraltar .
The fissures do not , however , seem to extend beyond Algeria , for none have been recorded in the province of Constantine , though there is a breccia which is suggestive of a Rubble-drift .
Eastward of Tunis , the country has been described as consisting of rolling hills of cretaceous rocks in a sea of Quaternary drift , which from the account of it closely resembles a rubble-drift , but osseous breccias and fissures seem absent .
It would appear , therefore , that , as on the north shores of the Mediterranean , there was a decrease in the depth of submergence as we proceed from west to east .
Egypt.\#151 ; It may in fact be a question whether the submergence extended in this direction beyond the Libyan Desert .
The escarped limestone hills and long lines of quarries in Egypt show no ossiferous fissures , nor does there seem to be any Rubble-drift overlying the fluviatile terraces of the Nile , or underlying the river alluvium .
Nevertheless there is reason to believe that Palaeolithic Man did exist there , for flint implements of the same type as those of the Thames and Somme Valleys have been found , but they were all on the surface , and none are from any deposit of well-ascertained Quaternary age .
It may further be noticed that several of the animals which disappeared with the rubble-drift in the more western districts , such as Lion , Panther , Spotted Hyaena , Hippopotamus , African Elephant , Caffir Cat , survived in the Nile Valley to historic times .
In conclusion , the author deals with certain objections which he foresees may be raised to the proposed hypothesis , especially that respecting the absence of marine remains on the submerged lands .
This , however , he attributes to the short duration of the submergence , which neither allowed time for ordinary marine sedimentation , nor for the migration and establishment of a marine fauna on the submerged area , and also to the turbid condition of the waters .
To the objections based on uniformitarian grounds to the rate of upheaval , he does not attach so much weight , as it seems to him that uniformity of energy in dealing with a body like the globe cannot be admitted .
The question should be judged by the evidence of facts and not decided by an uncertain postulate .
1893 .
] Submergence of Western Europe , fyc .
The facts , on the other hand , show that all the phases of the Rubble-drift are such as may be due to the agency of a common cause .
Briefly , whether it he the head over the raised beaches , the osseous breccia on slopes , or the ossiferous fis , they all present a complete absence of that wear which must result from river , sea , or ice action ; *11 the materials are of local origin , while all the faunal remains of these , and of one section of the loess , are such as might come from the wreck of a land surface , and a land surface only .
The hones of the animals have evidently been subjected to considerable but not lasting violence , for they are broken and splintered , yet not worn ; and though these remains are associated together in as it were a common grave , it is impossible to suppose that under the ordinary conditions of animal existence , such dissimilar orders could have been associated in life , nor , as the bones are free from all traces of gnawing , could those remains have been collected and left by beasts of prey .
These concurrent conditions , together with the mode of distribution of the Rubble-drift from many independent centres , seem to the author\#151 ; howsoever startling may be the conclusion\#151 ; to be only explicable upon the hypothesis of a wide-spread and short submergence .
Another consequence the author draws from the position of the Rubble-drift , and one that confirms a conclusion which he had drawn from very different data , is that it affords grounds to believe that in estimating the time elapsed since the so-called Post-Glacial Period , instead of a measure of 80,000 to 100,000 years , one of 10,000 to 12,000 years would be a closer approximation .
For it will have been observed that , where present , only a few feet of that peculiar drift separates the deposits of Quaternary Age from those of the newer Stone or Neolithic Age , and that nowhere have there been found between the two any sedimentary beds representing the work of any lodge period of time .
Further , the surface configuration has remained since then comparatively unaltered .
Nevertheless , the author is fully alive to the difficulties attendant upon the hypothesis he ventures to put forward .
Some of these concern naturalists rather than geologists , and the opportunity for their discussion has not hitherto arisen .
He invites younger geologists to follow up the enquiry , and submits that , so far as the actual phenomena are concerned , the hypothesis satisfies , on the whole , all the more important conditions of the problem .

