1884 .
] Origin of the Respiratory Sounds .
II .
" Experiments to Determine the Origin of the Respiratory Sounds .
" By J. F. Bullae , M.B. Cantab .
, F.R.C.S. Communicated by Dr. Lauder Brunton , F.R.S. Received October 30 , 1884 .
A detailed account of the various existing theories of the production of the respiratory sounds may be found in Dr. Paul Niemeyer 's " Handbuch der Percussion und Auscultation " ( Erlangen , 1870 ) .
The various theories , though differing in minor points , may he arranged under three principal heads .
A. According to the first the sounds are produced all along the respiratory tract by the friction of the air against its walls .
B. According to the second the sounds are produced at the glottis alone , and the differences in the sounds heard over the trachea and lungs are attributed to the greater or less conducting power of the structures through which they are heard at each spot .
C. According to the third theory the sounds are produced at those parts of the respiratory tract where the air passes from a narrower to a wider space .
Thus during inspiration one sound is produced at the glottis , and another at the points where the smallest bronchioles open into the vesicles ; During expiration a sound is produced at the glottis only .
The sounds are represented diagrammatically in the figure .
Em 1 .
The arrows show the direction of the air-current by which a sound is produced at each spot .
VOL. XXXVII .
^ B 412 Mr. J. F. Bullar .
Experiments to Determine the [ Nov. 27 , As neither of the above theories is universally accepted , the experiments about to be described were undertaken in the hope of deter , mining in what parts of the respiratory tract the breathing sounds are produced , and of deciding which , if any , of the above-mentioned theories is the true one .
/ \#166 ; The experiments were , for the most part , performed with the artificial thorax represented in fig. 2 .
This consisted of an air-tight Fig. 2 .
chamber A , with glass sides fixed upon a firm wooden bench .
From the chamber A , a large smooth hole passed through the bench into a secondary chamber C , the sides of which were made of flexible india-rubber cloth , like a bellows .
The upper edge of the india-rubber was fastened air-tight to the lower surface of the bench round the hole leading into the chamber A. The bottom of the bellows B was attached to the handle D , moving on a hinge at E. At the bottom of the bellows was the tap F. Near the middle of the roof of the chamber was a hole H large enough to admit a sheep 's or calf 's lung when collapsed .
A tap I and the tube of the flexible stethoscope L also passed through the roof , the inner end of the stethoscope being covered with bladder to prevent the escape of air or water through it .
' 1884 .
] Origin of the Respiratory Sounds .
The lower tap being shut , and water poured into the chamber till it was nearly full , the artificial chest was ready to receive the lungs .
The right lungs of calves and sheep have a small supernumerary bronchus arising from the trachea about 2 inches above its bifurcation .
The left lung was therefore always chosen to be placed in the chamber , and this was accomplished by passing the lung between the two parts of the sliding frame shown in fig. 3 , and then bringing the parts Eg .
3 .
together , so that the left bronchus passed without pressure through the hole formed by the two notches in the sides of the frame at N. One lung was then above and the other below the frame , as shown in profile in fig. 4 .
Fig. 4 .
The inner end of the stethoscope L was attached to the lower lung by tying it to the fold of pleura running down the back of the lung , and the lung and stethoscope were passed into the chamber through the hole in its roof .
2 e 2 414 Mr. J. F. Bullar .
Experiments to Determine the [ Nov. 27 , The frame ( fig. 3 ) was screwed down air-tight upon a ring of india-rubber tube placed round the hole in the roof of the chamber A , and the .
interval between the left bronchus and the frame stopped up by wrapping some tow , dipped in a strong solution of gelatine , round the ' bronchus .
The whole chamber containing the lung was now air-tight , and by opening the upper tap I and raising the handle of the bellows , any air remaining above the water in the chamber or any superfluous water could be expelled .
When the tap I was shut , moving the handle up and down caused the lung within the chamber to breathe , and by fixing the handle in different positions the lung could be kept motionless at different degrees of distension .
The chamber thus represented a thorax in which there was a sufficient amount of fluid to separate the surfaces of the lung and chest wall , and in which the respiratory movements were entirely diaphragm atic .
The motion of the machine itself and of the water contained in it produced no sound .
The object and results of the experiments about to be described will be made clearer by introducing here a short account of the respiratory sounds , and as the changes in the sounds produced by alterations in the physical condition of the lungs throw light upon their origin , a short account of the more important of these changes is also necessary .
The sounds to be considered may be divided into those of speech and those of respiration .
A. The sounds of speech are produced in the mouth and larynx .
They are heard loudly and distinctly by the stethoscope over the larynx and trachea ; over the parts of the chest in contact with the vesicular structure of the lungs they are weaker and indistinct .
In the neighbourhood of the large air passages , in the mter-scapular space , the sounds are less weak and indistinct than at other parts of the chest , and approach more nearly in character to the sounds heard over the trachea .
B. The origin of the respiratory sounds is a disputed point .
Over the trachea during both inspiration and expiration a rushing sound is heard .
Over the lungs a sound is heard during inspiration of a different character from the tracheal inspiratory sound , and during expiration the sound is either very faint or altogether absent .
As in the case of the voice there may be , in the neighbourhood of the large air passages , an approximation to the tracheal sounds .
The sounds heard over the lungs are known as the sounds of uvesicular breathing .
" 1884 .
] Origin of the Respiratory Sounds .
Changes in the physical condition of the lnngs alter the sounds either in intensity or in character , or in both , or the sounds may he altogether absent from parts where they are normally heard .
Over parts of the lung which have become consolidated , or destroyed and replaced by air , and in certain other conditions , the normal sound of vesicular breathing is replaced by an inspiratory and expiratory sound , having more the character of the sounds heard over the trachea .
These altered sounds differ in character according to the physical changes in the lungs , but they have the common feature distinguishing them from the sounds of vesicular breathing , that the expiratory sound instead of being much weaker is equal to or more intense than the inspiratory sound .
Sounds having this peculiarity are classed together as " bronchial " sounds ; they resemble more or less the sounds normally heard over the trachea .
Many different qualities of bronchial breathing may be heard and have received different names , but for the present purpose , it will be sufficient to remember their common feature , namely , that the expiratory sound is as loud or louder than the inspiratory .
When the lungs are partially consolidated or otherwise changed , an alteration of the vesicular sound is often noticed over the unaffected parts of the lungs .
The alteration consists in an increase in the intensity of both the inspiratory and expiratory sounds .
When the vesicular sound is thus intensified it is said to be " puerile " in character , the vesicular breathing of a child being louder than that of an adult .
Besides the above alterations in the breathing sounds , certain accessory sounds , such as those due to fluid in the air passages , and to friction of the pleural surfaces , \amp ; c. , may be present .
The sound of the voice heard over physically altered lung differs both in .
intensity and in character from the sound heard over unaltered lung , and so far as this change does not correspond to any alteration in the voice sounds produced in the larynx and mouth , it must be due to changes in the conducting power of the parts through which the sounds are heard .
With regard to the changes in the breathing sounds the case is not so simple , for , as we do not know where the normal sounds originate , it is impossible to say how much the changes due to altered conduction may be supplemented by changes in the sounds produced .
In the rest of .
this paper the terms vesicular , bronchial , and puerile breathing will be used , in the sense just indicated , in order to save the constant repetition of descriptions of the sounds .
When the left lung is placed , as described above , in the artificial thorax , the right lung lies upon the top of the chamber collapsed , and is unaffected by the respiration going on in the left .
416 Mr. J. F. Bullar .
Experiments to Determine the [ Nov. 27 The trachea must be kept straight , and placed so that the air can freely pass in and out of it.* The sounds heard in the two lungs are quite different .
Listening to the inner lung with the flexible stethoscope the breathing sound is quite distinct , and resembles vesicular breathing , the expiratory being very faint compared with the inspiratory sound .
Altering the size of the opening of the trachea does not sensibly affect this sound unless the narrowing be carried so far as to interfere with the entrance of air , when the sound becomes more feeble .
In the outer lung , in which the air is motionless , both inspiration and expiration are loud , the breathing is bronchial .
The sound is loudest over the larger bronchial tubes , but it is quite distinct as far as the edges of the lung .
On compressing the bronchus leading to the lung the sound ceases to be heard .
If the trachea be plugged while the inner lung is in a state of inspiration and the machine kept in motion , both lungs breathe , expiration and inspiration alternating in the two .
The breathing sound in the outer lung now becomes " vesicular , " changing to bronchial whenever the trachea is opened , and it ceases-to breathe .
The same result follows whether the trachea be left long-or cut off and plugged close to the bifurcation .
These experiments show that the vesicular murmur is not produced in the glottis or trachea alone , since it continues when the larynx and nearly the whole of the trachea are removed , and when the trachea being plugged and the lungs breathing from one to the other , there is no current of air through what is left of the trachea .
With regard to the bronchial sounds in the outer non-breathing-lung , it is well known that a current of air passing over but not entering the mouth of a tube produces a sound , which , under certain circumstances , may become a musical note , and that in cases where the sound is a noise rather than a note , that by listening carefully a note may be detected through the rushing noise .
This is exactly the character possessed by the sound of bronchial breathing ; we-easily recognise , in different cases , notes of different quality and pitch .
In the non-breathing lung of the experiment , or in a case of morbid consolidation , this condition is realised , the air-current passes down * The butchers " Usually remove the larynx from the trachea before the lungs are-sold , and in the following experiments the larynx was absent .
There were three reasons for my not objecting to this :\#151 ; 1st .
A dead larynx is a very different thing from a living one .
2nd .
The vocal cords of calves and sheep are less developed than those of man .
3rd .
A murmur is produced at the cut end of the trachea .
It will be seen in the-sequel that the reasoning of the present paper is unaffected by the absence of the larynx .
1884.J Origin of the Respiratory Sounds .
417 the trachea to the healthy parts of the lungs , and on its way blows across the mouths of the bronchial tubes leading to the consolidated parts without entering them .
There is , therefore , and priori probability that this may be the origin of some part of the sound of bronchial breathing , and in order to determine whether it is so , the following experiment was tried:\#151 ; Fio .
5 .
A Y-tube of gutta-percha , the stem about one inch and the arms about half-an-inch in internal diameter , was made to represent the lower part of the trachea , and its bifurcation into the two bronchi .
The arms were each continued by an india-rubber tube about six inches long , and to the ends of the india-rubber tubes equal sized bags of gutta-percba tissue were attached as represented in the figure .
The inside of the whole apparatus was smooth .
The artificial thorax being filled with air , the tubes , with the bags attached , were let through the roof of the chamber as far as the dotted line in the figure .
At each downward and upward stroke of the bellows air entered and escaped from the bags through the tubes , as shown by the direction of the arrows .
The movement of the bellows was so regulated as to completely fill and empty the bags at each stroke .
During the inspiration and expiration thus caused , a feeble sound was heard , no doubt produced at the open ends of the tubes , the loudness of the sounds depended upon the force with which the 418 Mr. J. F. Bullar .
Experiments to Determine the [ Nov. 27 , respirations were performed , and by working with a proper force the sound could be made very faint indeed .
If , when this was the case , one of the smaller tubes was nipped , so as to prevent any air passing through it , while continuing to work the bellows with the same force , the sounds became greatly increased .
The expiratory sound was increased more than the inspiratory , and at the same time the character of the sound changed , a note could be detected in it whose pitch varied with the part of the tube pinched , the shorter the length of tube between the bifurcation and obstruction the higher being the pitch .
The sounds could be heard either at the mouth of the large tube ( trachea ) or with the stethoscope in the obstructed and unobstructed tubes ( bronchi ) .
In this experiment if the bellows be worked at a uniform rate , the rate of the air-current in the large tube will not be appreciably affected by the stoppage of one of the smaller tubes .
( If altered it will be diminished on account of the slight increase of friction .
) The rate of the air-current through the trachea being unchanged by the stoppage of a bronchus , the increase of sound cannot be produced in the glottis .
We must seek therefore in some part of the respiratory tract below the trachea for the origin of the sound caused by bronchial obstruction .
The stoppage of one bronchus , although not affecting the rate of the air-current in the trachea , doubles its rate in the free bronchus , for when one bronchus is shut all the air entering the trachea passes through the free bronchus , and fills the bag ( lung ) belonging to it in the same time in which the two bags would have been half-filled had both the bronchi been free .
The stoppage of one bronchus not only increases the rate of the air-current in the other , but produces conditions for the development of a new sound at the bifurcation of the trachea , for as the air passes along the free bronchus it blows across the mouth of the obstructed tube , and a current of air crossing the mouth of a tube produces a sound .
A sound produced in this way , like the sound in the experiment , varies according to the length of the tube blown across , a rushing noise is produced at the mouth of the tube , and the tube , according to its length , brings into prominence some particular note present in the noise , and so modifies its character .
By working the bellows so as to completely fill and empty the bags at each stroke , the same amount of air is made to pass through each small tube , whether the other be shut or open , but when one tube is shut the whole act of inspiration or expiration comes to an end in half the time occupied when both the tubes are open .
The important points to remember are\#151 ; First , that the obstruction of a bronchus upsets the ratio normally existing between the rates of the air-current in the different parts of 1884 .
] Origin of the Respiratory Sounds .
the respiratory tract .
The cross section of the respiratory tract increases from the trachea to the vesicles , just as the cross section of the circulatory system increases from the aorta to the capillaries , and the rate of the air-current varies accordingly .
When a larger or smaller bronchus is obstructed the cross sections of the bronchi and vesicles are more or less diminished , and the rate of the air-current in them proportionately increased , the rate in the trachea being unaffected by the obstruction as such .
And , secondly , that when a bronchus is obstructed a sound is produced by the air passing over its mouth .
The diminution in the time occupied in inspiration and expiration , brought about by the obstruction of a bronchus , is probably one cause of the increased frequency of respiration in cases where the lung is consolidated or compressed .
With regard to the theory of the laryngeal production of bronchial breathing , it is to be observed that in a case of complete consolidation of one lung each respiratory act must be performed in less than half the normal time before any increase in the rate of the air-current in the larynx and trachea , and therefore of the sound produced in them , can occur .
Repeating the above experiment with calves ' lungs , the same result was obtained .
Both lungs were placed in the artificial thorax with the trachea and main bronchi above the cover .
On compressing either of the bronchi a marked increase of sound was heard over the trachea , the increase in the expiratory sound being as before the greatest .
The shortness of the main bronchi made it impossible to elicit different notes by compressing them at different points ; but it is probable that a partial consolidation by obstructing the smaller tubes would produce a different note from that obtained by stopping the air-current in the main bronchus .
The explanation of the fact that the expiratory is increased more than the inspiratory sound appears to be the following:\#151 ; During both inspiration and expiration a sound is produced by the passage of the air over the mouth of the obstructed tube .
During inspiration this is the only new sound produced , the air passing from the trachea to the bronchus , that is , from a larger to a smaller tube , as shown in fig. 6 , but during expiration the air passes from the bronchus to the trachea\#151 ; from a smaller to a larger tube\#151 ; which , as is well known , is a sufficient cause to produce a sound .
Therefore during inspiration a cause for the production of , and during expiration causes for the production of two new sounds are present .
The passage of the air from the two smaller tubes into the larger ones does not produce any considerable sound , for when they are both open the expiratory and inspiratory sounds are much alike .
It appears to me that in these experiments the conditions present 420 Mr. J. F. Bullar .
Experiments to Determine the [ Nov. 27 in the chest in health and in consolidation of the lung are represented accurately enough for the purpose , and that they illustrate the way in which bronchial breathing may be produced in extensive consolidation , and in any other conditions which , give rise to a stasis of air in the bronchial tubes .
Fio .
6 .
In such cases a new sound is produced at the junction of the obstructed with the unobstructed tubes .
This sound does not exist in health .
If the respiratory organs themselves and the structures covering them were good conductors of sound , the sounds produced at any part would be heard at all other parts , and wherever we listened on the surface of the chest or throat , we should hear the combination of all the sounds produced at the time in the different parts .
For the distance between the most remote parts of the respiratory tract is so small that none but very feeble sounds would be entirely lost on that account , even if it were not the case that in a great part of this short distance the sound is conducted through tubes ( trachea and larger bronchi ) , by which the effect of distance is diminished .
Of course each sound would bear a somewhat greater or less proportion to the whole combination , as the point ausculted was nearer to or farther from the seat of its production , and thus there would be a difference of character in the resultant or combination sound at different parts ; it would , however , at all parts be a combination of the sounds produced in the different parts of the tract .
The rate of the air-currents is so slow as to have no influence on the conduction of sound .
The bronchial breathing produced in the artificial system of tubes was heard equally well in all the tubes .
In the body , however , this is not the case , the bronchial breathing heard over a consolidated lung is not recognised on the healthy side , owing to the feeble con- 1884 .
] .
Origin of the Respiratory Sounds .
ducting power of distended lung ; for the same reason the voice is heard less plainly on the healthy side .
In the living body we are listening to the sounds over a distended lung in motion and permeated by air-currents , and in which possibly sound is being produced .
In order to test the conducting power of distended lung at rest , the following experiment was performed .
A pair of lungs were arranged in the artificial thorax in the way described in the first experiment , and in addition a large india-rubber bag filled with air was attached to the trachea by means of a tube .
By keeping the handle of the bellows fixed in any given position the lung-within the chamber could be kept for a short time at any desired degree of distension , and by pressing at intervals upon the bag , air could be forced to and fro between the bag and the lung outside the chamber , without distending the lung within it .
When this was dono the sound in the outer lung was vesicular in character , that in the inner non-breathing lung bronchial ; but the intensity of the sound in the inner lung varied with its amount of distension , being loudest when it was collapsed , and much fainter but still bronchial when it was nearly fully distended .
If , while the outer lung was being made to breathe from the bag , the handle of the bellows was allowed to move , the two lungs breathed together , and the sound in the inner lung at once increased , inspiration becoming much louder than expiration , and the sound acquired the vesicular character .
This experiment proves that the glottic and bronchial murmurs , and any other sounds elsewhere produced , are heard but faintly through a distended and motionless lung , and that their resultant has the bronchial character , expiration being heard as plainly as inspiration ; and further , that the vesicular murmur is developed during the distension of this lung still further by means of a current of air .
The only tenable explanation of these facts is that the vesicular murmur is produced in the lung itself ; for if it be not produced in the lung it must be a conducted sound , and we have just seen that expansion of the lung diminishes its conducting power ; but the-peculiarity of the vesicular sound is that it is heard loudest dtiring inspiration , that is to say while the lung is expanding , and by so doing becoming a worse conductor of sound .
The sound is loudest when the conducting power of the lung is least ; it cannot , therefore , be a conducted sound .
The sound heard over the distended but motionless lung was the combination of all the sounds produced in the respiratory tract greatly reduced by bad conduction , and consisted of sounds produced in the glottis , at the bifurcation of the trachea , and in the substance of the breathing lung .
In the present experiment the glottic sound was represented by theMr .
W. F. R. Weldon .
on the [ Nov. 27 , sound produced at the junction of the trachea with the air bag .
The origin of the sound at the bifurcation has been discussed above .
That a sound is produced in the breathing lung is proved by the experiment ; it seems probable that its cause is the passage of the air from the small bronchi into the vesicles .
In the living body , when there is stasis of air in a bronchus , the new sound formed at the mouth of the bronchus must be added to the pre-existing glottic and pulmonary sounds , and is no doubt one factor in the production of puerile or exaggerated breathing ; the increased rapidity of motion of the air in the healthy lung being another .
With regard to the production of the vesicular or as it may now be called the pulmonary sound ; if a lung be partially inflated and the bronchus tied it may be made to expand and contract freely by placing it in an air-tight vessel completely filled with water , and communicating by means of a flexible tube with a vessel containing mercury .
Raising or lowering the mercury causes the lung to contract and expand .
Under these circumstances there is no current of air through the bronchi ; as the vesicles are more extensible than the bronchial tubes , a slight current must enter them during expansion , but this appears to be insufficient to produce a sound , as none could be heard with certainty through a stethoscope applied directly to the lung .
The experiment shows that the pulmonary sound is not due to the movements of the tissues of the lung .
The results of the experiments now described are in accordance with the third theory quoted at the beginning of this paper , and the results of the vivisections performed on horses by Chauveau , Bondet , and Bergeon are confirmed by my experiments , which show that the vesicular sound is produced in the lungs , and not in the glottis or trachea .
The demonstration of the production of a new sound in bronchial obstruction I have not seen elsewhere .
III .
" Note on the Origin of the Suprarenal Bodies of Vertebrates .
" By W. F. R. Weldon , B.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 30 , 1884 .
In the early part of this year I was enabled , by the courtesy of the Royal Society , to examine some specimens of Bdellostoma Forsteri , collected by Mr. Sedgwick by means of a grant from the Society .
As a result of this examination , it appeared that the head kidney , described by Johannes Muller as connected , on the one hand with the segmental duct , and on the other by means of a branch of segmental tubules with the pericardium , had become modified in a very peculiar manner .
The

