On a New Method of Driving off Poisonous Gases .
249 the deviation in direction will be insignificant .
The friction will nevertheless make the surface velocity less than the geostrophic velocity .
In this case , therefore , cos \#171 ; \#151 ; sin a is nearly 1 , and S/ G is less than 1 .
Thus , if the turbulence decreases with height , we should expect to find S/ G less than cos# \#151 ; sin #| it was found previously that if it mcieases with height S/ G will be greater than cos a.\#151 ; sin a. ] On a New Method of Driving off Poisonous Gases .
By Mrs. Hertha Ayrton .
[ Plate 4 .
] ( Communicated by Prof. T. Mather , F.R.S. Received August 29 , 1917.)* On May 6 , 1915 , shortly after the first German gas attack , I read a paper before this Society , dealing with the variations of pressure , and consequent currents , set up in oscillating water by an obstacle on the ground under the water .
After the meeting , it occurred to me that , by oscillating an obstacle in an appropriate manner in the air close to our trenches , it ought to be possible to set up currents similar to those in the water , which , while sending the noxious gas back towards the enemy , would , at the same time , keep our men well supplied with fresh air from behind .
The obstacle must be some kind of fan , and I thought smoke might represent the gas for experimental purposes .
Smoke Apparatus .
Smoke of the right kind was not easy to produce , the difficulty being that it had to be heavier than air , as the noxious gases were said to be .
At last , however , after many trials , I found that smouldering brown paper gave very satisfactory results , if treated in the right way .
It was burnt in a biscuit tin , A ( fig. 1 ) , from which the smoke rose through a tube , B , to another box , C , issuing through a second tube , D. When this whole arrangement , except the box A , was kept wrapped in wet cloths , the smoke , cooled by the evaporation of the water and by passing through the box C , became heavier than air , and fell almost like water from the'mouth of the tube D on to one end of the Table E ( 6 feet by 3 feet ) , which had a barrier , F , at that end , to protect the smoke from accidental draughts .
On reaching the table , the smoke * Held by the Society for deferred publication after the War .
VOL. XCVI.\#151 ; A. S 250 Mrs. H. Ayrton .
expanded both in height and in width , and rolled in a very realistic manner towards the further end of the table , where a miniature parapet , G , had been Fig. i.\#151 ; Apparatus for producing smoke heavier than air .
A , Burning chamber ; B , chimney ; C , cooling chamber ; I ) , outlet ; E , table representing ground ; F , position of draught screen* ; G , miniature parapet .
made , forming a dense cloud , 2 feet to 3 feet wide and some 3 inches to 4 inches high .
( See fig. 2 , a , Plate 4 .
) Model Fan .
My first fan was a small card on a horizontal axle , which I could alternately twirl and stop , to give the impulses to the air .
This gave surprisingly good results , bub not good enough .
Then , remembering some startling air currents I had once observed after dropping one end of a glass tank on to a table , I thought I would try striking the parapet to give the impulses .
I therefore attached a handle , at a convenient angle , to a slip of wood 4 inches by 3 inches , and with this beat with quick strokes upon the parapet G ( fig. 1 ) .
The effect upon the cloud of smoke advancing from the other end of the table was miraculous ( see Plate 4 ) .
After a few seconds it first stopped , and then fled backwards as if pursued , increasing in height as it went , as if it were being brushed back ( , lig .
2 ) .
It never stopped till it was well behind the smoke-box A ( fig. 1 ) about 8 feet from the fan .
Even the stream of smoke that continued to pour from the outlet D ( fig. 1 ) was affected , being converted into a vibrating stream which rose and poured back over the smoke apparatus instead of falling and advancing as before ( c , fig. 2 ) .
The smoke continued its backward course for some little time after the beating was stopped , and finally the whole table and smoke apparatus became completely cleared\#151 ; an area of about 8 feet by 3 feet .
The next thing was to see if a still smaller fan would clear this same area .
Fans of various sizes and shapes were tried , and modifications which were found beneficial were introduced , such , for instance , as a " back " to prevent any of the air from being expelled backwards towards the operator ; and two Fig. 2 .
fable experiment in three stages : a , Smoke unchecked ; / \gt ; , smoke after three or four strokes ; c , smoke after twelve to fifteen strokes .
yrton , Roy .
Soc. , vol. 96 , Plate On a New Method of Driving off Poisonous Gases .
251 hinges\#151 ; one between back and blade , and the other in the blade itself\#151 ; each of which allowed the parts it connected to move through a certain angle only .
The final result was a fan ( fig. 3 ) with a blade inches square only , pIG\gt ; 3._Small model fan ( drawing two thirds of size of model ) with which a cloud of smoke 8 feet long , 6 feet wide , and 3 inches high was cleared in 6 seconds , ( a ) Shows fan in upward stroke ; ( b)in downward stroke .
including the back .
By tapping with this minute object on the parapet G ( fig. 1 ) for about 6 seconds , at the rate of four taps a second , I cleared the table and smoke apparatus of an advancing cloud of smoke about 3 inches high ; and even a width of 1-| feet extra on each side of a 3-foot wide table , made by extending the tablecloth , was cleared at the same time .
As the height of the smoke apparatus was about 1| feet , the air disturbance created by this fan with a blade of 1| inches square was at least 8 feet long , 6 feet wide and U feet high .
Army It remained to be seen whether a fan as large as a man could easily wield would give results great enough to be of real use at the Front .
The type shown in fig. 4 is the survivor of many models , made of various materials , and of different sizes and forms .
It has been in daily use at the Front since May , 1916 ; principally for clearing trenches , dug-outs , shell holes , mine craters , etc. , of the foul gases that always accumulate in them under shell fire .
These can now be cleared in from a few seconds to a few minutes , and can , therefore , be consolidated immediately after taking , instead of having to be left for hours , and sometimes for days , before they can be entered .
The Army fans are made of waterproof canvas stiffened with cane , with a wooden handle .
The blade has a semi-rigid centre , A , B , C , D , with loose end and side flaps ; and the back has an extra very limited hinge , E , in it to enable it to accommodate itself to the varying shapes of the backs of 252 Mrs. H. Ayrton .
parapets , corners of traverses , etc. They are 3 feet 6 inches long , have a blade 15 inches square , weigh less than 1 lb. each , and can be folded and cariied B Fig. 4.\#151 ; Army fan , open and folded up .
( 1 ) Opened , showing upper side ; ( 2 ) as folded up .
( The handle is longer than shown .
) in the braces behind the pack .
These hand-worked fans are not powerful enough to repel gas-wave attacks in the comparatively high winds employed during the later phases of the war , but in the winds of from 2 to 4 miles an hour in which the earlier attacks were made , the fans could , I believe , easily have coped with them .
I myself , on a practically windless day , have driven back smoke in considerable quantities in the open , 60 feet to the smoke box , and then a further 15 feet over trees from 12 feet to 15 feet high .
I have now ( June , 1917 ) devised a mechanically driven fan , however , which should be able to drive back large quantities of gas in any wind .
Information Derived from Testing Fans .
In the course of tests applied to various models , for comparing efficiencies , etc. , certain facts were established that throw some light on the air problems connected with the fans .
For making the tests I erected a parapet ( A , fig. 5 ) in my laboratory , about 4 feet high and 3 feet deep , with a clear space of 33 feet in front of it and of about 3 feet behind .
When a fan rested on the parapet as if in the act of striking , its tip was 35 feet from the far end of the room , where a large smoke apparatus was placed , which could pour forth a On a New Method of Driving off Poisonous Gases .
253 cloud of cooled smoke 3 feet high over the whole width of the room .
Behind the smoke apparatus was a double French window , either or both doors of which were left open during smoke experiments , according to the wind , so that any air current thus created drove the smoke towards the fan .
It was found that five strokes of the fan on the parapet drove the smoke back , after a short pause , over the smoke box and out of the window 35 feet away .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Plan of room 40 feet long , showing relative positions of parapet , fan , smoke apparatus , window , and disturbance indicators .
A , Parapet ; B , fan ; C , smoke apparatus ; D , French window ; EEE , indicators .
It was important to gain some idea as to the height to which the disturbance would travel , the distance at which a side effect could be observed , etc. , and , as it was inconvenient to use smoke for these purposes , I made four sets of indicators , each consisting of a number of pieces of tissue paper about an inch square , hanging by thin silken fibres from long horizontal sticks .
Three of these sticks were tied to the electric lamps , about 10 feet high ( 4| feet from the ceiling ) , while the fourth was mounted on a movable stand about 8 inches high , so that the indicators hung within an inch or two of the floor .
Two of the high sets fronted the parapet at distances of about 18 and 32 feet from the tip of the fan resting on it ; the third was about 20 feet from the parapet , in a diagonal line , making an angle of about 45 ' with its front ( fig. 5 ) .
Experiments with these indicators have established the following facts:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The air disturbance created by a stroke of the fan travels comparatively slowly , a single stroke with the army fan , in still air , taking 15 seconds to reach the indicators near the ground , \8 feet away .
Mrs. H. Ayrton .
( 2 ) The maximum distance at which the disturbance produced by a single stroke is perceptible increases with the velocity and amplitude of the stroke .
( 3 ) Each successive stroke , if the rate be above a certain minimum , carries the disturbance further , longitudinally , laterally , and vertically , till a certain maximum distance in each direction is reached .
( 4 ) Below the minimum rate , which bears some sort of inverse ratio to the size of the fan , this cumulative effect is not produced ; each stroke simply carries the disturbance to the maximum distance for a single stroke .
( 5 ) The cumulative effect of the strokes increases with the rate of striking , and also with the amplitude of the stroke .
( 6 ) The maximum distance at which the effect is perceptible in each direction increases with the size of the fan , with the rate of striking , and with the velocity and amplitude of the strokes .
Nature of the Disturbance .
With a view to examining the nature of the disturbance created by the fans , I have made a few experiments , by gently flapping smoke into clear air , with the following results :\#151 ; 1 .
Effect of a Single .
After a single up-and-down stroke , the air issues from between the fan and the parapet as a vortex , rotating so that its upper boundary moves towards the fan , while as a whole it travels rapidly away from it .
This vortex , the lines of which are horizontal , spreads out in an ever-widening curve , and , if no second stroke be made , it travels to a definite distance before it is dissipated .
In raising the fan , however quickly , no movement towards it of the air in front of it seems to take place , but the air that rested on it after the last down-stroke is jerked upwards , while air from behind the fan comes in under the back between it and the parapet .
The smallness of the .
air motion resulting from the raising of the fan is very remarkable when compared with the whirl caused by the gentlest down-stroke .
If you place a delicate anemometer on the parapet quite close to the tip of an army fan , and jerk the fan upwards as quickly as you can , the vanes remain immovable , while they go careering round , however gently you let ' the fan fall .
The reason is this .
In raising the fan you create air pressure above the blade and behind the back , while , at the same time , a vacuum attempts to form between the whole fan and the parapet .
If all parts of the fan were raised at once , the air from above and behind would rush round all the edges at once to fill in the vacuum .
This does happen with an ordinary straight hingeless fan , and a flicker of the On a New Method of Driving off Poisonous Gases .
255 anemometer vanes when such a fan is raised from rest shows it .
But , with my hinged fan the back is necessarily raised first , then the rigid part of the blade , and finally the end flap ; consequently , before the tip is raised , the vacuum has already been filled from behind , the flow has become steady , and it is too small at any one place to affect even a very delicate anemometer .
A row of lighted candle-ends , held at the side of a fan in action , with the flames just above the striking surface , shows with great clearness the different directions of the air currents round that side of the fan .
The flames near the front are blown outwards and quickly extinguished ; the one near the back hinge flickers to and fro undecided ; while those behind it are sucked in towards the fan .
The rush of air from behind , during flapping , is distinctly felt as a cold wind over the ears and back of the head , as was first noticed by the soldiers who tested the fans at Chatham .
It was the expectation of such a rush during the up-stroke , from analogy with my water experiments , that led me to try this method of driving off poisonous gases .
2 .
Effect of a Succession of Strokes .
If a second stroke be made quickly enough after the first for the boundary of its vortex to come into contact with that of the first , a curious thing happens .
The second vortex appears to burrow under the first , raising it bodily , and then to enter into and become enveloped in it , so that the two travel on together as one , pooling their energy , and reaching together a distance greater than the limiting distance for a single vortex .
A third vortex will either catch up the other two before a fourth reaches it , or else the third and fourth together will catch up the first and second together ; other things being equal , it is all a question of the rate of striking .
In any case , the whole four together travel further than either a single one , or two together , or three together would do , and it is easy , therefore , to see how , after a succession of rapid strokes , the whole space in front and at the sides of the fan is traversed by a procession of vortices , that nearest the fan in the form in which it was shot forth , the others combined from two or three or more , the number in each combination increasing with the distance from the fan , but all rolling towards one final goal , namely , the huge vortex which gathers in the region where the energy from the constantly arriving stream of vortices only just balances the loss of energy through friction .
The distance , in any one direction , of the further side of this vortex from the fan is the limiting distance to which the effect of the fan can reach in that direction , under the given conditions .
With my little li-inch model fan , I found the limiting distance immediately in front of the fan to be about 256 On a New Method of Driving off Poisonous Gases .
10 feet\#151 ; 80 times its own length .
With the army fan I have not yet found the limit .
Summary .
To sum up:\#151 ; Eoughly speaking , one of these fans , in action,.divides the space around it into two regions , separated by a vertical plane passing through some line in the blade of the fan parallel to its tip .
From the region behind the fan air is sucked , in motion , in all directions , towards the fan ; into the region in front air is driven forth in rotational motion away from the fan .
The fan cannot therefore be said to create a current in the ordinary sense of the word .
What it does is to collect air from one wide region into a narrow space , and there to give it energy , both rotational and irrotational , by means of which it passes into another region , in which it moves through a longer , wider , and higher space than that from which it was collected .
The fan is therefore a factory for turning still or comparatively slowly moving air into powerful vortices , which , by coalescing and reinforcing one another , are able to move through an enormous area , and to drive before them , in an ascending forward-moving stream , the air or gas that previously occupied the space through which they travel .
After the war , when practical problems are less insistent , I hope to enter more fully into the theory of this system of ousting undesirable gases by hurling vortices into them .
For the present , it only remains for me to express my most grateful thanks to Mr. Greenslade for the patriotism and enthusiasm with which he came to my aid , devoting his holidays to the purpose .
He did all the practical work of organising the tests of the fans and training soldiers to carry them out , both at Chatham and at G.H.Q. , France ; and later he went to all the four British armies in France to teach officers and N.C.O. 's what could be done with the fans and how the men should be trained to use them .
He thus gave me invaluable assistance in a part of the work that I could ill have undertaken myself .
)

