2 .
S. .
6. .
7 .
S. 8 .
errors .
oc o : ooo - : o 65 +0-8 -0-3 -0-2 +.13 -0'1 +0'30 52 +0'8 --0-2 -0-3 +1-4 0-0 +0-34 32 --08 -0.l -03 +14 -0-3 +03( ) 0 +0-6 00 00 + 17 + 02 +0-50 The numbers in the column " Mean of errors " seem to indicate little error of a systematic nature .
In the case of Nos. 2 and 7 , the index error is very large : this , it is believed , is owing to some of the vapour of alcohol having become condensed in the upper portion of the.tube before the fixed points were determined , and having escaped my notice ; in fact the greatest attention is required to avoid errors from this source .
These spirit thermometers cannot by any means be considered as standard , although they are doubtless more trustworthy than most of those ' usually made .
The limited time at my command for the completion of the instruments , prevented the possibility of rectifying any blunders into which I might have fallen , owing to my inexperience in such work , and the intricacy of the problem .
JOHN WELSH .
Kew Observatory , April 21 , 1852 .
2 .
The Reply of the President and Council to a Letter addressed to them by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , on the subject of the cooperation of different Nations in Meteorological Observations .
Communicated by direction of the President and Council .
Somerset House , 10th May 1852 .
SIn , --I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of March the 4th , transmitting , by direction of the Earl of Malmesbury , several documents received from foreign governments in reply to a ; proposal made to them by Her Majesty 's Government , for their cooperation in establishing a uniform system of recording meteorological observations , and requesting the opinion of the President and Council of the Royal Society in reference to a proposition which has been made by the Government of the United States , respecting the manner in which the proposed cooperation should be carried out .
Having submitted your letter with its enclosures to the President and Council of the Royal Society , I am directed to convey to you the following reply .
With reference to the subject of well-directed and systematically conducted meteorological observations generally , and to the encouragement and support to be given to them by the governments of different countries , the President and Council are of opinion that they are highly deserving of much consideration , not only for their scientific value , but also on account of the important bearing which correct climatological knowledge has on the welfare and material interests of the people of every country .
With reference to the proposal for the establishment of a uniform plan in respect to instruments and modes of observation , the President and Council are not of opinion that any practical advantage is likely to be obtained by pressing such a proposition in the present state of meteorological science .
Most of the principal governments of the European Continent , as Russia , Prussia , Austria , Bavaria and Belgium , have already organized establishments for climatological researches in their respective states , and have placed them under the superintendence of men eminently qualified by theoretical and practical knowledge , and whose previous publications had obtained for them a general European reputation .
Such men are Kupffer , Dove , Kreil , Lamont and Quetelet ; under whose direction the meteorological observations in the above-named countries are proceeding ; the instruments have been constructed under their care , and the instructions drawn up and published by them under the sanction of their respective governments .
The observations as they are made are sent to them , are reduced and coordinated under their superintendence , and are published at the expense of the governments .
Every year is now producing publications of this nature in the countries referred to , and by the rapid intercomlnunication of these , the results of the experience of one countryand the modifications and improvements which experience may suggest , become quickly known to all .
To call on countries already so advanced in systematically conducted meteorological observations to remodel their instructions and instruments , with a view of establishing uniformity in these respects , would probably , if pressed , elicit from other governments also the reply which Her Majesty 's Government have received from Prince Schwarzenberg , conveyed in the Earl of Westm.oreland 's letter to Viscount Palmerston , viz. the transmission of a coipy of the instructions which have been given to the Meteorological Observatories , forty-five in number , in the Austrian dominions , and a reference to the results obtained at those observatories , which are stated to be in regular course of publication .
In an 'earlier stage , when these establishments were either forming or were only in contemplation , it was considered that advantage might arise from a discussion of the objects to be principally kept in view , and of the instruments and methods by which these might be most successfully prosecuted .
For this purpose , a conference was held at Cambridge , in England , in 1845 , which was attended by many of the most distinguished Meteorologists in Europe , and amongst them by.all the gentlemen whose names are above stated , and who were expressly sent by their respective governments .
The impulse communicated by this assemblage was without doubt highly beneficial , and the influence of the discussions which.took place may perhaps be traced in some of the arrangements under which the researches in different countries are now proceeding ; b , ut in the stage to which they have advanced , it may be doubted whether any measures are likely to be more beneficial than those which would increase the facilities of a cheap and rapid intercommunication of the results of the researches which are in progress .
With reference " to the suggestions made by the scientific men of the United States , " the proposition of Lieutenant Maury , to give , a greater extension and a more systematic direction to the meteorological observations to be made at sea , appears to be deserving of the most serious attention of the Board of Admiralty .
In order to understand the importance of this proposition , it will , be proper to refer to the system of observations which has been adopted of late years in the navy and merchant service of the United States , and to some few of the results to which it has already led .
Instructions are given to naval captains and masters of ships , to note in their logs the points of the compass from which the wind blows , at least once in every eight hours : to record the temperature of the air ; and of the water at the surface , and when practicable , at considerable depths of the sea : to notice all remarkable phenomena which may serve to characterize particular regions of the ocean , more especially the direction , the velocity , the depths and the limits of the currents : special instructions:also are given to whalers , to note down the regions where whales are found , and the limits of the range of their different species .
A scheme for taking these observations regularly and systematically , was submitted by Lieut. Maury to the Chief of the Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography , in 1842 , and instantly adopted : de .
tailed instructions were given to every American shipmaster , upon his clearing from the Custom House , accompanied by a request that he would transmit to the proper office , after his return from his .
voyage , copies of his logs , as -far at least as they related to these observations , with a view to their being examined , discussed and embodied in charts of the winds and currents , and in the compilation of sailing directions to every part of the globe .
For some years the instructions thus furnished received very little attention , and very few observations were made or communicated ; the publication , however , in 1848 , of some charts , founded upon the discussion of the scanty materials which had come to hand or which could be collected from other sources , and which indicated much shorter routes than had hitherto been followed to Rio and other ports of South America , was sufficient to satisfy some of the more intelligent shipmasters of the object and real importance of the scheme , and in less than two years from that time it had received the cordial cooperation of the masters of nearly every ship that sailed .
At the present time there are nearly 1000 masters of ships who are engaged in making these observations ; they receive freely in return ' the charts of the winds and currents , and the sailing directions which are formed upon them , corrected up to the latest period .
Short as is the time that this system has been in operation , the results to which it has led have proved of very great importance to the interests of navigation and -commerce , The routes to many of the most frequented ports in different parts of the globe have been materially shortened , that to St. Francisco in California by nearly one third : a system of southwardly monsoons in the equatorial regions of the Atlantic and on the west coast of America has been discovered ; a vibratory motion of the trade-wind zones , and with their belts of calms and their limits fcr every month of the year , has been determined : the course , bifurcations , limits and other phenomena of the Great Gulf-stream have 'been more accurately defined , and the existence of almost equally remarkable systems of currents in the ' Indian Ocean , on the coast of China , and on the North-western coast of America and elsewhere has been ascertained : there are , in fact , very few departments of the science of meteorology and hydrography which have not received very valuable additions ; whilst the more accurate determination of the parts of the Pacific Ocean , where the sperm-whale is found ( which are very limited in extent ) , as well as the limits of the range of those of other species , has contributed very materially to the success of the American whale fishery , one of the most extensive and productive of all the fields of enterprise and industry .
The success of this system of cooperative observations has already led to the establishment of societies at Bombay and Calcutta , for obtaining , by similar means , a better knowledge of the winds , currents , and the course of the streams of the Indian seas .
But it is to the government of this country that the demand for cooperation , and for the interchange of observations , is most earnestly addressed jby the government of the United States ; and the President and Council of the Royal Society express their hope that it will not be addressed in vain .
We possess in our ships of war , in our packet service and in our vast commercial navy , better-means of making such observations , and a greater interest in the results to which they lead , than any other nation ; for this purpose , every ship which is under the control of the Admiralty should be furnished : with instruments 'properly constructed and compared , and with proper instructions for using them : similar instructions for making and recording observations , as far as their means will allow , should be sent to every ship that sails , with a request.that the results of them be transmitted to the Hydrographer 's Office of the Admiralty , where an adequate staff of officers or ' others should be provided for their prompt examination , and the publication of the improved charts and sailing directions to which they would lead ; above all , it seems desirable to ' establish .
a prompt communiication with the Hydrographer 's Office of the .
United States , so that the united labours of the two greatest naval and commercial nations of the world may be combined , with the least practicable delay , in promoting the interests of navigation .
The President and Council refer to the documents which have been submitted to them , and more especially to the " Explanations and Sailing Directions to accompany wind and current clarts " prepared by Lieutenant Maury , for a more detailed account of this system of cooperative observations , and of the grounds upon which they have ventured to make the preceding recommendations .
( Signed ) S. HUNTER CHRISTIE , Sec. R.S. H. U. Addington , Esq.

