]\gt ; A Critical Study of Series .
Part III.\mdash ; The Atomic Weight Term and its Import in the Constitution of Spectra .
By W. M. HICKS , F.B.S. ( Received June 7 , \mdash ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) ( Abstract .
) The wave numbers of the lines in a spectrum which form any of the recognised series can be calculated , as is well known , from an expression of the form where and fraction , the fraction being in general a function of the integer .
The constant or triplet separations of and series are formed by the deduction of a quantity , or , in the case of triplets , from , and it has long been known that these quantities are very roughly proportional to the squares of the atomic weights when elements in the same group are compared .
The present communication deals with the actual relation between and the atomic weight , and with the part it plays in the general constitution of spectra .
It is shown that there is a definite , quantity in connection with each element which is of fundamental importalJce in the building up of its spectrum .
It is proportional to the square of the atomic : in fact , if ?
denote the atomic divided by 100 its value is This quantity is of such universal application that it is useful to have a special name for it , and it has been called the oun .
Its value is denoted by , but is used for the multiple , as it is of very frequent occurrence .
evidence for its existence is based on the arc spectra of He , the elements of the Groups I and II , the Al sub-group and Sc of and the , Se oi of the Periodic Table\mdash ; in other words , all those elements in which the series lines have been allocated .
It is found:\mdash ; ( 1 ) That the which give the doublet and triplet separations are all multiples of their respective ouns .
( 2 ) That the corresponding quantities , which give the satellite separations in the series , are also multiples of the oun .
( 3 ) That the series show satellites depending in a similar way on the oun .
* It will be convenient to refer to as V ( n ) and as .
A Study of Spectral Series .
( 4 ) That , in a large number of cases , lines are related in such a way that the differences of their denominators are multiples of the oun , and that frequently in place of an expected line which is not observed another occurs related to it in this manner .
It is said to be collaterally displaced .
After reviewing the evidence for the existence of the oun the paper deals in succession with : ( a ) The constitution of the series .
After establishing the dependence of the satellite separations on the oun , it is shown to be possible that the series may not depend directly on a formula involving , but that the of different orders may be given by the successive addition , or subtraction , of various multiples of the oun .
It is curious that in those cases where there are no satellites , these differences are multiples of the themselves .
Evidence is also given to show that the decimal part of , i.e. for the first line , is a multiple of , or for triplets , but that , in the case where satellites exist , the extreme satellite is to be taken .
( b ) The constitution of the series .
The series is one whose limit is the variable part in the formula for the series corresponding to the first of the lines ; in other words , it depends on the series in the same way that the limits for the and series depend on the first line of the P. For all elements , except the alkaline earths , the lines are far in the ultrared , and it is only recently that waves of extreme wave-lengths have been measured by Paschen .
It is probable that the for the first lines in each sub-group may be the same , and even possible that it may be the same in all , the earths excepted .
In the earths there are a very large number of strong well-defined lines which are connected collaterally with one another , or with the lines of the series themselves , the displacements proceeding by multiples of .
Ihese afford values of large multiples of , and hence of ; and , in consequence , give very exact values for the latter .
( c ) The preceding results are then discussed with a view to obtaining a better approximation to the value of the oun as a function of , on the supposition that it is always proportional to it .
A value is obtained ( see above ) which is probably correct to a few un its in the fifth nificanC figure .
With further knowledge it is probable that this degree of accuracy may be extended to the sixth , and even beyond .
It is clear that with such a knowledge of this constant , and with more definite and certain knowledge of spectral relations enabling values of of the same degree of accuracy to be obtained , it will be possible to determine atomic with extreme accuracy , an accuracy much beyond that attainable by methods depending on weighing .
The large atomic weight of Ag , combined with the fact that it may be A Band Spectrum attributed to Monosulphide .
127 regarded as the basis of other atomic weights , would point to it as the best element from which to deduce the value of .
The value of its doublet separation can be determined with extreme accuracy , to one or two units in the sixth significant figure .
But , unfortunately , the deduction of from this is subject to an uncertainty which quite upsets that degree of accuracy .
The most probable value is , however , very close to that obtained by the final discussion .
The uncertainty is due to a doubt as to the real relations of lines usually assigned to the , and series in Ag , and it is hoped to clear this up by a further consideration of the spectrum .
It is then shown how the ] indicated in the fore o discussion enable the doublet and the satellite differences for Au , and the limits of the series to be determined .
The value of for Sc is considered in Appendix I. In Appendix IT , the wave-lengths of the and lines treated of , together with short historical notes , are given .
A Band attributed to Carbon lphide .
By L. C. MARTIN , A.R.C.Sc .
, B.Sc. , Research Student Imperial College of Science and Kensington .
( Communicated by A. Fowler , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \mdash ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) [ PLATE 6 .
] The experiments described in the present paper were made in connection with the investigation of sulphur spectra developed by the nitrogen in continuation of previous observations by Profs .
Strutt and Fowler .
* A result of considerable interest is the detection of a series of ultra-violet hands which appear to be characteristic of a compound of sulphur and carbon .
This band system extends from approximately .
It is , however , quite distinct from that deyeloped , in the same ion , by carbon disulphide in the .
afterglow , which is described in the paper to which the reference is given .
Further photographs were taken , and it was found that the two sets of bands had nothing whatever in common .
Confirnlation of Prof. Strutt 's work on the chemical actions taking place between carbon disulphide and the active nitrogen was obtained .
yreen deposit of nitrogen sulphide formed in the experimental tube , and also a .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 86 , p. 111 .

