176 A Further Note on the Conversion of Diamond into Coke High Vacuum hy Cathode Rays .
By Alan A. Campbell Swinton .
( Communicated by the Hon. C. A. Parsons , C.B. , V.-P.R.S .
Received January 28 , \#151 ; Read February 4 , 1909 .
) In a previous paper on this subject by the Hon. Charles A. Parsons and the writer , * experiments were described designed to ascertain whether any gas was emitted by diamond during its conversion into coke .
Two spectrum tubes were connected to the cathode ray furnace , in which the diamond was heated to destruction .
One of these was sealed off just before and the other just after the conversion , but when the spectra of these two tubes were photographed alongside one another the differences that existed did not appear sufficiently marked to determine with exactitude any variation in the nature of the gases present .
The present note has reference to further and more detailed investigation made on the suggestion of Mr. Parsons by the writer , with special regard to the possibility of diamonds containing neon , krypton , or other rare gas which would be emitted on the diamond being converted into coke .
As before , spectrum tubes connected with the cathode ray furnace were sealed off so as to contain samples of the residual gas before and after the conversion .
The spectra of these were compared both photographically and also by direct visual examination in the'spectroscope , with the result that though differences were observed in regard to the relative brightness of various individual lines in the two spectra , careful observation showed that in no single instance was there any line in one spectrum that could not be obtained in the other by suitably adjusting the strength of the electric discharge through the spectrum tube .
From this it would appear that the conversion of diamond into coke , if it sets free any gas at all , at any rate does not liberate any other than one or more of the comparatively common gases .that are generally found as residuals in cathode ray tubes exhausted from air in the ordinary way .
Though this is a negative result , it has been thought well to put it on record .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 80 , pp. 184-5 .

