On Ice found in the bottoms of Rivers .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read May 23 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 286 .
] The author having witnessed this phenomenon in the course of last winter in the river Teme , which runs past his residence in Herefordshire , describes the appearances that he observed , and relates the circumstances under which they occurred , for the purpose of accounting for a fact which , though frequently noticed , has not yet been satisfactorily explained .
After a night that had been intensely cold , the stones in the rocky bed of the river glistened with a kind of silvery whiteness , which , upon examination , arose from numerous spicula of ice adhering to them , and crossing each other in every direction .
The river was not at that time frozen over in any part , but the temperature of the water was at the freezing point ; and in a mill-pond just above , the water was replete with millions of spicula of ice , which naturally would have a tendency to rise and form a crust at the surface ; but in falling over a low weir into a narrow channel , numerous eddies , occasioned by large projecting stones , constantly carried fresh spicula to the bottom , where they collected against the surfaces and in the cavities opposed to the current , especially in those parts where it became less rapid .
Had the coldness of the weather continued , it is conceived that the ice might have continued to accumulate to much larger quantities , as it had been known to do in the same situation some years preceding , when the frost was of long duration .
It was remarked by Mr. Knight , that near the shore the ice that adhered to stones partly out of the water had a firmer consistence , although apparently originating from the same source .
This ice extended as far as half a yard from the shore , and was three or four inches below the surface of the water .
This did not melt so rapidly as that which was deposited at greater distances from the sides , and at greater depths .
Although the existence of porous ice in any large quantities may thus be explained in larger rivers , where there are eddies sufficient to carry floating spicula in contact with the bottom , yet the author expresses his doubts respecting large masses of solid ice said to have been found at the bottoms of deep and sluggish rivers , in which there are no eddies to cause the descent even of small particles , and no obvious cause of subsequent consolidation .

