Some farther Account of the Fossil Remains of an Animal , of which a Description was given to the Society in 1814 .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 13 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 318 .
] The present descriptions are taken from specimens in the collection of Mr. Buckland of Oxford , and Mr. Johnson of Bristol , and are thought to determine the class to which this animal belongs .
The structure of .
the vertebrae , as shown in the author 's former paper , made it evident that the progressive motion of the animal resembled that of fishes ; but at that time neither the scapula in its perfect state had been seen , nor had the bones of the pectoral fin been found , which now make it clear that all the bones correspond with those of fishes , but differ essentially from those of land animals .
In all animals that breathe by means of lungs , the ribs are articulated both to the bodies and to the transverse processes of the vertebre , so as to admit of expansion of the chest ; but the ribs of fishes which solely give defence to the viscera , have only one insertion , being connected solely with the bodies of the vertebrwe , midway between their two articulating surfaces , so as not to interfere with the motion of the vertebrae on each other , as is the case in land animals .
The author observes , that the ribs in this animal are placed in all respects like those of fish .
In the whale tribe the scapula and bones of the fore fin resemble those of the crocodile , and they bear a close analogy to those of land animals in general ; but in this animal these bones , it is observed , resemble those of the shark .
It is remarked also , that the bones in the young state have epiphyses , as is the case with the bones of fish generally .
The ribs also appear to have been soft like those of fish , as we may judge from the grooved or fluted form , they have assumed by compression .
But though , from consideration of all these circumstances , Sir Everard Home has no doubt that this animal was a fish , he admits that the long projecting snout and conical teeth show a marked difference between this animal and any now in existence , and may occasion a difficulty in arranging it with any class of known animals .

