417 1884 .
] On the Origin of Fibrin Ferment .
the exciting influence is withdrawn , is formed by mutual molecular reactions producing closed circuits of mutual attractions as demonstrated in iron .
A line of force between a magnet and its armature is to me simply a line of molecular rotation , lines would neither be added nor subtracted , they could simply be rotated from a symmetrical neutrality to an equal symmetrical point of saturation .
In my paper upon the theory of magnetism , I showed that there were several molecular arrangements which produced external neutrality , the circular chain of molecules , when an electric current passes through an iron wire , a neutrality produced by an artificial superposition of a weaker contrary magnetism upon one more internal , and made the supposition that were it possible to have a piece of iron free from the influence of the earth , then ( if there had been no previous magnetisation directing the structure ) the molecules would short circuit their mutual attractions in the shortest path .
The experiments cited in this paper are of an extremely simple nature , and after being verified by independent observers can no longer leave doubt as to the cause of neutrality .
Whatever theory we adopt as an explanation of evident magnetism , it will be found that neutrality occurring after the cessation of an external inducing force upon a bar of iron or steel , is the result of symmetrically opposed polar forces , producing apparent waves of opposite polarity , or reactions between the exterior and interior of a bar of iron .
II .
" On the Origin of the Fibrin Ferment .
" By L. C. WOOLDRIDGE , M.B. , D.Sc .
, George Henry Lewes Student .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received February 26 , 1884 .
The " fibrin ferment " which makes its appearance in shed blood is generally , I believe , supposed to arise from the cellular elements of blood , either from ordinary white corpuscles or from some special kind of corpuscles , the cells so concerned discharging the ferment into the blood or setting it free by their actual disintegration .
Without wishing to deny that this may be one source of fibrin ferment , I am able , I think , to bring forward evidence that ferment may make its appearance in blood-plasma perfectly free from cellular , and indeed from all formed elements , in which case it must arise from some constituents of the plasma itself , and not from cells of any kind .
It will be most convenient , perhaps , if I state the facts which I have to bring forward in connexion with two series of experiments .
Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ Mar. 6 , I. A measured quantity of blood was received directly from the carotid of a dog into a vessel containing an equal bulk of a 10 pe\#187 ; cent , solution of common salt , great care being taken that the com-plete admixture of the blood and salt solution was effected as rapidly as possible .
By the help of the centrifugal machine plasma was sepa* rated from this " salted blood , " and this plasma was again subjected to the action of the machine until all traces of formed elements were removed .
As is well known , a portion of such a plasma diluted with five times its bulk of water coagulates rapidly , whereas the undiluted plasma remains liquid for an almost indefinite time .
According to commonly received opinions , such a " salted plasma " contains all the fibrin factors , including the ferment , the latter having already passed out of the cells into the plasma ; and the reason given of the absence of coagulation in such a salted plasma and its occurrence upon dilution is , that the presence of the salts presents a hindrance to the action of the fibrin ferment , and that this obstructive influence of the salt is removed by the dilution of the mass .
No one , however , as far as I know , has taken the trouble to ascertain whether fibrin ferment is present in such salted plasma .
And , as a matter of fact , it is not ; whereas it does make its appearance as soon as dilution with water has taken place , as the following experiment shows:\#151 ; A portion of the undiluted salted plasma was treated with absolute alcohol in large excess , and the precipitate after being allowed to remain under the alcohol for three or four weeks was dried at a low temperature and extracted with water\#151 ; that is to say , the plasma was treated in the way usually adopted for obtaining a solution of ferment fairly free from proteids , \amp ; c. A portion of the diluted plasma , or rather of the serum resulting from the coagulation of the diluted plasma , was treated in an exactly similar manner .
The aqueous extract of the diluted plasma brought about coagulation in specimens of magnesium sulphate plasma ( such as is usually employed for testing the presence of fibrin ferment ) in from ten to fifteen minutes .
The aqueous extract of the undiluted plasma brought about no coagulation in specimens of the same magnesium sulphate plasma , even after the lapse of eighteen hours .
The conditions of each experiment were made as exactly alike as possible ; and the conclusion seemed inevitable that ferment is present in the diluted and coagulated plasma , but absent from the undiluted plasma .
This conclusion is , moreover , supported by the following experiments :\#151 ; To a portion of the undiluted plasma above mentioned a small quantity of fibrin ferment was added , in the form of the dried precipitate thrown down by alcohol , i.e. , a mixture of coagulated proteids and ferment .
Coagulation took place .
I have no record of '.884 .
] On the Origin of Fibrin Ferment .
he exact time elapsing between the addition of ferment and the appearance of the clot , but it was certainly not longer than three or qpour hours .
1 II .
Of the so-called peptone-plasma ( i.e. , plasma of the blood of a log after the injection of peptone into the veins , such blood , as is Well known , coagulating with great difficulty ) , freed from all cellular * elements by the centrifugal machine , two portions were taken .
To the one ( A ) a quantity of lecithin was added , the lecithin being rubbed up with the plasma so as to be diffused through it ; the other ( B ) was left untouched .
| Through both a stream of carbonic acid was passed , with the result that while A clotted in about ten minutes , B after the lapse of half an hour showed no disposition whatever to coagulate .
Both portions f were then treated with excess of alcohol for the extraction of fibrin ferment in the usual way .
The aqueous extract of A proved to be exceedingly rich in ferment , producing coagulation in magnesium sulphate plasma in about ten minutes .
The similarly prepared aqueous solution of B produced no coagulation at all .
How I have elsewhere , * in discussing the action of lecithin in promoting coagulation , shown that the coagulation which is brought about by the addition of lecithin is not due to the lecithin or to any \#166 ; of its products of decomposition acting after the manner of a ferment , or to its carrying a fibrin ferment with it .
In this case , therefore , as in the previous case of " salted " plasma , the ferment appears to be absent before coagulation , but to be present after coagulation .
I may here call attention to an observation made by Rauschenbach.t This observer found that the addition of yeast to plasma , prevented from coagulating by exposure to cold , brought about coagulation , and at the same time gave rise to the appearance of a large quantity of fibrin ferment .
Nevertheless , he completely failed to extract any fibrin ferment from the yeast itself .
Now yeast is very rich in lecithin , and it seems highly probable that the coagulation caused by yeast was due to the lecithin contained in it , and hence the appearance of the fibrin ferment after the addition of yeast , and consequent \#166 ; coagulation , is quite parallel to the result of the experiment with lecithin and peptone-plasma recorded above .
In both cases the ferment appears to have arisen out of the plasma itself .
It is possible to obtain a coagulation in peptone-plasma without the addition of lecithin .
For this purpose large dilution is necessary , followed by the passage of a stream of carbonic acid gas .
But in such a case , however , coagulation is not only long in making its appearance , but the fibrin is formed , so to speak , in successive crops .
Thus a feeble coagulation first appears , and if the clot so formed be removed , a * " Journ. of Physiol. , " vol. iv .
p. 226 .
t " Blutplasma u. Profcoplasma , " Inaug .
Diss .
, Dorpat .
VOL. XXXVI .
On the Origin of Fibrin Ferment .
[ Mar. 6 succeeding coagulation is observed some time later , to be followed in turn by a third , and so on .
When lecithin , on the other hand i\#174 ; added , without previous dilution , the clotting is speedy and complete If the serum thus resulting from the coagulation of peptone-plasma brought about by large dilution and treatment with carbonic acid be examined for fibrin ferment in the usual way , it will be found to con-tain ferment , though much less than could be obtained from a corresponding quantity of the same plasma coagulated rapidly by the add ition of lecithin .
The relative amount of ferment appearing under different circumstances is illustrated by the following experiment:\#151 ; Of three equal portions of the same peptone-plasma , one portion was simply treated with a stream of carbonic acid gas , without any dilution , and did not coagulate ; a second was treated with a stream of the same gas after large dilution , and coagulated slowly ; to a third lecithin was added , and a stream of carbonic acid passed through it , with the result of producing a rapid and complete coagulation .
All three portions were treated in the same way for the extraction of the fibrin ferment , and the activity of the three aqueous extracts then prepared was tested under exactly the same conditions , with the help of magnesium sulphate plasma .
The first produced no coagulation after the lapse of twenty hours .
The second produced coagulation in four hours .
The third produced coagulation in five minutes .
The amount of ferment seems to be in proportion to the energy of coagulation and the presence of ferment after simple dilution , and the action of carbonic acid gas shows that the ferment appearing after coagulation by the help of lecithin does not come from the lecithin itself .
Thus there is a remarkable coincidence between the occurrence of coagulation itself and the appearance of the fibrin ferment , and that ' in plasma freed most carefully from all cellular elements .
I believe , therefore , that I am justified in concluding that though fibrin ferment does not pre-exist in normal plasma , it may make its appearance in that plasma in the absence of all cellular elements , , and must therefore come from some constituent or constituents of the plasma itself .
I am still engaged in investigations directed to find out what that constituent is , or what those constituents are .

