Observations on the Genus Planaria .
By J. R. Johnson , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 27 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 437 .
] In this paper the author confines his observations to four species of the above genus , which are delineated of their natural size in an annexed drawing .
T'hey are generally clustered under leaves , stones , or pieces of wood , in slow streams ; they are very rapid and changeable in their movements , in consequence of the annular muscles of which the body consists ; their texture , however , is so soft , as not to admit of accurate dissection , though the author was able to ascertain that the body consisted of one common cavity , with lateral cells , like that of the medicinal leach .
In the Planaria torva , two ventral apertures are particularly distinct .
The upper one gives passage to a long flexible tube , and the lower conducts to the ovarium ; this tube they frequently project , and employ it in seizing worms and aquatic insects ; they also receive their food by this organ , and not exclusively by the mouth , as the author proved by presenting an earth worm to one of the Planarie lacteae , from which he had removed the head ; it soon affixed itself , and became distended by food .
When , however , the animal is injured , or loses this tube , it then takes sustenance by the mouth .
Though he has repeatedly seen the young of the Planaria torva and Planaria cornuta , the author has not determined whether they are oviparous or viviparous .
The Planaria lactea and Planaria brunnea are oviparous , producing eggs within a membranous capsule , each of which produces from 3 to 8 young , which , on escaping from the egg , are of various sizes , and very active .
But the most singular part of the history of these animals is , that they not only perpetuate their species as above described , but also by a natural division of their body into two portions , the head part reproducing a tail , and the tail a head in about fourteen days .
These appearances are represented in annexed drawings , and several experiments are detailed in further illustration of their reproduction , showing that a perfect animal is producible .

