III .
" Contribution to the Anatomy of Hatteria ( Rhynchocephalus , Owen ) .
" By ALBERT GiUNTHER , M.A. , Ph. D. , M.D. Communicated by Prof. OWEN .
Received April 4 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The skull of Hatteria is distinguished by the following characters : 1 .
Persistence of the sutures , especially of those between the lateral nalves of the skull , combined with great development of its ossified parts , as it appears in the expanse of the bones forming the upper surface of the facial portion , in the completeness of an orbital ring with a temporal and zygomatic bar ( Crocodilia ) , in the much expanded columella , in the nearly completely osseous bottom of the orbit , and roof of the palate .
2 .
Sutural union of the tympanic with the skull ; firm and solid union of the bones of the palate with the tympanic , as shown by the sutural connexion of tympanic and pterygoid , broad sutural connexion of the columella with tympanic and pterygoid , immovable pterygo-sphenoid joint , firm and extensive attachment of pterygoid to ectopterygoid .
3 .
This restriction of the mobility of the bones named is compensated by an increased and modified mobility of the lower jaw , the mandibles being united by ligament , and provided with a much elongate articular surface .
4 .
Displacement of the palatine bones , which are separated by the pterygoids , and replace a palatal portion of the maxillaries .
5 .
Perforation of the tympanic ; extremely short postarticular process of the mandible .
The vertebral column and the remainder of the skeleton show the following peculiarities:1 .
Vertebrae amphiccelian ; caudal vertebrse vertically divided into two equal halves .
Points of minor importance are the uniform development of strong neural spines , and the direction of the caudal pleurapophyses which point forwards .
2 .
The costal hsemapophyses are modified , first , into a series of appendages identical in position with the uncinate processes of birds ; and secondly , into a double terminal series connecting the ribs with the thoracic and abdominal sterna , the distal pieces being much dilated and forming the base of a system of muscles ( retractors of the abdominal ribs ) .
3 .
The development of a system of abdominal ribs , standing in intimate and functional relation to the ventral integuments .
4 .
Continuity of the ossification of the coracoid ; presence of an acromial tuberosity of the scapula ; subvertical direction of the os ilium .
5 .
The arrangement of the bones of the limbs and their muscles does not show any deviation from the Lacertian type .
The dentition of Hatteria is unique .
That of young examples differs scarcely from the dentition of other acrodont lizards .
In adult examples the intermaxillaries are armed with a pair of large cutting-teeth ; a part of the lateral teeth are lost , and the alveolar edges of the jaws are cutting and highly polished , performing the function of teeth .
A series of palatine teeth is in close proximity and parallel to the maxillary series , both series receiving between them in a groove the similarly serrated edge of the mandible .
As regards the organs of sense , the absence of the pecten of the eye and of the tympanic cavity , the commencement of a spiral turn of the cochlea , and the attachment of the hyoid bone to the terminal cartilage of the stapes-are to be noticed .
The structure of the heart and of the organs of respiration and circulation are of the Lacertian type .
The absence of a copulatory organ is a character by which Hatteria is Prof. Cayley on the Curves distinguished from all other Saurians .
Thus Hatteria presents a strange combination of elements of high and low organization , and must be regarded as the type of a distinct group .
Its affinities and systematic position may be indicated in the following synopsis of RECENT REPTILIA : I. SQUAMATA .
First order .
Ophidia .
Second order .
Lacertilia .
Suborder A. Amphisbcenoidea .
Suborder B. Cionocrania .
Suborder C. Chameeleonoidea .
Suborder D. Nyctisaura .
Third order .
Rhynchocephalia .
II .
LORICATA .
Fourth order .
Crocodilia .
III .
CATAPHRACTA .
Fifth order .
Chelonia .

