TAB. III .
page .153 .
Philosoph. Transact. no. 337 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
ddadd abab c c d Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
aac d dd abab Fig. 8 .
d cc d cab c aaac dd ababab Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
XIII .
An Account of same farther Experiments touching the Ascent of Water between two Glass Planes in an Hyperbolick Curve .
By the late Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. THE Figure of the Hyperbolick Curve , formed by the Ascending of Water between two Square Glass Planes , as related in Philosoph. Transact. Numb. 336 .
gave me occasion to make some farther Enquiries ; and by many Experiments I find , that the same Curve holds in all Directions of the Planes , the Assymtotes being always , one the Surface of the Water , the other a Line drawn along the touching Sides .
Thus , when the touching Sides were plunged under the Surface of the Water , and the Angle c was depressed and made to remain lower than the Angle a. as in Fig. 1 .
then would be produced such an oblique Curve , as may be observed in that Figure .
In all the several Schemes , ab represents the Surface of the Water on the outside of the Planes~ and ac the touching Sides of the same .
Now , tho ' the Curve dd rises between the Planes in such an obliquity , yet does it conform it self in its Figure to the Assynatotes , viz. ab the Surface of the Water , and ac the touching Sides of the Planes ; for supposing the Assymtote ac to be continued , as in the pricked Line , till it surmounts the Surface of the Water to such a height , or suppose the Planes extended in the same manner , then would the Water remain between them in the appearance of the ~ Lines , being at all distances from the Axis of the Curve , equal in respect to the AssymX totes totes ; and so of all the rest of the Curves , as in the Figures 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 .
which are the result of the several Angles , made by the touching Sides of the Planes .
Now when the touching Sides were placed upwards , parallel to the Surface of the Water ( as in Fig 7 .
) and plunged wholly under the same , then upon lifting them up , in the same Position , till the weight of the Water between the Planes over-ballanc 'd the Power of their Attraction , two Curves , one from each side of the Planes , would open themselves , and meet each other in the middle , as represented in the aforesaid Figure ; where they would unite , and make a Figure as join d by the pricked Lines , being wider in the middle than towards the sides of the Planes .
And it is highly remarkable , that this Curve would always break out between the Planes , at an equal distance between the touching sides and the Surface of the Water .
The same Figure is likewise produced between two round Glass Planes , ( see Fig 8 .
) the Assymptotes being the same as the former ; that is to say , one the Surface of the Water , the other a Tangent drawn from the touching Point , parallel to a Tangent drawn from the open or opposite part of the Planes , being at right Angles with a Line drawn thro ' the Axis of the same .
These Experiments I find to answer the same in Vacuo , as in the open Air ; so that that Element has nothing to do in this extraordinary appearance .
The Planes made use of in the foregoing Experiments were about 7 Inches square , opened on one side to an Angle of 20 Minutes or thereabouts ; the round Planes were in Diameter near 3 Inches .

