Serological Types of B. tetani of Men .
529 The figure is by Mr. W. Pilgrim , the laboratory draughtsman .
We wish to express our great indebtedness to Dr. H. Henry , Dr. J. McIntosh , Dr. R. A. O'Brien , Miss Muriel Robertson , and Captain W. J. Tulloch , , R.A.M.C. , for their readiness in assisting our investigations by supplying us with information and material .
The Distribution of the Serological Types of B. tetani Wounds of Men who received Prophylactic and a Study of the Mechanism of Infection in , and Immunity from , Tetanus .
By Major W. J. Tulloch , M.D. , R.A.M.C. , Lecturer in Bacteriology , University of St. Andrews , Member of the War Office Committee for the Study of Tetanus .
( Communicated by Major-General Sir David Bruce , F.R.S. Received January 30 , 1919 .
) ( From the Laboratories of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine and the Royal Army Medical College .
) Introduction .
The bacteriological investigation of tetanus , the results of which are summarised in the present communication , was undertaken on behalf of the War Office Committee for the Study of Tetanus .
Before the bacteriological examination of a relatively large number of cases of tetanus could be effected , it wns found necessary to elaborate a suitable technique , * as the existing methods for the cultivation of B. tetani proved to be wholly inadequate .
Apart from its practical application , this preliminary work was of great value , in that it called attention to the important factor of symbiosis in the growth of anaerobic bacteria .
The cycle in the development of anaerobic bacteria in cultures of the mixed flora of wound exudates is remarkably constant , and it is not improbable that a similar sequence occurs in the wounds themselves .
The first organisms to appear are rapidly growing bacilli typified by B. Welchii , followed by the proteolytic group of anaerobes of the B. srporogencs Types .
On the decline of the proteolytic group , B. tetani and other similar organisms appear , which may ultimately predominate in the cultures .
* See p. 589 .
530 Major W. J. Tulloch .
Serological Types B. tetani These preliminary inquiries also resulted in the differentiation of three serological Types of B. tetani ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) .
The demonstration of these Types raised the following questions :\#151 ; ( i ) Does the administration of anti-toxin corresponding to one Type confer immunity against all Types ?
( ii ) If this be the case , is the immunity so conferred more adequate against homologous bacilli than against serologically heterologous bacilli ?
These questions will be dealt with under the following headings:\#151 ; Section I.\#151 ; Inquiry into the prevalence of the various Types of B. tetani in wound exudates of cases of declared tetanus , together with a corresponding investigation of wounds of men showing no evidence of tetanus .
Evidence of geographical distribution of types of tetanus bacilli .
Section II.\#151 ; Examination of the mechanism of infection in tetanus as distinct from the mechanism of intoxication .
Section III.\#151 ; Serum prophylaxis in experimental animals from the standpoint of infection .
Section IV.\#151 ; Inquiry as to whether ( a ) Mono typical anti-toxin exhibits specific anti-infective properties .
( b ) Inoculations of cultures of B. tetani give rise to anti-bacterial bodies specific to the type of organisms used .
Section I. ( A ) Prevalence of the Different Types of B. tetani in Wound Bxudates from Declared Cases of the Disease as Differentiated by the Agglutination Method .
( B ) Prevalence of the Different Types of B. tetani Wounds of Men showing no Evidence of Tetanus Differentiated as ( A ) .
A. Attention must be drawn to the fact that the cultures used in the preparation of sera employed in these investigations were subjected to ver ) critical scrutiny before they were used as " Type Strains .
" They were purified with extreme care , the final " isolation " being effected by Barber s micro-inoculation method ( 3 ) .
I might here point out that over a period of at least 20 months the stock cultures have remained consistently true to Type , and that even with sera having a titreof more than 1/ 3000 the agglutination reactions have remained specific .
In the early stages of the investigation it was found that all the strains oi B. tetani obtained from the various Serum Institutions in this country agglutinated with the serum prepared against U.S.A. standard strain .
This strain will hereafter be referred to as " Type I. " It was therefore of paramount Wounds of Men who received Prophylactic Inoculation .
531 importance that a census should be made of the various tetanus bacilli recovered from cases of the disease .
Such an investigation would give an indication as to whether in man a monotypical serum gives adequate protection against all Types .
If\#151 ; either in a qualitative or quantitative sense\#151 ; such protection were specific , the preponderance of cases among inoculated men should prove to be due to infection with heterologous Types .
The first series of 14 toxic cultures investigated by the agglutination technique were all obtained from wounds of men who had received serum prophylaxis .
The methods used in the examination of this series are fully dealt with in previous publications , but the results may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; Twelve of the 14 cultures examined reacted in the presence of one or other of the Type agglutinating sera ; 2 proved to be Type I , 7 Type II , and 3 Type III .
One of the two remaining cultures was found , on further purification , to contain Type II , but the other could not be placed .
It is probable , in the latter case , that the number of tetanus bacilli in the culture was small , for when mice and rats were injected with as much as 0'5 cub. cm .
doses of a 4-day culture , only local tetanus developed , and that four days after inoculation .
Agglutinating sera , prepared by the inoculation of non-toxic end-sporing bacilli ( some of which closely resemble B. tetani ) , failed to agglutinate relatively pure toxic cultures .
Further , the type sera failed to flocculate cultures of non-toxic end-sporing bacilli .
A second series of investigations were then undertaken , and strains from 100 cases of declared tetanus occurring among wounded men have been successfully examined by the agglutination technique .
During this inquiry a fourth type of B. letani appeared , but it has only been found to occur in four cases of the disease .
The distribution of the types in this series is given in Table I. Table I.\#151 ; Distribution of Types in cases of Declared Tetanus .
Number .
Type .
Percentage .
41 L 4L 22 LI 22 33 III 33 4 IV 4 The actual incidence and death-rate percentage from each " type infection " is graphically shown in fig. 1 .
2 u 2 532 Major W. J. Tulloch .
Serological Types of B. tetani in Of this series of 100 cases , full information was available concerning 91 men who were known to have received prophylactic treatment .
The serum used for prophylaxis was presumably prepared mainly from growths of Type I bacilli .
A B jo______ao_______3o_______Ao_______________jo_______ao 30 \#166 ; i T mu~r ifTl i n \#166 ; \#166 ; H Q IY i Died .
_ Recovered 1 Nit IY Fig. 1.\#151 ; Declared Cases of the Disease occurring in 91 Inoculated Men .
If the consideration be limited to those cases of the series in which tetanus supervened within 14 days , the results obtained may be set forth graphically as in fig. 2 .
JO 20 go 40 50 fMiMMMMii/ A r/ m/ // wwt/ // f/ /n y/ y/ // // // // // // // // /i Incidence Fig. 2.\#151 ; Cases of Tetanus in Inoculated Men due to Types I , II and III , in which the onset occurred within two weeks .
Rates expressed in percentages .
Summary.\#151 ; These findings thus suggest that prophylaxis with mono typical anti-toxin may possibly result in monotypical immunity .
Wounds of Men who received Prophylactic Inoculation .
533 ( B ) On making a similar inquiry into the prevalence of different serological types of B. tetani in wounds of men showno evidence of , a number of important points were brought out .
( i ) In a series of 100 wounds , B. tetani was recovered and typed in 19 instances .
The distribution of the Types was as follows : Fifteen contained Type I bacilli ; two contained Type II bacilli ; one contained Type III bacilli ; one contained Type IV bacilli .
The method adopted was , if possible , to obtain five swabs from each wound at intervals of approximately one week .
In the 19 cases in which B. tetani was found , the organism was not invariably present in all five swabs .
This can be readily understood when it is borne in mind that the infection may be localised to a particular area in the granulating surface .
This is , in fact , the same problem as that which is met with in making statistics of diphtheria carriers ; but in the case under consideration , the error is magnified owing to the technical difficulties of the investigation .
( ii ) The persistence or recrudescence of tetanus infection of wounds is remarkable .
This is well exemplified in the present series by one case especially , in which the bacillus was recovered 882 days after injury .
( iii ) In those cases of the series in which B. tetani was demonstrated in more than one swab , the organism recovered on each occasion remained true to type .
( iv ) In all , 25 strains of B. tetani have been obtained from non-tetanus cases .
This includes the 19 instances above mentioned , together with six specimens sent for investigation from various sources .
The results are given in the following Table :\#151 ; Table II.\#151 ; Distribution of the Different Types of B. tetani , obtained from wounds of men showing no evidence of Tetanus .
Number .
Type .
f 4 Percentage .
19 I 76 3 11 12 2 III 8 1 IV 4 If , now , Tables I and II be compared it will be seen that : ( i ) If the total number of cases in Tables I and II be taken together , the number ofi infections with Type I is large , but the percentages of declared tetanus and of the death rate , on the other hand , are low .
( ii ) In the case of infections from Types II and III respectively , the total numbers of infections is not so large as in the case of Type I , but the 534 Major W. J. Tulloch .
Serological Types of B. tetani in percentage incidence of the disease among men infected is higher , and the death rate is also considerably higher .
These facts are graphically shown in fig. 3 .
10 jo ao no bo eo to \#166 ; i rmrnnm* !
Mmm 1 m. n .
From Cases ..from " Indil Wounds Ytrenf in mnmm )Y Fig. 3.\#151 ; Types of B. tetani isolated from cases of the disease compared with those isolated from " indifferent wounds , " expressed as percentage of the total numbers isolated from each source .
If the figures of Table II be considered as an index of the prevalence of the various Types , it can be assumed that , of x wounded men , one falls a victim to tetanus ; it then follows that the number of wounded men who will have been infected with Type I bacilli before one case of the disease occurs will be 15/ 100 xx .
Similarly , Type II will be 2/ 100 and Types III and IV 1/ 100 xx .
This is indicated graphically in fig. 4 .
3 IO IS % I n \#166 ; in # \#166 ; W Pig .
4.\#151 ; Estimation of the number of men who must be infected with each type of the bacillus in order to produce one case of the disease .
The columns indicate the numbers of infections x Wounds of Men ivho received Prophylactic Inoculation .
535 Summary.\#151 ; This Section of the investigation suggests that the serological Type of the infecting bacillus may be of importance in relation to the pathogenesis of tetanus in men who have received serum prophylaxis .
Proof of such relationship could , however , only be obtained by the investigation of a large number of cases of the disease .
Other methods of inquiry , therefore , had to be undertaken .
These are dealt with in Section IV of this communication .
* Evidence of Geographical Distribution of Types of B. tetani .
When the first series of 14 toxic cultures was under examination , fighting was especially heavy in the northern portion of the British front ; and it was during this period that Type II bacilli were recovered with the greatest frequency .
With the later fighting on the Amienois Sector , Types I and III predominated .
But shortly before the cessation of hostilities , when severe fighting again occurred in the northern area , the number of Type II infections again increased .
These later cases are not included in the series dealt with in this communication , as full details concerning them were not available at the time of writing .
Section II .
Mechanism of Infection Tetanus .
In investigating this question , the following points were noted:\#151 ; ( a ) Bacilli or spores deprived of their growth products by washing , or by washing and heating combined , failed to produce the disease in susceptible animals , even when injected in very large numbers\#151 ; 2000 million in the case of guinea-pigs and 200 million in the case of mice .
( b)Tetanus toxin , when injected into rats in a sub-lethal dose , together with washed tetanus bacilli , fails to induce the growth of the organism .
The aggressive qualities , therefore , of tetanus toxin , as ordinarily prepared , are not marked .
In this respect the pathogenesis of tetanus differs considerably from that of gas gangrene .
( c ) When the toxin of B. Welchii is inoculated into animals in much less than the lethal dose , together with the spores of B. tetani , it does not determine the development of these spores , and therefore the onset of tetanus .
The same may be said with regard to the toxin of Vibrion septique , but the results are not so constant .
Serum which is anti-toxic to the products of B. Welchii will , in such circumstances , prevent the development of tetanus infection\#151 ; if used sufficiently soon after the administration of the infecting inoculum .
( ft ) Somewhat unexpected results were obtained when chemical irritants 536 Major W. J. Tulloch .
Serological Types of B. tetani were used to produce the necessary local tissue debilitation required to set up tetanus infection .
The chemicals used were\#151 ; ( 1 ) lactic acid ; ( 2 ) trimethylamine ; ( 3 ) saponine ; ( 4 ) calcium chloride .
( 1 ) Lactic Acid.\#151 ; This gave very uncertain results .
( 2 ) Trimethylamine.\#151 ; In certain concentrations this reagent , together with the spores of B. tetani , not infrequently sets up infection in guinea-pigs , but seldom does so in mice .
It was found that , in mice , the formation of a large eschar resulted from the injection of this reagent in sufficient concentration , together with 200 million tetanus spores , without , however , inducing tetanus , although the eschar ultimately separated from the surrounding tissue .
( 3 ) Saponine.\#151 ; This reagent , injected in certain concentrations together with spores , invariably leads to fatal infection in guinea-pigs .
In mice , on the contrary , it fails to set up infection .
( 4 ) Calcium Chloride.\#151 ; At the suggestion of Capt. W. E. Bullock , R.A.M.C. , attempts were made to study the influence of CaCl2 as an infection initiator in tetanus .
Notwithstanding the fact that CaCl2 leads to a much less obvious disturbance than does , for example , trimethylamine , nevertheless it invariably induces the development of B. tetani when injected along with spores .
These observations indicate that the precise quality of the local " debility " at the nidus of infection is a factor of great importance in the development of B. tetani in the tissues .
( i e ) Experiments were , therefore , set up to determine the relative importance of ^ie degree of tissue debilitation on the one hand , and of the number of spores inoculated on the other , as factors in the causation of tetanus .
This inquiry showed definitely that , in experimental animals at least , the degree of tissue debilitation is of much greater significance than is the number of spores inoculated .
Some of these experiments were extremely interesting .
Eor instance , when an insufficient degree of local disturbance was produced , typical local tetanus , due to infection , was observed in certain of the animals ( guinea-pigs were used in this series of observations ) .
From this they recovered .
Similar cases of local tetanus in experimental animals were also noted , even when the degree of tissue debilitation was relatively great , provided that the animals had been passively immunised with A.T.S. before or soon after inoculation with the " spore debilitant " mixture .
( / ) The importance of the symbiotic factor\#151 ; influence of the products of B. Welchii , etc.\#151 ; in the initiation of tetanus infection naturally led to the question as to whether the infective capacity , or the toxogenicity , might not Wounds of Men who received Prophylactic Inoculation .
537 be reduced by the presence of certain organisms , just as it was enhanced by that of others .
This was found actually to be the case .
Certain mixed cultures obtained from wounds proved to be non-toxic , although they contained organisms having the morphological characters of tetani and which agglutinated with the Type sera .
That these organisms were not deficient in toxogenic capacity was shown by injecting washed spores obtained from the cultures into animals , along with a tissue debilitant .
When this was done , tetanus developed .
Further , by growing one of the stock toxic cultures of B. tetani in presence of these mixed growths , the toxogenic capacity of the stock culture was greatly reduced .
It has not yet been determined what particular organism or combination of organisms leads to this depression of pathogenicity .
Neither can it be stated whether it is the mechanism of infedivity or that of toxogenicity which is thus depressed , although presumably it is the latter .
Section III .
Investigation of Serum Prophylaxis in Experimental Animals from the Standpoint of Infection .
The observations dealt with in Section II indicated a method of procedure whereby research could be applied to investigate immunity to infection which might 'be conferred by the administration of anti-toxin .
The inquiry brought out the following facts:\#151 ; ( 1 ) In experimental animals\#151 ; guinea-pigs , rats , and mice\#151 ; the prophylactic administration of anti-toxin failed to prevent the development of infection if the tissue debilitation at the site of inoculation exceeded a certain degree .
This was the case even if the dose of anti-toxin corresponded weight for weight to as much as 40,000 unit3 for a man of 60 kilos .
( 2 ) Using guinea-pigs , it was found , that by increasing the unitage of antitoxin administered prophylactically , the incubation period of the infection could be lengthened and the severity of the disease lessened .
The quantities of anti-toxin used were 10 , 20 and 30 units for animals of 250 grm. weight , giving a weight for weight ratio for man of 2400 , 4800 , and 7200 units .
Saponine was the debilitant used , as it could be easily standardised by physical methods .
Section IV .
Inquiry as to whether\#151 ; ( a ) Monotypical Anti-toxin exhibits Specific Anti-infective Properties .
( b ) Inoculations of Cultures of B. tetani give rise to Anti-bacterial Bodies Specific to the Type of Organism used .
( a ) From this investigation it appeared that a monotypical anti-toxin was equally active in neutralising the toxin of any or all types of B. tetani .
Some 538 Major W. J. Tulloch .
Serological Types of B. tetani in -experiments suggested , on the contrary , that monotypical anti-toxic sera may , under certain circumstances , exhibit anti-infective properties in relation to the Types .
The evidence of such relationship is so far only suggestive , and the statement is made with reserve .
( / \gt ; ) Experiments were then undertaken to determine whether any improvement in prophylaxis might be looked for from the employment of antibacterial sera .
This investigation is still proceeding , but the following points appear to be definitely settled from the work already completed .
( 1 ) Anti-bacterial sera , the anti-toxin content of which is negligible or nil , do not prevent infection .
( 2 ) Evidence is so far lacking that anti-bacterial sera afford more adequate protection against infection than do pure anti-toxic sera of the same given anti-toxin content .
( 3 ) The work done suggests that monotypical anti-bacterial sera may .exhibit specific anti-infective properties in relation to Type .
The results also suggest that this specificity is more marked in the case of anti-bacterial sera than in the case of anti-toxic sera .
The results are , however , equivocal , and this question must remain undecided until anti-bacterial sera are available in larger quantities than is possible when laboratory animals are used for serum production .
( 4 ) Experiments in vitro showed definitely that specific anti-bacterial immune bodies , other than agglutinins , could be produced by the inoculation .of whole cultures of B. tetani .
For technical reasons the anti-body studied was the " opsonin .
" The following facts were noted :\#151 ; ( a ) The opsonic activity of anti-toxic sera in the presence of whole culture is but slight .
( b ) The opsonic activity of sera prepared by inoculation of washed is slight , though the agglutinin titre may be high .
( c ) The opsonic activity of sera prepared by the inoculation of whole culture is marked , and , furthermore , it is specific ; but group relationship between the Types was noted in making these opsonic tests.* ( d ) From the opsonic tests , it appeared that unfiltered cultures of B. tetani contain at least 3 antigens :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Spasm-producing toxin , which is filtrable , relatively stable , and nonspecific .
( 2 ) Bacillary substance , which is definitely specific to the Type , and stimulates production of agglutinins .
( 3 ) An anti-phagocytic substance ( ?
leucotoxin ) , relatively specific to each Type .
This antigen is either unstable or not filtrable .
* The technique used in carrying out these tests was the dilution method of Neufeld .
Wounds of Men who received Prophylactic Inoculation .
539 Addendum .
An Inquiry into Surgical Procedures in Relation to Degree and Persistence of Anaerobic Infections of Wounds .
This inquiry , which was carried out by Miss Cayley , indicated that\#151 ; ( a ) No one of the antiseptics under investigation could be recommended as being of special value in the elimination of anaerobic infection .
( b ) Anaerobic bacilli , even those of pathogenic significance , may persist in wounds until the completion of the process of repair .
( c ) The degree of anaerobic infection of wounds that have been excised is , on the whole , less than in those that have not been so treated .
Excision , then , while it does not eliminate infection , does so alter the condition of the wound that the harmful capacity of any anaerobes present is much reduced .
( d ) In examining in vitro the influence of Brilliant Green and other aniline dyes on the growth of anaerobes , it was found that their activity was much reduced when cultures were made in Tarozzi tubes ( 4 ) .
This reduction of activity was more marked than that caused by the presence of serum .
This observation has a direct bearing on the application of aniline antiseptics in surgical therapeutics .
Technique .
In making the investigation summarised in Section I , the following technique was elaborated :\#151 ; .
The swabs were taken from the deeper parts of the wounds as far as possible ; then emulsified in 3 cub. centim. of sterile saline .
Of this , I cub. centim. was inoculated into ordinary meat-water medium\#151 ; Culture A. This culture gave an index of the non-sporing organisms present .
The remainder\#151 ; 2 cub. centim.\#151 ; was heated to 80 ' C. for 10-15 minutes , or to 60 ' for 30-40 minutes .
Of this , 1 cub. centim. was inoculated into a tube of meat-water medium and incubated anaerobically\#151 ; Culture B. This gave an index of the sporing anaerobes present .
The 1 cub. centim. which remained was inoculated into a tube of " selective " medium\#151 ; designed to give an overwhelming growth of end-sporing bacilli\#151 ; Culture C. The " selective " enriching medium was prepared as follows :\#151 ; Take 1 lb. of chopped raw meat , add 1 litre of tap-water , and boil for 30 minutes in a water-bath .
Cool to 45 ' C. , make slightly alkaline to litmus , and add trypsin as for the preparation of Douglas ' broth .
Then incubate in an open vessel for four to five days at 37 ' C. , allowing the material to undergo natural putrefaction .
Filter the putrescent material so obtained through filter paper ; neutralise to phenolphthalein at room-temperature .
Prepare a conical sterile filter flask containing a layer of liquid 540 Major W. J. Tulloch .
Serological Types of B. tetani paraffin , sufficient to cover completely the bottom of a flask to a depth of roughly 1/ 8 inch , together with 3 grm. of sodium formate , dissolved in 10 cub. centim. of distilled water per litre of medium .
The medium is then filtered , first through a Berkfeld and then through a Boulton candle , into the sterilised flask .
The flask should be provided with a hooded delivery tube , so that the medium may be distributed as required .
The medium can be kept in cold storage in the sterile flask , and keeps fairly well\#151 ; about three weeks .
It should never be sterilised by heat .
Before use , the sterility of the medium should be tested by inoculating quantities from 5 cub. centim. to 01 cub. centim. into tubes of meat-water medium and incubated anaerobically for at least seven days .
If the medium is required for cultures that may ultimately be used for animal inoculation , it should be tested by the vivo method , to ensure that the medium is in itself non-toxic .
Before use , fresh sterile kidney is added to the medium in the proportion of roughly 1/ 16 part of a kidney to 5 cub. centim. of the medium .
The tubes to which the kidney has been added should be used within three days .
Prepared thus , the medium inhibits the growth of B. but allows of the growth of B. tetani , other atoxic round end-sporing , and certain oval end-sporing bacilli .
Latterly , in place of using meat-water tubes for cultures A and B , the following medium has been employed :\#151 ; Chop up finely the flepli of one rabbit , add 1 litre of tap-water and 5 grm. of sodium carbonate , and allow the mixture to decompose at 37 ' C. for roughly 16 hours .
Then render the mixture slightly alkaline to litmus , and add 2 per cent , of trypsin .
Incubate for a further period of 16-24 hours at 37 ' C. The material is then filtered through filter paper , rendered slightly acid , boiled to coagulate proteins , filtered again and neutralised .
Before neutralising at room-temperature , the samples of medium to be tested should be boiled and rapidly cooled .
The mean of two titrations with ( 1 ) phenophthalein and ( 2 ) a-naphthol-phthalein is taken , and the requisite amount of sodium hydrate added to the bulk of the medium .
Boil again and finally filter .
Occasionally it may be necessary to pass the product through a Boulton candle to remove any dead organisms that might be present .
The medium may then be tubed and autoclaved , or autoclaved in bulk and kept in cold storage .
Before use , 1/ 16 part of a fresh sterile rabbit kidney should be added to each tube of 5 cub. centim. Tubes which have been autoclaved and stored should be boiled for 30 minutes and rapidly cooled before the kidney is added , and should be used as soon Wounds of Men who received Prophylactic Inoculation .
541 as possible after the addition of the kidney .
This medium gives very heavy growths of B. tetani , and appears to have some slight selective properties .
Manipulation Routine of the Cultures .
Tubes A , B and C were examined at 2-day intervals .
When tube C showed a growth consisting mainly of end-sporing bacilli , the culture was filtered through a small piece of cotton wool to remove the kidney and sediment , and then centrifuged , emulsified in saline , and tested by the agglutination technique .
Not infrequently culture C failed to show growth , although round end-sporing bacilli might ultimately develop in tubes A or B. In such cases A or B were heated 60 ' C. for 45 minutes and sub-cultures made into the " selective " medium .
In this way B. tetani was obtained from a number of cultures which failed to show any growth when inoculated directly from the swab into the " selective " medium .
The technique of the agglutination test and the preparation of agglutinating sera are fully described in previous publications dealing with the serological differentiation of B. tetani ( 1 and 2 ) .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
( 1 ) Tulloch , ' Roy .
Soc. Proo .
, ' B , vol. 90 , pp. 145-158 .
{ 2 ) Tulloch , 'Journal of R.A.M.C. , ' Dec. , 1917 , p. 1 .
( 3 ) Barber , 'Philippine Journ. of Science , ' Med. Section B , August , 1914 , vol. 2 , p. 307 .
( 4 ) Tarozzi , ' Cent. f. Bact .
, ' Orig .
, 1905 , vol. 38 , p. 619 .

