I. " Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun."-No .
V. By J. NORMAN LOCKYER , F..S .
Received July 8 , 1869 .
Since the date of my last communication under the above title the weather has , if possible , been worse for telescopic work than during the winter and spring ; my opportunities of observation , therefore , have been very limited : still the sun has occasionally been in such a disturbed state , and our atmosphere has at times been so pure , that several new facts of importance have come out .
I will state them here as briefly as possible , reserving a discussion of them and my detailed observations for a future occasion .
I. The extreme rates of movement in the chromosphere observed up to the present time are : Yertical movement ... ... ... . .
40 miles a second Horizontal or cyclonic movement .
120 , , II .
I have carefully observed the chromosphere when spots have been near the limb .
The spots have sometimes been accompanied by prominences , at other times they have not been so accompanied .
Such observations show that we may have spots visible without prominences in the same region , and prominences without spots ; but I do not say that a spot is not accompanied by a prominence at some stage of its life , or that it does not result from some action which , in the majority of cases , is accompanied by a prominence .
III .
At times , when a prominence is seen bright on the sun itself , the bright F line varies considerably , both in thickness and brilliancy , within the thickness of the dark line .
The appearances presented are exactly as if we were looking at the prominences through a grating .
IV .
Bright prominences , when seen above spots on the disk , if built up of other substances besides hydrogen , are indicated by the bright lines of those substances in addition to the lines of hydrogen .
The bright lines are then seen very thin , situated centrally ( or nearly so ) on the broad absorption-bands caused by the underlying less-luminous vapours of the same substances .
V. I have at last detected an absorption-line corresponding to the orange line in the chromosphere .
Father Secchi states* that there is a line corresponding to it much brighter than the rest of the spectrum .
My observation would seem to indicate that he has observed a bright line less refrangible than the one in question , which bright line is at times excessively brilliant .
It requires absolutely perfect atmospheric conditions to see it in the ordinary solar spectrum .
It is best seen in a spot-spectrum when the spot is partially covered by a bright prominence .
VI .
In the neighbourhood of spots the F bright line is sometimes observed considerably widened out in several places , as if the spectroscope were analyzing injections of hydrogen at great pressure in very limited regions into the chromosphere .
VII .
The brilliancy of the bright lines visible in the ordinary solar spectrum is extremely variable .
One of them , at 1871 5 , and another , at 1529'5 of Kirchhoff 's scale , I have detected in the chromosphere at the same time that they were brilliant in the ordinary solar spectrum .
VIII .
Alterations of wave-length have been detected in the sodium- , magnesium- , and iron-lines in a spot-spectrum .
In the case of the last substance , the lines in which the alteration was detected were not those observed when iron ( if we accept them to be due to iron alone ) is injected into the chromosphere .
IX .
When the chromosphere is observed with a tangential slit , the F bright line close to the sun 's limb shows traces of absorption , which gradually diminish as the higher strata of the chromosphere are brought on to the slit , until the absorption-line finally thins out and entirely disappears .
T'he lines of other substances thus observed do not show this absorption .
X. During the most recent observations I have been able to detect traces of magnesium and iron in nearly all solar latitudes in the chromosphere .
If this be not merely the result of the good definition lately , it would indicate an increased general photospheric disturbance as the maximum sun* Comptes Rendus , 1869 , V sem .
p. 358 .
spot period is approached .
Moreover I suspect that the chromosphere has lost somewhat of its height .
I append a list of the bright lines , the positions of which in the chromosphere I have determined absolutely , with the dates of discovery , remarking that in the case of C and F my observations were anticipated by M. Janssen : Uydrogen .
C. October 20 , 1868 .
F. October 20 , 1868 .
near D. October 20 , 1868* .
near G. December 22 , 1868 .
h. March 14 , 1869 .
Sodium .
D. February 28 , 1869 .
Barium .
1989'5t .
March 14 , 1869 .
2031-2 .
July 5 , 1869 .
Magnesium and included line .
bl February 21 , 1869 .
br Other Lines .
Iron ... ... 1474 .
June 6 , 1869 . ? ?
1515-5 .
June 6 , 1869 .
Bright line 1529-5 .
July 5 , 1869 . ? ?
1567'5 .
March 6 , 1869 ? ?
1613-8 .
June 6 .
Iron ... . .
186 70 .
June 26 .
Bright line 1871-5 .
, , Iron ... . .
2001-5 .
, 2003'4 .
, ?
band or line near black 20540 July 5 .
line , very delicate ... .
JI have seen other lines besides these at different times ; but I do not include them , as their positions have not been determined absolutely .
I refrain from dwelling on this list at present , except to point out that , taking iron as an instance , and assuming that the iron-lines mapped by Angstriom and Kirchhoff are due to iron only , I have only been able , up to the present time , to detect 3 lines out of the total number ( 460 ) in the spectrum of the lower regions of the chromosphere , -a fact full of promise as regards the possible results of future laboratory work .
The same remark applies to magnesium and barium .
Dr. Frankland and myself have determined that the widening out of the sodium-line in the spectrutl of a spot which I pointed out in 1866 , and then stated to be possibly an evidence of greater absorption , indicates a greater absorption due to greater pressure .
The continuous widening out of the sodium-line in a spot must therefore be regarded as furnishing an additional argument ( if one were now needed ) in favour of the theory of the physical constitution of the sun first put forward by Dr. Frankland and myself-namely , that the chromosphere and the photosphere form the true atmosphere of the sun , and that under ordinary circumstances the absorption is continuous from the top of the chromosphere to the bottom of the photosphere , at whatever depth from the bottom of the spot that bottom may be assumed to be .
This theory was based upon all our observations made from 1866 up to the time at which it was communicated to the Royal Society and the Paris Academy of Sciences , and has been strengthened by all our subsequent work ; but several announcements made by Father Secchi to the Paris Academy of Sciences and other learned bodies are so opposed to it , and differ so much from my own observations , that it is necessary that I should refer to them , and give my reasons for still thinking that the theory above referred to is not in disaccord with facts .
At the same time I must state that Father Secchi does not combat this theory ; indeed it is not to be gathered from any of his communications that he has seen any of the papers communicated by myself to the Royal Society .
Father Secchi states that the chromosphere is often separated from the photosphere , and that between the chromosphere and the photosphere there exists a stratum giving a continuous spectrum , which he considers to be the base of the solar atmosphere , and in which he thinks that the inversion of the spectrum takes place .
With regard to the first assertion , I may first state that all the observations I have made have led me to a contrary conclusion .
Secondly , in an instrument of comparatively small dispersive power , such as that employed by Father Secchi , in which the widening out of the F line at the base of the chromosphere is not clearly indicated , it is almost impossible to determine , by means of the spectroscope , whether the chromosphere rests on the sun or not , as the chromosphere is an envelope and we are not dealing merely with a section .
But an instrument of great dispersive power can at once settle the question ; for since the F line widens out with pressure , and as the pressure increases as the sun is approached , the continuous curvature of the F line must indicate really the spectrum of a section ; and if the chromosphere were suspended merely at a certain height above the photosphere , we should not get a widening due to pressure : but we always do get such a widening .
Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun .
With regard to the second assertion , I would remark that if such a continuous-spectrum-giving envelope existed , I entirely fail to see how it could be regarded as a region of selective absorption .
Secondly , my observations have indicated no such stratum , although injections of sodium , magnesium , &amp;c. into the chromosphere not exceeding the limit of the sun 's limb by 2 " have been regularly observed for several months past .
To-day I have even detected a low level of barium in the chromosphere not 1 " high .
This indicates , I think , that my instrument is not lacking in delicacy ; and as I have never seen anything approaching to a continuous spectrum when my instrument has been in perfect adjustment , I am inclined to attribute the observation to some instrumental error .
Such a phenomenon might arise from a local injection of solid or liquid particles into the chromosphere , if such injection were possible .
But I have never seen such an injection .
If such an occurrence could be observed , it would at once settle that part of Dr. Frankland 's and my own theory , which regards the chromosphere as the last layer of the solar atmosphere ; and if it were possible to accept Father Secchi 's observation , the point would be settled in our favour .
The sodium experiments to which I have referred , however , and the widening out of the lines in the spot-spectra , clearly indicate , I think , that the base of the atmosphere is below the spot , and not above it .
I therefore cannot accept Father Secchi 's statement as being final against another part of the theory to which I have referred-a conclusion which Father Secchi himself seems to accept in other communications .
Father Secchi remarks also that the F line is produced by the absorption of other bodies besides hydrogen , because it never disappears .
This conclusion is also negatived by my observations ; for it has very often been observed to disappear altogether and to be replaced by a bright line .
At times , as I pointed out to the Royal Society some months ago , when a violent storm is going on accompanied by rapid elevations and depressions of the prominences , there is a black line on the less-refrangible side of the bright one ; but this is a phenomenon due to a change of wave-length caused by the rapid motion of the hydrogen .
With regard to the observation of spot-spectra , I find that every increase of dispersive power renders the phenomenon much more clear , and at the same time more simple .
The selective absorption I discovered in 1866 comes out in its most intense form , but without any of the more complicated accompaniments described by Father Secchi .
I find , however , that by using three prisms this complexity vanishes to a great extent .
We get portions of the spectrum here and there abnormally bright , which have given rise doubtless to some of the statements of the distinguished Roman observer ; but the bright lines , properly so-called , are as variable as they are in any other part of the disk , but not much more so .
I quite agree that the " interpretation " of sun-spot phenomena to which Father Secchi has referred % , * Comptes Rendus , 1869 , ir sem .
p. 764 .
which ascribes the appearances to anything but selective plus general absorption , is erroneous .
But as I was not aware that it had ever been propounded , I can only refer to my own prior papers in support of my assertion , and to Mr. Huggins 's indorsement of my observations , which were communicated to the Royal Society some three years ago .

