1878 .
] On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
Theory .
Agl Cal , H,0 . .
Experiment .
I. II .
53-89 52-63 5283 33-72 34-14 34*00 12-40 13-23 1317 This salt is completely dissociated by water , a few drops even being sufficient to separate the whole of the iodide of silver .
This reaction enabled me to analyse the salt with facility .
It was only necessary to add water to a known weight of the salt and filter .
The iodide of silver- may then be determined on the filter , and the calcium in the filtrate in the usual way by means of oxalate of ammonia .
The water I had to determine by difference , as the heat necessary to expel the water drove off at the same time some iodine from the iodide of calcium .
A known weight of the salt , dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid , did not lose weight when afterwards heated for some time at 100 ' Cent. It partially fuses at the temperature of boiling water .
Iodide of calcium forms several interesting double salts , which I am at present engaged in examining .
III .
" Further Note on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received January 7 , 1878 .
In the paper which was read on the 20th of December last , I stated that during some years past I had often recognised the existence of a force in the atmosphere , which seemed to exert a powerful influence on nuclei , in determining the sudden solidification of supersaturated saline solutions .
I had attempted to identify this force with evaporation , with desiccation , with crystallisation , with electricity , and with surface tension , and performed many experiments with this view , but without success .
I therefore determined to make daily observations on the action of oils , \amp ; c. , on these solutions , taking the typical one of sodic sulphate of a uniform strength ( 2 salt to 1 water ) , and to record the results from day to day , with especial reference to the state of the atmosphere .
These observations have now extended over three or four months with this general result , that with a southerly or westerly wind , the action of oils is to throw down the seven-atom salt at temperatures above that at which it is naturally formed .
The salt comes down on shaking the solution in the flask .
In dull and damp weather it falls in a powdery form ; in fine weather in crystals of the modified salt , and the powder previously formed in dull weather grows into well-shaped crystals .
Covered flasks with oil in contact with the solutions , have thus been kept for days and weeks together , and although repeatedly Mr. C. Tomlinson on [ Feb. 21 , shaken , the only effect was to increase the quantity of the modified salt , while the liquid portion remained supersaturated .
With a northerly !
or easterly wind the oil determined the sudden solidification of the salt either at once , or on shaking the flask , with the usual rise in temperature .
Daring the last three or four months , however , the occasions have been so rare on which the oils produced this last-named effect that , had I not had sufficient confidence in my published results , I should have been disposed to agree with other observers in the conclusion that oils have no nuclear action on these solutions .
But those rare occasions ( rare in consequence of the prevalence of southerly and westerly ] winds ) when the oils did act with effect , satisfied me that , whatever the force may be which enables the oils to act , it is a true cause , capable of being discovered by continuing the observations .
The contradictory nature of the results will be understood from one example .
On the 18th of December the wind , which had long been westerly and south-westerly , veered to the north-west , when I dropped castor-oil into three flasks , placed in the open air , and the solutions immediately solidified .
To meet the objection that an oil that has been exposed to the air always contains minute particles of sodic sulphate , or of a salt isomeric therewith , I rinsed out a clean bottle with hot water , filled it half-full of the same , and poured upon it a little castor-oil .
The cork , which had been kept in hot water , was then inserted , and the phial was repeatedly shaken , so that if any nuclear salt had been contained in the oil , it must have gone into solution , in which state , as I have already shown , * it is not nuclear .
When the phial was cold , some of the washed oil was taken up with a pipette ( previously kept in water ) , and dropped into six flasks , when the solutions all became solid .
On the next day , and the day after , the wind was westerly and south-westerly with a damp fog .
The experiment was repeated exactly as on the day before , but now the oil no longer produced solidification of the salt ; it only threw down a little seven-atom salt when the flasks were shaken .
In reviewing this long series of experiments , in connection also with the singular activity of the drops of the solution exposed during the periods of bright weather last summer , when the wind was often easterly , I was led to suspect that ozone was the force I had so long been in search of .
Accordingly a few days ago , when a damp fog prevailed , and the oils , \amp ; c. , were singularly inert , I put a bit of scraped phosphorus into a wet tube , and then poured in some oil of cajuput .
In the course of a few hours the oil became as singularly active as it had before been inert .
The solutions immediately became solid as soon as a drop of the phosphorised oil touched the surface , or on gently shaking * " Chemical News , " 4th February , 1870 .
1878 .
] Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
123 the flask .
On the 4th and 5th of January the air was still , hut dark with a wet fog , accompanied now and then by a small rain , a state of weather which experience had shown to be hopeless as to any nuclear action on the part of the oils ; but on these days drops of phosphorised oil of cajuput , castor-oil , and benzole produced the immediate solidification of solutions of sodic sulphate and of alum .
I may also add that a minute bit of phosphorus was eminently nuclear , and also newly prepared phosphoric acid , whether dry or in aqueous solution .
( Addendum .
) Received January 22 , 1878 .
In the series of observations referred to in the above note , the nucleus chiefly employed was oil of cajuput , with occasional reference to castor-oil and benzole .
The reason why these three were selected was that after using them , the flasks could be easily cleaned by means of spirits of wine , preparatory to a fresh charge .
Another reason was that , by working chiefly with one oil and with solutions of uniform strength , the results were more likely to be comparable than if a number of oils and solutions of different degrees of strength were used .
The necessity for clean flasks , as insisted on in my former papers , was abundantly confirmed , especially on days when the wind was northerly and northeasterly .
On such occasions , if any traces of the oil used in previous experiments remained in the flasks , the solutions would often solidify in cooling , or on being carried from room to room , although the mouths of the flasks were covered with paper caps or small beakers .
The fla.sks chiefly used have oval bulbs of the capacity of I4 oz. , with stems 3 inches in length and about S inch in diameter .
Each bulb was filled about half with the filtered solution by means of a small funnel with a long stem , and this was dipped into water after each charge , so as not to soil the neck of the next flask .
Each flask was then reboiled until steam issued from the neck , when it was removed from the lamp , its cover was put on , and it was then set upright in a rack to cool .
These narrow-necked flasks , if clean , retain the solutions admirably ; they may even be left uncovered during many hours , and even days , especially if the necks are inclined towards their support .
An uncovered flask has thus remained a fortnight without change .
Several eminent observers have stated with great persistency that oils have no nuclear action on supersaturated saline solutions ; or if they appear to be active , their activity is due to minute particles of the salt in the air or in the oils themselves .
In order to get rid of these supposed nuclear particles , I distilled a number of active essential oils , and found the distillates to be inactive , thus apparently justifying the objection referred to .
I also found that ether , methylated spirits of wine , wood spirit , naphtha , benzole , and a few other liquids , were Mr. C. Tomlinson on [ Feb. 21 , active on certain days and inactive on others ; that when these were active their fresh distillates were not , or at least that they required time in order to become nuclear .
When first added to the solution , the flask could be shaken , and a good deal of the modified salt would be thrown down , and then perhaps after a half-an-hour or an hour 's repose the solutions would become solid , although the flasks were covered again after the drops had been added to the solutions .
I also found that different specimens of the same oil , \amp ; c. , in separate bottles , sometimes behaved differently on the same day , and even that an active essential oil might be made inactive simply by filtering .
But no sooner was I led to the conclusion that ozone , or an oxidised condition , has a powerful influence on the nuclear action of oils , \amp ; c.J than the reas'on for the various contradictory results became plain to me .
Supposing that other observers worked with what would appear to be the best , that is , with pure materials ( Lowel , for example* recrystallised his sodic sulphate , and used distilled water for his solutions ) , the fixed oils used by them would probably be recently refined and the essential oils redistilled .
Hence it is now apparent to me how it was that they obtained negative results , while the very precautions against the entrance of nuclei , as taken by M. Viollette and Mr. Liver-sidge , were such as to deprive the oil of nuclear action , by cutting off the influence of the external air.* In order to illustrate this influence more fully , I will describe a few out of a large number of experiments that I have recently made .
An oil of turpentine , that had stood on my shelf during many years , was found to be powerfully active .
A portion of it was redistilled , and the distillate had no action in solidifying the solution of sodic sulphate ( 2 to 1 ) , although the flask was repeatedly shaken during the day."f A portion of the distillate , contained in a dropping-tube , was taken into the open air and allowed to fall drop by drop into a small clean beaker .
The oil immediately became active , several of the last-named solutions becoming solid as soon as the oil reached the surface , or on gently shaking the flask .
But in such a case , as it has been affirmed over and over again , the * Mr. Liversidge ( " Proo .
Roy .
Soc. , " xx , 427 ) took up oil in a dropping-tube , and then closed its upper opening , and passing the tube through a plug fitted it tightly into the neck of the flask containing the supersaturated solution .
After waiting an hour or two , lest any nuclear particles should have entered the flask , he i allowed a drop of oil to fall upon the solution .
Under such conditions he found the oil to be inactive .
Using the same method , I found that the phosphorised oil of cajuput , an oxidised oil of turpentine , ether , and absolute alcohol were active : 1 so also was glacial acetic acid , but not so promptly as the others .
t 8th February .
I have since noticed that during a north or a north-east wind , 1 the distillate of oil of turpentine may become nuclear while being transferred from I the condenser to the dropping-tube .
In some cases hydric peroxide may be the 1 force that confers the nuclear action .
1878 .
] Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
125 oil in falling through the air , must have caught up particles of sodic sulphate , and these , and not the oil , formed the true nucleus .
To meet this objection , I took a portion of the same solution , contained in a wide-necked flask , to the same spot in the open air of my garden , and with a clean dropping-tube , just taken out of water , raised a quantity of the supersaturated solution , and allowed it to fall through the air drop by drop into the flask .
This was done repeatedly , a southeasterly wind blowing gently at the time , but the solution remained unchanged .
An old oil of lavender ( marked " Mitcham " ) was active .
It was redistilled and treated as in the preceding case , with the same results .
Methylated spirits of wine were inactive during a south wind , but soon became active on being allowed to drop through the air in my garden .
Benzole became similarly active , but not quite so readily .
An old paraffin oil ( marked " Belmontine " ) was active .
Its distillate was inactive , but on adding to it a few drops of ozonised water , it became active .
A solution of sodic sulphate , to which some drops of oil of cajuput had been added the day before , did not solidify , although the solution had been repeatedly shaken in the flask .
A few drops of ozonised water were added , and the solution became solid on gently sha-king the flask .
Oil of sweet almonds was inactive ; but on being dropped through the outer air , it became active .
About twenty old essential oils were all powerfully active .
A piece of apple , cut from the centre of the fruit , was inactive ; several pieces , similarly cut and exposed to the air until they had become brown , were active .
Bits of sponge , which were described in my former paper as being inactive , were found to be active during a northerly and north-easterly wind .
The same remark applies to charcoal .
These experiments may suffice to show what is really the function of the air with respect to nuclei , and to account for and bring into harmony with a general principle a large amount of contradictory evidence on the part of many observers , which , during three-quarters of a century has disturbed this branch of physico-chemical science .
Why the oils , \amp ; c. , in their oxidised condition are nuclear , and in their pure condition not , is a question which I am now endeavouring to answer .

