]\gt ; absence of free hydrochloric acid in the stomach contents in cancer of that organ , so only a few of the prominent results recorded will be noticed as an introduction to the observations which form the subject of this communication .
In his original paper , von den Velden used methyl-violet as an indicator for free hydrochloric acid , and examined cases of dilatation of the stomach , due on the one hand to stenosis of the pyloric ope1lin caused by carcinomatous rowth , and on the other to various other causes .
He found in ten cases of dilatation which were not due to carcinoma that free hydrochloric acid was always present , while in eight cases of cancer of the pylorus , free hydrochloric acid was uniformly absent , and he suggested such testing as a diagnostic sign for cancer of the stomach .
C. A. Ewald raised objections to methyl-violet as not being a sufficiently sensitive indicator for free hydrochloric acid , and stated that in 23 cases of 'Deutsches Archiv .
klin .
Medicin , ' vol. 23 , 1879 , p. 31 .
'Zeitsch . .
klin .
Medicin , ' vol. 1 , 1880 , p. 619 .
undoubted malignant disease .
It is now well established that free hdrochl.ic acid is not absent in every case of cancer of the stomach , and also that it may be absent in other 1 hich ibsent iarge , that , taken ionjunction wther signsConditions t it is a valuable aid in cases of doubtful nature .
Thus Osler*records that in 94 cases in which the stomach contents were examined , in 84 free hydrochloric acid was absent ; and .
Jaksch in 17 cases found free hydrochloric acid , either absent , or only present in traces , in 14 cases .
The variations in results obtained by the earlier observers are due in part to the employment of different indicators of varying degrees of delicacy , and partly to the fact that the attention of these observers was turned almost wholly upon entire of the free acid as a diagnostic sign , so that little care was given to quantitative determinations of the variations in amount of the acid , or the relationship of this to the disease , which are far more important points .
If with the improved means for testing the matter both qualitatively and quantitatively now at our disposal , the extensive series of observations made by earlier workers were now repeated , it would probably be found , on the one hand , that in the long eries of cases where the free acid was always found to be absent , there were in a certain number of cases traces present which were missed by the methods employed , and on the other hand , that in those series where in the majority of cases free hydrochloric acid was found to be the tests were iven by larger amounts of organic acid , or the positive 'Principles and Practice of Medicine , ' 3rd edition , p. 491 .
sche Diagnostik innerer Krankheiten , ' Auflage , p. 173 .
1905 .
] in Contents in Malignant Disease of Organs .
141 results were due to minimal amounts of free hydrochloric acid which were not determined quantitatively , and the small amount of free hydrochloric acid present was almost as good an indication of cancer as its entire absence .
The entire absence of free hydrochloric acid is not in the nature of things to [ be expected in every case , and the amount of such acid , as shown by quantitative tests , is the proper subject of enquiry both from the point of view of diagnosis and in yard to its relationship to the diseased condition itself .
Before coming to the proper subject of this paper , a little may be said with regard to the ) sence or diminution of the free hydrochloric acid in other forms of disease than cancer of the stomach .
With the exception of atrophy of the gastric mucosa , where the astric secretion and naturally the free acid is absent , there is no other diseased condition of the stomach in which the acid is absent in such a high percentage of cases as in cancer .
Morner*found in 12 cases of chronic that free hydrochloric acid was absent in two , and varied in amount in the other 10 to per cent. The free hydrochloric acid appears to be present in normal amount in phthisis , except in the last of the disease .
It is often bsent in acute infectious diseases , but much less commonly in other febrile conditions .
Other conditions in which absence has been noted are chronic kidney disease , anaemia , neurasthenia , hysteria , tabes , Addison 's disease .
It is also absent in prolonged inanition , so that in all cases the condition of the patient 's appetite should be noted in applying tests for free hydrochloric acid .
Returning to diseases of the stomach in which the free hydrochloric acid is absent or greatly reduced in quantity , it may be stated that the conditions in addition to carcinoma in which the acid fails are those of atrophy of the gastric mucous membrane and chronic gastritis .
Now , in such cases , there is a very obvious and long continued perversion of the activity of the secreting cells , and , hence , it is not difficult to understand that continued local irritation on the one hand , or atrophy of the cells on the other , can lead to a suppression of the acid secreting function .
But in cancer of the stomach the absence of free hydrochloric acid may be noted before the gastritis becomes chronic , and in cases where gastritis is ' Upsala Lakareforenings ' vol. 24 , 1889 , p. 483 ; Maly 's berichte .
Fort .
der Thierchemie , ' vol. 19 .
1890 , p. 253 .
Immermann , ' Beilage zu Centralblatt .
klin .
Medicin , ' vol. 10 , 1889 , p. 21 .
Gluzinski , ' Deutsches Archiv .
klin .
Medicin , ' vol. 42 , 1888 , p. 481 .
Such a view , if it could be substantiated expel.imentally , would naturally give a new importance and a different aspect to what is already one of the most important experimental facts known about The testing of this view was the object set forth in the observationfi recorded below , which have that the absence of free acid in of the is ?
due to local action in that organ , for hydrochloric acid is absent or jduced gin whatever may be situation in the body of th malignant It follows that the absence of the acid is due to some change in the blood , which change may either be a common cause of the growth and the absence of the acid , or may be the result of the growth and the cause of the absence of the acid .
The significance of this fact will be reverted S after the results of the observations have been described .
It is somewhat remarkable that no systematic observations have hitherto been made upon the condition of the gastric juice with regard to hydrochloric acid in malignant disease in other situations than the stomach , or .
) : 1905 .
] in Gastric ; in of if such observations have been made that they have excited so little attention.iterature oarcinoma inormous tuchobservations , though nown tready , butforgotten , xcuse tbservationssuch search ahave boexist t given below .
* On placing the view outlined above before my colleague Dr. Alexander , he agreed to superintend the clinical side of the work .
The cases have been collected , under Dr. Alexander 's directions , the administration of the test meals superintended , and the astric contents obtained by Mr. Kelly .
The chemical analyses have been carried out in the bio-chemical laboratory of the university by Mr. Kelly , Mr. Roaf , and myself .
I desire to express my thanks to my co-workers in the research , whose enelgetic co-operation has rendered the task of combining clinical and laboratory work an easy one , and also to those ians and surgeons in Liverpool who have assisted us with further clinical material .
Methods of The test meal given in each case was that recommended by vald of a of tea without sugar or milk , and a round of dry toast .
Except in Case IX , where the toast could not be taken on account of the situation of the growth , and the test meal was a pint of gruel and two pints When series of observations had beeu nearly completed , in a search through the literature in Maly 's ' Jahresberichte uber die Fortschritte der Thierchemie ' ( from which most of the quotations given in this paper have been cited on account of the inaccessibility to me at present of the original papers ) , I came upon a remarkable footnote by Maly to an abstract of the paper by Kredel , quoted above .
The note in vol. 14 , p. 288 , and is as follows:\mdash ; " " The fact that the portion of the mucosa of the stomach still intact secrctes no hydrochloric acid is impossible to understand .
If the itself does not secrete an alkaline or neutralizing secretion , which ought to be observable in such new growths other situations , a plasma richer in alkali must be considered as probable in cases of carcinoma .
So that a failing acid formation may represent not much a cousequence as a or accompanying condition of cancer .
Systematic investigation of urine , blood-serum , etc. , in carcinomatous cases in regard to the alkali and acid relationships compared with those of normal individuals are accordingly much to be desired It is curious that spite of this view , which is practically the same as that which independently suggested the observations recorded in the present paper , no experiments were made in the direction suggested by such a distinguished physiological chemist as Maly , and that the matter should have been allowed to remain dormant for so many years .
food , ests icases wommenced aered btomach tithdrawn after o in each case , in the table .
afterwards .
The quantitative volumetric testing was performed by neutralising with decinormal caustic soda solution , with the indicator mentioned in each case .
For convenience of comparison the results are expressed in terms of the equivalent amounts of hydrochloric acid .
But it must , of course , be understood that in the case of the phenol-phthalein , and di-methyl-amido-azoindicators , the figures do not represent actual free hydrochloric acid , but acidity expressed as the equivalent amount supposing it were all hydrochloric acid .
( a ) Total Acidity .
\mdash ; This was determined in the usual way by titration of 10 of the gastric contents with phenol-phthalein as indicator .
The amount so obtained gives the total acidity due to hydrochloric acid ( when present ) , organic aoids , and salts ( such as acid phosphates ) .
( b ) Acidity to\ldquo ; nethyl \ldquo ; :\mdash ; This indicator does not give as originally supposed by its oducer ( Topfer ) , *the free hydrochloric acid alone , but in lition , any acidity due to force , strong organic acids , such as acetic , lactic , and butyric .
Accordingly , this figure is usually higher than that for the free hydrochloric acid given by the other methods described below , and the fres hydrochloric acid may safely be taken as below the value of this reading .
When the organic acids are low in value it gives an approximation to the free hydrochloric acid , and as it is often used as a clinical method , it is here given for purposes of comparison .
Acidity to eagent ( Phloroglucin and Vanillin ) have found this reagent most reliahle , both as a qualitative and a quantitative test .
We have convinced ourselves by experiment that the test unmistakably shows 1 part of free hydrochloric acid in 30,000 parts by volume , and can be relied upon for accurate results in rapid clinical work where quantitative results are desired , as they always should be .
The use of the Gunzburg reagent , in coniunction with titration with deci-normal alkali , lvhich was first recommended by Mintz , was carried out by us as follows:\mdash ; Ten .
of the filtered gastric contents are taken , two drops are removed with a * .
physiol .
Chem vol. 19 , 1894 , p. 104 .
Gunzburg , ' Chem. Centralblatt , ' 1887 , p. 1560 ; 'Centralblatt .
Medicin , ' 1887 , No. 40 .
'Wiener klin .
Wochensch 1889 , No. 20 ; ibid. , 1891 , No. 9 .
Maly 's ' Jahresberichte .
Fort . .
Thierchemie , ' vol. 19 , 1890 , , vol. 21 , 1892 , p. 222 .
reac nixture evaporated tryness , eagent added fordi tbtained otesti Talignant D are removed , the loss iu this way 1s very small .
In many of the cases of malignant disease it will be observed that the test was negative from the outset , showing entire absence of free hydrochloric acid .
( d ) Modified of Free and Combindrochloric Acid.\mdash ; We have used this method as a gravimotric one in the modification described by .
Jaksch .
The method consists in converting all the acids present into barium salts by the addition of barium carbonate ( prcviously tested , and found free from soluble barium salts ) .
Ten .
of the gastric contents are taken , about half-agramme of the fine dry barium carbonate powder added .
The mixture is well shaken up and allowed to for about all , it is then porated down to dryness in a platinum or nickel crucible , and incinerated .
the process of unaltered , the neutral salts formed from the acid salts remain neutral ; but the neutral organic salts formed from the organic acids , as well as any neutralised organic originally present in the gastric contents , are converted into carbonates and give an alkaline reaction .
Accordingly the total organic acids present in the gastric contents , whether free or combined , are given , by now titrating the solution with excess of acid , boiling to remove carbonic acid , and back titration with decinormal alkali .
The results , as iven in the table , show that the amount of organic acids present , both in the normal controls and in the malignant cases , is very small , in fact , in some of the malignant cases , the results yield a negative value .
As indicated under the Morner-Sjoqvist method this , however , indicates the presence of salts of organic bases with inorganic acids in the stomach contents , and hence , for both this * Determinations in XI of the amount of ammonia by Schlossing 's method showed that the alnount of ammouia is small , so that the acid must be present in combination with organic bases .
infra .
shown by the fact that on incineration in the presence of excess of alkali , the amount of alkali recovered afterwards was less than that added in excess of amount necessary for lleutralisation .
fraction varies within wide limits with the nature of the particular acid or lkali in question .
When an acid is dissolved in water it becomes partially ionised into a hydrogen ion , and an ion represented by the remainder of the formula of the particular acid , while the remaimng un-ionised portion maintains a balance or equilibrium in the solution , and is inert as regards acid properties , the degree of acid activity of the solution depending entirely upon the concentration of the hydrogen ions .
Similarly , when an alkali is dissolved , it becomes partially ionised into a hydroxyl ion , and another ion , dependent in constitution upon the alkali in question ; and in part remains un-ionised .
Here the hydroxyl ion , by its concentration determines the degree of activity as an alkali , just as in the case of the acid , the concentration of the hydrogen ion determines the acidity .
Taking , as examples , hydrochloric acid and potassium hydroxide , the condition of things when solution takes place may be represented by the equations:\mdash ; mKOH The blood owes its reaction to indicators ( such as phenol-phthalein , litmus , etc. ) to such substances as sodium carbonate in presence of excess of bonic acid , and to phosphates of the alkalies containing varyin amounts of base and acid .
In such solutions the amoullt of eflective acid ( ion ) or alkali ( ion ) concentration is very , and accordingly dependent upon the indicator used , the blood ( and other fluids of the body , the various secretions , urine , milk , etc. ) possesses an alkaline reaction ( for example , to litmus or di-methyl ) or an acid reaction ( for example , to phenol-phthalein ) .
That is to say , in the case of the blood and many other fluids of the body there is both acidity and alkalinity according to the indicator used , for both acid ions alkali ions are present , and the result obtained on testing will be dependent npon how the particular indicator is affected by these ions in the concentration in which thsy happen to be present .
In an analogous fashion to the different indicators , the different cells of the secreting and excreting glands of the body will separate from the same solution , the blood plasma , which bathes them , the ions for whioh they possess a greater permeability or greater affinity , and furnish secretions or excretions of varying reaction and degrec of reaction , that is to say , of varying concentration in hydrogen and hydroxyl ions .
The varying reactions given with different indicators in the same fluid , looked at from the proper point of view , instead of being a source of confusion , hencs serves * See Ostwald , ' buch d. allgem .
C'hemie , ' 2te Auflage , vol. 2 , p. 729 .
Zeitsch . .
Physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 12 , 1893 , p. 167 .
I :$ the hydroxyl ions when we began the titration , but instead , the amount of acid necessary to reduce the concentration of the hydroxyl ions to a dilution , at which the particular indicator in uss is no longer affected , and this figure may bear no relationship to the concentration of hydroxyl ions , or effective lkali in the blood serum .
The consideration of this subject has been given at some length , because it affects not only the msthod we have here in visw for determining the degree of effective acidity of the gastric contents , and incidentally the ture of the acid esent , but casts a light upon the bearing of the absence or diminution of the * The formula for equilibrium is deduced as follows:\mdash ; Suppose we have a solution represented by the equation KOH , and let the concentrations of the in solution be represented by , and COH , then the tendency for and OH ) combine will evidently be proportional to the product , and the tendency of KOH to split up into ions will be proportional to CKOH .
For equilibrium these must balance , and hence .
CKOH , accordingly if one concentration valies such as that of COH on the additiou of an acid , then the other concentrations must change espondingly , is , more KOH must dissociate .
COOH that this change can be increased enormously in velocity by the presence of an , and that the velocity is proportional to the concentration of the hydrogen of the acid , and the concentration of the methyl-acetate at any given moment .
The amount of acetic acid formed in a time when acids of different concentration act upon the same oonoentration of methyl-acetate , gives , at on ce , indication of the relative degrees of concentration of the hydrogen ions of the acids , or a simple calculation gives from this figure the effective concentration of the acid in hydrogen ions .
The determinations have been carried out by us as follows Ten .
of the gastric contents are taken in a small corked Erlenmeyer flask , .
of the methyl cetate is added , and 5 .
of the mixture is titrated at once with decinormal alkali , free from carbonate , using phenol-phthalein as indicator .
'Centralblatt .
klin .
' vol. 10 , 1889 , p. 793 ; Verhand . .
lnternat .
med .
ngresses , ' 1890 , Abth .
, Abstract in bIaly 's ' Jahresber vol. 21 , 1892 , p. 219 .
is sufficient to render the reaction alkaline to phenol-phthelein .
In the few cases where the total acidity rises above a trace only , the other tests * The -acetate should be as pure as possible , practically no acetic acid 011 titration alone , and a control as indicated above should be carried out at intervi ) , if the series of experiments is a prolonged one .
1905 .
] in Gastric Contents in Disease of .
153 Disease in Different Situations as determined by Methods indicated .
154 Prof B. Moore .
On Acid [ Feb. demonstrate that the reaction is not due to free hydrochloric except minute traces .
of meth l\ldquo ; indicator shows entire absence ocidit icases ihich ipplied , emaining cases gives v values , approaching half-way towards normal in only one case ( No. V ) .
S 3 .
The Gunzburg test shows eJltire absence of free hydrochloric acid out of 17 cases , and in the remaining cases the quantitative use of the ; test shows that , with one exception ( Case V ) , the amount of hydrochloric acid present was only a minute trace ( to per cent Case V was the only one which had an appreciable amount of free hydrochloric and even here the amount present was less than one-fifth the normal quantity .
4 .
The Morner-Sjoqvist method gave , as a rule , low results , but in Cases XI , , XVII much higher results were given than by the other methods .
There is little doubt that this result arose in those cases from the presence of salts of inorganic acids with organic bases , and not to hydrochloric acid either free or loosely combined with proteid .
5 .
The presence of inorganic acid combined with organic base is shown by the zero or negative value obtained on incineration with excess of alkali in the attempt to determine the amount of organic acid .
6 .
The methyl-acetate inversion method shows clearly what small traces of effective acid are present as compared with the normal cases .
In all the tested the concentration of ions never exceeds one-fifteenth part of the normal amount , and in the majority of cases sinks incomparably lower even than this low fraction .
7 .
Attention may be drawn to Case XII , in which a carcin omatous breast had been removed ten weeks previously , recovery was completed and appetite good .
Here it is to be noted that the gastric contents possess scarcely any " " total acidity requiring only .
in 10 .
of deci-normal alkali for neutralisation , and that of this tnfling amount only one-fifth or less ( in 10 c.c. of the contents ) is shown to be free hydrochloric acid by the Gunzburg test .
This shows , so far as any conclusion can be drawn from a single case , that the suppression of acid is not due to secondary products thrown out by the growth , neutralising the acid ions of the plasma .
For in that case the acid secretion should be re-established after removal of the growth .
The persistence of absence of acid seeretion after the growth has been removed points to the view ] the condition of the blood , and most probably the absence or marked diminution of acid ions in it , is to be regarded as a cause pre1905 .
] in Contents in Malignant of .
155 atient , ccount oondition , lies oisks obsence owhich initially lrowth ohere persist , even after troth hdisposing troth fffect orowth.recurrence ' must cnteresting light uowregard tubsequent tperation carried olarge number oasesobvious , nteresting foint oiewattempting tbtain aases .
' It is clear that the study of the condition of the gastric contents with The results of Case XITI , in which recurrence had just begun to be 8 .
In the table are included two cases of sarcoma , in which similar results were found as in carcinoma .
It was at Mr. Kelly 's suggestion that such cases were included , and we are at in the position of waiting for further material , but if the results in these two cases are confirmed in others , an .
interesting parallelism between the two types of malignancy will have been established , pointing to something very common in mode of origin malignant tumours .
Discussion of Result,7 .
1 .
The importance of the marked depression or entire suppression the , acid-secreting function , no matter what the situation of the growth , as an aid to diagnosis in doubtful cases of cancer , need not be insisted upon .
It must , however , be pointed out that we have not up till the present been 1 : regarding the subject from that point of view , and hence most of our cases were well advanced .
Accordingly , observations are still required at early stages in the disease , before conclusions can be drawn as to the diagnostic .
value of the sign , and such observations should be quantitatively directed towards determining amount of free hydrochloric acid , and not merely its qualitative presence or absence , as is too often done .
2 .
The bearing of the results upon the cause and possible prevention of the malignant growths is the most important aspect to be considered .
Instead of regarding absence or diminution of hydrochloric acid in cases of cancer of the stomach as being due to some local effect in that , we obtain from the observations recorded above the information that both in stomach cases and all other cases the change in acid secretion is not due to local influence on the secreting cells , but to an altered condition of the blood .
the reduction of acid-secreting power is a general effect accompanying wherever growth may occur in the body .
So far , we are dealing with experimental fact , and not with theory or $t Prof B. Moore .
Free Hydrochloric Acid [ Feb. 28 , hypothesis , and continued observations of the acid-secreting function under varying conditions ( such as early in the disease , soon after removal of growth , : repeated observations at varying intervals after operation , and observations early in recurrence ) , must teach us the relationships of the variations in acid production to the appearance of new .
growth .
It may be allowable , however , in concluding this paper , to throw out a few gestions , as to the probable cause of the change in the secretion of the acid , which are capable of forming the basis for additional investigation .
( a ) The diminution in acid secretion may be due to atrophy or loss of function of the oxyntic or acid-secreting cells .
A diminution in the percentage of hydrochloric acid has been observed in old and senile individuals , the average amount of free hydrochloric acid being , it is said , only slightly over per cent. instead of per cent. This diminution is , of course , very much less than in the malignant cases , but it shows that there is a tendency to diminution of acid-secreting power in the cells with advancing age , and hence suggests that in carcinomatous cases there may be an abnormal diminution in this power of the cells lio secrete acid .
Accordingly an investigation of the histology of the astric mucous membrane is suggested in cases of malignant disease , especially where the growth has not invaded the stomach .
Such investigation would have to be done most carefully , because long continued perversion of function might lead to atrophy ss a secondary and not a primary effect .
Also post-morte work alone might easily lead to wrong results , because gastric cells must share in the general wasting due to the growth .
The experiments indicated might hence best be taken up in the case of animals suffering from malignant disease .
( b ) The diminished acid secretion may arise from changes in the circulating medium , which do not cause atrophy of the cells , but which alter the activities of the cell so that it can no longer form acid ; or the materials for the formation of the acid may be ]acking the material supplied to the cell .
First , toxic substances may be formed at the seat of growth which circulate to the oxyntic cell and pervert its functions , alter its permeabilities for different ions , or in some manner destroy its normal power of secreting the acid .
In this case if the growth were early removed , before the oxyntic cells had been long thrown out of normal action , then one would expect a return to the normal condition of affairs .
Accordingly , we here require systematic and careful investigation of the effects of early removal of the growth upon the acid secretion Secondly , the action may not be a toxic one in the above sense , but may be ions in the plasma that the work and speed of separation of hydrochloric acid .
in the gastric secretion must depend .
Whatever view or theory may be taken of the process ; whether the secretion of acid be ascl.ibed to a greater permeability of the oxyntic cell for the hydrogen ion , or a selective absorption for that ion , or an intermediate 1 organic compound be supposed to be formed , or a double decomposition between acid phosphates of alkalies and calcium , or whatever be the supposed process ; it is clear that the rate of production of acids , other things being equal , must depend on the concentration of the ions in the plasma .
A drop from any cause of hydrogen ions in the plasma must mean a corresponding fall in rate of production of acid .
Now blood plasma is a fluid which is , at the same time , alkaline and acid ; it contains hydrogen ions and hydroxyl ions , and accordingly affects indicators ifferent directions ( eactio.phth.resence oydrogen ixyntic coincrease toncentration ohese irocess oecretionso 1stimated bmethod aacetateinversion method.attempt honcentrationder Zewebe , Leipzig , mann , oncentration oydrogen ilood pasma iowPflugeI , Arch.ische Chemie 1905 .
] in Gastric Contents in Malignant Disease of Organs .
159 merely by the administration of acid , so as to hydrogen ions to the blood plasma ; but the matter is not so simple as it at first sight appears .
It certainly is indicated that some attempt should be made to modify the reaction of the blood plasma , and if possible , restore the acid-secreting 1 function of the oxyntic cells , and we are at present making attempts in this direction .
But to keep permanently altered , even by continued therapeutic action , the reaction of the blood plasma is by no means easy of attainment .
The reaction of the blood is determined by the agency of the liver and I kidney cells , and if these have become set at a definite wrong level of action , all the regulating mechanism of the body is then at work against change of the reaction by therapeutic means .
When acid is administered , urea is taken A and broken up in the body , and ammonia obtained , which is used to neutralise the administered acid .
Hence , it is only with large and continued doses of acid , and on approaching the limits of acid intoxication , that any diminution in alkalinity can be hoped 1 for , and as soon as acid administration is slackened , the acid is neutralised by more ammonia obtained from oxidised proteid .
Thus , admitting that the diminished acid secretion is due to diminished icious 1concentration oydrogen iface tacekidney ather chich aending teducewith taintain tydrogen ioncentration iasma phigher 1against tompetition o

