271 gg3 .
] Experiments upon the Heart of the Dog .
.iving the citron spectrum , and no sooner had the exquisite sensitive-ess of this spectrum test forced itself on my notice than I sought for ttrium .
in other minerals .
The facts which I had noticed in con-eXi0n with the variation of the appearance of the citron spectrum , ccording to the quantity of yttrium present , showed that it might be ossible to devise a process for the rough quantitative estimation of ttrium , and after several experiments a spectrum test was devised ufficiently delicate to detect one-millionth part of yttria in a mineral .
\ table is given showing the results of this quantitative spectrum Analysis , from which it is seen that amongst other substances a specimen if coral contains one part of yttrium in 200 parts ; strontianite , one \gt ; art of yttrium in 500 parts ; chondrodite , from Mount Somma , one \gt ; art in 4,000 ; calcite , one part in 10,000 ; ox hone , one part in .0,000 ; an earthy meteorite ( Alfianello ) , one part in 100,000 ; and .obacco ash , one part in 1,000,000 .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; 'Experiments upon the Heart of the Dog with reference to the Maximum Volume of Blood sent out by the Left Ventricle in a Single Beat , and the Influence of Variations in Venous Pressure , Arterial Pressure , and Pulse Rate upon the Work done by the Heart .
" By William H. Howell , A.B. , Fellow of the Johns Hopkins University , and F. Donaldson , Jr. , A.B. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. ( Abstract .
) Owing to the indirectness of the methods hitherto used for estimating the quantity of blood pumped out from the left ventricle at each systole , this important factor in all calculations of the work done by the heart has never been satisfactorily determined .
Of the later physiologists who have investigated the subject , Volkmann and afterwards Vierordt , from calculations based upon the mean velocity of the stream of blood in the unbranched aorta , obtained the fraction \#163 ; 7ro as representing the ratio of the average weight of blood ejected at each systole of the left ventricle to the weight of the whole body .
Fick , from data obtained by placing the arm in a plethysmograph , and estimating the velocity of the stream of blood in the axillary artery from the increase in volume of the whole arm at each systole of the heart , arrived at a much smaller fraction , about xoVo\gt ; f'r the ratio between the weight of blood thrown out at each systole and the body-weight .
272 W. H. Howell and F. Donaldson .
At the suggestion of Professor Martin , and under his directions J undertook some experiments upon this subject , making use of'h method of isolating the heart .
The quantity of blood ejected from tl left ventricle at each systole under varying conditions of venous nr* sure , arterial pressure , and pulserate , can be determined directly this method by catching the blood a* it is pumped out from the connected with the aorta of the dog .
In all the observations made tl blood was collected during a period of 30 seconds , and the quantity tht obtained divided by the number-of heart beats occurring during thi time , as shown on the kymograph , in order to determine the quantit pumped out at each systole .
-The results of our work fall under fou different heads .
I. The Maximum Quantity of Blood uihich can be thrown out from Left Ventricle at \lt ; $*single Systole .
The method of working in determining this quantity was to increasj the amount of blood flowing into the right side of the heart , b raising the supply flask connected with the .superior yena cava , until a limit was reached m the amount of blood pumped out from the lef : ventricle , i.e. , a. point beyond which increase of the pressure and th\lt ; quantity of the 'blood flowing into , the right side of the heart caused no increase in .the quantity of the blood sent out from the lef ventricle .
_The mam-result of " these experiments maybe stated , at follows With a mean pulse-rate of 180 per minute in the dog , the mean ratk of the maximum weight of blood pumped-out from the left ventricle at each systole to 4he body-weight is .
g-^ or -001.17 .
The maximum outflow from the left heart was obtained in all cases , at or below 8 venous pressure on the right side of 60 centims. of defibrinated calf 's blood ( 46 millims. of mercury ) .
TVith regard**to the maximum outflow from the left ventricle at the normal pulse-o-ate ( 120 per minute ) of a dog , we have only one experiment to offer .
According *to that experiment the ratio of the maximum weight of blood pumped out from the left ventricle at each systole to the body-weight , with a pulse-rate of 120 per minute , is about or -0014 .
In applying these results to the normal dog , .we believe that the average quantity , of blood pumped out from the left-ventricle at each systole in the diving dog is approximated most nearly in our experiments-by the maximum outflow ; in other words , we think it probable that the left ventricle during life is distended at each diastole to about its maximum capacity. .
In coming to this conclusion we were influenced chiefly by three considerations .
1 .
The same opinion has been expressed by Boyar , the result.of his work on the frog s heart , 2 .
Calculations of the time required for a complete 1883 .
] Experiments upon the Heart of the circulation of the blood to take place in a normal dog , based upon the maximum quantity of blood sent out from the left heart at each systole , as determined by our experiments , give results which agree with what we would expect from the time found necessary by Vierordt from direct experiment for the jugular-femoral path .
3 .
It as probable that in our experiments the left heart , at the time the maximum outflow was obtained from it , worked under conditions of pressure closely resembling those to which it is subject during life .
The pressure in the left auricle , with the highest venous pressure ( 46 millims. of mercury ) used on the right side , had a maximum value of 20 millims. of mercury , a mean value of 16 mil lima .
, which .is probably about what occurs during life , since Goltz and Gaule found that the maximum pressure in the right auricle of the dog is about 19'6 millims. of mercury .
Owing to the difference in pulse-rate between the dog and man , no inference can be made with any certainty from the results obtained with the dog to the case of man .
II .
Influence of Variation of Arterial Pressure on the Worh done by the Heart .
Arterial pressure was varied by raising or lowering the end of the outflow tube leading from the aorta .
As the result of the experiments we can state that variation of arterial pressure from 58 to 147 millims. of mercury , have practically no direct effect whatever upon the quantity of blood sent out from the left ventricle at each systole .
Since the pulse-rate is not altered , the work done by the left ventricle , therefore , varies directly as the arterial pressure against which it works , within the limits named .
For how much wider limits than those given this may hold true we have not yet determined .
Since there is every reason to believe that under normal conditions the force of the systole is more than sufficient to completely empty the ventricular cavity , and we have found that with arterial pressures from 58 to 147 millims. the quantity of blood pumped out from the left ventricle at each systole remains constant , it seems probable that within these limits at least the force of the ventricular contraction is not influenced by variation in arterial pressure , but remains maximal throughout .
ph Influence of Variation of Venous Pressure on the Worh done by the Heart .
i The venous pressure on the right side was gradually increased from 10 centims. to 60 or 70 centims. , and the outflow from the aorfa measured for each venous pressure used .
The records of these experiments show in a marked manner the influence of venous pressure on the outflow from the ventricle .
As the general results of VOL. xxxv .
T 274 Experiments upon the Heart of t/ ie Dog .
[ May 31 the experiments , it was found that the outflow from the left ventricle and consequently the work done by it , increases with the venous pressure , but not proportionally , up to the point of maximum work It is certain that the most direct factor influencing the quantity oi blood sent out from the ventricle is the intra-ventricular pressure by which it is distended during diastole .
Leaving out the aspirating action of the thorax , the intra-ventricular pressure during life must be mainly owing to the action of the auricles , since the pressure in the great vein emptying into the auricles probably never rises to any important positive value , indeed , according to the experiments of most observers , has a mean negative value .
The contraction of the auricles then must have the most important and direct effect upon the work done by the ventricles .
TV .
Influence of Bate of Beat on the Work done by the Heart .
The rate of beat of the heart was varied in these experiments by ] heating or cooling the blood supplied to it .
In this way the pulse- ) rate was changed in one case from 228 to 77 beats in a minute , and !
back again to 140 in a minute , in another case from 204 to 65'5 , and back again to 157 , and so on .
The general result may be stated as follows:.\#151 ; A diminution of pulse-rate , brought about by lowering the temperature of the blood flowing into the heart , causes an increase in the quantity of blood thrown out from the ventricle at each systole , and consequently an increase in the work done at each systole , and vice versa .
The changes in the outflow from the ventricle at each systole are not , however , inversely proportional to the changes in the pulse-rate .
The total outflow and the total work done during any given period of time decreases with a diminished pulse-rate , and increases with an increased pulse-rate .

