Experiments on Wootz .
By Mr. David Mushet .
Communzicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.B.S. Read February 14 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 163 .
] The fine cakes of the kind of steel called Wootz , which form the subject of the present paper , were delivered to Mr. Mushet , for the purpose of examination , by Sir Joseph Banks .
Mr. Mushet begins his account of them by giving a very minute description of the form , the grain , and every other external character of these cakes .
This description cannot well be abridged , and is too long to be repeated .
We shall therefore only say that Mr. Mushet states , as a general remark , that the grain and density of these cakes of wootz were uniformly homogeneous , and free from metallic iron towards the under or round surface , but that they were always the reverse towards the upper side , called by Mr. Mushet the feeder .
The appearances observed upon forging these cakes are then particularly described , from which Mr. Mushet deduces the following general remarks .
The formation of wootz , he says , appears to himn to be in consequence of the fusion of a particular ore , which he supposes to be calcareous , or to be rendered so by a mixture of calcareous earth , along with a portion of carbonaceous matter .
The fusion , he -thinks , is performed in a clay vessel or crucible , in which vessel the separated metal is allowed to cool .
fHence , in his opinion , arises the crystallization that occupies the pits and cells observed in and upon the under or round surface of the cakes .
The want of homogeneity and solidity in these cakes , appears to Mr. Mushet to be owing to the want of a sufficient degree of heat to effect a perfect reduction ; and this opinion , he thinks , is strengthened by observing , that those cakes which are the hardest , or which contain the largest portion of carbonaceous matter , and , of course , form the most fusible steel , are always the most solid and homogeneous ; while , on the contrary , those cakes which are the most easily cut by the chisel , are in general cellular , and abound with veins of malleable iron .
If the natives of the country which produces the wootz were capable of rendering it perfectly fluid , Mr. Mushet thinks they would certainly have run it into moulds , by which , he says , they would have acquired a kind of steel more uniform in its quality , and more fit for the purpose of being worked and applied to the arts .
Some of the cakes here described had , arouLnd the feeder , and upon the upper surface in general , evident marks of the hammer .
This appearanec Mr. Mushet accouints for by supposing , that when the cake was taken from the pot or crucible , the feeder was most probably sligltly elevated , and the top of the cake covered in part with small masses of ore , which , from walnt of a sufficient degree of heat , had not been perfectly fused .
These , he thinks , are cut off at a second heating , and the surface then hammered smooth , to malke the catkes more fit for sale .
Mr. Mushet says he has observed similar appearances in operations of a like nature , where the heat has been insufficient ; and that such phenom ena sometines take place in separating crude iron from its ores , when , from its containing an excess of carbon , it is difficult to be fused .
The division of the cakes , by the native manufacturer , he thinkls , is done merely to facilitate its subsequent application to the purposes of the artist , and to serve as a test of the quality of the steel .
In order to determine by direct experiment whether wootz owes its hardness to an excess of carbonl , MJr .
Mushet made some comparative experiments upon the cakes , and upon common cast steel and white cast iron .
In operations of this kcind , he says , he has always found the proportion of carbon best ascertained by the quantity of lead reduced from flint glass .
He therefore mixed a certain quantity of wootz , or of steel , or iron , with three times the weight of pounded .
flint glass , and exposed the mixtutre to a heat of 160 ' ?
of Wedgwood 's pyrometer , The result of these experiments was as follows : The wootz of the 1st cake reduced 0-139 its own weight of lead .
That of the 2nd -0-125 3rd -0-120 -4th 0-156 5th 0-102 Steel containing -.V its weight of carbon 0-094 its own weight of lead , White cast iron -0-228 -From these experiments , the author says , it appears , that wootz contains a greater proportion of carbonaceous matter than the com- .
mon sorts of cast steel , and that some particular cakes approach very near to the nature of cast iron .
This , added to the imperfect reduction , seems to him quite sufficient to account for its refractory nature , and for the want of homogeneity in its texture .
Notwithstanding the above imperfections , Mr. Mushet thinks wootz possesses the radical principles of good steel , and that it is impossible not to have a very high opinion of the excellence of the ore from which it is produced ; the possession of which , for the fabrication of steel and bar iron , would be an object of the highest importance .
It is , he says , a subject of regret that such a source of wealth cannot be annexed to the dominions of this country ; as in that case the East India Company might supply their settlements with an article superior in quality , and inferior in price , to any they send from this country .

