]\gt ; Mr. H. Tomlinson .
[ Jan : 14 , IV .
" " The Coefficient of Viscosity of Air By HERBERT TOMLINSON , B.A. Communicated by Professor G. G. STOKES , P.R.S. Received January 6 .
1886 .
The author has had occasion , hilst investigating the internal friction of metals , to determine the coefficient of viscosity of air .
The viscosity of air has already engaged the attention of several distinguished experimenters , amongst others , of G. G. Stokes , Meyer , and Clerk Maxwell .
The resuIts obtained , however , differ so widely that it was considered necessary to institute fresh researches into the same subject .
The author employed the torsional vibrations of cylinders and spheres , suspended vertically from a horizontal cylindrical bar , and in a sufficiently nnconfined space .
The bar was suspended by a rather fine wire of copper or silver attached to its centre , which , after having been previously subjected to a certain preliminary treatment with a view of reducing the internal molecular friction , was set in vibration .
The vibrations were performed in a large box , which was rendcred sufficiently air-tight to prevent currents of air from vitiating the results .
The wire , hich was about 97 cm .
in length , was suspended in an air-chamber , the double walls of which enclosed between them a layer of water .
This air-chamber was in turn surrounded by a second , also provided with double walls which contained sawdust in the space between them .
The object of the two air-chambers was to protect the wire as much as possible from small fluctuations of temperature , which last had been found to render the internal friction of the metal very uncertain .
The coefficient of viscosity of air was obtained from observations of the diminution of the amplitude of vibration , produced by the resistance of the air to the oscillating spheres or cylinders attached to the horizontal bar , arrangements having been made so that the vibrationperiod of the wire should remain the same , whether the cylinders or spheres were hanging to the bar or not .
In deducing the value of the coefficient of viscosity from the logarithmic decrement , the author has availed himself of the mathematical .
investigations of Professor G. G. Stokes .
* Five sets of experiments were made with cylinders and wooden spheres , in the construction and measurement of which considerable care was taken .
When the cylinders were used arrange* See Professor Stokes 's paper " " On the Effect of the Internal Friction of Fluids on the Motion of Pendulums " " Trans. Camb .
Phil. Soc vol. , Part II , 1850 .
1886 .
] The Coefficient of Viscosity of Air .
41 ments were made to eliminate the effect of the friction of the air on their ends .
The following are the resuIts : \mdash ; linders .
Spheres .
Maxwell has proved* that the coefficient of viscosity of air is independent of the pressurs and directly proportional to the absoIute temperature .
We can , therefore , calculate from the above data what would be the value of the coefficient of viscosity at C. ; and when this is done , in the case of each of the five sets of experiments , we obtain the following values:\mdash ; Coefflcient of Set of viscosity of experiments .
air at C. 1st . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2nd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4th . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5th . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The mean of these numbers is with a probable erlot of only per cent. The formula for finding , the coefficient of viscosity of air at tlJe temperature C. , is therefore\mdash ; than 8experimented wromcarbonic aseem pamount ofhas bther observers , neverthe.iffers foreaqueous vapour aarbonic aresent irdinary aecredited wdimin.ution oiscosity ; anthough marer tbtained bthan ahichThe voefficien.iscosity ogiven aTrans , Part I Mr. F. Galton .
[ Jan. 21 , the author explain in any way the difference between his own result and that of Maxwell .
[ The method followed by Maxwell is liable to be vitiated to a very sensible degree by small errors of level of the movable disks , especially when they are closest to the fixed disks .
The final adjustmenl is stated to been that of the fixed disks , and no special precautions seem to have been taken to secure the exact horizontality of the movable disks .
By a calculation founded on the equations of motion of a viscous fluid , I find that at the closest distance ( about the onesixth of an inch ) at which the fixed and movable disks were set , an error of leveI of only vould suffice to make the internal friction per cent. too high .
In Mr. Tomlinson 's reductions no allowance has at present been made for the effecb of the rotation of the spheres or cylinders about their own axes , which is not quite insensible , as it would be in the case of a ball pendulum .
The introduction of a correction on this account would slightly diminish the values resulting from the experiments , especially in the case of the sphere , where it would come to about 4 per cent.\mdash ; G. G. S. ] .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered them .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " Family in Stature By FRANCIS GALTON , F.R.S. With an Appendix by J. D. HAMILTON DICKSON , Fellow and Tutor of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge .
Received , 1886 .
I propose to express by formuJae the relation that subsists between the statures of specified men and those of their kinsmen in any given degree , and to explain the processes through which family peculiarities of stature gradually diminish , until in every remote degree of kinship the group of kinsmen becomes undistinguishable from a group selected out of the general population at random .
I shall determine the constants in my formulae referring to kinship with a ussful

