V. A case of the human foetus found in the ovariuzm , of the size it usually acquires at the end of the fourth month .
By A. B. GRANVILLE , M. D. F. R. S. In a letter addressed lo Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart. , V. P. R. S. Read January 18 , 1820 .
MY DEAR SIR , HAVING met with a well defined case of a foetus in the human ovarium , which illustrates in a very satisfactory manner the explanation contained in your paper on the corpora lutea , respecting the mode in which the ovum is sometimes retained , and the embryo formed , within the cavity of the corpus luteum , I beg leave , through you , to communicate it to the Royal Society , that it may have a place amongst your observations on that subject .
To render it still more deserving of that honor , Mr. BAUER , to whom you and the public are so much indebted , has made drawings of the parts in a manner which , I may say , no one but himself could have executed .
A lady , aged 39 years , died on the 9th of last June , after having experienced various and severe sufferings , which , with the exception of a short period of apparent convalescence , had lasted from December the i2th , 1818 , to the moment of her dissolution .
After death , the body was examined at the request of her friends .
It presented nothing which , on a general inspection , might be said to indicate disease , except a considerable tumour , soft and moveable , yet perfectly distinct , placed immediately above the region of the pubis , and a little to the left of the linea alba .
My attention was , therefore , directed to the investigation of this point .
The integuments and muscular coverings of the abdomen being successively and carefully removed , a considerable quantity of fluid resembling blood , to the amount of several pounds , was discovered to fill every space which the viscera did not occupy .
Many large coagula of pure blood lay here and there on the surface , and amongst the convolutions of the intestines ; under the stomach ; in the right hypochondrium principally ; and in the cavity of the pelvis , where both the coagula and the fluid were in so large a quantity as completely to obscure from sight the internal parts of generation .
Another obstacle to the view of these organs , even after the intestinal mass had been laid aside , was a tumour of the size of four times that of a hen 's egg , partaking of the general black-reddish hue of all the surrounding parts , A blood-vessel of the size of a large crow-quill , which penetrated the dense portion of the tumour , was traced upwards to the descending aorta , and was ascertained to be a branch of the left spermatic artery .
A smaller and much shorter vessel , arising from the tumour , was also found to communicate with the spermatic vein ; thus establishing a complete circulation to and from the parts .
The inferior and left half portion of the tumour presented a surface consisting , in two or three places , of diaphanous membranes , through which a fetus of about four months growth was readily discovered .
The fact of an extra-uterine conception being thus made out , I proceeded to detach the parts from the pelvis , and brought them to that state of demonstration , which Mr. BAUER has so beautifully represented in the drawing ( see Plate VI .
) The left ovarium ( 0 ) was the seat of the tumour , which , as it gradually enlarged , distended the coverings of that organ in the same progressive manner , in proportion to its own size , so as to remain , for a time , wholly enveloped by it .
As the foetus however increased further , the ovarium burst in three different places ( i. e. .
) and thus the membranous sac forming the tumour , protruded partially into the cavity of the abdomen .
During this destructive process , that part of the covering of the ovarium was also lacerated , over the inner surface of which the placenta ( P ) was engrafted , so as to tear the adhesions of the latter , thereby producing that sudden and fatal hemorrhage , which destroyed the life of the mother and the child , and filled the cavity of the abdomen with blood .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI .
The womb ( A ) had acquired considerable developement during the increase of the foetus , so as nearly to have reached the size which it is known to attain when bearing the produce of conception .
Its parietes ( a a ) were thickened in proportion ; the orifice was closed , and transversely oblong , as I have generally found it to be in women who have borne children.* Several small prominent vesicles ( bb ) surrounded the internal orifice , and part of the neck of the uterus , within whose cavity ( B ) neither fluid , membrane , nor production of any description was found .
The right ovarium ( C ) was of a full size , and healthy , with a great number of the usual cells , containing fluid , distinctly visible ; it was terminated by a long slender thread-like appendix ( cc ) of a tendinous nature , which connected it with the neighbouring viscera .
The Fallopian tube of the same side ( D ) was likewise healthy in its structure , but adhering to the lateral part of the fundus uteri by means of a short and tough band ( d ) , ( no doubt the result of inflammatory action ) , which seemed a prolongation of one of thefimbriw of its floating extremity , so as to give to the tube that peculiar turn , which is so well expressed in the drawing .
The ligamenta rotunda ( EE ) seemed larger than usual , although healthy ; and the peritoneal foldings , forming what are commonly called the large ligaments , offered not the slightest trace of disease .
The latter were removed in the progress of the dissection , in order the better to exhibit the more important parts just described .
Both the Fallopian tubes were pervious only from their loose extremity inwards , to about half their length , and no farther ; nor did any artifice carefully employed , enable me to discover the opening of the tubes into the womb .
The left Fallopian tube ( F ) was perfectly sound and loose , particularly at its fimbriated extremity , which had no connection whatever with the neighbouring tumour .
All the above anatomical and pathological features are accurately portrayed , and to their natural size , in the drawing , to which I beg to refer you and the Society , in order the better to comprehend my description .
It ought to be stated here , that one of my principal reasons for dissecting away the broad ligaments , was to ascertain Io4 whether the peritoneal foldings , within which the ovarium is placed , rather than the membranes of the ovarium itself , formed the covering of the tumour The dissection , and the drawing , prove that the latter was the case .
In order to supply as much information as possible , re-v specting a fact so curious and important in itself , the only one I believe on record , which offers such complete and authentic evidence of a perfect ovario-gestation , I thought it expedient to know the internal anatomy of the tumour , and readily acceded to Mr. BAUER'S suggestion , of giving a second view of the case , which should represent as many of its important details as could be rightly ascertained .
The result of this ulterior investigation , for which the preparation , after having been drawn in its original state , as seen by yourself , Mr. CLIFT , and others , was necessarily altered and cut into , for better demonstration , is given in a second drawing of Mr. BAUER , of the most accurate and finished execution .
I shall only give you an explanation of the references marked in that drawing , which speaks for itself .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE VII .
A. Amnion .
B. Chorion .
CCC .
Placenta .
D. D. Fragments of the corpus luteum which surrounded the ovum , and was broken to pieces by the enlargement of the foetus .
EEE E. Ovarium .
F. Fallopian tube .
G. A portion of the omentum adhering to the ovarium .
From the above explanation , and , on a mere reference to the plate , it appears evident , ist .
That conception took place in the ovarium .
2dly .
That the formation of the placenta and the developement of the foetus , does not seem to have been different in this case , from what occurs within the womb under similar circumstances .
Sdly .
That the ovum was perfect , being formed of the placenta , and the two well known membranes quite distinct , without , however , the decidua of HUNTER .
4thly .
That the corpus luteum does not follow , but precedes conception , as you have shown in the paper alluded to , since , in this case , considerable portions of the corpus luteum were still found adhering in part to the placenta .
To all of which I may add , that the foetus , in every respect as perfect as a foetus of four months is known to be when borne in utero , was , in the present instance , contained in one of the outer and inferior cavities of the ovarium , within which it must have been completely enclosed , up to the period of the bursting of its covering ; and that the fragments of the corpus luteum , together with the placenta , ( which in this case was only half the size of what it should have been , though more vascular and spongy ) adhered firmly , by means of short filaments , to the inner parietes of the cavity within which conception had taken place .
In examining the right ovarium , as well as that within which the foetus had been developed , several cells were found , as usual , containing fluid , which hardened into small white masses by the action of alcohol , and appeared to be what anatomists have called ova .
But having summoned the io % g " " z Q::--i ?
:r ?
ii iii':j , ,i ?
: ; : ?
S n.- .
: , ---i cI : ? ? ? ?
r ; '4 a ?
i " sii " ?
1..3 t- : ?
:-:ri .
, :-d n ir -- , ,:i r iji -Iiii 1 ? ? ? ?
1Ei i ?
i ?
;i ; ialssrra--"l ?
P-anrpaaurs 6gsiiii P R_it rels i,3L9 ?
HF"LI .
L"I"_2 ; ? ?
i , ?
..- ; - ; I_ ; -. .
r ?
c 9 ' ^ ' , , I - ... .
III T. I 1 , , .
I. 1 .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ?
I ' IiiiiI I. IIIIIIi ijl 1 !
Ii ii iI 11 j , ,1 II li III f microscopical power of Mr. BAUER to my assistance , he has enabled me to give the following explanation , consistent with your doctrine , contained in the last volume of the Philosophical Transactions .
The small round , white , and opaque bodies found in the cells of the human ovarium , as well as in that of other animals in a healthy state , after they have been immersed for some time in alcohol , consist entirely of coagulable lymph , which is easily reduced , in water , to a mass of globules like those observed in serum ; but in the present instance , the substance of which the coagula consisted , seemed very different , it being a very strong and tenacious mucus , not soluble in water , and which , when pressed , yielded a vast quantity of oil , without the slightest appearance of any globules ; a phenomenon supposed to be the effect of previous disease .
In the right ovarium there was a corpus luteum perfectly well preserved , not far from the cells , which did not contain any such opaque white bodies ; while within two other cells equally near , and containing the coagula or white bodies above described , no traces of corpora lutea could be discovered .
I abstain from all professional observations , this not being the place to enter into them .
I ?
am , dear Sir , yours most truly , A. B. GRANVILLE .
Saville Row , Jnne , 1 9 .
xo-

