III .
" Researches on the Development of the Spinal Cord in Man , Mammalia , and Birds .
" By JACOB LOCKrHAIT CLARKE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) In the first stage of development the spinal cord consists simply of a canal surrounded by a single layer of small cells or nuclei , which are not distinguishable from each other in regard to size or structure , and are so closely aggregated as to appear in actual contact .
After a time this homogeneous layer , while it increases in depth , separates irregularly into two strata , the inner stratum forming the epithelium , and the outer the grey substance .
This differentiation of structure proceeds gradually , and is not at first marked by any definite line of separation , nor by any apparent difference in the structure of the component cells .
At the same time there is gradually formed around the walls of the nuclei a granular substance , which unites into processes or fibres , and constitutes a continuous network , by which all the nuclei or cells of both layers are uninterruptedly connected .
In the grey layer there is at first no apparent difference between the nuclei or cells of the anterior and posterior portion , although in each portion dark or more closely aggregated groups may be observed in connexion with roots of the nerves .
As development advances , however , while the nuclei of the posterior grey substance remain for a long time but little altered , those of the anterior substance increase in size , become more granular , and are connected by thicker fibres united in a coarser network .
At the same time , in the separate groups of the anterior grey substance , the granular network around the nuclei assumes a coarser and spongelike structure , until it constitutes a number of large roundish or irregular and adjacent cells with thickening and nucleated walls .
While these are in course of development , the contained nuclei are forming 1862 .
] 141 within them and around themselves a gradually increasing layer of finely-granular substance .
The thick cell-walls have all the appearance commonly assumed by connective tissue , and are continuous with that tissue in the grey substance of the cord .
In the intervertebral ganglia there is some difference in the manner in which the nerve-cells make their appearance .
The small cells or nuclei gradually enlarge , assuming a variety of slhapes ; and it is not till they have increased to a considerable size that nuclei and granular contents are observable within them .
These cells , like those of the cord , are connected , not only with each other , but with fibrous prolongations from the sheath of the ganglion , with the intervening connective tissue , and with the sheaths of blood-vessels , in one uninterrupted network .
The fibres of the posterior roots of the nerves , as they pass through the ganglion , split up and subdivide into fibriller , which become successively continuous with processes of series of the nerve-cells , which for the most part are cup-shaped or pyriform .
The processes of the epithelium around the canal of the cord are directly continuous with the connective tissue and with the sheaths of blood-vessels and pia matter at the surface .
In the early stages of development , then , it appears that there are two kinds of nuclei in the grey substance of the cord : that one kind developes the general network of tissue which pervades the entire substance , but proceeds no further ; that each of the other kind , while it is connected with this network , as well as with the true nerve-fibres , developes around itself a nucleated wall , which is still connected , and ultimately blended with the surrounding reticular structure , but , proceeding further , it again forms around itself and within the cellwall an increasing layer of granules .
The granular contents of the cells are connected , with their walls , which they form around themselves ; the walls of the cells are continuous with the connective tissue , and this again is continuous with the sheaths of the bloodvessels and pia matter of the surface , as well as with the processes of the epithelium : so that the connective tissue of the cord would appear to be intermediate in its nature between the nerve-tissue and the pia matter on the surface ; but there is no reason to believe that the connective tissue could ever be developed into nerve-tissue .
142 rjune 19 ,

