221 jj gj\gt ; 2 ] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
smooth , the other rough with electrolytically-deposited copper ; these Ivvere separated from thin plates of zinc merely by pieces of muslin , and the metals were folded over at each end and hammered together .
Each couple was placed in water , and for some days very minute bubbles of gas formed , r but only at the junction of the metals , and about equally in each case .
As might be expected , this zinc in conjunction with copper is capable \ 0f decomposing other liquids than water .
Chloroform yields readily to its i power , and iodide of ethyl , which Prof. Frankland decomposed by zinc only at a great heat , is split up rapidly at the ordinary temperature .
March 21 , 1872 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODS , M. A , , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " New Researches on the Phosphorus Bases .
" By A. W. Hofmann , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Berlin .
Received March 6 , 1872 .
About twelve years have elapsed since I submitted to the Royal Society , partly in conjunction with M. Cahours , a series of papers* on the remarkable group of phosphorus compounds , the existence of which was first pointed out by M. Paul Thenard as far back as 1846 .
These researches were devoted to the investigation of the tertiary and quartary derivatives of phosphoretted hydrogen , exclusively accessible by the methods then at our disposal .
The study of the primary and secondary phosphines , the examination of which promised even more noteworthy results than that of the bodies then investigated , still remained to be achieved .
New tasks of life have since that time presented themselves , and I have not been able to devote myself as much to research as in former days .
Nevertheless , numerous attempts were made to procure the primary and i secondary phosphines , which were clearly indicated by theory and partly I even by M. Thenard 's early observations .
For along time , however , these experiments proved unsuccessful , and it was only in the course of last summer that I at last discovered an easy method for their production .
I may now fairly hope to complete an inquiry , the first part of which the Royal Society have done me the honour of inserting in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' -ft still some time will be required for surveying a field which appears to expand as one advances in its investigation , and I therefore beg leave to present to the Society the results of my observations in the measure as they are obtained , even before the whole investigation be terminated .
| Is * Proceedings , vol. viii .
pp. 500 , 523 ; vol. ix .
pp. 287 , 290 , 487 , 651 ; vol. x. pp. 100 , 189 , 603 , 608 , 610 , 613 , 619 ; vol. xi .
pp. 286 , 290 .
t Phil. Trans. 1857 , p. 575 ; 1860 , pp. 409 , 449,497 .
222 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar. 21 , I. Formation of Alcohol Phosphines by means of Phosphonium Iodide .
The starting-point of the new series of researches was a lecture expen .
ment. .
Wishing to exhibit to my class the decomposition of phosphoretted hydrogen by the spark-current of an induction-coil , I was unable to procure , by any of the methods hitherto described , phosphoretted hydrogen of sufficient purity for this experiment .
I was thus led to select a rather unusual substance as a source for phosphoretted hydrogen , viz. the beau , tiful compound of the latter with hydriodic acid , generally designated as phosphonium iodide .
This substance , formerly accessible only with difficulty , may now be easily prepared in any quantity .
If a slow stream of water , or better of potash or soda , be allowed , by means of a di opping-tube , to flow into a small vessel containing phosphonium iodide , a regular current of perfectly pure phosphoretted hydrogen is evolved , which may at once be introduced into a eudiometer provided with spark-wires , and be submitted to experiment .
With the first spark that passes , a brown cloud of finely divided phosphorus appears in the eudiometer , lining gradually the inside of the tube .
After the lapse of five minutes , two volumes of phosphoretted hydrogen have become expanded into three volumes ot pure hydrogen gas .
The facility with which phosphonium iodide is thus seen to split up into its constituents , hydriodic acid and phosphoretted hydrogen , led me to think that this body might be made available for the preparation ot the compounds I had so long endeavoured to obtain , lwo difteient p.o-cesses suggested themselves , both aiming at a reproduction of *he conditions under which , as I have shown now more than twenty years ago* , the alcohol derivatives of ammonia are readily obtained .
For this purpose it was necessary to disengage phosphoretted hydrogen in the presence ot an alcohol iodide under pressure .
This could be easily accomplished by submitting a mixture of an alcohol iodide and phosphonium iodide in sealed vessels to the action of an agent ( such as water or a metallic oxide , zinc oxide for instance ) , slowly liberating the phosphoretted hydrogen from the iodide .
But this process appeared to be capable of a further simplifca* tion .
Instead of withdrawing the hydriodic acid in the phosphonium iodide from the reaction bymeans of water or a metallic oxide , it seemedworth trying to utilize this acid in the production of the very alcohol iodide to be acted upon by phosphoretted hydrogen ; and the question arose whether this result might not be readily attained by decomposing under appropriate circumstances the phosphonium iodide by the alcohols themselves .
These several anticipations have been fully confirmed by experiment* Both processes yield alcoholic phosphines easily and copiously ; and , remarkably enough , whilst the former ( action of alcohol iodide upon phosphonium iodide ) gives rise to the formation of exclusively the primary and secondary phosphines I had so long endeavoured to produce , the secondary process ( action of the alcohols upon phosphonium iodide ) furnishes only the * Phil. Trans. 1850 , p. 93 ; 1851 , p. 357 .
1872 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
tertiary phosphines and the quartary phosphonium compounds previously known , but which may be much more easily and plentifully obtained by the new method .
Phosphonium iodide has thus become a general agent for the production of the alcohol derivatives of phosphoretted hydrogen .
The formation of the several groups of phosphines by means of phosphonium iodide is represented by the following equations , in which the reaction is assumed to be accomplished in the methyl series:\#151 ; Primary Phosphines .
2CH31 + 2(H3P.HI ) + ZnO=2[(CH3 ) H2 P.HI ] + ZnI3+H2G .
Secondary Phosphines .
2CH3 T + H , P. HI + ZnO=(CH3)2 H P. HI + Zn I2+ HaO .
Tertiary Phosphines .
3(CH8 .
HO ) + Hs P. HI=(CH3)3 P. HI + 3HaO .
Quartary Phosphonium Compounds .
4 ( CH3 .
HO)+H3 P. HI = ( CH3)4 PI+4H20 .
II .
Primary and Secondary Methylic Derivatives of Phosphoretted Hydrogen .
Owing to the superior interest attached to the monocarbon compounds , I was induced , in the first place , to test the new reactions in the methyl series .
Phosphonium iodide , methylic iodide , and zinc oxide act upon one another with remarkable facility .
Two molecules of each of the iodides and one molecule of zinc oxide were found to be appropriate proportions ; the ordinary zinc-white of commerce may be employed .
Since it was desirable to procure at once the new compounds in sufficient quantity for a thorough examination , the digestion-tubes received considerable charges .
If these tubes have a capacity of from 120 to 150 cubic centims. , 70 or 80 grms. of the agents involved in the process may be digested without danger .
It is not , however , desirable to pass these limits .
The compound first introduced is the phosphonium iodide , then follows the zinc oxide , which is compressed into a solid layer in order to prevent the methyl iodide , lastly poured in , rapidly to come in contact with the phosphonium compound .
In the presence of zinc oxide the two iodides act upon each other even at the common temperature ; and without the precaution just indicated , it would be difficult to draw out and seal the tubes .
Before being heated , the tubes must be strongly agitated in order to produce a thorough mixture of the three substances .
As regards the digestion , I have been often satisfied to work at the temperature of boiling water ; after six or eight hours ' exposure in a water-bath , the transformation is generally complete , If the tubes be heated to 150 ' in an air-bath , not more than four hours are required .
On cooling , the digestion-tubes are found to contain a white crystalline solid ; they invariably hold a good deal of compressed gas , so that some precaution is necessary in opening them before the blowpipe .
The gases generally issue with a loud report and a long 224 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar. 21 flame ; explosions , however , are but rarely , met with .
The proportions of the charge are so selected , that supposing the reaction to be complete , no other products except methylphosphonium iodide and zinc iodide should be produced .
But the presence of some unchanged phosphonium iodide together with the escape of its constituents , more especially of phosphoretted hy .
drogen , prove at once that compounds more highly methylated must be formed .
Experiment shows , however , that monomethyl- and dimethyl , phosphine exclusively are generated .
These two substances are easily separated from the crude product of the reaction , which , by means of a bent wire , may be removed in one piece from the tube .
The separation of monomethylphosphine and dimethylphosphine ami the preparation of the two bodies in a state of purity are based upon the observation that the salts of the former base are easily and thoroughly decomposed by water , whilst those of dimethylphosphine , more especially in the presence of free acid , may be considerably diluted without undergoing any change , but are immediately decomposed by addition of a fixed alkali .
The crude product of the reaction is therefore consecutively treated with water and strong alkali , the former disengaging the methyl phosphine , which , being gaseous , is collected in concentrated hydriodic acid , the latter liberating the dimethylated phosphine , which , being liquid at the common temperature , may be readily condensed by an appropriate cooler .
The two bodies being powerfully acted upon by the oxygen of the air , the whole process is to be conducted in an apparatus filled with hydrogen .
ch5p= h Ip .
h J Methylphosphine is a colourless transparent gas of a most overwhelming odour .
Both by cooling and by pressure the gas may be condensed into a colourless liquid floating upon water , and boiling from platinum at \#151 ; 14 ' under a pressure of 0'7585 metre .
The experiment was made with from 60 to 70 grms. of methylphosphine condensed in one operation , the boiling-point remaining constant till the last drop had distilled .
In studying the behaviour of the new gas under the influence of increased pressure , I have availed myself of the beautiful compression-apparatus constructed by Gustav Magnus .
At 0 ' If atmosphere wras sufficient to start the liquefaction ; under a pressure of 2| atmospheres the gas was perfectly liquid , its purity being thus satisfactorily established .
At 10 ' liquefaction commenced , and was completed under a pressure of and 4 atmospheres respectively ; at 20 ' , lastly , under a pressure of 4 and atmospheres .
The volume-weight of methylphosphine gas was easily determined by allowing a small tube with a weighed quantity of the iodbydrate to rise into a graduated cylinder filled with mercury and inverted over the mercurial trough and subsequently introducing some concentrated solution of 187 ' ?
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
soda which decomposed the salt .
By observing the volume of the gas dis-eno-ao-ed , all the data for fixing the volume-weight were given .
In this manner the number 24*35 was found , the theoretical value being 24 .
Methylphosphine is nearly insoluble in water ; if the water contain air , part of the gas disappears , but only in consequence of oxidation , cleaily indicated by the formation of white clouds .
If the gas stand over water into which air can penetrate from without , the gas after some time is perfectly absorbed .
Methylphosphine gas is rather soluble in alcohol even at the ordinary temperature , but more especially at temperatures approaching its point of liquefaction ; at 0 ' one volume of alcohol of 95 per cent , absorbs not less than twenty volumes .
At the ordinary temperature ether dissolves but little ; the solvent power increases , however , rapidly by cooling the liquid .
At 0 ' one volume of ether is capable of dissolving seventy volumes of methylphosphine .
The methylated phosphorus base attracts oxygen with great avidity ; on mixing the gas with air , white clouds are formed at once ; but detonation does not take place at the common temperature .
It methylphosphine be required of absolute purity , the gas must be allowed to escape from the apparatus until a small quantity collected over mercury remains perfectly transparent .
The nature of the more immediate products of oxidation remains to be investigated .
When gently heated in contact with aii , methylphosphine takes fire .
A glowing match , and even a glass rod just heated to scarcely visible redness , at once inflame the gas .
In contact with chlorine and bromine or nitric vapours , it burns with a brilliant flame .
By its union with acids , methylphosphine gives rise to a series of well-defined salts distinguished by the remarkable property of being decomposed by water .
On this property is based the preparation of the body in a state of purity .
The salts bleach vegetal colours like chlorine .
Of the salts , two only have as yet been more closely examined , the ehloi-hydrate and the iodliydrate .
Chlorhydrate.\#151 ; If a current of methylphosphine gas be conducted into strong fuming hydrochloric acid , it is perfectly absorbed ; no crystals , however , are separated ; but on mixing the two gases , they are at once condensed to beautiful , well-formed , four-sided plates .
In certain reactions with organic chlorides , which are accomplished in ethereal solution , and which I hope to describe more minutely to the Society hereafter , the salt is deposited in splendid large four-sided tables , often having a centimetre in diameter .
The chlorhydrate is so volatile that it passes over even with the vapour of ether .
Analysis was performed by the method often adopted for demonstrating the composition of sal-ammoniac in lectures .
By allowing equal volumes of methylphosphine and hydrochloric gases to meet over mercury , both entirely disappear with formation of a crystalline deposit .
Hence the salt contains CHfiPCl=(CII3 ) II3P , IICl .
Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar. gi The solution of the chlorhydrate in concentrated hydrochloric acid fUr , nishes with platinum perchloride a beautifully crystallized orange-red pla .
tinum salt .
Iodhydrate.\#151 ; Of all the salts of the base , this is the one most readily obtained ; it separates in bulky crystals when a current of methylphosphine is passed into the most concentrated iodhydric acid .
If a solution of the gas in somewhat less concentrated iodhydric acid be mixed with ether , the whole liquid solidifies to a mass of iridescent plates .
By washing with ether , pressing , and sublimation in a current of dry hydrogen , the salt may be readily obtained in a state of purity .
Analysis led to the formula CH6PI=(CH3)H2P , HI .
The sulphate I have not yet seen in the solid state ; it is , however , readily formed by bringing the phosphorus base in contact with concentrated sulphuric acid .
The gas is absorbed without the acid colouring .
On addition of water , methylphosphine is again liberated .
The sulphite is a white amorphous mass which is formed when methylphosphine and sulphurous acid gases are collected together over mercury .
With carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen methylphosphine gas may be mixed without any condensation taking place .
Sulphur , carbon bisulphide , and chlorocarbonic ether , when placed in contact with methyl-phosphine , give rise to the formation of new compounds , which will be the subject of a special communication .
Among the products M. P. Thenard* describes , in the short notice of his researches on the action of methylic chloride upon calcium phosphide , is an oily compound boiling at 250 ' containing C2 He P ( perhaps phosphoric kakodyl ) , which , when treated with water , splits into an acid and a gaseous body .
The latter , to which M. P. Thenard assigns the formula C Hs P , is said to combine with either one or two volumes of chlor-hydric gas .
It can scarcely be doubted that the phosphoretted gas discovered by M. Thenard is identical with the body the chemical history of which I have endeavoured to sketch in this paper .
There are certainly still some discrepancies to be explained , such as the observation just alluded to , that M. Thenard 's phosphorus body combined with chlorhydric acid in two proportions .
The somewhat complex reaction which gives rise to the formation of methylphosphine , when generated by means of methylic chloride and calcium phosphide , and indeed the difficulties attending this process , which appear to have prevented M. Thenard from pursuing his researches , have hitherto deterred chemists from entering more thoroughly into the investigation of this remarkable compound .
By the method described in this paper , methylphosphine may be readily and abundantly obtained in a state of perfect purity , so that its further examination will present no difficulty .
* Compt .
Rend , vol , xxv .
p. 892 .
jgpgi Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
Dimethylphosphine .
ch3i CSH , P=CH , P. The method of preparing dimethyl phosphine has been already stated .
It is a transparent colourless liquid , which , when protected from the atmosphere , may he preserved without change .
It is lighter than water , in which it is " insoluble ; alcohol and ether , on the other hand , dissolve it with facility .
Its boiling-point is 25 ' .
Dimethylphosphine is remarkable for the avidity with which it attracts oxygen , and which is infinitely superior to that of the monomethylated base .
In contact with the air , it instantaneously takes fire and burns with a powerfully luminous phosphorus flame .
If the hydrogen atmosphere in which it is prepared contain only traces of air , the presence of which is at once indicated by the formation of white fumes , violent and by no means dangerless explosions are occasionally experienced in working with this compound , even if great care be employed .
Dimethylphosphine easily unites with acids ; all the salts are exceedingly soluble .
The solution of the chlorhydrate furnishes with platinum per-chloride a fine crystalline salt .
The base also unites with sulphur and carbon bisulphide .
The compounds thus formed are not yet investigated ; but it may even now be remarked that they essentially differ from those produced by trimethylphosphine ; more especially in the deportment of the two bases with carbon bisulphide , a marked discrepancy is observed .
Di-methylphosphine in this case produces no crystalline compound similar to those which are formed by the tertiary phosphines ; so that the absence of trimethylphosphine among the products of the action of methyl iodide on phosphonium iodide may be readily demonstrated .
The inflammability and the low boiling-point of dimethylphosphine Tender it difficult to work with this body except in the midst of winter .
The examination of its numerous products of decomposition , which promises to be fruitful in results , is therefore as yet but little advanced .
Hitherto I have studied somewhat more in detail only the products of oxidation of the methyl bases , which I beg leave to describe to the Society in a special paper .
III .
Products of Oxidation of the Methylated Phosphines .
When determining phosphorus in several substances which in the course of the new researches on the phosphines had to be examined , it was found that these bodies , and especially the members of the methyl series , resist w*th remarkable energy the action of even the most powerful oxidizing agents , If the phosphoretted bodies were heated according to the method of ^ai *U8\gt ; it happened sometimes , especially when the digestion in sealed tubes t*as conducted according to the earlier directions with nitric acid not perDr .
A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar. 2 ] , fectly concentrated and at moderate temperatures , that the liquid taken from the tube and treated in an appropriate manner with magnesian salts gave no precipitate whatever .
If , on the other hand , strongest fuming nitric acid be employed at high temperatures , phosphoric acid is certainly formed ; but only when the reaction takes place at the very extreme temperatures recommended by Carius* in his more recent paper , is the whole quantity of phosphorus made precipitable by magnesian salts .
It appeared of interest to submit to a closer examination the products of oxidation that are formed by the action of nitric acid on the primary and secondary phosphines at moderate temperatures , more especially since some of these'bodies have probably passed already through the hands of M. Paul Thenardwhen engaged in his remarkable but , unfortunately , unfinished researches on this subject .
Experiment showed that nitric acid gives rise to new acids of great stability and comparatively little volatility , and thus avery simple method of estimating phosphorus in this whole group of compounds at once suggested itself .
It was only necessary to dissolve the substance under examination , according to circumstances , either in strong hydrochloric or in nitric acid , to mix the liquid slowly with fuming nitric acid , to treat the solution after evaporation with excess of sodium carbonate , and finally to dry and fuse the mass in a porcelain crucible ; in this way the oxidation of the phosphorus is easily and perfectly accomplished .
All the phosphorus estimations necessary in these researches have been performed in this manner .
Experiments in the Methyl Series .
Monomethylphosphinicacid.\#151 ; In order to obtain the product of oxidation of methyl phosphine in appropriate quantity , a slow stream of the gas was directed into fuming nitric acid .
It would have been unnecessary in this case to employ the phosphine gas in a state of purity ; it was sufficient to make use of the methylphosphine as it is delivered from the crude product of the action of methyl iodide on phosphonium iodide and zinc oxide by treatment with water .
This gas always contains small quantities of phosphoretted hydrogen , which ignite in contact with the fuming acid , and easily give rise to small explosions .
As the methylphosphine becomes purer , these become more seldom and at last quite cease .
Invariably , however , in consequence of these detonations , more or less phosphoric acid is found amongst the products of oxidation .
To get rid of the nitric acid , the solution is several times evaporated to dryness on a water-bath , the residue dissolved in water , .and the liquid boiled with lead oxide for the purpose of separating the phosphoric acid ; a lead-salt is thus formed which is insoluble in water but dissolves in acetic acid , leaving an appreciable residue of lead phosphate .
This solution is freed from lead by means of sulphuretted hydrogen , and from acetic acid by repeatedly evaporating , when the new body remains as an oily liquid which , on cooling , solidifies to a crystalline mass resembling spermaceti .
The * D. Chem. Ges .
Ber .
1870 , p. 697 .
B\gt ; dcIioy .
Soc. Vol. JL-FL.l DeLguRua Stewart Loewy .
-SO + 100 \#151 ; \/ mi larrHnef \#174 ; |nS ?
oY/ i'L ' ?
" A 1872 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Phosphorus Bases .
crystals thus produced , which could not be obtained in distinct forms , are hygroscopic but not deliquescent .
They readily dissolve in water , the solution restoring litmus red to blue , and possessing , moreover , an agreeable sour taste .
They are also soluble in alcohol , less so in ether ; the alcoholic solution , however , is not precipitated by ether .
The stability of this body is quite remarkable ; that it is not altered by fuming nitric acid is evident from the manner of its preparation ; but even by repeated evaporation with aqua regia not the slightest change is produced .
The new compound melts at 103 ' C. ; it is volatilized , at least for the greater part , without decomposition ; when strongly heated , it evolves an inflammable gas , a small residue of phosphoric acid mixed with more or less carbon remaining behind .
Analysis showed that methylphosphine , by treatment with nitric acid , fixes three atoms of oxygen , the composition of the new body being represented by the formula CH , PO , =(CH , )H1PO , .
The new substance is a well-marked acid ; I will designate it by the name placed at the head of the paragraph , i. e. acid , or more briefly methylphosphinic acid .
It forms two series of salts , the composition of which is represented by the formulae ( CH3 ) HM P03 and ( CH3 ) Ma P03 .
The primary ( acid ) salts are produced by the action of metallic carbonates , or by incomplete saturation with the free bases .
For the preparation of the secondary ( neutral ) salts , the acid must be completely saturated by the free bases ; they can , however , also be obtained by means of carbonates , if the latter , as is the case with the alkaline carbonates , are capable of fixing the carbonic acid which is liberated .
The primary methylphosphinates have an acid , the secondary salts an alkaline reaction ; these latter are soluble and only little inclined to crystallize .
The ammonium-salts lose ammonia by evaporation , leaving the acid behind .
Amongst the metallic salts , especially the primary ones , many are insoluble , or soluble only with difficulty .
Silver Methylphosphinate.\#151 ; If the acid be saturated with silver oxide and the solution evaporated to the consistence of a syrup , the primary salt separates from the solution in beautiful white needles , which , in contact with water and even with alcohol , are readily converted into the secondary salt with separation of the free acid .
The salt obtained by means of silver oxide and purified by washing with water gave numbers which showed that it consisted of the nearly pure secondary compound .
In order to obtain this salt quite pure , the solution the acid was accurately neutralized by ammonia and precipitated by ver nitrate .
It is a white amorphous precipitate , nearly insoluble in water , having the composition t .
CH3 Aga POa .
\#171 ; Methylphosphinate.\#151 ; If an aqueous solution of methylphosphinic \gt ; 0h .
xx , g 230 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar.21( acid be boiled with an insufficient quantity of lead oxide , the primary and secondary salt are formed at the same time ; the latter as a white amor-phous heavy powder which collects at the bottom of the hot liquid , the former crystallizing from the liquid as it cools in beautiful , long , lustrous , white needles .
On washing with water , the salt is decomposed like the silver compound , gradually forming the secondary salt and free acid ; indeed analysis of the washed crystals gave numbers lying between those required for the primary and secondary salts .
Ihe secondary salt may he obtained , however , in a-state of purity if the barium-salt presently to be described be decomposed by lead acetate .
It is a precipitate almost insoluble in water , but soluble in acetic acid ; its composition is ( CH3 ) Pb P03 , or perhaps more correctly ( CH3)2 Pb2 P2 06 .
Barium Methylphosphinate.\#151 ; This is obtained by boiling the acid with barium carbonate , evaporating the solution to the consistence of a syrup , and precipitating by alcohol .
It is a white powder consisting of microscopic needles easily soluble in water .
The aqueous solution , even on slow evaporation , yields no crystals , but dries .to a gummy mass .
Analysis showed the salt to be the primary compound C2 H8 Ba P2 06*= ( CH3)2 H2 Ba P2 06 .
Methylphosphinic acid has the same composition as methylphosphorous acid , but it is only necessary to compare the above statements with what is known respecting the latter compound in order to see that they constitute two absolutely different bodies .
Methylphosphorous acid is an uncrystal-lizable ephemeral compound , being decomposed , even at a gentle heat , into phosphorous acid and methyl alcohol ; it cannot possibly be mistaken forthe extremely stable derivative of methylphosphine , which may even be distilled without undergoing any decomposition .
Bimetkylphosphinic Acid.\#151 ; By this name I designate an acid which is produced by the action of nitric acid on the secondary methyl base .
In preparing this body it is convenient to start from the chlorhydrate of dime-thylphosphine .
A solution of this salt is readily obtained when the crude product of the action of phosphonium iodide on methyl iodide , after the expulsion of methylphosphine by water , is distilled with alkali , the dime-thylphosphine thus disengaged being passed into hydrochloric acid .
If this solution be mixed with fuming nitric acid , a powerful reaction ensues , causing the liquid to boil , and fumes of nitrous acid copiously to be evolved .
In order to free the strongly acid solution from nitric acid , it is repeatedly evaporated with hydrochloric acid , and then heated for some time on the water-bath to expel as far as possible also this latter acid .
To get rid of the last traces of hydrochloric acid , the liquid is saturated with silver oxide and the solution , filtered from the silver chloride , precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen .
The solution again evaporated on the water-bath gr8 ' dually solidifies to a white paraffine-like mass of crystals , which , in contact with the air , are apt to become slightly brown ; they are very soluble in 1872 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
water , alcohol , and ether .
These solutions have a decidedly acid reaction .
The crystals melt at 76 ' ; at a higher temperature they are volatilized without decomposition ; indeed the distilled product shows the same melting-point as the undistilled acid .
Dimethylphosphinic acid is less suitable for analysis than the mono-compound .
It appeared sufficient to fix its composition by the examination of the silver-salt .
This analysis proved the acid to be represented by the formula C2 H7P02=(CH3)2HP02 .
It is thus seen that dimethylphosphine , when treated with nitric acid , fixes not three atoms of oxygen , like the monomethylated base , but only two .
Dimethylphosphinic acid forms only one series of salts , having the general formula C2 He MPOa = ( CHa)2 MP02 .
Silver Dimethylphosphinate.\#151 ; This salt is obtained by saturating the crude acid still retaining hydrochloric acid with silver oxide , evaporating the filtered solution , and precipitating the concentrated liquid with absolute alcohol .
The salt presents itself in the form of fine felted white needles extremely soluble in water , but very slightly so in ether and absolute alcohol .
Its composition is represented by the formula C2H6AgP02=(CH8)2AgP02 .
Barium Dimethylphosphinate.\#151 ; By boiling the solution of the pure acid with an excess of precipitated barium carbonate , a neutral liquid is obtained , which , when evaporated on the water-bath , dries up to a transparent varnish .
In contact with a hard body this clear varnish becomes opaque , and shows inclination to crystallize .
It is soluble also in alcohol .
Lead Dimethylphosphinate.\#151 ; The preparation is conducted in the same manner as that of the barium salt , only that oxide instead of carbonate is employed .
In its properties it resembles the barium salt : the varnish dissolves in a small quantity of water ; the solution becomes turbid , however , by the addition of a larger quantity .
Several lead determinations showed excess of lead above that contained in the normal dimethylphosphinate , a result which cannot surprise if the tendency of lead to form basic salts and the absence of all properties warranting the purity of the compound be considered .
It is of some interest to compare the behaviour of phosphoretted hydrogen under the influence of powerful oxidizing agents with that of its several methylated substitution-products .
Phosphoretted hydrogen , on treatment with concentrated nitric acid , fixes four atoms of oxygen , becoming converted into tribasic orthophosphoric acid ; methylphosphine similarly treated combines with only three atoms of oxygen , forming dibasic methylphos-phinic acid .
Under the same conditions dimethylphosphine appropriates not more than two atoms , giving rise to monobasic dimethylphosphinic acid .
astly , trimethylphosphine fixes but one atom of oxygen , the product of I e reaction being trimethylphosphine oxide , observed some years ago by s 2 232 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar. S ; Cahours and myself ; this body is no longer capable of forming saline f pounds .
We thus arrive at the following series h3p+o4= h3po4 .
( CH3 ) h2 p+o3- ( CH3)H2 po3 .
( CH3)2H P+02=(CH3)sH po2 .
( CH3)3 p+o =(CH3)3 po .
By examining this series it is observed at once that all the bodies here described are derived from phosphoric acid , the oxides generated from the methylated phosphines being orthophosphoric acid , the hydroxylic groups of which are successively replaced by methyl .
Orthophosphoric acid ... . .
HO ] HO IPO .
HO J Methylphosphinic acid Dimethylphosphinic acid CH3I HO IPO .
HO J CH3 ch ; HO PO .
CHal Trimethylphosphine oxide ... CH3 \gt ; PO .
CH3 J This symmetrically constituted series does not stand alone ; indeed orthoarsenic acid forms the starting-point of a perfectly analogous group of compounds , which are obtained , however , by processes different from those yielding the phosphorus bodies .
The substance corresponding to methylphosphinic acid is arsenmonomethylic acid , discovered by M. Baeyer ; that analogous to dimethylphosphinic acid is the well-known kakodylic acid Of M. Bunsen ; finally , trimethylarsine oxide has been obtained by M. Cahours when submitting trimethylarsine to the action of oxidizing agents .
HO ) Orthoarsenic acid . . .
HO lAsO .
HO J CH31 Arsenmonomethylic acid . .
... HO i AsO .
( Methylarsinic acid ) HO J CH3 I Kakodylic acid . . .
CH3 [ AsO .
( Dimethylarsinic acid ) HO j CH3 ) Trimethylarsine oxide ... .
CH3 lAsO .
CH3 J The formation of methyl- and dimethylphosphinic acid is thus seen illustrate again the unmistakable analogy of the two elements , phospko 1872 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
and arsenic , already traced in so many directions .
I hope that the continuation of these researches will still farther elucidate this similarity .
There can be no doubt that the several members of the kakodyl series from which arsenmonomethylic and kakodylic acids have been produced will soon be represented amongst the derivatives of phosphorus .
The discovery , too , of the primary and secondary arsines , the oxidation of which , as is obvious from the results described in this note , must yield the same acids , will probably not have long to be waited for .
IV .
Primary and Secondary Ethylic Derivatives of Phosphoretted Hydrogen .
Afterwhat has been elicited by the investigation of the methyl compounds , there could be but little doubt as to the phenomena to be observed by repeating the experiments in the ethyl series .
Nevertheless the study of the ethyl compounds presented an interest of its own .
In the first place , it was desirable experimentally to generalize the new method by applying it to different groups ; again the properties likely to be possessed by the ethyl-phosphines , and more particularly their higher boiling-points , appeared to promise that the experimental difficulties of this inquiry would be materially diminished by working in the ethyl series .
The formation of the ethylphosphines by means of ethyl iodide , phospho-nium iodide , and zinc oxide takes place with the same facility and precision as that of the methylated compounds .
The reaction , however , proceeds but slowly at the temperature of boiling water .
Exposure of the tubes to a temperature between 140 ' and 150 ' C. for six or eight hours is sufficient for the transformation .
The product of the reaction in this case , exactly as in that of the methyl series , contains the primary and secondary bases only .
1 heir separation and preparation in a state of purity is carried out in exactly the same manner as that of the corresponding methyl compounds .
Ethylphospkine .
C2H51 c2h_p= h \gt ; p. H J Colourless , transparent , mobile liquid , powerfully refractive , lighter than water , in which it is insoluble .
It is easily soluble in alcohol and ether .
These solutions are without any action on vegetal colours .
Ethylphos-P in boils constantly at 25 ' , and is thus seen to possess exactly the same oiling-point as dimethylphosphine ( p. 227 ) , with which it is isomeric .
)\#171 ; , r CH , T C2 H ~ ] CH3 p = H \gt ; P = Ca Ht P. Hj Hj .
y*e 'd'ur of this compound is overwhelming ; it strongly recalls that 0 t e formonitriles , producing more especially the same sensation of bitter-ess on the tongue and to the very depth of the throat .
Odour and taste 234 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus \lt ; [ Mar. 21 , .
are however , obviously , in consequence of the volatility and oxidability 0f , the compound , far less persistent .
The vapour of ethylphosphme bleaches J cork like chlorine ; very peculiar , too , is its action on caoutchouc , which in | contact with it becomes translucent , losing its elasticity .
Chlorine , bromine , j , and nitric acid inflame the compound .
Ethylphosphine combines with j , sulphur and carbon bisulphide , though far less energetically than tri-ethylphosphine ; nor are the compounds thus produced crystalline , like the corresponding derivative of triethylphosphine ; as yet they are but im^Like themonomethylated base , ethylphosphine unites with chlor- , hrom- , and iodhydric acids to saline compounds .
The solution of the chlor-hydrate yields with platinum perchloride a double salt , crystallizing in fine crimson-red needles , which resemble freshly prepared chromic acid .
The most beautiful salt of ethylphosphine is the iodhydrate .
It forms white four-sided tables , which , in a current of hydrogen , may be sublimed even at the temperature of boiling water .
The aspect of the substance forcibly recalls that of ordinary sal ammoniac .
Analysis showed that this salt possesses the composition assigned to it by theory , viz. : \#171 ; Ca H8 PI = ( C2 H5 ) h2p.hi .
The iodhydrate easily dissolves in water , but not without being entirely decomposed .
In dry air the crystals of the salt are permanent ; but even when breathed upon they are altered , the decomposition being indicated by the powerful odour emanating from the salt , which , when dry , is perfectly inodorous .
When a crystal is thrown upon water , it is seen to disappear with evolution of gas .
Alcohol dissolves the iodhydrate , but only with partial decomposition ; in ether it is insoluble .
The only solvent in which the salt was found to be soluble , though likewise but sparingly , is concentrated iodhydric acid .
Addition of ether to this solution causes the salt to separate in large , well-formed tables , having often a length of 1 centimetre ; they are generally very thin , their surface presenting magnificent iridescence .
Diethylphosphine .
c4h11p = c2 h5 Ip .
H J Transparent , colourless , perfectly neutral , mobile liquid , floating up00 water , in which it is insoluble , powerfully refracting light .
It boils constantly at 85 ' , i. e. 60 ' higher than the primary base .
The odour is p\#174 ; ' netrating and most persistent , very different from that of ethylphosphine ) distantly resembling that of triethylphosphine .
The diethylated compound attracts oxygen with far more energy than the primary base ; more than once have I seen this compound bursting into flame on opening a bottle .
Diethylphosphine combines with sulphur and carbon bisulphide , these combinations , like those of tlje monoethylated base , are liquids .
1872 ] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
The secondary phosphines readily dissolve in acids .
The salts , as far as my experience goes , are difficult to crystallize , with the exception of the .
i0ahydrate .
The solution of the chlorhydrate gives , with platinum per-i chloride , a fine platinum salt , crystallizing in orange-red prisms , which are , j however ' easily changed .
It is interesting to perceive that the salts of ' diethylphosphine resist the action of water , whilst those of the mono-ethylated base are readily decomposed ; the deportment of the phosphines is thus seen to afford an instructive illustration of the increased basicity the phosphoretted molecule acquires with the number of ethyl groups it | has incorporated .
Products of Oxidation of the Primary and Secondary It is my intention to study in detail the products of oxidation of ethyl-and diethylphosphine , which , according to special circumstances , appear to vary to a considerable extent .
Hitherto I have examined only the terminal compounds .
These are perfectly analogous to the products similarly obtained from the methylated bases ; they need not therefore be more than cursorily mentioned .
Ethylphosphinic Acid.\#151 ; Preparation , appearance , and properties of the body obtained by the action of nitric acid upon ethylphosphine resemble in every respect the acid similarly obtained from methylphosphine , and described in a previous communication ( comp .
p. 228 ) .
The ethyl compound is likewise exceedingly soluble in water , alcohol , and ether ; it fuses | at 44 ' , and may be distilled without decomposition .
The formula c2 h7 po3 = ( c2 H5 ) h po3 was fixed by the analysis of a silver-salt .
This salt was formed by saturating the free acid partially with silver oxide , and precipitating the concentrated liquid by alcohol .
It is an amorphous , yellowish powder , insoluble in water and alcohol , the composition of which is represented by the formula ( CaH5 ) AgaPOs .
Diethylphosphinic Acid .
\#151 ; On treating diethylphosphine with nitric acid , all the phenomena present themselves which are observed in the corresponding experiment in the methyl series .
The acid produced , however , has been observed as yet in the liquid state only ; it refuses to solidify even at a temperature of \#151 ; 25 ' .
The composition of the acid , C4 Hue P02 = ( C2 H5)2 H POa , was established by the analysis of a silver compound .
The latter was I obtained by nearly neutralizing the acid by silver oxide and precipitating I the evaporated liquid by alcohol .
The silver diethylphosphinate contains C4 H10 Ag P02 = ( C2 H5)a Ag P02 .
1 The products of oxidation of the ethylated phosphorus bases are thus cj proved to be perfectly analogous to the group of methyl bodies previously j|| described ( p. 232 ) , as seen by glancing at the following Table : ' 236 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar. 2^ ' HO ] Orthophosphoric acid ... ... HO j- PO .
c2h5 ] Ethylphosphinic acid ... ... HO [ PO .
HO J c2h5 ] Diethylphospbinic acid ... .C,2 H. \gt ; PO .
HO J C2 H. ] Triethylphosphinic oxide ... .
C2 H. I PO .
^2 J V. x\.romatic Phosphines .
The well-defined results which the easy and handy use of phosphoniuni iodide , as a source of phosphorus compounds , has furnished in the methyl and ethyl series , and , as I shortly intend to communicate to the Society , also in the propyl , butyl , and amyl series , very naturally created the wish of extending these researches also to the aromatic phosphines .
It appeared especially worthy of interest to study an aniline with phosphorus in the place of nitrogen , \#151 ; in other terms , phenyl phosphine and , indeed , the whole series of phenylated phosphorus bases .
I , have instituted many experiments in the hope of obtaining these bodies , but as yet without success .
Considering the remarkable inactivity of benzol chloride and analogous benzol compounds under the influence of ammonia , I could scarcely hope to form phenylphosphine by acting on phosphonium iodide with benzol chloride .
Nevertheless the experiment was made ; but , although tried under varying conditions , I have not been able to observe the generation of phosphorus bases in this process .
The benzol chloride is reduced to benzol , which itself is then no further changed , even by raising the temperature , as the interesting researches of M. Baeyer have already proved .
But even the action of phosphonium iodide on phenol , from which , looking at the experience gathered in the methyl and ethyl series , I was fairly entitled to hope that at least the tertiary and quartary compounds would emerge , gave rise to changes very different from those anticipated .
The singular phosphorus bodies generated in this reaction claim further examination .
New processes , different from those hitherto followed , must therefore be devised for the production of phenylphosphine .
Exactly as in the formation of phenylphosphine , I have hitherto failed in that of phosphoretted toluidine .
On the other hand , the preparation ot a phosphorus base corresponding to benzylamine presents no difficulty .
C onsidering that benzyl chloride is easily converted into benzylamine by the action of ammonia ( as the researches of Cannizzaro and Limpricbt have shown ) , it could not possibly be doubted that by causing benzyl 1872 ] Dr..A .
W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
237 chloride and phosphonium iodide to meet under appropriate circumstances , an aromatic phosphorus base would be obtained .
For the preparation of this body it is not necessary to employ the benzyl chloride in its pure state .
It suffices to operate with toluol chlorinated whilst hot , which boils between 150 ' and 180 ' .
The substances acting on one another are employed in the same proportions which , in the niethvl and ethyl series , are known to yield satisfactory results , namely 2 mol .
of benzyl chloride , 2 mol .
of phosphonium iodide , and 1 mol .
of zinc oxide .
A digestion of six hours ' duration at 160 ' is sufficient for the formation of benzylphosphine .
When the reaction is finished the digestion-tubes contain a white mass of crystals , which is generally forced out by the phos-phoretted hydrogen escaping when the tubes are opened .
When the product of the reaction was distilled with the vapour of water , an oily liquid , heavier than water , possessing an extremely characteristic persistent odour , passed over .
This was separated from the water by means of a separating funnel , dried by allowing it to stand on caustic potass , and submitted to fractional distillation in a current of hydrogen .
It commenced boiling a few degrees above 100 ' ; the mercury then rose rapidly to 180 ' , at which temperature a large quantity of a colourless , powerfully refractive liquid distilled .
That passing between 180 ' and 190 ' was collected apart from the earlier distillate , consisting chiefly of toluol ( which is regenerated from the benzyl chloride by the phosphonium iodide ) .
The liquid boiling at 180 ' is benzylphosphine ; the residue in the retort contains dibenzylphosphine and other products .
Purified by a second distillation in a current of hydrogen , benzylphosphine is found to have the constant boiling-point 180 ' .
In contact with the air the aromatic phosphorus base attracts oxygen with such avidity that the thermometer rises to 100 ' and more , and thick white clouds are formed .
Benzylphosphine is insoluble in water , but easily so in alcohol and ether .
The aromatic phosphorus base shares the characteristic property of the other primary phosphines , viz. that of forming a crystallizable iod-hydrate .
This is obtained by mixing the phosphine with fuming iodhv-dric acid , when it falls as a white and , apparently , amorphous mass .
The insolubility of the iodine compound presents an easy method of recovering any benzylphosphine that may have passed over in the first distillate containing toluol .
The white precipitate of benzylphosphine iodhydrate dissolves on warming in iodhydric acid , and forms , as the solution cools , " bite needles , often more than a centimetre long , which , in contact with " ater , are decomposed into the acid and base .
By washing with dry ether and drying in a stream of hydrogen at 100 ' , the iodhydrate may Bt nzylphosphine .
238 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Phosphorus Bases .
[ Mar. 21 , easily be obtained in a state of purity for analysis .
In this experiment , occasionally , well-formed tables are produced of considerable dimensions and great beauty .
The salt has the composition\#151 ; C7H10PI=(C7H7)H3P.HI .
Benzylphosphine combines likewise with concentrated chlorbydric and bromhydric acids .
I have not , however , been able to obtain these compounds in crystals .
The chlorhydrate gives with platinum perchloride a yellow insoluble precipitate .
Benzylphosphine is formed according to the equation 2C .
II7 C1 + 2[H3 P.IIIJ + Zn 0=2[(C7II7 ) IIa P.III ] + Zn Cl2+ H20 .
This equation , however , shows only one phase of the reaction , in which at the same time several other substances are formed .
JOibemylphosphine , C7H7 ] cuh15p=c7h7 Ip .
H J This compound is found in the liquid remaining in the retort after the distillation of benzylphosphine .
By long standing , especially in the presence of solid alkali , this fluid solidifies to a soft mass of crystals , which are collected on a linen filter , in order to free them , by pressing , as much as possible from adhering liquid .
The still strongly coloured crystals are then dissolved in alcohol and treated with a little animal charcoal .
The colourless liquid thus obtained deposits on cooling beautiful white crystals of the new compound .
By repeated crystallization from boiling alcohol , dibenzylphosphine is obtained in a perfectly pure state .
Thus prepared , the phosphine forms large brilliant needles , mostly grouped in stars or glistening tufts , perfectly tasteless and colourless , which are insoluble in water , but dissolve , though sparingly , in boiling alcohol .
In ether they are nearly insoluble .
The crystals melt at 205 ' ; at a higher temperature they are volatilized , but not without partial decomposition .
With the entrance of the second benzyl group , the basic characters , which in the monobenzylphosphine are still distinctly perceptible , have entirely disappeared .
Dibenzylphosphine does not dissolve in acid , nor have I succeeded in obtaining a platinum salt .
In this respect the aromatic secondary phosphine essentially differs from the analogous bodies in the ethyl and methyl series , which are well-marked bases .
The absence of basic properties cannot , however , be looked upon as strange , since even in the secondary aromatic amines we find the tendency to form saline compounds very nearly effaced .
The difference of dibenzylphosphine from the corresponding terms in the methyl and ethyl series becomes obvious , moreover , by its behaviour with oxygen ; for whilst dimethyl- and diethylphosphine take fire on contact with air at the ordinary temperature , oxygen is without any action , even at an elevated temperature , on the dibenzylated phosphorus 1872 .
] On Heterogenetic Modes of Origin of Infusoria 239 base .
As dibenzylphosphine yields no compounds , I was limited to the analysis of the body itself .
This analysis led to the formula\#151 ; C14H15P .
The formation of dibenzylphosphine takes place according to the equation\#151 ; 2C7 H7 CI+H3P.HI + ZnO = ( CT 1IT)2 HP .
HI + ZnCl3+H2 O. Benzylphospliine and dibenzylphosphine are not the only phosphoretted products of the action of benzyl chloride on phosphonium iodide .
The mother-liquor of dibenzylphosphine contains yet another phosphorus body .
The idea naturally suggested itself that it might be tribenzylphosphine ; but , notwithstanding many efforts , I have not succeeded in obtaining this compound .
The mother-liquor of dibenzylphosphine consists , for the greater part , of a viscous substance , soluble in alcohol but insoluble in water , which is precipitated by lead-salts .
This substance tenaciously adheres to a small quantity of a crystallizable body , which most probably is no other than dibenzylphosphine .
All attempts to obtain this glutinous substance ( which appears to possess acid properties ) in a condition fit for analysis have hitherto failed .
In conclusion I may be allowed most warmly to thank Messrs. F. IIo-brecker and E. Mylius for the untiring perseverance with which they have ( the former in the earlier stages , the latter more recently ) assisted me in these researches .
II .
" On some Heterogenetic Modes of Origin of Flagellated Monads , Fungus-germs , and Ciliated Infusoria .
" By H. Charlton Bastian , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Professor of Pathological Anatomy in University College , London .
Received February 15 , 1872 .
The " pellicle " that forms on infusions of organic matter which are exposed to the air is composed for the most part of a dense aggregation of Bacteria of various sizes and shapes imbedded in a more or less abundant , pellucid , gelatinous material .
Very frequently there are also a variable number of intermixed Vibriones and more or less characteristic The Bacteria in this layer are mostly placed vertically to the surface , so that an examination of it under the microscope generally reveals the appearance of a stratum densely studded with small though tolerably uniform granules .
On attempting to remove a portion of this pellicle , it is found to constitute a more or less coherent membrane .
It is now a well-known fact that when two or more Amoebae chance to come into close contact with one another , they may fuse so as to constitute a larger individual of the same kind , which afterwards creeps about and seizes food as its component parts had previously done .
Such a process must be classed under the head of Homogenetic Biocrasis ; for , although

