204 Sir W. Eamsay and Mr. F. Soddy .
Radioactivity [ July 28 , forms nitrous fumes when acted upon by the radium rays or by light .
Becquerel* mentions the case of mercuric chloride which in presence of oxalic acid is decomposed by light rays , and by radium rays .
" Experiments in Eadioactivity , and the Production of Helium from Badium .
" By Sir William Eamsay , K.C.B. , F.E.S. , and Frederick Soddy , M.A. Eeceived July 28 , 1903 .
1 .
Experiments on the Radioactivity of the Inert Gases of the Atmosphere .
Of recent years many investigations have been made by Elster and Geitel , Wilson , Strutt , Butherford , Cooke , Allen , and others on the spontaneous ionisation of the gases of the atmosphere and on the excited radioactivity obtainable from it .
It became of interest to ascertain whether the inert monatomic gases of the atmosphere bear any share in these phenomena .
For this purpose a small electroscope contained in a glass tube of about 20 c.c. capacity , covered in the interior with tin-foil , was employed .
After charging , the apparatus if exhausted retained its charge for thirty-six hours without diminution .
Admission of air caused a slow discharge .
In similar experiments with helium , neon , argon , krypton , and xenon , the last mixed with oxygen , the rate of discharge was proportional to the density and pressure of the gas .
This shows that the gases have no special radioactivity of their own , and accords with the explanation already advanced by these investigators that the discharging power of the air is caused by extraneous radioactivity .
Experiments were also made with the dregs left after liquefied air had nearly entirely evaporated , and again with the same result ; no increase in discharging power is produced by concentration of a possible radioactive constituent of the atmosphere .
2 .
Experiments on the Nature of the Radioactive Emanation from Radium .
The word emanation originally used by Boyle ( " substantial emanations from the celestial bodies " ) was resuscitated by Butherford to designate definite substances of a gaseous nature continuously produced from other substances .
The term was also used by Bussell ( " emanation from hydrogen peroxide " ) in much the same sense .
If the adjective " radioactive " be added , the phenomenon of Butherford is distinguished from the phenomena observed by Bussell .
* Ibid , , vol. 133 , 1901 , p. 709 .
1903 .
] and the production of Helium from Radium .
205 In this section we are dealing with the emanation , or radioactive gas obtained from radium .
Rutherford and Soddy investigated the chemical nature of the thorium emanation* and of the radium emanation , !
and came to the conclusion that these emanations are inert gases which withstand the action of reagents in a manner hitherto unobserved except with the members of the argon family .
This conclusion was arrived at because the emanations from thorium and radium could be passed without alteration over platinum and palladium black , chromate of lead , zinc dust , and magnesium powder , all at a red-heat .
We have since found that the radium emanation withstands prolonged sparking with oxygen over alkali , and also , during several hours , the action of a heated mixture of magnesium powder and lime .
The discharging power was maintained unaltered after this treatment , and inasmuch as a considerable amount of radium was employed it was possible to use the self-luminosity of the gas as an optical demonstration of its persistence .
In an experiment in which the emanation mixed with oxygen had been sparked for several hours over alkali , a minute fraction of the total mixture was found to discharge an electroscope almost instantly .
From the main quantity of the gas the oxygen was withdrawn by ignited phosphorus , and no visible residue was left .
When , however , another gas was introduced , so as to come into contact with the top of the tube , and then withdrawn , the emanation was found to be present in it in unaltered amount .
It appears , therefore , that phosphorus burning in oxygen and sparking with oxygen have no effect upon the gas so far as can be detected by its radioactive properties .
The experiments with magnesium-lime were more strictly quantitative .
The method of testing the gas before and after treatment with the reagent was to take ^rnnrth part of the whole mixed with air , and after introducing it into the reservoir of an electroscope to measure the rate of discharge .
The magnesium-lime tube glowed brightly when the mixture of emanation and air was admitted , and it was maintained at a red heat for three hours .
The gas was then washed out with a little hydrogen , diluted with air and tested as before .
It was found that the discharging power of the gas had been .quite unaltered by this treatment .
The emanation can be dealt with as a gas ; it can be extracted by aid of a Topler pump ; it can be condensed in a U-tube surrounded by liquid air ; and when condensed it can be " washed " with another gas which can be pumped off completely , and which then possesses no luminosity and practically no discharging power .
The passage of the .emanation from place to place through glass tubes can be followed by * ' Pliil .
Mag. , ' 1902 , p. 580 .
f Ibid. , 1903 , p. 457 .
206 Sir W. Earn say and Mr. E. Soddy .
[ July 28 , the eye in a darkened room .
On opening a stopcock between a tube containing the emanation and the pump , the slow flow through the capillary tube can be noticed ; the rapid passage along the wider tubes ; the delay caused by the plug of phosphorus pentoxide , and the sudden diffusion into the reservoir of the pump .
When compressed , the luminosity increased , and when the small bubble was expelled through the capillary it was exceedingly luminous .
The peculiarities of the excited activity left behind on the glass by the emanation could also be well observed .
When the emanation had been left a short time in contact with the glass , the excited activity lasts only for a short time ; but after the emanation has been stored a long time the excited activity decays more slowly .
The emanation causes chemical change in a similar manner to the salts of radium themselves .
The emanation pumped off from 50 milligrams of radium bromide after dissolving in water , when stored with oxygen in a small glass tube over mercury turns the glass distinctly violet in a single night ; if moist the mercury becomes covered with a film of the red oxide , but if dry it appears to remain unattacked .
A mixture of the emanation with oxygen produces carbon dioxide when passed through a lubricated stopcock .
3 .
Occurrence of Helium in the Gases Evolved from Bromide .
The gas evolved from 20 milligrams of pure radium bromide ( which we are informed had been prepared three months ) by its solution in water and which consisted mainly of hydrogen and oxygen* was tested for helium , the hydrogen and oxygen being removed by contact with a red-hot spiral of copper wire , partially oxidised , and the resulting water vapour by a tube of phosphorus pentoxide .
The gas issued into a small vacuum-tube which showed the spectrum of carbon dioxide .
The vacuum tube was in train with a small U-tube , and the latter was then cooled with liquid air .
This much reduced the brilliancy of the CCT spectrum , and the Da line of helium appeared .
The coincidence was confirmed by throwing the spectrum of helium into the spectroscope through the comparison prism , and shown to be at least within 05 of an Angstrom unit .
The experiment was carefully repeated in apparatus constructed of previously unused glass with 30 milligrams of radium bromide , probably four or five months old , kindly lent us by Professor Eutherford .
The gases evolved were passed through a cooled U-tube on their way to the vacuum-tube , which completely prevented the passage of carbon dioxide and the emanation .
The spectrum of helium was obtained and practically all the lines were seen , including those at 6677 , 5876 , 5016 , * Cf .
Giesel , 'Ber .
, ' 1903 , 347 .
1903 .
] and the production of Helium from Radium .
207 4932 , 4713 , and 4472 .
There were also present three lines of approximate wave-lengths 6180 , 5695 , 5455 , that have not yet been identified .
On two subsequent occasions the gases evolved from both solutions of radium bromide were mixed , after four days ' accumulation which amounted to about 2-5 c.c. in each case , and were examined in a similar way .
The D3 line of helium could not be detected .
It may be well to state the composition found for the gases continuously generated by a solution of radium , for it seemed likely that the large excess of hydrogen over the composition required to form water , shown in the analysis given by Bodlander* might be due to the greater solubility of the oxygen .
In our analyses the gases were extracted with the pump , and the first gave 28'6 , the second 29-2 per cent , of oxygen .
The slight excess of hydrogen is doubtless due to the action of the oxygen on the grease of the stop-cocks , which has been already mentioned .
The rate of production of these gases is about 0-5 c.c. per day for 50 milligrams of radium bromide , which is over twice as great as that found by Bodliinder .
4 .
Production of Helium by the Radium Emanation .
The maximum amount of the emanation obtained from 50 milligrams of radium bromide was conveyed by means of oxygen into a U-tube cooled in liquid air , and the latter was then extracted by the pump .
It was then washed out with a little fresh oxygen which was again pumped off .
The vacuum tube sealed on to the U-tube , after removing the liquid air showed no trace of helium .
The spectrum was apparently a new one , probably that of the emanation , but this has not yet been completely examined , and we hope to publish further details shortly .
After standing from the 17th to the 21st inst .
the helium spectrum appeared , and the characteristic lines were observed identical in position with those of a helium tube thrown into the field of vision at the same time .
On the 22nd the yellow , the green , the two blues and the violet were seen , and in addition the three new lines also present in the helium obtained from radium .
A confirmatory experiment gave identical results .
We wish to express our indebtedness to the Research Fund of the Chemical Society for a part of the radium used in this investigation .
* 'Ber .
' ( loc. cit. ) .

