875 .
] Mr. G. Gore on the Rotations of Bar-magnets , fyc .
121 lirn ( G. A. ) Exposition analytique et experimental de la Theory Mecanique de la Chaleur .
3\#174 ; Edition .
Tome I. 8vo .
Paris 1875 .
Theory analytique elementaire du Planimetre Amsler .
8vo .
Paris 1875 .
The Author .
Cronig ( \#151 ; ) Das Dasein Gottes und das Gluck der Menschen , materi-alistisch-erfahrungsphilosophische Studien .
8yo .
Berlin 1874 .
The Author .
darchand ( E. ) Etude sir la Eorce Chimique contenue dans la lumiere du Soleil , la Mesure de sa puissance et la determination des climats qu'elle caracterise .
8vo .
Paris 1875 .
Pieces justificatives .
The Author .
Im6e ( A. H. ) Milk in Health and Disease .
12mo .
London 1875 .
The Author .
Rockwell ( J. N. ) Theory of the Moon 's Motion .
8vo .
Philadelphia 1875 .
The Author .
Wallich ( Dr. G. C. ) On the true Nature of the so-called " Bathybius , " and its alleged Eunction in the Nutrition of the Protozoa .
8vo .
London 1875 .
The Author .
Map of New South Wales .
Mounted .
The Proprietors of the ' Sydney Mail/ December 9 , 1875 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents : The Treasurer .
Prof. J. C. Adams .
Capt. Evans .
Dr. Gunther .
Dr. W. Pole .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. u On some Electro-magnetic Rotations of Bar-magnets and Conducting-wires on their Axes .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received August 30 , 1874 .
Revised October 1875 .
1 .
In all the published forms of Ampere 's experiment of the electromagnetic rotation of a vertical bar-magnet or conducting-wire upon its VOL. XXIV .
K Mr. G. Gore on Rotations [ Dec. 9 , axis by Ampere , Faraday , Sturgeon , and others , the magnet or wire has either been immersed a large portion of its depth in mercury , or i4 middle part has been connected by a wire with a surrounding annular channel filled with mercury , and the electric current passed into , or out of the magnet or wire by means of that liquid , and the mercury has formed an essential part of the arrangement .
2 .
In different treatises on electro-magnetism , either no explanation or different ones are given of the cause of the rotation of the magnet or wire .
The most usual cause assigned is the action of the portion of current in the mercury and the fixed conductor immersed in it upon the current in the rotating wire or magnet ; and the correctness of this explanation is proved by the simultaneous movement of the mercury in the opposite direction .
De la Eive , in his Treatise on Electricity ( English edition , 1853 , vol i. page 259 ) , very eorrectly remarks , " It must not be supposed that the phenomenon of rotation is due , as has been erroneously stated , to the action upon the magnet of the portions of the current that traverse it , or that traverse the conducting-wires attached to the magnet and move with it .
In fact , how could a solid system be set in motion by a force emanating from a portion of the very system itself , and connected with it in an indissoluble manner ?
The action can only arise from a part of the current which is independent of the system that moves .
This part is the portion of the circuit which is not connected with the magnet that is set in rotation , and which consequently is situated independent of the system in motion .
This kind of action has been calculated by M. .Ampere in a perfectly rigorous manner .
" 3 .
Although the action of the portion of the current in the mercury and the fixed conductor in contact with it upon the movable current in the rotating wore or magnet is a cause of the movement , there are other circumstances which cooperate to produce the rotation , and which are themselves capable , without assistance , of producing it .
Wiedemann* and myself t have shown that an electric current passing from one end to the other of a magnetized iron rod or wire having dissimilar poles at its two extremities produces torsion of the wire ( the two ends of the wire moving of course in opposite directions ) , and that reversing the direction either of the current or of the magnetic polarity , reverses the direction of the twist .
In all published cases of rotation of bar-magnets on their axes by the influence of electric currents , the two ends of the magnet have had dissimilar poles .
By meditating upon certain facts connected with this subject , I concluded that , by passing a current from one end to the other of a magnetized rod or wire having similar poles at its two ends , the magnet would probably rotate ; and experiment has demonstrated that conclusion .
* " Magnet ischen Un ter such ungen , " Pogg .
Ann. 1862 , vol. cxvii .
p. 193 .
t " On Electro-torsion , " Phil. Trans. 1874 .
fl 1875 .
] of Bar-magnets and Conducting-wires .
123 4 .
Upon a thin wooden tube 15 centims. long- and 7 millims. bore I round a cotton-covered copper wire 1*7 millim. diameter from one \gt ; nd of the tube to the middle , then reversed the direction of winding ind continued to the other end and back to the middle , again reversed md coiled to the first end of the tube ; by which arrangement the passage of a current through the coils produced two similar poles at the ends of the tube , and two others of the opposite kind at the middle .
The tube being now fixed in a vertical position , a straight iron wire L5 centims. long and 1*8 millim. diameter , pointed at its lower end and surmounted by a brass mercury-cup 5 millims. diameter , containing a Irop of mercury , was supported entirely within the tube and free to rotate , by a similar cup ( surmounting a fixed vertical brass rod ) , at the tower end of the tube , the upper end of the axial wire being kept in position by a vertical brass rod fixed above the coil and terminated at its Lower end by a sharp point of platinum in the mercury-cup .
A current from 6 one-pint Grove 's elements arranged as 3 being now passed through the coil , brass rods , and axial wire , the latter rotated rapidly .
With a downward current through the axial wire , and north poles * at the ends of the tube , the upper end of the wire rotated in the same direction as the hands of a watch .
Reversing the direction of the current either in the coil or iron rod , reversed of course the direction of motion .
The rotation in this case was not due to obliquity of coil-current , because that was neutralized by the second layer of coils ; nor to portions of transverse currents proceeding to or from the brass rods , because each of those portions was 10 centims. distant from the ends of the axial wire ; nor was it due to the portions of current entering or leaving the coil , because they entered and left at the same part and in parallel directions , and thus neutralized each other 's effect .
A copper wire substituted for the iron one would not rotate , probably because copper is so little capable of acquiring longitudinal magnetism .
5 .
To ascertain if the rotation was merely due to an action of the current in the coil upon either the axial current or longitudinal magnetism of the iron , or whether the coil-current simply performed the function of longitudinally magnetizing the axial wire , I took an iron wire 23 centims. long and 2*7 millims. diameter , sharp-pointed at its lower end , soldered to its upper end a double wire of cotton-covered copper , each wire being 1*7 millim. diameter , coiled the double wire upon the axial rod in two layers ( so as to enable two similar poles to be formed at the extremities of the axis ) , and terminated the copper wires by a little brass mercury-cup * By a North pole I mean that which points to the South , and by a South one that which seeks the North .
Because if we call that end of a magnet the north which is repelled by the south pole of the earth and attracted by the north pole , we call by dissimilar and opposite names two things which are essentially alike , and by similar names two things which are essentially different and opposite .
Mr. G. Gore on the Rotations [ Dec. 9 , just above the top end of the vertical iron axis .
By supporting this apparatus as the axial wire in the previous experiment , and passing the current , rotation occurred , showing that the chief use at least of the coil-current was to impart longitudinal magnetism to the axial wire , and that the rotation was not simply due to any reaction between the coil and that wire .
Reversing the direction of the current did not reverse the direction of rotation .
In another experiment similar to this , I formed about 12 centims. in length of the middle part of the axial wire of copper instead of iron , and obtained similar rotation ; but as copper is only slightly capable of acquiring longitudinal magnetism from a coil-current surrounding it , a precisely similar apparatus having an axial wire composed entirely of that metal would not rotate .
These experiments and the following ones produce a striking effect in a lecture , because the rotation appears to be produced without reaction of the moving part of the apparatus upon any external or fixed body .
6 .
To determine whether the longitudinal element of the coil-current obtained by obliquity of winding of the wire might be substituted for the longitudinal current through the magnet , I took an iron wire 13 centims. long and 1*7 millim. diameter , sharp-pointed at its lower end , soldered near to that end one extremity of a cotton-covered copper wire 1*7 millim. in diameter , coiled the latter in one direction to the middle part of the iron wire , then reversed the direction of winding and coiled to the other end of the iron , and terminated the coil by a little brass cup just above the upper end of the iron wire as before .
By supporting this apparatus as in the previous experiments , and passing the current , rapid rotation took place , proving that a longitudinal current in the iron itself was not necessary .
7 .
To ascertain whether the longitudinal element of the current was essential to the motion , I constructed a similar apparatus to the last , but instead of attaching the upper end of the coil wire direct to the brass cup , I continued the copper wire vertically downwards to the bottom of the coil , to neutralize the effect of obliquity of winding ; then carried it outwards and upwards in the form of a large rectangle 5 centims. distant from the coil and on to the mercury-cup , as shown in fig. 1 .
On passing the current rotation occurred freely , showing that the longitudinal current was not essential to the motion .
This experiment , and that described in paragraph 4 , appears to prove that the rotation is not an effect of any obliquity or spiral arrangement of the axes of the magnetized iron molecules with regard to the axis of the wire , produced by the combined action of the transverse and longitudinal elements of the current in the coil , because the latter element was neutralized , but that it is an effect of the tangential poleless magnetism in the fixed wires above i 1875 .
] of Bar-magnets and Conducting-wires .
125 t and below upon the longitudinal magnetism of the movable iron axis and its coil .
8 .
As an electric solenoid , however , possesses in some degree many of \#163 ; the properties of a magnet , its longitudinal magnetism , though feeble , must have operated in some of the previous experiments ; and I therefore now tried to obtain rotation of one by the action of vertical currents .
I Upon a very thin wooden tube 15 centims. long and 12 millims. external diameter I coiled a single stout cotton-covered copper wire from one end to the other , reversing the direction of winding at the middle of the tube , and surmounting the upper end of the wire by a small brass cup containing mercury .
The lower end of the wire was sharply pointed , and the coil was supported as in the previous experiment .
By passing the current from 6 one-pint Grove 's elements arranged as 3 , faint signs of rotation were observed .
9 .
In each of these cases of rotation an upward vertical current entering a lower south pole or leaving an upper one caused the upper end of the rod to rotate in the direction of the hands of a watch , and a downward current entering or leaving a north pole also produced that direction of motion , and reversing the poles in either case reversed the effect .
10 .
In each of these instances of rotation , without the aid of a current near the middle of the magnet , the coil being so constructed that the current in it could not be reversed without reversing that in the fixed conductors near it , reversing the direction of the current did not reverse that of the rotation , because the two acting influences were reversed together ; and therefore each apparatus had its own direction of rotation , either right-handed or left-handed ( \#163 ; ~\)* , according to the direction in which its coils were wound .
It follows from this that a current the direction of which is alternately reversed will drive the apparatus quite as well as one in one uniform direction .
11 .
As the rotation was apparently due to the influence of the tangential poleless magnetism of the portions of vertical current in the fixed conductors upon the longitudinal magnetism of the vertical iron axis and its coils , I now endeavoured to increase the effect .
Bor this purpose I substituted for the upper brass rod a fixed coil consisting of one layer of copper wire upon an iron wire axis , but having dissimilar poles at its ends and no poles at its middle part , and placed between it and the lower brass rod a similar right-handed one to that described in paragraph 6 and free to rotate .
The opposed poles of the fixed and movable coils were of opposite kinds , i. e. north and south .
On passing a current from a Noe 's thermopile of 96 elements f connected as 24 , rapid rotation in a right-handed direction occurred .
I now substituted for the * By a " right-handed " coil , I mean one the upper end of which rotates in the same direction as the hands of a watch , t I hare found , this apparatus very convenient for such experiments .
126 Mr. G. Gore on the Rotations [ Dec. lower brass rod another fixed coil , similar to the upper one , but of an opposite direction of polarity , and passed the current again ; still more rapid rotation in the same direction took place , and the effect was very striking .
In this latter instance two south poles free to move were opposed to two fixed north poles , and in each instance the current was passed upwards .
In the second experiment also the longitudinal magnetic influence of each opposed iron axis and coil acted upon the tangential magnetism of the longitudinal element of the end of the copper coil-current opposed to it , and thus both the longitudinal and the tangential magnetism of each of the four opposed ends cooperated to produce a most effective result .
With a thicker axial wire in the moving coil the rotation was not so rapid ; and with an axial wire of the usual thickness , but a double layer of copper-wire coils , and the current passing through the axial wire , the rapidity of rotation was not much altered , probably because the increased weight and friction counteracted the effect of the increased magnetism* By substituting for the right-handed movable coil with south poles at its extremities , in these experiments , a left-handed one with north poles at its ends opposed to north poles of the fixed ones , and passing the current , no rotation occurred : in this case the longitudinal element of the current in the movable coil , acting upon the longitudinal magnetism of the fixed iron axis and its coil , tended to produce rotation in one direction , and the longitudinal magnetism of the movable axis and its coil , acting upon the longitudinal element of the current in the fixed coil , tended to produce rotation in the opposite direction .
12 .
I now substituted for the movable coil a vertical wire of iron 13 eentims .
long and 1*7 millim. diameter , surmounted by a small brass mercury-cup , passed the current from the thermopile , and obtained rotation , but less rapid than before , probably because of the less degree of longitudinal magnetism ; but by enclosing this wire in the axis of a fixed coil which produced appropriate and similar poles at its two ends , as in paragraph 4 , and repeating the experiment , very great velocity of rotation was obtained .
Rotation of a somewhat thicker wire of nickel was also obtained , both with and without the aid of the current in the middle fixed coil .
I also tried , without the aid of the middle fixed coil and with it , a copper wire of similar dimensions to the iron one , and obtained rotation freely : in this case the motion was probably nearly wholly due to the action of the longitudinal magnetism of the adjacent ends of the fixed axial wires and their coils upon the tangential magnetism produced in the movable copper wire by the axial current .
Each of these rotations agreed in direction with those of the movable coil .
13 .
The apparatus represented in fig. 2 was employed for nearly all the various modifications of the experiment , by substituting for one or more of the coils metallic wires \amp ; c. as desired .
The upper part of the brass pillar A was capable of sliding in the lower part B , and ,1875 .
] of Bar-magnets and Conducting-wires .
127 could be fixed by a screw C , which encircled the split end of the tube B. The fine adjustment was effected by means of the screw D , the lower Fig. 2 .
end of which rested upon the top of a tall brass rod inside the brass pillar .
The upper and lower fixed coils or rods E and E were insulated from the brass clips G- and H , and the battery was attached to the binding-screws I and J. K is a binding-screw for connecting with the upper coil or rod .
14 .
I also obtained rotation of the iron wire whilst the wire was in a horizontal position , its ends resting in hollows in the ends of the iron axes of the two fixed coils , and the ends of those axes and of the movable wire lying upon the surface of pools of mercury in small watch-glasses .
The movable iron wire was enclosed in the axis of a thin iron tube within a fixed coil , having appropriate and similar poles at its ends .
The current from the thermopile produced very rapid rotation .
This 128 Mr. G. Gore on the Rotations of fyc .
[ Dec. 9 , result proves that the rotations are not due to terrestrial magnetic influence .
15 .
As the directions of magnetic polarity , electric current* and rotation agree with those in the different forms of Ampere 's experiment , and as in most , if not all , of the previously known cases of rotation of a bar-magnet or conducting-wire on its axis an electric current passes through the end of the bar or wire , it is evident that those rotations were due , not only to the portions of current in the mercury and fixed conductors connected with it near the middle of the magnet or wire , but also to the influence of the currents in the fixed conductors near the ends of the magnet or wire .
[ Note added September 1875.\#151 ; It having been suggested by Professors Maxwell and Stokes that the rotation in the foregoing experiments was due to the influence of the portions of current in the cups of mercury or in the fixed conductors near the ends of the movable wire or magnet upon the movable magnet , I diminished the internal diameter , both of the upper and lower cups , from 4 millims. to 1*75 miUim .
, and arranged the following apparatus and experiment .
The fixed upper wire was of brass , 2*5 millims. diameter and 60 millims. long ; it had no coil upon it , and was used as a conductor only ; its lower end terminated in a fine point of a steel needle projecting 6 millims. The lower fixed wire ( also used as a conductor only ) was of platinum , to resist the action of the mercury ; it was 2*3 millims. diameter and 75 .millims .
long , with a cavity in its upper end 3v5 millims. deep and 1*75 millim. diameter , and containing a thin plate of ruby in its lower part , with a minute hole in the centre for the needle-point to rotate in .
The movable wire was 2*5 millims. diameter and 125 millims. long , its upper half being composed of soft iron and its lower half of brass ; its lower end terminated in a needle-point like that of the upper fixed wire , and its upper end had a cavity and perforated ruby plate like that in the lower fixed wire .
A voltaic coil 60 millims. long and 7 millims. internal diameter , composed of four layers of cotton covered with stout copper wire , was used to magnetize the iron half of the movable wire , and fixed by means of a separate support in a proper vertical position beforehand , so as to enclose in its axis the iron wire portion only .
The little cups were also each half filled with a minute globule of mercury before putting the movable wire into its place .
After adjusting the wire so as to make rotation easy , a current from 6 Grove 's elements of one-pint capacity arranged as a series of 6 , also as a double series of 3 , was passed through the coil and vertical wires , and the direction of the portion of the current in the coil alone , also in the vertical wires alone , was varied ; but notwithstanding that plenty of current passed , no signs of rotation could be detected .
These results , therefore , strongly support the opinion that the rotation in the experiments was due to the action of the portions of the current in the cups of mercury .
]

