PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
" An Experimental Research upon Cerebro-cortical Afferent and Efferent Tracts .
" By David Ferrier , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Neuropathology , and William Aldren Turner , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Demonstrator of Neuropathology , King 's College , London .
Received May 25.\#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( From the Neuropathological Laboratory , King 's College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) The primary object of the research has been to elucidate by the aid of destructive lesions , and the study of the consecutive degenerations , the tracts by which impressions of general and special sensibility are conveyed to the cortex of the brain .
For this purpose , the cortical area , supposed to be the sensory centre under consideration , was extirpated ; and , secondly , the nerve , tract or primary ganglionic structure connected therewith was divided or destroyed .
In this way strands of degeneration w^ere induced , in due course , of cortical afferent or efferent nature , revealed by the osmium-bichro-mate method of Marchi .
The systems upon which experiments have been performed were:\#151 ; ( a ) The cerebral portion of the visual system , consisting of removal of the occipital lobe , extirpation of the angular gyrus , destruction of the pulvinar thalami , and division of the splenium corporis callosi .
The degenerations showed that this portion of the visual system was composed of a corticifugal tract , passing from the occipital lobe , by way of the optic radiations , to the pulvinar thalami of the same side , and to the anterior quadrigeminal bodies of the same and partly of the other side .
The angular gyrus has no descending or efferent tract to the basal ganglia , but is connected by means of association VOL. LXII .
2 Prof. D. Ferrier and Dr. W. A. Turner .
fibres with the superior temporal gyrus , the superior parietal lobule , and the occipital lobe .
A system of corticipetal fibres was traced from the optic thalamus to the angular gyrus and the occipital lobe , in which lobe their distribution was as well marked in the external convolutions as in the cuneus and lips of the calcarine fissure .
The angular gyri and occipital lobes are commissurally connected through the splenium and forceps corporis callosi ; the callosal fibres having the same cortical distribution as the thalamic fibres .
In this respect our observations are in harmony with those of von Monakow and Vialet .
( b ) The experiments upon the auditory system consisted of section of the eighth nerve distal , as well as proximal , to the accessory auditory ganglion ; destruction of the posterior quadrigeminal body and the internal geniculate ganglion , and extirpation of the superior temporal gyrus .
Inasmuch as the experiments necessitated division of the pedun-culus flocculi , the degenerations consequent thereon were first eliminated .
These were traced into Deiters ' nucleus , the vermis cerebelli , and tegmentum pontis , corresponding with the observations of Bruce and Stscherbach by the myelination method .
The direct connexions of the vestibular division , as shown by section of the eighth nerve trunk distal to the auditory ganglion , are with Deiters ' nucleus and the tegmentum ; while there is also a probable direct connexion with the nucleus of the sixth nerve .
The connexions of the cochlear division , forming the central auditory tract , were found to pass from the accessory auditory , ganglion by way of the corpus trapezo'ides , in association with the lateral fillet , to the internal geniculate body of the opposite side .
Thence a tract was found to ascend to the superior temporal gyrus .
This forms the corticipetal or cerebral auditory tract .
Degeneration was also traced after destruction of the auditory ganglion into both superior olives , and posterior quadrigeminal tubercles , chiefly of the opposite side .
These results are compared with those of Blechsig , Kolliker , \amp ; c. , obtained by other methods of investigation .
After destruction of the superior temporal gyrus a tract of degeneration was found to descend to the upper part of the pons Varolii , through the outer fifth of the pes cruris .
This constitutes the temporo-pontine tract of Bechterew and Dejerine .
The superior temporal gyri are commissurally connected through the forceps of the corpus callosum , and by means of association fibres with the angular gyrus and occipital lobe .
( c ) The cutaneous sensory and other corticipetal systems were studied by the aid of destructive lesions of the tegment of the pons Varolii , crus cerebri , optic thalamus , the posterior Cerebro-cortical A fferent and Efferent Tracts .
quadrigeminal body and adjacent tegment .
Those which specially caused cutaneous anaesthesia were lesions involving the reticular formation of the tegment of the pons and crus .
In some of these cases there was no obvious loss of cutaneous sensibility , w'hile in others this was pronounced .
In both cases , however , corticipetal degenerations were induced .
These were traced through both limbs of the internal capsule , the external capsule , and the centrum ovale to the cerebral cortex , both on the convexity and mesial aspect , including the gyrus fornicatus .
This corticipetal system is less extensive in the frontal than in the other regions of the cerebrum .
It would seem to harmonise with the thalamic corticipetal fibres , which Flechsig has recently described as the first , second , and third " sensory " systems , ascending respectively to the Rolandic area , the falciform lobe , the frontal region and gyrus fornicatus , myelinating at different periods .
Many of these fibres of the tegmentum appear to pass through the optic thalamus without endiug in it , while others terminate in this ganglion .
This is shown by the fact that destruction of the lateral and ventral parts of the optic thalamus led to a more extensive degeneration than that following destruction of the tegmentum alone , the fibres degenerating towards the same cortical regions .
But we have not been able to distinguish , by the degenerative method , between those of sensation proper and the other afferent fibres which ascend to the cortex in this region .
Many fibres from the optic thalamus were found to cross by the corpus callosum to the opposite cerebral hemisphere , thus supporting the view of Hamilton that this structure is a decussation as well as a commissure .
Our observations show that the decussation is of thalamic corticipetal fibres .
( d ) The other afferent cranial nerves , which were made the subject of experiment , were the sensory division of the trigeminus , .
, and the glossopharyngeus , which were divided proximal to their ganglia .
Apart , from degeneration of the so-called ascending ' trigeminal and glossopharyngeal roots , traceable as far as the spinal-medullary junction , no evidence was obtained as to their central continuation .
But the symptoms following lesion of the tegmentum cruris placed the sensory fibres from the face in association with those from the body and limbs .
( e ) The experiments upon the prefrontal and frontal areas confirmed the existence of a fronto-pontine tract , which descends through the anterior limb of the internal capsule and the inner portion of the pes cruris to the pons Varolii .
The subjects of experiment were exclusively monkeys .

