XXIX .
Observations made in Savoy , in order to ascertain the height of Mountains by means of the Barometer ; being an Examination of Mr. De Luc 's Rules , delivered in his Recherches sir les Modifications de l'Atmosphere .
By Sir George Shuckburgh , Bart. F. R. S. IN the course of my tour into Italy in the years 1775 and 1776 , I made some stay at Geneva ; which being in the neighbourhood of the Alps , and on that account a convenient home , induced me to make some observations upon those mountains , which have been deservedly objects of attention to the most incurious traveller .
I was particularly desirous of verifying the experiments with the barometer , in taking heights of different situations ; a method that has been long known to the ingenious , though but rarely practised , and capable of but little precision till within these few years ; and perhaps at present not so generally ' known as the convenience and utility of the method seems to require .
I had provided myself with a considerable collection of instruments , or a kind of portable philosophical cabinet , which I had had VOL. LXVII .
Xxx made Read May 8 and 15 , made expressly in London and Paris , in order to make such experiments as might present themselves to me en courrant ; and which , either from want of acquaintance with the subject , want of time , or want of money , become rarely the object of travellers ; but remain wholly unknown till princely munificence and philosophic zeal ( of which we have a recent instance ) unite in producing them to the world .
After the very celebrated and ingenious labours of Mr. DE LUC , farther investigation of the subject of barometrical measurement might seem unnecessary , if not invidious ; but , furnished as I was with an apparatus every way sufficient for the inquiry , finding myself in the country which had been the scene of his operations , and possessing some share of his own zeal , I could not but gratify the curiosity I had to verify and repeat his experiments : if therefore in the pursuit of this inquiry I should be led to a conclusion something different from the result of his own observations , I am convinced that this distinguished observer , of whose candour and talents I have an equal opinion , will impute it wholly to a love for truth ; as with me the precept applies as strongly to the philosopher as to the historian , No quid falsi audeat , no quid very non audeat dicere .
But to proceed .
The instruments I made use of in these operations were , two of RAMSDEN'S barometers(a ) ; three or four thermometers detached from the barometers , whose boiling and freezing points I had examined myself ; an equatorial instrument , the circles of which were about seven inches diameter , made by RAMSDEN ; a fifty-feet steel measuring chain ; and three three-feet rods , two of deal and one of brass , in order to examine and correct the chain , these latter made by BARADELLE at Paris .
Besides these I took with me a little bell-tent , which I found of great use , as it defended me from the wind and sun ; and I may remark , that the observations of the uppermost barometer were made in the tent .
My first series of observations I proposed to be on Mont Saleve(b ) , one of the Alps , situated about two ( a ) It may not be improper to remark , that the specific gravity of the quicksilver of these barometers with 68~ of heat was 13,61 ; the diameter of the bore of the tube 0,20 inch ; and that of the reservoir 1,5 inch .
( b ) Mont Saleve extends near nine miles in length ; is not quite 3300 foet in height above the Lake .
That side of it which is next Geneva is for the most part a barren rock , the north-east end of it being almost a perpendicular precipice ; the other side of the mountain is less rude , of a more gentle acclivity , covered with trees , shrubs , and herbage , as is also the top , where is some of the finest pasture in the world .
It is inhabited only by a few shepherds , who pass the summer months here with their cattle , in little miserable huts or barns : the remaining part of the year , viz. for about four or five months , it is covered with snow .
This mountain contains chiefly a calcareous stone ; and there is reason to believe that there is an iron ore in it , at least in some parts of it , as a piece Mr. DE LUC , the brother , picked up near the south-west end , I found , sensibly affected the magnet .
leagues south of Geneva , and precisely on the same point where Mr. DE LUC had made his highest or fifteenth station : this spot I learnt from his brother , whose civilities , both then and since , I shall frequently have occasion to remember and mention .
The place where I measured my base was in a field near the villages of Archamp and Neidens , not quite three miles in a horizontal line from the top of the rock whose height was to be determined ( see the chart that accompanies this account ) .
At the end of the base A I intended to place one of my barometers ; and the other at the top of the rock , called the Pitton , at C ; and with the above instruments measure the triangle ABC .
The angles were taken both on the horary circle , which was brought parallel to the horizon , and also on the azimuth circle of the equatorial instrument ; this made it , as it were , two different instruments independant of each other .
The angles were moreover doubled , tripled , and quadrupled , on each arch ; by this means the error of the center or axis of the instrument vanished ; the possible error in the divisions , in the reading off , and in the coincidence of the wires in the telescope ( which magnified forty times ) with the signals placed at each angle of the triangle , was lessened in proportion to the number of times the observation was repeated ; and finally the mean of all was taken .
The same was done with each angle at A , B , and C , horizontal as well as vertical , viz. the elevation of C above A and B was taken ; and also the depression of A and B below C. The advantage of this method was , that the error of the line of collimation , the effect of refraction , and of the curvature of the earth 's surface , all became equal and contrary ; by these means the little errors were diminished , and great errors absolutely avoided(c ) .
I shall , however , beg leave to set down the operation at length respecting this one triangle , in order to show the precision that may be expected from such a geometrical process ; to remove the scruples of those gentlemen who suspect that accuracy is only to be obtained by large quadrants ; and lastly , to do justice and satisfaction to the celebrated artist who invented and made this valuable instrument .
( c ) I must acknowledge here , that the attraction of the mountain creeps into the account uncorrected for , but only half of this quantity influences the mean result , as at the top it was nothing , and at the bottom of the mountain it could not exceed 10~ ' in the direction AC , as I find from a rough computation , the half of which = 5~ would give only four inches for the correction .
Determination of the Base .
Ch. Ft. In .
Temper .
Length of the base AB ( see the Chart ) by the chain , first time , 55 10 0 71~ Ditto , second time , 55 9 93/ 4 76 The mean , 55 9 10.87 731/ 2 Ft. In .
~ By frequent previous observations I determined ( d ) the length of the chain by comparison with the brass standard rod 50 00 60 reduced to 60~ of heat , Correction for 131/ 2~ of heat from expansion , +00 05 Diameter of the pins or arrow , one of which was used at each chain , and in such manner , that this correction be+ 00 16 came always + Correct length of the chain as it was used in measuring the base , 50 0 21 Multiply by the number of entire chains in the base , 55 2750 11 55 Add the parts of a chain , +9 10 87 True length of the base , as it was measured , 2760 10 42 Correction for the defect of level , taken with an instru0 76 ( e ) meant made on purpose , each time the chain was placed , The true horizontal distance between A and B becomes , 2760 9 66 Deter(d ) It may be required , to what precision I could determine the length of my chain ?
I think certainly to within 3/ 100 of an inch , or 1/ 2000 of the whole length .
The common GUNTER'S chain of the shops is always subject to spring and stretch considerably ; mine was made of hardened steel , on purpose to avoid this defect .
It however still preserved some degree of elasticity , for when pulled with a force of about ten pounds , it seemed = 0 , 12 inch longer than when laid gently on the floor without being stretched at all : the assumed length of the chain was such as seemed to me probable from a moderate tension in Determination of the angles by the equatorial .
On the azimuth On the equat .
circle , the circle .
horary being converted into gradual divisions .
o ' ' ' o ' ' ' ~A by the 1st observation 58 27 30 58 28 30 2d , 29 0 27 30 3d , 28 30 29 15 4th , 30 15 29 15 ~ taken four times over on the arch , 233 54 15 233 54 30 The mean , 58 28 49 58 28 371/ 2 Lastly , the mean of all from the two circles = 58~ 28~ 431/ 4~ =~ at A. ~B by the 1st observation , 111 54 45 111 53 0 2d , 51 30 52 30 3d , 50 30 50 45 ~ taken three times over on the arch , 335 36 45 335 36 15 Mean , 111 52 15 111 52 5 .
Mean of all from the two circles = 111~ 52~ 10~ =~ at B. common using it .
It may perhaps not be out of place to remark here~ that the rods with which the chain was examined , agreed exactly with the scales of the barometers ; at least the difference in nine inches , taken in different parts of the seal , did not appear to exceed 1/ 1000 of an inch .
( e ) The precaution in taking the inclination of the chain every time ; if the base be nearly a plain , as is the case in many meadows , seems to be unnecessary ; for this same correction , deduced from the inclination of the base observed at A and B , comes out ~,99 inch , only 0,23 inch different , a quantity wholly inconsiderable .
On the azimuth On the equat .
circle .
circle .
o ' ' ' o ' ' ' ~C by the 1st observation , 9 39 09 38 30 2d , 39 0 38 15 3d , 38 45 39 45 ~ taken four times over on the arch , 38 35 45 38 34 45 Mean , 9 38 561/ 4 9 38 411/ 4 Mean of the two circles , = 9~ 38~ 483/ 4~ =~ at C. By actual observation .
Angles finally ~ .
o ' ' ' o ' ' ' ~ at A , 58 28 431/ 4 These angles corrected by 58 28 491/ 4 adding 6~ ' to each ( the ~ at B , 111 52 10 111 52 16 sum of their errors , or ~ at C , 9 38 483/ 4 defect from 180~ being 9 38 543/ 4 -18~ ) become , Sum of the three angles = 179 59 42 Sum , 180 00 Taken from 180 00 Leaves the difference = 18 sum of the errors , It is highly curious and satisfactory to see the amazing correspondency of these observations , made with an instrument of only 31/ 2 inches radius , whereon an angle of one minute is about equal 1/ 1300 inch ; and I think we may fairly conclude , that the corrected mean result of these observations is true to within 6~ or 8~(f ) ; which , as ( f ) I may have a future occasion to speak of the accuracy of this instrument for astronomical purposes ; but I cannot omit this opportunity of mentioning one , viz. in taking the latitude of the city of Amiens in Picardy , where I had thirteen observations by the stars and Sun , the mean of which differed 25~ from the extremes , and only 3~ from the result of Mr. CASSINI'S observations , made , I believe , with a nine-feet zenith sector , as related in La Meridienne de Paris ~ .
5 may be proved hereafter , would occasion an error of only three feet in the distance of the mountains , and seven inches in the height .
I proceed next to the vertical angles .
Determination of the inclination of the sides AC , BC , and AB , with the horizon ; the height of the eye at the instrument being four feet above the ground .
Altitude from below at A. Depression from above at C. ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' Inclination of AC , 10 33 2 10 29 18 Correction for the part of Correct for the signal , + 16 the signal which was 1 38 for the line of colobserved , limation , + 59 Correction for the line of for refraction , + 27 0 59 collimation , Correct for the refraction , 0 27 True depression of A from C , 10 31 0 Arch intercepted between , 2 30 True Altitude of C from A , 10 29 58 or curvature , True altitude of C from A deduced from the obser10 28 30 vation at C , Mean corrected altitude of C from A= 10~ 29~ 14~ ( g ) .
( g ) If the computation were to be made from either of the observations taken separately , the difference would amount to only three feet in the height of C ; and this may either be in the correction of the line of collimation , the effect of refraction , or in mistaking the part of the signal that was observed : for , whilst I was gone to the top of the mountain , some peasants possessed themselves of the handkerchiefs I had fixed to the signals below in order to have a conspicuous and determined point .
Altitude from below at ~ .
Depression from above at ~ .
~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' Inclination of BC , 11 20 26 11 19 47 Correct for the part of the Correct for the signal , 59 1 38 signal observed , Error of collimation , + 59 Error of collimation , 0 59 Effect of refraction , + 26 Correct for refraction , 0 26 True depression of B from C , 11 20 18 True altitude of C from B , 11 17 23 Arch intercepted , or cur2 18 vature , True altitude of C from B , deduced from the ob11 18 0 servation at C , Mean of the two , or corrected altitude of C from B = 11~ 17~ 411/ 2~ .
Altitude at A. Depression at ~ .
~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ~ of inclination of AB 0 27 4 the base , 0 27 0 Error of collimation , +0 59 Error of the line of col0 59 limation , Correct depression of A 0 28 3 from B ; Correct altitude of B from A , 0 26 1 Arch intercepted , 0 27 Altitude of B from A deduced from the obser0 27 36 vation at B , Mean of the two , or corrected altitude of B from A = 0~ 26~ 49~ ( h ) .
( h ) It should seem from these two observations , that the error of the line of collimation had been assumed too great ; it has however , as I have before observed , nothing to do with the mean result : and this is , perhaps , one of the best means of discovering the error of collimation , and the very method Mr. DE LUC used , to adjust his level , though , as I have been informed by his brother , without taking into the account the effect of curvature , which , if his horizontal marks were 2000 feet distant from each other , would amount to 20~ , and the error to half that quantity .
I have thus , in a manner rather prolix , given a detail of the methods used to ascertain the quantity of the different angles .
It may be of use on a like occasion , and will at least serve to determine within what limits the error of the final result may be expected to lye , as on the precision of the geometrical operations all the comparisons of the barometrical ones depend .
This process once mentioned will exempt me and the reader from the trouble a second time , when he is informed , that the same fidelity and pains were employed ( where the circumstances would admit ) in all the trigonometrical observations , of which the annexed chart is a summary .
I proceed now to the determination of the sides , the computations of which are too well known to enter into this paper .
Feet .
Side AB 2760.8 AC 15286.4 BC 14041.7 Feet .
These with the angles give for the height of C above A , 2835.07 The height of C above B , 2806.27 The height of B above A , 22.18 These two added give the height of C above A , deduced from the 2828.45 observation at B , But the height by actual observation at A was , 2835.07 Then the mean of the two , 2831.76 which is probably within three or four feet of the truth , or about one foot in a thousand .
Having thus the perpendicular height , as I think , very accurately ascertained , it remained for me to take the altitude of the barometer at each station A and C , and if possible with equal precision .
These observations it would be too tedious to set down at length .
I shall , however , premise the following particulars .
Every observation of the barometer was triple ; that is , the height was read off three different times , and the mean taken ; but from once reading only I could be sure of the height to 2/ 1000 of an inch , exclusive of the error of the divisions , which in some places might amount to that quantity ; this the nonius would itself discover and even correct by estimation .
At every series of observations the float at the bottom was readjusted , so that I could constantly be sure of an alteration of the weight of the atmosphere expressed by 0.002 inch of quicksilver , if not of half that quantity .
Finally , the difference of the two barometers(i ) was constantly taken , after being left three-quarters ( i ) It may be concluded , that this difference should be constant , and always the same ; but , from what cause I know not , it did not appear so to me .
In my journal for the weather for 1775 , I find the following note : from a mean of seventeen observations between August 12th and Sept. 1 .
viz. before , at , and after , my expedition to Mont Saleve and the Mole , I find the difference between my two barometers =,0042 inch , No 1 .
standing the highest ; in these comparisons , however , the extremes sometimes differed from the mean =,006 .
And in my passage over Mont Cenis , Dec. 1 .
barometer No 1 .
stood lower than No 2 .
ters of an hour or more in the same place , to acquire the true temperature of the air , and this before and after every expedition .
The fractional parts of a degree on both the attached and detached thermometers were noted only by estimation , but written down to 10ths , being more convenient in the computation ; for I may remark , that one-third of a degree on the attached thermometer is equal to about 1/ 1000 inch on the barometer ; this attention , therefore , to the sub-divisions of the degrees became necessary .
I conclude , lastly , with presuming , that the weight(k ) of any column of air may be measured with these barometers to,008 inch , though all the errors should lye the same way .
Leaving Geneva about half past six in the morning , August 20th , I arrived at the place A of my base a little before eight ; near to which there happened to be a shepherd 's house , in which I left one of my barometers ( No 1 .
) with a servant , to examine and observe it every five or ten minutes for near nine hours successively , by -,013 inch : it is difficult to account for this .
May 10th , 1776 , at Rome , No 1 .
stood lowest by -,001 .
June 12th , at Naples , No 1 .
stood lowest by -,008 .
Sept. 10th , in London , No 1 .
stood highest by +,006 .
These apparent variations may possibly arise from some alteration in the frame-work of the barometers through moisture , &amp;c. ( k ) I must not be understood to mean , that the length of any column of air may be measured to an equal accuracy , even though our theory should be perfect : this will be the subject of inquiry in its proper place .
until until I returned ; the windows and doors of the room , in which the instrument was placed , being left open , by which means there was a free communication with the outward air , and the barometer not exposed to the Sun .
The detached thermometer was hung on the window towards the north-east , where there was neither direct nor reflected heat from the Sun(l ) .
The two barometers ( l ) I have thought proper to mention this , as it is almost the only circumstance wherein my method of observing differed from Mr. DE LUC'S , whose thermometers ( if I mistake not ) were hung always in the Sun , and probably for this reason , because the column of the atmosphere between the two barometers , whose mean heat is to be determined , is ( if the Snn shine ) all exposed to the Sun .
I have , however , always preferred hanging them in the shade , and I give the following reasons : all spurious and local heat from reflection is more easily avoided ; no concentrated and false heat is acquired by the mounting , and thence communicated to the tube , even though the ball should be insulated ; and , finally , because I suspect the real temperature of the atmosphere in the Sun and in the shade to be the same , or at least insensibly different .
This may be thought to be advancing too much ; but , to be satisfied of the position , I made no less than four-score observations with four different thermometers of very different mounting , hung alternately exposed to the Sun 's rays , and screened from them by the shade of a tree , in an open plain at some distance from the town of Geneva .
The result was , that my best thermometer , with the ball insulated , differed only 2~ in the different situations ; the others , more or less , as they were more or less connected with the frames in which they hung .
One of them , enclosed in a glass tube , rose 12~ higher than the true temperature , which was 77~ .
It should seem then , that the variety in the mounting occasioned this difference ; and this effect of the materials , of which the instrument is made , cannot be wholly avoided , as the glass itself , which constitutes the ball of the thermometer , will acquire and contain more or less , in proportion to its thickness and opacity .
If a thermometer were perfect , it would reflect all the rays that it receives .
More might be added to corroborate this idea , but it would swell this note to an unwarrantable length .
were here compared ; and at a quarter after nine , beginning my walk , I arrived , not without some fatigue , at the top of the mountain about noon .
The view from thence was incredibly beautiful .
Every object , that from Geneva was striking , from thence appeared with an additional effect .
The mountains seemed higher and nearer ; the plain appeared a more perfect level , the small inequalities from this height becoming insensible ; and a larger portion of the lake presented itself : behind me an innumerable collection of naked points and precipices , all new objects , that from below are hid by the mountain , afforded fresh and most astonishing ideas of this very singular part of the creation .
The clouds however ( for it was a little hazy ) unfortunately prevented my seeing Mont Blanc and the Glacieres , which were still farther behind .
Some of the clouds were below me , and very near ; exhibiting to me , at that time , a very singular phenomenon of the thunder grumbling under my feet .
I was occupied here between four and five hours with different observations .
The barometrical ones I am now going to relate ; and I shall at the same time give the computations of them according to Mr. DE LUC'S method , or rather according to Dr. HORSLEY'S reduction of it to the scales and measures of this country ( vide Philos. Trans. vol. LXIV .
) with this difference , that I have reckoned the equation for the expansion of quicksilver =,00323 inch for every degree of FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer in a column of 30 inches , instead of,00312 which Mr. DE LUC used ; the former I had collected from some of my own experiments made at Oxford in the beginning of the year 1773 : this difference will not , however , occasion an alteration in the result of any one of my observations of more than five inches , and may therefore be considered as of no account .
Of the real value of this correction I shall speak more hereafter .
The barometer was set up on the mountain at one o'clock , and left an hour and a quarter to acquire the temperature of the tent in which it was placed , before the first regular series of observation was taken .
The succeeding observations were made at intervals of near an hour each .
I have ventured to set down the height of the barometer to,0001 inch ; but this is only the mean from three or four readings off .
It seems that the heat of the tent was considerably greater than that of the external air ; this , however , can only influence the expansion of the quicksilver , shown by the attached thermometer , and not the pressure of the atmosphere .
Lastly , the true difference in the height of the reservoirs of the two barometers , by comparison with A and C , was found equal 2831.3 feet geometrically .
These observations then seem to prove that the barometrical rules were a little defective as to the true ratio between the gravities of air and quicksilver , viz. in the value of an inch of quicksilver in the torricellian tube , expressed in inches of the atmosphere with a given temperature .
The first comparison gives for this error in defect 19.8 feet in every 1000 feet ; the second , 24.0 feet ; and the last , 25.4 feet : the mean of the three is 23.1 feet ; and by so much we may conclude that these rules , in greater heights also , will give the difference of elevation too little , viz. by 1/ 43 nearly(m ) .
But it will be fair to make the experiment .
( m ) Lest any suspicion should arise of a disagreement between the actual measures taken by Mr. DE LUC and myself , I may observe , that the mean result of three observations , which I made independently of each other on the height of the Pitton or point C above the lake of Geneva , agree with the mean result of Mr. DE LUC'S operation from the levelling and the quadrant , to less than twelve inches ; a greater correspondency than which cannot be expected : and this was the true reason why I chose the same spot he had pitched upon .
` ` Le rocher isole , qui domine tout la montagne .
' ' As a further confirmation , I compared his standard steel rod of twelve Paris inches , which his brother obligingly furnished me with , with my brass one , and found twelve inches on Mr. DE LUC'S rule was on my rule , with 71~ of heat , 12.784 Eng. inches .
Correction for the difference of expansion between + 07 brass and steel with 16~ of heat , Length of Mr. DE LUC'S French foot with 55~ , 12.7847 True length of the French foot ( vide Phil. Trans. ) 12.7890 Error or difference from the true Paris foot -,0043 = 1/ 3000 nearly .
The Mole is a convenient , insulated mountain , situated about eighteen miles east of Geneva , and rising near five thousand feet above the lake , much higher than any body , that I know of , has ever made these experiments at , with the required precision .
On this summit I determined to confirm or correct my discovery , and communicated my intentions to Mr. DE SAUSSURE , a very ingenious gentleman of this place , and well skilled in various parts of natural and experimental philosophy , who gave me all the information necessary , and obligingly promised to accompany me , as did also Mr. TREMBLEY , assistant to Mr. MALLET , well known in the astronomical world .
This expedition was undertaken in the latter end of August and beginning of September .
I shall here beg leave to set the reader down at the bottom of the mountain , and flatter myself he will accompany me to the top .
It was about five in the afternoon when we left St. Joire , a wretched little village at the foot of the mountain to the east , and where we had dined in a most miserable auberge , preparing to ascend the summit on foot , being seven or eight in company , including guides and servants , who carried my instruments , provisions , &amp;c. ; the former consisting of the equatorial , the barometer , different thermometers , electrical balls , an hygrometer , and a dipping-needle ; together with another barometer of Mr. DE LUC'S construction , a variation-needle , a level belonging to Mr. DE SAUSSURE , and a tent .
Thus accoutered we proceeded up an ascent , not however very steep , for three hours and a half without intermission , the path leading in a spiral kind of direction , very rugged and full of loose pieces of rock that are brought down with the melting snows , passing through romantic woods of fine firs and other trees , interspersed here and there with a thin soil of excellent pasture .
Before we arrived at the hut , where we were to sleep ( for our intention was to lay upon the mountain that night , in order to have the more time the next morning for our operations ) having walked on a little too far before , we lost sight of our guides .
We called several times , but were never answered:the night was now coming on ; a kind of fog appeared , with small rain ; our situation became somewhat embarrassing .
We called again , but were answered by nothing but an echo , the place being a most profound solitude .
We began now to consider ourselves as lost .
Mr. DE SAUSSURE , though he had been seven or eight times before upon the mountain , found himself in doubt concerning the way ; but after a short dilemma thought it best to proceed .
We did ; and now began to perceive at a distance some little huts or hovels indistinctly : a few more steps assured us we were right , and about nine o'clock we had the good luck to find ourselves at the very hovel , where we were to rest that night .
I own I now found myself quite contented , though I did not at all know what kind of place I was going to enter .
It proved to be a little hut made of boards , consisting of one apartment only , eighteen or twenty feet square , and about twelve high in the center , without any windows or chimney for the smoke , except what was made by the holes in the roof , and the interstices between the boards at the sides , which were rudely put together , scarce closer than park-palings , affording an equal entrance to the wind , rain , and snow ; for as these hovels are inhabited only for about four months in the summer , they are constructed without the least mortar or cement in the world ; an humiliating witness this , how simple the architecture which nature and necessity suggest .
On entering we found a comfortable fire , and the little cabane inhabited by a couple of Alpine shepherdesses and their two cows , on whose whey and some very coarse bread they wholly subsisted , not discontented but even proud of their lot ; and who , out of a singular species of contempt , call the inhabitants of the plain mange-rotis , that is , eaters of roast-meat .
Their language too was different ; not French nor Italian , but partaking something of both ; or , as I have been since informed , a corruption of the ancient Celtic .
A few minutes after our arrival our guides rejoined us : it was now night , and in this rather too artless habitation we were obliged to lay in a little loft over the cows , our beds some leaves and clean hay , and my bolster my portmanteau(n ) .
I had had the caution to bring some sheets with me , and , being a little tired with my walking , slept five hours pretty soundly , though much starved , having no other curtains than what this wooden canopy afforded , through which the stars shone most brilliantly .
Between four and five we arose ; found the heavens beautifully serene , and , having eaten some of our provisions , left this habitation , which might be situated about two-thirds of the way up the mountain ; and beginning our march about half after five reached the summit a quarter before seven ; but not without a good deal of climbing , and sometimes up an ascent of near 40~ for several hundred feet .
One of my servants , before he got half way , found his head turn round , and himself so giddy , at the height and precipices ( a frequent effect in these sort of places ) that he was obliged to return to the hut .
In the ascent I saw the Sun rising behind one of the neigh(n ) Frigida parvas Praeberet spelunca domos , ignemque , laremque , Et pecus , et dominos communi clauderet umbra ; Sylvestrem montana torum cum sterneret uxor Frondibus et culmo .
JUV .
Sat , vi .
bouring alps with a most beautiful effect , and the shadow of the mountain we were then upon extended fifteen or twenty miles west .
We had now reached the summit ; and there my curiosity finished in astonishment .
I perceived myself elevated 6000 feet in the atmosphere , and standing as it were on a knife-edge , for such is the figure of the ridge or top of this mountain ; length without breadth , or the least appearance of a plain , as I had expected to find .
Before me an immediate precipice , a pic , of above 1000 feet , and behind me the very steep ascent I had just now mounted .
I was imprudently the first of the company : the surprise was perfect horror , and two steps further had sent me headlong from the rock .
On this spot , with some difficulty , we fixed the instruments , and commenced our operations , after some time spent in admiration at the prospect , and familiarizing myself to the scene .
Before me , at some distance , was spread the plain in which lay Geneva and the lake ; behind it rose the Dole , and the long chain of Mont Jura as far as the fort La Cluse , which we entirely commanded , as well as some of the country beyond it .
A little to the left , and much nearer , lay Mont Saleve , which from this height appeared an inconsiderable hill : to the right and left nothing but immense mountains , and pointed rocks of every possible shape , and forming tremendous precipices .
In the vale beneath , several little hamlets , and the most beautiful pasturages , with the river Arve winding and softening the scene ; from whence arose a thick evaporation , collecting itself into clouds , which on the lake , that was quite covered with them , had the appearance of a sea of cotton , the Sun-beams playing in the upper surface of them with those tints that are seen in a fine evening .
To the fourth-west appeared the lake of Annecy ; behind us , taking up one-fifth of our horizon , lay the Glacieres , and amongst them , towering above all the rest , stood Mont Blanc .
The circumference of the horizon might be about 200 English miles ; and , though not one of the most extensive , yet certainly one of the most varied in the world .
From this spot the clouds had a striking appearance to an inhabitant of the plain ; very few of them at above one-fifth of the height that we were now at ; not governed by the wind , but moving in every possible direction ; some of them seemed creeping along the ground , whilst others were rising perpendicularly between the hills .
And I may here remark , that from Geneva I have observed the clouds were generally three days in the week below the summit of Mont Saleve ; so that the ordinary region of these vapours seems to be at that height in the atmosphere , where the barometer would stand at about 26 inches in this climate .
While at the top of the Mole , I was very sensible of the cold , there being a brisk wind , which , though south , came over the mountains of ice , and was very keen ; insomuch that , about two hours after I had been there , I nearly lost the use of my fingers , and found my lips much affected and parched from the transition , having been a good deal heated in ascending with two waistcoats and a great coat on .
The thermometer , however , when I first mounted , stood no lower than 48~ .
I must here ask pardon for this long digression , which I have ventured to transcribe from my journal written upon the spot .
To return then to the observations .
After what has been said respecting those on Mont Saleve , it will suffice here to mention , that by repeated measurements I determined the horizontal length of the base 1 , 2 ( see the chart ) to be = 1250 ft. 3.9 inch ; the ~ at 1= 95~ 37~ 28~ ; ~ at 2= 77~ 48~ 53~ ; and the ~ at 3= 6~ 33~ 49~ .
The mean corrected angle of elevation of 3 from 1 = 21~ 29~ 34~ ; ditto of 3 from 2= 21~ 3~ 41~ ; and lastly , the elevation of 2 from 1= 0~ 47~ 24~ .
Feet .
These observations give for the length of the side 1 , 3 , 10691.9 2 , 3 , 10886.7 Height of 3 above 1 , 4212.8 3 above 2 , 4194.8 2 above 1 , 17.2 And consequently , 3 above 1 deduced from the observation at 2 , 4212.0 And lastly , the mean height of 3 above 1 from the determination at each end of the base , 4212.4 The difference in height , however , between the two barometers was only 4211.3 feet .
Here follow the barometrical observations(o ) , and their reduction .
( o ) Made between the hours of eight and twelve , in the open air and not in the tent , which could not be pitched on account of the smallness of the plain at the summit ; a brisk south wind , but fair .
The barometer was screened by an umbrella .
To collect these last experiments in one point of view .
Feet .
The 1st series gives for the error on every 1000 ft. 18.7 2d , 16.9 3d , 22.8 4th , 23.5 5th , 23.1 6th , 25.2 The mean error , 21.7 which agrees within two feet in a thousand with the determination on Mont Saleve .
This result then justifies my conclusion ( in p. 556 .
) and proves that either the proportional gravity of air and quicksilver is now different from what it was , when M. DE LUC made his experiments , viz. from 1756 to 1760 ; or that his or my observations are defective .
That my trigonometrical measurements were sufficiently exact , viz. to within two or three feet , I think I have already shown ; and even that his were also .
Within what limits my barometrical errors are to be found is not difficult to determine from what has been before premised .
That the scale of Mr. DE LUC'S barometer was less accurate than mine , is , I think , without a doubt ; and indeed he never attempted a division less than 1/ 16th of a French line , or about ~ of an inch English : and yet when I consider the number of his observations , and the unexampled diligence and care with which he made them , I am obliged to attribute the difference of our results to some other cause than that of inaccuracy .
If then future experience should demonstrate , that the density of the atmosphere with a given heat is invariable , or nearly so ; while the pressure of a whole column of it continues the same , we may perhaps search for the cause of our disagreement from hence , viz. the barometers of Mr. DE LUC were not sufficiently near each other in an horizontal direction : mine were separated from two to three miles ; and his , I believe , at double or triple that distance .
It may be suspected , I am well aware , that the syphon construction of Mr. DE LUC'S barometer might occasion this difference : let us see whether this be the case .
Mr. DE SAUSSURE ( whose instrument was of Mr. DE LUC'S construction , and made , as I understood , under his inspection ) observed at the top of the Mole , or at least nearly on the same level with my barometer , as follows : +,001 , equal to about 10 inches in deducing the height of the mountain , a quantity wholly to be neglected .
Finally , the mean of Mr. DE SAUSSURE'S observations gives the defect of Mr. DE LUC'S rules 21.9 in a thousand .
The construction of the barometer had therefore no influence on this difference .
But further , while Mr. DE SAUSSURE observed the height of the barometer on the Mole , Mr. DE LUC , the brother made a corresponding observation with a similar instrument at Geneva .
I shall relate this observation , computed after Mr. DE LUC'S manner .
Comparison of the first series .
Observation at the top of Observation at the bottom .
the mountain .
Barom. No 2 .
Therm. Therm. Barom. No 1 .
Therm. Therm. at the top .
attached .
detached .
below .
attached .
detached .
In .
In .
oooo 25.6533 58.0 56.2 28.4040 58.1 58.8 Feet .
This gives for the height barometrically , 2755.6 But the true height was , 2828.9 Difference , or error of the barometers , -73.3=259/ 10000 .
Comparison of the second series .
Observation at the top of Observation at the bottom .
the mountain .
Barom. No 2 .
Therm. Therm. Barom. No 1 .
Therm. Therm. at the top .
attached .
detached .
below .
attached .
detached .
In .
In .
oooo 25.6550 56.2 57.0 28.4040 58.5 60.8 Feet .
This gives for the height barometrically , 2754.9 But the true height was , 2828.9 Difference , or error of the barometers , -74.0=262/ 10000 .
series gives for the error on 10000 feet , 26.8 .
I think I have now shown , that the error actually exists ; it remains that we determine precisely the quantity of it .
For this purpose it will be proper to collect all the preceding observations in one point of view .
Table of the result of all the barometrical experiments .
True height Height by Mean Error in Error in Mean error in ~the baromeheat .
feet .
1000 feet .
1000 feet .
Place of observation .
cally .
ters .
o 1 2831.3 2775.2 69.4 56.1 -19.8 Mont Saleve , 2 2763.2 68.5 68.1 -24.0 -23.1 3 2759.4 67.2 71.9 -25.4 1 4211.3 4132.7 58.3 78.6 -18.6 2 4140.1 58.9 71.2 -16.9 3 4115.1 59.5 96.2 -22.8 At the Mole , -21.7 4 4111.9 60.0 99.4 -23.5 5 4113.7 60.5 97.6 -23.1 6 4104.9 60.3 106.1 -25.2 1 2828.9 2755.6 57.5 73.3 -25.9 2 2754.9 58.9 74.0 -26.2 Mont Saleve , -26.8 3 2748.9 59.6 80.0 -28.2 4 2752.8 59.8 76.1 -26.9 Mean of all , 23.6 , and the temperature 61~.4 .
The Mole , from two observations of Mr. DE 4211.3 92 .
-21.8 SAUSSURE , The same by Mr. DE SAUSSURE , and Mr. DE 4883 .
4814 .
69 .
-14 .
-16.2 LUC , at Geneva , According to Mr. the Mole , 4882.8 4860 .
22.8 47 DE LUC 's own the Dole , 4292.7 4210 .
82.7 -19.5 observations , see the Buet , 8893.6 8770 .
-123.7 -13 9 Recherches sir l'Atmosphere , Mt Blanc , 14432.5 14093 .
-339.5 -23.5 The titles of the columns are sufficiently clear to make a farther explanation of this table unnecessary ; and it appears , I think incontestably , upon taking a mean of my thirteen observations ( and I shall here consider only my own ) on Mont Saleve and the Mole , that this error is about 231/ 2 feet on every thousand ; that is , the rules of Mr. DE LUC give the height by so much too little .
At the bottom of the foregoing table I have subjoined six other comparisons , some of them from Mr. DE LUC'S own observations , as recorded in his valuable work ; which however I must add , are certainly of less authority in this inquiry , as they were made with barometers a great way distant from each other , viz. near thirty miles : besides which , the geometrical heights are , for the same reason , not so accurately ascertained .
I have , however , ventured to make what use I could of them , viz. to show that these two give a result on the same side , though not exactly the same ; and to urge the necessity of a certain vicinity in those observations from whence a theory is to be deduced .
Shall I be permitted to adduce another proof , in confirmation of what has been advanced ?
When I first took up the consideration of measuring altitudes in the atmo~ with the barometer , and had heard only of Mr. DE LUC'S labours , it occurred to me , that there was a much more simple method of arriving at this theory , than either he or I have since pursued .
It was this ; to determine hydrostatically the specific gravities of air(r ) and quicksilver , with a given temperature and pressure ; the increase of volume , or change of gravity , with a given increase of heat being supposed to be known by the experiments of BOERHAAVE ( ~ ) and HAWKESBEE ( t ) , which might be farther examined by similar ones ; and presuming that the geometrical ratio in the air 's density , as you advance upwards from the earth 's surface , had been sufficiently demonstrated(u ) .
For the proportional gravity of quicksilver to air will express inversely the length of two equiponderant columns of these fluids , that is , when the columns are taken infinitely small(x ) .
With these ( r ) It may seem particular that I should propose an experiment supposed to be very well known , and which hardly any elementary treatise on chemistry or experimental philosophy will not furnish us with an example of ; the weight of a given quantity of air .
BOYLE , HALLEY , HAWKESBEE , HALES , each of them have tried it , and many others since their time : but the misfortune is , all these experiments have been but gross approximations , without due attent on to the heat ; and yet the determination of HAWKESBEE seems to have been followed by one-half of Europe in Pneumatical researches .
Indeed I only know of one experiment that has the least title to precision , and that is Mr. CAVENDISH'S , briefly related in the LV~th volume of the Philosophical Transactions .
( s ) Elementa Chemiae .
( t ) Physico-mechanical Experiments .
( u ) COTES'S Hydrostat .
Lectures , et alibi .
( x ) I am not sorry to anticipate the reader 's remark here , that this observation is not new ; since I find that I have been treading the same steps with these ideas I made the following experiment .
I caused ~ glass vessel to be blown something like a Florence flask , or rather larger ; to the neck of this was adapted a brass cap with a valve opening outwards , and made to screw on or off , together with a male screw , by which it was fixed to an excellent pump of Mr. NAIRNE'S construction , and exhausted of its air , or at least rarefied to a known degree : the vessel was then carefully weighed with a sensible balance , and again after the air was re-admitted~ the difference gave the weight of the air that had been exhausted .
After having repeated this two or three times , the vessel was exactly filled with water as far as the valve , which had been the term of capacity for the air ; this was done by screwing on the cap till the superfluous water oozed all out , and upon inverting the vessel there appeared not the least sign or bubble of air ; I therefore concluded , that the volume of water was precisely the same as had been the volume of air , a circumstance that should be accurately attended to .
It was then carefully weighed , and compared with its weight when full and deprived of its air .
It will readily be seen , that I had then the specific gravity of the two fluids , upon supposition that the figure of the glass had not altered Mr. BOYLE and Dr. HALLEY , who both made use of this method ; the one with a view to determine the limits of the atmosphere ; and the other the height of Snowden .
by pressure during the experiment ; and this effect may be presumed to have been the most sensible , when the vessel was filled with water , the pressure at that time being from within .
To assure myself of this , I let in a small quantity of air , which formed a bubble of about one-third of an inch in diameter , and upon immerging the glass in another vessel of water , whereby the pressure within was counterpoised by a pressure without , the bubble seemed to contract itself by a quantity , as I found afterwards , equal to about two grains in weight , or 1/ 8000 of the whole contents .
I therefore concluded , that this correction was hardly worth taking notice of , and still less the effect from external pressure when the glass was exhausted .
At every operation the height of the barometer and thermometer ( placed close to the vessel when the air was weighed ) was noted down , together with the height of the pump-gage , which , compared with the barometer in the room , showed the quantity exhausted .
The result of the experiment was as follows , the barometer in the room standing at 29.27 inches , and the heat of the room 53~ .
Feet .
The bottle empty or exhausted till the gage stood at 29.15 inches weighed ( determined from four different trials , and the balance 2657.40 turning with ~1/ 5 of a grain ) Increase of weight when filled with air , from four trials certain +~ to 1/ 10 of a grain Bottle filled with water , whose heat was 51~ , 1,6220.00 Weight of the water , exclusive of the bottle , 13562.60 But the bottle was exhausted only in the proportion of 29.15 inches to 29,27 inches ; therefore if a perfect vacuum could have been made , the difference of weight would have been 16.22 grains instead of 16.13 grains .
Again , the water was colder than the air by 2~ ; the one being 53~ , and the other only 51~ : now water , from former experiments , I find to expand about 3/ 10000 with 2~ of heat ; therefore , if the water had been of the same temperature with the air that was examined , the weight of an equal volume would have been only 13558,5 grains ; and lastly , 13358.5 divided by 16.22 gives 836(y ) , and by so much is water heavier than air in these circumstances .
( y ) HAWKESBEE'S experiments made the air 850 lighter than water , the barometer being at 29.7 ; and Dr. HALLEY supposed it about 800 .
Mr. CAVENDISH , in weighing 50 grains of air , when the barometer was at 293/ 4 , and the thermometer at 50~ , concluded the specific gravity of air to be about 800 also .
Now my experiment , reduced to the same circumstances with his , would give 817 for this gravity , no great difference in an affair of such delicacy .
By former experiments I find the specific gravity of the quicksilver of my barometers , compared with rain-water in 68~ 13.606 to 1 of heat , as , And 68~-53~=15~ , correct therefore for 15~ of expansion of + 018 quicksilver , Correct for 15~ of expansion of air , -.031 True specific gravity of quicksilver , with 53~ of heat , 13.594 Which multiplied by the specific gravity of air , x 836 Gives for the comparative gravity of quicksilver and air , when 11364.6 the barometer is at 29.27 , and the thermometer 53~ , Feet .
And lastly , 1/ 10th of an inch of quicksilver , when the barometer stands at 29.27 inches ( viz. from 29.22 inches to 29.32 inches ) with the tem94.7 perature 53~ , is equal to a column of the atmosphere of , This quantity , according to my barometrical observations , is , 93.83 to Mr. DE LUC'S rules , 91.66 We see here then that the statical experiment agrees with the result of my barometrical ones to within about 11 inches in 100 feet , and I am not sure that it is not still capable of much farther precision ; and though perhaps alone it might carry with it , to some persons , a less conclusive testimony , who reluctantly reason from the little to the great , yet , in conjunction with what has been before shown , I think it has considerable weight ; and I am the less inclined to reject such an indirect method of proof , as I have the great authorities of HALLEY and NEWTON on my side(z ) .
I have ( z ) ` ` Ce qu'il ya d'essentiel a observer ici , ' ' says Mr. DE LUC , ` ` et vraiment digne de remarque , c'est que par la seule connoissance des pesanteurs specifiques de l'air et du mercure , HALLEY est parvenu a un regle tres I have thus endeavoured to show then that the error of the theory is 236/ 10000 when the temperature of the air is 61~.4 ( see the table of the result of the observations ) .
It remains therefore , finally , that we deduce a rule , the error of which shall be nothing , viz. to find the temperature wherein the difference of the logarithms of the heights of the barometer , taken to four places of figures , will give the true difference of elevation in English fathoms .
Previous to this investigation , with which I intend to conclude this paper , it will be necessary to remark , that by repeated experiments with the barometer , I find a small difference in the equation for the expansion of air by a change of temperature , and even in that of quicksilver from the same cause , from what Mr. DE LUC'S observations have given it(a ) .
I shall approchante de celle , qu'un grand nombre d'observations du barometre dans les Cordelieres ont dicte depuis a M. BOUGUER : cependant malgre l'appui que ces experiences se pretent reciproquement , on verra qu'elles ~ encore bien eloignees de fournir un regle generale .
' ' Recherches sir l'Atmosphere , sect. 267 .
( a ) He indeed made his experiments on the atmosphere itself with the barometer , in order to determine the variations of its density ; but since it appears that the absolute density of this fluid is different from what he supposed it , it is no bold conjecture to presume that the degree of its variation should be different also ; and to ascertain this point , I have preferred the instrument above-mentioned to the method used by Mr. DE LUC , how direct soever his may seem ; for in determining minute quantities or equations , we must not embarrass ourselves with the compound effect of too many causes at a time .
not here trouble the reader with the experiments at large , too simple in themselves to deserve such a detail , unless a future occasion should render that necessary , as the methods here used may be met with amongst HAWKESBEE'S or Mr. BOYLE'S experiments ; and content myself with relating only the result of the different trials .
1000 parts of air of the temperature of freezing and pressure of 301/ 2 inches , increased in volume by an addidition of 1 degree of heat on FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer as follows : Number of deExpansion for 1~ grees the air was in 1000ths of Observations .
heated .
the whole .
o 1 14.6 2.30 2 32.2 2.43 3 40.3 2.48 With the first 4 46.6 2.45 Mean from the first manometer , 5 49.7 2.48 manometer 2.44 .
6 51.1 2.51 7 23.7 2.36 8 13.1 2.24 9 22.0 2.38 10 28.0 2.50 With another Mean from the second manometer , 11 21.5 2.34 manometer 2.42 12 30.1 2.44 13 22.6 2.44 The mean of these two sorts of observations , made with different instruments , is 2.43 , viz. 1000 parts of the air at freezing become by expansion from 1~ of heat Pts. Pts. equal 1002.43 or 1002.385 with the standard temperature 39~.7 .
Mr. DE LUC'S experiments reduced give Pts. this quantity equal 1002.23(b ) ( see Trans. ) .
It may be imagined , that I should have had a more accurate conclusion by making these observations in greater differences of temperature than what is shown in the second column of the above table ; but it did not appear so to me .
On the other hand , I found that it was absolutely necessary that the same heat should be kept up for some hours together , in order that I might be sure that the air within the instrument , the glass tube that contained it , and the air without it , all had acquired the same ( b ) It has generally been supposed , that air expands 1/ 400 with each degree of the thermometer , commencing from the mean temperature 55~ ; and , in consequence of this , astronomers have computed tables for correcting their mean refractions ; but , upon reducing the result of my observations to the temperature 55~ , we shall have the correction of the refraction for 1~ = 243/ 105589 or 1/ 435 .
Now according to Mr. DE LUC this equation is 223/ 103345 = 1/ 463 , which would produce a difference of about 4~ in the corrected refraction , upon an altitude of 5~ , with the temperature 35~ .
If my numbers may be supposed to deserve equal confidence , the error of the tables in common use , in the above circumstances , would amount to only half that quantity , and therefore probably will be thought scarce worth correcting .
I have mentioned this in order to obviate the conclusions that have been drawn by some persons from Mr. DE LUC'S theory .
uniform temperature , which in my room I found not very easy to effect in heats greater than 70~ or 80~ .
I have therefore preferred repeating the experiment with small differences of heat ; but such , however , as will include almost all the temperatures in which barometrical observations are likely to be made , viz. from 32~ to 83~ .
It has been suspected , in consequence of some experiments made by a very ingenious member of this Society , that air does not expand uniformly with quicksilver ; or that the degrees of heat shown by a quicksilver-thermometer would be expressed on a manometer , or airthermometer , by unequal spaces in a certain geometrical ratio .
I do not deny this proposition ; but I have also very little reason to assent to it , if I may trust my own experiments , which certainly evince that this ratio , if not truly arithmetical , is so nearly so as to occasion no sensible error in the measuring of heights with the barometer ; and that is all I contend for .
The small differences that are seen in the above table of this expansion , deduced from a mean of 14~ or of 40~ , I would attribute rather to the errors of observation that to any actual irregularity in nature .
If , however , this progression be insisted upon , it should seem , that the degree of the air 's expansion increases with an increase of heat ; and that the difference of volume or density from 1~ of heat , heat , any where within the limits above-mentioned , would be about one part in five thousand from what I take it at a mean .
I should not have insisted so long on this circumstance , but in respect to the known accuracy of the author of this hypothesis .
Neither do I find any reason to believe , that the expansion of air varies with its density .
I have tried air whose density or pressure was equal to 233/ 4 inches , and also to forty inches ; but the dilatation , with equal volumes and equal degrees of heat , was very nearly the same in both cases .
I might add a great deal more on these manometrical experiments , but I am afraid it would be more tedious than useful .
I proceed therefore to the expansion of quicksilver .
This experiment was made with a tube , something like a thermometer , but considerably larger than the ordinary size , and open at one end ; it was filled with quicksilver to a certain height , and then exposed to the temperatures of freezing and boiling repeatedly , the barometer being at 30 inches : the difference of the volume in each instance was determined afterwards by accurately weighing the contents .
I thus found , that if the quicksilver at freezing be supposed to be divided into 13119 parts , the increase of volume by a heat of boiling water became equal to 208 of these parts = 10/ 637 , and 10/ 637 x 1/ 180 = 1/ 11466 ; and such would be the expansion for each degree of the thermometer , commencing from the freezing point , = 0,00262 inch on a column of 30 inches of the barometer , if the glass had suffered no expansion during the experiment .
This , however , has been found to be with 180~ of heat = 1/ 400 in solidity ( viz. the cube of its longitudinal expansion ) and 1/ 400 x 1/ 180 = 1/ 72000 = 0,00042 inch , for the effect of the expansion of the glass for 1~ upon a column of 30 inches ; this added to the quantity before found , which was only the excess of the greater expansion above the less , gives for the true equation for each degree 0,00304 inch when the barometer stands at 30 inches(c ) .
Mr. DE LUC'S correction in this case was 0,00312 ; a difference so small that I shall take no notice of it as to its influence upon our observations .
It may deserve a remark here , that this equation rigorously taken is variable according to the height of the thermometer ; for 1~ , which at ( c ) It has been suspected , and I believe will appear from very good observations , which however I never made myself , that the expansion of quicksilver in the barometer is not directly as the heat shown by the thermometer , but in a ratio something different , owing to some of the quicksilver being converted into an elastic vapour in the vacuum that takes place at the top of the Torricellian tube , which presses upon the column of quicksilver , and thus counteracts in a small degree the expansion from heat .
It does not , however , appear to be a considerable quantity , not amounting to above one-sixteenth of the whole expansion in a range of 40~ of temperature ; I shall therefore venture to consider this equation as truly uniform , since the error on ten thousand feet would ~ amount to five .
freezing is = 1/ 9891 of the whole volume , at the temperature 82~ becomes 1/ 9941 , a difference indeed that may fairly be neglected , and which I neglect myself ; yet I cannot help observing , in justice to Mr. DE LUC , that his method of reducing his barometers always to the same standard temperature , was free from the error I am speaking of .
To conclude , the defect of Mr. DE LUC'S rules being supposed 236/ 10000 , or , which comes to the same thing , the correction being + 2417/ 100000 , when the temperature of the air is 61~.4 , and the true expansion of the air for each degree being 239/ 100000 when the heat is 39~.7 ; required to find the temperature wherein the difference of the logarithms shall give the true height in English fathoms , that temperature , according to Mr. DE LUC , being 39~.74 , and the expansion 223/ 100000 .
Let T be the temperature 61~.4 ; s Mr. DE LUC'S standard temperature ; E the expansion for 1~ ; e the same , according to Mr. DE LUC ; ~ the supposed correction of the rules , and x the temperature sought .
We have then the following formula , T-S x E-e(d ) ~= S-x , wherein proceeding with the above numbers S-x comes out ( d ) This sign is negative , because the assumed expansion e is less than the true one E , and consequently tended to increase the apparent error of the rules ; had it been greater , ~ would have been + .
8~.50 , and consequently x= 31~.24 the temperature required ; which , if it should be thought convenient , may be considered as the freezing point .
In the whole of the above inquiry I have taken no notice of the effect of gravity upon the particles of the air at different distances from the earth 's center , which should doubtless enter into the account , and which would occasion the density of the atmosphere to decrease in a ratio something greater than the present theory admits of .
In a height of four English miles Dr. HORSLEY finds ( Phil. Trans. vol. LXIV .
) that the diminution of density or volume from the accelerative force of gravity would be only 1/ 500 part of the whole , or about 48 feet ; and I may add to this , that this effect will be in the duplicate ratio of the heights , so that at one mile high it becomes only three feet .
A like effect takes place also below the surface of the earth , as in measuring the depths of mines , &amp;c. with this difference , that here it is but half the quantity ; in the former instance gravity within the earth being simply as the distance from the center ; they are both of them , however , circumstances that deserve no attention in practice .
This would be the place for me to enumerate the many desiderata , besides those already hinted at , that still remain for the perfection of this theory ; such as the laws of heat , that obtain in the different regions of the atmosphere ; the effects of moisture , winds , the electric fluid , together with the weight and qualities of the air in different countries , &amp;c. ; that at the same time that I am congratulating the present age on one of the most brilliant discoveries in natural philosophy , I may be understood also to encourage every lover of science to still farther enquiries in a branch of knowledge no less useful than ingenious ; particularly in a kingdom wherein , from its commercial interests , and in consequence its many inland navigations , every improvement in hydrostatics , the art of levelling , or geometry , cannot but tend considerably to the public benefit .
The sources of science are not easily exhausted ; multitudes of them remain wholly unexplored .
If novelty can afford a charm , the path I am speaking of , till of late , has been the least frequented ; witness the fresh , important truths in Pneumatical researches that , from zeal and fashion , every day 's experience affords .
I might here offer too a tribute of applause ( and am sure in concert with this whole assembly ) justly due to the indefatigable labours of him whose steps I have pursued ; but I am convinced he will rather hear me acknowledge our obligations to the ancients than any panegyric of himself .
Be the benefit we receive from them our encouragement to proceed .
Multum egerunt , qui ante nos fuerunt , sed non peregerunt : multum adhuc restat operis , multumque restabit ; nec ulli nato post mill saecula praecludetur occasio aliquid adhuc adjiciendi .
' ' SEN .
Epist .
64 .
PART II .
IN the subsequent pages , which I have now the honour of laying before the Royal Society , I have drawn up , and I hope in a form the most commodious , the necessary tables and precepts for calculating any accessible heights or depths from barometrical observations , and without which I thought the preceding memoir would be incomplete ; referring , however , to that for the proofs or elements from whence the tables have been computed .
And herein I have endeavoured to adapt myself to the capacity of such persons as are but little conversant with mathematical computations , but who may have frequent opportunities of contributing something to the advancement of science by experiments with this useful instrument , which is now become nearly in as common possession as a pocket watch .
I have industriously avoided the method of logarithms , proposed by Dr. HALLEY , and adopted by Mr. DE LUC , both because such tables are not in the hands of every body , and because I have perceived that many persons of a philosophical turn , though skilled only in common arithmetic , have been frightened by the very name : a method less popular , however elegant , would have been less generally useful .
To these tables is subjoined a list of several altitudes , as determined by the barometer : this will serve to show the use I have made of the instrument , and will at the same time exhibit the level of a great number of places in France , Savoy , and Italy , and , as I think , be no improper supplement to exemplify the rules .
It might have been expected that I should have said something on the theory of barometrical observations , and have laid down the laws and principles on which it depends ; but as that has been so amply done by other writers of incontested authority , I shall content myself with inserting only the following propositions .
1st , The difference of elevation of two places may be determined by the weight of the vertical column of the atmosphere intercepted between them .
2d , If then the weight of the whole atmosphere at each place can be ascertained , the weight of this column , viz. their difference , will be known .
3d , But the height of the quicksilver in the barometer expresses the total weight of the atmosphere in the place of observation ; the difference , therefore , of the height of the barometer , observed in two places at the same time , will express the difference of elevation of the two places .
4th , But further , the weight of this column of the atmosphere is liable to some variations , being diminished by heat , and augmented by cold ; and again , a similar alteration takes place in the column of quicksilver , which is the measure of this weight .
5th , If then the degree of these variations can be determined , and the temperature of the air and quicksilver at the time of observation be known , the weight of this column of air , or the difference of elevation of the two places , will be concluded as certainly as if the gravity of these two fluids , with all heats , remained invariably the same : this is the whole mystery of barometrical measurement .
APPLICATIO N. The height of the barometer in English inches at any two places at the same instant , and the heat ( according to FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer ) to which it is exposed , being known , together with the temperature of the air at each place , observed with a similar instrument ; required the difference of elevation of the two places in English feet .
RUL E. Precept the 1st , With the difference of the two thermometers that give the heat of the barometer ( and which , for distinction sake , I shall call the attached thermometers(e ) ) enter table I. with the degrees of heat in the column on the left hand , and with the height of the barometer in inches , in the horizontal line at the top ; in the common point of meeting of the two lines will be found the correction for the expansion of the quicksilver ( e ) It is scarce necessary to remark , that , in order to make good conclusive observations , it is proper to be furnished with two barometers , and four thermometers ; viz. one attached or inserted in the frame of each barometer ; and the other two detached from them , in order to take the heat of the open air ; for it will seldom be found , that the thermometer in the frame of the barometer and that in the air will stand at the same point , and for a very evident reason .
by heat , expressed in thousandth parts of an English inch ; which added to the coldest barometer , or subtracted from the hottest , will give the height of the two barometers , such as would have obtained had both instruments been exposed to the same temperature .
Precept the 2d , With these corrected heights of the barometers enter table II .
and take out respectively the numbers corresponding to the nearest tenth of an inch ; and if the barometers , corrected as in the first precept , are found to stand at an even tenth , without any further fraction , the difference of these two tabular numbers ( found by subtracting the less from the greater ) will give the approximate height in English feet .
But if , as will commonly happen , the correct height of the barometers should not be at an even tenth , write out the difference for one entire tenth , found in the column adjoining , entitled Differences ; and with this number enter table III .
of proportional parts in the first vertical column to the left hand , or in the 11th column , and with the next decimal following the tenths of an inch in the height of the barometer ( viz. the hundredths ) enter the horizontal line at the top , the point of meeting will give a certain number of feet , which write down by itself ; do the same by the next decimal figure in the height of the barometer ( viz. the thousandths of an inch ) with this difference , striking off the last cipher to the right hand for a fraction ; add together the two numbers thus found in the table of proportionable parts , and their sum subduct from the tabular numbers just found in table II .
; the differences of the tabular numbers , so diminished , will give the approximate height in English feet .
Precept the 3d , Add together the degrees of the two detached or air-thermometers , and divide their sum by 2 , the quotient will be an intermediate heat , and must be taken for the mean temperature of the vertical column of air intercepted between the two places of observation : if this temperature should be 31~1/ 4 on the thermometer , then will the approximate height , before found , be the true height ; but if not , take its difference from 31~1/ 4 , and with this difference seek the correction in table IV .
for the expansion of air , with the number of degrees in the vertical column on the left hand , and the approximate height to the nearest thousand feet in the horizontal line at the top ; for the hundred feet strike off one cipher to the right hand ; for the tens strike off two ; for the units three : the sum of these several numbers added to the approximate height , if the temperature be greater than 31~1/ 4 , subtracted if less , will give the correct height in English feet .
An example or two will make this quite plain .
EXAMPLE I. Let the height of the barometer , observed at the bottom of a mountain be 29.4 inches , the attached thermometer 50~ , and the heat of the air 45~ ; at the same time that at the top of the mountain the barometer is found to stand at 25.190 inches , the attached thermometer at 46~ , and the air-thermometer at 39~1/ 2 ; required the height of the mountain in English feet .
Set the numbers down in the following order : This last observation was actually made , and the height geometrically was determined to be 4211.3 feet , not quite two feet different .
In this example it will be observed , that as the height of the barometer is set down to four places of decimals ; the tabular numbers , answering to every tenth only , are corrected by means of table III .
of proportional parts , for the remaining decimals 8 , 9 , and 2 , in one place ; and 3 , 1 , 8 , in the other ; and their sum is subducted from the numbers found in table II .
And lastly , that in finding the correction for 28~.7 of heat , the fraction 7/ 10 is considered as so many units , and another decimal is struck off ; thus the correction on 3000 feet for 7~ is 51 ; but for 7/ 10 it becomes 5 .
1 , and so of the rest .
EXAMPLE III .
In the upper gallery of the dome of St. Peter 's church at Rome , and 50 feet below the top of the cross , I observed the barometer , from a mean of several observations , 29.5218 ; the thermometer attached being at 56~.6 , and the detached one at 57~ ; at the same time that another , placed on the banks of the Tyber one foot above the surface of the water , stood at 30.0168 , the attached thermometer at 60~.6 , and the detached one at 60~.2 ; what was the total height of this building above the level of the river ?
When the difference of the heights of the quicksilver in the two barometers happens not to exceed 1/ 10 or even 2/ 10 of an inch ( and this will frequently be the case in levelling flat countries , or measuring small heights ) in such circumstances the most convenient way of reducing the observations will be by means of the column of differences only ; those numbers expressing the length of a column of the atmosphere which corresponds to 1/ 10 of an inch of quicksilver , at any assigned height of the barometer .
EXAMPLE IV .
Suppose the following observations had been made at the top and bottom of any eminence ; viz. at the top , barometer 29.985 inches , attached thermometer 70~5 , detached thermometer 76~ ; and below , barometer at 30.082 , attached thermometer 71~ , and the detached one 68~ ; what was the height of the eminence ?

