108 Chemistry of the Plant Cell .
[ June 11 , The cause of the pink colour of the acid noticed by Mr. Crompton and others was investigated , and found to be permanganic acid , formed probably from the manganese present in commercial lead .
In conclusion , the author points out:\#151 ; That " peroxides " are found in appreciable quantities in the electrolyte during charge and discharge ; That their influence must not be neglected in considering the behaviour of the Plant cell ; And that it is to the electrolyte rather than to the plates that attention must be directed if any considerable improvement is to be effected .
IV .
" A Study of the Plant Lead-Sulphuric Acid-Lead Peroxide Cell , from a Chemical Stand-point .
Part II.\#151 ; A Discussion of the Chemical Changes occurring in the Cell .
" By H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. , and G. II .
Robertson .
Received June 4 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The authors arrive in this paper at the following conclusions:\#151 ; 1 .
That the cooling observed in the Plant cell can only be explained as resulting from the dissociation of the dilute sulphuric acid ; and as the values given by Messrs. Ayrton , Lamb , Smith , and Woods are in practical agreement with those calculated on the assumption that the acid used is sulphuric acid itself , H2SO4 , that in all probability such acid and not the dilute acid contained in the cell is operative throughout .
2 .
That the observed loss in efficiency cannot be due to temperature changes , as these arise through actions occurring out of circuit .
3 .
That it is difficult from a comparison of calculated with observed values of the E.M.F. to arrive at any final conclusion as to the exact nature of the changes which take place in the cell .
On the assumption that sulphating occurs at both plates in circuit and under the influence of H2S04 , the calculated value is considerably too high ; while , if sulphating occur only at the lead plate , the value calculated is far too low .
4 .
That a counter E.M.P. of about 0'5 volt would account for the observed departure from the highest calculated value .
As peroxides are always present in the electrolyte , it is conceivable that such a counter E.M.F. may exist ; moreover , there is also the possible influence of the lead support to be considered .
5 .
That the observed loss of efficiency is to be attributed to the formation of peroxides in the electrolyte , and to the excessive sulphating occurring chiefly at the peroxide plate in the local circuit existing between the support and the paste .

