]\gt ; December 16 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : 1 .
' Note on Specific Inductive Capacity By JOHN HOPKINSON : M.A. , , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1886 .
Consider a condenser folmed of two parallel plates ab distance each other , their area A being so great , or the distance so small , that the whole of the lines of force may bo considered to bc uniformly distributed perpendicular to the plates .
The between the plates is occupied by air , or by any insulating fluid .
Let be the charge of the condenser and the difference of potential between the plates .
If the dielectric be air , there is every reason to believe that Voc , that is , there is for air a constant of specific inductive capacity .
My experiments ( [ 1880 ] 'Phil .
Trans , , p. 355 that in the case of flint-glass the ratio of tc is sensibly constant over a of valtles of V from 200 volts cm .
to 50,000 volts per cm .
From experiments in which the dielectric is one or other of a number of fluids and values of upwards ol 30,000 volts per cm .
are used , Professor Quincke Wiedemann , Annalen , that the value of is somewhat less for great electric forces than for small .
the experiments described in that paper , and from his previous experiments Annalen , he also concludes that the specific inductive capacity determined the mechanical force resisting separation of the plates is 10 per cent. to 50 cent. greater than that determined by the actual chal.ge of condenser .
The purpose of the present note is to examine the relations of these important conclusions , making as few assumptions ns possible .
The potenbial difference is a function of the charge and distance , and if the dielectric be given of nothing else .
The work done in cbarging the condenser with charge .
If the distance of the plates be changed to , the work done in giving Dr. J. Hopkinson . .
lt the same charge is , hence the mechanical force resisting separation of the plates .
If the dielectric be air , , and the attractive force between the plates is or If be the constant as determined by an experiment orr the force betweon the plates when the potential difference is and distance is .
( 1 ) If be the dielectric constant obta , ined by direct comparisons of and , . . . . .
whence ) We ordinarily ssume that ; if so , .
These results follow quite independently of any suppositions abont the nature of electricity , about action at a distance , or tensions and pressures in the dielectric .
Yet another method of determining the dielectric capacity of fluids has been used by Professor Quincke .
Let a bubble of air be introduced between the two plates , let the area of the bubble be , and let be the excess of pressure in the bnbble above that in the external air when the potential is , allowance being first made for capillary action .
The condenser now consists of two parts , one a fluid condenser area , the other an air condenser area , we have mechanical work done in increasing the area of the bubble from to with constant charge\mdash ; but this work is whence Now , 188 On Inductive Capacity .
455 where , when the whole space is occupied by flnid , and the distance is The being constant we and for the purposs of transforming the whence , ( 4 ) .
( 5 ) Writing with Qnincke for the dielectric constant determined by a measurement of , we have by substituting in , and integrating as though were constant , , ( 6 ) which may be taken as the definition of whence , ( 7 ) but from 5 ) we have , since in .
( 8 ) But 456 Dr. J. Hopkinson .
[ Dec. 16 , Hitherto we have made no assumption excepting that energy is not dissipated in a condeIlser by charge and discharge .
We now make an assumption concerning , namely , that it is of the form i. e. , that , or in words , that the capacity of a condenser varies inversely as the distance between the plates .
Then we have\mdash ; . . . . .
9 In words , the specific inductive capacity as determined by charge or discharge of a condenser at any given potential and distance between plates is the arithmetic mean of the inductive capacity determined by the force resisting separation of the plates and of that determined by lateral pressure , the potential and distance being the same .
is true whatever be the between charge and potential dffierence , but it is at variance with the experimental result that and are both greater than K. tlrther ) .
Tn the accompanying curve , let abscissa of any point of the cnrve OQP represent , ordinate .
If area ONPQO area of iangle ONP , i.e. , unless the curve has a point of inflexion between and , the fact that implies that increases with V , \mdash ; a conclusion again at variance experimental results .
We are thus unable to account for the ation on the hypothesis that the capacity val.iesinverse ] as .
Let us now suppose that , that is to , that however the depend on the distance , it is independent of the charge , or is for amy a@86 .
] On Specifo Inductive Capacity .
igiven condenser .
It at once follows that , which is discordant with observation .
Consider , however , the ratio\mdash ; since when is constant .
Suppose positive constant quantity greater than unity\mdash ; , a constant as regards or We could , therefore , account for being greater than by sup. posing that the potential difference with given charge per unit of area does Ilot vary as but as .
Such a supposition would be sub .
versive of all accepted ideas of electrostatics .
There remains one other consideration to be named .
We have assumed throughout that the charge of the condenser depends only on the distance of the plates and their difference of potential , and independent of previous charges or of the time the difference of poten .
tial has existed .
We have ignored residual oharge .
It is easy to what its effect will be on determinations of made by measuring potential and charge of the condenser .
It is not so obvious what effect will be in all cases on the force between the plates .
Consider a complete cycle of operations : the condenssr is charged with quantity the distance between the plates is increased from to , the denser is discharged and the plates return to their initial position .
The work done respectively in charging the condenser , ratin the plates , and recovered in discharging the condenser , will depend on the rate at which hese opera , tions are performed .
There are ideally two ways of performing them , so that no energy is dissipated by residual charge , first , under certain reservations , so rapidIy that no residual charge is developed ; second , so slowly that at each potential the residual charge is fully developed ; in either case the potential is a fnnction of the then charge , and not of the antecedent charges .
The attraction between the plates will differ according as the charge is an instantaneous one or has been long applied .
If a liquid found exhibiting a considerable slowly developed residual charge , the capacity determined by attraction wibh continuous charge would be greater than the capacity determined by an instantaneous discharge of the condenser through a galvauometer or into another condenser .
VOL. XLI .
2 I Prof. Quincke .
[ Dec. 16 , I am not aware that residual charge has been observed in any liquid dielectric .
The results obtained by Professor Quincke are not easy to reconcile .
For that reason it is the more desirable that their full significance should be ascertained .
Full information is given of all the details of his experiments except on one point .
It is not stated whether , in the experiments for determining by direct discharge of the condenser , the capacity of the connexion and key was ascertained .
It wollld in ordinary arrangements of key be very appreciable in comparison with the capacity of the condenser itself .
If neglected effect would be to a certain extent to give too low a value of the effect being most marked when is large .
I have made a few preliminary experiments to delermine for oil lvith several different samples , and both with continuous charges and intermittent charges from an coil .
The values of range from to .
Professor Quincke 's resuIts in his first paper are The properoy of double refraction in liquids caused by electrification is sometimes cited as showing hat electrification is not proportionaI to electromobive force .
The fact that the double refraction in a liquid under powerful electromotive forces is very small would further show that there is a cIose approximatiou to proportionality , and that the deviation from proportionality would be insensible to any electrostatic test .
Such conclusions , however , cannot be safely drawn in the case of bodies such as castor-oil , in which .
In such bodies , assuming the electromagnetic theory of light , the yielding to electromotive force is much greater if the force be applied for such time as second than when applied for 10-14 second , and it is quite possible that the law of proportionality might be untrue in the former case , but very nearly or quite true in the latter .
" " Addendum to Dr. Hopkinson 's 'Note on Specific Inductive Capacity.\ldquo ; ' By Professor QUINCIKE , For .
Mem. R.S. Received December 5 , 1886 .
Notiz uber die Dielectricitatsconstante von Flussigkeiten , von G. Quin Bei Gelegenheit einer Untersuchung der Eigenschaften dielectrischer Flussigkeiten ( ' Wiedemann , Annalen , ' vol. 19 , ; vol. 28 1886 , p. 529 ) hat ich die Dielectricitatsconstante mit der electrischen Wage oder dem hydrostatisch gemessenen Druck einer Luftblase osser gefunden , als mit der Capacitat eines Condensators , der von Luft oder isolirender Fllissigkeit umgeben ist , und beim Umlegen eines SchlusseIs durch einen Mnltiplicator entladen wird .

