79 A Wave-length Comparator for Standards of Length .
By Dr. A. E. H. Tutton , F.R.S. ( Received June 9 , \#151 ; Read June 10 , 1909 .
) ( Abstract .
) Two and a-half years ago the author was requested by the Standards Department of the Board of Trade to devise and superintend the construction of a new comparator , for comparing standards of length\#151 ; the Imperial Standard Yard , for instance , with official or other copies\#151 ; in terms of wavelengths of light .
The instrument now described is the result .
Besides performing its functions as a wave-length comparator , and being the first instrument specifically constructed as such , it is also the most perfect instrument yet devised for measurement in wave-lengths in general .
It is described to the Royal Society by permission of the President of the Board of Trade .
The principle of the instrument is that of the author 's interferometer , described to the Society in 1898 in connection with an interference dilato-meter , and again as improved in 1904 in connection with the author 's elasmometer or interference elasticity apparatus .
The interferometer , which is totally different from that of Miehelson or that of Fabry and Perot , is adapted as regards details in a special manner for the specific object in view , but with the exception that a Hilger constant deviation prism is employed instead of a train of two spectroscope prisms , its principle is preserved intact .
The essential point of the instrument is that one of the two microscopes , employed to focus the two defining lines on a standard yard bar , actually carries just above the objective one of the two glass plates of the interference apparatus , which reflect the monochromatic light ( hydrogen or cadmium red radiation ) which is caused to interfere and produce rectilinear dark bands .
When the microscope is moved the plate consequently moves with it , and the amount of movement is absolutely afforded by the movement of the interference bands , being equal to half the wave-length of the light employed for every band which passes the reference spot in the centre of the field of the interferometer telescope .
So perfectly has this fine movement been achieved that the microscope and the bands can be caused to move simultaneously , by rotation of a large , fine-adjustment wheel , so steadily that each band can be made to pass the reference spot as slowly as one wishes 80 A Wave-length Comparator for Standards of Length .
and be arrested instantly , without the slightest tremor , at any fraction of its width , so that the control of the bands and the counting is a perfectly simple matter .
In order to compare two standard bars , it is only necessary ( 1 ) to place the bar of known length , supported on an elaborate mechanism for the adjustment of the bars , under the two microscopes , carried on massive yet delicately-moving sliders on a 6-foot V-and-plane bed , so that the two defining lines are adjusted between the spider-lines of the micrometer eyepiece in each case ; ( 2 ) to replace the standard by the copy to be tested , so that the defining line near one end is similarly adjusted under the corresponding microscope ; then , if the other defining mark is not also automatically adjusted under the second microscope which carries the glass interference plate , as it should be if it is an exact copy , ( 3 ) to traverse that microscope until it is so adjusted , and ( 4 ) to observe and count the number of interference bands which move past the reference spot during the process .
The difference between the bars is this number multiplied by the half-wave-length of the light in which the bands are produced .
The paper also gives an account of the electrical and thermal arrangements , as well as of the foundation masonry of the new comparator room .
The temperature of the whole room is controlled entirely electrically , being maintained constant at the official temperature , 62 ' Fahr. The thermostatic arrangements are of an original character , and of two different independent types\#151 ; a thermometric and a resistance type .

