IV .
" On the Chemical Activity of Nitrates .
" By EDMUND J. MILLs , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. A. W. WILLIAMSON .
Received April 21 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) In the course of his researches upon nitro-compounds , the author found it extremely desirable to submit the genetic relations of those bodies to a detailed examination ; in other words , to trace the modifications undergone by nitryl as it is transmitted ( from the chloride , hydrate , or free radical ) through an adequate succession of combinations .
One of the first steps in this direction is the preparation of nitrylic chloride , which can be most easily effected , according to a statement in Watts 's 'Dictionary of Chemistry ' * , by the action of phosphoric oxychloride on plumbic nitrate3 Pb ( NO3)2+2 PO C1=Pb3(PO4)2+6 NO2C1 .
Among other modes of verifying this equation , the examination of the residue left behind when excess of the oxychloride is heated with plumbic nitrate , and then distilled off in a current of dry air , appeared the most simple and obvious .
The results were found not to agree with the equation ; and after three nitrates had been tried , a.law of chemical activity became evident , rendering the reaction worthy of pursuit for its own sake , although , as an available source of nitrylic chloride , it had failed entirely. .
The nature and mode of establishment of this law constitute the subjects of the author 's memoir .
When a nitrate is treated with phosphoric oxychloride , as has just been mentioned , the residue contains phosphoric oxide and a metallic chloride .
Within the limits of experimental error , or subject to other satisfactory explanation , the ratio between these two products is constant for each nitrate ; and from that ratio a quotient a can be found as follows : weight of chlorine C1 weight of chlorine aweight of phosphoric oxide weight of phosphoric oxide P O , This quotient , which is different for each nitrate , is termed the " coefficient of chemical activity " of nitrates , and the method of obtaining it is designated the " method of ratios .
" The data from which a is deduced , namely , certain weights of argentic chloride and magnesic pyrophosphate , are , if singly considered , new with each experiment ; they depend on time , rate of heating , the state of division of the nitrate , and other conditions .
But , assuming the results to have been brought about under a law of chemical action , the values of c must be independent of those circumstances , by which the primitive numerator and denominator could have been only pari passu affected ; they are related only to the actual occurrence of the reaction .
This property , in a chemical ratio , has not , it is believed , been previously observed .
After describing the means employed for obtaining a current of dry air , the apparatus required for the reaction , and the individual experiments which were severally made , the following Table of results is given , Z being the symbolic value of a nitrate , and Q- .
a SQ Argentic nitrate ... ... . .
5'48 169'94 31-01 Plumbic nitrate ... ... . .
5-17 165'56 32-02 Rubidic nitrate ... ... . .
2-38 147-40 61-93 Cmesic nitrate ... ... ... .
2-21 195-01 88-24 Potassic nitrate ... ... . .
1-99 101-14 50-82 Sodic nitrate ... ... .
1 70 85-05 50-03 Lithic nitrate ... ... ... .
1'61 69-00 42-86 The above list probably contains all the metallic nitrates that can be completely dried , excepting nitrates derived from amines and amides , which , in the present state of our knowledge of the phosphamides , it was evidently advisable to exclude .
In the silver group , the mean value of Q is 31-11 ; and the following equation may be accepted therefore:31'11 In the potassium group we have likewise 50'42 Hence , within each set of nitrates , chemical activity is in direct proportion to symbolic value .
It is further sufficiently apparent that ( excepting rubidic nitrate ) a and I increase and diminish in the same general order .
Within the limits of error , the Q column is an incomplete arithmetical series , the most probable value of whose first term is 6'258 , so that Q=m 6-258 , in being integral .
Reasons are then adduced for identifying the number 6-25 with Dulong and Petit 's constant of specific heat .
Moreover , since the product of specific heat and symbolic value is , generally , n 6-25 , and m is greater than n , taking mnz==n and s-=the specific heat of a nitrate , we have Q=xn 6-25 , but zs-=n 6'25 ; .-. .
Q=xZs , S 2_ 1 and aQ the expression for chemical activity in terms of specific heat .
Comparing the coefficients ( ( , at ) for any two nitrates , the followingrelations are obtained:a mC 2I Z 's ' in I ' xg tS ; and it is shown that these formulae agree sufficiently well with experiment .
Where m=-m and x=-- , we have the simple expression ta s 8 The values of Q are strictly equivalent to each other in point of activity .
The author believes that a is commensurate with the elective function of chemical attraction , first discovered by Bergman .
IHe terminates the memoir with a reference to some well-known instances of chemical action ( such as that of argentic nitrate on a mixture of aqueous potassic chloride , bromide , and iodide ) , as serving to bestow a presumptive generality on his principal conclusions .

