II .
" Preliminary Notice on the Products of the Destructive Distillation of the Sulphobenzolates .
" By JOHN STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received February 15 , 1865 .
The salt which I have hitherto chiefly employed is the sulphobenzolate of soda , C12 H5 Na 2SO , which was prepared according to Mitscherlich's* directions , by precipitating crude sulphobenzolate of lime by carbonate of soda , separating the carbonate of lime produced , and evaporating the clear solution to dryness .
The finely powdered salt , which had previously been thoroughly dried , was introduced into a small copper retort and subjected to destructive distillation , when a considerable quantity of carbonic acid was evolved , and a brownish-coloured oily liquid , covered by a layer of water , collected in the receiver .
This oil was separated from the water and distilled in a retort furnished with a thermometer .
The liquid began to boil at 80 ?
C. , and then rose slowly to 110 ?
C. , when only a small quantity of water , and an oil consisting chiefly of benzol , came over .
The boiling-point then rapidly rose to 290 ?
C. , at which temperature the greater portion of the liquid distilled over , leaving a black residue in the retort .
The oil boiling at 2900 C. is of a pale yellow colour , heavier than water , and has an aromatic and slightly alliaceous odour .
It contains a considerable amount of sulphur .
When this oil is brought in contact with nitric acid , a very violent action ensues with evolution of nitrous fumes , and when the resulting solution is poured into water , a crystalline mass of a pale yellow colour is obtained .
This , when dried and washed with ether to separate a small quantity of adhering oil , is dissolved in hot spirit , from which , on cooling , two colourless crystalline substances separate .
The first of these , which constitutes the bulk of the product , forms beautiful rhombic plates , which , when crystallized out of benzol , may be obtained of considerable size and great lustre , closely resembling chlorate of potassa in appearance .
This body also contains sulphur .
The second substance , the quantity of which is comparatively small , crystallizes in long thin plates .
The oil , when treated with concentrated sulphuric acid , dissolves with a fine purple colour , and from this solution water precipitates a crystalline body , an organic acid remaining in solution , which forms a crystalline lime-salt .
I have likewise subjected to destructive distillation the sulphobenzolates of lime , ammonia , and copper .
The two last yield very different products from the soda-salt .
I am at present ellgaged in examining these as well as the other bodies mentioned in this Notice , and hope soon to be able to communicate to the Society the results of my investigations .

