XXVIII .
The Effects of the Hyoscyamus albus , or white Henbane ; in a Letter to Dr. John Pringle , F. R. S. from Dr. John Stedman , late Surgeon-Major to the Regiment of the Royal Grey Dragoons .
SIR , Edinburgh , Octob. 2 , 1750 .
IN the month of August 1748 , whilst the Greys were cantoon 'd in the village of Vucht near Boisleduc in Dutch Brabant , five men and two women of that regiment having eaten of the leaves of the hyoscyamus albus , shred and boiled in broth , were soon after seized with a giddiness and stupor , as if drunk .
I saw them about three hours after having eat of it ; and then three of the men were become quite insensible , did not know their comrades , talked incoherently , and were in as high a delirium , as people in the rage of a fever .
All of them had low irregular pulses , slaver 'd , and frequently changed colour : their eyes looked fiery , and they catch 'd at whatever lay next them , calling out , that it was going to fall .
They complained of their legs being powerless .
I mixed what ipecacuana I had with me in warm water , and made them drink it ; and afterwards threw in as much warm water and oil , as I could prevail with them to swallow .
Those , who were not insensible , vomited freely , and were relieved by it .
Two of the three affected with delirium , tho ' they drank great quantities , did not vomit , but had profuse sweats , and passed plenty of urine , Read May 16 .
urine , by which they were likewise somewhat relieved .
The third of these was obstinate , nor could be prevailed upon to do any thing .
The symptoms with him continued longer , and were more violent .
He was so restless , that , notwithstanding he could not walk , two of his comrades were not able to keep him in a chair .
Next morning they had no other complaint than people commonly have after great drinking ; but afterwards ( tho ' the danger seemed over ) some of them complained of feebleness and a weight at their stomachs ; others , of gripes , stitches , headache ; and all of them were vertiginous at times .
These complaints continued above a month after the accident .
One of the women had her hands stiff and swelled ; whether from the action of the vomit , or the force of the poison , I know not .
The man , who pulled these leaves in mistake for another plant , said , that from the nearest conjecture he could make , there might be from fifteen to twenty leaves , boiled in about ten quarts of water .
They did not eat one half of that quantity , and the poison began to discover itself with some of them in half an hour .
This seemed to be the hyoscyamus major albus of Caspar Bauhinus .
It is easily known by its large duskish bell-flower ; but if not in the flower , the remarkable noisome smell of the leaf , somewhat narcotic , if once known , will ever after discover it .
Some time before this accident , we had a proof of the effect of the yew-tree upon some of our horses : they were put into an orchard , where they cropped the branches of these trees , and about four hours after , without any previous symptom of disorder , dropped down , and after a struggle of a minute or two died .
This was probably about the time , that the juice entered the blood .
Remarks by Mr. William Watson , F. R. S. Upon reading the above paper , Mr. Watson observed , that the effects therein mentioned could not arise from the hyoscyamus albus , or white henbane , as Dr. Stedman imagines ; that plant , from the concurrent testimony of the best botanical writers , not being found so far north as Brabant : but the mischief was done by the hyoscyamus niger , or black henbane , which grows plentifully there , as well as almost all over Europe in uncultivated places , and by the sides of roads .
The white on the contrary is sown in gardens , and not found spontaneous in higher latitudes than the southern parts of France .
Dr. Stedman 's description demonstrates likewise the above plant to be the hyoscyamus niger , as he says , that ` ` it is known by its duskish bell-flower .
' ' The flower of black henbane is of that hue , being of a yellow colour interspersed with veins of purple ; whereas the flower of the white henbane is of a pale-yellow colour .
This error arises from the improper denomination imposed upon many plants by the ancients , and which has been preserved even since the revival of letters ; which , to one not very well acquainted with botany , is liable to mislead .
Thus , in the case before us , the leaves of the black henbane are very little less white than those of the white ; but this denomination took its rise from the different colour of their seeds .
In such cases therefore , without being well acquainted with the specific difference of each plant , before it ripens its seed , it is not a little difficult to distinguish them one from the other .
This specific difference will be best furnished by the leaves .
Thus in the henbane , the leaves of the white are placed upon long footstalks ; those of the black have none , but the lower extremity of the leaf surrounds the stalk .

