II .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S.-No .
II .
Action of Chloroform upon Aniline .
Received April 15 , 1858 .
In a former Note addressed to the Royal Society ( Proceedings , vol. ix .
p. 150 ) , I have alluded to some new alkaloids which are produced by the action of the bromides of triatomic alcohols upon the primary amidogen bases .
I have since examined more minutely one of these bodies .
At the common temperature , chloroform and aniline may be left in contact for a considerable time without any change becoming perceptible .
Even at the temperature of boiling water scarcely any reaction takes place .
But on exposing for ten or twelve hours a mixture of about equal volumes of chloroform and aniline in sealed tubes to a temperature of 180 ?
or 190 ?
C. , a hard brown crystalline mass is obtained , which consists chiefly of the hydrochlorates of aniline and of a new crystalline base .
To obtain this compound in a state of purity , the brown crystalline mixture formed in the digester-tubes is triturated with a small quantity of water , thrown upon a filter and washed with water .
The first washings chiefly consist of hydrochlorate of aniline , which base separates in oily globules on addition of potassa to the filtrate .
By testing the filtrate in this manner from time to time , it is found that the basic body separated by addition of potassa gradually exhibits a tendency to solidify , and ultimately falls as a yellowish-white crystalline precipitate .
The residue upon the filter is now dissolved in warm ( not boiling ) water , separated by a filter from a brown resinous insoluble substance , and precipitated by ammonia or potassa .
The crystalline precipitate obtained in this manner is washed till free from alkali , and repeatedly crystallized from weak spirit .
It is difficult to obtain it perfectly white , a yellowish substance , which appears to be partly formed during the process of solution , adhering with great pertinacity .
Thus obtained , the new base is a white crystalline powder ; frequently it is obtained in minute scales , generally of a yellowish tint .
It is insoluble in water , but readily dissolves in alcohol and ether .
From the hot solution in these solvents it is precipitated by water as a yellow oil , solidifying on cooling with crystalline structure .
It is easily dissolved by acids , with many of which it forms crystalline compounds .
From the saline solutions thus produced the base is reprecipitated by potassa and also by ammonia .
The salts of the new base are not very stable ; their solutions , especially when heated for some time , inevitably contain more or less aniline , the crystalline base itself undergoing changes which I have not yet sufficiently examined .
The analysis of the new compound presents some difficulty .
Even after protracted exposure over sulphuric acid in the exsiccator , it retains a small quantity of water , while a temperature of 100 ?
is apt to decompose it .
The nature of the body was , however , readily established by the examination of a perfectly stable hydrochlorate , and also of a very definite platinum-salt .
The results obtained in the analysis of these salts establish for the new base the formula CpT26 2x ( C12 1-15)2 6Hi12 ~2-=(C2 H ) ' } N2 .
It is obviously formed by the substitution of the triatomic molecule ( C2H ) " ' for 3 equivalents of hydrogen in 2 molecules of aniline , which thus coalesce into a diamine molecule .
Accordingly the base might be called diphenyl-formyl-diamine , that is , diammonia , in which 2 equivalents of hydrogen are replaced by 2 molecules of phenyl , and 3 equivalents of hydrogen by 1 molecule of formyl , 1 equivalent of hydrogen remaining unreplaced .
Its formation is expressed by the equation 4(C12 H7 N ) + C2 HC13= C26 H 12 N2 HC1 + 2(C12 H7 N1 IC1 ) L_'.__--I _-___r-_ D..y_ _ Phenylamine Terchloride Hydrochlorate of Hydrochlorate of aniline .
of formyl diphenyl-formylplenylamine .
( chloroform ) , diamine , As seen from this equation , the new base , although unmistakeably corresponding to 2 molecules of ammonia , like many other polyammonias , is monoacid .
The analysis of the hydrochlorate leads in fact to the formula C26 H12 N2 , HC1 .
The platinum-salt contains C26 H12 N2 , HC1 , PtC,2 .
The new derivative of aniline undergoes several remarkable changes which require further elucidation .

