]\gt ; Contributions to the Study of Flicker . .
III .
By T. C. PORTER , M.A. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. Received January 2 , \mdash ; Read April 25 , 1912 .
) Since the last papers*the research has been continued at intervals through the nine years .
Some numerical errors on pp. 325 ) in the last paper have been detected by the author , but nothing ] in the least degree alters the main results of that paper , viz. , that the number of revolutions per second which a disc having a white sector , and a black sector must make in order that the flicker may just vanish , under an illumination I , iven by an equation of the form , being a constant , and of the form , where and are constants .
If the disc is considered to be under unit illumination when lighted by a standard stearine candle , burning .
of stearine per hour , at a distance of 4 metres ; that is , if I is taken to 1 under these conditions , then , from the combination of the series of observations described in Papers I and II , with many others made since , it follows that the numerical value of is deternlined with a very fair degree of accuracy to wilhin at most three revolutions per second , and generally within one , from the equations , for discs half white , half black , and , when the of the white sector is These two equations hold only for illuminations above , i.e. that given by the candle at 2 metres distance .
For illuminations below , the two corresponding equations to be used are , for the disc , and for discs with a white sector , other than , the equation gives satisfactory values for white sectors larger than , but not so consistent 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 63 , p. 347 , and vol. 70 , p. 313 .
VOL. LXXXVI.\mdash ; A. 2 Dr. T. C. Porter .
[ Jan. 2 , with experimental results in the case of smaller white sectors .
A number of careful experiments were made to determine whether the suspected sudden change in the slope of the straight line expressing the variation of with I was real or not ( the break is shown in Paper II , fig. 2 ) , with the that it is fully confirmed , the line being certainly broken , apparently sharply , at very approximately illumination 4 , i.e. of the candle at 2 metres .
This shows well in of the present paper , the details for the various new points being given , without omissions , in the accompanying table .
The made with the axis of X by the upper part of the line , given as in Paper II , seems to be more accurately represented as , whilst that by the lower , conjectured from few readings made for Paper II to be , is found to be very nearly .
The experimental details and precautions observed were the same as those already described .
To produce the lower illuminations , a single thickness of filter paper was placed in front of the standard candle , so as to cut off part of its light , and the brightness of the residual light was found to be , the paper at 647 mm. distance giving the same illumination as another standard candle at 2500 mm. The lowest value of at which flicker on a half-white disc was observed to disappear was 5 , in a room almost completely dark , and after 1912 .
] Contributions to the Study of Flicker : more than an hour , and then by The cause of the above-mentioned remarkable discontinuity can only , at present , be conjectured in the light of experiments to be presently dib It cannot well be due to the cessation of the expansion of the of the eye as the illumination falls , for it is evident that this expansion tends to keep the retina better illuminated , and therefore to make fall more slowly ; that is , if the pupil ceased to expand , would fall more rapidly with decreasing illumination , whereas , whatever be the cause of the change in the line , it is one which makes ?
fall more slowly .
Experiments to determine the law connecting the of the pupil with the illumination have been begun ; it seemed desirable to fix , if possible , the limit to the expansion ; to this end the eyes to be examined were kept in Paper II , p. 31 1912 .
] Contributions to the Study Flicker .
powder 's constituents , or from the little heap of conbustible having a tail which prolongs the " " exposure Seven different pairs of eyes were tried , with the result that the ratio of the diameter of the iris 's outer circle to that of the pupil varied from nearly four-thirds to three-halves .
The last mentioned will be found to be that in .
Attempts were made at first to measure this ratio under various degrees of illumination with a telescope and micrometer eyepiece , but the results were unsatisfactory .
At low illuminations the limit of the dark pupil was very hard to see , and made almost invisible by the necessary artificial illumination of the spider lines , and , at higher values of I , the pupil was never steady enough , not only moving slightly .
as a whole , whilst measurements were being taken , but also constantly changing its diameter slightly , now , now contracting .
The flash-light method is free from these objections ; the eyes can be fixed on the white disc while they are , the flash made well to the side of the disc .
The measurements taken so far only show that it is unlikely that the variation of the pupil 's size at illuminations less than 16 any considerable part in the form or dimensions of the curves given .
The sectors of white and black on a disc may be arranged symmetrically or not .
If there be only one sector of each sort , it may now be said that we know the rate at which the disc must be rotated under a given illumination in order that flicker may just vanish , for all possible values of the two sectors .
How is this rate affected if there are more than two sectors ?
A definite answer can be given for one class of disc , viz. , that in which there are the same number of sectors of white and black , and all of these of the same angle .
Take , for example , a disc with four sectors of alternately white and black .
It is clear that , at any rate of rotation , such a disc presents to the eye exactly the same stimulus and rest periods as a disc half white , half black , if the .-sector disc be made to go round at half the speed of the other ; consequently , if it require , say , 40 revolutions per second to make a " " half-and-half\ldquo ; disc 's flicker vanish under a given illumination , it will require exactly 20 revolutions per second to make the disc in quarters show no flicker at the same illumination .
Experiment shows that this is exactly true ; under all illuminations , a disc in qnarters becomes flickerless at exactly half the speed necessary for a disc halves .
A disc of six sectors , three white and three black , is flickerless at one-third the speed of the half-and-half when the latter is just fiickerless ( the illunlination being the same ) .
The following is a typical experiment : A disc was divided into three concentric rings , the innermost made of white and 18 black ; the next , with sectors , alternately white and black ; whilst Dr. T. C. Porter .
[ Jan. 2 , outermost ring was divided into 12 equal sectors , six white , six black .
The disc had 24 holes in its rim , and the notes it gave were : ( a ) For disappearance of flicker in the innermost ring A above ( b ) For the middle ring : A below ( c ) For the outelmos6 ring above all three notes sounded very exactly .
Another experiment was made with a white disc with two concentric rings , the inner a half white , half black ; whilst the outer was divided into 24 equal sectors , alternately white and black .
On rotating this under a certain illumination , the flicker for the inner circle vanished at above , or vibrations per second , whilst the flicker for the outer ring vanished at below ( vibrations per second ) .
Now The number of revolutions per second necessary for flicker just to vanish under a given illumination is therefore in all perfectly symmetrical discs inversely proportional to the number of sectors .
This fact has proved very useful in the present research , for when examining the rotation necessary for a half-and-half disc under high illuminations , the speed of rotation of the disc is very great , and if the disc has , say , 12 holes , the pitch of the note emitted is high .
This means that any error in judging the pitch of the sound makes a large error in the value of inferred .
If the number of holes in the syren is diminished , the sound it gives is too much enfeebled .
The pitch of a note is most correctly estimated when it lies within the register of the experimenter 's own voice , The remedy for this difficulty with high speeds is to use a disc with two or three times as many sectors ; flickel .
will then disappear at a half or a third the speed necessary for the half-and-half disc , and then , by the above law , we can calculate the speed of the latter .
The law for perfectly symmetrical discs is also useful if the flicker disc is used to measure bright illuminations such as obtain out of doors in summer weather .
These can be estimated , with a near approach to accuracy , and without requiring any great speed ( though it must be even ) , if a disc with sectors be used , alternately white and black .
Asymmetric , with four or more \mdash ; The exact general law connecting and the number and distribution of the sectors has not yet been found , but the following facts have been proved:\mdash ; ( a ) The flicker on the asymmetric disc always vanishes at a higher rate of rotation than on the perfectly symmetrical disc of the same number of sectors , and the same sum of the white sectors ' angles .
a disc was made up of the four following sectors taken clockwise in 1912 .
] to the Study of Flicke , order round the disc , 12 black , white , black , and white , whilst the central part of the disc was a circle with four equal sectors of alternately black and white .
The rates of rotation for flicker to vanish in these two arrangements were as 3 to 2 , the asymmetrical the higher speed .
Another asymmetric disc consisted of four white sectors of , whilst between these white sectors came , in order , black sectors of , and respectively .
The corresponding symmetrical disc , occupying the central portion of the other , is a1145o sectors , alternately black and white .
The relative rates of rotation of these two arrangements were also , as 3 : 2 , and also just half the rates necessary for the corresponding discs in the last experiment The reason for this last fact is , obviously , that the corresponding discs in the two experiments are similar , but have twice as many sectors in the second case .
( b ) The direction of rotation makes no difference to with an asymmetric disc .
To ascertain this it is necessary to make the conditions of illumination , etc. , exactly the same in the two cases , and this is very difficult to do in practice , and so the device shown in fig. 3 was resorted to .
The inner circle , going round it dockwise , shows white , 12 black , white , black ; the outer circle , going round it in the clirection , shows black , white , black , 12 white , which is the order of the sectors of the inner circle taken in the reverse direction , so that by rotating this disc we get , under exactly the same conditions , the effect of rotating the asymmetric disc first way , and then the other , under similar conditions .
result of the experiment is that , until flicker vanishes , the " " oppositely rotating\ldquo ; arrangements present a strikingly different but each becomes flickerless at the same moment , and at that llolnent of precisely the same even grey , the same grey as that of auy other disc which is , on the whole , half white and half black , and under same illumination .
At this of the enquiry it was considered to verify tally that a disc , half black , half white , rotating fl ) under illumination 2 , looks precisely the same grey as a wholly white disc ( made of the same material ) under illumina The two discs were arranged at the proper calculated distances from the source of illumination , and viewed so that the nearer overlapped the more distant , and also so that the background to both the discs was black ( so that any contrast effects might be the same for both ) .
The two discs seemed like Dr. T. C. Porter .
[ Jan. 2 , one , and when viewed through a tube which cut off the background , it was impossible for the observer to tell where one disc began and the other ended .
In the same way it was experimentally shown that the grey of a blackand-white disc , when flickerless under illumination I , appears always to match the all-white disc under an illumination , where is the sum of the angles of the white sectors .
It follows from this that the apparent luminosity of all black-and-white discs under the same illumination is the same , if is the same ; but the converse not true , the apparent luminosity of two flickerless discs under the same illumination may be precisely the same , and yet the angle of the black sector may be different in the two discs ; indeed one disc may be entirely white , and the other may have a black sector by no means small under some conditions of illumination , and yet these two may , to the eye , form a perfect match , when flickerless .
The next experiments were , therefore , undertaken to measure the magnitude of the black sector which could be placed in a white disc , rotating so fast as to be quite flickerless , without producing any appreciable difference to the htness ( albedo ) of the disc .
For the sake of brevity such a black sector will be referred to as a vanishing sector , and its magnitude in degrees as .
A white disc was prepared with a concentric broad black ring upon it , and this was dovetailed , after Maxwell 's plan , with another wholly white disc made from the same cardboard ; thus a variable sector of black could produced with white on each side of it .
If the black sector were greater than could completely vanish on swiftly rotating the disc , the appearance presented was of a more or less dark tOTey ring on a white ground ; when , however , the breadth of the black sector was below a certain ynitude , no such grey ring could be seen , the disc appeared of uniform brightness .
It was manifestly of great interest to see whether Weber 's law would hold in this case , .
to find out whether the width of the vanishing black sector would be 1 per cent. of the total stimulus given by the white of the disc .
This would mean that , at all illuminations , a white disc would not be rendered appreciably darker by a sector of of absolute black .
On a bright day in a well lit room , of Indian ink ( which had been proved to reflect per cent. of white light ) just vanished ; whilst at metres from a powerful arc light , of this same black disappeared\mdash ; so that for ordinary daylight illuminations , Weber 's law may be said to hold good , but it was soon found that as the illumination of the disc is lowered below these , the magnituule of the vanishing black sector grows .
If be the ular magnitude of the black sector , I the illumination , and and constants , the equation connecting them was found to be , I. 1912 .
] Contributions to the Study Flicker .
Several very careful determinations of the value of for different illuminations were made ; the results of three typical ones can be seen in fig. 4 .
The points marked 1 were made by a observer , who , however , took no very special precautions to secure a steady state of the retina : only ( i ) avoiding looking at the disc except when ( ii ) never looking at the illuminant ; ( iii ) shutting his eyes and covering his head with black velvet cloth when a moderate was used in the room for the purpose of reading the distance of the disc from the illuminant .
It will be seen that the readings are very consistent , and are all greater than in the other two cases .
The points in marked 3 were obtained , on the other hand , every precaution experience has suggested for securing extreme sensitiveness of the retina , and also for it constant .
The observer , after more than an hour in a very feeble light , spent half an hour in total darkness , and except when he inspected the very faintly illuminated disc , each time fainter still , he remained in total darkness .
About seven minntes elapsed between each The results again are very consistent , and the line expressing growth of the black sector with the diminishing arithm of the illumination is very nearly parallel to the first line .
The points marked 2 are typical of the results obtain in an experiment where for the higher illuminations the observer has had no Dr. T. C. Porter .
[ Jan. 2 , preliminary rest , has taken the readings rather rapidly , used the black cloth for the lower illuminations , but has looked accidentally at a feeble flame once twice .
The points lie between the other two sets , but they diverge much more from lineal arrangement .
Unit illumination for these experiments is the same which has been used throughout the whole research , namely , that of the standard candle 4 metres off , and the lowest illumination , whose logarithm is , is to that of the candle at a distance of metres .
By using an illumination much lower than this , it was found possible to witness quite certainly the vanishing of a sector of of black .
In this case the eyes had been in darkness more than two hours .
except for looking at very feebly illuminated discs for a minute or two at a time .
The grey reappears with a very slight rise in the illumination .
Whilst watching this ring on the disc , if the illumination of the disc is cut off completely and , the ring appears to expand outwards and inwards over the white on both sides of it , and so to render the disc black and invisible .
The feebly illuminated disc itself , much more the grey ring on it , was quite invisible to another observer , whose eyes , though fairly rested , had not been in complete darkness , so that the line of points 1 on fig. 4 must come to an end far above the end of the line for the points 3 , and also the disturbance of the retina by the brightness of the disc at higher illuminations must in practice the line 3 to an end before it has extended far upwards .
( N.B.\mdash ; In this and many other cases the observer was not the writer , and had no idea of the purpose for which he was observing ; he had in every case normal and very keen sight , and was generally between 17 and 19 years of age .
) The full dattt for these observations will be found in the table on the opposite The oing experiment seems to the writer of considerable importance , not only on account of the light it throws on flicker phenomena , but also because it ives a numerical measure of the power of perceiving contrast at varying ( a ) It accounts for the small amount of detail in a landscape under feeble light , e.g. moonlight , and it gives a reason for the wonderful amount of detail visible in clear air under brilliant sunshine .
There are , in general , two ways of making an object clear to the eye : one is to make the object appear large , either by constructing it large , or bringing it near to the eye ; the other , which is very useful in exhibiting small objects to a large number of people at ones , to illuminate it brightly .
( b ) The law also applies to any photometer , in which the relative brightnesses 912 .
] Contributions to the Study of Flicker .
N.B.\mdash ; In fig. 4 there is probably a shalT turn here in the region Illumination 10 because for all much greater illuminations seems to be almost .
the hopes to examine point .
of two sources of light are compared by comparing ( i ) the brightnesses of two surfaces lit up by these sources at a distance from the illuminants , or ( ii ) the depth of two shadows cast by the illuminants on a screen .
The experiments prove that the eye incapa.ble of disti u contrasts which lie between certain limits , these limits growing wider apart as the logarithm of the illumination diminishes .
Thus , taking the photometer used in these experiments and described in Paper II , p. 316 , fig. 1 , where the from each of the sources to be compared passes through one side of each of two right-angled prisms respectively , and thence to the hypotenuse , whence it is reflected ' totally\ldquo ; on to the third side of each prism , side is finely evenly ground , \mdash ; if the illumiuants are low in power , or if the photometer is far from them , the on the scale when the eye the illumination of the two prism faces to be equal must partly depend upon the in which the photometer has been moved to strike the balance .
Thns , in , let and be the sources of the } ) hotometer ; the1l if be Dr. T. C. Porter .
[ Jan. 2 , moved from left to right only , and A is the point where the faces of first seem equally bright , ( the left face ) will still in reality be brighter ( the right prism 's face ) by an amount , say , which is the same fraction of the apparent brightness of the faces of that the vanishing black sector is of the whole of the white disc which looks as bright as P. Similarly , if is moved only from right to left till the balance is again struck , say first at the point , then at will be brighter than by the same amount .
Thus the il]uminations of and within the space AB , which may with reason be called the " " blind space are comparable with the various invisible differences of albedo of a rotating flickerless white disc with a black sector of any nitude from to and since we know that becomes large for low illuminations , the space AB must increase with the fall of illumination and in accordance with the logarithmic law given in this paper .
Having found the points A and in any particular experiment , we can find the true ratio of the two illuminants , for if I and I ' be the intrinsic brightness of the two illuminants at and , then At A illumination of by I is therefore At A illumination of by I ' is Similarly At illumination of by I ' is ' therefore At illumination of by I is ' whence ; and since the quantities on the right side of this equation are known , is determined .
Also if is the point of true equality of illumination , and , then from which can be found .
When using the photometer thus , and moving it up to , or , always in the same direction , it is necessary to close and rest the eyes before deciding whether it has been moved far enough , because , to take for example the determination of , as has always been brighter than during this motion , the retinal fatigue caused by will be greater than that caused by , and it will be found that , after resting the eyes , has to be 1912 .
] Contributions to the Study of Flicke : advanced a little more .
If great accuracy is required , the eyes should be rested approximately equally when the other position , , is being found .
With higher illuminations of the photometer faces , the interval is found , as it should be , to be much smaller , and more difficult to trace .
The retinal fatigue is then greater , and by far the more serious source of error .
To give the results of one of several experiments:\mdash ; Two very small gas flames were used , run from a wide branched tube , so that any possible change in pressure should affe , ct both flames equally ( the measuring scale was 60 inches long , and was graduated from zero on the left , this zero was inches from I , the true zero , and inches from I ' .
from left to right .
28.31 Moving from right to left .
30.51 27.36 I.e. , AB inches .
The left flame , measured against a standard candle , gave its intrinsic brightness as .
Therefore I ' by method given ) and the point , fig. 5 , is then found to ) , i.e. to the of , and inch to the left of B. Now the illumination of .
at A is and , , , , , , The difference between these , multiplied by 2 ( because not only does the of diminish in moviog from A to , but that of increases in nearly the same ratio , since I and I ' are not very unequal ) , is the imperceptible decrease of uination at illumination .
As apercentage of this last illumination this is equal to Now the illumination given by the standard caodle at 4 metres is the unit brightness of the disc , and the brightness of a white disc at point Dr. T. C. Porter .
[ Jan. 2 , in the photometer experiment is found to be , the logarithm of which is .
On referring to fig. 4 , we find the of the vanishing black sector at this illumination , for well rested eyes , about , or corrected for 5 per cent. of white light in the black pigment used , , which , as a percentage of the all-white disc , is .
This tallies well with the result of the photometer experiment , when we remember that the apparent illumination of the photometer face is a little greater than that of the white cardboard at the same distance from the gas flame .
It appears from the facts expressed in fig. 4 that it is possible , and not very difficult , to express numericalty the state of the retina as regards excitability by finding the magnitude of , and further , that it is by no means impossible to keep the state of the retina fairly constant , even allowing for some brief but considerable changes in the illumination of the room the observer is in , that the state required is not that of exceeding sensitiveness ; to maintain this last , very little variation can be permitted , and that must be followed by several minutes ' complete rest .
To return to The equation which best represents the line 1 is where is the angular width of the black sector in degrees , and I is the illumination measured in terms of the illumination given by the standard candle before described , at a distance of 4 metres .
To make plain the connection between and ( the number of revolutions per second which must be iven to a disc so that it may just become flickerless ) , suppose a white disc , with one black sector , to rotate very slowly before the eye .
If it turn slowly enough , the excitation of the retina afforded by the white of the white sector will rise to its maximum ( measured by I , the illumination the disc is under ) , say from A to fig. , measured vertically ; whilst the black sector passes , the excitation , which for brevity 's sake will be called , falls completely , to its first level , as BC .
If the disc 's rate of rotation be gradually quickened , it is certain that soon neither sinks so low , nor rises so } .
This can be proved by comparing the apparent white and black of the respective sectors as they pass , with the white and black of a second similar disc , kept at rest , and placed near the rotating disc so as to be under the same illumination ; the rences are plain to any observer , and , as the rate of rotation is increased , become plainer still .
Thus it is certain that the curve expressing the variations of roughly resembles fig. , and the oscillations eventually tako place about the line which expresses the final 1912 .
] Contributions to tloe Study of Flicker .
value of .
In fig. , drawn for a " " half-and-half\ldquo ; disc , the final value of is half its value for the all-whire disc ( proved already ) .
In fig. we have the similar curve for a disc with one white sector of , the final value of being one quarter its maximum value .
In every case , so soon the rise and fall of become equal to the rise and ] caused by , the vanishing sector on an otherwise white disc for the particular value of brightness shown by the first-mentioned disc at the moment , \mdash ; then flicker vanishes .
For example , \mdash ; for the half-black , half-white disc iu fig. 6 pose that KL is the alnplitude of the variation of ( shown enlarged out of proportion in fig. ) , when flicker just yanishes , then , if the disc is kept turning at this rate , the imperceptible variations will continue of the same magnitude as long as the disc seems of the same brightness , and if its apparent diminishes from retinal fatigue or any othel cause , then , since the value of the black sectol the brightness falls , the flicker will manil.estly be further from visibility .
In other words , if a disc is once flickerless , provided that its illulnination be not raised , nor the rate of rotation slackened , it will flickerless .
This is consistent with experience .
Gazing at a flicker ] disc makes the flicker reappear , and it is plain that in judging whether a disc is flickerless or not , it is well to be as quick as possible .
The total excitation caused by the passage of the white sector when flicker just vanishes is expressed in fig. by , the actual rise by , and the fall by , for when flicker just vanishes ( not necessarily at other speed ) the rise and fall of must be equal , for if either were the greater , the effect would be cumulative , and the disc must apparently brighter or Dr. T. C. Porter .
[ Jan. 2 , darker , whereas as a fact it remains of the same apparent brightness , namely , OQ .
Thus , if the white and black sectors are of equal magnitude , the mean rate of rise of must be equal to the mean rate of fall of during the passage of the white and black sectors respectively , and if the white and black sectors are of unequal magnitude then , at the rate of rotation for which flicker just vanishes ( not necessarily at any other rate ) , the rate o of ( whilst the white sector passes ) must be to the of fall of ( whilst the black sector passes ) as the time the black sector takes to pass is to the time the white sector takes to pass , that is as the angular magnitude of the black sector is to the angular magnitude of the white sector .
Now KL fig. is to the apparent brightness of the disc ( OQ ) as , the magnitude of the vanishin , .
sector in degrees , is to , or , since is indistinguishable from 36 in brightness , to Thus , if we know and , and , the rate of rotation for flicker just to vanish , we can find the rate of rise and rate of fall of , when the mean value of is of the highest value the disc can give , i.e. , 360 .
Now these quantities have been measured during this investigation , and equations connecting them have been established .
We can find the three above-mentioned quantities for every , say , of increase of the white sector under a given constant illumination , and therefore we can find the rate of rise and fall of when it is just reaching these mean values .
lf we that the rwte of rise and fall of " " \ldquo ; at a given value of " " when " " \ldquo ; is not approaching a tirniting value , is proportional to these rates found for series of limiting values , we can also arrive at a definite idea of the curve which expresses the rise of the excitation of the retina with time , when we look at a flickerless rotating or , equally well , the same white disc , or any other equally white surface , at rest .
It is necessary first , however , to find by experiment the size of for discs of a variable black sector .
For example , if a disc , half white , half black , is rotating under , say , unit illumination , and therefore appearing as bright as a wholly white disc under illumination 2 , will the value of be the same for the two discs , and , if not , how will it differ ?
We can see that it cannot be the same , for in one case is half its value in the other , and the apparent brightness depends on as well as on the illumination , so that a black sector of given breadth must have twice as darkening an effect on the half-and-half disc as on the other .
This leads to the conclusion that must be the same fraction of ths white sector in all cases ( I being constant ) .
To test this lsion , half a disc was painted black , and an additional black sector of was added symmetrically , as shown in fig. 7 .
1912 .
] ibutlons to the Study of Flicker .
This additional sector was found by experiment to vanish completely under an illumination of a candle of standard candle power at a distance of metres .
If we calculate what value must have with an all-white disc to vanish at the same illumination ) using the equation given for line 1 , fig. 4 , we find it to be almost exactly ; i.e. , for the white disc must be halved for the half-and-half disc which looks as bright .
If , then , is the value of the vanishing black sector for an otherwise all-white disc , then is its value for a disc of white sector ; e.g. , suppose on an otherwise white disc , then on a disc with white and 27 black , an additional of black will vanish .
On a disc with four sectors of each , two white , two black , will vanish , and so on , if the illuminations are such that the apparent brightnesses of all the three discs when flickerless are the same .
We can now deduce the form of the curve expressing the rise and fall of the retinal excitation , or , perhaps , more correctly , of the apparent brightness of a white surface , illuminated to a given degree , and suddenly presented to the eye , previously in a feeble illumination ( because in the particular cases for which formulae have been given , the eyes of the observers had not been rested in complete darkness ) , the fall of the excitation happening when the surface is suddenly made to disappear into the same almost complete darkness .
For the illumination of the surface , take that of the standard candle at a distance of 87 cm .
, so that I and From the equation connecting I and , we find From the equation connecting , and , calculate the values of for the various values of , from , etc. , up to In each case the actual rise of ( not the total rise ) , when the critical speed of rotation is reached , is , as we have proved , To find the rate of rise of , divide the rise of in each case by the time in seconds the white sector takes to pass , i.e. , .
Thus the rate required , which To find the rate of fall of at the same value of : we have already proved that the rate of fall is to the rate of rise as is to , so that the rate of fall rate of rise .
The curve thus obtained is seen in fig. 8 .
The unit of time is the second , The equation actually uaed here was .
VOL. LXXXVL\mdash ; A 2 The Nature of the excited by 513 and two of the paper divisions the axis of X go to one second , whilst five units of retinal excitenlent , or apparent brightness , go to every degree along the axis of .
It is therefore evident that , if the curve is to represent the actual rate of rise and fall of retinal excitation when one looks at a white surface of the albedo stated , and which is afterwards made to disappear , the time scale must be different from that just mentioned .
From rather rough experients made with a photographic shutter by the writer , it would appear that the whole of the rise from to 36 takes about half a second : if this be true , and the assumption mentioned above ( in italics ) be correct , we must consider each of the paper divisions , of which every other one is marked in black along the axis of X , to represent one twentieth part of one second .
The data for the construction of the curve are given in the foregoing table .
The .
the excited by -Rays .
By J. A. GRAY , B.Sc. , lS51 Exhibition Scholar , niversity of Melbourne ; Hon. Research Fellow , University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received February 24 , \mdash ; Read Iarch21 , 1912 .
) In a previous pape was shown ] the -rays of radium excited -rays in different materials , the amount increasing with the atomic weight of the substance used .
It found that the -radiation was increased when the -rays fell on a lead screen suitably placed , as the active material , radium , was mixed with lead sulphate confined in a small space , it was obvious that some , if not all , of the -radiation from the mixture was due to -rays excited by -rays in the lead impurity .
It thus seemed possible that no primary -rays were emitted by radium E. By using a more suitable source , in which the active material was spread in a thin layer over filter paper , it has been found that a primary -radiation is emitted from the active matter .
This radiation , however , is much soitel than that excited by the -rays in lead .
A more detailed account of these primary rays win be given later .
The main object of the present investigation was to examine carefully the question whether the -ray excited by a -ray travels in the direction of the * Gray , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p. 131 .
In the paper mentioned , the term secondary -rays was given to -rays excited by -rays .
To distinguish , however , another phenomenon , described later , the term " " exoited\ldquo ; -rays is now nsed .

