II .
Abstract of a Memoir " On the Electric Properties of Insulating or Noni-conducting Bodies .
" By Professor CARLO MATTEUCCI of Pisa .
Communicated by MajorGeneral SABINE , R.A. , V.P. and Treas .
R.S. Received April 14 , 1859 .
The object of the author in the first part of this memoir is to ascertain by experiment what corndition is assumed by insulating or non-conducting bodies in the presence of an electrified body , and in what degree such condition is developed in insuilating bodies of different kinds .
In a memoir published nearly ten years ago ( Ann. de Chim .
et de P1hys .
, xxvii .
p. 134 ) , he had shown that a cylinder of gum-lac , sulphur , stearic acid , or the like , suspended by a filament of silk , and brought near to a body charged with electricity , begins to oscillate in the same way as a cylinder of metal .
The non-conducting cylinlder , whilst nuider the influence of induction , behaves like any body charged with opposite electricities , and returns to its natural state when the induction ceases .
These experiments have now been very carefiully repeated with cylinders formed of various inisulating substances , made as nearly as possible of the same lelngth and perfectly diselectrized , The air was rendered perfectly dry , and the inducing ball was charged with electricity to a constant degree , ineasured by the torsion-balance .
After giving a numerical statement of the time of oscillation and the moment of the induced force , as determined by experiment for cylinders of different insulating substances , and after describing other experiments intended to prove the insulating property of the materials employed , the author goes on to observe that there is but one way of explaining the pheniomena in question , namely , by supposing that the individual particles or molecules of the non-conducting cylinder acquire different electrical states at their opposite extremities , and that these electrical states , while they are readily developed and neutralized within each particle , meet with great resistance in passing from one particle to another , -a condition of non-conducting bodies which constitutes the molecular electric polarization of Faraday .
The author then gives the result of some experiments on the amount of electrical eharge conmmunicated to , or given out by an insulated conducting ball surrounded , at one time by air , at another time by an insulating substanee , such as sulphur .
In conclusion , the author thinks that the following propositions may be regarded as rigorously demonstrated by experiment : 1 .
The effects produced on insulating cylinders in the presence of an electrified body , depend on the state of molecular electric Jpolarity which that body developes in the cylinders ; and thus the hypothesis of Faraday is directly demonstrated by experiment .
2 .
Other circumstances being alike , the insulating power of a substance is greater in proportion as its degree of polarization is weaker .
3 .
The electric capacity of a conducting body-that is , the quantity of electricity which it acquires when placed in communication with a source of electricity-is much greater when the body is surrounded with sulphur , or some other solid isolating substance , than when surrounded by air .
Similarly , the body being electrified from the same source and then surrounded with sulphur , or else surrounded with air , afterwards yields to the same conductor much less electricity in the former case than in the latter .
4 .
The effects produced by insulating plates interposed between the armatures of a Leyden jar or of a magic square are explained , together with the phenomena previously described , both by the penetration of the electricity into the interior of the insulating substance , and the propagation of electricity along the surface of the plates. .

