8 .
" On the Structure and Functions of the Spleen .
" By Thomas Gordon Hake , M.D. Communicated by Francis Kiernan , Esq. , F.R.S. The author , passing in review the various opinions which have been advanced by anatomists respecting the intimate structure of the spleen , arrives at the conclusion that hitherto only vague and premature inductions have been made .
It is generally admitted that the fibrous envelope of this organ is formed of the external fibres of the splenic vein ; and that from the internal surface of this envelope fibrous prolongations are continued into the interior of its substance , giving support to a fine cellular membrane , which is continuous with their edges , and variously reflected so as to constitute cells .
The parenchyma , or solid structure of the spleen , everywhere accompanies these membranous productions , and forms the exterior walls of the cells ; being composed of branches of the splenic arteries , of the granular terminations of those arteries constituting the splenic grains of Malpighi , of venules , which ramify around the splenic grains , and of cellules , into which the venules open , and from which the splenic veins take their rise .
The author concludes , as the result of his inquiries , that a dilatable cellular tissue exists , containing venous blood , between the granules within which the arteries terminate , and the venules on the outer side of the splenic grains : that the venous membrane , which is continued from the cells to the cellules , as well as to the venules , becoming more and more attenuated , but without changing its essential structure , gradually loses its tubular form , and resumes its primitive character of cellular tissue ; and that the artery , in like manner , is limited in its distri ?
bution within the granules by a cellular structure , which becomes vicarious of it , and determines the function it has to perform .
The author , in conclusion , offers some observations on the pro ?
bable functions of the spleen .
He considers the opinion which supposes that organ to be distended , at particular times , with arterial blood , as being completely refuted by the evidence derived from the preceding account of its minute structure ; and suggests the probability of the spleen being rather a diverticulum for venous blood .
The paper is accompanied by seven highly finished drawings illustrating : the structures described .

