The third paper was entitled , " On the Structure of the Human Placenta and its connection with the Uterus .
" By Robert Lee , M.D. F.R.S. Physician to the British Lying-in Hospital .
In the year 1780 Mr. John Hunter presented a paper to the Royal Society , in which he laid claim to the discovery of the true structure of the placenta , and of its vascular connections with the uterus .
From a the appearances which he observed in a preparation of the gravid uterus , after both the veins and arteries had been injected , and a longitudinal incision made through the anterior parietes of the uterus where the placenta adhered to its internal surface , he was led to conclude that the arteries which are not immediately employed in conveying nourishment to the uterus go on towards the placenta , and proceeding obliquely between it and the uterus , pass through the decidua without ramifying ; and that just before entering the placenta , after making two or three spiral turns , they open at once into its spongy substance .
The corresponding veins he represents as commencing from the spongy substance of the placenta by wide mouths , and after passing obliquely through the decidua , entering the substance of the uterus and immediately communicating with the proper veins of that organ .
Dr. Wm. Hunter 's description of the same vessels accords with that of his brother .
He regards the placenta as consisting of two distinct parts , namely , an umbilical portion which belongs to the foetus , and a uterine portion , which belongs to the mother , each having its peculiar system of arteries and veins ; and he supposes that while , in the foetal portion , the arteries and veins form continuous canals , these two sets of vessels communicate , in the uterine portion , by the intervention of cells , into which the arteries terminate , and from which the veins begin .
The subject was afterwards investigated by Noortwych , Roederer , and Haller , but without any satisfactory result ; and the doctrines laid down by the Hunters were generally acquiesced in by subsequent anatomists .
The author of the present paper having had opportunities of exa ?
mining six gravid uteri , and many placenta* expelled in natural labour , finds reason to conclude that no cellular structure , such as that described by Dr. Hunter , exists in the human placenta , and that there is no connection between this organ and the uterus by great arteries and veins .
He thinks himself warranted in concluding that the placenta does not consist of two portions , maternal and foetal , but that the whole of the blood sent to the uterus by the spermatic and hypogastric arteries , except the small portion supplied to its pa ?
rietes and to the membrana decidua by the inner membrane of the uterus , flows into the uterine veins or sinuses ; and , after circulating through them , is returned into the general circulation of the mother by the spermatic and hypogastric veins , without entering the substance of the placenta .
Such have been the results of the author 's own examinations of the structure of the gravid uterus , both when injected and uninjected ; and also of an examination of the preparations of that organ , contained in the Hunterian Museum at Glasgow , made at his request by Dr. Nimmo .
These views are also corroborated by the careful examination by the author of a preparation of the uterus with the placenta adhering to its inner surface , in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of London , which is supposed to have been put up by Mr. Hunter himself nearly fifty years ago .
The cellular structure of the placenta has been too hastilv in ?
ferred from the masses of wax found interspersed in its substance , after the vessels have been injected ; but this appearance the author ascribes wholly to extravasation in consequence of rupture of the vessels .

