1879 .
] On the Histology of Hydra fusca .
IX .
" On the Histology of Hydra fusca " By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , Lecturer on Biology in Bedford College , London , and Demonstrator in the Royal School of Mines .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December 11 , 1879 .
( From the Biological Laboratory of the Royal School of Mines .
) [ PlATE 1 .
] The few observations I have to offer on this much-discussed subject are partly confirmatory of , partly supplementary to , those of Kleinen-berg , * they present a certain agreement with those of F. E. Schulze , t while they are , in great measure , distinctly contradictory of the later researches of Korotneff .
J 1 .
The Ectoderm and the Muscular Layer.\#151 ; The layer of longitudinal fibres between the ectoderm and the endoderm was discovered by Kolliker , who believed that each fibre was in direct connexion with an endoderm cell .
Kleinenberg , in teased specimens , saw that the ectoderm cells tapered towards their inner ends , and that each was continued into a simple or branched process , of precisely the same character as the fibres seen in sections : from this observation the important conclusion was arrived at , that the fibres were in direct continuity with the ectoderm cells , thus forming a sort of nascent mesoderm .
Schulze figures the elements of the middle layer as fusiform fibres , with somewhat jagged edges .
Korotneff , following Kleinenberg s directions as to methods of preparation , came to the conclusion that the ectoderm cells were expanded ( ) at their inner ends , and that each carried a fusiform refringent fibre , attached by its middle to the enlarged base of the cell , and projecting beyond it in either direction , so that the cell appeared as a lateral appendage ( ) of the fibre , rather than the fibre as a prolongation of the cell .
How M. Korotneff can have come to this conclusion as to the shape of the ectoderm cells , it is rather difficult to imagine ; by any ordinary method of preparation it is perfectly easy to satisfy oneself that the ectoderm cells of the body are , as a rule , markedly distinguished from those of the endoderm by the tapering of their inner ends ; and , in good specimens , that these ends are continued into longer or shorter filaments .
The question of the exact relations of the fibres is by no means so easy to decide .
Anyone working at Hydra for a week or two , * " Hydra , " 1872 . .
+ " Ueber den Bau u. die Entwicklung von Cordylopbora lucusfcris , " 1871 .
J " Histologie de l'Hydre et de la Lucernaire .
" " Arch , de Zool. exp , " t. v , ( 1876 ) , p. 369 .
Mr. T. J. Parker .
[ Dec. 18 , j and using various methods of preparation , might readily frame a dozen different theories on this point , all equally supported by ap- j pearances .
But the matter seems to me to be entirely set at rest by 4 thin longitudinal sections of specimens preserved in ammonic bi- j chromate , which reagent usually has the effect of causing a certain ij amount of separation between the layers .
In such sections ( fig. 1 ) [ the ectoderm cells ( ec .
) are distinctly seen to taper oflf towards their inner ends ; the fibres ( m.p. ) to pass from them , at a sharp angle , | towards the endoderm , or , more correctly , towards the supporting j lamella ; and , in some cases ( e.g. , the fibre to which the line from m.p. points ) , the fibres can be distinctly traced into the attenuated i extremities of the cells .
As to the true nature and functions of these structures , Dr. Kleiu-enberg calls the ectoderm cell with its filamentous process , a neuromuscle cell ; M. Korotneff prefers to name it an epithelio-muscle cell ; Prosessor Huxley* considers that the fibres " are solely internuncial in .
function , and therefore the primary form of nerves .
" This last view is rendered , to say the least , decidedly improbable , by the great number and the regular disposition of the fibres .
It seems , a , unlikely that an animal devoid of all museular tissue should have a layer of close-set longitudinal nerve-fibres throughout its whole body , while such an arrangement is perfectly intelligible in a set of specially contractile filaments , developed as a means of rapid retraction of the body .
The term " neuro-muscular " implies , as Kleinenberg explains , that the process only is contractile ; the function of the cell itself being merely to receive and transmit impressions .
But , as Professor Huxley points out , it is absolutely necessary to assume contractility in the cell proper , to account for the lengthening of the body .
The fibres merely have a special degree of contractility assigned to them , in correspondence with the obvious advantage accruing to the animal from the power of instantaneous shortening , the general contractility of the cells serving for extension ; this movement being , as observation of a living Hydra shows , a comparatively slow one .
The fibres must also be of use m the characteristic u looping " movements of the animal .
The simplest and most reasonable way of looking at these structures is that adopted by Dr. Michael Foster , and illustrated in the diagram at the beginning of the third chapter of his " Text-book of Physiology .
" These show clearly enough that the ectoderm cell of Hydra , with its muscular process , is the equivalent of what , in the higher animals , becomes sensory cell , sensory nerve , nerve cell , motor nerve , and muscle cell .
So that a fairly logical term might be made by # " Anat .
of Invert .
Animals , " p. 64 .
1879 .
] On the Histology of Hydra fusca .
combining Kleinenberg 's and Korotneff 's , and speaking of epithelio-nenro-muscle cell ; but , fortunately , it is unnecessary to employ any such cumbersome term , and quite sufficient to speak of ectoderm cell with contractile process .
The interstitial tissue , discovered by Kleinenberg , is quite readily made out in all parts of the body except the proximal end , where nematocysts are also absent .
It is not mentioned by Korotneff , and , indeed , its existence would be impossible if the large ectoderm cells had the shape described by him .
I have found no interstitial cells in the tentacles ( fig. 5 ) ; this would seem to show that the ordinary ectoderm cells may also be the mother cells of the nematocysts .
The ectoderm cells of the tentacles also differ from those of the body from the fact that their nuclei are non-nucleolate , resembling indeed the nucleoli of the body cells , rather than their nuclei ( fig. 5 ) .
2 .
The Supporting Lamella .
This structure is clearly distinguished by Schulze and by Korotneff , the latter of whom , however , figures it* as almost equal in thickness to the diameter of an ectoderm cell !
Kleinenberg states that the muscular processes are imbedded in a structureless cementing substance , and that this , continued beyond the muscular layer on the endoderm side , forms a layer\#151 ; the " Stiitz-lamelle " of Reichert\#151 ; which can sometimes be obtained as a separate structure .
This description by no means expresses the distinctness of the supporting lamella .
In specimens preserved in osmic acid , or ammonium bichromate , without subsequent treatment with alcohol , it is easy , by teasing with fine needles , to detach shreds of considerable extent , more or less free from attached muscular fibrils and from cells of the interstitial tissue ( fig. 2 ) .
3 .
The Endoderm.\#151 ; The ciliation of the endoderm is a question about which there has been a good deal of discussion .
Schulze figures a single flagellum to each cell , as seen in optical section of the tentacle .
Kleinenberg was unable to demonstrate the existence of flagella in the uninjured animal , or in preserved specimens , but in transverse sections of the living animal , he observed one or two cilia , in connexion with more or fewer of the cells , and noticed that they were not fixed structures , but were occasionally retracted , and then protruded again , the cells at the same time sending out pseudopodial processes .
It is quite easy to confirm this observation ; the slow lashing movement of the flagelliform cilia , their continual disappearance and reappearance in fresh places can be made out without difficulty .
But the best notion of the characters and relation of the cilia is obtained by teasing out , or still better , by cutting thin sections of * Loc .
cit. , PI .
15 , fig. 8 .
Mr. T. J. Parker .
[ Dec. 18 , osmic acid specimens .
Such preparations quite lead one to think that the endoderm is ciliated throughout ; in the sections particularly , ( fig. 3 ) , cell after cell is seen bearing one , two , or three cilia .
These latter are of great length , in fact nearly or quite as long as the cells to which they are attached ; in some cases indeed , they are longer , as , for instance in the cell to the right in fig. 6 .
I have never seen anything like a " collar " at the base of any of the cilia .
The amoeboid character of the endoderm cells , as seen in sections or teased fragments of the living animal , is a well-known fact ; but the extent and activity of the amoeboid movements during life has not been sufficiently insisted on .
In sections of picric acid or ammonic bichromate specimens , large rounded pseudopodia are seen to be given off from the cells into the digestive cavity , sometimes to such an extent as completely to obliterate the latter .
The length of the cells may , therefore , vary almost indefinitely ; they may be but little longer than the ectoderm cells { fig. 3 ) , or may be ( two or three times as long ( fig. 1 ) .
This variation in the size of the endoderm cells , and the consequent variation in the diameter of the digestive cavity , is very marked in my series of sections , nearly all of which are taken from large specimens , * killed in a state of half-extension .
When the endoderm cells are fully extended , it is almost impossible to obtain them complete by teasing .
They nearly always break across , and can only be obtained in a fragmentary condition .
A very noticeable point about the endoderm cells is the presence in their protoplasm , especially towards the far end , of dark-coloured irregular granules , of various sizes .
It has been suggested that these are products of excretion ; Kleinenberg makes the important observation that their number varies with ( the state of nutrition of the animal .
I am convinced that these bodies are food partieles , taken into the protoplasm of the cells , from the partially disintegrated bodies of the Entomostraca in the digestive cavity .
They are of quite the same nature as the 'Contents of the alimentary canal in many of the common Cladocera and Copepoda ?
they occur chiefly in the free end of the cell , and in some cases they have all the appearance of being half in and half out of the protoplasm .
( See fig. 5 .
) The particles of the more transparent parts of the body of the Crustaceans will naturally not be so evident in the cell protoplasm ; even these , however , can be made out in a Hydra in full digestion , when the endoderm cells of the distal or gastric region are completely crammed with transparent spheroids .
The clearest*case of ingestion of solid particles is that shown in fig. 1 , d , when a diatom is seen to be completely imbedded in the protoplasm of a cell : If this explanation of the dark granules is the correct one , Hydra * Supplied by Mr. Bolton , of Birmingham .
1879 .
] On the Histology of Hydra fusca .
will have been shown to exhibit a process of alimentation identical with that described by Metschinkoff , in the lower and in sponges.* The Russian observer describes the complete obliteration , during digestion , of the digestive cavity in the Turbellarians , and of the canals in the sponges ; and , in the former as well as the latter , he has undoubted evidence of the actual ingestion of solid particles by the endoderm cells .
It would seem , therefore , that Hydra adds another instance to the two already brought forward by Metschnikoff , of a Metazoon exhibiting what is usually considered to be a distinctively Protozoan mode of digestion .
It is quite possible that a preliminary disintegration of the animals taken in is performed by juices secreted by the endoderm cells , but the final digestion seems to take place in the actual protoplasm of the cells , into which the food articles are taken in the solid form .
The endoderm cells of the tentacles resemble those of the proximal and of the body in possessing larger vacuoles ( fig. 5 ) .
Their nuclei are in some instances , although not constantly , simple and non-nucleo-late like those of the ectoderm cells for the same region ( fig. 5 ) .
Finally , I have been able fully to confirm Professor Huxley 's state-mentf as to the presence of nematocysts in the endoderm ( fig. 1 , w ) , a statement which , as far as I am aware , has not been made , with regard to Hydra , by any other writer on the subject .
This fact is , like the absence of interstitial tissue in the tentacles , an argument against Kleinenberg 's view that the tissue is the sole source of the nematocysts .
4 .
Methods.\#151 ; For sections , the Hydros were either killed with hot water , and placed in Kleinenberg 's picric acid for two hours , or were placed alive in ammonic bichromate , 1 per cent.\#151 ; which always kills them in the half extended condition\#151 ; and kept in it for two or'three days .
In either case they were afterwards transferred to 50 per cent , alcohol , and then placed successively in 75 per cent. , 90 per cent. , and absolute alcohol .
The specimens were stained either with carmine or picrocarmine , and imbedded in cacao butter , after soaking for a short time first in oil of cloves and then in melted cacao butter .
By this means they became so thoroughly permeated with the imbedding material that they could be cut without the loss of a single section ; even longitudinal sections of the tentacles could be made with ease .
For teasing I employed ammonic bichromate , acetic acid ( 0*5 per cent. ) , or osmic acid ( 1 per cent. ) , and for this purpose the specimens were not transferred to alcohol , but to weak glycerine ( equal parts of glycerine and water ) , in which they were teased out .
* " Zool. Anzeiger , " Bd .
I ( 1878 ) , p. 387 , and " Zeitsch .
f. wiss .
Zool. " Bd .
xxxii ( 1879 ) .
It need hardly be said that the above view of the physiology of digestion in Hydra was suggested by these papers of Metschinkoff 's .
t Huxley and Martin , " Elementary Biology , " p. 100 .
VOL. XXX .
F 66 On the Histology of Hydra fusca .
[ Dec. 18 , For sections showing the cilia of the endoderm , the Hydros were kept for twenty-four hours in 1 per cent , osmic acid , then washed , and preserved in weak glycerine until required for cutting .
The sections were cut by Dr. Pritchard 's very convenient freezing microtome , the specimens being placed in gum water before freezing .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Reference letters .
ecectoderm .
en.f endoderm .
m.9 middle layer .
f. , food particles .
m. p. , muscular processes .
d.9 diatom included in an endoderm s. l.y supporting lamella .
cell .
i. t.y interstitial tissue .
c. , cilia .
no .y nematocysts .
Figure 1 .
Longitudinal section of the body , distal end , ( ammonic bichromate\#151 ; alcohol\#151 ; eosin ) .
The specimen was tilled in full digestion , the endoderm cells being gorged with food particles , amongst which is a diatom frustule .
The ectoderm and endoderm are unnaturally separated by the action of the bichromate , and the supporting lamella is not shown .
The nuclei are not well shown ; the specimen having been unfortunately stained with eosin instead of carmine .
Figure 2 .
Fragment of the supporting lamella , obtained by teasing , ( osmic acid\#151 ; weak glycerine ) .
The wavy character of many of the adhering muscular processes is well seen .
Figure 3 .
Longitudinal section of the body , distal end , ( osmic acid\#151 ; weak glycerine ) , showing particularly the flagella of the endoderm cells .
The boundaries of the ectoderm cells are not seen .
Figure 4 .
Transverse section of the body , proximal end , ( picric acid\#151 ; alcohol\#151 ; 1 carmine ) , showing the pseudopodia of the endoderm cells and the included food particles , as also the absence of interstitial tissue and of nematocysts in this region .
Figure 5 .
Longitudinal section of a tentacle , ( picric acid\#151 ; alcohol\#151 ; carmine ) .
In this section , selected as showing the food particles in the protoplasm of the endoderm cells , no nematocysts , nor palpocils are to be seen .
Figure 6 .
Longitudinal section of the body , distal end , to show the typical structure of the body wall .
Figures 1\#151 ; -5 are accurately drawn , each from a single specimen , except for the fact that the diatom d , in fig. 1 , has been inserted from a similar , but otherwise less favourable specimen .
Fig. 6 is a combination of several preparations , being the correct proportions retained .
All the figures were drawn with a Ghmdlach 's -^th immersion ( for the use of which I am indebted to Professor Huxley ) on Hartnack 's small stand , and with his No. 3 eye-piece .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 8 , 1880 .
Fxq .
0 , Fi g .
4h .
T.J.P. oUVr Proc. Rcy .
Soz .
Vol.30.Pl.1 .
\gt ; Fig .
3 .
ScsoCLep ___i__ 50.Tn^.-vr^ .
i_________i Fig .
S .
rte Wes6 , Tv/ ev/ m\lt ; xn \amp ; .
Go .
Ixth , .

