I. The reading of Dr. FARADAY'S paper , " Experimental Researches in Electricity-Thirtieth Series , " was resumed and concluded .
The following is an abstract:* ยง 38 .
Constancy ofdifferential magnecrystallic force in different media.-That a magnecrystal formed into a sphere ( or some equivalent shape , so that mere length should have no influence ) sets with the same force in the magnetic field , whatever the magnetic nature of the medium around it , has been shown generally , and for a few cases , on former occasions .
The author was under the necessity of verifying and enlarging the old results ; and upon employing the following magnecrystals , namely bismuth , tourmaline , carbonate of iron , red ferroprussiate of potassa , and also compressed bismuth , surrounded in succession by the following media , -phosphorus , alcohol , oil , camphine , water , air , and saturated solution of protosulphate of iron , he found the result to be the same as before .
The mode of estimating the set was as follows:-The selected crystal being suspended in the magnetic field by a torsion-wire , right-handed force was then slowly applied by the revolutions of the torsion-head above , until the crystal being gradually carried round , attained that position at which any additional torsion-force would cause it to advance suddenly and considerably ; this position was called the upsetting point ; then left-handed torsion was put on until the like point was attained in the opposite side : the amount of the revolution of the torsion-index from one upsetting point to the other , minus the angle between the upsetting points , was considered as the measure of the set of the crystal under the constant magnetic force employed .
As the setting force of a crystal remained constant for any surrounding medium , it was evidently possible to select a crystal and a medium such , that in one position the crystal would be attracted , and in another , at right angles to the first , be repelled in the same medium .
This case was realized with the paramagnetic red ferroprussiate of potassa and a solution of sulphate of iron , and also with the diamagnetic crystal carbonate of lime and diluted alcohol .
A crystal was sought for amongst the ferrocarbonates of lime having this relation to the assumed natural zero presented by a vacuum or carbonic acid ; but this case was not realized .
ยง 39 .
Action of heat on magnecrystals.-When magnecrystals , subjected to the same constant magnetic force , were raised or lowered to different temperatures , it was found that the setting force was affected ; and at all temperatures from 0 ?
F. upwards the force diminished as the temperature became higher .
Thus the torsionforce of a crystal of bismuth at 92 ?
being 175 , was at 279 ?
diminished to 82 ; that of a tourmaline , by passing from the temperature of 79 ?
to 289 ?
, was so far diminished ; that the power at the lower temperature was nearly double that at the higher .
A like result occurred with carbonate of iron , and also with compressed bismuth .
In all these cases the bodies resumed their first full power on returning to lower temperatures , nor was there any appearance of magnetic charge in any part of the range of observa3A tions .
Between 32 ?
and 300 ?
the force of bismuth appeared to alter by regular equal degrees ; but with tourmaline and carbonate of iron the change was greatest for an equal number of degrees at the lower temperatures .
At a full red heat , however , both tourmaline and calcareous spar retained a portion of their magnecrystallic force or condition , and so did carbonate of iron up to that temperature at which it was decomposed .
It is known that pure calcareous spar points with its optic axis equatorially , but that calcareous spar containing a trace of iron points with its optic axis axially .
Calcareous spar retains its magnetic characters at very high temperatures , but carbonate of iron and oxide of iron lose almost the whole of their magnetic force at a dull red heat .
It was therefore expected that a ferrocarbonate of lime crystal might become absolutely reversed in condition by change of temperature , and this was found to be the case : at low temperatures the optic axis pointed axially , and at high temperatures equatorially ; and that through any number of changes , as the temperature of the crystal was alternately lowered and raised .
ยง 40 .
Effect of heat upon the absolute magnetic force of bodies .
Results were sought for , by which the magnetic force of bodies , already examined in the condition of magnecrystals , might be compared with the whole paramagnetic or diamagnetic force of the same bodies taken in the granular or amorphous state ; but they were not satisfactory .
The carbonate of iron gave the most distinct results ; and in its case the change of power by change of temperature was not the same for the two conditions .
An examination of the three metals , iron , nickel , and cobalt , at temperatures between 0 ?
and 300 ?
F. , gave a very interesting result , which the author is not aware has as yet been noticed .
As the temperature rises , the force of the nickel diminishes , the force of the iron remains constant , the force of the cobalt increases ; these facts suggest that there is a temperature at which the magnetic force is a maximum , and above or below which it diminishes .
The order with the three bodies accords perfectly with that in which they lose the chief amount of their magnetic power , for much loss occurs with nickel at the temperature of boiling oil , with iron at a dull red heat , and with cobalt at a temperature6 near that of melting copper .

