The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" On the supposed developement of the Animal Tissues from Cells .
" By James Stark , M.D. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by James F. W. Johnston , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. The author controverts the prevailing theory of the developement of animal tissues from cells , and denics the accuracy of the microscopieal observations on which that theory is founded , as regards the anatomy of the adult as well as of the foetal tissues .
He asscrts that at no period of foetal life can rows of cells be discovered in the act of transformation into muscular fibres : and he denies that these fibres increase either in length or in thickness by the deposition of new cells .
He contends that the ultimate filaments of muscles , as well as all the other tissues of the body , are formed from the fibrinous portion of the blood , which is itself composed of globules that are disposed to cohcre together , either in a linear series , so as to form a net-work of fine filaments , or in aggregated masses of a form more or less globular , composing what have been termed fibrinous corpuscles .
These corpuscles have been considered to be the nuclei of cells ; but the author regards them as being merely accidental fragments of broken down tissues , adhcring to the filaments , and noways conccrned in their developement .
The more regularly dis ?
posed granules , which are observed to occupy the spaces intervening between the filaments composing the ordinary cellular tissue , he considers as being fatty matter deposited within these spaces .
IIc , in like manner , regards the observations tending to show the cellular origin of the fibrous , cartilaginous , and osscous tissues , as altogether fallacious ; and maintains that the cells , which these animal tcxtures exhibit when viewed under the microscope , are simply spaces occur ?
ring in the more solid substance of these structures , like the cavities which exist in bread .
These views are pursued by the author in discussing the formation of the skin , the blood-vessels , and the nerves , and in controverting the theory of secretion , founded on the action of the interior surfaces of the membranes constitutin"* cells .

