2 .
" On the Nervous System of the Sphinx ligustri ( Linn. ) during the latter Stages of its Pupa and its Imago States ; andon the Means by which its Development is effected .
" By George Newport , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. In a paper formerly read to the Royal Society , and printed in the Philosophical Transactions , the author has given a description of the anatomy of the nervous system of the Sphinx ligustri in its larva , and the earlier periods of its pupa , state ; and he has since prosecuted the inquiry then commenced , following the changes of structure through the remaining stages , until the insect has arrived at its full develop ?
meant .
He enters into minute details of all these changes , which vary considerably in the rapidity with which they take place at different periods , according as the vital powers are called into action by external circumstances , or become exhausted by their efforts at effecting the growth or modifying the form of different parts .
Thus the ganglia and nervous cords undergo great changes both in their form and situation , and also in their number , during the passage of the insect from the larva to the pupa state ; and after these changes have been carried to a certain extent , they are suspended for several weeks , during which the insect remains in a state of hybernation ; but at the expiration of this period the changes again proceed , and are continued uninterruptedly , till the insect attains its ultimate or perfect stage of development .
The Sphinx ligustri remains in the pupa state during at least forty-two or forty-three weeks ; thus affording ample opportunities of examining the whole progress of the changes which take place in the structure of different parts .
The concentration of the nervous system , which was commenced in the larva , proceeds to a much greater extent while the insect is enclosed in the pupa , and is continued for a short time after it has assumed the imago state .
The double origin and connexions of the nerves distributed to the wings are described , and a conjecture offered as to the object of this are ?
rangement , which appears designed to establish a harmony of action between the wings , in those insects , especially , which are remarkable for velocity and power of flight ; a different disposition being adopted in those which fly with less regularity or speed .
The nerves of the organs of sense , as the antennse , eyes , proboscis , and apparatus for manducation , are traced and minutely described , and a comparison instituted between them and the nerves which have similar offtces in vertebrated animals .
The author traces the origin and course of the nerve corresponding to the pneumo-gastric , or par vagum , and shows that it is distributed chiefly to the organs of digestion and the respi ?
ratory passages .
He next describes the anterior lateral cephalic ganglia , which , from their position , might be regarded as auxiliary brains .
The situation and course of another nervous tract , which from its extensive connexions and peculiar mode of distribution is considered as corresponding to the sympathetic system , are also traced .
The author notices a set of nerves which , adopting the views of Sir Charles Bell , he considers as analogous to those which the lat ?
ter has denominated the respiratory nerves of vertebrated animals ; and among a great number of interesting observations , of which it is impossible to give any abridged account , one of the most remarkable is the discovery that the primary longitudinal nervous cords of in ?
sects consist of two tracts , the one situated over the other , corresponding to the two columns of which the spinal cord consists in ver ?
tebrated animals ; the one appropriated to sensation , and the other to voluntary motion ; the nerves from each of these tracts being variously combined , according to the purposes they are designed to fulfil .
This important distinction , which was first traced in the nervous cords of the Lobster , was afterwards distinctly observed by him in the Scorpion and the Scolopendra , and lastly , in several species of insects , as the Gryllus viridissimus , the Carabus , the Papilio urlica , and the Sphinx ligustri .
Numerous drawings of the parts described accompany the paper .

