An Anatomical Description of a male Rhinoceros .
By Mr. H. Leigh Thomas , Surgeon .
Communicated by George Fordyce , M.D. F.R.S. Read January 29 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 145 .
] An opportunity having lately offered of examining a living rhinoceros , and of dissecting it after death , Mr. Thomas availed himself of the favourable incident ; and in this paper affords us all the information he could gather concerning that curious animal .
Dr. James Parsons having , upwards of fifty years ago , laid before the Society some account of the external parts of a rhinoceros , a recapitulation is here given of what is contained in that paper ; but on the other hand , the description of the internal parts , and of some of the organs , is the more ample , and , together with some observations on its habits , will probably prove equally satisfactory to the anatomist and the physiologist .
Without entering into the technical part of this description , we shall only notice here certain peculiarities concerning the eye , in which a structure has been observed , of which no other animal is as yet known to partake .
In cutting through the eye , four processes were met with , arising by distinct tendons from the internal or posterior portion of the sclerotic , which , passing forward , gradually became broader , and insensibly lost themselves in and formed a part of the choroid .
These processes had a muscular appearance .
The ciliary processes were affixed to the crystalline lens , which was nearly spherical , with the anterior surface somewhat flattened .
Concerning the use of this structure , especially of the processes , the author observes , that as the natural unwieldiness of this animal probably unfits it for quickly directing its sight to objects which for its own preservation it ought to be able to examine easily and minutely , nature seems to have supplied it with an apparatus calculated to remedy this imperfection .
The change in the eye , which adapts it for distinct vision at different distances , the author ascribes in a great measure to the four above-mentioned processes , which upon contracting will shorten the axis of the eye , and produce the desired effect : for near objects , it is observed that this animal has the eyes placed much nearer the mouth than any other , whence , without any adaptation of the eye , it is capable of performing the most essential of its functions , viz. that of examining the food necessary for its subsistence .

