]\gt ; Prof. G. Forbes .
Exterior istics .
[ Dec. lff , The human brain shows signs of having expanded more decisively in some parts than in others , yet that expansion , if we except the visual and olfactory areas , has been general in kind .
By super-imposing on our cerebral plans drawn from naked-eys inspection others giving the results of histological examination , this a preliminary to the fmal localisation of function by the physiologist nd workers in other departments , all existing doubt on various homologies may be removed .
: ' Exterior Ballistics.\mdash ; ' Error of the Day , ' and other Corrections to Naval -tables.\ldquo ; By Professor FORBES , Received December 19 , 1904 , \mdash ; Read January 26 , 1905 .
One of the most common problems that meet artillerists is that of for retardation caused by air-resistance , this being proportional to the air-density .
The published bles , as caIculated for ally type of gun given weighb and form of shot , and given harge of powder , are based on trials with different elevations when the and time of flight are measured directly .
The -tables calculated from the experiments by making corrections for velocity and for air density .
The problem now before us is to find a simple rule for deduc.ing from the published range-table another range-table with a different air-density .
Abscissae represent ranges .
Ordinntes represent elevations .
range table elevations at normal air density .
QQQk OP , with air density increased } The solution of this problem , for flat jectories at least , .
is extremely neat when stated geometrically .
Draw a in lvh]ch abscissae are ranges and ordinates are the elevations of the range-tnbla 1904 .
] -tables .
393 To draw a similar curve for -density increased in the ratio / : 1 proceed as follows :From the origin of co-ordinates draw straighl lines to points , etc. , on the range-table curve .
In these lines take points , etc. , so that .
Then the locus of is the new curve .
Stated verbally the rule make a range-table for per cent. increase of air-density ( or per cent. iucrease of to diameter and weight of shot ) , diminish each elevation and corresponding range by per cent. The elevations thus found correct for the ranges thus foUlld with the new air-density .
The time of flight is diminished per cent. The remaining velocity in the range-table is the same for the new range-table at the altered Adopting the usual tion for exterior X is the range in feet ; ; the muzzle velocity .
weight of projectile ; diameter of projectile .
a constant depending on form of shot -density .
-elocity .
velocity at the vertex of trajectory .
time of flight ; elevation .
Certain functions of have been calcudated ) nlated .
These , , and the ving are three ) equations:\mdash ; X ( 1 ) .
From this we find from the bless ; ( 2 ) .
Taking , and , from the , we know Now it is always assumed that elevatiollS up to the vertex of trajectory is reached in of the time of flight .
Hence ' whence we find from the tables , which also give us when values and in the third equation ( 3 ) .
If the air-density be now increased in the ratio to 1 , use letters ccents for the llew conditions , Let us find the elevation range X ' where X ' .
Thell 94 Prof. .
Forbes .
Exterior Balliii .
[ Dec. Thus in ( 1 ) , and V is unchanged .
Therefore unchanged , or .
And in ( 2 ) .
or Also is found from the equation .
Therefore Again , in It appears then that if the air-density be increased -fold and the range dimimshed m-fold , the elevation and time of flight must be diminished -fold , but the remaining velocity is the same .
The above is founded on Niven 's formulae , but those of Siacci and Mayevski lead to the same result .
Another important correction is that of muzzle velocity , which depends upon age of gun and on temperature and nature of explosive .
If there were no air-resistance the ordinary formulae tell us that tho elevation for any range varies inversely as the square of the muzzle velocity .
I find empirically , by comparison of range-tables based on experiments with different muzzle velocities , that the same law holds over a very considerable range of muzzle velocities up to elevations of at least .
This has been tested with the Naval guns of inch , 12 inch , inch , and 6 inch diameters .
We can now subject these two laws ( air-resistance and muzzle velocity ) to a very severe test .
Take the Naval range-table for 12-inch B.L. Gun , Mark IX , with an .
shot and muzzle velocity 2433 feet per second and from it calculate ( by the two laws above ) a range-table for the 6-inch Q.F. gun , Marks III , IV , and , with a .
shot and muzzle velocity 1960 feet per second .
To do this , note that the ratio of is Hence we must multiply the ranges and elevations of the 12-inch gun by .
We must further multiply the new elevations by the ratio of the squares of muzzle velocities .
The following table shows the results , and comparison with the data for the 6-inch gun from the Addenda to Naval Range-Tables , and the ences : 1904 Corrections to fVaval R It need hardly be said that the agreement is sufficient for all practical purposes .
An additional fact , of considerable practical , is that there is a very simple approximation to the true correction for elevation due to air-density , obtained by taking it as being a constant multiplied by the product of elevation and range , and percentage variation from the normal air-density .
The constant varies } the type of gun and with full , or half , charge but remains the same for all ranges .
Thus with the 6-inch guIl , Mark , the correction at full charge is , and at half oharge it is range elevation .
Curiously enough the same formula , with a different constant , gives the correction , at all ranges , to the tion , due to rate of change of distance during the time of flight of the shot .
These empirical laws , combined the muzzle velocity law already mentioned , have led to the design of a most simple arrangement of gun-sights corrected for the individual error of the gun due to wear , and for the error of the day due to temperatures of cordite and of the air , and to barometric pressure , which can be worked by the act of using ths range-finder , and automatically corrects for time of flight with changing range .

