IX .
On the Composition of Zeolite .
By James Smithson , Esq. F. R. S. Read February 7 , 18 1 .
MINERAL bodies being , in fact , native cheical p epactzion , perfectly analogous to those of the laboratory of art , it is only by chemical means , that their species can be ascertained wiitI any degree of certainty , especially under all the variations of mechanical state and intimate admixture with each other , to which they are subject .
And accordingly , we see those methods which profess to supersede the necessity of chemistry in mineralogy , and to decide upon the species of it by other means than her 's , yet bringing an unavoidable tribute of honmag to er superior powers , by tu ir ng to her or a solution of the difficulties which continually arise to them , and to obtain firm grounds to relinquish or adopt the conclusions to which the principles they employ , lead them .
Zeolite and natrolite have been universally admitted to .
be species distinct from each other , from Mr. KLAPROTH having discovered a considerable quantity of soda and no lime , in the composition of the latter , while Mr. VAUQUELIN had not foundL any portion of either of the fixed alkalies , but a considerable one of lime , in his analysis of zeolite.* The natrolite has been lately met with unader a regular Journ al des Mines , No. XLIV , crystalline form , and this form appears to be perfectly similar to that of zeolite , but Mr. HAUY has not judged himself warranted by this circumstance , to consider these two bodies as of the same species , because zeolite , he says , " does not contain an atom of soda .
" *I had many years ago found soda in what I considered to be zeolites , which I had collected in the island of Staffa , having formed GLAUBER'S salt by treating them with sulphuric acid ; and I have since repeatedly ascertained the presence of the same principle in similar stones from various other places ; and Dr. HUTTON and Dr. KENNEDY , had likewise detected soda in bodies , to which they gave the name of zeolite .
There was , however , no certainty that the subjects of any of these experiments were of the same nature as what Mr. VAUQUELTN had examined , were of that species which Mr. HAUY calls mesotype .
Mr. I-IhUY was so obliging as to send me lately , some speciimcns of n.inerals .
There happened to be amongst them a cluster of zeolite in rectangular tetrahedrai prisms , terminated by obtuse tetrahedral pyramids whose faces coincided with those of the prism .
These crystals were of a considerable size , and perfectly homogeneous , and labelled by himself I"e , esotLvpe pyramidie diu depart .
du Piy de Ddome .
" I availed myself of this very favourable opportunity , to ascertain whether the mesotype of Mr. HAiiY and natroiite , did or did not diff-er in their composition , and the resuits of the experimen , ts have been -entirely unfavourable to their separation , as the following account of them wil sihow .
xo grains of this zeolie being kept red ot for five minutes lost o.75 grains , and became opaque and friable .
In a second experiment , to grains being exposed for io m0inutes to a stronger fire , lost 0.95 grains , and consolidated into a hard trainsparsent state .
o1 grains of this zeolite , which had not been heated , were reduced to a fine powder , and diluted muriatic acid poured upon it .
On standing some hours , without any application of heat , the zeolite entirely dissolved , and some hours after , the solution became a jelly : this jelly was evaporated to a dry state , and then made red hot .
Water was repeatedly poured on to this ignited matter till nothing more could b &amp; extracted from it .
This solution was gently evaporated to a dry state , and this residuum made slightly red hot .
It then weighed 3.15 grains .
It was muriala of soda .
The solution of this muriate of soda being tried with solutions of carbonate of ammonia and oxalic acid , did not afford the least precipitate , which would have happened had the zeolite contained any line , as the tmuriate of lime * would not have been decomposed by the ignition .
The remaining matter , from wnhic this muriate of soda had been extracted , was repeatedly diCested with marine acid , till all that was soluble was dissolved .
What remained was silica , and , after being made red hot , weighed 4.9 grains .
The imuriatic solution , which had been decanted off from the silica , was exhaled to a dry state , and the matter left made red hot .
It as alumina .
To discover whether any magnesia was contained amongst this alumina , it was dissolved in sulphuric acid , the solution evaporated to a dry state , and ignited .
Water did extract some saline matter from this ignited alumina , but it had not at all the appearance of sulpIhate of magnesia , and proved to be some sulphate of alumina which had escaped decomposition , for on an addttion of sulphate of ammonia to it , it produced cyStals of co mpound sulhate of alumina and ammonia , in regular octahedrons .
'This- , m lu , nad aluaiina were again mixed and digested in ama on ia , athe t whole dtied and made red hot .
The alumina left , weigaed 3.1 grains .
B1eing su asected to contain still some sulpiuric acid , this alumina xwas aissolved in nitric acid , and an excess of acetate of barytes added .
A precipitate of sulphate of barytes fell , which after being edutcorated and mae red hot , veighed 1.o grains .
If we admit of sulphate of barytes to be sulphuric acid , the quantity of the alumina will be 3.1-o.4 =.7 grains .
From the experiments of Dr. MARc ET , * it apears that 3.15 grains of muriate of soda , afford 1.7 gras of Hence , according to the foregoing experinents , the 1o grains of zeolite analysed , consisted of Silica 90 Alumina.70 Soda.70 Ice.95 lo.~5~t As these experiments had been undertaken more for the purpose of ascertaining the nature of the component parts of this zeolite than their proportions , the object of them was considered as accomplished , although perfect accuracy in the latter respect , had not been attained , and which , indeed , the analysis we possess of natrolite by the illustrious chemist of Berlin , renders unnecessary .
I am induced to prefer the name of zeolite for this species of stone , to any other name , from an unwillingness to obliterate entirely from the nomenclature of mineralogy , while arbitrary names are retained in it , all trace of one of the discoveries of the greatest mineralogist who has yet appeared , ; and which , at the time it was made , was considered as .
and was , a very considerable one , being the first addition of an earthy species , made by scientific means , to tho:le estaboii ; head immemorially by miners and lapidaries , and ience havlg ' with tungstein and nickel , led the wa to the great and b liant extension which mineralogy has csnce recei vd .
And , of the several substances , whicai , fom the state of science in his time , certain comon ouales nded Bn CRNSTED to associate together under the na , .
e of zcoltie ; it Is this which has been most immedWately un rs'ood as such , and whose qualities have been assum-d as the characterstic ones of the spees .
Indeed , I thinuk that the na me imposed on a substane by the discoverer of it , ought to be held in some degree sacred , and not altered without the most urgent necessity for doing it .
It is but a eeble ad just relribution of respect for the service which he has rendered to scence .
Profssor STRav , of Lausanne , who skill i1 mineralogy ZaI 7t5 is well known , having mentioned to me , in one of his letters , that from some experiments of his own , he was led to suspect the existence of phosphoric acid in several stones , and particularly in the zeolite of Auvergne , I have directed my enquiries to this point , but have not found the phosphoric , or any other acknowledged mineral acid , in this zeolite .
Many persons , from experiencing much difficulty in comprehending the combination together of the earths , have been led to suppose the existence of undiscovered acids in stony crystals .
If quartz be itself considered as an acid , to which order of bodies its qualities much more nearly assimilate it , than to the earths , their composition becomes readily intelligible .
They will then be neutral salts , silicates , either simple or compound .
Zeolite will be a compound salt , a hydrated silicate of alumina and soda , and hence a compound of alumina not very dissimilar to alum .
And topaz , whose singular ingredients , discovered by Mr. KLAPROTH , have called forth a query from the celebrated Mr. VAUQUELIN , with regard to the mode of their existence together , * will be likewise a compound salt , consisting of silicate of alumina , and fluate of alumina .
Our acquaintance with the composition of the several mineral substances , is yet far too inaccurate to render it possible to point out with any degree of certainty , the one of which zeoliteis an hydrate , however the agreement of the two substances in the nature of their constituent parts , and in their being both electrical by heat , directs conjecture towards tourmaline .
St. 7ames 's Place , Jan. zz , i8 x. Addition to the Account of native Minium .
After I had commutnicated to the President , the account of the discovery of native minium , printed in the Plhilosophical Transactions for 18o6 , I learned that this ore came f omi th e lead mines of Breylau in Westphalia ,

