" Geometrical investigations concerning the Phenomenon of Ter ?
restrial Magnetism : Second Series , ?
On the number of points at which a magnetic needle can take a position vertical to the Earth 's surface .
" By Thomas Stephens Davies , Esq. , F.R.S. Lond. and Edin .
, F.R.A.S. , of the Royal Military Academy , Woolwich .
This paper is intended as a continuation of the one by the same author published in the last volume of the Philosophical Transactions ; in which it was proposed to investigate the mathematical consequences of the hypothesis of the earth being a magnet with two poles , or centres of force , situated anywhere either within , or at the surface , and of equal intensity , but of contrary characters : with the ultimate viewof verifying this hypothesis by comparing its results , so deduced , with the phenomenon furnished by observation .
In his former paper the author had shown that on this hypothesis the magnetic equator , or the locus of the points at which the magnetic needle takes a horizontal position , is one single and continuous line on the surface of the earth .
In this paper his object is to prove that there are always two , and never more than two , points at the earth 's surface , at which the needle takes a position vertical to the horizon .
At the close of his former paper the author had deduced the equation of the curve of verticity , that is , of the curve at any point of which an infinitesimal needle being placed , it will always tend towards the centre of the earth , and consequently be vertical to the horizon at its point of intersection with the surface of the earth : but , owing to circumstances over which he had no control , he was unable , at that time , to write out an account of his investigations of the peculiar character of that curve , or to apply its properties to the determination of the latter problem : and these are more especially the objects to which the present paper is devoted .
The processes to which he has had recourse , with this view , are the following .
He first transposes the rectangular equation of the curve into a polar equation , and finds that in the result the radius vector is involved only in the second degree ; and hence that for every value of the polar angle there are two values of the radius vector , and never more than two j or , in other words , that no line drawn from the centre of the earth can cut the curve of verticity in more than two points .
But as no means present themselves of as ?
certaining whether the values of ( r ) , the polar ordinates of the curve of contact , be always real or not , or how many values of ( 0 , ) , the other co-ordinate to that curve , are possible for any given value of r ; he abandons this method of inquiry , contenting himself with a few deductions respecting the general form of thelocus , and proceeds to employ a different method .
The general system of his reasonings proceeds on the principle that as the magnetic curve itself , and the curve of verticity have one common and dependent genesis , a knowledge of the properties of the former must throw considerable light on those of the latter j and he is accordingly induced to enter into a more minute examination of the magnetic curve than had before been attempted .
As both the polar and the rectangular equations of this curve are much too complex to afford any hope of success in their investigation , the author has recourse to a system of co-ordinates , which he terms the " angular system , * ' and which was suggested to him originally by the form under which Professor Playfair exhibited this equation in Robison 's Mechanical Philosophy .
But as he has not yet published his investigations of the differential coefflcients , and other formulae necessary in the application of this system , he puts his results in a form adapted to rectangular co-ordinates j each rectangular coordinate being expressed in terms of his angular co-ordinates and the constants of the given equation ; and by these means deduces the characters of the magnetic curve throughout its whole course .
The angular equation being cos 0 , X cos Qit =2 cos / 3 , he finds , 1 ?
, that the two equations , the convergent and the divergent , or that in which the poles are unlike , and that in which they are like , are both expressed by this equation , and essentially included in it : c2 ?
&gt; that the divergent branches on one side of the magnetic axis are algebraically and geometrically continuous with the con ?
vergent branches on the other side ; the parameter ( / 5 ) being the same in both cases : 3 ?
, that the divergent branches are assymptotic , and the assymptote is capable of a very simple construction ; 4 ?
, that the continuous branches have the poles as points of inflexion , and that these are the only points of inflexion within finite limits : 5 ?
, that a tangent at any point of the curve , or , which is the same thing , the direction taken by a small needle placed there , admits of easy construction : 6 ?
, that when the parameter ( / 3 ) is such as to cause the convergent and divergent branches to intersect , they do so in a perpendicular to the magnetic axis drawn from the poles : 7 ?
, that the convergent branches are always concave , and the divergent always convex , to a line at right angles to the magnet , drawn from its middle , ?
besides other properties not less interesting , though less capable of succinct enunciation .
Having separated the branches belonging to the case of like poles from those belonging to the unlike ones in the magnetic curve , the author proceeds toa similar separation of the corresponding branches in the curve of verticity .
In the former case the curve is composed of four branches infinite in length , having the magnetic axis for assymptotes , lying above that axis , and emanating from the poles to the right and left ; and of two finite branches , continuous with those just described , and lying below the magnetic axis ; one of which passes through the centre of the earth , and meets the other in the perpendicular from the middle of the axis ; so that the whole system is constituted by one continuous curve , extending from negative infinite to positive infinite , and having the lines drawn from the centre of the earth to the magnetic poles as tangents at the poles ; and no part of the curve lies between these tangents .
It bears in form some general resemblance to a distorted conchoid 5 this curve not having either cusp or loop .
In the second case , the curve is also composed of four branches , two finite and two infinite ones ; the latter having the line drawn from the centre of the earth through the middle of the magnet as assymptotes , and both lying on the same side of it as the more distant pole ; and the finite branches joining these continuously at the poles , and each other in the mid ?
dle of the magnetic axis ; the one from the nearer pole lying above the axis , and the one from the remoter pole lying below it .
The branches , where they unite at the poles , have the lines drawn from the centre of the earth to the poles as tangents , and the lower in ?
finite branch passes through the centre .
The whole system of branches is comprised between the polar tangents ; and the two systems are mutually tangential at the poles , and intersect each other at the centre ; but they have no other point in common .
Lastly , the author proceeds to demonstrate that a circle ( namely , the magnetic meridian ) described from the centre of the curve of verticity , will always cut the convergent system in two points , but can never cut it in more than two .
He remarks , however , that if we could conceive two poles of like kinds to exist without any other whatsoever , we might have either four points of verticity , or only two , according to circumstances ; but he waves the discussion of this particular case , as being irrelevant to the purpose of his present inquiry .
Mr. Davies announces his intention of shortly laying before the

