A paper was read , entitled " Experimental Inquiry into the cause of the Ascent and Continued Motion of the Sap ; with a new method of preparing plants for physiological investigations .
" By George Rainey , Esq. , M.R.C.S. , Communicated by P. M. Rocet , M.D. , F.R.S. " b The ascent of the sap in vegetables has been generally ascribed to a vital contraction either of the vessels or of the cells of the plant : the circumstances of that ascent taking place chiefly at certain sea ?
sons of the year , and of the quantity of iiuid , and the velocity of its motion being proportional to the development of those parts whose functions are obviously vital , as the leaves and flowers , have been regarded as conclusive against the truth of all theories which professed to explain the phenomenon on purely mechanical principles .
The aim of the author , in the present paper , is to show that these objections are not valid , and to prove , by a series of experiments , that the motion of the sap is totally independent of any vital con ?
tractions of the passages which transmit it ; that it is wholly a mecha ?
nical process , resulting entirely from the operation of endosmose ; and that it takes plaee even through those parts of a plant which have been totally deprived of their vitality .
The lower extremity of a branch of Valeriana rubra was placed , soon after being gathered , into a solution of bichloride of mercury .
In a few hours a considerable quantity of this solution was absorbed , and the whole plant , which had been previously somewhat shrunk from the evaporation of its moisture , recovered its healthy appearance .
On the next day , although the lower portion of the branch had lost its vitality , the leaves and all the parts of the plant into which no bichloride had entered , but only the water of the solution , were perfectly healthy and filled with sap .
On each of the following days additional portions of the stem became affected in succession ; but the unaffected parts still preserved their healthy appearance , and the flowers and leaves developed themselves as if the plant had vegetated in pure water and the whole stem had been in its natural healthy state .
On a minute examination it was found that calome ) , in the form of a white substance , had been deposited on the internal surface of the cuticle ; but no bichloride of mercury could be de ?
tected in those parts which had retained their vitality ; thus showing that the solution of the bichloride had been decomposed into chlo ?
rine , calomel , and water , and had destroyed the vitality of the parts where this action had taken place ; after which , fresh portions of the solution had passed through the substance of the poisoned parts , as if they had been inorganic canals .
Various experiments of a similar kind were made on other plants , and the same conclusions were deduced from them .
As the addition of a solution of iodide of potassium converts the bichloride of mercury into an insoluble biniodide , the author was cnabled , by the application of this test to thin sections of the stems of plants into which the bichloride had been received by absorption , to ascertain , with the aid of the microscope , the particular portion of the structure into which the latter had penetrated .
The result of his observations was , that the biniodide is found only in the intercellular and intervascular spaces , none appearing to be contained within the cavities of either cells or vessels .
As the fluids contained in the vessels and in the cells hold in so ?
lution various vegetable compounds , their density is greater than the ascending sap , which is external to them , and from which they are separated by an intervening organized membrane .
Such being the conditions requisite for the operation of the principle of endos ?
mose , the author infers that such a principle is constantly in action in living plants ; and that it is the cause of the continual transmis ?
sion of fluids from the intervascular and intercellular spaces into the interior of the vessels and cells , and also of the ascent of the sap .

