1912 .
] On the Extrusion of Granules hy Trypanosomes .
389 No. II .
November 5.\#151 ; Gerbil ( F. 11 ) injected with blood ( 0*2 c.c. ) obtained as above , but after two hours ' standing no trypanosome could be seen , only round forms and free granules .
November 12.\#151 ; Trypanosomes first found in blood .
November 14.\#151 ; Trypanosomes very numerous .
November 15.\#151 ; Gerbil found dead ; spleen very large .
The average time of infection in gerbils is four to six days after ordinary inoculation .
Similar results were also obtained with dogs .
These experiments are , of course , not absolutely conclusive , but so far as could be ascertained microscopically the granules were the only discernible remnants of the trypanosomes which retained their characteristic form .
Further experiments were also made to trace if possible the fate of granules so injected into animals .
Inoculations were made with solutions containing large number of free granules , and the animals were killed before trypanosomes could be found in the blood .
Granules and the later forms in various stages of development were found in the proximal glands , also in the internal organs .
Note on a New Method of Blood Fixation .
By H. G. Plimmer , F.Pt .
S. During some years of work on the blood of animals , many methods of fixation have been tried , principally with the view of obtaining a better fixation of blood parasites .
The method described below has fulfilled this object better than any other , and is more faithful than even osmic acid .
The use of iodine for the fixation of unicellular organisms dates from the work of Kent in 1881 on the Infusoria , but the application of it to blood is , so far as I know , new .
I have used iodine in two forms , in vapour and in solution , and each has its special advantages .
When a blood-film is exposed wet to the vapour from a solution of iodine in chloroform , the fixation of the various elements is practically instantaneous , as the penetrative power of iodine in this form is greater than that of any other fixative known to me ; there is less alteration both in form and size of the cellular elements and parasites than with any other fixative .
When used in solution several things happen which are of value in enabling very fine structures to be more easily made out .
If blood be mixed with a solution of iodine in salt solution containing iodide of potassium , certain elements and parasites , especially trypanosomes , swell up so that the finer parts of their structure , for instance the nucleus and blepharoplast , are much clearer and more definite than with the ordinary 390 Major W. B. Fry and Captain H. S. Ranken .
[ Dec. 23 , methods .
The nucleus shows as clearly as , if not clearer than , when Flemming 's solution and iron-hsematoxylin have been used .
There is the clear space containing the karyosome , and surrounding this , in many cases , are seen a number of granules , some of which can be seen budding off .
The blepharoplast is clearly seen as a structure quite distinct from the micronucleus , and the earlier stages of division of a trypanosome , i.e. the division of the blepharoplast and the formation of a second undulating membrane extending down the body of the trypanosome and forming eventually a second flagellum , can be seen and followed easier than with any other mode of fixation .
For the smaller forms found in spleen , glands , and marrow of animals with chronic trypanosomiasis , this method , by causing swelling of the elements , renders the very small forms distinct , and renders their nuclear structures much more visible .
Both these methods are also the best I have found for avian and reptilian blood containing parasites , e.g. filaria , malaria , hoemogregarines , etc. The steps of the two methods are here detailed .
Either slides or cover-glasses can be used , but in all blood-work the best results are obtained with cover-glasses .
After the Giemsa or fuchsin staining the definition is greatly increased by the use of a green monochromatic screen , such as Wratten s No. 19 , which shows the picture in blacks and greys .
I. Vapour Method .
1 .
Expose the thinnest possible film whilst wet to the vapour of a solution of iodine in chloroform for 10-15 seconds until it is distinctly yellowish .
A hollowed glass block does for cover-glasses , and a glass cylinder of suitable height , with the iodine and chloroform in a small vessel at the bottom , does for the slides .
In cold places the vessel should be warmed in order to get the vapour given off freely .
2 .
Place the film when it has become just surface dry ( a dead , mat surface , not really dry ) in chloroform , or in alcohol and ether , equal parts , for two hours .
I use chloroform for cover-glasses and alcohol-ether for the rougher slides .
3 .
There will now be no free iodine left in the film , and it can be stained in many ways .
I use the following :\#151 ; A. a. Drop 3-8 drops of Giemsa 's solution on the film , and immediately after double the number of drops of distilled water .
Leave for from 2 to 12 hours .
h. Wash well with tap-water .
c. Drop on 2-8 drops of orange-tannin solution and leave for 15 seconds .
d. Wash thoroughly with tap-water , up to two minutes .
e. Dry with filter-paper .
/ .
Mount in cedar oil or liquid paraffin .
B. a. Carbol-fuchsin for from 2 to 12 hours .
h. Wash in tap-water .
c. Alcohol until free from bulk of stain .
d. Differentiate in clove oil saturated with orange G. e. Stop when desired by washing in xylol .
/ .
Mount in cedar oil or liquid paraffin .
1912 .
] On the Extrusion of Granules Trypanosomes .
391 C. Iron-haematoxylin may be used in any of the ordinary ways .
Kernschwarz for 24 hours gives very delicate results .
II .
Solution Method .
1 .
Make a saturated solution of potassium iodide in O'B-per-cent .
salt solution and add iodine to saturation .
2 .
Mix 5-6 drops of this with 10 c.c. of salt solution .
3 .
Mix in a marked pipette equal parts of this and the blood to be examined .
In the case of organs small pieces may be crushed in an equivalent quantity of the iodine solution to form an emulsion .
4 .
Take large drops and make a thickish film .
Wait until the surface has begun to dry ( as in I ) , and place in alcohol and ether for two hours .
5 .
Continue as under 3 .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 9 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Series to illustrate mechanism of extrusion of granules in T. nanum ( see p. 380 ) .
" 2.\#151 ; Developmental forms of T. nanum , seen in bone-marrow ; the progressive tendency towards the characteristic shape of the adult trypanosome is shown .
Dark-ground illumination , Leitz ^ objective , N.A. 1.30 , compensating eyepiece .
x 8 . .
The earliest form , A , shows no evidence of a protoplasmic envelope and has the appearance of a well-developed granule just after extrusion .
In B the cytoplasm is clearly evident and the separation of the micronucleus has commenced .
C shows a well-developed form , of circular shape , with the nuclei shown at a distance from each other .
D , E , F , and G show the progressive increase of protoplasm , the last form being almost trypanosoma !
H is a young trypanosome , and I an older one in which a flagellum is evident .
These forms were all living when drawn .
Plates 10 and 11 .
All the figures are drawn under a Zeiss 3-mm .
apochromatic objective , N.A. 1.40 , with compensating ocular , x 12 .
Plate 10 .
Figs. 1-8.\#151 ; T. rhodesiense in rat 's blood , showing granules from their origin to extrusion .
Figs. 9-16.\#151 ; From blood and liver of rat infected with T. rhode\amp ; iense .
Figs. 17-22 , 24 , and 26.\#151 ; Are from the spleen of a guinea-pig infected with Nagana which lived three months , and showed no trypanosomes in the blood for some time before death .
Figs. 23 and 25.\#151 ; From a lymphatic gland of a cat infected with Nagana .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Four granules are seen in the trypanosome-body , and another is in an early stage of being budded off from the macronucleus at the right upper angle .
" 2.\#151 ; Two granules are seen coming off the macronucleus .
The one on the left is still attached and shows the elongated form .
Major W. B. Fry and Captain H. S. Ranken .
[ Dec. 23 , Fig. 3.\#151 ; A similar elongated granule is seen completely separated from the nucleus .
There is a faint indication of a halo surrounding it .
" 4.\#151 ; A large elongated granule is seen between the macro- and micronuclei , lying close to the periplast .
" 5.\#151 ; Several granules are present ; one is just being detached from the macronucleus .
" 6.\#151 ; Two granules are seen on the point of escaping from the trypanosome .
the larger looks as if it is nearly extruded .
" 7.\#151 ; A recently extruded granule is seen near the trypanosome .
The macronucleus shows two deeply stained points\#151 ; probably granules becoming differentiated in its substance before being budded off .
" 8.\#151 ; Two granules , lying between the macro- and micronuclei , are each seen to be surrounded by a well-defined clear hyaline area .
, Two others are almost completely separated from the macronucleus .
" 9.\#151 ; Free granule ; no differentiation .
" 10.\#151 ; Free granule , larger , and with a faint rim of cytoplasm .
" 11.\#151 ; Ring-shaped nucleus with micronucleus coming off ; definitely more protoplasm than the previous form .
" 12.\#151 ; Early form with macro- and micronucleus and pale blue-staining cytoplasm .
" 13.\#151 ; Similar form , larger .
' " 14.\#151 ; The nucleus has divided in this specimen , while there is only one micronucleus seen .
, , 15.\#151 ; Both macro- and micronuclei are divided .
, , 16.\#151 ; Micronuclei only have divided ; macronucleus in process of division .
" 17-26.\#151 ; All are similar forms .
They vary in shape and correspond closely with the forms seen by vital staining of emulsions of internal organs .
' , , 20 and 22.\#151 ; Show division of the micronuclei . .
" 21 and 22.\#151 ; Show the third chromatin body described .
" 25.\#151 ; Shows division of macro- and micronuclei .
, , 27.\#151 ; A single form , with macro- and micronucleus , and a very long flagellum .
Plate 11 .
Figs. 1-12.\#151 ; The specimens were found in smear preparations from the liver and kidney from rats infected with T. rhodesiense .
They show dividing forms in various stages .
Figs. 13-20.\#151 ; Blood from liver of rat infected with T. rhodesiense .
Immature trypanosomes are shown gradually merging into adult forms .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Early stage of division .
There are already two micronuclei , but the macro-nucleus is just beginning to divide .
" 2.\#151 ; This shows similar division to fig. 1 , but a little further advanced .
The macro- nucleus is now in the stage of mitosis .
, , 3.\#151 ; Complete separation of macro- and micronuclei , but the flagella are not yet separated .
" 4.\#151 ; Two form with nuclei and flagella completely divided ; one flagellum is much longer than the other and lies round the margin of the body .
" 5.\#151 ; Two form beginning to divide into two independent bodies which are identical with the early immature forms shown in figs. 13-15 .
" 6.\#151 ; Two form .
The nuclei have moved to some distance from each other .
A thick fan is seen in the shorter of the two flagella .
FRY \amp ; RA Roy .
Soc. Proc. Vol. 86 , PI .
9 .
Han he n Hoy .
Soe-.ProC ' .
H. i/ o L SG .
Hi 10 .
2 .
CD * .t* | | 7 .
* 9 .
o 3 , ' I 14 .
C **jr\gt ; .
18 .
19 .
20 . .
^ 22 .
* ?
23 .
O. 24 .
o / 26 .
o 27 .
.* 25 .
fry A R a cri Roy .
Soa .
Proo j3 l/ ol 86 .
PZ 11 .
1912 .
] On the Extrusion of Granules by Trypanosomes , 393 Fig. 7.\#151 ; Four form ( early ) , the macronuclei have evidently recently divided .
The two lower are moving away from each other ; the upper have not completely separated .
" 8.\#151 ; More advanced four form ; all the pairs of macro- and micronuclei have moved away from each other .
" 9.\#151 ; Eight form , a large body of cytoplasm whose margin shows a few indentations as if there might later be division of the whole mass at these situations .
All the macro- and micronuclei and flagella can be seen .
" 10.\#151 ; Eight form beginning apparently to divide ; the cytoplasm shows lines of cleavage along the lower part of the outline .
" 11.\#151 ; Mass of 16 bodies breaking up .
These resemble the Leishman-Donovan body ; each has a macro- and micronucleus , but no flagellum .
, , 12.\#151 ; A large form with single macronucleus and large micronucleus showing fanshaped origin to flagellum .
" 13.\#151 ; The body is rounded and has a clear blue-staining cytoplasm .
The flagellum shows the fan-shaped origin well and stands straight out from the body .
The micronucleus lies close to the macronucleus .
" 14 and 15.\#151 ; The body is longer , and the flagellum is lying along the margin ; the micronucleus is now moving away from the macronucleus .
" 16 , 17 , and 18.\#151 ; These features are more marked , and the specimens show gradual approximation to adult type .
The flagellum is seen to be separated at some point from the outline of the trypanosome body , the earliest stage in the development of an undulating membrane .
" 19.\#151 ; The undulating membrane is now clearly present , but the trypanosome can still be recognised as immature by the fan-shaped origin of the flagellum and the pale homogeneous cytoplasm .
" 20.\#151 ; An early adult trypanosome ; the flagellum no longer shows the fan-shaped origin , and is much longer .
Early granules can be seen in the cytoplasm .
VOL. LXXXVI.\#151 ; B.

