510 Dr. C. T. Williams .
On the Influence of certain Fluids " Observations on the Influence of certain Culture Fluids and Medicinal Reagents in the Growth and Development of the Bacillus tuberculosis .
" By C. Theodore Willfams , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Physician to the Hospital for Consumption , Brompton .
Communicated by Sir Joseph Fairer , K.C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1883 .
Read January 24 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the inquiry is to determine the conditions under which the Bacillus tuberculosis of Koch grows and multiplies , and to examine its behaviour under the influence of certain medicinal agents and reputed antiseptics .
The sputum of patients in advanced phthisis was used for experiment , on account of its abundance , the number of tubercle bacilli found in it , and its being easily preserved from decomposition when protected from the air .
It was spread on cover-glasses , due precautions being taken to ensure a uniform thickness of the film , and the staining process used was that known as the Weigert-Ehrlich modification of Koch 's original method .
Between 200 and 300 specimens were thus prepared and examined with a Zeiss microscope with Abbe ^condenser , under an F. objective ( =T\- immersion lens ) and No. 2 ocular , giving a magnifying power of 550 diameters , this being the field generally used for counting the bacilli , and higher powers , up to 1390 diameters , were employed for investigating the structure of the bacilli .
The methods adopted to ascertain the increase or diminution of the bacilli were :\#151 ; 1st , to count the numbers present in a series of fields of the microscope , at least six , and often twelve , being counted , and in doubtful cases the whole slide was carefully gone over before a conclusion was arrived at ; 2nd , to note the length of the bacilli and the presence or absence of well-marked divisions in these , preceding their multiplication ; 3rd , to observe whether the bacilli are isolated or in groups .
In every case a standard for comparison was first taken from the sputum , and the number of bacilli counted ; the rest of the sputum was divided into portions of 20 to 30 minims , mixed with solutions of various medicinal and other agents , and then kept in a Page 's incubator at a uniform temperature of 38 ' C. , for periods of from forty-eight hours to eight days .
The following cultivation fluids were used:\#151 ; Syrup solution of the strength of 2 drachms of syrup to 1 ounce of water .
Hay infusion .
and Medicinal Reagents on Bacillus tuberculosis .
511 Pasteur 's solution ( without sugar ) .
Beef solution , 1 ounce of meat to 2 ounces of water .
" , , \ ounce of meat to 2 ounces of water .
Pork broth ( Klein ) .
Also distilled water and the subjoined medicinal agents in solution were mixed , in generally equal proportions , with the sputum , and kept at the same temperature as above .
Solutions of quinine in strengths varying from 2 grs. to the ounce to 10 grs. to the ounce .
" " arsenious acid , S gr. to the ounce and 1 gr. to the ounce .
" , , boracic acid , 1 part in 30 and 1 part in 15 .
, , " iodine , 1 part in 12 .
" " perchloride of mercury , 1 gr. to the ounce .
The results were as follows :\#151 ; Syrwp.\#151 ; Cultivation was carried on for eight days .
The tubercle bacilli were found in diminishing numbers in the first forty-eight hours ; they afterwards gradually disappeared , and during the last three days none were detected .
On the first day they were of fair length , and some groups were noted .
Hay Infusion.\#151 ; Four days ' cultivation .
Bacilli were present in the first twenty-four hours , but afterwards disappeared entirely .
Pasteur 's Solution.\#151 ; Eight days ' cultivation .
Bacilli diminished in numbers at first and then remained stationary for some days .
They showed signs of increase on the eighth day .
Beef Solution.\#151 ; Two strengths were experimented on during seven and eight days .
In the stronger solution the bacilli increased enormously , both in numbers and in length , and in some fields of the microscope it was impossible to count them .
Groups of five and ten were not uncommon , but those of greatest length appeared isolated .
Some were long and slender , without cross markings , others shorter and slightly broader with well-marked spores .
The bacilli were most-abundant in the neighbourhood of the meat debris , round which they swarmed like ants on sugar .
As the solution became decomposed , the number of bacilli decreased , but about the seventh or eighth day , they were seen increasing by division .
The Bacterium termo and other bacilli were also present .
A weaker solution of beef gave the same results , though to a less marked extent .
Pork Broth.-\#151 ; Four days ' cultivation .
The results were different , for the bacilli did not increase in numbers , but rather declined , though they did not totally disappear from the solution .
Distilled Water.\#151 ; Two to three days .
The sputum of three different patients was mixed with distilled water , and in each case no growth or multiplication of bacilli was observed .
Sulphate of Quinine.\#151 ; A large number of experiments were made 512 Influence of certain Reagents on Bacillus tuberculosis .
with this agent , and resulted in demonstrating that the number of bacilli decreases rapidly under its influence , and that the bacilli in the sputum after being mixed with quinine could not be cultivated even in the beef solution before mentioned , thus showing that this drug not only arrests the growth of the bacillus , but destroys its power of multiplication .
All the solutions of quinine appear to possess this property , but the stronger ones to the greatest extent .
Arsenious Acid.\#151 ; This exercised no destructive influence on the bacilli , which increased sixfold in both strong and weak solutions .
The rods were generally short , with occasional long ones , and but few spores , and the groups were scanty in number .
Boracic Acid.\#151 ; The bacilli increased more abundantly in solutions of this than in arsenic , and displayed many groups of 2 , 5 , 7 , and 10 .
Rods in couples , arranged at an angle of 45 ' , were common .
They were of fair length and many contained spores .
Multiplication by division was proceeding .
Iodine.\#151 ; This drug reduced the numbers very considerably , and in many fields of the microscope it was difficult to find any bacilli , in others a few were present , but these showed no spores or indications of growth .
Perchloride of Mercury caused no diminution , but rather a marked increase in the number of the bacilli .
They were longer and with more spores than in the standard solution .
The tubercle bacillus is characterised by great durability of structure , as evidenced by its not being destroyed by the strong acids used in the various processes for its detection , and by its little tendency to decomposition .
It does not multiply in distilled water , but does so largely in beef solutions .
Arsenic , boracic acid , and perchloride of mercury do not interfere with its development , but rather promote it .
Quinine and iodine ( especially the former ) appear to entirely arrest its growth and destroy its power of multiplication .

