148 Dr. A. .
B. Garrod .
Certain Points in [ June 19 , The comparison with Gordon is more uncertain , inasmuch as his observations were made on light of the refrangibility of the thallium line .
The corrected* result for this light is in circular measure 1*5238 xlO~5 , or *05238 minute .
To pass to sodium we may use a formula given by Becqnerelf and Verdet according to which the rotation for different wave-lengths ( A. ) is proportional to \#151 ; 1)\-* n being the refractive index .
At this rate the *05238 minute for thallium would be *04163 minute for sodium .
The temperature was not directly observed by Gordon , but was estimated to be about 13 ' C. Assuming this to be correct , the value for 18 ' would be *0413 minute , or about 2 per cent , less than according to my determinations .
XII .
" Certain Points in connexion with , the Physiology* of Uric Acid , " ( Supplemental .
) By Alfred Baring Garrod , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) One of the objects of the present paper is the correction of an error of interpretation in the author 's communication of February 15th , 1883 .
Another object is to make known certain facts which he has ascertained in seeking to correct the same .
The author hopes , 1st , to give a true explanation of the phenomena previously misinterpreted ; 2ndly , to make known some facts hitherto unknown , whence arose the error in question ; and 3rdly , to show the existence of certain peculiarities in the urine of herbivorous mammals , with regard to uric acid , which peculiarities the author anticipated , so that he was led to undertake numerous experiments and observations with the object of verifying or disproving such anticipations .
The subject discussed in Part I is the influence of alkaline carbonates upon uric acid .
Many experiments are detailed , and , as a result it is found that weak solutions of the alkaline carbonates , when exposed to the air , possess the power of decomposing uric acid in solution , and that oxalic acid and urea are among the products of the decomposition .
By the .
recognition of this fact certain physiological phenomena in relation to the urine can be explained .
Part II is devoted to the demonstration of the action of glycocine ( glycocoll ) and a few other substances in protecting uric acid from * Mr. Gordon 's result was originally given at double its proper value , f " Ann. d. China .
, " t. xii , 1877 , p. 78 .
1884 .
] Connexion with the Physiology of Uric Acid .
149 decomposition when in an alkaline solution .
Glycocine is shown to have a very considerable power , even when in small quantities , such as to Per cen^- the solution .
It was this fact which led to the misinterpretation of certain phenomena in the author 's paper of 1883 ; for it was found that in a glycocine solution no change of uric acid took place ; whereas , in a solution of hippuric or benzoic acid , decomposition readily ensued ; and , as the influence of weak alkaline carbonates was not then recognized , the destructive action was attributed to these acids .
It will be seen that , in a free state , glycocine protects uric acid , but when in union with benzoic acid ( in the form of hippuric acid ) its protective power is lost .
The different protective powers of glucose and cane-sugar are alluded to .
Part III treats of the urine of the herbivorous mammal under different conditions .
It occurred to the author that , if at any time the urine of such animals should lose its ordinary alkaline state and become acid , at such time uric acid would probably be found .
Twenty-five specimens of urine derived from nine different horses were examined ; besides which many other specimens , from ten different horses , were tested , simply to ascertain the reaction of the urine .
The tests employed to demonstrate the presence of uric acid are fully described under each examination , and some of the more important characters of the urine are given .
In eighteen different horses the urine was found to be acid in two only , and even in these two the acidity of the urine was by no means constant , as each of them passed , at times , an urine which was fully alkaline in reaction .
Many conclusions are drawn from the above observations , among which it is found that the character of the food does not necessarily influence the reaction of the urine ; neither does the state of health ; it is also found that almost all the urines had oxalate deposits ; most of them contained an abundance of calcium carbonate , and all the urines examined were rich both in urea and in hippuric acid .
Of the results brought out , by far the most interesting is that which has regard to the presence or absence of uric acid ; for it is shown that there is an absence of uric acid from the urine of the horse , when the reaction is alkaline , as it ordinarily is , but on the other hand , it is equally proved that , when the urine of the horse exhibits an acid reaction , then uric acid is present in quantities equal to what is found in the urine of carnivorous mammals , as the lion and the tiger .
* It is also shown that the presence or absence of uric acid does not 150 Mr. H. Robinson .
A Redetermination of [ June 19 , depend on any peculiarity in the animal , but simply on the reaction of its urine at the time . .
The original view of the author , which led to his making the numerous observations above mentioned , which also he enunciated in his communication of February , 1883 , appears to be fully verified by them ; and the conclusion may fairly be drawn that , under ordinary circumstances , the absence of uric acid from the urine of the adult horse is not due to the non-formation of this acid , but to the destruction which it undergoes when formed , so that , if at any time the destructive influence is removed by the fluid assuming an acid reaction , uric acid appears in the urine .
Lastly , we may derive from the above observations an explanation of the fact that uric acid is present in the urine of the suckling herbivorous mammal , for in such animals the urine is found to be acid in reaction .
XIII .
" A Redetermination of the Atomic Weight of Cerium .
" By Henry Robinson , B.A. , Assistant to the Professor of Chemistry in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Living , F.R.S. Received June 11 , 1884 .
Having worked a good deal during the last few years on the preparation of pure compounds of the cerium and yttrium metals , I was led to seek some method by which I might obtain their anhydrous chlorides in such a state of purity that it would be possible to make from them redeterminations of the atomic weights of the metals .
In April last year , I succeeded in preparing anhydrous cerium chloride ( and in this paper I shall confine myself to that metal ) by passing dry hydrochloric acid gas over what I may call air-dry cerium oxalate , heating it at first gently , so as not to char the oxalate , and then , as the operation proceeded , increasing the temperature to a full red heat .
The chloride so obtained was perfectly white , and , when thrown into water , dissolved , with a hissing noise and a considerable evolution of heat , to a clear and colourless solution .
I obtained the chloride so easily on the first attempt , I supposed I could repeat the experiment at will , but such did not prove to be the case , and , being much occupied with other duties , not much more was done towards the attainment of my object until the commencement of the present year .
I had previously prepared a considerable quantity of pure cerium oxalate , in the following manner , from a crude yellow sulphate obtained from Schuchardt .
It contained much didymium and

