\gt ; 77 .
] On the Motion of Vibrating Bodies .
15/ 1 the case with the light from the enveloping surface formed by the pS60US envelopes .
The light from this envelope received on a slit in the cus of an object-glass would be sensibly constant , because the contriving area would be increased in the same proportion that the light ceived from each part is diminished .
The result would be that at some .finite distance , and all greater distances , the preponderating light ceived from such a cluster would be derived from the gaseous envelopes id not from the isolated stellar masses .
The spectrum of the cluster old therefore become a linear one , like that from the gaseous sur-\gt ; undings of our own sun .
The linear spectrum might , of course , under jrtain circumstances , be seen mixed up with a feeble continuous spec-.mn from the light of the stars themselves .
It should be noticed that , in this view of the subject , the linear spec-\#166 ; lrni can only appear when the resolvability of the cluster is at least ijuriously affected by the light of the gaseous envelopes becoming dnsibly proportional to that from the stellar masses , and that in the reat majority of such cases it would only be in the light from the irre-olvable portions of the cluster that bright lines could be seen in the pectrum .
The changes in form which would be presented to us by such a nebula light be expected to be small .
These changes would depend chiefly ipon changes in the distribution of the stellar masses constituting the luster .
It has always appeared to me difficult to realize the conditions mder which isolated irregular masses of gas , presenting to us sharp ngular points , could exist uncontrolled by any central gravitational mass without showing larger changes in form than appear to have been the as with many of the nebulae .
In my view of the nature of nebulae this lifficulty no longer exists .
Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , February 9 , 1877 .
ill .
uOn some Figures exhibiting the Motion of Vibrating Bodies , and on a New Method for determining the Speed of Machines/ ' By Herbert McLeod , F.C.S. , Professor of Experimental Science , and George Sydenham Clarke , Lieut. R.E. , Instructor in Geometrical Drawing in the Royal Indian Engineering College , Cooper 's Hill .
Communicated by Prof. Duncan , F.R.S. , Pres. G.S. Received April 5 , 1877 .
If the image of a point of light or of a black dot on a white ground be observed in a vibrating mirror , the motion of which may be produced by a tuning-fork or reed , the point , in virtue of the retention of the image on the retina , will appear as a straight line .
If , however , the luminous point be moving in a direction at right angles to the plane in which the 158 Prof. H. M'Leod and Lieut. G. S. Clarke on [ Apr. 19 , fork vibrates , and parallel to the plane of the mirror , the combination ol the two rectilinear motions will produce a sinuous line or wave-form .
The dimensions of this wave will depend on the amplitude of the vibrations of the fork and on the velocity of movement of the point ol light in relation to the period of the fork } when the rate of translation of the point is great the wave-length will be great ; with a low velocity the wave-length will be small .
The greater the amplitude of the vibrations of the fork , the greater will be the amplitude of the wave .
When a series of equidistant points attached to a rotating disk or cylinder is employed , the properties of the wave differ very much according to the velocity of the moving disk .
If the points are placed in a circle on a disk or cylinder rotating with such a velocity that the time occupied by a point in passing over a distance equal to that between two consecutive points is exactly equal to the period of one complete vibration of the fork , a continuous stationary figure is perceived ; but if the point passes over a distance slightly greater than the intervals , the figure will show a slow progression in the direction of the moving circle ; and when the space described by the point is slightly less than the distance between the points , the motion of the figure will be in the opposite direction .
If the velocity of the circle is one half of that necessary7 ' to produce the stationary wave another stationary figure results , but with half the wavelength of the previous one , the luminous point passing over a distance equal to the interval between two points during two vibrations of the fork ; the brightness of the wave is also less .
Generally , if the time occupied by the point in moving through a distance equal to that between two consecutive points is an exact multiple of the period of the fork , stationary waves will be formed ; waves thus produced have been observed with velocities and \#163 ; of that necessary to generate the wave-form first described .
When the velocity of the moving points is so much increased that the eye is unable to follow the movement of the figure , a complex form is produced by the overlapping of several waves ; and at some velocities these figures may appear stationary , but their complexity usually makes it difficult to establish their exact form .
Another simple and easily recognized figure , however , is observed when the velocity of the moving points is once and a half as great as that necessary to produce the stationary single wave .
This figure is caused by the .
overlapping of three waves so placed that the crest of one is over the crossing of the other two .
This figure , like the previous one , show 's a direct or inverse motion when the velocity of the points is not exactly that which wTould produce the stationary figure .
When the velocity of the points is such that the distance traversed by one point during a complete vibration of the fork is equal to double the interval between two consecutive points , a figure is formed by the overlapping of two waves with their crests and hollows opposed and crossing at the line that would be described by the points if 877.1 the Motion of Vibrating Bodies .
he mirror were not vibrating .
When this figure is produced the number i I points passing in a given time is twice the number of vibrations of he mirror ; this is the most useful form for observation , as it is very asily recognized .
By still further increasing the rapidity of passage of % he points a triple figure is again produced when the rate of rotation is xactly double that which forms the similar figure mentioned previously ; \gt ; r , calling the velocity producing the single figure 1 , the triple is observed with a velocity of 1| and also 3 .
When the rate is 4 , a figure composed \gt ; f four overlapping waves is formed .
It is thus seen that , like the single wave , the triple figure may be pro-luced by more than one velocity\#151 ; in fact it has been observed with four |J listinct velocities , namely , 3 , f , f , and f , taking the velocity producing the single figure as 1 .
Similarly the double figure has been obtained J with a velocity of 2 , f , and f ; and the quadruple with the velocities 4 1 in(j a. It is obvious that these are not the only rates capable of form-. .
, ng these figures .
Theoretically each may be obtained by an infinite number of velocities ; and the relation between the number of vibrations and the passage of the points may be expressed in the following terms:\#151 ; A single wave is formed when a whole number of vibrations takes place in the time of the passing of a point over one interval .
A double figure is formed when a whole number of vibrations takes place in the time of the passing of a point over two intervals , provided that this whole number is not divisible by two .
A triple figure is formed when a whole number of vibrations takes place in the time of passing of a point over three intervals , provided that the whole number is not divisible by three .
Lastly , a quadruple figure is formed when a whole number of vibra-|W1 tions takes place in the time of passing of a point over four intervals , provided that the whole number is not divisible by two or by four .
Besides the mirror other means may be employed to view these figures : .''if for instance , they may be observed through a lens attached to one of \#166 ; the prongs of the fork , or a real image of the figures may be produced by the lens and observed with or without a fixed lens .
Instead of a fly tuning-fork , a reed may be used to carry the mirror or lens .
From the foregoing it will be seen that the formation of these figures M may be employed for determining the speed of revolution of the disk or \gt ; tqi cylinder , if the period of the fork or reed , and also the number of points Si on the rotating body , are known .
For some velocities , indicated by whole numbers per minute , the circle i#1 on the disk or cylinder must be divided into equal intervals ; thus in the fly \#187 ; case of a fork vibrating 60 times a second , or 3600 times a minute , it is necessary that 7200 points should pass in a minute in order to form Mf the double figure .
If the disk is rotating 100 times a minute , it is clear M that the circle must contain 72 equal intervals ; for a velocity of 96 jjjw I v VOL. XXVI .
M Prof. H. M'Leod and Lieut. G. S. Clarke on [ Apr. 19 ; revolutions per minute 75 equal intervals ; but for the intermediate numbers of rotations fractional numbers of intervals are necessary ; for 97 revolutions 74-220 intervals are required .
Great difficulties would be found in dividing the circles in this manner ; and the employment of \#166 ; whole numbers of intervals would be equally inadmissible , 74 intervals , for example , corresponding to 97*2973 revolutions .
This difficulty may be obviated by ruling on paper convergent lines , and then wrapping the paper round a cylinder , so that one of the lines is parallel to the axis .
In this way circles traced round the cylinder are divided into any required parts ; and between those circles , where numbers of equal intervals are found , there will be every conceivable division between these numbers . .
This method of division possesses also the great advantage that equal distances along the cylinder correspond to equal differences of numbers of rotations : taking the above example , the circles on the cylinder where 72 and 75 equal intervals are found will correspond to 100 and 96 rotations respectively ; on dividing the distance between the two rings into four equal parts , numbers of spaces corresponding to the whole numbers of rotations , 99 , 98 , and 97 , will be found on the three intermediate circles .
The lines may now be converted into dots by erasing the portions not required , or a screen with narrow slits placed in front of the cylinder will effect the same object .
Another arrangement may be employed by which fractions of rotations may be measured .
If the lines are viewed through a narrow slit in a piece of black paper or thin metal attached to a tuning-fork or reed , vibrating in a plane parallel to the axis of the cylinder , the figures will be perceived on looking through the slit .
If the fork be now moved parallel to the axis of the cylinder until the figure appears stationary , the numbers of rotations may be read off from a graduated scale .
When the figure is formed on circles , the circumferences of which are not an exact multiple of the intervals , so that one division is smaller than the rest , the figure is observed to make a sudden movement or jump at the time of the passage of the small division .
There seems to be no way of preventing this ; but it is not found to have any practical objection ; for when the crossings of the double curve remain stationary during the remainder of the revolution , the proper position on the cylinder has been obtained .
After the jump the figure remains stationary , but in a slightly altered position .
In the employment of the tuning-fork means had to be devised for readily setting it in vibration : the use of the violin bow is obviously inconvenient ; and this was soon replaced by a fork with the distance between the prongs less at the top than at the bottom , and which was started in the usual way by drawing a rod between the prongs .
This mode has ultimately been replaced by the use of a short piece of soft iron , carried on an axis fixed between the prongs ; when forced between the prongs the iron bar opens them to a sufficient extent , and on turning the 1077 .
] the Motion of Vibrating Bodies .
, xig ^idly through 90 ' the bar is placed parallel to the fork , which is eft vibrating .
This contrivance may be found useful for lecture purges when large forks are used to show Lissajous ' figures .
It may be nentioned in passing that two forks without mirrors or lenses may eadily be brought into unison or into some simple relation by attaching o one prong of each a thin piece of black paper with a fine slit .
One If ork is placed vertically and the other horizontally , a fixed lens being Mounted between them so as to form an image of one slit on the other , tight is then passed through one slit ; and on looking through the other t square dot of light is seen , which produceslhe Lissajous ' figures when 8l| .he forks are in motion .
With a large fork the influence of the additional weight of the paper and attaching gum is imperceptible .
When a slit on a fork or reed is used together with the rotating cylinder , b| if is necessary to avoid parallax by throwing on the slit an image of the Ilf |ine9 by means of a lens , and the observation is much facilitated by the if| employment of a second lens to view the slit .
The reed is placed at , within a box capable of travelling on a fixed bed parallel to the cylinder , ig ymi the slit is soldered to the reed within the box ; the latter is pierced jioif by two holes closed with lenses .
Some difficulty was at first experienced !
( |i| with the harmonium reed , which was placed in a box small enough to be readily movable along the slide , and to which the air had to be led by a ntf ; flexible tube .
The reed requiring a large quantity of am at low pressure sit to cause it to vibrate properly , it was not possible , without the use of 4 large bellows and wide conducting-tubes , to produce the desired effect ; 8#I it also appears essential that the air in eontact with the reed should be ; 'pf contained in a chest of considerable dimensions , to permit of sufficient gifri compression of the air when the tongue , nearly closes the orifice .
After numerous failures , a method , which we believe to be novel in this application , was found quite efficacious , namely , the employment of the principle of the injector or jet-pump .
To the box is fixed a wide brass tube , with a considerable orifice in the side ; at the end of the tube away from the box is fitted by a cork a glass tube , terminating in a narrow jet 1| millim. in diameter ; when air is forced through the jet at a pressure about equal to that of a column of water 20 or 25 centims. in height the reed vibrates perfectly , the mean pressure of the air in the box being equal to that of a column of water about lj millim. high .
Instead of , or together with , the graduated scale along which the box , j\#187 ; containing the reed or tuning-fork slides , a scale may be placed on a thin rule close to the cylinder , the numbers on which are visible simultaneously with the figures produced by the vibrating slit .
This may be of some advantage when it is neeessary to observe rapid changes of velocity .
By )|C J drawing circles round the cylinder corresponding to the divisions of the scale , any possible error from slight shifting of the scale is obviated .
With this arrangement it is not even necessary that the reed or tuning-fork should be near the rotating cylinder ; for if the slit is placed at the focus if m 2 162 On the Motion of Vibrating Bodies .
[ Apr. 19 of the object-glass of a telescope the observations can be made from i considerable distance ; this may be useful when a shaft in an inaccessibl situation is the subject of experiment .
It seemed advisable to determine the effect of alterations of temperatim on the period of the fork , which might be so great as to render some cor rection necessary .
For this purpose two equal forks provided wit !
mirrors , and making about 60 vibrations a second , were enclosed in wooden boxes containing thermometers , which were placed between thf prongs .
One of the forks was fixed in a vertical position and the othei horizontally , the box containing the latter having its lower side replaced by two pieces of sheet zinc , separated by a layer of air about half an inch in thickness .
By the flame of a small gas-burner the temperature of the air in the box could be raised to about 60 ' C. At the side of each boi was a hole opposite to the mirror , and closed by a plate of glass .
The Lissajous ' figure obtained by the reflection of a point of light in the two mirrors was observed in a small telescope ; and the time required for the passage of the figure through a whole cycle was determined when the thermometers indicated different temperatures .
There was some doubi whether the thermometers gave a true indication of the temperatures of the forks ; but in the series of experiments giving the most concordant results the heat was applied near one end of the box , and at the greatest possible distance from the thermometer , in order to set up convection currents to equalize the temperature of the air and fork as completely as possible .
It would be no doubt preferable to introduce into each box a small fan to keep the air in continuous motion ; in all cases the temperature was changed very slowly , and a considerable time allowed to elapse between two observations .
In the last series of nine observations the differences between the temperatures of the two forks varied from 9 ' to 27 ' C. , and from the observed results the increase of the period of the heated fork for 1 ' C. was calculated .
The mean loss per minute for 1 ' C. amounted to '4013 vibration in 3600 ; the minimum number being .3921 , and the maximum *4043 .
That is to say , a fork giving 3600 vibrations a minute at the ordinary temperature , would give 3599*6 when the temperature is raised 1'\#151 ; a loss of about *011 per cent. So that if a determination of velocity were made at a temperature 20 ' above that at which the fork is giving exactly 3600 vibrations per minute , a correction of *22 per cent , would have to be deducted from the number obtained .
I There is some difficulty in determining the exact number of vibrations of a large fork ; the difficulty , however , disappears when a graduated cylinder or disk is driven with a constant velocity , and the number of vibrations per second calculated from the form of the figure produced by the fork .
This method has been employed with the forks at present in use , and by proper arrangements it can be applied to the determination of the numbers of vibrations produced by musical forks ; but up to the present we have failed in producing by means of clock-work a rotation H 877 .
] On the Beds of Chert in the Limestones of Ireland .
163 which is sufficiently constant , our most successful results having been gained with a six-horse power Corliss engine , with a heavy fly-wheel , in he workshop of the College .
Some experiments which promise well have been made with rotating lists on the principle of the thaumatrope .
By using a rotating disk nth slits , and viewing through them another disk on which appropriate igures or symbols are marked , the velocity of one can be determined if hat of the other is known .
This principle may possibly be applied with 4t| idvantage to determine the relative velocity of two machines , such as the win screws of ships .
tot Without pretending that the method described in this paper for deter-Kfj tuning the velocity of rotation will be useful on an extensive scale , we \#171 ; top that it may be applicable in some cases of investigation where accurate observations can be rapidly made without any complex apparatus 41 \gt ; r difficult manipulation .
It has the advantage that it .
can be applied III lirectly to a machine without the intervention of any gearing , the mere fltil ittaching of a piece of paper to a shaft being all that is necessary .
It Bit ; annot , by giving the machine more work to do , produce any effect on n ts rate ; and by the impossibility of slip , it must give accurate results if he paper is properly mounted in the first instance and the observations m are properly made .
rf Being an optical method for investigating rotation , we suggest cyclo-el# scope as a name for the instrument .
\#171 ; ; . !
*S kjH m April 26 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
.iH| : The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for oittem- 3 The following Papers were read :\#151 ; 191 Hr thdj 1 .
" On the Nature and Origin of the Beds of Chert in the Upper Carboniferous Limestones of Ireland .
" By Prof. Edward Hull , M.A. , F.R.S. , Director of the Geological Survey of Ireland .
With " Chemical Notes , " by E. T. Hardman , E.C.S. , of the Geological Survey of Ireland .
Received March 16 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) After reviewing what had been published by previous authors on the 1 origin of chert-beds , and showing that much remained to be done in this department of petrology , the author proceeded to describe the geological mI\#187 ;

