II .
" On the Structure of some Limestone Nodules enclosed in Seams of Bituminous Coal , with a Description of some Trigonocarpons contained in them .
" By J. D. HOOKER , M.D. , F.R.S. , and E. BINNEY , Esq. Received November 23 , 1854 .
The authors first describe the occurrence of the limestone nodules , which form a continuous bed in the centre of a thin seam of bituminous coal in the lower part of the Lancashire coal-field .
The nodules were of various sizes , some weighing many pounds , and caused the coal to bulge out both above and below them , and they were found to be entirely composed of vegetable tissues converted into carbonate of lime and magnesia .
Their formation is supposed by the authors to be due to infiltration of water through the superincumbent shales , which were full of fossil shells supposed to be of marine origin , and the aggregation of the mineral matter round centres of vegetable remains .
The chemical constituents of the nodules were found to be carbonates of lime and magnesia , sesquioxide and sulphate of iron , with a little carbonaceous matter .
The probability of these nodules representing an average sample of the vegetable constituents of the surrounding coal is then discussed , and attention is drawn to the very great interest and importance that would attach to them were such a view substantiated , as showing the exact nature of the association of plants which is capable of conversion into bituminous coal .
All the plants contained in the nodules were common in other parts of the coal formation , viz. Calamodendron , Halonia , Sigillaria , Lepidodendron , Stigmaria , Trigonocarpon , Anabothra , and others ; of these the first-named genus occurred in the greatest abundance and as large fragments of fossil wood .
Very many of the specimens were sliced , and being reduced to very thin transparent sections , were examined with the view of determining the botanical character of their contents , and the intimate structure of the masses of more or less homogeneous aspect to which they were reduced by decomposition , previous to or during the operation of calcification .
The results were very satisfactory , and seemed to indicate that all traces of vegetable structure may be completely obliterated in the substance of highly bituminized coal , which may nevertheless also contain fragments of wood with their tissues preserved .
An account is then given of the examination of the details of structure of Trigonocarpon , and this , as well as the comparison of Trigonocarpon with the modern genus Salisburia , is illustrated by drawings and analyses .
The authors are still engaged with the study of these nodules , with the view of showing the relationship between Calamodendron , Calamites , Sigillaria and Anabothra , and the details are preparing for publication .

