300 Prof. 0 .
Reynolds .
[ Apr. 8 .
Gulliver ( George ) , F.R.S. Notes of Researches in Anatomy , Physiology , Pathology , and Botany .
8vo .
Canterbury 1880 .
The Author .
Liversidge ( A. ) Disease in the Sugar Cane , Queensland .
12mo .
Sydney .
And a Volume containing twenty-one Pamphlets by Professor Liversidge .
The Author .
Spratt ( Rear-Admiral T. ) , F.R.S. A Suggestion for the Improvement of the Entrance to the Mersey .
8vo .
London 1880 .
The Author .
April 8 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT , followed by Mr. WARREN DE LA RUE , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Note on Thermal Transpiration .
" By O. Reynolds , F.R.S. , Professor of Engineering in Owens College , Manchester .
In a Letter to Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes .
Received October 25 , 1879 .
Owens College , 23rd October , 1879 .
Dear Sir , I have just received a copy of a paper by Professor Maxwell from the " Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society , " read April 11 , 1878 , " On the Stresses in Rarefied Gases .
" To this paper I find that there is an appendix added in May , 1879 , in the course of which he refers to my investigation in the following words :\#151 ; " This phenomenon , to which Professor Reynolds has given the name of Thermal Transpiration , was discovered entirely by him . . . .
It was not till after I had read Professor Reynolds 's paper that I began to reconsider the surface conditions of a gas , so that what I have done is simply to extend to the surface phenomena the method which I think most suitable for treating the interior of the gas .
I think that this method is , in some respects , better than that adopted by Professor Reynolds , while I admit that his method is sufficient to establish the existence of the phenomena , though not to afford an estimate of their amount .
" As the abstract of my paper does not contain a sufficient account of Note on Thermal Transpiration .
1880 .
] what is in the paper to enable a reader to form a fair judgment of the relative merits of the two methods , I venture to request those interested in the subject to withhold their opinion until they have an opportunity of reading my paper .
In the meantime I can only express , ny opinion that Professor Maxwell is mistaken in supposing that the results which are obtained from his method are more definite than those to be obtained by mine .
His method only applies to a particular case , and the equation which he has given is identical with that which 1 have given for this particular case .
The particular case treated by Professor Maxwell is the extreme limit\#151 ; when the tube is large as compared with the distances between the molecules ; he does not deal at all with the other limit\#151 ; when the distances between the molecules are large as compared with the tube .
Whereas I have given definite values for the coefficients in both limits , as well as indicating the manner in which the coefficients vary between these limits .
It so happens that the case in which the tube is large as compared with the molecular distances is one in which the results are too small to be experimentally appreciable , and hence Professor Maxwell 's method does not explain any of the actual experimental results .
In order to explain the experimental results obtained with porous plates , Professor Maxwell has reverted to G-raham 's assumption that fine plates act as apertures in thin plates , while the coarse plates act like a tube , an assumption which my experiments show conclusively to be unnecessary and erroneous , the only sensible action in either case being that of tubes , and hence the phenomena of porous plates is that of transpiration and not effusion .
I remain Yours truly , Osborne Reynolds .
Professor Stokes , F.R.S. , Secretary to the Royal Society .
Note by the Communicator .
In communicating the above letter to the Royal Society , in accordance with Professor Reynolds 's wishes , I would beg permission to add a few remarks .
Professor Maxwell did not profess to treat more than the two extreme cases , constituting what Graham called respectively transpiration and diffusion .
His statistical method applies , indeed , only to the first of these limits ; but he has distinctly considered the second , following a suggestion of Sir William Thomson 's .
It is true that at the first limit , as Professor Reynolds remarks , the results are too 302 Messrs. W. Spottiswoode and J. F. Moulton .
[ Apr. 8 small to be experimentally appreciable ; but this was distinctly stated by Professor Maxwell himself , at the foot of p. 256 .
As to the second limit , I must remark , in the first place , that I can .
not find that Graham made any assumption that porous plates act a* apertures in thin plates .
The result that the time of passage varies cceteris paribus , as the square root of the density in the case of fine porous plates , was obtained by pure experiment ; and though he could not fail to notice the accordance of this result with that of the mere hydrodynamical passage through a small aperture , he has carefully distinguished between the two .
Nor can I agree with Professor Reynolds in regarding the explanation given by Professors Thomson and Maxwell of the phenomenon of thermal transpiration or thermal effusion , whichever it be called , afforded by assimilating a fine porous plate to a thin plate pierced by apertures of ideal fineness as erroneous , even though it should be shown that such assimilation is unnecessary .
Professor Maxwell did not profess to treat in his paper the intermediate cases between the two extreme limits .
Perhaps I should mention , that the foot-note at p. 281 in Professor Maxwell 's paper was added as the paper passed through the press .
I recollect noticing the thing as , in my capacity of Secretary , I looked over the paper before sending it to be printed off , and considering whether I should affix a date .
As , however , it seemed to me to contain merely an explanation of an expression in the text , and as Maxwell , who had carefully added the dates of fresh matter in other parts , did not seem to have thought it necessary to do so in this case , I left it as it was .
In a letter I received from him at the time , he informed me that he felt very ill , and was hardly fit even to go through his own paper ; though a subsequent letter , in which he entered into some scientific matters , was written in his usual cheerful style .
No one had , I believe , at that time any notion of the very serious nature of his illness .
March 13 , 1880 .
G. G. Stokes .
IT .
" On the Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges .
Part II .
" By William Spottiswoode , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Pres. R.S. , and J. Fletcher Moulton , late Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Received March 11 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) This paper forms a sequel to that published under the same title in the " Phil. Trans. , " 1879 , p. 165 .
It describes a continuation of the research into the nature and laws of the disruptive discharge , or elec-

