The following papers were read , viz. ?
" On the Constitution of the Resins .
" Part I. By James F. W. Johnston , Esq. , F.R.S. The object of the general investigation , of which the commencement is given in this paper , is to determine the relative composition of the various resins which occur in nature , and to trace the analogies they exhibit in their constitution ; and also to ascertain how far they may be regarded as being derived from one common principle , and whether they admit of being all represented by one or more general formulae .
The chemical investigation of the resin of mastic shows that this substance consists of two resins ; the one soluble , and acid ; the other insoluble , and having no acid properties .
The formula ; expressing the analysis of each of these are given by the author .
He also shows that a series of analyses may be obtained which do not indicate the true constitution of a resin .
The soluble resin , when exposed to the prolonged action of a heat exceeding 300 ?
Fahr. is partly converted into a resin containing three , and partly into one containing five equivalent parts of oxygen , the proportion of carbon remaining constant .
The same resin combines with bases , so as to form four series of salts ; which , in the case of oxide of lead , consist of equivalents of resin and of oxide in the proportions , respeetivety , of two to one ; three to two ; one to one ; and one to two .
This soluble resin in combining with bases does not part with any of its oxygen ; but if any change takes place in its constitution , it consists in the hydrogen being replaced by an equivalent proportion of a metal ; and formulae are given representing the salts oflead on this theoretical view .
By boiling the resin in contact with ammonia and nitrate of silver , or perhaps with nitrate of ammonia , it is converted into a resin which forms a bisalt with oxide of silver , in which there is also an apparent replacement of hydrogen by silver .
The resin next examined is that of dragon 's blood : and the conclusions deduced from its analysis are the following .
First , that the lump dragon 's blood is the natural and pure resin , while the strained and red varieties , being manufactured articles , are more or less decomposed : secondly , that this resin retains alcohol and ether , as most other resins do , with considerable tenacity ; but that these sol ?
vents may be entirely expelled by a long-continued exposure to a temperature not higher than 200 ?
Fahr. : and lastly , the formula ?
representing its chemical composition is given .

