90 The Cultivation of Human Tumour Tissue in Vitro Note .
By David Thomson , M.B. , Ch. B. ( Edin .
) , D.P.H. ( Cantab .
) , Grocers ' Research Scholar , and John Gordon Thomson , M.A. , M.B. , Ch. B. ( Edin .
) , Beit Memorial Research Fellow .
( Communicated by Sir Ronald Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 4 , \#151 ; Read May 14 , 1914 .
) ( From the Marcus Beck Laboratory , Royal Society of Medicine , London .
) [ Plate 7 .
] On two occasions the authors have definitely succeeded in cultivating human tumour tissue in vitro .
The tissue was obtained at operations performed by Sir John Bland-Sutton at the Middlesex Hospital , and conveyed in sterile Ringer 's solution in a thermos flask to the laboratory , where small portions were immediately inoculated into the culture medium .
( a ) 'Intracystic Papilloma of the Ovary ( not truly malignant).\#151 ; This tissue was grown in a medium composed of fowl plasma 1 part , Ringer 's solution ( containing 0-5 per cent , of glucose ) 1 part , and extract of the tumour in Ringer 's solution 1 part .
On the third day of incubation at C. definite buds of new growing tissue appeared .
On the fifth day these were more distinct and on the eighth day the amount of growth had increased considerably ( fig. 1 , Plate 7 ) .
This growth consisted of a solid extension of epithelial cells .
As the growth increased it caused some liquefaction of the medium , which was of a gelatinous consistence , and in the more liquefied parts the new growing cells were scattered ( fig. 2 ) , but as a rule they remained in contact with each other by means of long fine protoplasmic connections ( fig. 3 ) .
The new actively proliferating cells varied markedly from the cells of the original tissue planted in the medium .
The former were large and amoeboid , with long processes which communicated with each other , and they also contained large highly refractile granules .
The original cells , on the other hand , were much smaller ; they showed no amoeboid processes , did not exhibit amoeboid movement and they contained few or no refractile granules .
This tumour was a very soft one and appeared to contain little or no fibrous stroma .
It was composed entirely of epithelial cells , and it will be noted that the new growth also consisted of epithelial cells only .
( b ) Carcinomatous Gland from the Neck ( secondary to carcinoma of the floor of the mouth).\#151 ; Small portions of this tumour tissue grew most successThomson \amp ; Thomson The Cultivation of Human Tumour Tissue in Vitro .
91 fully in a medium composed of fowl plasma 1 part + extract of embryonic chick 1 part .
Unlike the previous tumour , this one was somewhat tough and fibrous , due to the presence of a considerable amount of connective tissue stroma , and it is interesting to note that the new growth in this case consisted of both tissues .
After 44 hours ' incubation at 37'5 ' C. , long branching stroma cells appeared growing out from the original tissue .
After five days , there appeared in several places solid buds composed of epithelial cells , and these increased in size day by day .
Fig. 4 represents a microphotograph of the live tissue after nine days ' incubation and shows clearly the outgrowth of stroma cells and also new buds of epithelial cells of the cancer .
Fig. 5 shows definitely a solid outgrowth of cancerous epithelial cells after nine days ' incubation , and fig. 6 shows the marked increase of the same portion after 13 days ' incubation .
Growth ceased after 15 days .
As in the case of the papilloma of the ovary the new growing epithelial cells were again much larger than the original .
They were amoeboid and were filled with highly refractile granules .
It is interesting to note that these human tumour tissues were cultivated in a medium composed chiefly of fowl blood plasma , or , in other words , the human tissue proliferated in a nutrient material obtained entirely from a bird .
This is contrary to what was previously believed , since it was considered that the tissue of a certain animal could only grow in a medium composed of the blood plasma of the same species of animal .
Fuller details of this work , and parallel researches on the cultivation of the normal tissues of other animals , will be published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE .
( All the figures represent microphotographs of the live growing tissue .
) Fig. 1.\#151 ; Papilloma of ovary ; tissue after eight days ' incubation .
Note the outgrowth of processes composed of epithelial cells , x 50 diameters .
Fig. 2 .
Another portion of the same after nine days ' incubation .
The medium is becoming liquefied and the new cells are somewhat scattered , x 90 .
I ig .
3 .
Higher magnifications of the new growing cells .
Note the amoeboid protoplasmic processes and the highly refractile granules , x 870 .
Fig. 4 .
Cancerous lymphatic gland ; tissue after nine days ' incubation .
Note the buds of epithelial cancer cells and also the outgrowth of connective tissue stroma cells , x 80 .
I ig .
5 .
Another portion of the same , after nine days ' incubation .
Note the solid outgrowth of epithelial cancer cells , x 80 .
Fig. 6 .
Same portion after thirteen days ' incubation .
Note the marked increase of the outgrowth of epithelial cancer cells , x 80 .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\#151 ; B. I

