268 Mr. D. D. Cunningham .
On Relation of [ Nov. 16 , .
relative size .
Not any of the above named fossils appear to me to call for a Plate .
III .
" On the Relation of particular Structural Features in certain Leaves to the Phenomena of Nyctitropism and Movements incident on Stimulation by Concussion .
" By D. D. Cunningham .
Communicated by Sir J. Hooker , K.C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received June 29 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The leaves forming the subjects of special study were those of the following species:\#151 ; Mimosa pudica , Neptunia oleracea , Saman , Albizzia Lebbek , Leucaena glauca , Cassia alata , and Cassia ] sumatrana .
In all of them nyctitropic movements occur , and in all , j save those of Albizzia Lebbek , in which the point has not yet been ] determined , movements also follow stimulation by concussion .
The j movements in individual instances , however , differ greatly in cha- J racter , in degree , and in persistence in relation to the life of the \lt ; leaves .
The differences in regard to the rapidity and extent of movement incident on concussion are specially marked .
In Mimosa pudica and Neptunia oleracea such movements are very extensive and rapid ; in the two species of Cassia they are very slight and gradual , and those in the leaves of Pithecolobium Saman and Leucaena glauca are of an intermediate character .
In some cases both classes of movements persist from the period at which they first manifest themselveB until the death of the leaves , but in others they diminish with increasing age , and disappear long ere death ensues .
The paper is divided into three principal sections .
The first of these deals with the structural features of the individual leaves , the second with the phenomena of movement , and the third contains a comparison of the structural and motorial phenomena with a view to determine how far these are essentially related to one another .
In the first section it is shown that the contractile organs which are the chief determinants of movement are , throughout the entire series of leaves , specially characterised by the porous nature of their component tissues .
The porosity is very various in degree in different cases , and , according to the extent to which it prevails , converts thSj entire pulvinar organs , to a greater or less degree , into masses of a spongy texture , specially fitted to allow of the ready redistribution of fluid contents .
In those cases where it is most highly developed , as in Mimosapudica and Neptunia oleracea , the pulvinar parenchyma iscomposed in greater part of finely porous cells , and in some portion^ contains masses of cells which , in addition to the fine pores , aie 1882.1 Structural Features to , fyc .
269 provided with one or more large ostiola\#151 ; rounded openings with thickened margins .
Here , also , an enormously developed system of very large intercellular spaces is present in the deeper layers , communicating freely on one hand with the cavities of the porous cells and on the other with a system of channels traversing the epidermal tissues of the petiolar organs .
In less developed cases , such as those of the other species treated of , pores alone are present in the cells , ostiola are entirely absent , and the system of intercellular spaces is feebly represented or almost entirely suppressed .
The vascular bundles are in all cases characterised by an abundance of porous elements , both in the bast and very especially in the wood , where a system of large porous ducts almost entirely replaces the spirals of the axial and petiolar tissues .
Another very important structural feature in the contractile organs is the existence of very marked inequalities in the strength of the formed elements of the tissues of different areas , as well as local variations in the amount of protoplasm and specially of chlorophyll corpuscles in different portions of the superficial parenchyma .
In the second section of the paper special attention is drawn to the fact that the maximum nocturnal position appears in all cases to be normally attained at a relatively early period after the onset of darkness , and that , after this , a reverse movement , tending more or less to the resumption of the diurnal position , sets in independent of any renewed incidence of light .
In connexion with this it must be noted that the movements incident on concussion by stimulation tend towards the assumption of the initial nocturnal position .
The third section of the paper contains an attempt to demonstrate the existence of an essential connexion between the special structural and motorial phenomena in individual leaves .
It is pointed out that the occurrence of movement incident on stimulation by concussion is in all these cases associated with the existence of structural arrangements in the contractile organs specially calculated to facilitate redistribution of fluids in the tissues , and that the rapidity and magnitude of the movements in individual cases bear a direct relation to the degree of development of such structural features .
For example , in Mimosa pudica we find very rapid and extensive movements associated with extreme porosity of the cells of the pulvinar parenchyma , and with the presence of a very highly elaborated system of intercellular spaces .
In other cases , such as that of Pithecolobimn Soman , we have more limited and gradual movement along with less elaboration of porosity and diminution of the intercellular system , and in the case of the two species of Cassia we encounter minimum development of the special structural features with minimum development of concussion movements .
This appears to indicate that rapidity and extent of concussion movement may be ascribed rather to structural than func270 Mr. D. D. Cunningham .
the Relation of [ Nov. 16 , tional peculiarities in the tissues .
The movements in such cases do not necessarily imply the presence of protoplasm specially endowed with sensitive and contractile power proportionate to the magnitude and rate of movement ; they rather appear merely to indicate the degree to which structural arrangements permitting of movement are present .
They appear to indicate the degree to which arrangements permitting of massive redistribution of fluids throughout the tissues-at large , as distinguished from mere redistribution of cell contents , such as may occur in any tissue composed of closed elements , are present .
In other words , the movements may be mere indices to the common sensitive and contractile function of vegetable protoplasm , appearing in dependence on certain structural peculiarities of tissue , and not indices to the presence of specially endowed protoplasm .
While , however , structural peculiarities of tissue , according to this view , appear to be essential determinants of the occurrence of movements , the presence of a contractile and sensitive protoplasm is , of course , necessary in order to the actual occurrence of movement\#151 ; in order that the apparatus for redistribution of fluid , and consequent redistribution of tension throughout the tissues , shall be called into play .
In connexion with this , too , it is important to bear clearly in mind that , while porosity of the tissue elements appears in these cases to be their most important structural feature in relation to the occurrence of movement , an extreme porosity of tissue may coexist with an entire absence of movement even where an active protoplasm is still present .
For example , in mature leaves of Lebbek movements are entirely suppressed , although the porosity of tissue remains unimpaired , the abolition of movement being associated with thickening and altered consistence of the cell-walls of the pulvinar parenchyma , increased lignification of the vascular bundles , and excessive cuticularisation of the epidermis .
In order to the normal occurrence of movement there must , then , be an active protoplasm , and conditions of structure not merely providing means for ready transfer of fluid , but allowing of ready alterations in the calibre of the tissue elements .
In connexion with the subject of concussion movements , it is also pointed out that in those cases where a distinct propagation of stimulation from one part to another , as in Mimosa pudica\gt ; occurs , special structural means are present , which may serve as a mechanical substitute for a nervous conducting apparatus .
These means consist of a Continuous system of definite air-passages uniting the intercellular spaces of the different contractile organs , and calculated to serve as channels for the propagation of impulses arising from the sudden injection of liquids from the cells of the contractile tissue into the spaces normally occupied by air .
In regard to nyctitropic movements , it is shown that the parenchyma of the pulvinar organs consists of portions differing from one another { 2882 .
] Structural Features to 271 in mechanical and physiological strength , the mechanically strong ones being characterised by the nature and amount of formed materials , the functionally strong ones by relative excess of protoplasm , and specially of chlorophyll corpuscles .
Every pulvinus , in fact , consists of different portions , in some of which functional , and in others mechanical power is present in excess , and , as from their localisation the functionally and mechanically strong portions are opposed to one ( another , the position of the leaf as determined by the pulvinus must 'vary with the relative strength of these .
But it can be further shown \#166 ; that the mechanically stronger portions constantly tend to cause the 1 leaf to assume the nocturnal position , while the physiologically strong ones act in the reverse direction .
Hence , there must be constantly recurring fluctuations in the relative strength of the different areas , corresponding with the recurring variations in position of the leaves .
But these variations in relative strength must be ascribed rather to changes occurring in the physiologically strong than in the mechanically strong portions of tissue , to elevations and depressions of strength connected with functional rather than structural conditions .
The functionally stronger areas , accordingly , must be regarded as constantly becoming relatively strqnger diurnally and weaker nocturnally , ; .and this recurring fluctuation of strength may be fairly ascribed to j variations in tension , due to variations in the absorption of liquids connected with the specific diurnal functional activity of the protoplasmic elements of the tissues , and specially of the chlorophyll corpuscles under the influence of light .
When the varying kinds and degrees of nyctitropic movements exhibited by the leaves of the individual species at various stages of their development are compared with the coexisting structural features , additional evidence is found of the essential dependence of the former on the latter .
The positions of the leaves in the bud and at later stages , and the assumption and persistence of special movements , are clearly related to the varying degrees of development and the condition of particular portions of the contractile organs .
The phenomenon of reverse movement towards the diurnal position during the latter portion of the night , and independent of any renewed incidence of light is not necessarily opposed to a belief in inequalities !
of functional activity and tension of particular areas of the pulvinar tissues under the influence of light as the essential cause of nyctitropic movements .
The nocturnal reversion may be ascribed to another agency than a rise in functional distension independent of light .
It may arise from alterations in relative tension of the different portions of tissue due to differences in structure .
Those areas in which diurnal functional activity and the incident increased absorption and tension must attain a maximum are also those in which the greatest facilities for the redistribution of fluids are provided by the nature of the 272 Mr. W. Gardiner .
On Continuity of the [ Nov. 16 structure .
Granting that light is the cause of distension proportionate to functional activity and in excess of the passive properties of the tissue , the pulvinar tissues throughout during the incidence of light will contain a functional excess of liquid , and the withdrawal of light will lead to a general diminution of distension\#151 ; the non-illumi-nated tissues parting with the functional excess of fluid , and retaining merely the amount proportional to their diminished activity .
But those portions of tissue providing the greatest facilities for redistribution of fluids must , other things being alike , tend most rapidly to arrive at their passive condition of tension .
In the pulvini , then , it is quite possible that those portions of tissue which are characterised by excessive diurnal activity and functional distension may attain their passive condition sooner than the others do , due to their respective structural peculiarities .
But from the period at which the one part of the pulvinus has attained its passive condition until the other has also done so , a continuous alteration in their relative tensions must take place .
Those portions of tissue which tend to the assumption of 1 the diurnal position will , according to this , on the onset of darkness , | rapidly attain their maximum relative weakness , and after this will i become relatively stronger until the , opposing portions have also arrived at their passive condition of tension .
An early development of the maximum nocturnal position , and a subsequent reversion towards the diurnal one , such as actually occurs , might therefore be looked for on a priori grounds .
Nocturnal reversion may probably in great measure he thus explained , but , as indeed in the case of other movements , other factors such as variations in the absolute j weight and consequent leverage of various parts of the leaves con- j nected with variations in amount of respiration and assimilation no doubt come more or less into play .
IY .
" On the Continuity of the Protoplasm in the Motile Organs of Leaves .
" By Walter Gardiner , B.A. , late Scholar of Clare College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received November 11 , 1882 .
In a preliminary note published in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , " for October , 1882 , I stated that I had succeeded in demonstrating that the continuity of the protoplasm of adjacent cells in the pulvinus of Mimosa pudica was maintained by protoplasmic filaments , which passed through pits in the cell wall .
1 have since then shown that the same occurs in Robinia and Amiria In Phaseolus the connexion is much less pronounced , and as yet I

