1873 .
] On the Action of Electricity on Gases .
483 cases as those just named seem to show that a weak constructive energy has a great tendency to give rise to results analogous to those due to one of low type .
If this conclusion should be confirmed by further research , it would be an important fact in connexion with the theory of evolution , since it would show that , as in the organization of animals , where development is arrested , there is a more or less permanent continuance of a lower type of structure , so in plants there is a permanent continuance of a lower type of colouring .
Conclusion .
Such , then , is a general account of the present state of what I have named comparative vegetable chromatology .
I cannot but feel that it is very incomplete , both in compass and in detail , and that much remains to be learned respecting nearly every thing connected with it .
Not only are the natural objects requiring careful study very numerous and often difficult to obtain in a proper condition , but , as will have been seen , several new questions are most intimately connected with my subject\#151 ; questions of great interest in connexion with optics and chemistry , which would probably never have been raised if it had not been for their relation to the facts I have described .
There are indications of other general questions which have not yet been fairly examined , and , in fact , the whole subject must be looked upon as being quite in its infancy .
At the same time I trust that what I have described will be sufficient to show that the nature and relative proportion of the various colouring-matters in plants must have some very important signification , and that a more complete knowledge of comparative vegetable chromatology may be expected to throw much light on the development of plants , and enable us to examine some of the most fundamental questions in biology from a new and independent point of view .
The subject is also interesting in other respects .
The storing up of the energy of the sun 's rays in the various compounds formed by plants is probably so intimately connected with the optical and chemical properties of some of their coloured constituents , that the further extension of such inquiries as I have described may possibly assist in clearing up this very difficult and yet most important problem .
XXIII .
" On the Action of Electricity on Gases.\#151 ; No. II .
On the Electric Decomposition of Carbonic-Acid Gas .
" By Sir B. C. Brodie , Bart. , D.C.L. , E.R.S. , late Waynflete Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received June 19 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) In my previous experiments the maximum amount of ozone obtained by the action of electricity upon pure oxygen passed through the induction-tube of W. Siemens wras about 20 per cent. , an amount which , under 484 On the Action of Electricity on Gases .
[ June 19 , the conditions of the experiment , could not be exceeded .
It occurred to me as possible to replace the 80 per cent , of oxygen unaffected by the action of the electricity by an indifferent gas , and thus to effect the complete conversion of oxygen into ozone .
This idea was the starting-point of the following investigation .
When pure and dry carbonic-acid gas is subjected in the induction-tube to the electric a.ction , a certain proportion of the gas is decomposed into carbonic oxide and oxygen , a portion of which appears in the form of ozone .
The presence of this ozone may be detected by its odour and the characteristic oxidations produced by it .
It was a point of fundamental importance to determine whether the ozone thus generated was the same in kind as that formed by the action of electricity on pure oxygen , and whether the oxidations referred to were exclusively due to it ; for it was quite conceivable that under the peculiar circumstances of the experiment other substances capable of producing similar oxidizing effects might be formed .
Now , in the investigation before referred to , I had discovered certain quantitative reactions of ozone by which this substance is discriminated from all other known gases , and by which its presence may be detected and its quantity estimated .
The electrized carbonic-acid gas was examined by the aid of these reactions .
When the electrized gas was passed through a solution of hyposulphite of soda , it was found to undergo a diminution in volume equal in amount to twice the " iodine-titre " of the gas , the mean of twelve experiments giving for this value 1*9 , the " titre " being 1 .
The oxidation also effected in the solution of hyposulphite of soda was equal to three times the " titre " of the gas , the mean of a set of five experiments giving for this value , according to one method of estimation , 2*72 , and according to a second and more exact method 3*01 .
Again , the oxidation effected by the electrized gas in a solution of protochloride of tin was equal to three times the " titre " of the gas , the value found as the mean of six experiments being 2*77 .
In two experiments also , in which both the oxidation and contraction were respectively estimated , 2*75 and 2*69 were the values found for the oxidation , and 1*9 and 1*8 the values found for the contraction , the " titre " of the gas being in all cases assumed as 1 .
These experiments conclusively demonstrate the identity of the ozone formed by the action of electricity upon carbonic-acid gas with the ozone similarly generated from pure oxygen .
Various experiments were instituted with the view of ascertaining the conditions most favourable to the conversion of a large proportion of this oxygen into ozone .
The conclusion at which I arrived was that the greatest proportion of ozone in relation to the total oxygen was produced when a rapid current of dry carbonic-acid gas was acted upon at a low temperature by electricity of feeble tension .
When these conditions were realized , it was found that per cent , of the total oxygen Presents .
1873 .
] eliminated in the induction-tube by the decomposition of the carbonic-acid gas could readily be converted into ozone , but that it was difficult to pass this limit .
This amount corresponds with the formation of a gas constituted of ozone and oxygen in the proportion of two units of ozone to one unit of oxygen , the matter of the oxygen being thus distributed 2|3 + \#163 ; 2 .
In several experiments , nevertheless , this limit was considerably exceeded ; and a table is given of nine experiments , in which the amount per cent , of ozone ranged from a minimum of 76-6 per cent , to a maximum of 85'5 per cent. This latter amount corresponds with a gas constituted of ozone and oxygen in the proportion of four units of ozone to one of oxygen , thus 4\#163 ; 3 + $a .
In this case the ratio of the total oxygen present to the titre of the gas is 3-5 ; if the whole oxygen were converted into ozone , the value of this ratio would be 3 .
These experiments , taken in connexion with those described in my previous communication , leave no room for reasonable doubt as to the composition of the unit of ozone , which is the triad form of the element oxygen , and is to be symbolized as \#163 ; * , an hypothesis henceforth to be regarded as conclusively demonstrated .
This remarkable discovery has many important bearings upon chemical theory , especially in relation to the problem elsewhere raised by me of the true nature of the elemental bodies and the constitution of the unit of the element chlorine , which ozone so closely resembles in its chemical properties , and which is also a triad element symbolized as a\2 .
Presents received May 29 , 1873 .
Transactions .
Berlin :\#151 ; Kon .
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Monats-bericht .
Nov. , Dec. 1872 ; Jan. 1873 .
8vo .
18/ 3 .
The Academy .
Birmingham :\#151 ; Institution of Mechanical Engineers .
Proceedings .
1872 , 30 , 31 July , Part 2 ; 31 October .
1873 , 23 January .
8vo .
1872-73 .
The Institution .
Buffalo :\#151 ; Society of Natural Sciences .
Bulletin .
Vol. I. No. 1 .
8vo .
1873 .
' The Society .
Christiania :\#151 ; Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet .
Aarsberetning for Aaret 1871 .
8vo .
1872 .
On the Rise of Land in Skandinavia , by S. A. Sex .
4to .
1872 .
On some remarkable forms of Animal Life from the Great Deep off the Norwegian Coast , by G. O. Sars .
4to .
1872 .
Carcinologiske Bidrag til Norges Fauna , by G. O. Sars .
Andet Hefte .
4to .
1872 .
( 2 copies .
) Die Pflanzenwelt Nor-wegens , ein Beitrag sir Natur- und Culturgeschichte Nord-Europas von F. C. Schiibeler .
4fo .
1873 .
Forekomster af Kise i Visse Skifere i Norge , af A. Ilelland .
4to .
1873 .
De Skandi-

