On the Fire-damp of Coal Mines , and on Methods of lighting the Mines so as to prevent its Explosion .
By Sir H. Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read November 9 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 1 .
] The great sources of fire-damp in coal mines are blowers or fissures from which currents of this inflammable gas issue in considerable quantities and for a long series of years ; but there is also a certain quantity produced by the workings .
The author was informed by Mr. Hodgson , that if a cask be filled with a quantity of recently pounded coal , and a small aperture be made in it , inflammable gas will issue from the aperture .
In several specimens of fire-damp which the author has analysed , the inflammable part was the same in all ; in some instances mixed with a small quantity of common air , in others with azote and carbonic acid .
The purest contained only --th of atmospheric air .
One measure of this gas required nearly two measures of oxygen for its combustion , and formed nearly one measure of carbonic acid .
Sulphur heated in this gas decomposed it , forming sulphuretted hydrogen , and precipitating charcoal .
This gas , when mixed with chlorine , does not combine by exposureto light ; so that it appears to contain neither olefiant gas nor hydrogen , and seems to be the same as the inflammable gas of marshes , or pure carburetted hydrogen .
When this gas is mixed with atmospheric air , it infltames by a lighted taper ; but unless the quantities are duly proportioned , the inflammation is too slow to be accompanied with sound .
The combustion appeared to be most sudden when there were about 7 or 8 parts of air to 1 of the gas .
When 1 of the gas is mixed with 15 or 16 of air , the candle burns with an enlarged flame , which does not extend to the whole quantity , and the same phenomenon occurs when the gas constitutes no more than , th part of the mixture .
The author next made trial of the degree of heat necessary for the combustion of this gas , which in fact is difficult to ignite , for even the electric spark will not explode a mixture containing 5 parts of air to 1 of the gas ; but when the air is increased as far as 6 to 1 , or nearer to the most explosive proportion , then it does take fire by the electric spark .
Even the most explosive mixture will not take fire from well burned charcoal , nor by iron heated to any degree short of actual combustion .
But on the contrary , hydrogen whether simple or sulphuretted , olefiant gas , or carbonic oxide , may each be set on fire very readily by all these means ; and hence the gas procured by distillation from coal is liable to be fired by ignited iron or charcoal , in consequence of the olefiant gas which it contains along with the carburetted hydrogen in the first stage of the process of distillation , and on account of the carbonic oxide and hydrogen which it contains in the latter stages of its production .
Since the fire-damp of coal mines is free from these admixtures , it might be possible to light a mine by means of a charcoal fire , if free from flame , which is necessary for the ignition of the gas .
The method , however , which the author proposes , is not dependent on this property , but upon the supply of air to a lamp employed for that purpose being limited , in such a manner that the lamp will be extinguished by impurity of the air before an explosion can take place .
If a lighted lantern , in the bottom of which there is only a small aperture just sufficient for its supply , be inserted in a mixture of common air , with about -eth of fire-damp , the flame first appears feeble , next enlarges , and then is uniformly extinguished .
In the lantern here proposed for coal mines , a chimney is added of such length as to prevent any communication from the enlarged flame upwards with the external air ; and the opening below is designed to be at a fixed distance from the flame , by using oil lamps instead of candles .
As an additional security in some cases , the author conceives it may be useful to add valves at the apertures , which may be made to shut by a thermometric spring when the heat is increased by enlargement of the flame .
Beside the foregoing , which the author terms the safe lantern , he has constructed two others on the same principle with that proposed by Dr. Clanny , and described in a late volume of our Transactions : but as that of Dr. Clanny has been found objectionable , not only on account of manual labour and constant attention necessary in working the bellows , but also on account of its size , those now proposed are of smaller dimensions , one with a pair of small bellows , and the other with a syringe ; but both of these , like the steel mill , require a person to work them constantly , and will probably be superseded by the simple construction first described .

