1888 .
] On the Physiology of the Tnvertehrata .
325 Observations , \amp ; c. ( continued ) .
Glasgow:\#151 ; Mitchell Library .
Report .
1887 .
8vo .
Glasgow 1888 .
The Library .
Guatemala:\#151 ; Direccion General de Estadfstica .
Inform .
1887 .
8vo .
Guatemala 1888 .
The Office .
India:\#151 ; Geological Survey .
Memoirs ( Palaeontologia Indica .
) Ser. 13 .
Yol .
I. Part 7 .
4to .
Calcutta 1887 .
The Survey .
June 21 , 1888 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
An Address to the Qneen , expressing sympathy with Her Majesty and with her daughter , the Empress of Germany , on the death of the Emperor , was read from the Chair .
Colonel Alexander Ross Clarke , Professor Alfred George Greenhill , and Professor John Henry Pointing were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Further Researches on the Physiology of the Invertebrate " By A. B. Griffiths , Ph. D. , F.R.S. ( Edin .
) , F.C.S. ( Lond. and Paris ) , Principal and Lecturer on Chemistry and Biology , School of Science , Lincoln ; Member of the Physico-Chemical Society of St. Petersburg .
Communicated by Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 25 , 1888 .
I. The Renal Organs of the The digestive apparatus of Z Jr asterrubens ( one of the Asteridea ) is briefly described as follows :\#151 ; The capacious mouth , found upon the under side , leads into a short oesophagus , which opens into a wider sacculated stomach with thin distensible walls .
There are five large stomach sacs ; each of these is situated in a radial position and passes into the base of the corresponding ray .
Each sac or pouch is kept in its place by two retractor muscles fixed to the median ridge of the ray , which lie between the two ampullae or water-sacs .
Parsing Dr. A. B. Griffiths .
[ June 21 , towards the aboral side , the stomach forms the well-known pentagonal " pyloric sac .
" The pyloric sac gives off five radial ducts , each of which divides into two tubules bearing a number of lateral follicles , whose secretions are poured into the pyloric sac and intestine .
The author has proved the nature of their secretion to be similar to that of the pancreatic fluid of the Yertebrata ( ' Edinburgh , Roy .
Soc. Proc. .
, No. 125 , p. 120 ) .
Recently , the secretion found in the five pouches of the stomach ( of ) has been submitted to a careful chemical and microscopical examination .
With a quantity of the secretion , obtained from a large number of starfishes , the following experiments were performed :\#151 ; 1 .
The clear liquid from these sacs was treated with a hot dilute solution of sodium hydrate .
On the addition of pure hydrochloric acid , a slight flaky precipitate was obtained , after standing seven and a half hours .
These flakes when examined beneath the microscope ( 6-in .
obj .
) were seen to consist of various crystalline forms , the predominant forms being those of the rhomb .
On treating the secretion alone with alcohol rhombic crystals are deposited , which are soluble in water .
When these crystals are treated with nitric acid and then gently heated with ammonia , reddish-purple murexide is obtained , crystallised in microscopic prisms .
2 .
Another method was used for testing the secretion .
It ( the secretion ) was boiled in distilled water and evaporated carefully to dryness .
The residue obtained was treated with absolute alcohol and filtered .
Boiling water Was poured upon the residue , and to the aqueous filtrate an excess of acetic acid was added .
After standing some hours , crystals of uric acid were deposited and easily recognised by the chemico-microscopical tests mentioned above .
The above alcoholic filtrate was tested for urea .
First of all , the alcoholic solution was diluted with distilled water , and boiled over a water-bath until all the alcohol had vaporised .
The warm aqueous solution ( A ) remaining was now tested for urea , in the following manner:\#151 ; ( a. ) On the addition of a solution of mercuric nitrate to a portion of the above solution , no white precipitate was obtained .
( 6 .
) To another portion of the solution ( A ) , a solution of sodium hypochlorite was added .
No bubbles of nitrogen were disengaged .
( c. ) No crystals of urea nitrate were formed in a small quantity of the solution ( A ) [ concentrated by evaporation ] after the addition of nitric acid .
( d. ) The distillation of a small quantity of the solution ( A ) with pure sodium carbonate , in a chemically clean Wurtz 's flask attached to a small Liebig 's condenser , failed to produce in the distillate any coloration with Nessler 's reagent .
1888 .
] On the Physiology of the Invertehrata .
The above tests clearly prove the entire absence of urea in the secretion nnder examination .
No guanin or calcium phosphate could be detected in the secretion , although the author has found the latter compound as an ingredient in the renal secretions of the Cephalopoda and the Lamellibranchiata Edinburgh , Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 14 , p. 230 ) .
Prom this investigation , the isolation of uric acid proves the renal function of the five pouches of the stomach of the Asteridea .
II .
The Salivary Glands of Sepia officinalis and Patella vulgata .
The author has already made a study of the nephridia and the so-called " livers " in both these forms of the Invertebrata ( see the memoirs , loc. cit. ) .
Since then he has studied the chemico-physiological reactions of the secretion produced by the salivary glands of the cuttle-fish and the limpet , these organisms representing two important orders of the Mollusca .
( 1 .
) Sepia officinalis .
There are two pairs of salivary glands in Sepia officinalis .
The posterior pair , which are the largest , lie on either side of the oesophagus .
The secretion of the posterior glands is poured into the oesophagus , while the secretion of the smaller anterior pair of glands passes directly into the buccal cavity .
A quantity of the secretion was extracted by using several freshly killed cuttle-fishes .
It was alkaline to test-papers .
A portion of the secretion was added to a small quantity of starch , the starch being converted into glucose sugar in 15 minutes .
The presence of glucose was proved by the formation of red cuprous oxide by the action of Fehling 's solution .
The soluble zymase ( ferment ) contained in the secretion ( which is capable of causing the hydration of starch ) , was isolated by precipitating the secretion with dilute normal phosphoric acid , adding lime-water and then filtering .
The precipitate produced was dissolved in distilled water and reprecipitated by alcohol .
This precipitate converts starch into glucose sugar .
When a drop of the clear secretion is allowed to fall into a beaker containing dilute acetic acid , stringy flakes of mucin are easily obtained .
The presence of mucin was confirmed by several well-known testa .
Another portion of the secretion was distilled ( with the utmost care ) with dilute sulphuric acid , and to the distillate ferric chloride solution was added , which gave a red colour , indicating the presence of sulphocyanates .
The inorganic constituent , as far as the author could make out , 328 On the Physiology of the lnvertebrata .
[ June 21 consists only of phosphate of calcium .
No calcium carbonate could be detected .
There is much in favour of the supposition that the in these secretions is produced as the result of the action of nerve-fibres ( from the inferior buccal ganglion ) upon the protoplasm of the epithelium cells of the glands .
The author intends to examine various organs in other genera and species of the Decapoda , especially those inhabiting the Japanese seas .
( 2 .
) Patella The two salivary glands of Patella are well-marked and situated anteriorly to the pharynx , lying beneath the pericardium on one side and the renal and anal papillae on the other .
They are of a yellowish-brown colour and give off four ducts .
The secretion of these glands was examined by the same method applied to the salivary glands of Sepia officinalis , and with similar results .
The following table l'epresents the constituents found in the salivary secretions of the two orders of the Mollusca already investigated:\#151 ; Cephalopoda .
Gasteropoda .
( \lt ; a. ) Dibranchiata .
( a. ) Pulmogaster-opoda.# ( ib. ) Branchio-gasteropoda .
Soluble diastatic ferment ... ... . .
present present present Mucin present . .
present Sulpbocyanates. . . .
present ?
present Calcium phosphate .
present ?
present Investigations indicate that the salivary glands of the Cephalopoda and Gasteropoda are similar in physiological function to the salivary glands of the Yertebrata .
* 'Edinburgh , Eoy .
Soc. Proc , , ' vol. 14 , p. 236 .

