78 On the Iron Flame Spectrum and those of Sun-spots and Lower-type Stars .
By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. ( Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
) In 1897 I announced to the Royal Society* that the lines in the spectra of the metallic elements might be separated into two series , one seen best and sometimes alone in the hotter stars , and when higher temperature and electric energy were employed , these I termed " enhanced lines " ; the other set , not visible in the hotter stars , but in stars of the solar type , and seen best with lower degrees of heat and electric energy in the laboratory , were referred to as " arc lines .
" In a previous paper , published in 1904 , t I pointed out that the similarity of spot spectra and that of Arcturus depended upon the equality in temperature of the vapours existing in these celestial light sources .
At this time it was held by Prof. Hale and his colleagues , who had studied and published^ in detail the lines in the spectra of lower-type stars , that the occurrence of spot lines in these spectra indicated the presence on such stars of many spots like those on the sun .
In a later publication , however , they stateS that their recent work has led them to the opinion that the comparatively low temperature of these stars offers the simplest explanation of the observations .
It followed naturally that the enhanced lines , representing a higher degree of temperature , or greater electrical excitement , which I showed|| exist almost alone in some of the high temperature stars , such as ol Cygni , should , in the spectra of sun-spots and lower-type stars , be weakened .
That this is so has been noted by FowlerlT and by Mitchell.** It seemed important to consider as a third term the spectrum given by the comparatively low temperature of the oxy-hydrogen flame and see how the lines in this spectrum behave in the spectra of sun-spots and lower-type stars .
In connection with some researches on meteorite spectra in 1887 , many * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1897 , vol. 60 , p. 475 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , J 1904 , vol. 74 , p. 53 .
J ' The Spectra of Stars of Secchi 's Fourth Type ' ( The Decennial Publications , Chicago University , 1903 ) .
S 'Ast .
Phys. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 24 , p. 185 .
|| 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1899 , vol. 64 , p. 322 .
IT 'Monthly Notices , ' 1906 , vol. 61 , p. 361 .
** 'Ast .
Phys. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 24 , p. 83 .
On Iron Flame Spectrum , etc. photographs of oxy-coal-gas flame spectra\#151 ; iron amongst the number\#151 ; were taken with low dispersion .
I gave a short list of lines in the flame spectrum of iron in a paper* submitted to the Royal Society in that year .
The wave-lengths of these lines were necessarily given only approximately , so for this present enquiry it has been considered necessary to obtain the oxy-hydrogen spectrum of iron with much greater dispersion and showing more detail .
The 3-inch Cooke spectrograph has been used for this purpose , the source of heat being an oxy-hydrogen blow-pipe flame .
This spectrum , the lines of which are in course of tabulation , shows many lines which do not appear to have been previously recorded in the flame spectrum .
Hartley in 1894 published a record of the lines !
occurring in the oxy-hydrogen flame spectrum of iron .
A comparison of his record with that obtained from the Kensington photograph shows that many lines occurring in the latter were not recorded by Hartley , and there are numerous discrepancies in wave-length between the two sets .
This is probably due to the fact that much less dispersion was used by Hartley .
It is found that the iron flame lines which occur in the region covered by Hale 's sun-spot maps are , in general , similarly affected .
They show 3xtensive winging in the spot spectrum rather than an increase in the intensity of the line in passing from Fraunhoferic to sun-spot spectrum .
It has been noted by Adams , { in connection with his work on the spectra of the electric arc core and flame , that the lines relatively much stronger in the flame of the arc are those most affected in sun-spots .
The majority of these pronounced " flame of arc " lines exist in the oxy-hydrogen flame spectrum .
By the kindness of Dr. Glazebrook , Director of the National Physical Laboratory , I was enabled to arrange for Dr. H. A. Harker and Mr. 0 .
P. Butler to take several photographs of the furnace spectrum of iron .
For this they used one of the large electric resistance-tube furnaces which have recently been installed at the Laboratory .
On comparing these with the oxy-hydrogen flame spectrum , it is found that the lines which exist at the lowest temperature of the furnace are just those which occur in the oxy-hydrogen flame .
At the higher temperatures employed in the furnace , in addition to the lines just referred to , some of the lines seen in the arc appear ; but here again the flame lines are relatively strong as compared with the other lines .
The behaviour of these lines in passing from the solar spectrum to that of Arcturus and a Orionis has been studied .
This , however , cannot be done in * 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1887 , vol. 43 , p. 120 .
t 4 Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , vol. 185 , p. 199 .
f 4 Ast .
Phys. Journ. , ' 1909 , vol. 30 , p. 112 .
On Iron Flame Spectrum , etc. the same detail as in sun-spots , on account of the very much smaller dispersion of the stellar photographs , and consequent bunching of groups of lines of which the individual components can easily be seen in the case of spot spectra .
In the more refrangible part of the spectrum , roughly from XX 4330 to 4000 , the flame lines appear to be mainly unaffected in passing from the solar spectrum to that of Arcturus .
In the a Orionis spectrum in the same region there is too much absorption to make a satisfactory comparison .
In the region from XX 4330 to 4500 the evidence tends to show that most of the lines are strengthened both in Arcturus and u Orionis .
Owing to the difficulty previously referred to of separating the flame lines in stellar spectra from neighbouring lines possibly due to other elements , the strengthening of the flame lines in these stellar spectra cannot be definitely established until stellar photographs of much greater dispersion are available .
The reduction of the lines in the flame spectrum and the comparison of the lines in the laboratory and stellar photographs has been done by Mr. F. E. Baxandall .
The photograph of the flame spectrum used in this enquiry was taken by Mr. W. E. Eolston .
I have already referred to Mr. Butler 's part in the work .

