]\gt ; 5 The in the due to By P. W. IDGE , lI .
Sc. , Government esearch and Jacob Joseph Scholar , Victoria College , Wellington , New Zealand .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received April 2\mdash ; Read Jume 26 , 1913 .
) The work to be here considered is a continuation of a previous investigation by Prof. Laby and the present author , which the existence of fluctuations in the ionisation due to -rays from radium was demonstrated .
In the present paper the lantitative measurement of this fluctuation is described , its relation to the theory of -rays investigated .
At the present time two theories exist for the explanation of the Pontgen and -rays ( the two radiations exhibit so many properties in common that they are arded as phenomena differing only in degree ) , viz. , the pulse and entity theories .
According to the former , the rays are conceived as propagated from the source , with a continuous wave front , while the latter theory includes the corpuscular form of Brag , the pulse in a tube of force , or bnudle , theory of Sir J. J. Thomson , and the quantum form postulated by Planck and Stark .
In any of these last theories the disturbance has a discontinuous wave front and is ated from the source along a line .
Since both and -rays show many points of resemblance , on the hand , to and -rays , and , on the other , to light , it becomes of import- ance to investi their exact nature .
More especially is this so in view of the connection that has been recently demonstrated between -rays in the phenomena of fluorescence , reflection , and possibly of diffraction .
The possibility of discriminating between the two theories mentioned by the fluctuation in the ionisation due to -rays was pointed out Prof. and by von Schweidler , the experiments here described { leterlnine how the fluctuation varies with the ionisation:\mdash ; ( 1 ) When the solid angle of the rays used is valiel .
( 2 ) When the used in the ionisatiou vessel is changed .
absolute fluctuation in the number of ions fol.lned per second in the T. H. Laby and P. W. Burbidge , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , vol. 86 , p. 333 .
In au application made , in 1908 , to the Royal Society for a grant towards.the research . .
von Schweidler , ' Phys. Zeit 1910 , vol. 11 , p. 225 .
Mr. P. W. Burbidge .
ionisation vessel , i.e. , , has been evaluated by means of the relation established by Dr. N. B. Campbell* where is the mean square deviation in millimetres of the of the fibre of the electrometer used from its mean position , is the capacity of the system in centimetres , is the resistance in E.S.U. between the fibre , etc. , and the earthed surroundings , is the sensitiveness measured in millimetres per E.S.U. of voltage , is the elementary in .
on an ion .
The present communication contains:\mdash ; ( 1 ) A note on the experimental ements .
( 2 ) An account of the method of evaluating , involving the measurement of , and 3 ) A discussion of the results in the light of the theory developed .
( 4 ) A criticism of some results on the same subject obtained by Dr. Meyer , of Aachen .
As these experiments will be continued the theory of them is only very briefly discussed in this communication .
jrimental A Most of the apparatus used in this work has already been described , the essential parts , the electrometer and he ionisation vessel , the same as were used before .
It was found necessary to make several alterations and additions .
The general scheme is shown in fig. 1 .
A Bronson resistance was connected to the fibre of the electrometer .
Some conductor , by which charges acquired by the central electrode of the ionisation vessel can leak away , is essential to enable the fluctuation to be evaluated .
This previously existed in the insulation leak , which arises from the radium acting on the air surrounding the wire connecting the central electrode to the electrometer .
A Bronson resistance was added as an additional conductor in order that the resistance not vary inversely as the ionisation in the can .
The resistance consisted of two brass plates , the lower .
coated with black uranium oxide , and the upper being connected to the fibre of the electrometer and air-insulated ( see fig. 2 ) .
The resistance so obtained was of the order of ohms , and the fluctuations arising from its introduction , * N. R. Campbell , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc 1909 , vol. 15 , p. 117 ; 1910 , vol. 15 , p. 310 ; and ' Phys. Zeit 1910 , vol. 11 , p. 826 .
Laby and Burbidge ( loc. cit Compare figs. 1 , 4 , 6 , 7 in this earlier paper .
The ionisation vessel had top and bottom of 2 mm. , sides of mm. tin-plate , back and front and fittings of mm. aluminium .
The in the due to as shown in the photographic records , vere small enough to be quite rlioible .
FIG. 1.\mdash ; Ionisation vessel , string electrometer and Bronson resistance .
FIG. 2.\mdash ; Bronson resistance .
The Source of \mdash ; The screen surrounding the 5 mgrm .
of radium was increased so as to cut off all -rays .
As determined experimentally the thickness for this was mm. of aluminium ; the equivalent thickness actually used was mm. , a thickness through which , ca]culating on the Mr. P. W. Burbidge .
exponential law of absorption , only per cent. of the fastest -rays could penetrate .
The photogrrecording apparatus was modified somewhat by the use of an extension to the bellows of the camera so that the movement of the fibre in the direction of the optic axis was not so detrimental to the sharp focus of the image , and by improvements to secure a uniform motion of the photographic film , as shown in fig. 3 .
REDUCING CEARINC FIG. ving mechanism for photographic film .
A. Weight to keep film in tension .
B. Weight giving constant resistance .
C. Rubber roller round which film passes , driven through reduction gearing by A.C. motor .
xsurement of the Fluctuatio The relation is true provided that the arithmic decrement of the motion of the fibre is large compared to ; this condition is amply fulfilled by the string electrometer used .
Since and are constant under the conditions used , in considering the variation of , the corrections and alone enter .
The justification of the latter is obvious , but the former has been called iu question and been proved not to hold for the quadrant electrometer .
* For the leaf electroscope , however , the correction has been justified and applies probably even more exactly in the case of the string electrometer .
The evaluation of *E .
Meyer , ' Phys. Zeit 1912 , vol. 13 , p. 73 .
Campbell , 'Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc 1910 , vol. 16 , p. 310 .
The Fluctuation in the Ionisation due to from this expression requires the values of , and to be known .
These were determined as follows:\mdash ; was measured by finding the time required for a charge to leak through it .
Consider the theory of such a leak .
Tf mean potential on the central system in an interval of units ; mean current ; , in the infinitesimal time the fall in potential thus produced ; and capacity of system then The measurement consists in observing the time of leak of a charge over a given range of potential , about a known mean potential , .
In the observations made , volt and on either side .
The accuracy of the method was verified by a measurement of the Bronson resistance alone , first , by allowing the charge to leak from the top plate to earth , and then by up the top plate through the application of a potential to the lower plate .
The two methods gave concordant results .
, the sensitiyeness , was recorded by means of the potentiometer on the films see ; from these it was read in millimetres per volt .
\mdash ; The main part of each experimental observation consisted in otographic records of the variation in the potential ( as shown by the fibre of the electrometer ) of the central electrode .
For this purpose the small contact potential of the Bronson resistance was first neutralised by the application of an equal and opposite potential to the lower plate , and then the tube containing the 5 mgrm .
of radium used was adjusted symmetrically to the two compartments of the ionisation vessel ( see fig. 1 ) .
Equal and opposite potentials of 200 volts were applied to the two plates \mdash ; one in each compartment of the vessel\mdash ; and the ionisations in the gas in these compartments finally adjusted to exact equality by means of a lead screen moved across the front of one .
This adjustment was shown when the fibre , viewed from time to time for about 10 minutes , though varying continually in its , had its mean position approximately coincident with the zero .
The saturation current , with the Bronson resistance in ( which introduced no error ) , was then determined ; this gave the ionisation , and , after the sensiciveness had been adjusted and the photographic apparatus placed in position , the film was set in motion for obtaining the * Measured by method of " " mixtures usin standard cylindrical condenser with a capacity E. S.U. VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; A. Mr. P. V -X ul * .
Burbidge .
The in the lonisation due to record .
The order of events in taking each record ( compare fig. 4 ) , was as follows:\mdash ; Sensitiveness recorded .
Fibre earthed .
Fibre isolated ( radium present ) for 20 minutes .
Fibre earthed .
Sensitiveness recorded .
Fibre isolated ( radium absent ) .
After the completion of the raphic record , the radium was replaced in position , and the resistance determined as stated above .
A typical entry of an observation , film No. 68 , reads as follows:\mdash ; Date , 16.10.12 .
Fibre tension in arbitrary units , Screen ( see below ) .
For the evaluation of on film , the section of it recording the fluctuation was divided into several , usually seven , by the timing nals , and the mean position of the fibre in each determined by the use of a planimeter working from an arbitrary base line .
The mean line for the seven points representing these mean positions was then calculated by a least squares method , and its position ruled on the film .
By using a glass scale , about 120 of the deyiation of the fibre from this mean line were taken .
The mean square of these readings , , was then calculated .
Results .
The table fives the results of the work to date ; many other records have been taken but owing to fnorance of the exact conditions required for evaluation , the records are of little immediate value .
In this table , the screen A is that previously .
of aluminium , mm. of glass and part of the adjustable 2 mm. lead screen .
The italicised values for the total resistance in ohms in the table have been calculated from fairly accurate measurelnents of the Bronson resistance , and Mr. P. W. Burbidge .
Table I. a knowledge ( gained from later measurements ) of the leak in the ionisation vessel and the earth-shielded connections , due to the action of the radium in two positions used ; the most doubtful value is that for Film 66 .
The last four values are more accurate , being directly measured as described above .
The values of the ionisation were taken with the Bronson resistance in , as experiments showed that the ratio of the values in any two so taken was ( within per cent. ) the same as the ratio when the Bronson was not in .
The last column ives the absolute fluctuation , evaluated by means of the formula { given above .
The distance of the radium is given from the front end of the ionisation vessel .
The italicised values of the observed fluctuation have been corrected for the spurious fluctuation in those experiments .
The above table ives the results tabulated in the order they were obtained , and they illustrate the effect of varying the distance of the radium from the ionisation vessel , and varying the gas contained in the vessel .
The expressions connecting the fluctuation and the ionisation derived by Campbell* and von Schweidler have been investigated with the object of deducing what relations are to be expected under iven experimental conditions ; and the results of this examination , together with the theory and assumptions on which they are based , are given in the following table .
full discussion of the theory is not given here for the reasons stated in the introduction .
Table II provides the required theoretical relations between the fluctuatior and the ionisation under the experimental conditions used .
It remains to be seen how the experimental results can be elucidated in this way .
In Campbell , .
cit. E. von Schweidler , loc. cit. , and ' Phys. Zeit 1910 , vol. 11 , p. 614 .
Th in the Ionisation due to -Rays .
Table II.*\mdash ; Relation between the Ionisation and Fluctuation for varying Conditions .
eory umber orays p Table III some of the results are revabulated so as to show the effect on the fluctuation of varying the solid of the rays used .
( 1 ) Effect of Distance of Table III .
The above figures indicate that ; the difference between and is large , and the mean value of the fluctuation ratio , , is sufficiently * The suffixes denote the variation of the quantities with the va1iation of the solid angle of rays or of the gas ionised .
In view of the photographic evidence of C. T. R. Wilson Proc , direct ionisation alone is considered .
Campbell ( ' Phys. Zeit loc. cit. ) has deduced the relations holding for direct ionisation ; they are at variance with our experimental results .
Mr. P. W. Burbidge .
close to the mean value of the ionisation ratio , , to permit of easy distinction between relations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of Table II .
The observations support ( 1 ) and consequently the entity theory of -rays .
( 2 ) Effect of the Gas.\mdash ; Table uuattei)Ratio o Carbon Dioxide and Air .
2 2 2 2 2 Mean Carbon Dioxide and Coal Gas .
Mean Air and Coal Gas .
1.6 The means in the various experiments show that the ratio of the fluctuations is roughly equal to the ratio of the ionisations , but is consistently larger by about the same fraction in each case , e.g. for the three pairs of gases has the values The value of the fluctuation obviously differs greatly from that given by the expression , and thus relation ( 5 ) in Table II , based on the pulse The result for hydrogen is not considered in this table ; the values it gives for the ratio of the fluctuationf ; agree more nearly with the relation , but the degree of agreement varies widely according to the gas taken for comparison .
Since the value of the fluctuation for it is the smallest , consequently constant errors of evaluation would have most effect , and , further , since the coal-gas used contains probably 40 per cent. of hydrogen and shows no such marked departure , it was considered that confirmation of the result was needed before reliance could be placed upon it in deducing theoretical relations .
The in the Ionisation due to -Rays .
theory , does not hold .
To between the relations , ( 3 ) and ( 4)\mdash ; both derived from the entity theory\mdash ; requires a knowledge of the variation for the used of the number of ions formed in the vessel per , while only the ratio of the ionisation is known .
In both sets of experiments , then , the evidence , though not finally conclusive on account of insufficient data , supports decisively the entity theory of -rays .
The result is of interest , as recent experiments tend to demonstrate that -rays , X-rays and are but types of the same phenomena .
If experiments now conducted confirm the above result , an entity theory of light seems a necessary consequence.* Dr. Meyer 's Results .
Since the results obtained above do not with those of Dr. E. Meyer , of Aachen , who has been -rays by somewhat similar methods , it of interest to consider briefly his published results .
In a paper Dr. Meyer 's earliest on this subject was criticised in certain respects ; CampbellS has also advanced some criticism on other points , and the second publication by Dr. is an experimental [ This theoletical part of the paper is criticised by a referee as follows:\mdash ; " " In first place , the particular form of pulse theory which is compared with the entity theo1y is not one which is likely to be maintained .
It is assumed that on this pulse theory the number of -rays made by one -ray in the ionisation chamber is not small , and is larger than the number would be on an entity theory .
A pulse theory , seriously rivalling the entity theory , must suppose the number of -rays made by one -ray in the ionisation chamber to be very small ; and where this is done , such experiments as are made here cannot distinguish between them .
The fluctuations due to variation in the number of -rays entering the chamber are masked by the fluctuation due to variation in the number of -rays made by each -ray .
" " ln the place , when the gas is varied , ought to vary as on either the pulse or entity theory .
It is now clearly established that the ionisation in such a vessel as was used is due to -rays from the walls .
The fluctuations cannot depend on how these were produced , but only on the number of them , and this must be the same on either theory .
In fact , , the number of ions due to a , is proportional to the whole current ; and thus in Table II ( 3 ) is proportional to or to .
This has been overlooked in the endeavour to establish a basis of experimental comparison of the two theories .
" " Such experiments as are described in this paper are unable to decide between the rival theories .
In this respect the author has made no advance on Meyer 's work ; but the criticism of that work is probably just .
The fact that the present results can be interpreted in absolute measure , and shown to be of the order expected , gives theIn a weight much greater than previous experiments Laby and Burbidge , .
cit. E. Meyer , ' Berliner Berichte , ' 1910 , vol. 32 , p. 647 .
Campbell , 'Phys .
Zeit .
cit. E. Meyer , ' Phys. Zeit 1912 , vol. 13 , p. 73 .
Mr. P. W. Burbidge .
refutation of Campbell 's criticism of the method used for measuring the resistance , between the electrometer needle and its earthed surroundings .
No account is taken by Meyer of the point raised by Campbell and von Schweidler ( loc. cit. ) that the experiments , with the theory as then developed and used by him , afforded no decive distinction between the entity and the continuous pulse theories .
In a third publication , results of the previous work are taken as established , and new experiments made to ascertain if , in an ionisation vessel consisting of two similar compartments , there is any connection between the ionisation in the two sides .
His results lead him to assert a connection , but the work seems open to criticism on the grounds : ( 1 ) With the extreme sensitiveness of the electrometer used ( 10,000 mm. per volt ) and the small fluctuations observed ( 2\mdash ; 14 mm due evidence is not given for the accuracy claimed .
( 2 ) It is not clear that the test given by Meyer for spurious fluctuations included the Bronson resistance used ; the experimental conditions would appear to prohibit this .
It is known that the currents in such resistances fluctuate , and since the conductivity of the resistance by Meyer is from five to ten times as large as the one used in the present experiments , the absolute fluctuation due to it would be larger , but the fluctuation due to the radium would be smaller than in these experiments .
Unless the test for spurious fluctuations in an experiment involves all the arrangements used in the ation of the fluctuations , except that the -rays are absent , the experiment is open to criticism .
( 3 ) The correction for the resistance seems doubtful , e.g. in Tables , VIII , etc. , the resistance ( proportional to in his paper ) has almost the same value when the positive ions in both compartments are collected by the central electrode as when a differential method is used , as in our experiments .
It seems obvious that a much smaller resistance is needed in the former case than in the latter , but the ures do not indicate this .
Dr. Meyer concludes:\mdash ; ( 1 ) That one -ray liberates more than one ( 2 ) That a -ray occupies a solid angle not small compared with that occupied by the ionisation vessel ( i.e. a cone with vertical angle ) .
Buchwald on the grounds of Dr. Meyer 's experiments , has calculated that the probable angle of the cone of such a -ray is E. Meyer , 'Ann . .
Phys 1912 , vol. 37 , p. 700 .
Buchwald , ' Ann. .
Phys 1912 , vol. 39 , p. 41 .
The Fluctuation in the due to -Rays .
Summar.1/ I. Photographic records of the fluctuations in the ionisation due to -rays have been obtained , and the value of the absolute fluctuation estimated them .
II .
The fluctuation has been found almost proportional to the ionisation when either the solid angle of rays used or the in the ionisation yessel is varied .
III .
The theory evolved by Campbell has been confirmed ( a ) by the failure of six other methods of evaluation , none of which gave any constant relation between the fluctuation and the ionisation , even when all other conditions were constant , ( b ) by the concordant obtained by using the correction factor based on his theory . .
Using an extension of the theory of von Schweidler and Campbell , it has been found possible to discriminate between the continuous pulse and the entity theories of -rays .
The results appear to lead to the deduction that a -ray is an entity in the sense that it has a discontinuous " " wave-front.\ldquo ; .
The work of Dr. E. Meyer on the structtuie of -rays is briefly reyiewed and criticised .
The Royal Society of London lent the radium used ; this , and a New Zealand Government Research Scholarship , rendered the yation possible .
I wish also to record my gratitude to Prof. Laby the stimulating help he has given throughout the work .
My thanks are also due to Dr. G. W. C. lCaye for reading the proofs of this paper .

