An Extract of a Letter , written March 5 .
1672 by Dr. Thomas Cornelio , a Neapolitan Philosopher and Physician , to John Dodington Esquire , his Majesties Resident at Venice ; concerning some Observations made of persons pretending to be stung by Tarantula 's : English 'd out of the Italian .
SIR NOw the time approaches , that I may send you some Tarantulas .
Mean while I shall not omit to impart unto you , what was related to me , a few days since , by a judicious and unprejudicate person , which is ; That being in the Country of Otranto ( where those Insects are in great numbers , ) there was a man , who thinking himself stung by a Tarantula , showed in his neck a small speck , about which in a very short time there arose some pimples full of a serous humour , and that , in a few hours after , that poor man was sorely asflicted with very violent symptoms , as Syncope 's , very great agitations , giddines of the head , and vomit ; but that without any inclination at all to dance , and without all desire of having any musical instruments , he miserably dyed within two days .
The same person affirmed to me , that all those that think themselves bitten by Tarantula 's , ( except such , as for some ends fain themselves to be so , ) are for the most part young wanton girls , ( whom the Italian writer calls Dolci di sale , ) who by some particular indisposition falling into this melancholy madness , persuade themselves according to the vulgar prejudice , to have been stung by a Tarantula .
And I remember to have observed in Calabria some women , who seized on by some such accidents were counted to be possessed with the Divel ; it being the common belief in that Province , that the greatest part of the evils , which afflict man-kind , proceeds from evil Spirits .
This brings to my mind a terrible evil , which often enough is observed in Calabria , and is called in their language Coccio maligno .
It arises on the surface of the body , in the form of a small speck , of the bigness of a lupin .
It causes some pain , and if it grow not soon red thereupon , it in a very short time certainly kills .
It is the common opinion of those people , that such a distemper befals those only , that have eaten flesh of Animals dead of themselves : which opinion I can from experience affirm to be false .
So it frequently falls out , that of many strange effects , we daily meet with , the true cause not being known , such an one is assigned , which is grounded upon some vulgar prejudice .
And of this kind I esteem to be the vulgar belief of the cause of that distemper , which appears in those that think themselves stung by Tarantulas .
But why should not we rather think , that that distemper is caused by an inward disposition , like that which in some place of Germany is wont to produce that evil , which they call chorea Sti Viti , St. Vite 's dance .
But of this I hope I shall soon be able to write my thoughts more fully , which will , I think , be sufficien to refute that fable of the Taraentula .

