II .
" ' On the Aquiferous and Oviductal Systems in the Lamellibranchiate Mollusks .
" By GEORGE ROLLESTON , M.D. , Lee 's Reader in Anatomy , and CHARLES ROBERTSON , Esq. , Curator of the Museum , Christ Church , Oxford .
Communicated by Dr. ACLAND .
Received January 6 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the authors bring forward two views as to the anatomy of the Lamellibranchiata .
1 .
The first part of the communication is devoted to an exanination of the commonly-received opinion as to the outlet of the ovarian system , and arguments are brought forward to show that the orifices usually supposed to discharge this office are in reality the exhalant orifices of a water-vascular system .
The positive arguments drawn from the way in which fine injections thrown in by these orifices distribute themselves throughout the visceral mass , and from the relative position of orifices acklnowledged to belong to a water-vaseular system in other mollusks , are confirmed by a consideration of the improbability attaching to the old view , which regarded as oviducts in mollusca two canals , which lying onie on either side of the body , yet communicate freely with each other at no great distance from their termination , and which lie far away from the lower segment of the intestinial tube .
The inhalant aquiferous orifices are considered to be indicated by a belt of parasitic animals impacted in the foot tissuLe , as represented in onie of the figures .
2 .
In the second part of the comrlmunicationi , the structures are inidicated which the authors hold to be the true oviducts .
One large band which is seen at the spawning season as a prominent ridge projecting inito the calibre of the lower segment of the intestinal tube , and two smaller ones , which are traceable from the com-mencement of the intestine down to a point where its upper coils are in close proximity to that part of its lower segment where the former banid ends in a club-shaped dilatation , are showin to discharge this ftnction .
The method of dissection to be adopted for the demonstration of these structures is given at some length , and the following arguiments are adduced in support of the view which regards them as oviducts .
A finie injection thrownl into the largest of the bands in question is seen to pass into the ovary , and is recognizable under the microscope as contained within the limitary membrane of its ultimate follicles .
Its distribution , therefore , as detectable at once by the naked eye and by the microscope , contrasts strongly with that of a similajr injection thrown in by either of the aquiierous orifices .
Secoidly : The condition of distention , prominence , and inturmescence of this band , coincides with simnilar conditions in the ovary ; and from an acquaintance with the condition of the branchial marsupiuimi 's contents we are enabled always to predict what will be fouind to be that of this heand .
Thirdly : At periods when ova are being rapidly secreted by the ovary , ova are to be found at all points withini the whole length of these three bands .
The double oviduct at the oral and the single at the anial extremity of the Lainellibranchiata , is what our knowledge of their development would lead us to anticipate ; and( the close connexion of the principal oviduct with that latter outlet , and with the lower segment of the intestinal tube , brings the anatomy of these bivalve mollusks into exact correspondence with that of higher tribes in the same series .
What is said of the ovarian secretion and outlets , applies , mutatis mutandis , to the testicuilar .
The paper is illustrated by drawings takens from dissections of the eommorn fresh-water muscle , Anoclonta Cygnea .

