384 Mr. F. Chambers on Barometric Pressure , fyc .
[ June 19 , Y. " On the Mathematical Expression of Observations of Complex Periodical Phenomena , and on Planetary Influence on the Earth 's Magnetism .
" By Charles Chambers , F.R.S. and F. Chambers .
Received May 26 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The authors propose in this paper to determine , by Bessel 's method , a mathematical expression for a periodical phenomenon from observations which are affected by one or more other periodical phenomena , and to find criteria for judging of the extent to which the expression is affected by these other phenomena : to find also the true period from observations of a single periodical phenomenon of which the period is only approximately known ; or , having found an expression for a period of known approximation to the truth , to find from it the expression for the true period .
In the course of these inquiries , certain ambiguities which affect similarly Bessel 's expression for a single periodic phenomenon and the results here arrived at are remarked upon ; and , finally , the results are applied to determine the nature of periodic planetary phenomena in a particular case .
VI .
" The Diurnal Variations of the Wind and Barometric Pressure at Bombay .
" By F. Chambers .
Communicated by Charles Chambers , F.R.S. , Director of the Colaba Observatory , Bombay .
Received May 26 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to bring to notice a remarkable relation that has been found to exist between the diurnal variations of the wind and the barometer at Bombay .
I The observations made use of are the records of a Robinson 's anemograph during the first three years of its performance , viz. from June 1867 to May 1870 , and the corresponding hourly observations of the barometer and the dry- and wet-bulb thermometer made at the Government Observatory , Bombay .
.* : The mean results for each hour of the day during the whole penod and the mean diurnal variations of each element are tabulated and gr*| phically represented by figures .
The diurnal variation of the wind \#187 ; then investigated , the most influential part of which is attributed to the land- and sea-breezes which blow from E.S.E. and W.N. .
, an ^ shown to follow mainly the same law of progression as the temperature of the air , thus affording confirmatory evidence of the truth of Halley^ theory of the trade-winds as applied to land- and sea-breezes .
Some peculiarities of the curve representing the land- and sea-hreeW* are then pointed out , and these , the writer concludes , are due to the supe

