465 On Certain Phenomena of Inactivation and of Inhibition exhibited by Precipitin Antisera .
By D. A. Welsh , M.A. , B.Sc. , M.D. , Professor of Pathology , and H. G. Chapman , M.D. , B.S. , Demonstrator of Physiology in the University of Sydney .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received April 30 , \#151 ; Read June 13 , 1907 .
) ( From the Physiological and Pathological Laboratories of the University of Sydney .
) General Phenomena of Inactivation and of Inhibition exhibited by Heated Antisera* When a precipitin antiserum , prepared with blood serum or with egg white , is heated to 75 ' C. for 10 or 30 minutes , it loses its power of yielding a precipitate with the homologous protein ( inactivation ) , and it acquires the power , when added in sufficient proportion , of preventing the formation of the precipitate that would otherwise appear when the homologous protein interacts with unheated antiserum ( inhibition ) .
An identical heat exposure does not produce the same degree of inhibitory power in different homologous antisera , the inhibitory capacity being estimated by the amount of unheated antiserum required to elicit a precipitate .
In the majority of the antisera tested , inhibition was complete , that is , no precipitation occurred , when ( a ) 01 c.c. heated antiserum , ( ) 0*1 c.c. unheated antiserum , and ( c ) 0*001 c.c. or 0 005 c.c. homologous protein were allowed simultaneously to interact , or when ( a ) was mixed with either ( b ) or ( for 24 hours before the other ingredient was added .
Inhibition was always complete when the amount of the heated antiserum was three times that of the unheated antiserum , and always incomplete when these proportions were * Our conclusions are based on more than 1000 separate interactions , involving 20 different antisera , about 50 different combinations of heated and unheated antiser having been tested .
The antisera were prepared in the rabbit by intraperitoneal injections of blood serum or of egg white .
The general procedure was the same as that indicated in a previous communication ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , p. 298 , 1906 ) , and most of the interacting substances were employed in a fresh undried condition .
To obviate coagulation , the antisera were diluted with two or four volumes of water before being heated , but this water is not included in the amounts of heated antiserum to which reference is made in the text .
Thus 0*1 c.c. heated antiserum indicates 0*1 c.c. antiserum heated together with two or four volumes of water .
We ascertained that the additional water did not noticeably affect the interaction .
466 Prof. D. A. Welsh and Dr. H. G. Chapman .
[ Apr. 30 , reversed .
Incomplete inhibition was manifested by delay in appearance or by diminution in amount of the precipitate , or by both phenomena .
When complete inhibition was established , it did not cease with lapse of time , nor was it overcome by any excess of homologous protein , but it could be overcome ( that is a precipitate would appear ) on a suitable addition of unheated antiserum , or on a smaller addition of unheated antiserum together with homologous protein .
When , as occasionally happened , 0*1 c.c. heated antiserum was inadequate to prevent precipitation in a mixture of 0*001 c.c. or 0*005 c.c. homologous protein and 0*1 c.c. unheated antiserum simultaneously added , it was invariably also inadequate when allowed to stand in contact with the unheated antiserum for 24 hours before homologous protein was added , but it was frequently adequate to prevent precipitation when allowed to remain in contact with the homologous protein 24 hours before the unheated antiserum was added .
In view of the fact that no excess of homologous protein could overcome any inhibition , it is futile to conclude from such evidence that the heated antiserum antagonises either the homologous protein or the unheated antiserum more than the other .
As a matter of fact , its influence is probably exerted not so much on either of the interacting substances as on the product of their , interaction ( v. infra ) .
Analogous results have been obtained by other observers , notably by Muller , * in respect of lactosera , and by Eisenberg .
t Relation between Inactivation and Inhibition .
On the hypothesis that precipitins constitute , oh Ehrlich 's scheme , receptors of the second order , equipped with a relatively unstable ergophorous and a relatively stable haptophorous affinity , inactivation is produced by destruction of the former , while inhibition is due to retention of the latter alone .
Any factor that would abolish the ergophorous affinity would , ipso facto , render the precipitin inactive and inhibitory , so long as the haptophorous affinity was not thereby damaged .
Precipitin would thus become transformed into precipitoid .
In other words , inactivation and inhibition would be merely different aspects of the same phenomenon , and this is the accepted relationship between them ( Eisenberg , Muller , and others ) .
We have evidence , however , that inactivation and inhibition are separable phenomena , that inactivation does not , in the above circumstances , necessarily imply inhibition , so that the relation between them does not admit of so * Miiller , ' Archiv f. Hygien .
, ' vol. 44 , p. 126 , 1902 .
+ Eisenberg , ' Centralb .
f. Bakt.5 ( Originale ) , vol. 31 , p. 773 , 1902 .
1907 .
] Phenomena exhibited by Precipitin Antisera .
simple a statement .
Thus a precipitin antiserum ( No. 38 ) prepared with hen-egg white , when heated to 70 ' C. for 30 minutes , did not become noticeably inactive or inhibitory .
When heated to 72 ' C. for 10 minutes , it was rendered almost completely inactive , but not noticeably inhibitory .
Exposure to 72 ' C. for 30 minutes produced complete inactivation without , however , any appreciable inhibition .
Further exposure to 75 ' C. of a portion of the antiserum already heated to 72 ' C. for 30 minutes yielded a solution still wholly inactive , but now strongly inhibitory .
We have repeated these observations with concordant results .
It is noteworthy that the conversion of antiserum from the active to the inactive condition appears to be a temperature change rather than a time effect , and that inactivation occurs rapidly at the temperature at which we succeeded in obtaining , in an acidulated solution of a homologous antiserum , a heat coagulum not found in natural rabbit serum.* A second means of effecting a separation of the phenomena of inactivation and of inhibition was accidentally revealed .
Another homologous antiserum ( No. 11 ) , prepared in the rabbit by injections of hen-egg white , had been stored in a dry condition .
At the expiry of 11 months it was found to be still readily soluble in salt solution , but to have become wholly inactive , no trace of precipitate appearing on interaction with homologous protein .
When 0T c.c. of this unheated inactive antiserum solutionf was allowed to interact with an equal volume ( 0T c.c.)of active homologous antiserum ( Nos. 23 and 25 were separately employed ) and with homologous protein , no appreciable inhibition could be detected .
When , however , a triple volume ( 0'3 c.c. ) of the inactive antiserum solution interacted with a single volume ( 0T c.c. ) of the active antiserum in otherwise similar circumstances , the full precipitate was in every instance obtained , but in three out of six tubes its appearance was delayed for about 24 hours .
When it is borne in mind that three volumes ( 0*3 c.c. ) of any antiserum heated to 75 ' C. was invariably found to completely inhibit precipitation when one volume ( 0T c.c. ) of a different but homologous antiserum interacted with homologous protein , it must be admitted that any inhibition effected by the unheated inactive antiserum ( No. 11 ) was uncertain and exceedingly slight .
It is , indeed , possible^ that the occasional delay in the appearance of the full precipitate may have been due to some slight nonspecific inhibition exerted by increased serum concentration .
When , however , the inactive antiserum ( No. 11 ) was heated to 75 ' C. for 30 minutes , it developed a pronounced inhibitory capacity\#151 ; so much so that * Welsh and Chapman , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , p. 309 , 1906 .
t O'l c.c. of the inactive antiserum solution contained O'Ol gramme dried antiserum ( No. 11 ) and was , therefore , roughly equivalent to 0'1 c.c. undried antiserum .
468 Prof. D. A. Welsh and Dr. H. G. Chapman .
[ Apr. 30 , 01 c.c. heated antiserum mixed with homologous protein for 48 hours was able to prevent precipitation when 01 c.c. active antiserum ( No. 23 or No. 25 ) was subsequently added .
The inhibition was constant , but incomplete , when 01 c.c. heated antiserum was mixed with 01 c.c. active antiserum ( No. 25 ) and homologous protein was simultaneously or subsequently added .
The inhibition was complete when 0 2 c.c. heated antiserum interacted with 01 c.c. active antiserum and homologous protein , and was independent of the order in which the substances were added .
Both by heating to 72 ' C. and by spontaneous degeneration , therefore , it was possible to obtain antisera which were wholly inactive and yet not at all or only doubtfully inhibitory , and thus to effect a separation of the phenomena of inactivation and of inhibition .
In both instances , also , heating to 75 ' C. so altered the constitution of the inactive , non-inhibitory antisera , that they came to acquire powerful inhibitory properties .
If inactivation and inhibition were inseparable phenomena , it might be supposed that inactivation was merely a particular manifestation of inhibition , that precipitin was not necessarily altered by heating to 75 ' C. , but that an independent inhibitory substance was developed at that temperature .
Our observations render this supposition untenable .
The mere separation of the phenomena of inactivation and of inhibition might be reconciled with the commonly accepted statement of Ehrlich 's theory of the constitution of precipitins by the twofold assumption of a diminution , followed by an increase , in the combining affinities of the haptophores .
It might , for example , be assumed that an immediate effect of the weakening or destruction of the ergophorous affinities , resulting in inactivation , would be some weakening of the haptophorous affinities also , whereby molecules of the nature of epi-precipitoid , or precipiton , would be produced .
On the analogy of epi-toxoids , or toxons , such epi-precipitoids , or precipitons , having feebler combining affinities than the unaltered precipitin molecules , would be readily evicted by them , and so might give rise to little or no noticeable inhibition of the precipitate .
It would be necessary also to assume that heating to 75 ' C. restored or enhanced the potency of the haptophores , #so that epi-precipitoids were transformed into syn-precipitoids or even into pro-precipitoids , having combining affinities respectively equal to or greater than those of unaltered precipitins .
We do not see how the presence of epi-precipitoid in the inactive , non-inhibitory antisera described by us can be either proved or disproved , unless the occasional doubtful inhibition above noted is to be taken as an indication of its presence .
Other facts , however , render this explanation inadequate .
It has been 1907 .
] Phenomena exhibited by Precipitin Antisera .
469 shown that , after the interaction of 0*001 c.c. or 0*005 c.c. homologous protein and 0*1 c.c. antiserum , the addition of further quantities of antiserum produces a fresh deposit proportional to each added mass of precipitin.* This is strongly suggestive that , after each interaction , unoccupied binding affinities of the homologous protein are available .
Further , if inhibition is produced by the binding of the thermostable haptophorous groups of the heated antiserum to receptors of the protein molecule , it is remarkable that the addition of considerable masses of homologous protein fails to provide receptors for the precipitin groups of the unheated antiserum and to bring to an end the inhibition .
All that we can say is that inactivation and inhibition are separable phenomena , commonly appearing together because of the proximity of their respective temperatures of origin , and depending on substances whose interactions do not admit of so simple an expression as that afforded by the usual statement of Ehrlich 's theory .
Specificity of the Inhibition exercised by Heated Antisera : Phenomena of " Crossed " Inhibition .
The non-appearance of a precipitate in an otherwise effective precipitin interaction is not always due to the same conjunction of chemical and physical factors , and of these factors some exert an inhibitory influence that is altogether non-specific .
But the inhibitory power of heated antiserum is markedly specific , probably not less specific than the reaction of the corresponding unheated antiserum .
The nature of this specificity is best illustrated by a concrete example .
Thus , a heated hen-egg antiserum will prevent the formation of a precipitum between hen-egg albumin and any hen-egg antiserum , but not between ostrich-egg albumin and ostrich-egg antiserum , nor will it have any effect on non-avian precipitin interactions .
The phenomena of " crossed " inhibition are revealed by the fact that heated hen-egg antiserum will inhibit precipitation between hen-egg albumin and ostrich-egg antiserum and between ostrich-egg albumin and any hen-egg antiserum .
Moreover , when ostrich-egg proteins were substituted for the corresponding hen-egg proteins in each of the above experiments , identical results were obtained .
These results may be summarised in the following Table I * Welsh and Chapman , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , p. 305 , 1906 .
Prof. D. A. Welsh and Dr. H. G. Chapman .
[ Apr. 30 , Table I. No. Homologous protein , 0*005 c.c. Active antiserum , | 0*1 c.c. Heated antiserum , 0*1 c.c. Precipitation .
1 Hen-egg white Hen-egg Hen-egg Inhibited 2 Ostrich-egg white Ostrich-egg it Unaffected 3 Horse serum Horse a ff 4 Hen-egg white Ostrich-egg a Inhibited 5 Ostrich-egg white Hen-egg a a 6 Ostrich-egg Ostrich-egg a 7 Hen-egg white Hen-egg a Unaffected 8 Horse serum Horse a a 9 Ostrich-egg white Hen-egg white a Inhibited 10 Hen-egg white Ostrich-egg a it The Nature of inhibition as indicated by the Specific Solubility of Precipitates in Heated Homologous Antisera .
Muller* was the first and , so far as we are aware , the only observer to point out that a precipitate resulting from a precipitin interaction was soluble in the heated antiserum , but his observation had reference only to lactosera .
The possible significance of this phenomenon led us to undertake a more extended series of tests , in order to determine how far this property was possessed by other heated antisera , and how far the capacity for dissolving precipitate might be identified with the capacity for inhibition .
Our experiments gave the following results :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The precipitum formed between hen-egg albumin and hen-egg antiserum is soluble in any hen-egg antiserum heated to 75 ' C. , but not in ostrich-egg antiserum , nor in horse antiserum , similarly heated ; ( 2 ) the precipitum formed between ostrich-egg albumin and ostrich-egg antiserum is soluble in ostrich-egg antiserum heated to 75 ' C. , but not in hen-egg antiserum , nor in horse antiserum , similarly heated ; ( 3 ) the precipitum formed between horse serum and horse antiserum is soluble in any horse antiserum heated to 75 ' C. , but not in hen-egg or ostrich-egg antiserum similarly heated ; ( 4 ) such precipita are insoluble in water , in salt solution , in natural rabbit serum , and in natural rabbit serum heated to 75 ' C. , all of which are likewise non-inhibitory ; ( 5 ) the amounts of heated antisera used in dissolving the precipitates were the same as those used in producing inhibition ( from 0*1 to 0*3 c.c. ) , and where the lesser quantity was unable to inhibit , it was also found to be unable to dissolve the precipitate .
When a precipitate was soluble in heated antiserum , it rarely happened that the whole of the * Muller , loc. cit. , p. 175 .
1907 .
] Phenomena exhibited by Precipitin Antisera .
471 deposit was taken up into solution , but by far the greater portion was so taken up , only a small trace being left in marked contrast to the original deposit , and in marked contrast also to the full deposit which reappeared when a precipitate was shaken up with any heated antiserum other than that strictly homologous .
It seems legitimate to draw the conclusion that the capacity for dissolving precipitate is a specific property of inhibitory antisera .
This conclusion is reinforced by the results of testing the solubilities of the precipitates obtained in " crossed " interactions , as indicated in Table II , and by comparison of these results with the " crossed " inhibitions shown in Table I. Table II .
No. Homologous protein , 0*005 c.c. Active antiserum , 0*1 c.c. Precipitate after 24 hours .
Heated antiserum , 0*1 c.c. , added to precipitate .
Result to precipitate .
1 Hen-egg white Hen-egg mm. 2*0 Hen-egg Dissolved 2 Ostrich-egg white Ostrich-egg 3*0 99 Unaffected 3 Horse serum Horse 1-5 99 4 Hen-egg white Ostrich-egg 0*5 99 Dissolved 5 Ostrich-egg white Hen-egg 0*5 99 99 6 Ostrich-egg 3*0 Ostrich-egg 99 7 Hen-egg white Hen-egg 2-0 99 Unaffected 8 Horse serum Horse 1-5 99 9 Ostrich-egg white Hen-egg 0-5 99 Dissolved 10 Hen-egg white Ostrich-egg 0*5 99 99 These results suggest that the precipitum given by hen-egg antiserum and ostrich or any egg albumin , other than hen-egg albumin , may be regarded as similar to that produced by ostrich-egg antiserum and any egg albumin other than ostrich-egg albumin .
We may assume this precipitum to result from the general avian character , or component , of the proteins used in the immunisation , while the greatly increased precipitum produced by hen-egg antiserum and hen-egg albumin , or by ostrich-egg antiserum and ostrich-egg albumin , we may assume to be due to the specific hen or ostrich character , or component , of the protein used for injection .
A heated-egg antiserum would thus inhibit and dissolve the general avian precipitum plus its own strictly homologous precipitum , but would neither inhibit nor dissolve the non-homologous component of any precipitum , however closely related .
This principle is probably of general application , and might be of value in the practical differentiation of closely related proteins .
The phenomena above described emphasise the close relationship that 472 Phenomena exhibited by Precipitin Antisera .
exists between the capacity for solution and the capacity for inhibition of precipitate , but we have still more striking evidence to offer .
For example , an antiserum rendered inactive , but non-inhibitory , by heating to 72 ' C. , has no power of dissolving precipitate , but when the antiserum is rendered inhibitory , by heating to 75 ' C. , it coincidently acquires the power of solution .
Antiserum ( No. 11 ) , rendered inactive , but non-inhibitory , by long-continued desiccation , did not dissolve precipitate , but when heated to 75 ' C. , and thereby made capable of inhibiting , it also became capable of dissolving precipitate .
When antisera are mixed with a sufficiency of homologous protein , their precipitable content may be entirely thrown out of solution and the antisera rendered inactive .
Such inactivated antisera , when heated , do not gain the power of preventing precipitation ( a corresponding result was obtained by Muller in respect of lactosera ) , and neither do they gain the power of dissolving precipita .
Further , an antiserum rendered inhibitory and solvent , by heating to 75 ' C. , has almost completely lost both capacities after heating to 85 ' C. for 10 minutes , and has completely lost both by exposure to 85 ' C. for 30 minutes , or to 100 ' C. for five minutes .
Such destruction of inhibitory and solvent capacity does not reactivate the antiserum , nor does the addition of heated or unheated natural rabbit serum restore its inhibitory or solvent capacity .
Notwithstanding many experiments of the above nature , we found it impossible to dissociate the capacity for inhibition from the capacity for solution of precipitate .
Both appear and disappear together , and it would seem not unreasonable to draw the further conclusion that an antiserum acquires the power of preventing precipitation in virtue of its acquiring the power of dissolving precipita ; in other words , that an essential part of the mechanism of specific inhibition is the development of a no less specific capacity for solution of precipitate .
Condusions .
1 .
Inactivation and inhibition are separable phenomena , the former appearing without the latter in hen-egg antisera heated to 72 ' C. , or exposed to long-continued desiccation , the latter not becoming appreciable until the antisera are heated to 75 ' C. 2 .
Inhibition and solution of precipitate by heated antisera are specific inseparable phenomena .
3 .
The specific capacity for dissolving precipitate acquired by heated antisera is probably an essential part of the mechanism of specific inhibition .
New Palaeozoic Lycopod with a Seed-like Structure .
473 4 .
Certain phenomena of precipitin reactions , including precipitation , inactivation , inhibition , and solution of precipitates , appear to be incompatible with the commonly accepted statement of Ehrlich 's theory of the substances concerned in precipitin interactions .
Miadesmia membranacea , Bertrand ; a New Palaeozoic Lycopod with a Seed-like Structure .
By M. Benson , D.Sc .
, F.L.S. ( Communicated by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received April 26 , \#151 ; Read June 13 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The vegetative organs of this interesting new type were discovered by Bertrand in 1894 .
He found them in sections of a calcite nodule from the Gannister beds of Hough Hill , England .
A large quantity of new material has become available , and now not only are more details known as to the vegetative organs , but a fairly complete knowledge of the reproductive organs is possible .
Miadesmia was exceedingly minute , its stem slender and without any trace of skeletal tissue .
It is the first Palaeozoic Lycopod of herbaceous character known structurally .
The megasporophylls which were identified by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. , in 1901 , show a more advanced type of seed habit than has hitherto been met with in Cryptogams .
The megasporange gives rise to but one thin-walled spore , which in development and structure resembles an embryo sac and germinates in situ .
An integument surrounds the sporange , leaving but a small orifice as micropyle .
This is surrounded by numerous long processes of the integument , which formed a collecting and incubating apparatus for the microspores .
There is no trace of an envelope about the microsporange : The carpellary leaf was shed at maturity , and resembles a winged seed .
Disregarding the structural modifications of the megasporophyll , the nearest affinity of Miadesmia among forms so far known seems to be with the non-specialised species of Selaginella , such as Selaginella selaginoides , but the foliage leaves show the archaic leaf-base comparable with that of Lepidodendreae .

