PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
Section B.\#151 ; Biological Sciences .
An Antelope Trypanosome .
By Captain A. D. Fraser , R.A.M.C. , and Dr. H. L. Duke .
{ Communicated by Sir J. Rose Bradford , Sec. R.S. , being an abstract of a Report to the Sleeping Sickness Commission , received May 19 , 1911 .
Received December 19 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read January 18 , 1912 .
) Ten days after blood of a bushbuck , which was shot on the shores of the Victoria Nyanza , had been injected into a healthy goat , trypanosomes appeared in the goat 's blood .
The same species of trypanosome was present in blood smears made from another bushbuck and a situtunga , which were shot in the same neighbourhood .
The small characteristic trypanosome corresponds morphologically to the one which was discovered in cattle in Uganda , and which was named Trypanosoma uniforms by the Royal Society Sleeping Sickness Commission , 1908-10 .
This is shown by curves representing the distribution , by percentages , in respect to length of the antelope trypanosome and Trypanosoma uniforme .
Cattle , goats , sheep , and bushbuck were infected .
Monkeys , pigs , dogs , cats , guinea-pigs , and white rats proved to be refractory .
It is concluded that the trypanosome found in the antelope was Trypanosoma uniforme .
Experimentally it was shown that laboratory-bred palpalis were capable of transmitting this species of trypanosome from infected to healthy animals .
Of six experiments four were successful .
The flies became infected in from 27 to 37 days , and the infection in the fly was always limited to the proboscis .
In order to ascertain if Glossina palpalis caught on the Lake-shore , near where the infected antelope had been shot , were naturally infected , flies VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. * B Captain A. D. Fraser and Dr. H. L. Duke .
[ Dec. 19 , were collected there and brought to Mpumu , where they were fed on a healthy goat .
After 1020 flies had been put on the goat it became infected with Trypanosoma uniforme .
Some days afterwards Trypanosoma vivax , with which wild flies had previously been shown to be naturally infected , also appeared in the goat 's blood .
The conclusions are:\#151 ; ( 1 ) This trypanosome , which is of fairly frequent occurrence among Lake-shore antelope , is Trypanosoma wiiforme .
( 2 ) The available evidence points to palpalis as being the carrier of this species of trypanosome .
( 3 ) Glossina palpalis caught on the Lake-shore are naturally infected with Trypanosoma uniforme .
The Relation of Wild Animals to Trypanosomiasis .
By Captain A. D. Fraser , K.A.M.C. , and Dr. H. L. Duke .
( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , Sec. R.S. , being an abstract of a Report to the Sleeping Sickness Commission , received May 19 , 1911 .
Received December 19 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read February 29 , 1912 .
) Wild animals were examined with the view of ascertaining whether they were naturally infected with trypanosomiasis .
The majority of the animals were shot ; a few were captured .
Ten waterbuck , 20 bushbuck , and 2 situtunga were obtained from within two miles of the Lake-shore where the Glossina palpalis were known to be infected with Trypanosoma gambiense and vivax and were afterwards shown to be infected with T. uniforme .
With the exception of four of the bushbuck ordinary blood smears were made from each animal , and trypanosomes morphologically indistinguishable from uniforme were found in slides taken from one bushbuck and one situtunga .
Blood from each of the antelope was injected into healthy monkeys and goats .
From 3 to 5 c.c. was the usual quantity of blood injected into monkeys ; 5-10 c.c. into goats .
None of the monkeys developed trypanosomiasis .
In the blood of one of the goats T. uniforme appeared 10 days after the injection of blood of two bushbuck shot near the Lake .
Unfortunately no blood smears were made from these animals .
It is suggested that , if animals more susceptible than goats are to-T .
uniforme had been employed , a higher percentage of the antelope examined might have been shown to harbour this species of trypanosome .

