484 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ June I0r the melting points of solids , which depend almost solely upon temperature , a very great amount of pressure being required to alter them .
The difference between the fluid and gaseous states is not then entirely dependent upon the length of the mean free path , but also-upon the mean velocity of the molecule .
June 14 , 1880 .
IV .
" On the Solubility of Solids in Oases .
II .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor O. .
O. Stokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received May 24 , 1880 .
In a former paper* it was pointed out that a solid dissolved in a liquid was not deposited from solution when the liquid passed through the critical point into the gaseous state , and the conclusion drawn that solids are soluble in gases .
I have shown in another paper f that it is probable that after a liquid passes its critical point it becomes a vapour or gas , and this quite independent of pressure , and that the cohesion limit for any one substance lies more in the direction of an isothermal line than a continuation of the boiling line .
Before , , however , I had carried out that work , I determined to make sure that a truly gaseous state had been reached , and the fluid containing the solid was raised to 150 ' above its critical point , and the gaseous solution expanded to nearly twice its liquid volume , and still the solid remained in solution .
In these circumstances it was found that nonvolatile solids were retained in solution in truly gaseous menstrua .
In the second paper referred to , I have pointed out some of the difficulties which beset such an investigation ; and when it is remembered that only air-baths can be used , the temperature being over 200 ' and sometimes over 800 ' , and that very many liquids dissociate under these temperatures , it will be seen that conclusions should be drawn only from substances perfectly free from suspicion .
All the experiments , therefore , which I have performed in iron tubes cannot bear on a discussion in this matter ; and I shall defer going into the natural minerals formed artificially from aqueous solution at a red-heat till another paper .
For high temperatures glass does not do , as every variety of it is easily decomposed by water ; but by the use of rock crystal blocks I have obtained some results of interest where the action of the water can be seen .
However , I intend in this paper to treat in a fuller manner of work touched upon in former papers .
One of the first pieces of work I set about to finish was to determine whether or not the critical points were altered by the introduction of a solid into solution .
In a former paper it was thought that the critical point of alcohol * " Solubility of Solids in Grases , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " ante , p. 178 .
+ " On the State of Fluids at their Critical Temperatures , " ante , p. 478 .
1880 .
] On the Solubility of Gases .
containing potassic iodide in solution was higher than pure alcohol , but subsequent experiments determined me to go into the matter again .
The cause was this .
I found that absolute alcohol if exposed to air for a very short time takes up sufficient moisture to alter its critical point ; and I considered that in preparing the solution of the iodide some moisture might have been introduced .
The experiments were repeated in the following manner .
Some common absolute alcohol was placed in a flask with caustic lime , freshly burned , and cohobated for a week .
The flask was then fitted with the arrangement shown in the diagram .
The tube connected with the drying arrangement is turned up at the lower end , so that the exit tube may be slipped into it .
A current of air desiccated over sulphuric acid is passed through this for some time , and the tube A then slipped out of the recurved end in the flask , turned round so as to clear it , and pushed down till it is below the level of the desiccated alcohol , which is forced up into the experimental tube sealed or connected to A. In this way , any quantity of alcohol , which has never been removed from contact with lime , can be introduced into the working tube .
A portion of fused potassic iodide placed in the experimental tube before the experiment enables a saturated solution to be prepared out of contact with air when the liquid is sealed up .
Twenty experiments were done with pure alcohol , and twenty with alcohol saturated with potassic iodide .
The pure alcohol had the specific gravity *7928 at 15'"5 .
Alcohol Alcoholic solualone .
tion of iodide .
Mean temperature 234-3 .
... 235 1 Probable error of single experiment 0-62 .
0-50 Mean pressure 64-5 .
65-8 Probable error of single experiment 0-83 .
0-95 These numbers are very much closer than the former ones , and go to show that with proper precautions the critical point is very slightly raised indeed by the introduction of a minute quantity of solid .
Were 2 m 2 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ June 10 , the iodide ijiore soluble , or did its solubility increase more rapidly with temperature , I have no doubt that its effect upon the critical point would be much more pronounced .
By performing a large number of experiments I came to the following conclusions:\#151 ; 1st .
The gas must have a certain density before it will act as a solvent , and when its volume is increased more than twice its liquid volume its solvent action is almost destroyed .
2nd .
Retaining the volume the same , the higher the temperature the greater the solvent power .
This was determined by placing an excess of iodide in the tube and raising the temperature to a given point and maintaining it for an hour or so , then noting portions still undissolved , raising the temperature again , and watching the effect till a temperature was reached when all the salt dissolved .
As the increase in the solubility in potassic iodide is very slight , it takes a considerable rise to have any apparent effect .
Thus we see that two conditions are requisite , molecular closeness and vis viva .
We see from this that the liquid condition of fluids has very little to do with their solvent power , but only indicates molecular closeness .
Should this closeness be attained by external pressure instead of internal attraction , the result is that the same or even greater solvent power is obtained ; greater because of the greater activity of the molecules so compressed .
That this is the case is seen well in the case of hydrogen , which , when compressed by a pressure of 1,000 atmospheres , measured by the hydrogen manometer , dissolves potassium , sodium , and lithium .
The experiment is done in this way .
A piece of the metal is placed in the end of the tube , and the dry hydrogen below it .
The pressure is then applied , and after twenty or thirty minutes the mercury near the metal will be found to be solid amalgam .
This is at the ordinary temperature ; but should the temperature be raised to 100 ' , the mercury becomes solid in a few seconds .
I intend to apply still higher pressures , and attempt to dissolve harder metals .
This is a case of purely gaseous solution , the hydrogen being at a very great distance from its critical point .
The conclusions arrived at in a former paper have been called in question in a paper by Professor Ramsay , and I would ask permission to point out some errors into which I think the author has fallen .
He says :\#151 ; " When the tube contains a small amount of liquid the space left for gas is larger , and consequently more vapour must be given off by the liquid before enough gas can be compressed till it acquires the same specific gravity as the liquid , the teniperatui e at which the meniscus disappears is consequently higher .
* It is difficult to understand how the author came to such a conclusion , unless he was thinking of the amount of heat required to form more vapour , and confounding calorimetry with thermometry .
His conclusion , as it stands , is at variance with all the experiments and conclusions of the * " Proc. Eoy .
Soc. " vol. xxx , page 326 , lines 10 to 14 .
The italics are mine .
1880 .
] On the Solubility of Solids Gases .
many eminent workers in the field .
It would lead to the result that the boiling point of a homogeneous liquid would vary with the amount of space over the liquid , and that the vapour tensions of liquids as determined by placing some over the mercury in a barometer , would vary with the amount of liquid used .
This no doubt would be true of a mixed liquid whose constituents have different boiling points , but cannot be said of a homogeneous liquid .
I had often noticed that the critical point of a carefully dried liquefied gas was the same whether observed at the top of the tube or at the bottom ; but any impurity or moisture would cause the critical point observed at the bottom to be high , as it would be concentrated in the last portions of the liquid .
Since Dr. Ramsay 's paper was published I have again gone over this ground , and to prevent mistake I used the same liquid in the same tube , varying its volume so as to make the disappearance of the division take place near the top or bottom of the tube ; and I here give a series with alcohol and carbon dioxide with the results .
Alcoliol .
Carbon dioxide .
Top .
Bottom .
Top .
Bottom .
234-5 ... .
2341 ... .
31-2 ... .
30-9 234-0 234-7 ... .
31-0 ... .
31-3 235-0 ... .
234-5 ... .
30-7 ... .
31-2 234-2 ... .
233-9 ... .
30-8 30-7 234-8 ... .
234-3 ... .
31-1 ... .
30-8 In these experiments every precaution was taken in purifying the substances , but the bath used was the old double one , otherwise closer observations might have been made .
They prove exactly what was known before , and what Dr. Ramsay denies , that a homogeneous liquid has a fixed boiling point , whether that be the absolute boiling point ( critical point ) or a lower one .
I find that liquefied gases give the best results to illustrate this , as they are more easily obtained pure and dry .
I have tried ammonia and sulphur dioxide with the same results .
Several ethers , especially oxalate of ethyl and methyl , failed^ to give the same temperature at top and bottom , a difference ot several degrees often occurring .
This , I have no hesitation in saying , is due to impurity or to alteration of the liquid at the elevated temperature .
It is difficult to conceive how it could be imagined that the ratio of a homogeneous liquid to the size of the vessel containing it could influence the tension or density of its vapour .
As experiment and theory point to the fact that at the same temperature the vapour of the same liquid must have the same tension and density , irrespective of the size of the containing vessel .
In another place , Dr. Ramsay says:\#151 ; " From the first experiment it is seen that , on cooling , the liquid contracts more rapidly than the gas .
" In another , " Wffiereas , even above their critical points , liquids 488 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ June 10 are comparatively incompressible .
" A fluid is homogeneous above its critical temperature , and it seems useless to theorise on the compressibility of a subject not known to exist .
Besides , in these statements he makes temperature and pressure act in different ways .
Compared with gas , the liquid is more sensitive to heat , but again compared with gas , the liquid is comparatively incompressible .
The author says:_____ " Carbonic anhydride , examined by Dr. Andrews , is abnormal in this respect , but of this I am not certain .
" I must say all the bodies I have examined are also " abnormal .
" Dr. Ramsay 's idea of the critical point is , that it is the temperature where their densities being equal , gas and liquid mix ; but the entire absence of capillarity , showing no difference in the cohesion of the upper and lower portions of the fluid , and the fact that we have two portions of the same chemical compound at the same temperature , under the same pressure with the same density , would prove to any ordinary mind that they are identical , as I have shown them to be in the paper already referred to .
Dr. Ramsay seeks to explain the solubility of solids in gases by saying " these gentlemen have observed nothing unusual , but merely the ordinary phenomenon of the solubility of a solid in a hot liquid .
" His former explanation would not hold here however , as the liquid holding a solid in solution would have a greater density than the gas , and so would not mix .
Besides , suppose his explanation were true , it would still prove the solubility of solids in gases , because , were the solid not soluble in the gas , it would be precipitated when the liquid mixed with the gas , as we know takes place when a solution is mixed with a liquid in which the dissolved body is insoluble .
Again , according to Dr. Ramsay 's theory , the higher the temperature the less the solvent power would be , but the opposite is the case .
He attributes to me the idea that , because a solid is dissolved in a gas , it is gaseous ; but I never supported that idea .
Let us now consider Dr. Ramsay 's repetition of my experiment with potassic iodide .
The solubility of the iodide in alcohol is very low ( 1 in 40 ) , and it increases very slowly with temperature , yet , when he caused a solution saturated just below the critical point to assume the gaseous condition , he evidently expected a very sudden increase in the solvent power , and such not being the case , he concludes that solids are not soluble in gases .
Then , the tube was only one-third full , and the pressure in a case of that sort would be so low that the solvent power would be very weak .
When Dr. Ramsay repeats the experiment with more liquid , and raises the temperature sufficiently , he will see that the solvent power is not altered in passing the critical temperature .
An important point , which is sometimes lost sight of , is that , although the pressure is independent of volume as long as the two states of fluids exist together , whenever the critical temperature is passed , the fluid in the vessel which contains the greatest amount 1880 .
] On the Solubility of Solids in Gases .
of liquid will develop the highest pressure on raising the temperature .
When , therefore , a tube contains a small amount of liquid , although below the critical temperature , it develops as much pressure as a tube nearly full , yet on passing that point it may not have sufficient molecular closeness to exhibit solvent power , the cohesion existing below the critical temperature giving it sufficient closeness there .
Hence , with a small quantity of liquid , the phenomenon is seen of a liquid depositing a solid ( which it held in solution ) at the critical point , but redissolving it again , when a certain increase of temperature gave it sufficient vis viva to compensate for its want of density .
With a larger volume of liquid , the solution being the same , no deposit takes place .
Then , as to the asserted difference in refractive power .
I have had an apparatus made specially for this purpose and , when the liquids are pure , there is not the slightest difference in refractive power between the upper and lower layers .
Liquids which may be pure at low temperatures may give rise to new products at higher temperatures , and thus produce a different result .
I have not my determinations reduced yet , but will publish them shortly .
They are done with a glass prism , with thick sides , and the results are reliable ; but Dr. Ramsay 's tube may have varied more than his liquids .
In another paragraph he sayS:__"It would be interesting to speculate on the condition of a fluid of which two portions possess the same specific gravity , but refract light differently .
" How have the two portions the same specific gravity when one is always left at the bottom of the tube P I don t think any clearer proof is required to show that it is an impuiity , \#166 ; or a product of decomposition at the high , temperature , and its greater refraction also proves its greater density .
Dr. Ramsay was very careful to expel all air , and evaporated the liquid to less than half its volume , thus concentrating the denser impurities in the remaining portion , and as momentary exposure of a pure liquid to air slightly hydrates it , we have conditions which suffice for producing the mixed liquid required for the results we observed .
Lastly , Dr. Ramsay says.\#151 ; Surely no clearer proof is needed to show that the solids are not present as gases , but simply as solution in a liquid medium , than that they retain the same spectrum as in the solid state .
We do not want proof that they are present in the gaseous state , which is very different from being dissolved in a gas .
In another paper , I have shown that there can be no liquid above the critical point , as this is the termination of all properties which distinguish a liquid from a gas , so that a fluid has only one state above that temperature .
Solution of solids is ( when chemical action does not come into play ) a function of all fluids , the requisite conditions being molecular closeness and thermal activity .
June 14 , 1880 .

