1884 .
] On a Gravity DanielVs Cell of small Resistance .
173 the central image are not comparable , and one of us has a Rutherfurd grating in which the infra-red rajs in the 1st order are absent after \9000 .
In conclusion we may say that the radiation apparently varies as to mqT , where m and q are constants and T the temperature .
XV .
" On a Gravity Daniell 's Cell of very small Internal Resistance .
" By J. T. Bottomley .
Communicated by Professor Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received May 29 .
1884 .
I beg leave to describe a new arrangement of gravity Daniell 's cell which I have found manageable and convenient for supplying Fig. 1 .
continuously and steadily a very powerful current of electricity .
It has proved of great service for graduating ampere-meters and for such purposes .
174 : Mr. \#171 ; J. T. Bottomley .
On Gravity [ \Tuiie 19 .
Fig. 1 shows the cell id plan , and fig. 2 the same in section .
The outer containing vessel is a large shallow tray of wood , very strong , hut quite roughly made , and lined with sheet lead .
The tray is Fm .
2 .
3f inches deep , and with this small depth the lead can be beaten in , and autogenous soldering is unnecessary .
The lead tray is very carefully varnished with spirit varnish , several coats being applied ; and on the bottom of it is laid a thin sheet of copper ( 0'2 millim. thick ) , or rather several sheets thoroughly connected together , as I have not been able to obtain a single sheet of copper large enough for my purpose .
The copper sheet , varnished on the lower side , is attached in many places to the lead lining of the trough by soldered slips of copper , the solderings being thoroughly coated with varnish or marine glue .
This copper sheet forms the copper plate of the Daniell 's cell .
The zinc of the cell consists of four of an unusually large size ( 56 centims. , 22 inches square ) of the gridiron zincs used in Sir William Thomson 's well-known tray Daniell , which is largely employed at most of the submarine telegraph stations in connexion with the Siphon Recorder , and is a modification of the constant Daniell 's battery described " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1871 , p. 253 .
These gridiron zincs rest on small blocks of wood at the four corners of each , and they are connected together by strong copper slips at the comers , and by means of two diagonals of thick copper rod which are soldered at the outlying corners and at the four meeting corners in the middle of the square .
Fig 3 . .
-.vi \amp ; .
IS\#174 ; * \#166 ; Very powerful pairs of electrodes are soldered on at each of the four corners of the cell , though only one of these pairs is shown in the diagram at D. These electrodes are formed of flexible copper 1384 ] Darnell 's Cell of very small Internal 175 rope , terminated with two thick slips of copper which are fastened together mechanically , but electrically insulated , and form the flat duck's-bill shaped piece ll , shown in section , fig. 3 .
The electrodes of | any instrument which is to be connected with the cell may be also | terminated with two copper slips , which are pushed on over the piece ?
ll held on by india-rubber bands .
The mode of supplying the cell with sulphate of copper still remains | to kg described , and it is this which constitutes its most important peculiarity .
The liquid contained ordinarily in the tray Daniells is j somewhat dilute solution of sulphate of zinc ( sp. gr. 1*12 to 1T4 ) , j the lowest layer of which is saturated with sulphate of copper .
The sulphate of zinc solution is kept at the proper density by occasionally drawing off quantities of strong liquor and replacing by pure water , testing by a hydrometer or with specific gravity beads .
The sulphate of copper is supplied by dropping a proper quantity of blue vitriol in crystals into the cell round the edges .
This is sufficiently easy when the cells are of moderate dimensions , and where a large number of \ them is being constantly used and regularly attended to in a business-like way , as at a telegraph station .
When , however , the size of the j tray is very large , and when the cell is being used intermittently , this simple method becomes difficult and unsatisfactory ; and , owing to want of uniformity of the solutions , the cell is rarely obtained in such a condition as to be ready to give the results which ought to be expected from it .
The copper sulphate supplied in crystals does not dissolve sufficiently quickly and spread itself over the whole surface of the lower plate , and difficulties arise as to the dilution of the sulphate of zinc without stirring up from the bottom remnants of unused sulphate of copper .
To avoid these troubles , and to make the starting and stopping of the action of the cell easy and rapid , I have arranged to supply the sulphate of copper in the state of solution , and to deliver and to remove it very gently but very quickly , and also simultaneously , at many parts of the bottom of the cell .
X and Y are two earthenware tubs placed one on either side of the cell ; and it should here be remarked that the cell is raised up from the floor on common building bricks .
From these vessels a number !
of siphons or delivering tubes , t , t , t , of which ten* are shown in the diagram , proceed to different parts of the cell .
The tubes are of thin glass , except the bend ss , which is of flexible india-rubber tubing , and enables the extremities to be taken with ease out of the vessels X and X for clearance or for starting of the siphons .
The tubes are held in position by passing through holes in the boards w , w , and the glass portions are bent in a gas flame to the proper shape for * I have recently doubled the number with great advantage .
176 On a Gravity DanielVsCell of small Resistance .
[ June 19 , delivering to the various parts of the bottom of the cell .
The vessels X and Y are furnished each of them with a shelf of thin sheet copper perforated with many holes , the level of the shelf being con-siderably above the level of the extremities of the siphon tubes .
On these shelves a large quantity of sulphate of copper in crystals is placed .
To raise the vessels X and Y up , and cause the siphons to run , two boards are provided which are pushed in beneath the vessels .
One of these , mm , is shown beneath the vessel X in the figures .
The boards are made of exactly the proper thickness to cause a layer of chosen depth to be run into the cell out of the vessels , or out of the cell into the vessels , according as the vessels are raised up on the boards or are lowered down when the boards are removed .
The thickness of the boards depends , of course , on the relative sectional areas of the two vessels and of the cell .
The depth of the layer which is spread over the bottom of the cell should be not more than one-eighth of an inch .
The bottom of the cell must be very carefully levelled in order that the layer of charged liquor may be uniformly distributed , and that the half-spent liquor may be uniformly drawn off .
In setting up the cell in the first instance I commence with the cell charged with weak solution of sulphate of zinc ( sp. gr. 1*12 ) , while the vessels X and Y are charged with nearly saturated sulphate of zinc solution .
This liquor is still able to take up a very large quantity of sulphate of copper ; and water saturated with both sulphate of zinc and sulphate of copper is much more dense than saturated solution of either salt alone .
When the cell is to be started the two reservoirs are raised into position .
The thin layer of dense liquor spreads itself over the bottom in a few minutes , and the cell is ready for use .
When the use of the cell is to cease the reservoirs are lowered down , and nearly the whole of the dense liquor runs back into them .
This should always be done at night , or during any considerable time when the cell is to be out of use .
During the action of the cell sulphate of zinc is constantly being formed , and it is necessary frequently to run off a portion of the contents of the cell and fill up with pure water .
I have planned for a system of tubes ( arranged similarly to those just described ) for siphoning off into independent vessels , and with a cell of very great dimensions , such as I am now constructing , they will probably be necessary .
With the cell which I have been using for nine months , however , I have been able to dispense with them .
It only remains for me to give the dimensions of the cell now in use , and of a new one in process of construction .
The tray of the former is 47 inches square inside measurement , and 3^ inches deep .
The zincs are each 22 inches square , and are raised up f inch from 1884 .
] On the Permanent Temperature of , SfC .
177 the bottom .
The copper sheet is about 0*2 of a millim. , or 0*008 inch thick .
It is probable that it would be better a little thicker .
With this cell I can command about 45 amperes for hours together at any time , only requiring to take , now and then , a fresh supply of sulphate of copper from the reservoirs .
The new cell which is in process of construction is 69 inches long by 46 inches , and 3f ; inches deep .
It has four reservoirs , and six zincs placed in two rows of three each .
Received June 19 .
p g___in the foregoing paper , I have described the'construction and capability of a cell , whose dimensions are given , constructed about the beginning of July , 1883 .
It was found necessary , almost whilst I was writing , to take the cell* to pieces , as it had become blocked op with copper deposited in the natural course of nine months ' working .
In putting the cell together again , with attention to small particulars , which I shall not describe as they will naturally occur to anyone who desires to use the arrangement , but which , V need scarcely remark , make , with such great currents , all the difference between success and non-success , I have obtained , through a current galvanometer of which the resistance is of an ohm , a current of 63 amperes , which was quite steady .
J. T. Bottomley .
June 16th , 1884 .
XVI .
" On the Permanent Temperature of Conductors through which an Electric Current is passing , and on Surface Conductivity , or Emissivity .
" By J. T. Bottomley .
With a Note by Sir William Thomson , F.R-S .
' Received June 17 , 1884 .
( Preliminary paper .
) !
The experiments of which an account is given in ' the following paper were commenced several months ago in connexion with a theoretical investigation by Sir William Thomson , " On the Effect of Clothing , " showing the dependence of the effect on the relation between the dimensions of the covered body , and the dimensions and physical properties of the covering .
A primary object of the experiments was the determination , for practical purposes , of the temperature of electric light conductors .
The preliminary experiments have led to results which seem to be of considerable importance , and they point to the necessity for a fresh determination of the " emissivity " VOL. XXXVII .
N

