Seeley- Phil , Trans.1894.B.Plate 60 .
tie .
rrbatridc Skull of Deuterosaur Phil. Trcun\amp ; .
61 .
Seek ?
- ^H-WreUy 11th .
3 fig .4 .
Skull of D eutero sauras ; and femur .
Seeley PhiL .
Trwns .1894.B .
Plate .
62 .
*y Ixflx , Q q r\#187 ; v\gt ; n " m Phil. Trans. J894.B.Plate , 63 .
Iig.3 .
" WWsftlTerrmaajn imp .
Skull of Rkop alo do n t 663 ] Researches on the Structure , Organization , and Classification of the Fossil }*ilia._VIII .
Further Evidences of the Skeleton in Deuterosaurus and Rhopam , from the Permian Rocks of Russia .
By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1893 .
[ Plates 60-63 .
] Introduction .
.eptilian remains found in Russia , in Permian rocks west of the Urals , are mostly rved at the Institute of Mines at St. Petersburg , at the University of Kazan , and SJenckenberg Museum , Frankfort-on the-Main .
They have been collected as ed bones in working the mines ; and the same specimens , in some instances , been referred to Mammals , Labyrinthodonts , Thecodontosaurians , and Theriot .
The principal genera described are known as Brithopus , Orthopus , and on of Kutorga , Zygosaurus , and Eurosaurus of Fischer and Eichwald , lops of Trautschold , Rhopalodon and Dinosaurus of Fischer , Deuterosaurus [ Chwald , and Cliorhizodon of Twelvetrees .
After examining the available mens which are the types of those genera , I concur in regarding Zygosaurus and jops as typical Labyrinthodonts ; and that there is no character in the skull of saurus , which was regarded by Eicbwald as the head of Eurosaurus , to make oubt that it is correctly referred to the Labyrinthodontia .
The approximation of Pareiasaurian skull in external character to this Labyrinthodont type led me to 'ate* before rejecting the genus Eurosaurus as defined by Eichwald , but , after ying the type specimens , I believe that the skull , which is preserved at Berlin , is a Labyrinthodont , and has no connection with the bones among which Eichwald ed it .
The separation of the Labyrinthodont from other remains is not yet easy .
yrinthodont limb-bones unfortunately are known very imperfectly .
Even the fine eton of Actinodon , figured by Professor Gatjdry , does not fully display the racters of the humerus .
The distinctive characters of the limb-bones of Labyhodonts have not been demonstrated , so that it is not possible to compare the omodont limb-bones found in Russian Permian rocks with those of the larger / * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , 46 , 1889 , p. 278 .
MLCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 4 Q 19.11.94 Russian Labyrinthodonts , which are known from skulls .
Those Russian limb-lw appear to me to belong mainly , if not entirely , to one animal type ; but therein conclusive evidence from natural association of the specimens that they should referred to one or more of the genera which have been described , or to detertne whether there is any difference of importance in the skeleton which is associ ; efj with the Labyrinthodont skulls , and that associated with the Russian skulls ^ have a Theriodont type of dentition .
On these subjects there , is inductive evince !
which inclines towards the conclusion that the skeleton of the Russian Penjan Labyrinthodonts is unknown .
M. Tratjtschold has ascribed many small fragEnts of limb-bones to the Labyrinthodont genus , but no one of them is comp te .
Professor Alexander Stukenberg , of Kasan , has given me the opportunit of studying them fully ; and I fail to recognize more than a generic difference bet^en the small specimen ( ' Moscou Nouv .
Memoires , ' vol. 15 , t. 5 , figs. 1-3 ) , regarded by Trautschold as the left femur of Platyops StuJcenbergi , and the large specimen wich he regards as the right femur of Brithopus prisons cit. , t. 6 ) .
This type of four nearly resembles the specimen figured by Eichwald , with the head of the fenrai bone still attached to the pelvis ( ' Lethsea Rossica/ pi .
57 , fig. 30 ) .
That pelvt is immature , since the constituent bones are separate , but it is unlike any specien which has been ascribed to a Labyrinthodont .
And although it differs from all cher Specimens from the Russian Permian rocks , in the separation of the pubis and ischm from each other distally , it resembles them in the part of the ilium which is preseied .
Hence , though these examples of femora and pelvis differ from others in Riuian specimens preserved , the differences between them seem to me more likelygtbe generic than ordinal , and there are no data for affirming they are Labyrinthoant bones .
It is possible there may , be only a generic difference between the bones referred to those orders .
Leaving the question of the distinctive charactes of the appendicular skeleton of the larger Labyrinthodonts , as one upon which the3 is at present insufficient evidence to establish the nature of its relations to the saurian or Theriodont skeletons , and discarding skulls with Labyrinthodont dentiton , there remain a series of bones in which the skulls have a Theriodont type of dentibn , and the vertebrae and limb-bones have much in common with South African ties which have been described as Anomodont , Theriodont and Pareiasaurian .
appear to me to be sufficient grounds in these resemblances in detail for associang the isolated bones as portions of the skeletons of one group of animals .
The remains with a Theriodont dentition show two generic types , whi#are indicated by the skulls .
They are defined as Rhopalodon ( Fischer , 1841 ) , Deuterosaurus ( Eichwald , 1848 ) .
Kutorga had previously founded the distal end of a humerus ; Orthopus on the proximal end of a humerus , -Syodon , which was based upon a tooth .
Fischer , in 1847 , separated from Rhopalodon by dental and cranial characters .
It is probable that the separ was based upon sufficient evidence .
And , although there is no conclusive associa AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
665 iris of the skeleton to support the reference , it seems to me not improbable that yams is identical with , Deuterosaurus ; that Orthopus includes and the Rhopalodon , while the remainder of R corresponds with the genus saurus , as conceived of by Fischer . . .
the yertebrse , the cervical , earlier dorsal , and caudal regions of the column are awn ; but the later dorsal and sacral regions are like those of African Theno-g as is shown by specimens which I obtained in Cape Colony , and the evidence esent available shows no difference between them of more than generic type , ss it he in the sacral region , except in articulation with the libs .
Le pelvis in Russian fossils indicates at least three types , and the remains might jferred to as many genera .
The pelvis figured by Eichwald is distinguished by slender form and apparently small size of both pubis and ischium , which are rated from each other in a way not seen in any other specimen , which may be saurian .
This type I regard as Deuterosaurian .
A better preserved type , attached he sacrum , has the first sacral rib not unlike that of though ively smaller .
The ilium has the antero-posterior development seen in South can Theriodonts , but a posterior wing , , for attachment to the ischium , widens the 5 in a way that distinguishes it .
This type may belong to i another type the three pelvic bones are anchylosed together , and there is a not usiderable obturator foramen below the acetabulum .
This is probably Rhopalo-j .
There may be another generic type of ilium , marked by having a notch on its sral surface where the sutures for the pubis and ischium meet .
hese pelvic bones may be referred to the animals indicated by the skulls named terosaurus , Rhopalodon , and Dinosaurus ; but reference to each genus is necessarily ting in the certainty which association would have given .
he shoulder girdle is known from nearly complete examples and indicates two es .
No evidence of a clavicular arch is preserved .
he bones of the hind limb , especially the femur , show differences in size , which f indicate large elevated hind limbs for Deu and relatively shorter hind bs for Rhopalodon .
The long limb-bone figured by Eichwald ( loc. cit. , t. 57 , 28 ) may be the radius of a large species of Deuterosaurus .
the following characters define these Russian genera as they were fiist instituted , ch genus includes several species .
Deuterosaurus .
Deuterosaurus is figured by Eichwald as having the uppei jaw flat at the side , ith the sides converging superiorly , and said to be 3 inches wide , though all Ekjh-ald 's measurements in this species are slightly in excess of the dimensions of his swings .
The lower jaw is remarkable for its almost hemispherical ^symphysial Mivexity , with obliteration of the suture between the rami , and a pitting of the convex surface by small blood vessels , recalling the Theriodonts which I obtained in South Africa .
The upper jaw shows no such anterior convexity , and the anterior nares appear to be at some height above the alveolar margin .
It is not certain what was the number of teeth in each jaw .
The distinctive feature of the genus is the large size of the incisors , which are compressed from side to side , and worn down by use .
They appear to number five in the upper jaw and four in the lower jaw , in each side .
There is a canine in each jaw .
The lower canine passes in front of the upper canine , which , like the tusk of , is well behind the premaxillary suture .
There are two or three teeth in front of it .
The canine does not appear to have been exceptionally large .
It is followed , at a larger interval there separates the incisors , by a single molar , that in the upper jaw being much widei than the molar in the lower jaw .
There is no evidence of more than the one mola ?
tooth .
- Fig. 1 .
Skeleton of Denterosaurus .
The shading indicates the hones which are known .
The remains which I refer to Deuterosaurus include :\#151 ; The jaws ( Eichwald * Lethaea Rossica/ 1860 , t. 58 , figs. X , 2 ) .
The skull ( now figured ) .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL BEPTILIA .
Articular end of mandible ( von Meyer , 1866 , * Palaeontographica/ Bd .
15 , t. 16 , figs. 6 , 7 ) .
Dorsal ribs ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , t. 59 , fig. 3 ) .
Lower dorsal and sacral vertebrae ( Eichwald , cit. , t. 59 , figs. 1 , 2 ) .
Scapula ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , t. 57 , fig. 26 ) .
Humerus , proximal part ( Trautschold , 1884 , ' Soc. Imp .
Not .
Mosc .
, ' tome L5 , t. 5 ) ; distal end ( Kutorga , 1838 , t. 1 , fig. 1 ) = Brithopus .
Radius ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , t. 57 , fig. 28 ) .
Pelvis , young specimen ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , t. 57 , fig. 30 ) ; old specimen ( von Meyer , loc. cit. , t. 17 , fig. 3 ) ; specimen now figured with sacrum .
Femur , proximal end ( Trautschold , loc. cit. , t. 6 ) ; distal end ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , t. 59 , fig. 4 ) ; von Meyer , loc. cit. , t. 19 , figs. 1 , 2 , 5 ) .
here is probably more than one species of It seems to me not robable that the remains referred by Trautschold to Oudenodon may be assigned he skull of Deuterosaurus , in so far as I can judge from the opportunity of lying the very fragmentary remains , for which I am indebted to Professor ixander Stukenberg , of Kazan , and the kind offices of Dr. A. Karpinsky and Friedrich Schmidt , of St. Petersburg .
Rhopalodon .
hopalodon was founded upon a lower jaw which contained small club-shaped h , characterized , according to Fischer , by having the root contracted below the nelled surface of the crown .
Two species were defined .
One , R. Wangenheimii , said to have serrations on the hinder margin of the tooth , and the other , Mantelli , had no serrations at all .
I am disposed to believe that absence of ation on the anterior border of the tooth is rather comparable to the condition of lower jaw teeth in Megalosaurus .
The maxillary teeth in that genus are fectly serrated along both borders , from the summit to the base of the crown ; le in the mandibular teeth the serration is complete on the posterior border , but Y found at the summit of the crown on the anterior border .
The transverse \gt ; ansion of the tooth in Rhopalodon , is probably a good generic character ; and this , h the limitation of the serrations of the lateral margin of the crown may be ficient to define the genus Rhopalodon .
It unfortunately happens that nothing re is known of the skull of Rhopalodon , as thus defined ; and it is possible that 'nay present a closer correspondence with the type originally named Rhopalodon irchisoni than was recognised by Fischer .
Eichwald , indeed , grouped Dinosaurus urchisoni , as Fischer 's third species , with Rhopalodon ; but this arrangement solved a reference to the same genus of species in which the crown of the tooth serrated on one or on both borders ; and in which the root is not conspicuously gfflgj narrower than the crown , and in which the crown is transversely expanded .
} .
a question of the value of generic characters .
Fig. ? .
k^NcitSbZe Skeleton of Bhopalodon .
The shading indicates hones which are known .
The remains which I refer to Rhopalodon include The skull ( now figured ) .
The mandible ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , t. 58 , fig. 9 ; Fischer 'Bull .
Mosc .
, ' 184H .
7 , fig. 1 ) .
A dorsal vertebra ( von Meyer , loc. cit. , t. 15 , figs. 1-4 ) .
The scapular arch ( von Meyer , loc. cit. , t. 18 , figs. 1 and 2 ; t. 20 , figs. 1 al 2 ) .
The scapular arch , now figured , belongs to a species of Rhopalodon or to saurus if that genus is distinct .
Humerus ( proximal end , Kutorga , loc. cit. , \#151 ; Orthopus ; proximal enc\oN Meyer , loc. cit. , t. 16 , fig. 2 ; distal end , von Meyer , loc. cit. , 15 , _fv and 7 ) .
Ulna , proximal end ( now figured ) .
Metacarpal bone ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , t. 58 , fig. 12 ) .
Pelvis , now figured ( imperfectly known ) .
Femur ( Eichwald , loc.cit .
, t. 59 , fig. 5 ; specimen now figured ) .
Tibia ( von Meyer , loc. cit. , proximal end , t. 21 , fig. 9 ; distal end , t. 20 , \#163 ; ( Fibula ( Eichwald , loc. cit. , distal end , t. 57 , fig. 29 ) .
ape Dinosaurus .
Dinosaurus Murchisoni rests upon a type figured by Fischer , and subseqent by Eichwald .
Fischer 's figure appeared in 1847 .
Eichwald in 1848 ge anterior view of the skull , showing the position of the great maxillary ca V .
he subsequently gave a lateral view of the same specimen , which s ows a of the skull and the lower jaw .
The teeth in the skull are all broken ; 1 manifestly of large size , and essentially conical m character .
Six occrn mW % and classification of the fossil reptilia .
'hes .
Fischer had figured the same teeth as occupying 5 inches of the border , representing them as in close contact ; while EiChwald shows a iterspace between them .
These are maxillary teeth .
The lower jaw below from Ito inch to 1J inch deep behind .
The lower jaw is figured separately , wn to have seven teeth in a length of lj inch , to be 1^ % inch deep towards erior fracture , and not much more than 1 inch deep towards the posterior The lower jaw teeth are very much smaller than those of the maxillary id the separate mandible in which the teeth are preserved is apparently less an the lower jaw , which is in contact with the skull fragment .
There is no 3 of a tusk in the lower jaw , so that it is probable the species R. jICHWALD states is characterized by the lower jaw being armed with a great tusk , may belong to another genus .
That author figures another specimen of tooth and ( / .r .
) fractured root in a fragment of jaw .
Probably Dinosaurus ; not ; size .
Institute of Mines , St. Petersburg .
shows the bones of the palate behind the tusk , seen from the superior suiface interior of the skull , which indicates a type of skull less compressed from side e anteriorly than might have been anticipated .
Thus , while the transverse irement over the posterior expansions of the transverse bones is 4 inches , the irement over the palate in the position of the great tusks , 5 inches further rd , appears to have been 3 \inches , as indicated on the right side of the median The palato-nares appear to be shown as long oblique vacuities , which diverge ard as they extend backward from between the tusks , which are separated by a of bones forming a narrow longitudinal bar , presumably the vomeia .
Eichwai/ d ^ igured small teeth on the hinder border of the transverse bone on the left side , vertical depth of the transverse bone seen from behind is fully 2 inches as figured .
iwald has also figured a specimen of lower jaw ( plate 58 , fig. 4 ) which is referred Fig. 3 .
to this species , but the form of the jaw appears to be different ; its teeth have lar conical crowns , of which three are contained in the alveolar length of 1 inch , but th jaw beneath them is only 1-^ inch deep , so that it seems to me impossible that tV specimen can be referred to the same species as the lower jaw , which is represents on the same plate in fig. 9 .
It is probably a Dinosaurus , but referable to ai undescribed species .
Dinosaurus , if it is generically distinct from , belong to the same family , and this may account for the absence of distinctive limb bone of a third type , though the femur appears to be distinct .
The interesting species which Mr. Twelvetrees has figured as Cliorhizodo , orenburgensis , if distinct from Dinosaurus , must be based upon the presume existence of incisor teeth which have not been recorded in D. Murchisoni N generic characters are enumerated by the author , and there is no proof tin Cliorhizodon can be separated from Dinosaurus .
The Skull of Deuterosaurus ( Plates 60 and 61 ) .
Eichwald figured and described the anterior portion of a large skull , with tl corresponding portion of the lower jaw , which is the type of Deuterosaurus biarmici It is distinguished by great vertical depth of the head , relatively to the width of t : palate .
And the incisor teeth , which are exceptionally large , are remarkable for ti antero-posterior depth of crown and root from within outward , greatly exceeding f* transverse width .
The front teeth are worn flat with use in the type specimen ; b. the lateral teeth are unworn .
Isolated teeth of large size , referable to Dentes saurus , have been figured by Tractschold and Twelvetrees , which are unwor .
Eichwald enumerates fourteen teeth in the upper jaw , and twelve in the lower ja^ : I believe this to comprise the entire dentition .
There are said to be five incisors i the upper jaw , and four in the lower jaw .
There are large canine teeth in both jaw : and the inferior canine is in front of that in the upper jaw .
Behind the canine toot , separated from it by an interspace , is a single molar tooth , which is relatively sms , and smaller in the mandible than in the maxillary bone .
This type of dentition is distinct from that of Dhopalodon , in the transverse compression of the incisor teeth , in their large size , and probably in attrition with us , in the presence of canine teeth in the lower jaw ; and in the remarkable reduction !
number of the maxillary teeth , which are unlike those of Rhopalodon in form aa character .
From Eichwald 's figure it might be inferred that three posterior incisors and f\#174 ; canine are in the maxillary bone ; this appearance however results from a squam\lt ; B overlap of the premaxillary by the maxillary , which covers much of the premaxliW bone .
, 'Ilf 1^ , The new skull now to be described , preserved in the Museum of the Institute ' Mines , St. Petersburg , is unfortunately imperfect , and distorted .
The alt^d is broken away , and the region of the incisor teeth and anterior nares , which 11 shown in Eichwald 's fossil , is here worn and lost .
The whole of the bones Kjcipital plate are lost with the counterpart slab of rock , but their impressions back of the head indicate the forms of the constituent bones , and some , nt points of structure .
is absence of the distinctive characters of the incisor teeth , the identification fossil with Deuterosaurus rests upon the form of the skull , the presence of a naxillary tooth behind the large canine on the right side , and the presence of roots of incisor teeth in advance of the canine .
The incisors were broken the fossil was imbedded in the marine stratum from which it was obtained , these roots are evident , and the third is not improbably present , leaving only it incisors from the front of the jaw as unindicated .
The anterior border of maxillary bones below the nares is manifestly lost , so that the front pre-ry teeth are necessarily missing .
In the absence of the distinctive specific er which those teeth may give , there is no proof of specific identity with ald 's fossil ; but I prefer for the present , in the absence of evidence of specific Lee , to refer it to Deuterosaurus biarmicus , loc. cit. , Plate 58 , figs. 1 , 2 .
most striking features of the skull are its great vertical elevation , and side to mpression , which makes the palate a long triangle , narrow in front ; with a ircular lateral orbit , and transversely ovate superior temporal vacuities , which \gt ; arated by a strong parietal crest .
'vertical height of the head as preserved is 10 inches , and was originally more , gth may be extended by compression .
As preserved , the skull is 11| inches in , and originally it was probably an inch or two longer .
The transverse width of late in the region of the pterygoid bones is 4 inches , but the width of the :al plate was much more ; the transverse measurement in the premaxillary region inches .
It is the highest and most compressed skull of a fossil reptile which is l. i face is flattened in lateral aspect , but is very slightly concave between the and premaxillary region .
It comprises the usual bones .
First , a frontal , above 'bit , with the rugose prefrontal in front of the orbit , and the post-frontal forming row posterior boundary to the orbit .
There is an immense lachrymal bone , l extends forward as far as the skull is preserved , in a long wedge , with much tame form as is attributed by von Meyer to the malar bone in Placodus 'ceps * At the superior suture it is 4 inches long , and it is more than 5l\gt ; inches at the inferior suture .
ns bone forms the lower half of the anterior part of the contour of the orbit for eye , but its slightly convex raised anterior wedge-shaped prolongation has the ct of being a superficial scale , which rests upon the surface of the maxillary bone , * 1 Palseontographica , ' vol. 11 , 1863 , Plate 24 .
4 R -DCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. PROFESSOR H. G. SEELEY ON THE STRUCTURE , ORGANIZATION so as to divide it into a superior portion which enters into the orbit , and ai infeit part which contains the teeth .
The alveolar border ( Plate 60 , fig. 1 ) of the maxillary bone ( mx. ) is broken a and lost .
Its antero-posterior measurement is shown by the suture with the * maxillary , and the impression of the posterior sutural thickening , to have been at\#187 ; 4 inches , or less ; but it is impossible to determine whether the inferior union of ; le palatine and transverse bones with the maxillary and malar may have been squam g The suture with the premaxillary bone is straight and vertical , and the depth of bone in this position , as preserved and expose^d , is about 8 inches .
The premaxillary bone ( pm .
) in front of this suture is imperfect , and only remng as a narrow strip not more than 1-J inch wide as preserved .
No portion oft\#174 ; anterior border is preserved .
Its vertical height to the superior fracture is alut 5J inches .
On the palate these bones meet in a median suture , and have an anto-posterior extent of inches .
They are almost embedded in the maxillary begs which extend above them laterally , so that , although the suture between he maxillary and premaxillary bones is lj inch in advance of the canine tooth , the remaxillary bone abuts closely against the socket for that tooth .
This shows that.he suture does not depart materially from its usual position , and , although the antior extremity of the bones is imperfect , the snout has much the same side to side impression and form as is shown in Eichwald 's figure .
The prefrontal bone ( Prf ) appears to be defined from the frontal by a vertie or nearly vertical suture , which passes from the crown of the head outward to the \#169 ; it .
Its anterior border is broken away with the compression which has affected the ght side of the head ; and the superior suture defines this bone as apparently wege-shaped , with a narrow border on the orbit , and a wide border on the nose , vich appears to have been more or less flattened in front , and obliquely inclined 'om above downward .
Its .
surface towards the orbit is rugose with irregular groongs which cross each other , and somewhat mask the sutures , though its lower extrnal part is flat , and marked with small vascular perforations .
The width of the \gt ; i frontal at the orbit is about inch , and it extends obliquely upward for aout 3 inches to the superior fracture .
The frontal bone ( Plate 61 , fig. 1 ) ( / ) has its chief extension behind the orbited makes not more than an inch of the margin of its upper arch .
It has a strgW sutural union with the post-frontal bone ( pt-f- ) which extends at the back of the obit These two bones have a smooth superior external surface , which is convex from a\gt ; 've downward , concave from within outward ; and they form the anterior boundary otw post-orbital vacuity of the cranial region .
Those vacuities are separated by the m\lt ; ian parietal crest , but there is no evidence whether they were arched over with \#163 ; , Jie superiorly , for the summit of the parietal ridge is broken , and the post-front \#174 ; imperfect posteriorly .
The form of each frontal bone on the roof of the skull aPfar * ' Letheea Rossica , ' Tab. 58 , fig. 2 .
and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILIA .
673 triangular .
It unites posteriorly with the post-frontal bone by a suture bes long which is indented by the narrow parietal bones in the median line ; is defined laterally by a straight suture with the prefrontal hone , which passes I ^ it extends forward .
Its anterior limit is not definite , but its antero-ior extent appears to have been about 3J inches .
nasal bones ( m. ) are too imperfectly preserved for description ; but were mani-narrow , extending between the maxillary bones , and in advance of the frontal to the anterior nares .
The forms of those vacuities can only be gathered from iald 's figure ( ' Lethaea Bossica , ' Plate 58 , fig. 2 ) .
In the fracture at the aity of the specimen now described , the external nasal vacuity appears to be es deep as exposed . .
, , , , , , and the orbit ( o. ) the post-frontal bone ( pt.f .
) joins the parietal bone ( p. ) above , 61\gt ; fig- x ) as well as the malar bone below ( me .
) , though its extension infenorly the ' orbit is partly broken away ; and much of the extension of the malar and rental bones is only indicated by the internal moulds or impressions from which me-substance is lost .
There is an indefinite appearance of a dismemberment 3 post-frontal bone , in the middle of the posterior orbital border , which may ite that the bone which meets the malar should be regarded as the post-orbital , e orbit ( Plate 60 , fig. 1 ) is only preserved upon the left side , where it is regularly , , and measures 3| inches in depth , and 2| inches in width .
Its superior border ckened and convex , and rugose with channels , while the inferior border has the i compressed and comparatively thin .
The bones which enter into its margin lescribed as the malar , lachrymal , maxillary , pre-frontal , frontal , and post-frontal , possibly the post-orbital .
It is behind the middle of the length , and above the lie of the depth of the skull , vertical , and inclined slightly forward .
16 malar bone ( mr .
) is almost entirely broken away , and is seen to have been .st as thin as the hinder part of the maxillary bone , which it overlaps by , mous suture .
What remains of the sutural line is sinuous as it extends nward from the orbit .
Its inferior border is horizontal , and unites by suture 1 the palatine bone anteriorly and with the transverse bone behind , so that on 1 sides the malar bones converge as they extend downward to the palate ; an inferior border is concave from front to back , as is proved by an impression old of the external surface ( Plate 60 , fig. 3 ) preserved with the skull .
^ .he vertical depth of the arch behind the orbit , which makes t e e indary of the temporal vacuity , may not greatly exceed 3 inches .
e 8 somewhat imperfect in this region , but it is clear , from comparison 0 f e \#174 ; 1 left sides , that there is a continuous extension of bone backward Irom e \#166 ; Hillary to the quadrate bone ( \lt ; / .
) , much as in Placodus ; only Deuterosaurus has is post-orbital plate notched out on its superior border , behind the orbit , so as to pose the lateral aspect of the brain case ( Plate 60 , fig. 1 ) .
The suture which limits * post-frontal or post-orbital below is clearly seen .
Its binder extremity meets the squamosal ( sq .
) which partly envelopes the quadrate bone ( q. ) , as in Anomod0 extending over it in front .
In the angle between the squamosal , post-frontal ^ malar is a thin plate of bone , which can only be identified with the qn^ jugal ( qj ) .
It forms the external palatal border to the temporal vacuities , have the same transversely ovate form on the palate as on the superior aspect* the skull .
The palate , as preserved , is about 9 inches long .
It is closed in the median li and remarkably concave from front to back ( Plate 60 , fig. 3 ) .
It is conditioned , Megalosaurus , many Lizards , and Chelonians , in having a thin alveolar margin to t jaw , which descends nearly an inch below the surface of the vaulted palate .
% contour of the palatal aspect of the skull , seen from the under surface , is triangui-with the lateral borders flattened , and inclining to concavity , as they convey forward from the transverse infra-occipital plate .
The premaxillary bones deseed anteriorly in a solid mass like a beak , which is not paralleled in any South Africa Theriodont , and is different from the condition in Hyperodapedon , where f| beak is chiefly formed by the premaxillary teeth , and the character is not maniit in the figure of Eichwald 's original specimen .
The teeth in this skull are badly preserved .
They have an aspect of being brob and worn previous to fossilization .
There may be indications of transverse secti s of the ovate roots of three incisors placed laterally ; and in front of them is possiy a section of another and larger incisor root , with space for a fifth , in a positn nearer to the median premaxillary suture , though no portion of the* root is present Hence the number of incisor teeth may be the same as Eichwald 's type ; thoii the indications are so obscure that they might have escaped notice , if Eichwald kl not figured two incisors in advance of the maxillary suture , and three inch 's behind it ; still the incisors in his specimen are relatively larger , as though the crois might be different .
Immediately behind the premaxillary bones is a pair of large and long canine teik ( Plate 60 , fig. 2c .
) , contained in the maxillary bones .
The antero-posterior diameer of the root is about 1 inch , becoming less as it ascends .
The crown is strong , owe in section , compressed from within outward , serrated on the hinder border .
It s 2|- inches of its vertical extension below the palate ( cn .
) preserved , without n appreciable decrease in size at the inferior fracture , where it is seen to have an owe pulp-cavity of moderate size .
The root of the tooth ( r. ) in the maxillary bonds conical ; and the extreme length indicated for root and crown on the right sidets 4 inches , as preserved .
The enamel surface , as evidenced by a portion of ie impression of the crown , is smooth and shining .
The distance of the anterior botf* of the teeth , behind the anterior extremity of the snout as preserved , is 2^ inch-The teeth diverge outward as they descend .
They are as remarkable for the diame-t ( 1 inch ) , exceeding the diameter ( |-th inch ) of the canine in Eichwald 's specimens.*8 the indications of incisors are for showing that the incisors in this fossil are nan1 AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
bhan in Eichwald 's type , which shows no such anterior descending develop the premaxillary bones .
d the canine , separated by an interspace of less than \ inch , is the lolar tooth ( Plate 60 , fig. 2m .
) .
In Eichwald 's specimen this interspace 3 J inch .
The tooth is relatively small , with the root strong , ovate in section , ig -x4q inch from front to back .
The crown is short , convex , of conical aspect , id , smooth , widened transversely a little beyond the root , and terminating in a sharp margin , so that the inner side of the crown was less convex , rht of the enamelled part of the crown , inch , is about equal to its antero-* extent .
There is no indication of a second molar .
dental characters confirm the reference of the genus to Denterosaurus , but .obably show that the species is different from that described by Eichwald .
ones shown upon the palate , in addition to the premaxillary and maxillary , vomera , palatines , transverse bones , and pterygoid bones , all of which , except itine , transverse , and possibly the maxillary , meet in the median line .
There pairs of vacuities in the palate ; first , the palato-nares , which are between find the canine teeth ; and secondly , the temporal vacuities , which are ; tly defined , but are external to the pterygoid bones .
even the canine teeth the transverse measurement is 1^ inch .
The space lie is occupied by the premaxillary bones in the way described ; and then the ry bones may meet mesially and extend backward between the palato-nares , ped upon the palate by a pair of bones which are regarded as vomera .
The rse width of the longitudinal bar which they form does not exceed \ inch .
3sage of the palato-nares downward and backward , on each side of it , causes \gt ; open as long vacuities widest behind , where the contours are well rounded , fits of the vomera ( Plate 60 , fig. 3 , v.)are indistinct , but they terminate forward msverse suture which is behind the narrowest part of the waist of the palatal They are continued backward as a pair of bones which form an irregular pentagon , ag posteriorly by the longer concave borders , which form the inner and hinder i of the nares , meet the palatine bones laterally , and the pterygoid bones palato-nares ( fig. 3 , pt.n .
) are distorted with compression of the skull .
^ That !
right side appears to be fully 2 inches long , and that on the left side is nch wide posteriorly .
The vomerine bones are inch wide , where widest , at -ck of the vacuity , and are about J-inch wide at their anterior junction with the xillary or maxillary bones .
These bones form a longitudinal , median , narrowed , palatal ridge , which is prolonged backward on to the pterygoid bones .
This n ridge is flanked on each side by a concave groove , which widens as the , no hones extend backward .
The grooves are defined by lateral ridges , limited 3 vomerine bones , diverging as they extend backward , and less prominent than aedian ridge .
This area of the palate is deeply concave from side to side , between the palatine bones ( pn .
) , which descend on each side , as well as cone from front to back .
The palatine bone ( pn .
) meets the maxillary ( mx. ) in behind the alveolar border .
Internally it joins the vomer ( v. ) and pterygoid b\lt ; ag ( pty .
) and meets the transverse bone ( t. ) by a transverse posterior suture , while malar bone ( mr .
) joins its lateral superior margin .
Each bone forms an elevy lateral ridge , rounded from side to side , diverging outward as it extends forward y concave in length .
In general character it resembles the transverse bone f\#187 ; Crocodile , though it is relatively larger , and is especially distinguished by its elected position upon the palate .
The pterygoid bones form the deep longitudinal depress between the transverse bones , which is divided by the small median palatal r* % Outward and backward behind the pterygoid ( pty .
) are the transverse bones .
pterygoid bones in front are 1J inch long , with a transverse width of | There is no evidence that the pterygoids were in squamose contact withfche quadrate bones , though they may be presumed to have had this union , for ere is a continuous extension of bone from the pyterygoid at the back of the base qfcb palate , transversely outward to the quadrate region from which the bone is lost 1$ is only represented by an impression of the anterior surface of the transverse he , There is a faint indication of what appears to be a smooth sutural border titb\#174 ; pterygoid on the inner margin of the quadrate , which is suggestive of the coniion in Dieynodon , though the pterygoid was developed backward in a way which mom Theriodont .
At the back of the palate there is a pair of transverse lateral vacuities which are deformed with the compression of the skull .
That upon the left side is otque , extending outward and backward .
As preserved , it is about inches loi by 2l inches wide .
It is bordered by the transverse bone on the inner side , b the quadrate bone behind , with the quadrato-jugal , and possibly the malar bone in out ; but the cast is not complete below the orbit , so that the continuity betwee the malar , and what appears to be the quadrato-jugal , is lost .
It is apparently bj means of an impression from the external surface of the palate which may be sper-imposed upon the base of the skull , so as to show that the malar formed th^'dl ^ this vacuity above the pterygoid in front , but the suture between the mala an quadrato-jugal is not seen , though it is distinctly preserved between the^mahand post-orbital bones beneath the orbit .
These vacuities are the inferior openings 11 superior temporal vacuities behind the orbits , which are vertically above transversely ovate form , 2 inches from front to back externally , and 2^ transverse measurement .
The transverse measurement from the median line ^1 palate to the outer extremity of the impression of the quadrate bone is I that the palate appears to have been fully 8 inches wide posteriorly , and about M The back of the skull appears to have been a vertical plate of bones , with men magnum placed above the middle , and the superior contours converging u and classification of the FOSSIL EEPTILIA .
677 arietal foramen .
Its right side is crushed , but the transverse measurement \gt ; ft side is inches from the median line , so that across the vertical external of the quadrate and squamosal bones the width exceeded 9 inches .
The t this external border , which gives no indication of the quadrate condyle , is .
an(j the height in the median line to the worn parietal crest exceeds and about an inch may be lost .
Most of the bones from the hack of the [ lost with the counterpart rock ( Plate 61 , fig. 2 ) .
This fracture has exposed ral cavity below the parietal foramen .
The cavity of the pineal canal is a stalk , ascending for fully 2| inches above the mass of the brain .
This pineal ,5 .
) is5 somewhat contracted towards the base , is | inch wide in the middle , in contracts a little from side to side towards the summit , where it becomes r from front to back .
Its form when seen from above is transversely ovate , light compression in front at the superior fracture , where it is inch from side , and inch from back to front .
Its anterior border lies in the parietal which are exposed on its borders in the posterior fracture , and shown to be almost to their summit in the post-frontal bones .
There appears to be the ion of a median vertical suture on the posterior side of the pineal stalk ; it regarded as formed by the parietal bones .
The height from the base of the ise to the summit of the stalk is 4\#163 ; inches .
The back of the cast of the brain rfect , and the cerebral cavity is filled with a small bivalve shell , which I regard iolopsis Pallasi , in such numbers as to suggest that they may have lived there te skull had reached the Permian sea-bed .
From the indication of the posterior ' of the brain case which is preserved , the foramen magnum appears to have rge , triangular , and as wide as high , but since no portion of its margin is pre-no measurements can be given .
There is a lateral expansion of the biain case ion the left side , towards the junction of the parietal with the squamosal and , any , the ex-occipital bones , which is presumably in the cerebral hemisphere , cipital condyle is lost with the bones at the back of the head .
The height of lin cavity to the base of the pineal stalk is about 2 inches .
\gt ; w the foramen magnum ( yin .
) there is a continuous sheet of bone , which extends illy downward to the back of the palate , and laterally to the quadrate and osal bones .
Theoretically this area should comprise the basi-occipital and ihenoid bones , and it thus appears as thougi owing to the inferior position led by the squamosal and quadrate bones , the basi-occipital and basi sphenoid ecome developed so as to fill in the entire interspace between the pterygoids and ate bones .
The state of preservation does not make definition of the bones as , but the great width of the basi-occipital appears to be evident , and was not han 4 inches .
There is no indication of a tranverse division in the plate , so that be 4J inches deep , though it is possible that the inferior part may be made by \gt ; asi-sphenoid after the manner of Teleosaurs , or Chelonians .
I am acquaint no other fossil in which the occipital plate is formed in this way .
On the right 678 PROFESSOR H. G. SEELEY ON THE STRUCTURE , ORGANIZATION , side , a well-rounded convexity diverges downward and outward from beneath brain cavity towards the quadrate bone , and a narrow ridge appears to desc\#171 ; vertically to the median line of the palate ; and external to this ridge , the bonesttri is flattened , but is a little concave .
The squamosal bone , Plate 61 , fig. 2 ( sq .
) although only known from the impress is at a lower level in the skull than is usual in Saurians .
On the posterior aspects* somewhat flattened , and of an irregular triangular form .
It meets the supra-occipj ex-occipital , and basi-occipital bones on the inner side , though they are ill defined , ; ^ the quadrate bone below ; the superior border of the bone inclines downward outward .
On the lateral aspect the bone bends round sharply , and descends in fW of the quadrate , meeting what appears to be the quadrato-jugal bone .
Its supe0r border is on about a level with the base of the orbit .
The quadrate bone , Platen fig. 2 ( q. ) as preserved , is slightly exposed laterally , but is chiefly seen at the lek of the skull , where it is vertically oblong and has a convex surface .
It is nerlv 2 inches wide below the squamosal bone ( $g .
) and 2j inches wide at the infaoi fracture .
It is 3^ inches high as preserved ; but the condyle , which is lost , may tvs made the bone an inch longer .
The posterior surface extends eonvexly on tote lateral aspect of the bone as preserved .
In general form the quadrate bone app\#171 ; to be quite as much like that of a Plesiosaurian , such as Mursenosaurus , asDicynom and its position and large size are unlike African Theriodonts .
The skull which at first sight suggests comparison with this fossil is the Bat !
African Delphinognathus ( 'Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc./ vol. xlviii .
, p. 569 ) , in whiclth head is compressed , with a large orbit , a vertical occipital plate , large parietal foraa and a similar zygoma .
But the affinity is probably not very close .
The pai5tn region in Delphinognathus does not form a crest ; the parietal foramen is not atth back of the head , the temporal vacuities are relatively small , the quadrate bone kto vertical , and the maxillary bone does not appear to form a deep vertical plate ; lfiil no canine teeth or incisors are yet known in , and the bones caro at present be individually compared .
Still the resemblances indicate affinity , in s uggest the possibility of both types being referred to the same order of animals , in that there may be community of structure with the South African Theriodon ' i other parts of the skeleton .
Sir Richard Owen , in 1876 , fully demonstrated the os resemblance in dentition between Deuterosaurus as figured by Eichwald , andtij South African Genera Cynodraco and Lyc , and in the latter genus then a* indications of a strong though broad parietal crest .
In Gorgonops the parietal fouoe is almost as far back .
In all these types however the structure of the pala* I different , and no African genus has given evidence of palatine and transverse and pterygoids , conditioned as are those bones in Deuterosaurus ; while the bat \lt ; the skull differs in the remarkable developement of the region below the occfik condyle .
There is in the European Muschelkalk genus Placodus , as represented bi AKD CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPT1LIA .
os ( v. Meyer ) , a resemblance which may indicate affinity as close as is shown ih African genera .
The skull is compressed and high , the orbit large , the tl arch more developed than in Deuterosaurus ; incisor teeth have much in i- though there are no canines ; and the palatal teeth of Placodus are leled in the Russian fossils .
The palato-nares and the pterygo-malar vacuities only openings in the palate .
The parietal foramen which is sometimes large , - so far backward in position , but there is much in common in the positions of es of the skull , in so far as they can be compared .
And from such considerations us has seemed to me to be an Anomodont which more closely resembles \gt ; saurus than any other European genus ; but as its teeth indicate an aquatic t is not improbable that the limbs differ from those of Deuterosaurus .
On the the structure of the palate and the back of the skull make it convenient to e the Deuterosauria from the South African Theriodonts .
They appear to ome approach towards the Pareiasauria , notwithstanding the differences which nous in the armature of the skull , in its occipital region , and the palate , he North American Permian Peptilia are more perfectly figured it will not be 3 to determine whether the genus Clepsydrops , which has a Theriodont dentition npressed skull , conforms more to the African or the Russian types .
The form back of the head , and the structure of the palate in Deuterosaurus are itnations to both the Nothosauria and Sauropterygia , which , taken with the der of the^skeleton , seem to suggest that the systematic position of this type 7een the Nothosauria and the Theriodontia .
The fact that Deuterosaurus is ally a Theriodont Plesiosaurian in skull structure , indicates a closer affinity in the Anomodontia and Sauropterygia than has been previously evident .
For :ull appears to be substantially of the same type as in Khopalodon3 and may arded as approaching in structure to Plesiosaurs , Crocodiles and Chelonians , b. in dentition it is indistinguishable from the Theriodontia , as described by Sir fEN .
Other parts of the skeleton , supposing them to be correctly referred to ppe , support the inferences drawn from the teeth .
The Articular End of the Mandible of Deuterosaurus .
fee bones were figured by von Meyer , but not osteologically determined , which II referable to the same part of the skeleton .
e two more important fragments are drawn in the ' Palseontographica , t. 15 , 16 , figs. 6 , 7 ; plate 19 , figs. 4 , 5 .
Both , unfortunately , are fractured , but their liar aspect makes identification comparatively easy .
One example has been what cleaned from the matrix .
It shows an articular surface in the position re the bone is thickest .
The articular surface is wide and short , measuring , aversely to the length of the bone , inch ; while the imperfect articular surface ^where more than inch from front to back .
It is narrower in the middle , and Wtocxcrv.\#151 ; b. 4 s 680 PROFESSOR Et .
G. SEELEY ON THE STRUCTURE , ORGANIZATION , has the aspect of being wider on one side .
It is margined by an elevated boi\#187 ; beyond which is a vertical depression or foramen , and on one of the lateral surt .
there is a very large excavation , so that the bone presents some resemblance toiW shoulder girdle where the precoracoid foramen indents the scapula .
But sinceik shoulder girdle is completely known in these animals from the Permian rod Russia , and since the bone which offers some resemblance to the scapula is show by von Meyer 's third figure to be very nearly complete , some other osteological d , er .
mination must be found .
The only articular surface in the skeleton which is unaccounted for to whidthe fossil could possibly belong is the articular end of the mandible .
Dentigerous iw ?
being known , it may not be remarkable that Wangenheim 's collection inodes three examples of the opposite extremity .
This region of the lower jaw is dikf anything previously known to me , and unlike everything which the affinities c tin animal might have suggested ; but , on the whole , it is more like Placodus tha arn known Theriodont or other Anomodont .
It differs from all known Anomodois | having a heel extended behind the articulation , which rises vertically above th liec on the inner side , so that it is quite different to the form of the heel of the maiihl in Plesiosaurs and their allies , and is dissimilar to the condition in Iguanodon , Th heel has a strong median ridge , prolonged backward from the posterior angle \lt ; th articular surface .
This bony ridge has a convex outline posteriorly .
The nrro1 inferior base of the heel is flattened .
There is the broken base of a coronoid pc\#174 ; on the inner side of the articular region of the jaw .
In front of the articulatic .
th bone is compressed from side to side superiorly so as to define the coronoid pices There is a small muscular tuberosity with a slight ascending ridge in front of t. i the base of the external side , below and behind the articulation .
And thimia possibly represent such a sub-articular excavation as is found in Endothiodon G the inner side of the jaw , chiefly behind the articulation , is a long excavation 3 j ,31 inches from front to back , and about inch deep in the middle .
It coima^csl with the foramen seen on the superior surface in front of the articulation .
A* although it is more backward in position , it may be homologous with th\gt ; pi articular vacuity seen in the mandible , laterally in Anomodonts , Labyrinthoclon .
at from above in Belodon .
The depth of the jaw at the articulation is inch .
J depth , as preserved , to the fracture of the ascending process interior to the is 2J inches .
The length of the heel , as preserved , measuring from the aien margin of the articulation , is about 3 inches .
The only point in common wn t South -African Theriodonts is in the situation of the ascending coronoid process n _ inner side of the articulation .
The specimens supply a distinctive character ' \gt ; skeleton in these Russian Deuterosauria .
_ .
n \#187 ; lL.il I am indebted to Dr. F. Kinkelin for the opportunity of studying , m t is -ccai these bones , which are preserved in the feenckenberg Museum at Frankfort of^ * ' Quart .
Joum .
Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 32 .
August , 1876 .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
The Vertehrce of Deuterosaurus .
vertebral column in the Russian Theriodonts is imperfectly known .
The ns which have come under my observation are referable to four individuals ke known the lower dorsal region and the sacrum .
I have seen no evidence )Y the neck or tail ; and there is no demonstration of the number of vertebrae 'enion 0f the body .
The first specimen in importance is the vertebral column i a cast was submitted to Sir R. Owen in 1845 , and briefly reported upon in L. Murchison 's 'Geology of Russia in Europe/ vol. 1 , p. 637 .
It is said \gt ; rise twelve costal and two sacral vertebrae .
They have their articular faces 3d and become shorter and broader as they approach the sacrum , interior vertebrae are said by Sir R. Owen to most resemble in their compressed md very strong transverse processes the vertebrae of Palceosaurus .
On the age it is stated that the teeth of Rhopalodon Fisclieri are nearly allied to mtosaurus ; and a Russian humerus and femur from the Permian beds are \gt ; mpared with Palceosaurus .
These references of the Russian types to the ontosauria , may have exercised some influence on the interpretation of the a by Eichwald , and the institution of the genus by Fischer ; but at aware that any subsequent reference to this vertebral column occurs in the s of Sir R , Owen .
In April , 1889 , by the kindness of Professor F. Schmidt , Karpinsky , and Professor Lehusen , I had the opportunity of examining this n St. Petersburg .
It gives no proof that the commencement of the dorsal s preserved .
It shows ten dorsal vertebrae .
There is a broken fragment of r vertebra in front , which I infer to have been dorsal , from the articulations rib .
There are two sacral vertebrae .
number is also evidenced in a separate sacrum ( p. 683 ) .
The additional mass ectly preserved at the hinder extremity of the column is therefore probably .
Hence , I concur with Eichwald , who describes the fragmentary spinal l , 14 ( 15 ) inches long , as composed of eleven dorsal vertebrae , two sacral rae , and a fragment of a caudal vertebra , and refers the fossil to Deuterosaurus icus ( ' Lethaea Rossica/ p. 1611 ) .
Yon Meyer does not appear to have examined 'ecimen , but he thinks that the number of dorsal vertebrae must be inferred to exceeded eleven , from the evidence of the costal ribs , of which ten are preserved * slab figured by Eichwald , without indication that the first rib is the earliest , s last the latest of the series .
The earlier vertebrae in the associated column 2 % inch long , but the length diminishes till in the last dorsal it is less than an inch .
The sacral centrums may be a millimetre longer .
Anteriorly , the of the centrum is rounded from side to side without a trace of infero-lateral !
S\gt ; and the sides of the centrum are compressed transversely .
On the anterior r angle of the side of the centrum , close to the articular margin in front , is 'd the parapophysis .
4 s 2 It is well seen in the second dorsal preserved on the left side , vertically ovat .
form , and separated by a notch from the pre-zygapophysis .
The transverse v|$ through the sides of the centrum is -j % of an inch .
But the transverse measure^ over the parapophysis is about 1 inch .
In the second vertebra , the trans m process is compressed from above downward , directed horizontally outward on a , Ve !
with the neural canal , placed towards the hinder part of the neural arch , ^ expanded a little transversely at its free end .
This process is 1 inch long , andallj ii- 0f an inch wide .
The anterior zygapophyses are in front of it , and the rura spine is chiefly developed behind if The neural spines of all the vertebrae are ion or less broken , and are conspicuously vertical , or approximate to the vertical posioi ] rather than the backward position .
This leads me to regard them all as lower dorsal and lumbar vertebrae .
become thicker and stronger in passing down the back .
As I have not been ale t compare the original specimen with other fossils in this country , the following osei vations are based upon the cast of it , preserved in the ^Museum of the koyal .
of Surgeons ( No. 314 ) .
The sacral ribs appear to be complete , they are singlarj strong , slightly contracted towards the middle , directed backward , 11 % motion They are much smaller than in the new specimen presently to be described , suposn them to be complete , as they appear to be , and of different specific type .
There is no evidence , from the cast , that any of the dorsal ribs are anchyjlced the centrum .
In the lower part of the vertebral column the centrums are somwi obliquely crushed , and , on the left side , the heads of the ribs appear to me to mi in contact with the neural arch , though a little displaced ; and , on the right sie , i lower dorsal ribs , though imperfect , are seen to be short , slender , and flattene ft ' above downward , from which I infer that if the ribs figured by Eichwald , h. plate 59 , fig : .
3 , belong to the same vertebral column , as he suggests , they mst referred to a position nob more posterior than the first five vertebrae of the leftide that , as the ribs are 10 in number , the specimen would appear to indicate nolle1 than 16 presacral vertebrae which carried ribs which might be classed as lor and the number of dorsal vertebrae may be greater , for the series of ribs si\gt ; ws indication of completeness .
This is in harmony with von Meyer 's view vertebrae must have been more numerous than the vertebral column mdicaes , cannot , with any probability , suggest the total number of presacral vertebrae)** ' probably not fewer than 19 , or more than 26 .
The broad vertebrae of the lowe do region are 6 in number .
They appear to have the ribs specially moditie , o ' they mioht be termed presacral or lumbar , rather than dorsal .
I suppose t 6 vertebrae to have numbered 8 , the dorsal vertebrm 12 , the lumbar vertebrae ( J ; would give the total of 26 presacral vertebrae .
It is a characteristic of Theriodonts , shown by specimens which I obtained in 1889 , to have the lowe \lt ; u vertebrae specially modified , at least in their ribs , and the number ot ^ vertebrae appears to be greater than in allied reptiles .
The numerous ver*r AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA , 683 Mirs show that Deuterosauria do not approach some of the allied aquatic i length of vertebral column .
The Sacrum .
isolated specimen of sacrum preserved at St. Petersburg may possibly belong to rent species from that indicated by Eichwald 's fossil .
It shows that the '8e were as deeply biconcave as in Anthodon , so that the concavities almost [ i the middle of the centrum ; and , as in the South African types , the outer tr part of the face of the centrum is comparatively flat , which gives an appear-f extreme excavation .
The two sacral vertebrse appear to be anchylosed jr on the ventral border , which is somewhat thickened ; but the prezygapo-are perfectly preserved in the second vertebra , as oblique concave facets which pward and inward .
The transverse width over them exceeds an inch ; an ?
ace of \ of an inch divides them , and the best preserved facet is of an \gt ; ng .
The size and preservation of these facets show that the sacrum , if osed , had not lost the independence of its individual vertebrae till ossification Fig. 4 .
pz .
, prezygapophyses .
fractured neural spine of second sacral vertebra .
growth were well advanced .
The base of the centrum is convexly rounded from to side , and deeply concave from back to front .
The whole of the side of the sbra is occupied by the sacral rib .
Both it and the neural arch are firmly anchy-1 to the centrum , though the line of union of the rib can be traced .
IJVbat ains of the rib to the first vertebra is relatively small and is a triangular process of an inch deep , compressed from side to side , rounded above , flattened below , i a foramen in the middle of the underside , at its junction with the centrum , but outlet for its vessel is not seen .
This process is directed transversely outward , l at the external fracture is so compressed that it may be doubted whether it ild have reached the ilium , so that it may be classed as sacro-lumbar and compared to the first vertebra in the sacrum of The second vertebra much stronger sacral rib , the attachment for which is about 1^0- inch deep i antero-posterior extent is l-f6 .
It is directed outward and downward , flattened the base , with the usual transverse foramen at its junction with the centrunJHl compressed above , and the channel form on its anterior side is more marked thap the preceding vertebra .
The transverse measurement of the fragment is rather than 3i inch . .
The neural canal seen in front is small and circular , inch in diameter , y zygapophyses are strong , short processes which hang forward , so that the arch b0# them is concave .
The base of the neural spine is sub-quadrate and inclined up^ and backward .
The distinctive feature of this specimen is in the angular ridge wid margins the antero-superior angle of the sacral rib , which is not seen in the tin example of the sacrum .
Sacrum united to the Pelvis .
( Plate 62 .
) The two sacral vertebrae in the specimen with the iliac bones attached are 3r similar in general aspect , whether seen from above or below , the difference betee them being due to the great development of the sacral ribs in the first vertebra.m to the large size of the articular face of the first vertebra , which is 2 inches wid a compared with the posterior face of the second vertebra , which is 1-^- inch wide ; m as there is a corresponding diminution in depth , there is some reason for conclmm that the tail of the animal was small , though no caudal vertebrae are known t b preserved .
The articular face of the first vertebra is encroached upon by the sacral b ; which contribute the lateral parts of an articular surface with the centrum in front ( \#163 ; .
; sr .
) , which is thus made concave from side to side by the inclination of the sacral bs The centrum presents the usual deeply excavated fish-like anterior concavity , see i other specimens .
The depth of the centrum from the neural canal downward is f inch .
The width of the articular facet upon the sacral rib on each side is inch , 'h ( sr .
) rib is perfectly preserved on the left'side , where it is seen to be directed downvrc outward , and slightly backward .
It is 3 inches long , measured at the base , and abu a quarter of an inch longer measured in the middle .
The rib is flattened in front , suit what contracted behind its articular surface with the preceding vertebra , and imprae superiorly towards its junction with the neural arch , as though forming a channefo the sacral nerve .
This impression defines the superior surface , which is transveisl straight and continuous with the shoulder of the neural arch , which is simiM ; fully inch wide , though the bone expands transversely to half as much afb at its outward termination , in an oblique truncated surface , which articulates it ] the ilium .
This superior surface of the sacral rib is somewhat rounded from sid t( side , convex from above downward at its junction with the neural arch , and con\lt ; v\lt ; from within outward as it descends towards the ilium .
The vertical depth of thebl AtfD CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
685 ie vertebra exceeds 1^ inch , and , owing to the concave inferior contour , it te speedily to -ft inch , but at the external junction with the ilium its depth t 2 inches* Its inferior surface is convexly rounded , and measures about from front to back externally , where its margin comes into contact with the margin of the second rib .
At the junction of the inferior surface with the o , the bone is flattened , and there is a foramen on the under side , which appears i the line of suture ( fig. 3 ) , and placed behind the middle of the sutural border , .ht rib is somewhat depressed and distorted , but apparently a line joining the tno-les at which the ribs meet the iliac bones would pass below the middle of trum , and the base of the rib apparently descends to a level with the line of between the ilium and pubis , and its anterior margin is on a level with the r border of the ilium as preserved .
The transverse measurement over the ribs is now 5| inches , and appears to have been 6 inches originally .
The e vertical distance over which the rib extends is 3 inches .
The second sacial similar when seen from above , except that it is narrower at its junction with ural arch , owing to the existence of a large oblique posterior area external to iral canal on its posterior aspect .
The rib is compressed from above downward , ; in the middle it only measures about inch , but it expands outward to a of about 1-j^ inch , and is conspicuously produced backward at its junction with um , so that the antero-posterior measurement there is 1 ^ inch .
Seen from these sacral ribs have the aspect of being extended outward horizontally , and e almost entirely above the central pit in the middle of the centrum .
Thus cond rib is very small as compared with the first .
Its extreme transverse rement on the left side from the middle of the centrum is 2y-Q inch .
There is ication of a third sacral rib having been attached to the very thin posterior Df the ilium , which is in marked contrast with the thick anterior part of the " io or ~io inch thick , which supports these two ribs .
5 neural arch shows a transversely ovate neural canal in front of the first sacral Dra , and a circular canal at the back of the second .
The base of the arch has jpect of leaning somewhat forward , and in the first vertebra it appears to enter the centrum into the summit of the inter-vertebral articular surface .
The ior zygapophyses are strong , directed well forward , almost external to the neural and concave from within outward ( pz .
) .
But the posterior zygapophyses are very i smaller , and are only separated by the width of the base of the neural spine , transverse measurement of the former is about l-n\gt ; inch , and of the latter about ich .
The neural spines ( ns .
) are remarkably strong .
The first rises l-j^y inch above summit of the neural canal .
It is inclined a little backward , and measures nch from side to side , and from back to front .
It contracts a little from back to t toward the summit , and shows a short median ridge towards the base , flanked two lateral ridges , which ascend from the pre-zygapophyses .
But transversely , hone widens towards the summit , so that the transverse measurement is yo inch , owing to the formation of blunt ridges or tubercles .
The second neural saW similar , but narrower , and its summit is less conspicuously truncated .
The second vertebra shows at the hinder face of the neural spine three ridgesg those in front of the first vertebra .
The outer two rise from the zygapophyses | converge as they ascend .
The antero-posterior measurement in the line of the k pophyses is 2 inches .
This is exactly the measurement in the median line of theL of the centrums , which are moderately convex from side to side , and very concave from front to back .
In the stoutness of the neural spines , as in the formj development of the first sacral rib , there is a certain resemblance to though the spinous processes are much smaller .
In the mode of union of theib with the centrum and neural arch , there is something to suggest Nothosaurus .
y fication is complete , and the sutures are practically obliterated , though their poti0 can be distinguished .
Dorsal Vertebrae .
Professor Alexander Stukenberg , of the University of Kasan , submits 1 Dr. Karpinsky a small series of Permian bones , at the time of my vis \ St. Petersburg , and I then made the following note on their characters .
The remains consist of a series of four consecutive vertebrae from the anteriona of the dorsal region , with ribs , which give evidence of capitular and tubenl articulation ; and there is an imperfect bone which closely resembles an ilium in in but wants the superior margin , and shows a notch of small size at the angle betet the two inclined articular surfaces , which are presumed to indicate the pubisar ischium .
Nothing like this is seen in any of the other examples of ilium wh have examined , so that the character may indicate a new species .
In these vertebrae the centrum is inch long .
It is deeper than wide , with !
base flattened , more than inch wide in the middle , slightly concave from froi back , with the basal ridges becoming stronger at the posterior end .
The sides oft !
centrum are nearly vertical , but convex a little downward .
They are concave 0 front to back .
The articular face is vertically ovate , with a sharp margin .
II posterior border is much more convex laterally , but in no case is the articular sifa exposed , and there is no evidence whether it is flat or concave .
The depth o:t centrum is here less than its length , and equal to the width of the articular face The neural arch is strong , with well developed transverse processes , which e^ci horizontally outward , and a little backward , and expand a little in the an# posterior direction at the free end .
The process is half-an-inch long , and has a tm verse extension outward , measuring from the median line of the vertebra , of one \amp ; c The neural spine is compressed from side to side , and directed upward and backer with the anterior border straight , and the posterior border convex , so that it wi\#174 ; from ijnjth of an inch to about ^th of an inch .
The summit of the spine is broe though but little appears to be lost , and its height above the base of the centrui 1 and classification of the fossil reptilia .
3d is 2-njth inches .
The neural arch gives off strong zygapophyses , which at tve vertical facets , and afterwards have the facets horizontal .
The pre-)hyses are directed forward and upward in advance of the transverse process ; jterior zygapophyses have the aspect of being developed from the neural md , although covered by the pre-zygapophyses of succeeding vertebrae , are tly less conspicuously developed .
The summit of the zygapophysial facet nch above the base of the centrum .
The antero-posterior distance over the ihyses is about 1 ro inch .
Hence the vertebrae have a slender appearance when 3d with the anterior vertebrae referred to Deuterosaurus by Eichwald .
Fig. 5 .
3r dorsal vertebra .
2 .
Earlier vertebra .
The articulation ( ?
) on the centrum is hypothetical .
diagram of the anterior face of a vertebra , with a fragment of a rib articulated .
4 .
An early i\gt ; 1 rib , showing the longitudinal groove , and the deep narrow capitular articulation , which may ter-central .
J facet on the centrum for the head of the rib is not clearly exposed .
It appears been near to the anterior border , and may be judged of best by the figures of rtieular extremities of the ribs , which were compressed from front to back and headed , though they do not define its relation to the suture between the urns .
The notch between the heads and tubercle of the rib is very small , and ace^8 are \#169 ; almost equally deep .
^cccxciv.\#151 ; b. 4 t The parapophysial head , for the side of the centrum extends inch beyona diapophysial facet for the transverse process , in a small rib where the ext .
measurement over the head of the bone is 1^-q inch ; but in another specimen , diapophysial facet is vertical instead of oblique , and the parapophysial process deeper , so that the vertical measurement as preserved is lj inch , and the pie articulating with centrum appears to be imperfect .
The excavation beneat ; $ diapophysial articulation is prolonged backwards as a groove , on the hinder side | rib , which is otherwise vertically ovate in section , like a rib of tic the posterior groove somewhat recalls .
Its depth is about -2-q inch , and its 2 % inch .
The centrum m this series of vertebrae is relatively longer tbi Eichwald 's earliest vertebrae of the lower dorsal column , and I infer that itan from a more anterior part of the vertebral column , but there is nothing to srge reference to the same species .
The associated flattened ilium is 2-x % inches wide as exposed at the inferior arfeul end .
The vertical notch is exactly in the middle of its articular border , about in wide , and somewhat higher .
Its superior part is broken , but , as preserved , it 3 inches high .
Both anterior and posterior margins are concave , and it is l^in wide in the least transverse measurement in the middle of the bone .
The every reason to think that the transverse measurement of the superior crest soi exceed the tranverse measurement at the articular end .
The bone is flatom concave from above downward , and the part which is lost presumably gave attach to the sacral ribs .
The only vertebra which may probably be referred to is figutd von Meyer , loc. cit. , plate 15 , figs. 1-4 , a lower dorsal with the centrum S incHoi The Humerus .
The only specimens of this bone known to me are those figured by Kf^i Von Meyer , and Tratjtschold .
These fragments differ chiefly in size , and vty little in character that all might be species of the same genus , with the excepoi the small unnamed complete humerus figured by von Meyer .
Rhopalodon.\#151 ; On the supposition that the proximal and distal ends of the In\#174 ; * figured by von Meyer belonged to individuals of the same size , they indicat ti the bone was 7 inches long and inches wide at both the proximal andlil ends .
The short shaft was lj inch in diameter .
The ent-epicondylar foraiei seen on both sides of the distal end of the bone , and passes vertically through pjfl obliquely downward ; but in the proximal end it is seen to pass transversely frctt inner to the outer side .
This appears to show that the two ends can only be bi\#171 ; | into harmony by rotating through about a quarter of a circle , a condition th^fc remarkable since there is ho appreciable twist in the shaft of the small huae ( * Palseontographica/ vol. 15 , plate 18 , figs. 4\#151 ; 8 ) already mentioned , in which AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
689 foramina are represented which characterize the larger specimens .
This twist shaft if it really existed , probably indicates that while the humerus was i outward , its distal end was carried downward and backward , ze is a character of any value , it is probable that the larger specimens figured utschold and Kutorga are referable to ; and the smaller fragfigured by von Meyeii may all belong to Rhopalodon .
distal end of the humerus which I refer to , is the type of the Brithopus , figured by Kutorga .
Trautschold ( ' Nouv .
Mem/ Moscou , t. 15 , \gt ; figs. 4-7 ) has inverted the fragment of the proximal part of the humerus of osaurus , so that the proximal end of the bone , notwithstanding its great ; rse expansion , is really very imperfect , as I have determined by comparing ginal specimen at Kazan with other types of Anomodonts in this country , oken surface beneath the numbers 4 and 5 on the plate is the constricted shaft humerus , and not the fractured proximal end , as it appears to be in the figure .
The Pelvis of Deuterosaurus and of Rhopalodon .
pelvis , in the Russian Permian Theriodonts , has hitherto been known only the acetabular region , figured by Eiohwald and by von Meyer .
Those tens indicate two widely different generic types , which may belong to distinct 3S of animals .
I have examined these and other materials , and , by lemoval of atrix , have obtained the complete ilia in association with the sacrum ( Plate 62 ) .
11 hereafter appear , this fossil is distinct from those previously known , in so far as 3 judged from the present preservation of the specimens .
As Eichwali/ s type is tionally important in indicating a very young specimen , I briefly re-describe its cters .
I regard it as the pelvis of Deuterosa , partly from the character of smur , partly from its generic diflerence from the type named Rhopalodon .
Ivis of Deuterosaurus.\#151 ; This fossil represented , in the \#163 ; Lethsea Rossica/ 57 , fig. 30 , was referred by Eichwald to Eurosaurus or Rhopalodon .
has the head of the right femur in the acetabulum , by which the nomenclature of .ones is determined as ilium , pubis , and ischium .
These bones are in loose union each other , as though the fossil belonged to a young animal , and it may therefore issible that it represents characters which are found subsequently modified as ication became more perfect .
The ilium is compressed from front to back , and t remains of it , is on the general pattern of the South African ilium refened isionally to Phocosaurus , ' Phil. Trans./ 1888 , B , Plate 21 , which may belong to Hied sub-ordinal group .
t is fractured at the transverse constriction above the acetabulum , where the 3ro-posterior measurement is 1^ inch , while the width of the bone at the broad haped suture with the other pelvic elements , does not exceed 3l\gt ; inches .
On y inches of the vertical depth measured on the visceral surface is preserved* What ; remains of the bone is nearly , though not quite , symmetrical ; foa posterior lateral contour appears to be inclined at an angle of about 45 degrees the anterior margin is a rather steeper incline .
The visceral surface is convex side to side .
In front , where the bone forms the upper half of the acetabulit has a singular trilobed appearance , owing to the development of a prominent su4 !
articular tubercle above the middle of the acetabulum , which gives that part \lt ; j u. bone a thickness of lj inch , and a width of lj inch .
On each side of it the ili^j compressed to a thickness of J an inch , and is excavated by a notch , which |g8e under the supra-acetabular wedge into the acetabulum on both sides , but is lllc larger on the pubic side than on the side towards the ischium .
The ischium and pubis are both represented by sub-acetabular fragments .
Ti ischium is the larger bone .
It may be very slightly displaced backward .
Its awe oblong superior surface 2j inches long , and slightly convex in length , is fully jljy deep towards the hinder border of the acetabulum , but thinner towards the os air It gives no indication of having been produced backward , while the lines of gwt upon the bone converge distally , and at the distal fracture it is compressed .
Ti union with the pubis was small and cartilaginous ; the anterior margin is fractrei but evidently diverged backward from the pubis , though this divergence is simiir i type to that seen in the formation of the comparatively large obturator forne which passes from within outward as it extends between these bones in artfo specimen , figured by von Meyer .
The proximal end of the pubis as preserved is triangular in lateral contour , rhi the oblong flattened articular surface is 2 inches long and 1 inch thick .
f'Vk remains of its anterior margin appeal 's to be straight , but the obturator borer concave , and recedes from the ischium , indicating , I think , that the obturator foim\lt ; was extremely deep and Plesiosaurian , supposing it to have been completed distil At the fracture of the pubis , 1^ inch below the iliac surface , the section of theboi is a small oblique triangular area , with its axis passing diagonally in ware at backward , measuring less than 1 inch long by less than half an inch thick , hi appears to be some similarity in the form of pubis and ischium of this type , an .
tJ same bones in Ichthyosaurus , which is especially indicated in the straight aosrr margin of the pubis , and the narrow proximal union between the pubis and ischin and there would be a certain resemblance to the Ornithosaurian type , only irth group the antero-posterior constriction of the pelvis is never above the acetablui but either opposite to it or below it , and the pubis and ischium are more united These bones could only have enclosed a circular acetabulum as a consequeee completed ossification .
The large size which appears to be indicated ior the obtvat foramen , would probably refer this fossil to a distinct genus from the specimen fit # by von Meyer , which has a nearly circular acetabulum with a very small obtr\amp ; t foramen , passing through the small pubis towards the large compressed isclW Von Meyer , apparently , did not suspect that much was lost from the supri* AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
of the ilium .
The specimen represented in the ' Palaeontographica , ' vol. 15 , igs 3 and 4 , has the ilium remarkably constricted from side to side above the cetabular process , so that the transverse measurement is 1 inch , while the jment across the bones in the middle of the acetabulum is 3J inches .
This , y , caused him to compare the pelvis with that of , in which there t appear to be a superior crest to the ilium , and he refers to the foramen in the JB resembling that in Dicynodon and Lizards .
There is a sufficient general Lance between the specimens respectively figured by Eichwald and von Meyer , v that they may be harmonised as different generic modifications of the rpe .
Fig. 6 .
Right acetabulum .
supra-acetabular wedge ; i. , ilium , defined by suture ; p. , pubis , partly defined by suture ; is .
, ischium .
Institute of Mines , St. Petersburg .
sometimes happens that the sutures between the pubis and ischium are rated , and von Meyer states that it is difficult to tell whether the pelvis ned of two bones or three .
There is no doubt that , as in Ornithosaurs , the dosis is much more complete between the pubis and ischium than between these !
and the ilium ( fig. 6 ) , but with the aid of a magnifying glass it may be traced ' lines which are suggested by the separation of the bones in Eichwald s figure , the new specimen , lent me from St. Petersburg ( Plate 62 ) , both right and left iliac s are present in fair preservation , but removal of the matrix has shown that they n contact with two sacral ribs .
The specimen is distorted , by pressure in folding rocks , as in so many of the fossils from South Africa .
On both sides the blade of ilium is obliquely inclined to the vertebrae at the same angle , and , although the contact with the sacral ribs is not very close , it is doubtful whether this obliqu entirely attributable to pressure .
The blade of the ilium is flat , and inclined upy so that the bones appear to have approximated superiorly .
The superior margin plate , which is massive in front and thin behind , is straight , and inclined so th j hinder margin rises to a level with the middle of the neural spine , and its ary margin is on a level with the middle of the centrum .
The blade of the bone ex n in a fan shape having a distinct superior anterior process , and a longer s%j posterior process .
The contour of each limb is rounded at the extremity .
Thela appears to have a length exceeding 3S inches , and a height above the supra-acehu prominence of 2S inches .
The anterior margin is moderately concave , and the pos\#187 ; margin is a deep notch ( fig. 4 , Plate 62 ) , which gives to the posterior process \lt ; \ blade a depth of a little over an inch , and constricts the waist of the bone abo\ j acetabulum , to a middle length of If inch .
The consequence of this is that morel half of the antero-posterior extent of the blade of the bone , lies behind a line ( *a vertically from the middle of the acetabular prominence at right angles t superior border , and this constitutes a remarkable difference from all Anomco hitherto known .
On the left side the anterior extremity of the blade of the ilin curved outward almost imperceptibly as it extends forward , but there is no om curve of the hinder extremity , which is not quite perfect .
On the right sid outward direction is manifest at both ends of the blade , which is slightly etc in length .
The articular portion of the ilium is equally remarkable for its backward gi*v Its transverse measurement is about 3 inches , and it is about inch thick i middle of the supra-acetabular process , which is one inch wide .
This procsi defined anteriorly by a slight notch , which separates it from the pubic border \gt ; acetabulum .
Posteriorly there is a very wide and deep notch , nearly an incWc which has the effect of giving the posterior border of the ilium above it the asfc a long , slender , rounded process .
As the bone is placed , this process is nearhl zontal , over an inch long , convex in length , with the convexity prolonged hack* by the ischium , a small fragment of which remains in contact , though the sepai of the remainder of the ilium has followed the line of suture .
I have seen noffi specimen in which there is anything like the posterior notch now described , hi superior margin of the ilium inclines forward in JPctreictsauvus ) the axis of th .
% !
is oblique in all Anomodonts , and all have the posterior border of the iliuBff deeply concave than the anterior border .
A similar backward developmentj| blade of the ilium is found in the South African Theriodont Cynognathus .
* ; - There are three generic types of pelvis from the Permian of Russia whidi belong to four species .
The Femur of Deuterosaurus .
The examples of femoral bones indicate two or three generic types .
First , #1 AND CLASSIFICATION OF TFtE FOSSIL ItEPTlLLA .
ge distal end of a femur , figured by Eichwald , plate 59 , fig 4 , which has small portion of the shaft preserved , and is similar in character to the bone of e drawn by von Meyer , * Palseontographica , ' vol. 15 , plate 19 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 .
The jondylar surface of this specimen is only a little less than 5 inches wide , is a considerable concavity between the condyles on the under side , below % foramen is represented as opening .
A larger foramen is similarly placed in mums .
The superior surface also is concave , so that the distal end has a are character .
The greatest antero-posterior depth of the condyles is about les ; and on the inner side the shaft Is inflated , and on the outer side it is \#171 ; d. Only four inches of the shaft are preserved , and at the transverse fracture ion is regularly oblong .
This I refer to Deuterosaurus .
oximal fragment which might well belong to this type , is figured and described lutschold ( *Nouv .
Mfiin .
Soc. Imp .
Not .
IMosc .
, t. 15 , plate 6 ) .
Something mn 10 inches of the shaft are preserved , with a head 5 inches wide , and the listal end only little smaller than the fractured surface of von Meyer 's bone .
, therefore , thought of these specimens as presumably indicating a femur about les long or possibly rather more .
The head of the bone shows a remarkable tive character in the external crest being compressed and defined by a ity on the under side of the bone ] but the crest is not directed appreciably rard .
At the base of the concavity on the posterior or inferior aspect , at less than 4 inches from the proximal articulation , is the small trochanter , which marginal , as in Saurischian reptiles , or in some smaller Russian femora , but .s like a truncated tubercle on the under side of the shaft , inclined towards nder border .
This position of the trochanter seems to me the most distinctive ate of this Russian femur , which , however , less closely resembles the type of found in Pareiasaurus than do some smaller Russian femoral bones from these ian deposits .
The smaller femur figured by Trautschold cit. , plate 5 , ,.2 , and 3 ) , and referred by him to Platyops , appears to be formed e same plan , so that both might belong to the same genus or to allied geneia .
The Skull of Rhopalodon ( Plate 63 ) .
nearly complete skull is preserved in the Museum of the Institute of Mines at 'etersburg , which corresponds closely in size with the fragment of a lower jaw on h Fischer founded Rhopalodon JVangenheimi .
The depth of the lower jaw is same , the number of teeth in a given length of alveolar margin is the same , and teeth are similarly club-shaped , though they appear to be relatively larger , so the interspaces between them are small .
I have therefore identified this skull 1 Fischer de Waldheim 's species .
a proportion and general aspect there is a general resemblance to the skull of the th African Dicynodont Ptychognathus .
The nares , however , are not lateral , and appear to have been terminal , as in De , though the extremity 0fB snout is broken .
The temporal vacuities , instead of meeting superiorly in a m ** parietal crest or ridge , appear to have been roofed over transversely , more manner of Kistecephalus .
And there is some evidence , though by no means CW conclusive , that the lateral post-orbital vacuities were partially closed by bone that the skull in this post-orbital region may have approximated to South Afrar , types like Gorgonops and Pareiasaurus ; though the bones were neither sculpture in the latter genus , nor smooth as in Procolophon .
The large circular orbits , o , defended with sclerotic plates , are vertical , and placelar backward in the skull .
The parietal foramen , pf .
, is almost as far backward i is possible , as in Deleterosaurus .
The vertical occipital plate is only pierced by the W triangular foramen magnum , similar to that already drawn by yon Meyer ( ' Pal^ .
tographica/ vol. 15 , t. 21 , fig. 3 ) .
The palate appears to have been closed , exjpt for the palato-nares , which diverge backward from between the great canine teeth The teeth can only be compared with those of the South African Theriodont Eepilia described by Sir it .
Owen .
The upper surface of the skull , seen from above , is a long triangle ( Plate 63 , fig3 ) , Its base is formed by the occipital plate , which is concave from side to side ; but dided on its upper border into two lateral parts by a prominent rounded median tubcls which is placed behind the parietal foramen .
On the right side , in which the presrva tion appears to be most perfect , the measurement from the median line to the suara border of the bone , laterally , is 1^ inch , so that the transverse superior widit ii 2^ inches ; though the occipital plate widens as it extends downward .
The muai convexity on the roof of the skull ( f. ) is prolonged in front of the parietal forame fo about an inch in length , with a width of more than half an inch ; but external tolia convex area , which is defined on each side by a lateral depression , the roof bofio the head behind the orbits is concave , though the posterior border is slightly rouilec The superior border of the orbit is moderately convex from front to back .
Aith orbits converge forward , the transverse measurement at their hinder borders is sou 3 inches , while at their anterior border it is about 1 inch .
The width immeditel ] in front of the orbits is 1-j^ inch ; and the width rapidly attenuates forward , thagl as the external film of bone , which was thin , has scaled from off the skull , it prolbl ; exceeded the -/ oths of an inch width , which is the transverse measurement alth anterior fracture , behind the nares .
This long narrow nose is moderately convt length , with two small parallel ridges in its median line , apparently upon the asa bones , and a lateral ridge on each side , which separates the superior surface front * flat lateral almost vertical pre-orbital region ; so that there is a general resembno superiorly to the triangular form of the skull in Deuterosceurus .
The bones which form the roof of the skull are not all defined with Sipl$ distinctness .
The parietal bone ( p. ) appears to be a triangular , or rather five-P6* and classification of the fossil reptilia .
ion less than one inch wide , in the centre of which the parietal foramen is nt of the parietal is the frontal bone , though the suture which separates them e.ry conspicuous .
The frontal bone is paired , and combines with the parietal to achment to the post-frontal ( pt.f .
) , which arches over the post-orbital vacuity back of the orbit , resembling Deuterosaurus in its large development , though tly conditioned .
There appears to be a supra-orbital ossification , but the r suture is not clearly demonstrated .
The frontal bones appear to terminate | inches in front of the median occipital tubercle .
Above the orbit they are jd laterally by the pre-frontal bones ( pr.f .
) ; and for 2 inches or more the front snout is roofed by the pair of nasal bones .
lateral aspect of the skull is flattened and somewhat oblique , about 3 inches h ; but the anterior extremity is not preserved .
rami of the lower jaw meet together in front , and since the canine tooth 3 in front of the lower jaw , it is improbable that any material part of the snout The extreme length of the skull , as preserved , is 8j inches ; and its depth he orbit is less than along the alveolar margin ; but the lower jaw appears within the malar region beneath the orbit , being so contained on the left side , the skull is slightly distorted .
pre-maxillary bones are apparently not preserved , or if preserved their g sutures are not shown .
They were presumably small , and placed in the i line below the nares .
Hence no incisor teeth are seen , lateral alveolar border is apparently straight , and extends for a length of 2f inches , formed by the maxillary bone , which extends vertically upward to sal bone , and terminates posteriorly by an almost vertical suture inclined a little ard and downward , which marks its junction with the very large lachrymal i * 3 i lachrymal bone appears to have been vertically oblong , about lyu inch deep inch from front to back in the middle .
\gt ; skull appears to extend fully inches to 5 inches in front of the orbit , beneath .
is the malar bone .
That bone meets both the maxillary and the lachrymal , s about yq inch deep .
3 malar bone appears to be overlapped behind the orbit by the quadrato-juga , i extends backward to the quadrate bone , and descends in front of the articular d\#169 ; of the lower jaw , which is situate 6^ inches behind the anterior symphysis of nandible , measured from its posterior border , and below the hinder margin of \gt ; rbit .
ie orbit is slightly distorted by pressure ; on the left side it is vertically ovate on the right side transversely ovate .
It is remarkable for showing the^ circle of otic bones .
The sclerotic plates are well preserved on the right side only . ?
were thin oblong bones , in contact at their edges by fairly straight sutures , ncccxciv.\#151 ; B. 4 IT Their inner borders define a circle which was less than an inch in diameter individual plates appear , where largest , to be inch deep , and \#163 ; inch wide , they are not all of quite the same size .
The external half of each plate is co4 from above downward , and appears to have been in contact with the frontal W The internal half is concave in depth .
The number of bones is about ten in half k orbital circle , so that probably not more than twenty-two originally composed* sclerotic circle .
There is some evidence on the right side of the head , of the , st orbital area having been entirely , or almost entirely , covered with bone ( Platiga figs. 1 and 3 ) .
There is an impression behind the orbit , but whether produced y , skull structure is not clear ; and behind this there is another indefinable impredoi descending to the quadrato-jugal region .
It is situate as though it comprise ; th supra-temporal and squamosal bones , but there is no evidence which can be regsdei as conclusive that the former bone was present in that position .
The teeth in the maxillary bone admit of being counted both in the jaw and iith external cast of the bone .
In the jaw , on the left side , the number of teeth i:th alveolar border of the maxillary bone is seven , in a length of rather less ha 2 inches .
The diastema of half-an-inch between the first molar and the cane occupied by the root of a successional tooth , which was somewhat larger thai tl molar teeth , and much longer in its root ; and from its position has the asp t \lt ; being a successional canine , the root of which has not been entirely absorbed , iiei is an impression on the region of the diastema , as though a tooth may have istc upon it .
On the right side , the impression of the canine is distinct , but there apei to be two teeth behind it , one of which is in the position of the tooth which Iia ' alluded to , as in the position of a successional canine .
There is a diastema , hi( may indicate one tooth between the second of these impressions and the next ooi preserved , and then follow indications of five more teeth , so that there appear o i eight maxillary teeth in addition to the canine .
On the right side the whole \gt ; tl teeth are broken , being fractured obliquely ; but these fractures show that the o*wi were oblique , the axis of each extending inward and backward .
The impress\#174 ; the last tooth shows indications of serration on its anterior border .
The teen a large in their roots , separated from each other ; the antero-posterior measure over the four anterior is I^-q inch , and over the seven it is 1inch .
On the ig side there is a complete crown .
It is apparently the third or fourth molai projects from the alveolar margin about of an inch .
At the base it is rl -Jfc inch wide .
It descends straight , its external surface is convex , especially to3* the anterior side .
On the posterior part there is a delicate fluting .
The ffa|'lS posterior edge is finely serrated , by transverse serrations in the Megalos^ pattern ( Plate 63 , fig. 2 ) ; and the anterior margin is also serrated to ware t summit , but there is no serration towards the base of the crown .
The innd|$\#187 ; P the crown of the tooth is much flatter .
The external surface is convex downward , and the summit of the tooth inclines a little inward .
Theie is an ^ and classification of the fossil reptilia .
behind the serrations , shown in an impression of the next tooth but two , nay be reckoned the seventh molar .
canine tooth is only preserved upon the left side , though there is an impression 'tion of its root upon the right side .
The greater part of the root on the left broken away , and the extremity of the crown is not at present exposed , but gth of tooth and root probably exceeded 3 inches .
It was strong , directed a , rd , and apparently a little outward , following the inclination of the facial the head , which here curves outward , so that the tooth passes external to .ndible ( m ) .
The base of the crown , as preserved , is inch from front to Ld appears to be fully 1 % inch or more in thickness , and flatter on the external than on the internal surface .
The crown may have been 1| inch long ; the posed measures 1 \#163 ; inch .
The enamel is only shown on a part of the anterior Lty , which is convex , except that the convexity passes into a blunt ridge , becomes a series of serrations towards the end of the anterior border .
The Dr border is not exposed .
The enamel shows not only fine longitudinal ribs , are faintly elevated , but a more conspicuous transverse banding , which in its undulation gives a ripple-like ornament .
There is the faintest indication of me structure of the surface of the enamel in the molar tooth , where the \#187 ; rse bars seem to extend from the posterior serrations of the tooth , but I detect them on the anterior convexity of that crown so strongly as on terior part .
There is no evidence of any teeth anterior to the canines , though , te of preservation of the specimen does not enable me to form any opinion as there such teeth were developed .
The most anterior molar is on the inner side canine , and the lower jaw , as preserved , does not extend in advance of the , though it does appear as though it might have terminated , when perfect , i inch further forward than now , and such a position would have allowed space for incisor teeth .
There is possibly the impression of one such tooth , *uished by being of small size , directed obliquely forward .
palate is not exposed on the palatal surface of the bones .
The anterior nares no sign of median division , as exposed above the posterior symphysis of the jaw .
They form a small vacuity , concave above , with a median ridge descending ibove and concave below , with a broad open V form .
The width of this vacuity Dut twice its depth .
The palato-nares open between the canines ; they are id by the vomerine bone ( compare Eichwald , * Lethsea ftossica , plate 58 , fig. 7 ) .
are vacuities 1^ inch long , as exposed on the superior internal surface of the 3 , narrowing anteriorly and posteriorly , with a width in the middle of about inch , bounded externally by the maxillary bones .
They necessarily diverge ard .
The palate forms a triangular area behind them .
Its surface is divided by lian ascending ridge into two triangles , which are concave from side to side .
The er part of the palate is manifestly formed by the transverse bones , which extend aversely , and descending from strong buttresses abut against the coronoid region 4 v 2 of the lower jaw ; but over the whole of this completely closed palate only onet appears to extend on each side behind the palafco-nares , and that bone is the palai in front , but may be regarded as the transverse behind .
Fig. 7 .
Internal or superior aspect of the bones of the palate .
pn .
, palato-nares ; pi , palative bones ; tr .
, transverse bone ; mn .
, mandible ; the jaws are not sbvi The back of the skull presents an aspect intermediate between that of and Crocodilus .
The skull has a transversely broad occipital plate above the magnum , while its base below that foramen contracts from side to side as it desti and extends forward to the pterygoid region , though unfortunately the hone-tfei* lost from this area below the foramen magnum , and its anatomy is only knowdw the internal sutures displayed by the impressions of the missing bones .
It kt , j nient to commence the description from the inferior surface .
It has been sewl the lateral termination of the transverse bones has a transverse width o ies ( compare Rhopalodon Murchisoni ( Fischer ) , ' Lethaea Rossica , ' plate 58 , and that , although slightly oblique , the wedge-shaped external thickening is lore nearly vertical than in the Crocodile , and presents a flattened posterior jke inferior margin of which is concave , and which meets the base of the ise in a median transverse suture .
From this arises the basal region of the Its transverse width just above the pterygoid bones is lro inch .
Owing tate of preservation , it is difficult to be certain of the limits and identification e bones .
In the median line this basi-cranial region is 1^ inch deep to the Fig. 8 .
Posterior aspect of skull of Rhopalodon .
ietal bone ; ip .
, inter-parietal ; 80 .
, supra-occipital ; Fm .
, foramen magnum .\gt ; BO .
, ex-occipital , [ uadrate ; pt .
, pterygoid ; tr .
, transverse ; BO .
, 'basi-occipital ; BS .
, basi-sphenoid ; m. , mandible .
ital condyle , and the transverse width over the wedge-shaped area , from which 1m of bone which covered it is partly lost , is 2-^j inches superiorly .
This longi-ial mass appears to be divided transversely by two sutures , which lead me to ose that it comprises the basi-occipital , BO , basi-sphenoid BS , and pre-sphenoid ents of the skull .
The basi-occipital portion , if rightly identified , is very short badly preserved , and shows upon the left side indications of a transversely ovate Lyle , which was separated from the condyle of the opposite side by a small savity .
That condyle is not preserved , nor have I the advantage of studying the exte * covering of rock , which has been broken away from the occipital plate .
The widh this condylar surface as exposed is less than half an inch , and I estimate thr showed when complete and undistorted a transverse condylar width which but \[\ exceeded one inch .
The condyle figured by von Meyer , 'Palseont./ bd .
15 p * 21 , fig. 3 , appears to have been wider , and may belong to the genus Dinosaul The antero-posterior extent of the basi-occipital in this skull of Rhopalodon did t I believe , exceed inch .
The basi-sphenoid was much longer , measuring nearly^ inch in length .
In the middle , close together , are the casts of two blood vessel0f small size , in the position which is usually occupied by the internal carotid artei !
S The bone in front of the basi-sphenoid which appears to reach to the pterygoids imperfectly exposed .
In the crocodile a plate of the quadrate bone laps along le side of the brain case , with a contour scarcely distinguishable from this specinn But I see no reason for identifying the lateral flanking plate of this fossil with he quadrate .
It lies below the ex-occipital and squamosal .
The ex-occipitals extad transversely outwards , and abut against lateral bones which continue the arch of he side of the skull upward , forming the inner wall of the temporal vacuity ; there he , presumably the squamosal bone .
The transverse measurement of the ex-occipiti is To ' inch .
It is directed outward horizontally , appears to be compressed from fronto back with its inferior border concave ; and its superior border is concave so a to make the depth of the bone externally about half an inch .
There is an appearsce as though a vertebra had been in contact with the basi-occipital , and had left k a small foramen exposed ; though from the similarity of the matrix to the textrn of the bone when broken , it is difficult to be sure whether the occipital condyle was ot formed of the basi-occipital and ex-occipital bones , and whether the surface beloi is not the inferior tuberosity of the basi-occipital bone .
The supra-occipital is a large ossification , which extends horizontally across he back of the skull for about 3 inches .
Its superior border is defined by a horizocal transverse suture , and the bone is about inch deep .
At the sides of the foraien magnum it is compressed , so as to margin it by sharp edges , which approximate aspect to the condition of posterior zygapophyses .
The bone is concave from sidrto side .
The superior suture which limits it is somewhat sinuous .
Above it is the imr-parietal plate , lyg- inch deep in the median line , which is traversed by a verfeal median ridge .
It overlaps the supra-occipital by squamous union , and as it exteds outward , curves backward , and extends above the supra-occipital , on to the j nucha of the quadrato-jugal with the quadrate .
There is some indication that this k\#169 ; consists of two portions , an internal part which lies behind the parietal bone , wish would correspond in position to the inter-parietal , though the suture defining it , i k ever existed , is only to be doubtfully traced , and an external claw-shaped port\#174 ; behind the post-frontal which is in the position of the squamosal bone , Jtl and classification of the fossil reptilia .
s that the closure of the back of the skull may be attributed to the union of ; er-parietal with the supra-occipital and squamosal .
squamosal bone prolongs the curvature of the post-frontal bone downward , till jremity recurves forward above the quadrato-jugal .
Therefore there is some L for doubt whether the lateral post-orbital vacuities were covered with bone , e impressions which rest upon them are probably marks of vegetable substances , two rami of the lower jaw converge in front , but posteriorly the width over ndyles exceeds four inches .
Each ramus is slightly sigmoid , at least on its surface , curving inward at the posterior extremity , and a little outward in The external surface of the lower jaw is vertical , about 1-2 % inch deep , though hat less , apparently , in the middle length , owing to a slight concavity of the r margin ; and deeper behind , where the jaw depth exceeds inch , towards bital region .
The superior alveolar margin shows nine teeth , with an interspace might have contained another , without counting what may be a minute tooth r back in the jaw .
On the external cast eight impressions are counted , to must be added one from the evidence of the other side of the jaw .
There is \#187 ; r tooth with its root deeply sunk in the anterior extremity of the lower jaw , so b might be regarded as an incisor , rising before the extremity of the beak , in ?
sition of an incisor tooth at the extremity of the lower jaw .
It ascends so as 38 in front of the upper jaw canine , but was smaller than the canine , and is very r in character and position to the impression which may be traced in Fischer s of the extremity of the jaw oiRhopalodon Wangenheimii .
The jaw is compressed side to side , composite , consisting mainly of the dentary bone , showing the al bone internal to it , and the angular bone external .
) inferior angle of the jaw appears to be a little inflected posteriorly , in front of rticulation , but the preservation is too imperfect to determine whether there my approximation to the condition of the articular end of the bone found in l African Theriodonts .
There is no indication of the condyle of the quadrate The pterygoid bone reaches the inner side of the quadrate , but in this fossil [ uadrate would appear to be behind the pterygoid , unless the bone ( / ?\#163 ; .
) which s the basi-cranial axis laterally is pterygoid .
Though the rami are in contact in , and there appears to be a symphysis , the extremely thin alveolar margin is en away from the extremity of the jaw .
The external surface of the dentary is roughened with irregular longitudinal wavy striations and punctuied hnesses .
Scapular Arch o/ Hhopalodon .
he scapular arch in the Russian Deuterosauria has been imperfectly known .
VoN ster , in 1866 , figured ( ' Palaeontographica/ vol. 15 , plate 17 , fig. 1 ) a part of the flder girdle which shows the articular cavity for the humerus ; , and the blade of scapula is well preserved and shown in plate 18 , figs. 1 and 2 .
The extremity of the blade is absent , but is figured in plate 20 , figs. 1 and 2 , which may be referred an allied species .
These remains are sufficient to define the suture between t scapula and coracoid , which is seen to pass through the humeral articulation towai a foramen on the internal aspect of the bone , where it forms a considerable lun\lt ; 1 excavation , partly in the scapula , partly in what I regard as the precoracoid bo and entirely separate from the coracoid bone .
The contours of the precoracoid gp coracoid are not suggested by these specimens .
A fossil figured by Eichwald , m in his 'Lethsea Eossica , ' plate 57 , fig. 27 , as an undetermined bone , is certainly 'e shoulder girdle , nearly perfect , and completes a knowledge of the scapular arch of\#174 ; animal similar in size and organization to those indicated by Major Wangenhm von Qualen 's fossils , figured by von Meyer .
This is probably the specimen iw described by the kindness of the authorities of the Museum of the Institute of Mbs of St. Petersburg , which may have hitherto escaped recognition from being labe*d " Beckenknochen " and " untere rechte Seite , os pubis .
" In general aspect impression of the bones is remarkably like a pelvis in form , especially such a typas Professor Cope figures under the name Ery , but there is no evidece of median symphysis , and the foramen through the bone is not conditioned as inae os pubis , but exactly as in the specimen of the shoulder girdle attributed by on Meyer to Eurosaurus ( loc. cit. , plate 17 , figs. 1 and 2 ) .
On the whole , this Rusan shoulder girdle is more nearly paralleled by that of than by any Bynodont remains known to me .
The fossil consists of an impression of the shoulder girdle , which is impend towards the free end .
of the scapula , from which a length of one to two inches is si This , however , is partly the effect of a fracture and displacement after fossilizaon , by which the upper part of the blade has been forced downward over its middle pt , so as to give the visceral side of the bone an amount of curvature which isiofc natural to it , and exceeds that figured by von Meyer ( loc. cit. } plate 18 , fig-2)-There is an obvious truncation of the free end of the scapular impression by frac:re And when the longitudinal muscular lines on the superior border of the impressio of the bone are compared with those upon the proximal end of the blade of von Meyk b scapula ( loc. cit. , plate 20 , figs. 1 and 2 ) the amount of surface lost may be approxim^ly estimated .
This triangular impression of the shoulder girdle as preserved is 10 ii\#187 ; es long and 6Jr inches deep at the anterior end .
The larger part of the bone which pe the impression is lost , but there remains a considerable fragment , 6 inches long , chffl ) formed by the scapula , but showing the suture with the precoracoid , the precort^ foramen , and an indication of the humeral articulation , which is imperfect .
As preserved , the total length of the scapula indicated by bone , or its imprests is inches , to which I have inferred that as much as 2 inches may possibly be aded-The specimen would then equal in length the outline of a scapula figured by Meyer ( loc. cit. , ,plate 18 , fig. 1 ) which appears to be 9 inches , and the leng1 c ' ; the coracoid is 2j inches , as indicated by the impression .
The transveise widt and classification of the fossil reptilia .
inula measured on the under side in the line of suture with the coracoid and coid , is inches , and this suture passes nearly vertically down the bony mass , he suture the scapula becomes narrower as it extends backward .
No evidence Fig. 9 .
\ not .
size .
Right shoulder girdle based on an impression of the vise* time of humeral articulation restored from von Meter 's specimen .
outline indicates fractures , cic .
, acromion , restoration .
-served of a mesoscapular thickening of the bone like that seen in Paveiasauvus , there is some evidence of a mesoscapular margin , which is defined by a notch an inch long , which occurs just behind the suture with the precoracoid .
The beccxciv.\#151 ; b , 4 X least width , indicated at 3 inches above the suture with the coracoid is 91 .
The free extremity of the bone does not appear to have exceeded a width of 31 .
* but , as preserved , the width is less .
The inferior margin both of scapula andf0| is concave , with a special concavity indicated at the humeral articulation , is flattened in its blade , gently convex from above downward , as well as in I ^ with the inferior margin increasing in depth as it approaches the humeral artiJpl until from being under f inch in greatest thickness at the posterior fracture it bec^ If inch thick above the humeral articulation .
The superior portion of the which comprises the greater part of its surface , is flat and becomes more and \amp ; 6 compressed , so that the bone is thinner the nearer it approaches to the superior \#171 ; where it is about J of an inch thick .
One of the most interesting features of this scapula is seen upon the visceral suice of the free end , at its upper extremity , where the bone develops a longitudinal ik which , though imperfectly preserved , I suppose to be homologous with a correspond ridge much more developed in the South African fossil This ride is much more obvious than the striations in von Meyer 's figure , plate 20 , fi 1 indicate in that specimen , but very much less developed than in the South Alcan Cynognathus ; and is chiefly of interest as showing the first incipient stages of devop-ment of the superior margin of the blade of the scapula in the Theriodonts of otii Russia and Africa , which parallels the anterior border of the scapula in mammals The precoracoid is a comparatively large bone , and the coracoid is a small ossica tion , which can , I think , be traced by the line of suture upon the internal meld from which it appears that the precoracoid is sub-quadrate in form , with the anirio ; margin vertical , and the superior or clavicular margin moderately convex , within angle between them rounded .
The superior margin is more than 4 inches longaw the vertical or inter-clavicular margin is 5 inches long .
Only a small part oltb bone adjacent to the scapula is preserved , and the line of suture is marked bthi elevated ridge , which is also shown as obliquely crossing the extremity of *ro* Meyer 's specimen ( figured loc. cit. , plate 18 , fig. 1 ) .
The bone is compressed mfcw* directions , first , superiorly towards the clavicular margin ; and , secondly , anteorl ; towards the inter-clavicular margin , rapidly decreasing in thickness from the huisra articulation , to the superior border of which it appears to contribute .
Theare coracoid foramen upon the external surface , above the humeral articulation , is smalaw somewhat ovate , about ^ inch in diameter , conditioned exactly as in the example fign* by von Meyer .
It is 2S inches behind the inter-clavicular , or anterior margin *i'-over 3 inches below the clavicular , or superior margin .
It passes longitudidI backward through the bone to its inner surface , where it is prolonged as a k lunate excavation , which makes the inferior border concave , and is not border !
a all superiorly , though it is fully ^ an inch deep , and maybe measured at l|-to2 ii !
Jt in length .
The excavation lies nearly equally in the precoracoid bone and the sea\#171 ; b Owing to this excavation the foramen is nearly parallel to the external surface ottk AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILTA .
05 The inferior or visceral surface of the precoracoid combines with the coracoid a large , vertically oblong concavity , which covers its whole area like a shallow There is no reason for supposing that this appearance is due to accidental !
sion , and the bone appears to have terminated all round its margin in a very .
joracoid appears to have measured not more than 2f inches along its inferior 2i inches high at the articulation , and not more than 2\#163 ; inches deep in any its measurement , so that it was a small sub-quadrate ossification , with the and anterior borders convex .
In its small size it approximates to the 1 of the South African Theriodonts , which I obtained at Lady Frere ( Cynog- , in which , however , the precoracoid bone gives no evidence , as preserved , snormous expansion seen in this fossil .
It is a remarkable circumstance that line of the left scapula , figured by von Meyer , corresponds in size and form , a great extent in indication of the bone , and its impression , with this nt of scapula here described , so that it might almost be supposed that von , 's figure , plate 18 , fig. 1 , was based upon a reversed drawing of the same when they were in a more perfect condition .
All these specimens I lefer to lodon .
only large specimen of scapula from South Africa previously figured is that d to Dicynodon leoniceps by Sir R. Owen ( 'Cat .
South Af .
Rep. , ' plate 70 , That figure shows no more than a general resemblance to this Russian type , i the correspondence strongly suggests that the large specimen which rALD figures ( loc. cit. , plate 57 , fig. 26 ) as an undetermined bone of triangular is the blade of a scapula of not entirely dissimilar character ; but since what I X ) be the free posterior margin is 10 J inches wide , and what remains of the is a foot long , it would appear to indicate a fossil which might have been r twice the dimensions of the Dicynodon and it may be regarded as ning to the largest of the Russian Theriodonbs , and identified as piobably Lght scapula of Deuterosaurns .
The figure given by Owen { loc. cit. , plate 69 ) )ortion of a Licynodont scapular arch , shows that the precoracoid bone is per sd ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 179 , B , p. 492 ) much as in the Russian fossil , except that .erforation adjoins the scapular margin , and the result is , it pierces the scapula oblong notch , instead of forming the lunate excavation seen on the under side \#166 ; the Russian specimens .
In the South African fossils referred to Dicynodon , precoracoid is smaller , the superior margin of the scapula less expanded , and the soid larger and more produced downward , and it is only in that precoracoid is equally large , or that the shoulder-girdle , as a whole , can be com d with this fossil .
Seeing that the antero-posterior measurement of the scapular in that genus is 27 inches , and the length of the skeleton , including the tail , ^ 10 feet , it might be inferred , if the proportions were at all similar , that the 1 length of the Khopalodon was about 4 feet 6 inches .
4x2 # No trace of the tail has been discovered in Russian genera .
There is evidence to show that the tail was small , or , at least , that the first caudal vert6 had a smaller articular face than the last of the dorsal series ; so that the lengt { the animal may not have greatly exceeded three feet .
The scapular arch appears to be intermediate in between Pareiasaurus and the South African Theriodonts .
Of Deuterosaurus only the to , of the scapula is identified , and this appears to resemble the blade of the scapii 0 Dicynodon leoniceps .
Ulna of Rhopalodon .
There is preserved in the Institute of Mines at St. Petersburg , a proximal frage^t of an ulna obtained from the Santangulowsk Mine , in the Province of Ufa .
It isQ]v three inches long and is compressed from side to side , as though the radius w\#169 ; a more important element in the humeral articulation .
The transverse width belovthe articular surface is nearly 1-^q inch , but the thickness of the bone in the op pit ?
direction did not exceed of an inch .
The articular surface is somewhat obing , Fig. 10 .
Proximal end of ulna .
Not .
size .
oblique , concave from above downward , I^-q inch long , truncated at the proximal^ with a slight concavity on the anterior margin towards the radius , which appear .
be homologous with that in Pareiasaurus , though very much less developed .
^ concavity seems to me to determine the bone as the left ulna .
The posterior sua at the proximal end is flattened , and the anterior surface is more convex , converges somewhat backward to the rounded posterior margin .
There is no prokk tion of the bone proximally beyond the articular surface , so that the ulna is no:iWt \gt ; ed proximally than in a Lizard ; the only difference being in the proximal ion which is about ^ inch wide .
The posterior contour of the bone is convex , 5 anterior contour concave , so that the two borders approximate , and give the curved appearance .
At the distal fracture the bone is inch from front to Though more developed than in Eurycarpus , ' Phil. Trans./ 1889 , B , Plate 18 , ximal end of the bone is much less developed than in Pareiasaurus .
I have ain knowledge at present of the ulna in any of the South African Theriodonts .
bone may have been about six inches long .
large hone figured by Eichwald ( loc. cit. , vol. 57 , fig. 28 ) I regard as the radius terosaurus ; but of the ulna , or other bones of the extremities in that genus I sen no evidence .
Ilium of Rhopalodon .
ecimen of ilium belonging to the St. Petersburg Museum has nearly the whole proximal half of the bone preserved , but only shows the internal mould of the Fig 11 .
Contour of ilium .
Not .
size .
mansion of superior crestfracture .
The inferior angle is inferred to mark the division between the pubis and ischium .
ahular half , terminating interiorly in the broad V-shaped line of suture , with the 3r polvic bones .
If the lateral border , which is least concave is taken as anterior , the straight superior margin , which is three inches long , is interred to be parallel to the vertebral axis , then the vertebral direction of the ilium is inclined a lit , backward .
The superior blade is flat and smooth externally , and terminates in front in a sor what compressed margin which is moderately concave in depth , where it measit inches .
The depth from the posterior angle to the corresponding point of ischial suture does not appear to have exceeded 2 inches .
The posterior bordei not perfectly preserved , and may have been a little wider than the specimen indices in its present position .
As preserved the transverse measurement across the wais0f the bone is 1-3 % inch , and the transverse measurement at the ischio-pubic suturis 2fo inches .
The posterior surface is evenly convex from side to side , and slighy convex from above downward in its lower half , but in the upper half it appears tooe more concave in the thickened area which gave attachment to the sacral ribs , be remarkable point about this bone is that its vertical depth appears to greatly exced the length of the crest ; while the bone agrees with other specimens in haviaghe posterior border deeply concave , but appears to differ from other specimens in hang the anterior margin sharply pointed .
This will be evident by comparing the fig re given below with that of the type previously described .
It is a remarkable circm-stance that the diversity in form and proportion and character of the known remaii of the pelvis and femur is greater than that in other parts of the skeleton .
And tese characters probably differentiate more species than can be established on modba-tions of the skull .
Provisionally these types may all be referred to Rliojpalodon .
The Femur of fthopalodon and of Dinosaurus .
A second type of femur , preserved in the Institute of Mines at St. Petersbur , is only known from the proximal end , and I regard it as indicating a bone about 6 imes long .
The fragment preserved is 3 inches long , 2^- inches wide below the proxnal articulation , and about 1 inch wide at the distal fracture , where it is ^th icii thick .
It is figured at plate 61 , figs. 3-6 .
The outline of the proximal articulation is convex from within outward .
It insists of a transversely ovate articular cartilaginous area , more than an inch thick ( fi^ ) which is prolonged outward and downward on the summit of the outward crest , wkL is flattened above and concave below .
There is an inflation of the bone on the supiw surface , below the thickened articulation ( fig. 4 ) .
Both the inner and outer proxtwl margins are somewhat concave , but in such a way as to give the head of the bon aa inward direction .
The thick inner border is convexly rounded , and there is a siidar rounding to the external margin of the shaft , which is more compressed .
0i\#163 ; ( under side the area beneath the external crest is concavely excavated for a dist^ce of about lij inch , and the excavation terminates in a prominent trochanter ( fig%\#171 ; ^ft*i 5 ) , which increases the thickness of the bone from ^ inch to lxo ioch .
The of this trochanter is an ovate tubercle , t , which is prolonged down the shaJ|| AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPT1LIA .
Fig. 13 .
Posterior aspect of the left femur of a species of Rhopalodon.tm .
, trochanter minor ; slight* fractures .
Specimen figured by Eichwald , loc. tit .
, t. 59 , fig. 5 .
Fig. 12 .
Left femur .
Not .
size , fracture .
Divosaurus in a marine deposit with Terebratul ridge ( fig. 3 ) , defining a concave area on its inner side and a flattened area on its side , so that it makes the section of the shaft triangular .
This type of femur canii belong to the same genus as the great bone figured by Trautschold .
It is readily distinguished by the constricted form of the shaft , the great elevat of the trochanter , and the relatively great width of the proximal articular surface T regard it as referable to a species of Rhopalodon or Dinosaurus .
The left femur figured by Eichwald ( loc. cit. } plate 59 , fig. 5 ) is particularly valua ?
since it gives the length of the bone , and its characters as a whole ; for , although Ol *v proximal articular surface is lost , evidence from another specimen indicates that gs than half an inch of the length of the bone is missing .
As preserved , the femu b 7 inches long , and when complete did not exceed inches .
The shaft is remarks for its transversely oblong section , 1-j^ inch wide and 1 inch thick on the inner se the external thickness being a little less .
The under side is flattened , but he flattening passes distally into the concavity on the under side of the condyles , ad the superior surface is gently concave in length .
The shaft is margined on the aide between its inner and under sides by a ridge , intensified by crushing , which exteds from the inner distal condyle ( where its extremity is broken ) proximally to he superior trochanter , which is compressed from side to side , and appears to he margial like the inner trochanter in the femur of such Saurischian reptiles as Megalosam and its allies , and it is similarly placed towards the proximal end , although there3 a sufficient resemblance to the under side of the femur of Cratceomus to sugsst comparison .
The lateral trochanteroid process in the Russian fossil is broken , and the ke adjacent to it internally is slightly crushed , so as to appear flatter than it vas originally , and to make the trochanter more marginal .
The base of the trochatei is Iyq inch deep , by rather less than \ inch wide .
On its inner side is the vnaJ concavity , on the under side of the head of the bone , defined by the compression Iona above downward of the external crest of the bone , which is not developed intb European Saurischian Reptilia , though some trace of it remains in the South Afban Eushelosaurus , and it eventually becomes represented by the external prosna trochanter of that group .
This lateral compression of the external part of the sac of the femur is characteristic of all the terrestrial genera of the Anomodont alliace in which I have seen evidence of the bone .
The transverse width of the pfoxna end , as preserved , measured at an angle of 45 ' with the distal end , is 2 y2o inches the transverse width of the distal end , as preserved , is about the same .
The thicker of the distal end at the outer condyle is ly~o inch , while the thickness betweei tb condyles is inch .
The twist in the bone is not appreciable on the under sid\#169 ; on the upper side the oblique superior surface as it extends distally becomes natrwi and twists so as to become the nearly vertical external surface .
The width ofttt distal end is almost exactly one-half the width of the distal end of the large sPtc*^ figured by von Meyer , now regarded as which is a re\amp ; sjp AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
ig that the large femur probably did not exceed 14 inches in length .
The jnily likeness of this bone to the femur of at its proximal end is re interesting from the differences shown at the distal end .
For in the Russian iere is a moderately rounded trochlear extremity , indicating , I think , that the as carried in the body at an angle of 45 ' , whereas in Pareiasaurus the distal \gt ; s well separated from each other , are flattened and inclined to be concave ; ere is no trace in this Russian bone of the perforation in the distal end , which superiorly above and between the condyles in .
There is no }hat the inferior foramen represented by von Meyer ( plate 19 , fig. 2 ) in osaurus has any relation to the inter-condylar foramen of Pareiasaurus and jpus .
examination of this type may have some bearing upon the interpretation of l6 described as the humerus of Saurodesmus Robertsoni ( ' Quart .
Journ. Geol .
891 , vol. 47 , p. 166 ) , since the bone has several characters in common with the dont femur as now known , but it differs from this Russian type in the greater srse expansion of the proximal and distal ends , in the increased compression of ernal distal margin , and in the inward direction and greater development of ximal trochanter .
If the late Mr. Charles Moore 's investigations are taken rmininsr the ag ; e of the boulder at Linksfield from which it was obtained , as o o \gt ; f Rhaetic Age , the fossil may indicate the first occurrence of an Anomodont in the Rhaetic beds of Britain .
Tibia of Rhopalodon .
he ' Palaeontographica/ vol. 15 , plate 21 , figs. 9-11 , VON Meyer figured a frag-of bone which is stated to have some resemblance to the upper part of the of Nothosaurus , and to show no trace of a medullary cavity .
This specimen is , we , better understood by comparison with the tibia of , which has figured ( 'Phil .
Trans./ 1889 , B , Plate 22 , fig. 4 , and Plate 23 ) .
From that rison it seems a reasonable inference that the Russian bone is the proximal end bia .
There is a similar contraction of the shaft of the bone from the articular e downward , the same kind of longitudinal groove at the proximal end of the as is seen in Cryptobranchus , and some similarity in the truncation of the oial end by two inclined condylar surfaces , which are respectively internal and aal .
The Russian bone has the ridge on its fibular side much less developed is the median anterior ridge , which gives to this fossil a sub-triangular contour o proximal end , which is unlike the somewhat comma-shaped proximal outline of \gt ; one in Pareiasaurus .
As drawn by von Meyer , the fragment is 3 inches long , , inches wide at the proximal end .
It indicates a bone about 6 inches long .
Von er has also figured ( plate 20 , figs. 3 , 4 , 5 ) a fragment which he compared to the d end of the femur of Nothosaurus .
By comparison of the outlines of the distal ncccxciv , \#151 ; r. 4 Y fracture of the former fragment with the proximal fracture of this , it seems tow almost certain that these are portions of one bone , and therefore , that the seed !
fragment is the distal end of the tibia ; only yon Meyer has represented the poster instead of the anterior aspect .
Fig. 14 .
Tibia restored from von Meyer 's specimens .
If the distal end is compared with that of the tibia of ( ' Phil. 1* 1889 , B , Plate 23 , fig. 3 ) , it will be seen to have a similar reniform outline , fla\gt ; e\#171 ; behind , and convex in front ; though the Russian bone is relatively stouter , a distal articular surface is not concave .
The width of the distal end , as dr\#187 ; 0\gt ; VON Meyer , is 1-^r inch .
The distal articular surface appears from the fig e have had an oblique relation to the tarsus , which is not identical with ParetQf* and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILIA .
713 r t^e two fragments together they give the form of the bone , which is here i , of the natural size .
m was written , Dr. F. Kinkelin has had the kindness to compare these ats with each other .
Finding them to unite , he has obligingly had a cast of -jre tibia made , and sent to me with casts of most of the other specimens by yon Meyer .
These casts will be deposited in the British Museum .
] Fibula of Rhopalodon .
wald figured in the 'Lethrna Rossica/ plate 57 , fig. 29 , a fragment of bone , aes long , which I regard as probably the distal end of the fibula .
That cation rests upon the curved form of the fibula , which wTas found resting upon ral region of the skeleton of Pareiasaurus Baini , and the similar evidence of form of the bone in the skeleton of a Dicynodon , with the bones preserved in association , from the Baavian 's river , preserved in the Albany Museum , fibula in Pareiasaurus is large at the distal end .
At the proximal end it is jet .
It is necessarily shorter than the tibia in , owing to its it mode of union with the tarsus .
Eichwald 's fragment at the distal end is i wide , with a somewhat oblique and compressed articular surface , such as have given attachment to the tarsus , and the fracture in the middle of the ives a width of .\amp ; - inch .
The shorter tibial border is concave and inch 3 represented in the figure , while the moderately convex external border rather 3 3^ inches .
mg the fragments figured by von Meyer , * Palseontographica , plate 20 , 9 , 10 , 11 , is a small proximal end of a bone , broadly cordate in its proximal i , with only lj inch of the shaft preserved .
Its sides converge distally , on the lesis that it is a proximal end , and it terminates in a transverse ovate section h wide and inch thick .
There is a small proximal process developed .
It is sible to determine this bone with certainty without comparison ; but its blance in thickness to the bone just mentioned , led me to regard it as a possible nal end of the fibula .
The Foot Bones of Rhopalodon .
e only evidence of the extremities of the limbs is a single bone which Eichwald \#187 ; , plate 58 , fig. 12 .
It was regarded by him as a phalange , and compared to phalanges of Mastodonsaurus .
It has the general aspect of a phalange of a osaur .
The drawing indicates a bone liny in'h long , compressed from above lward , concave at the sides , expanded at the ends , with a transversely truncate tee at the proximal end , and a convex surface at the distal end .
These ends are aeh wide , and the bone is -a40- inch wide in the middle .
In proportion , it is similar 714 PROFESSOR H. Gr .
SEELEY OK TfiE STRUCTURE , ORGANISATION , to the metacarpal and metatarsal bones of Pareiasaurus , but is stouter than tl digital bones of Eurycarpus* and relatively shorter .
Its form suggests that it nr be metatarsal or metacarpal , its size is more like what might be expected in phalange of an inner digit .
The transverse measurement across five such bon would be 3j inches if they were in close contact , and this is the only indicate available of the possible dimensions of the foot in Rhopalodon .
Conclusion .
From this examination of evidence old and new it seems to me established that(1 ) .
The Russian Permian Reptiles discussed are closely allied to the South Afri\#174 ; types , but cannot be placed in the same subordinal groups .
( 2 ) .
The skull appears to resemble Placodonts and Nothosaurs in the structure } !
the palate , and has no feature in common with the Theriodontia ; although ue dentition is closely comparable to that of South African Theriodonts in plan , hits occipital aspect it resembles Plesiosaurs , Nothosaurs , and Placodonts so closely ato suggest that it may be a terrestrial representative of the Placodont group , no modification of the cerebral cavity in relation to the pineal eye is better paralleled Theriodontia than in any other group of animals .
( 3 ) .
The vertebral column is indicative of animals in which the tail was absen or short and the presacral region was long .
There are evidences in specimens at prent unfigured that this condition may have characterized some Theriodonts from Sith Africa ; and the presacral elongation of the vertebral column may be compared ith the condition in Nothosauria .
But while Nothosaurs have the vertebral articulaons for the ribs vertically deep and less divided from each other than among Pareiasaurns , the Russian types have the double headed articulation of the ribs which I belie\ to characterize most if not all Theriodonts , on the evidence of undescribed specimens already referred to , though the mode of articulation of the head of ih rifc in these Russian specimens is distinctive .
The sacrum is suggestive of ww N othosaurian bones , and of the Pareiasaurian sacrum in the developement of then st sacral rib , but it differs apparently from Theriodonts in including only two vertebv .
( 4 ) .
The shoulder girdle closely approximates to the Pareiasaurian and t\lt ; th\lt ; Dicynodont type in the flatness of the scapula and in composition .
( 5 ) .
The pelvis is less developed than in any of the South African types ; the wn is more Theriodont than Dicynodont , the pubis appears to he no more developed in Ichthyosaurus or Dicynodonts , but is typically blended with the ischiuw Saurischia , Ornithosaurs , and Anomodonts .
( 6 ) .
The humerus and fore-limb , as far as known , are similar to those of Dicynoen * I obtained in South Africa , further evidence of the skeleton of Eurycarpus , which shows ^ the limb bones , like the humerus , to diverge less from the Dicynodont type than at first was from the single specimen .
and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILIA .
715 The femur has much in common with Pareiasaurus , and the tibia has a similar ation of its proximal end , which suggests the configuration in Cryptobrctnchus .
he whole the resemblances seem to indicate a strong affinity between this group may be termed Deuterosauria , and the Placodontia and Theriodontia .
This , near affinity between the Theriodontia and the Nothosauria , but apparently 3S that the Theriodont dentition has originated from more than one source , semblances in parts of the skeleton between the Deuterosauria and Sauropterygia much less important , are suggestive of a more distant affinity between those of animals .
probable forms of the skeleton in the two genera described , may be gathered ie diagram outlines which exhibit the bones at present known , all drawn of :ural size and reduced , except the pelvis of Deuterosaurus , which is enlarged .
Deuterosauria are defined as Anomodontia , distinguished from the other known by having ( 1 ) the palato-nares divided by the vomer , without any hard palate mg over them .
( 2 .
) The canine teeth are serrated ( and large ) with incisor in front ( in Deuterosaurus ) and molar teeth behind .
There are temporal es , and a pineal foramen .
( 3 .
) There is a facet for the head of the rib on the e dorsal ) vertebra , and no proof that it was attached to the surface between ntrums in any vertebrae ; the tubercle is attached to a transverse process .
The dorsal ribs have no antero-posterior expansion .
( 4 .
) There are two sacral \#187 ; rse , ancliylosed .
( 5 .
) The ilium has a small crest without conspicuous anterior pment .
The acetabulum is imperforate , as in Dicynodontia and Ornithosauna .
mb bones and shoulder girdle are strong .
( 6 .
) The scapula is flat , s two genera appear to be the types of two distinct families , Deuterosauridae and dodontidse , distinguished by structure of the temporal region of the skull , which median parietal crest in the former , and is roofed over on the superior surface in inter .
In the former , the incisor teeth are strongly developed ; in the latter , ; ed lanceolate molars are strongly developed behind the canines .
Deuterosa urus is the skull compressed from side to side , with large transversely compressed or teeth .
The lachrymal bone is greatly developed .
The post-orbital arch is and situate below the orbit .
The quadrate bone is large , and developed below foramen magnum on the type of Placodus .
The vertebrae are biconcave .
The are long .
The sacral ribs are well developed .
The scapula is expanded^ at ree end .
The pubis and ischium diverge from below the acetabulum , there is a ra-acetabular articular wedge on the ilium .
R Has the skull more elongated and less deep , with the superior temporal vaeuit roofed with bone .
The orbit is relatively far back , defended with a circle of scler bones .
The incisors are not clearly evidenced .
The canines are large .
The lane , late molar teeth are of Megalosaurian type .
The vertebrae are biconcave ^ scapula is concave on its borders , without conspicuous expansion at the free el The pubis and ischium do not manifestly diverge ventrally ; there may be a suja acetabular articulation on the ilium .
I am glad to express my thanks for the way in which my work was facilitatecby the good offices of the Officials of the Foreign Office in London , and of the Official of the British Embassy in St. Petersburg ; to the Governing body of the Institute of Mines of St. Petersburg , to M. F. Schmidt , to Dr. A. Karpinsky , and to Profean Lehusen and Inostranseff for the exceptional facilities afforded me for the stud of these remains ; to Professor Stukenberg of Kazan , and to Professor A. Pavloi of Moscow .
I am indebted to Professors Dames and Kocken for the opportunitof studying specimens in Berlin , and to Dr. Kinkelin for the loan of specimens om the Senckenberg Museum , Frankfort-on-Main , and for casts of von Meyer 's type ; and to the Government Grant Committee of the Boyal Society for assistanein carrying on the investigation .
Description of Plates .
PLATE 60 .
Fig. 1 .
Left side of the skull of Deuterosaurus : parietal foramen ; p. , partai bone ; pt .
, post-frontal ; pr.f .
, pre-frontal ; maxillary ; l. , lachryal ; pm .
, pre-maxillary ; cn .
, canine ; mr .
, molar ; palatine ; quadrite ; sq .
, squamosal ; tv .
, temporal vacuity occupied with matrix ; o. , orb o the eye occupied with matrix in which are shells of Modiolopsis Half natural size .
Fig. 2 .
Fragment of the canine tooth ( cn .
) showing vertically fractured crowV ) and root ( r. ) , natural size , reversed , m. is the molar tooth , natural sis Fig. 3 .
Impression of a portion of the palate of the skull of Deuterosaurus , from beneath , drawn of the natural size . .
, palato-nares ; ptn .
, ^ maxillary ; cn .
, canine tooth ; mx. , maxillary ; pn .
, palatine bone ; tlC ture of portion of palatine bone ; mr .
, malar ; t. , transverse bone , pterygoid ; v. , vomer .
The lateral ridges formed by the palatine11 transverse bones , which converge as they extend behind the palate \lt ; |jp^\#174 ; \#187 ; and classification of the fossil reptilia .
form a depression in the middle of the palate in which the long , narrow uarial vacuities are placed .
PLATE 61 .
Skull of Deuterosaurus seen from above ; one-half natural size , parietal foramen ; p. , parietal bone ; sq .
, squamosal bone ; pt.f .
, post-frontal ; pr.f.y pre-frontal ; f , frontal bone ; mx. , maxillary ; pm .
, pre-maxillary .
Posterior aspect of the skull of Deuterosaurus , from which the cranial bones have been broken away , leaving the impressions , chiefly on the left side .
One-half natural size , pf .
, parietal foramen , with the vertical canal below it which leads into the brain , in front of the foramen magnum ( f.m. ) ; sq .
, squamosal bone ; q. , quadrate bone ; b.sp .
, basi-sphenoid ; pt .
, pterygoid bones ; one half natural size .
to 6 .
Proximal end of left femur of a species of or ; natural size .
Eig .
3 , inferior ; fig* 4 , superior ; fig. external , fig. 6 , proximal ; p. , proximal articular surface ; t. , infeiior trochanter minor prolonged distally in a ridge ; t " .
, external trochanter major , which is not reflected upward .
PLATE 62 .
Sacrum and pelvic bones seen from above , probably Deuterosaurus .
II .
, ilium , s.r. , sacral rib ; n.s. , neural spine ; .
, pre-zygapophysis ; natural size . .
Anterior aspect of the same specimen showing the squamous union between the sacral ribs and the iliac bones . .
Ventral aspect of the sacrum showing the union of centrum and sacral rib . .
Left ilium , a.w. , supra-acetabular wedge ; is .
, ischium .
PLATE 63 . .
Right side of the skull of Rhopalodon ; natural size .
2 .
Right maxillary molar tooth showing serrated margin ; twice natural size .
1 .
The same skull seen from above .
Pf .
, parietal foramen ; p. , parietal , pt.f .
, post-frontal ; pr.f , pre-frontal ; o. , orbit ; mx. , maxillary ; c. , canine ; wit .
, mandible .

