442 Mr. E. R. Blundstone .
Glycogen in the [ June 18 , IX .
" On the Occurrence of Glycogen as a Constituent of the Vesicular Cells of the Connective Tissue of Molluscs .
" By Edwin Richardson Blundstone , Scholar of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 2 , 1885 .
The following results were obtained in connexion with a research " On the Connective Tissue and Vascular System of Mollusca , " on which I acted as assistant to Professor Lankester , according to the terms of a grant from the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society : other results will be published subsequently .
The connective tissues of Molluscs , as presented by Helix , Planorbis , Anodon , Cyclas , and Solen , may be divided into two main groups .
In one of these the constituent cells are little advanced from their original mesoblastic condition ; they have an irregular stellate form , and they are joined together by the tips of their processes .
In the other variety , which will be spoken of as lamellar connective tissue , the cells are more irregular in form and their processes more attenuated , but , by the deposition of an intercellular ectoplasm in certain planes , the cells come to lie in plates or films .
These films form the walls of the sinuses and lacunae ( occasionally vein-like in appearance ) of Molluscs .
All the cells , however , of the lamellar connective tissue do not lie embedded in the films , for some of enormous size project into the blood , being only attached by a small portion of their superficies to the film .
These cells are the " vesicular cells " ( Lankester ) of the lamellar connective tissue : they contain glyco* 1 .
Tissues operated upon* In extracting glycogen from Anodon I have made use of the mantle , thus avoiding all contamination and complications of results on the part of the liver , and , by rejecting the mantle edge , ventral to the pallial muscles , have been able to work upon a region of the simplest composition , for with the exception of a very few muscular fibres which pass from side to side of the mantle , the region operated upon comprises only the two epidermes and the lamellar films with their glycogenous cells .
The blood offers no difficulties , as it readily drains out of the mantle .
2 .
Processes of Extractions , Src* In extraction I have made use of the process and tests detailed for investigating the liver of the rabbit for glycogen in Foster and Langley 's " Elementary Physiology , " and also of those in the admirable essay of Dr. Errera , to which I am much indebted .
Connective Tissue of Molluscs .
1835 .
] To observe most of the following results , however , the more complicated processes alluded to above are not really essential .
I therefore give a simpler process , whose results are sufficiently accurate .
The mantles of twenty Anodons ( previously preserved in strong spirit ) are treated , after removing the adherent spirit with blotting paper , with 3 oz. of boiling distilled water .
While in the water , the mantles are disintegrated as far as possible with a glass rod .
The mixture is freely shaken , and in a few minutes filtered .
The filtrate is rapidly cooled , and then twice its bulk of absolute alcohol is added to it , and allowed to stand .
The precipitate so obtained is taken up , after washing with 90 per cent , spirit , in distilled water , and again precipitated by absolute alcohol as before .
Upon dissolving this precipitate in distilled water a bluish opalescent solution is obtained which\#151 ; 1 .
Gives mahogany colour with iodine solution\#151 ; the colour disappearing upon warming , and reappearing upon cooling .
2 .
Gives no reaction with Fehling 's solution upon warming .
3 .
After digestion with saliva at 30\#151 ; 35 ' for about 10 minutes , the solution gives Fehling 's reaction .
4 .
Is precipitated by 60 per cent , alcohol .
The above is briefly the evidence of the occurrence of glycogen in the mantle of Anodon .
3 .
The Localisation of the Glycogen in certain Cells .
By a little care the mantle may be split in half ( this is performed more easily with a spirit specimen ) .
Placing one of the halves so obtained upon a glass slip , epidermis downwards , and treating the preparation with solution of iodine , a remarkable appearance is observed .
The tissues generally are hardly stained at all , but with the naked eye it is seen that the connective tissue is copiously sprinkled with dark brown dots .
By the microscope these dots are found to be very large vesicular cells , some of whose contents have been deeply stained by the iodine .
4 .
Some Reactions and Particulars of these Glycogenous Vesicles .
For the study of these cells , thick sections of the frozen mantle of Anodon or preparations of the " mesentery " of Helix are best .
The vesicles are then seen to be very large round or oval cells , with very brilliant ( though not doubly refracting ) contents .
By treatment with water , the cells are emptied of contents except the nucleus and the cell protoplasm , which is very small in amount .
By crushing , it is seen that the metaplasm ( " endoplastic 444 Glycogen in the Connective Tissue of Molluscs .
[ June 18 product " Lankester ) is fluid , and dissolves to an opalescent fluid in the surrounding water .
With , strong spirit , the metaplasm undergoes a very remarkable and quite characteristic clotting or pseudo-crystallisation ( also noticed by Errera ) , which takes place equally well either within or ( in crushed specimens ) outside the cell .
Osmic acid yields no reaction .
It is the metaplasm or endoplastic product of the vesicle which is deeply stained by iodine , and also by borax carmine , and not the nucleus and cell protoplasm .
I do not propose here to further describe the glycogenous vesicles , for they are described and figured both fresh and after the action of various reagents , at great length by Professor Lankester and myself in the forthcoming paper to which allusion has before been made , but I will take this opportunity of pointing out\#151 ; 1 .
That these " vesicles " are the same as the " plasma cells " of Brock and others , the " Langer 's bladders " of very many writers , and are .equivalent to many of the " lacunae " of Kollmann , Griesbach , \amp ; c. For many years the existence of these vesicles has been denied and affirmed by two schools of observers ; we shall bring forward indubitable proof in favour of Fleming and his adherents .
2 .
That these cells are trustworthily figured and described by Fleming ( " Archiv fur Mikros .
Anat .
, vol. xiii ) , and may be readily seen in Anodon by the method described above , or in Helix by merely spreading out a portion of the " mesentery " on a glass slip .
5 .
Distribution of the Vesicles .
These vesicles occur in Anodon wherever there is lamellar connective tissue , except in the very muscular tip and edge of the foot , labial palpi and gills , Keber 's organ , organ of Bojanus , mantle edge .
In Helix , they are found especially on the lining of the great lacunar spaces , and on the " mesenteries .
" They are especially associated with the arteries in all Molluscs I have examined .
The brilliant whiteness of the slug 's arterial system is due to their presence in the connective tissue , outside the arteries .
I have reasons for believing that these cells , or slight'modifications of them , are very widely distributed throughout the Invertebrata .
6 .
General Remarks and Conclusion .
Although glycogen has frequently been stated to occur in Invertebrates ( e.g. , by Professor Foster for Ascaris , and by Fredericq for My a ) , yet I believe that hitherto it has never been definitely localised in certain cells , and far from being associated with connective tissue , has been thought to be for the most part a liver product .
I hope to be able to publish further results in the above directions at a future time .
1885 .
] Morphology of Phylloglossum Drummondii .
445 In connexion with the Mollusca certain points seem worthy of special notice .
In the first place , it is held by many comparative anatomists that the | lacunar system of Molluscs has a partly enterocoelous origin , or at least has enterocoelous elements in its nature .
If this be so , it is interesting to note that some cells of the lacunar walls may be glycogenous , for glandular surfaces seem to be specially characteristic of the ectoderm and endoderm .
Moreover , these cells are also to be found on the mesenteries of Holothurians , which are undoubtedly enterocoelous .
In the second place , one of the greatest objections which can be urged against the feasibility of water inception by Molluscs is removed , if ( 1 ) the specific gravity and ( 2 ) the nutritive quality of the blood can be maintained in spite of the process .
It is supposed that this would be accomplished by the discharge of the contents of the glycogenous vesicles .
Finally it is interesting to note , that one of the functions of the vertebrate liver seems in Molluscs with ease to be performed outside its domain , and this , moreover , in animals whose liver is essentially a digestive gland .
In conclusion I have to thank Professor Lankester and Professor Foster , to whom , as also to Mr. Langley , Mr. Lea , and Mr. Gardiner , I am very greatly indebted .
X. " On the Development and Morphology of Drummondii .
Part I. Vegetative Organs .
" By F.O. BOWER , M.A. , F.L.S. , Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , M.A. , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The morphological history of Phylloglossum has up to the present time rested on a very slender basis .
The following brief summary given by Sachs ( " Textbook , " 2nd English Edition , p. 463 ) practically comprises the whole of it:\#151 ; " A small Australian plant , only a few centimetres high .
It consists of a stem arising from a small tuber , and bearing at its lower part a rosette of a few long leaves , and one or more lateral roots ; it is prolonged above this as a thin scape , and terminates in a spike of small leaves bearing the sporangia .
The plant is propagated by means of adventitious shoots , consisting of a tuber with a rudimentary leafless bud ; in this respect it resembles our native Ophrydece .
" The study of so reduced a form of a group , usually so remarkable

