460 Variations of Electromotice Force of Cells .
[ Nov , 27 V. " The Variations of Electromotive Force of Cells consisting of certain Metals , Platinum , and Nitric Acid .
" By G. J. Burch , B.A. , and V. H. Veley , M.A. , the University Museum , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor Odling , F.R.S. Received October 23 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The description of the apparatus , the^ capillary electrometer , and the method of working are given fully in the paper .
The following conclusions are drawn from the results of the experiments:\#151 ; I. When the metals copper , silver , bismuth , and mercury are introduced into purified nitric acid of different degrees of concentration , and a couple made with platinum , the electromotive force of such a cell increases considerably until it reaches a constant and ( in most cases ) a maximum value .
The rise of E.M.F. is attributed to the production of nitrous acid by the decomposition of the nitric acid , and the final value is considered to be due to the former acid only , while the initial value is due for the most part to the latter acid , though it is affected to a remarkable degree by the amount of impurity of nitrous acid , either initially present , or produced by minute and unavoidable uncleanliness of the metallic strip and the containing vessel .
II .
If nitrous acid has been previously added to the nitric acid , then the maximum E.M.F. is reached at once .
III .
If the conditions , namely , increase of temperature , of impurity , and of concentration of acid , are such as would favour a more rapid solution of the metal , and consequently a more rapid production of nitrous acid , then the rise of E.M.F. is concomitantly more rapid .
IV .
Conversely , if the conditions are unfavourable to the production of nitrous acid , the rise of E.M.F. is less rapid .
V. If any substance , such as urea , be added which would tend to destroy the nitrous acid as fast as it may be formed , then the rise of E M.F. is extremely slow , being dependent upon the number of molecular impac s of the nitrous acid upon the surface of the metal .
Thus the results obtained by the electrometer and by the chemical balance are in every way confirmatory the one of the other .
The authors propose to conduct further investigations on cells containing other acids , to determine whether the action of them upon metals is conditioned by the presence of their products of electrolysis-

