4 ~ Fig 5~A S3~~F~ TB LK WD PM BIGEA N H V~ ~ I6~E Y~ RKHFD ZXGC O 8 9~T 10 ~ YXP N V ZWSR Philos : Transact : ~ 22 21 15 C M 16 G ED DB H F F NB 17 E A C OL B~A 19 ~ 18 GP AG BBM L KS FE TR D NK H 20 ML C IOI II .
A Letter from Mr Anthony van Leuwenhoek , concerning the Seeds of Oranges , &amp;c. Delft in Holland , the 6th of Feb. 1703 .
I Have formerly , according to my small capacity , abundantly demonstrated , that almost all Seeds are only made for the nourishment of the young Plant within them ( which is a small Particle of the Seed , as little as it appears to our Eyes ) till it be able to spring forth from the Earth ; but forasmuch as I lately met with the Seed or Kernel of an Orange , in the middle of which , to my great surprise , I found another complete Seed ; I have taken the liberty to send to you my Observations about the said Kernel , and the growth of it .
I have several times opened the Kernels of Oranges and Limons , and often found that what we call a Stone , Kernel or Seed , is improperly so called , and that when we have stripped it of Skin or Membrane , we shall frequently find that two Seeds are enclosed in that Membrane , to wit , under the Skin , and without side of the Kernel there , is a small Seed~ the like of which has not occurred to me in other forts of Seeds .
Tis true , you shall often find in Hazel-nuts , Almonds , Peach and Apircock Kernels , a double Seed or Kernel , but then each of them is enclosed in a double Membrane , that have no communication with one another but in a bare simple contact~ but have each of them a distinct Stalk or String , by which consequently they receive their proper nourishment .
In the Month of November last , two Gentlemen made me a Present of Surinam Oranges , and in the first I opened I found eight and thirty complete Kernels , but in neither of two others could I meet with four good Seeds ; I opened several Kernels of the first Orange , one of which , surrounded with its Membrane , I caus 'd to be drawn , as you will see in Fig. 1 .
ABC D. When I had stripped one of these Kernels of the outmost Membrane , I discovered that there lay a String under it , that caus 'd a little protuberance in the first Skin , represented in the said Figure by AB C , from which String , not only the Seed , but the Plant within it receives its increase and nourishment .
Fig.2.E F shows you the same Seed separated from its first and hard Skin , which is only given to it , as I conceive for the defence of the inward parts ; whereas Nuts , Almonds , Peach stones , &amp;c. are armed with strong and thick Shells , F G represents the aforesaid String , which I parted a little from the Seed itself , that I might render it the more visible , and which String is not only joined to the Seed at F , but extends its small Vessels also thro the second Membrane from F towards E , the seat of the Plant , and in order to its nourishment , but those Vessels are so exceeding fine and small , that they escape the sight before you trace them to their journeys end .
Now we may certainly conclude that the said String does actually comprehend in its self as many distinct Vessels , as are to be found in the Orange-Tree when it is arrived to full maturity ; for if all these Vessels were not in the young Plant whilst it lies involved in its Mother , the Kernels Womb , whence can they proceed afterwards ?
but this is so self-evident , and will be so easily granted me , that I need not say more on that topic .
Tho the said String was very small , yet I was resolved to try if I could give you a sight of the Vessels within it , and I succeeded several times , but not without a great deal o trouble to me before I could place it in such a position , as my Limner might be able to draw it exactly .
Fig. 3 .
HIKLMN represents a part of the same String cut across , which Fig. 2 .
FG gives you entire , and in its whole length .
The said Particle of the String at HIMN has abundance of exceeding small Vessels , but very hard to be seen , about IKLM they grow larger , and consequently more visible ; and thus you may see a great many , tho not all of the Vessels .
After I had made this observation , I was thinking whether these great Vessels were not the origin or source of the contexture of that Membrane which covers the Seed ; and on the other side , whether the former described by HIMN were not the feeders of the Seed and Plant .
I had also placed a piece of another string of the Kernel of an Orange before another Microscope , of which I have given you a rough draught , only to show how the utmost Membrane incompasses the String in order , as I suppose , for its strength and defence .
Fig. 4 .
OPQ represents the said String cut across , RS TV that part of the hard Membrane that surrounds it , TVQ Ware faintly shown that infinite number of Fibres , particularly at Q W , that Nature uses in the contexture of such a small String .
The last Phenomenon suggested to my thughts , that those long Fibres represented by QW were designed to add a stiffness and solidity to the outward Membrane , for the better defence of the internal Vessels .
I have often observed that the outmost Membrane RSTV did compress the String so closely , that there remained little space between them .
In the said Fig. 4 .
XYZ is represented that Membrane , which surrounds the Kernel or Seed and the Plant ; the said Membranes are very thin , and particularly the inmost of them .
Rrrrrrrr2 Such Such a Seed or Kernel being cut across , you would think the Particles of which it is composed , to be nothing but irregular Globules squeezed or compressed close together .
Fig. 5 .
AB represents such a Seed divested of its Membranes , and which seemed to have but one Plant within it , whereas I have often seen under the Membranes another small Plant , which lay as if it were squeezed into the substance of the Seed , and so is not to be seen till the Seed , be stripped of its Membranes , contrary to those of Nuts , Peaches , Almonds , &amp;c. which where there is two of them , lye entire and distinct in their proper Membranes , as I have hinted to you before .
I have likewise observed under the Membrane or Skin of an Orange-kernel three distinct Seeds with their Plants , but some of them indeed much bigger than the others .
These Seeds with their enclosed Plants are easily divided into two Lobes or distinct parts , insomuch that they do not seem to have been united but only where the small Plant lies ; so that the whole Kernel , Fig 5 .
A B , was framed by Nature for no other use , in my opinion , but to foster and nourish the tender Plant within , till it be able to stand alone , and draw its subsistence from the Earth about it .
Having split the Seed , Fig. 5 .
A B , into two parts , one half of which is represented by Fig. 6 .
CDE F , together with part of the Plant , that would have been a Tree sticking close to it , you may see the Plant it self at C , no bigger than a grain of Sand to the naked Eye .
That which induced me to give you so exact an account of the Anatomy of an Orange kernel , was , because I discovered ( to my great wonder ) another Seed or Kernel , together with its Plant , in the heart of the former .
The counterpart of the aforesaid Kernel is designed by Fig. 7 .
GHI K , and G the little pit or bed of the Plant , and in the said Figure between H and K , the concavity wherein the second Seed also lay , vid .
DF in Fig. 6 .
This Phenomenon was wholly new to me , tho I had dissected many sorts of Seeds before , viz. to see in the middle of one Seed or Kernel another complete and perfect Seed ; especially when I considered that from the Vessels arising out of the String , and dispersing themselves through the Membranes , both the Kernel and Plant are produced ; and yet these same Vessels must insinuate themselves into the very heart of the first Seed before they can produce a second Seed and Plant within it ; when I considered all this , I say I was struck with admiration , and could not forbear crying out , Oh the inscrutable Wisdom of God , &amp;c. I thought it would not be amiss to place such a small Plant as is represented by C in Fig. 6 .
before a Microscope , and cause it to be delineated , as you may see in Fig. 8 .
LM NOP Q , whereof QLM is partly that which Nature intends for the body and root of the Tree , NOP the Leaves wherewith the young Plant is already provided , and OP represents that part of the Leaf which is next the sight , and something protuberant , by reason of the enclosed smaller Leaves .
In the said Fig. 8 .
by MN and PQ are shown the two sides of the Plant torn off from the Kernel , to which it was united , and from which it did receive its nourishment Moreover , I took the said young Plant as it stood before the Microscope , and turned it a little about , in order to show the two largest Leaves , whereas in the former position I could see but one of them .
Fig. 9 .
STV represents the two great Leaves in this posture , between those said Leaves , according to all appearance , are shut up a great many small ones , but because I could not unravel them so as to give the Limner a full view of them , I would not suffer him to take any notice of them , yet when I came to cut the Leaves across as they lay involved in the bed of the Plant , I imagine d that I saw the small Leaves abovementioned ; and when I cut after the same manner that part of the Plant which is to be the body and root of the Tree , I discovered within the small Particle that which was design d for the Pith , and even the Wood itself , and all that as plainly as if I had been observing with my naked Eye a young Plant of an inch thick .
I endeavoured as far as I was able , to describe the contexture of the Pith , as it appeared to me in Fig. 10 .
WX Y Z , in the said Figure you may observe a great many small Particles , which at first sight one would be apt to take for irregular Globules , but placed in a right line , and all of them of greater length than breadth , but I look upon them to be nothing else but small Pipes or Vessels , whereby the Plant receives its nourishment , and who can tell but every one of them is covered with a distinct Membrane .
These said parts , which compose the Pith of the Plant are not to be discovered , unless with a sharp Knife you cut off a piece from the Seed after it is stripped of the Seed , and place it immediately before the Microscope ; for all the moisture is so soon exhaled after it is cut , that one shall not be able to make any observation .
Moreover , for my own and others satisfaction , I took a little Copper-box , and put into it some Sand , which for its whiteness , and because it is used to scour Tin , we call scouring Sand ; this Sand was very dry , but was something moistn 'd by the Seeds which I mingled with it , having newly taken them out of an Orange .
This was done on the 19th of November in the Evening about 7 of the Clock , after which I carried the same Box adays in the Wastband of my Breeches , where I used to put my Watch , and a nights I placed it within a large Tin Bottle filled with hot Water , which my people put into my Bed to warm it , by which means the little Box was also kept warm till the morning ; and after I had repeated this practice three days following , I opened the Box , and took out one of the Seeds , but could not discover any change in it .
On the 25th of November about 6a Clock in the Evening , after that the Sand and the Seeds had been six days in a continual warmth , I opened my Box again , and observed that the Root was pusnt forth a small matter out of the Membranes of the Seed , as you may see in Fig 11 .
AB C , AB being that part of the Plant which was to become the Root , and BCD the rest of the Seed involved in its Membranes .
Moreover , I took another Seed out of the said Box , which having cleansed from the Sand , and separated from its Membranes , I took the two Lobes of the Kernel that enclose the Plant , as you may see in Fig. 6 and 7 , and with fine Pins parted them a little asunder , that I might show the top of the Plant described in Fig. 8 .
by OP Q. Fig. 12 .
EFGHI represents the Seed , which , as I said before , had lain six days in the Sand , and was divested of its Membranes .
OF shows that part which is destined for the Root , FG and IF are those parts , from whence the young Plant receives its nourishment , and which by two Pins K and L are divided from each other , in order to discover that part of the enclosed Plant , which will be the body of the Tree , which is represented by H , and may be seen with the naked Eye .
Fig. 13 .
NOPQR shows how far the Seed can shoot out its Root in 12 days , which is also divested of its Membranes , and placed sideways before the Glass , that the Strings , whereby the two parts of the Seed are united to the Plant , may be the more easily discovered .
NOR shows the Root , OP and QR the Seed or Kernel divided into two equal parts , OR the strings united to the Plant , and from which it draws its first nourishment .
When I cut those Strings across and close to the Plant , I found in each String three Vessels , thro which I concluded that most of the Nourishment was derived from the Seed to the Plant .
I separated the two parts of the Seed with two Pins from each other , that they might be the better viewed by the naked Eye , as you may see here in Fig. 14 .
STX shows you the Root , TV and WX the two halves of the Kernel , and Y that part which is to ~ the body of the Tree , much larger than H in Fig. 12 .
After I had proceeded with my Copper-box about 18 days after the manner above mentioned , I opened the same , and caus 'd the Limner to draw the Plants ~ far as he could see them spring out above the surface of the Sand .
Fig. 15 .
ABCDE represents the Copper-box , C the Seeds as they with their Plants and Roots were risen above the Sand .
Fig. 16 .
FGH shows you the cover of the said Box .
Having caus 'd this Box be thus delineated , I poured out all the Sand from it , and then observed with great wonder , that all the moisture was gone from the Sand , without doubt drawn away by the Seeds , of which I had put sixteen into the said Box , all which had shot out their Roots and produced Plants , some of which were indeed much bigger than the rest ; and two or three of the Seeds had brought forth double Plants , amongst them there was one that yielded three Plants , which I have also caus 'd to be drawn , tho the Roots and Plants were ~d and jumbled together , which I attribute to the pressure , and too great nearness of the other Seeds about it .
Fig. 17 .
AAA represents the said three Plants , and BBB the three Roots .
When I observed how dry the Sand was which I had poured out of the Box , I fancied with my self , that if I had put a little more Water into the Sand , or fewer Seeds , there would have been a greater increase both of the Plants and Roots .
Then I took a Glass Tube , that was large enough to hold the Sand conveniently , and ~ sealed at one end , and about twice as long as is here represented in Fig. 18 .
IKLMN O ; in this Tube I put 5 or 6 Seeds , and laid between each of them a little wet Sand .
This Sand was very fine and white , and of that sort which is used for the making of Glass ; I had taken it above 12 years ago out of a Glass-house , and had kept it always dry in my Closet in a Money-bag ; it was dug , as I am told , in the Bishopric of Liege .
I proceeded with this Tube as I had done before with my Copper box , having stopped it with a piece of Cork , vid .
Fig. 18 .
LPQ M. On the tenth day I observed that the Seed was come to that maturity , that the part which Nature intends for the body of the Tree , was grown up ~ high as the Cork ; i poured a little Sand out of the Tube , that the Limner might more easily perceive the Germination of the Plant , and cut off part of the Cork , and upon the twelfth day it appeared as in the said Fig. 18 .
RS T. Having done this , I took the Plant out of the GlassTube , and caus 'd the Limner to draw it , as you may see in Fig. 19 .
ABCDEFG H , only you must observe that this Plant had but one Root ACD H , but because others have more , I caused him to describe them together , as you will see in B C. In this last figure FG represents that part which is to be the Tree , DE the Seed or Kernel , which being surrounded with its Membrane , I took them off , that I might the better expose to your sight those parts thereof that serve for the ~ not only of the Root , but of the upper parts of the Plant likewise , as also the short string D. Now ~ as I have observed in the ~ of several other Germinating Plants , that a great many small Roots of unspeakable fineness sprung from them , I placed the same Plant , fig. 19 .
with that part of the Root which is described by C , before a common Microscope , and then showed the Limner the infinite number of short small Roots Ssssssss spring .
~ out of the great one , and ~ him to draw it .
Fig. 20 .
KL M~ N shows a small-part of the great Root , which appeared to the Limner as thick and as large as the space between K and N , and the small Roots appear d , growing out of the sides of the great Root , as is represent~ between M and N. Now if we conclude ( as it is but reasonable ) that even the smallest Roots are surrounded with such other rows of~ exceeding small Roots , how ought we to be surprised at the wonderful workmanship of God , and especially when we proceed to the Dissection and Anatomy of the Roots , ( and the Body , and of all those strings which serve to convey its nourishment to the Plant ) and to the observation of their Texture thro our Glasses .
Thus we may see with our naked Eye , how a small Particle no bigger than a course Sand ( as the Plant is represented in Fig. 6 .
by C ) is increased in bulk , within the space of eleven days , as I have shown already in Fig. 19 .
AHG F ; and all this is brought to pass by ~ and Moisture in a closed Vessel ; a plain demonstration that the Plant , and all that belonged to it , was actually in the Seed , that is to say , notonly the young Plant , its Body , Root and Fruit , but even the Seeds thereof also , in order to perpetuate the species , so long as the Earth shall have a being , and so long as the Sun shall shine upon it .
In the month of December last , I took another Glass Tube longer and larger than the first , as you may see Fig. 21 .
A BCDEFG H , and stopped both ends with a piece of Cork , boring a small hole in the upper Cork , and filling the Tube a little higher than BG with dry scouring Sand , which I first moistn 'd with a little Rain water ; but one must take care of making the Sand too wet , for that will rot the Seeds , neither must it be too closely comprest , lest it should hinder the young Plant from pushing forth its Root or Branches .
In the upper part of this Sand thus disposed , I set two Kernels of an Orange that was brought from Curac~o ; but whereas I put the other Seeds into the ~ immediately as soon as I took them out of the Orange , I did not set these last till some days after they had been out of thesaid Orange , for which reason they were dryer than the others~ and consequently demanded a longer time before they cou 'd sprout out , but in the space of three weeks , by the warmth of my body only , they had Germinated , as is shown in the said Fig. BCF G. Now , that the Limner might have a better view of the Seeds which were covered with Sand , I poured out some of it , and then they appeared as BC G. Between ABGH are represented the long Roots with their small twigs and branches against the sides of the Tube .
Since the above-mention 'd time , I observed but very little change in the Plant in some days , the reason of which I suppose to be that all the moisture was exhausted by the Plant , wherefore I poured a little more Rain water into the top of the Sand , and then the Plant grew bigger , insomuch that in five weeks time it was got almost to the uppermost Cork D E , and the Roots also were spread into more Branches , and had not only extended themselves to the lower Cork , but one little Root had insinuated itself between the Cork and the Glass , and had there shot forth another Branch .
Whereas the external Membrane of these Seeds are very thick and hard , and that part of the tender Plant which Nature has designed for a Tree is not able to bore thro it , or burst .
it asunder , as happens in the Plants of Nuts , Almonds , Peaches , &amp;c. The wise Creator of all things has found out an expedient for this also , to wit , that this Plant shall ~ spring up in a right line thro the Seed or Kernel , but out of the sides thereof , as you may observe in Fig. 19 .
between D and F , and Fig. 21 .
between N and O. Ssssssss2 After After that one of these Seeds had lain near six weeks shut up in the Glass-Tube , and had grown in proportion to that time , I observed that one of its Leaves was withered or corrupted ; whereupon I opened both the Corks , and poured out the Sand , which being very dry came away easily , but a small branch of the Root had so insinuated itself into the Cork , that I could not separate them without violence .
For your better satisfaction , I caus 'd that Plant , with the Cork , as it was hanging to it , to be described by my Limner .
Fig. 22 .
IKLMN represents the said whole Plant , whereof LMN shows the body , and forasmuch as it had put forth 3 leaves at the top , M points out to you the said Leaves .
IKL is the Root with its twigs and branches ; LNO the Seed or Kernel still surrounded with its Membranes ; and lastly , IP shows the Cork that stopped the bottom of the Tube , together with the Root sticking to it .
Now if we renew the comparison ( which I have formerly made ) between the Animalcula in Semine Masculino , and these Plants ; tho those Animalcula are a thousand thousand times smaller than a Plant in an Orange-kernel ; and tho we ca n't make our observations of the growth and increase from time to time of the said Animalcula in their Mothers Womb ; yet we may firmly conclude that the Laws and Orders which the Great and Wise Creator of all things has prescribed to himself in the production of his Creatures , both Animate and Inanimate , are homogenious and univocal , and that as the Earth is the common Womb of Plants , so is the Tuba Fallopiana in Animals of most of all those Creatures that are form d ex Semine Maseulino ; for as the Animals in the Womb receive their Nourishment and Increase ( as I have often said ) by a string , till they come into the Air and World , so are all Seeds ( at least as far as we know ) supported and fed by a little string , and the Seeds that are cast into the Earth do again convey by the same string , whereby they received their Increase , Nourishment to the Seed or Kernel .
We have discovered that there are some Animalcula which have no Males among them , and the same is observable among a few species of Fishes also .
These Animalcula and these Fishes may be compared to some Seeds , that have no other substance in them besides the Plant itself and the Membranes that invelope it ; such are the Seed of the Beach tree , and , if I mistake not , the Seed of Crosses likewise .
Amongst the Seeds , whose Strings ( whereby their Nourishment , &amp;c. is derived to them ) I have not formerly discovered , there are the Wall-nut and the Ches-nut , but within a few days I have also found out their strings .
A little while before the last Sickness and Death of the famous Christian Hugens , Lord of Zuilichem , being together in his Study , he told me , that we were arrived to the utmost degree of knowledge in our observations of Heavenly Bodies , and consequently that there remained nothing more to be seen or said concerning them : I might likewise say , that we have penetrated so deeply into the great secrets of the Seeds both of Animals and Plants , that we seem to be at the end of our Discoveries ; but however I may be mistaken in those Sentiments .
Now since I have been able , with a little Sand and Water , shut up in a Copper-box or Glass-Tube , and a moderate heat , to bring certain Seeds to maturity , which in our Climate are of a long and tedious growth , whatcan those men say for themselves that talk so much of the influx of Celestial Bodies , viz. the Sun , Moon and Stars , and that will not allow us to Plant and Sow our Seeds , but at such an age of the Sun and Moon , and under such a Sign and Constellation .
For my part , I know no other secret in Vegetation , but a complete heat of the Sun , and a just quantity of Water nay , I shall not stick to say that the Increase and Nourishment of all Plants is included in Water ; for let our barren and unfruitful Downs , that consist of a very fine Sand , be brought to such a Level that they lie but a foot higher than the Moats and Ditches round about them , so that the Rain water be not drained away as it falls , such Land shall not only produce good Grass , but even Rye , Barley , and several other Fruits .

