392 The Possible Ancestors of the Horses living under Domestication .
By J. C. Ewart , M.D. , F.R.S. , University of Edinburgh .
( Received May 15 , \#151 ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) ( Abstract .
) During the later part of the Nineteenth Century it was generally taken for granted\#151 ; ( 1 ) that " the seven or eight species of Equidse now existing are all descended from an ancestor of a dun colour more or less striped ( 2 ) that the common ancestor of the living horses , asses , and zebras was connected by a single line of descent with the four-toed " fossil " horses of the Eocene period ; ( 3 ) that the domestic horses are descended from a Pleistocene species characterised by large molars with a long anterior internal pillar , a large , heavy head , and coarse limbs ; ( 4 ) that in various parts of Europe and Asia domestic races increased in size and were improved in make , speed , and disposition as a result of artificial selection and favourable surroundings .
On the Continent it seems to be still generally assumed that the domestic breeds have descended from a single species , f but in England and America many naturalists now believe\#151 ; ( 1 ) that domestic horses have sprung from several wild species , connected by several lines of descent with three-hoofed species of the Miocene period ; and ( 2 ) that while some of the wild ancestors were adapted for living in the vicinity of forests and upland valleys , others were adapted for a steppe , plateau , or desert life .
Of possible ancestors of the domestic breeds , the following may be mentioned :\#151 ; Equus sivalensis , E. stenonis , E. gracilis ( Owen 's Asinus fossilis ) , E. namadicus , E. fossilis , and E. robustus .
These species mainly differ in the teeth , size and deflection of the face , and in the bones of the limbs .
In the first three species , the grinding surface of the anterior internal pillar ( a fold of enamel on the inner surface of the cheek teeth ) of the premolars and first molar is short , in the last premolar , pm .
4 , it may only be one-third the length of the crown ; in the second three species , the anterior internal pillar is long\#151 ; at least half the antero-posterior length of the crown .
One of the ancestral types ( E. robustus ) was broad browed and had a short face , almost in a line with the cranium ; another ( .
) , also broad * Darwin , 'Animals and Plants , ' vol. 2 , p. 17 .
t The latest suggestion is that domestic horses are the descendants of Equus , Riitimeyer , a Pleistocene species closely allied to the wild horse of Mongolia E. przewalskii .
Possible Ancestors of the Horses living under Domestication .
393 browed , had a long , tapering , strongly deflected face ; a third ( E. fossilis ) had a long , narrow face , not so strongly bent downwards as in E. ; and a fourth ( E. gracilis ) had a fine , narrow , but only slightly deflected , face .
In E. gracilis the middle metacarpal ( cannon bone ) was so slender that the length was seven and a-half times the width , while in E. the length of the metacarpal was sometimes only five and a-half times the width .
Of these possible ancestors , the first three occur in Pliocene deposits , the second three have only hitherto been found in Pleistocene deposits .
Equussivalensis , of the Siwalik deposits of Northern India , is the oldest true horse known to science ( i.e.the oldest one-hoofed horse with long ^hypsodont ) molars ) , and , as it measured about 15 hands , it is the largest of the Old World " fossil " horses .
This ancient Siwalik horse was characterised by long , fairly slender limbs , and a long , tapering face , deflected to form an angle of nearly 20 ' with the base of the cranium .
In addition to having a large head , a convex profile , and long limbs , E. sivalensis seems to have been characterised by a long neck , high withers , and a tail set on so high that the root was well in front of the point of the buttock .
Nothing is known of the ancestors of the horse which suddenly made its appearance in Pliocene times amongst the foot hills of the Himalayas , but it may be safely assumed that E. sivalensis very decidedly differed from the small " fossil " horse of the late Miocene and the early Pliocene deposits of America , from which some believe all the recent Equidrn are descended .
It used to be said that E. sivalensis could not be regarded as an ancestor of domestic horses because of the shortness of the anterior pillar of the cheek teeth .
I find , however , that in some modern horses the anterior pillars are decidedly shorter than in E. sivalensis , and that in some of the short-pillared domestic horses the face is nearly as strongly deflected on the cranium as in E. sivalensis .
There is hence no longer any reason for assuming that this ancient Indian species had no share in the making of domestic breeds .
But in the absence of a large and representative collection of skulls of domestic horses it is impossible to say which modern breeds are indebted to the largeheaded , long-limbed race which in Pliocene times frequented the area to the east of the Jhelum River , now occupied by the Siwalik Hills .
Mr. Lydekker thinks E. sivalensis , or some closely allied race , " may have been the ancestral stock from which Barbs , Arabs , and Thoroughbreds are derived .
" When more skulls are available for study and when the phases through which equine skulls pass during development and growth have been worked out , it will probably be ascertained that broad-browed horses with a prominent interorbital region\#151 ; a forehead convex from side to side as well as from above downwards\#151 ; and a long , tapering , strongly deflected face have Dr. J. C. Ewart .
Possible Ancestors of the [ May 15 , in great part descended from a species closely allied to sivalensis , but that horses with a broad flat forehead , and the face short and nearly in a line with the cranium , are at the most only remotely related to E. sivalensis .
Further inquiries will probably also show that some Indian breeds as well as some of the unimproved races of Central Asia certain long-faced Kirghiz horses with a sloping forehead and long ears ) in many of their points agree with E. sivalensis of the Pliocene deposits of Northern India .
The second possible ancestor mentioned is Equus of the Pliocene deposits of Europe and North Africa .
In a typical specimen of this species , with the teeth in an intermediate state of wear , all the anterior pillars of the premolars and molars are shorter than in E. sivalensis , while in a specimen with the teeth well worn the longest pillar may be only one-third the length of the grinding surface of the crown .
At no age are the pillars of the molars more than half the length of the crown .
Whether the face was long and tapering and strongly deflected in E. stenonis has .
not yet been determined , but from the limb bones collected it is evident that the horse with short-pillared molars , which in Pliocene times frequented the valley of the Arno , sometimes reached a height of nearly 15 hands .
It is generally supposed E. stenonis either became extinct towards the close of the Pliocene age or was modified to form varieties with long-pillared molars .
It is conceivable that some of the descendants of E. stenonis acquired long-pillared molars , but it by no means follows that all the Pleistocene horses of Europe with the anterior pillars more than half the length of the crown are related to or derived from E. stenonis\#151 ; some of them may have been the descendants of E. namadicus .
Be this as it may , horses with teeth of the E. stenonis type existed in the south of Scotland during the first and second centuries , and horses with short-pillared cheek teeth are still in existence .
In some of the skulls from the Koman fort at Newstead the anterior pillar of the third and fourth premolars only measures 9 mm. , which is only about half the length of the pillar in E. and other " fossil " Pleiostocene species .
Further , in one of the first century Newstead skulls the first premolar is as large as in E. stenonis , and the face ( as broad and long as in E. sivalensis ) forms an angle of 18 ' 67 with the cranium .
In all probability further inquiries will show that the short-pillared species ( with metacarpals as long but somewhat thicker than in E. sivalensis ) widely distributed over Europe and North Africa in Pliocene times played an important part in the making of Shires and other heavy modern breeds .
The only other possible ancestor dealt with in this contribution is the one to which I have given the name Equus gracilis .
Owen arrived at the conclusion that Pleistocene horses " had a larger head than the domesticated races , and 1909 .
] Horses living under Domestication .
395 that even in small varieties the teeth were nearly as large as in a modern eart horse .
Having come to these conclusions , it is not surprising that when it fell to his lot to describe small equine molars from the drift overlying the London clay and from a cavernous fissure at Oreston , near Plymouth , he decided that they could not belong to a true horse and ( on the assumption that they belonged to an extinct ass or zebra ) formed for them the species Asinus fossilis .
In addition to the small second and third molars described and figured by Owen , there is in the British Museum a small first molar from Oreston .
The anterior pillars of the second and third Oreston molars are more than half the length of the crown , as in horses of the " forest " type , but the pillar of the first molar , m. 1 , from Oreston is only about one-third the length of the crown as in Pliohippus and E. stenonis .
Except in size , the small teeth from Oreston and other Pleistocene deposits bear little resemblance to the molars of asses or zebras , but they are practically identical in enamel foldings as well as in size with the molars of a small ( 12*2 hands ) slender-limbed horse in the possession of the Auxiliaries who garrisoned the Roman fort at Newstead in the south of Scotland about the end of the first century .
In addition to small equine teeth , the Devonshire Pleistocene deposits have yielded a small slender metacarpal .
This metacarpal ( from Kent 's Cave , near Torquay ) , is 220 mm. long and 3025 mm. wide\#151 ; the length is hence 7*27 times the width , as in fine-boned Arabs .
As might have been anticipated from a study of the teeth , the Kent 's Cave metacarpal belongs to a very much finer-limbed race than the small horse of the " elephant " bed at Brighton .
On the other hand , the Kent 's Cave metacarpal very closely agrees with the metacarpals of the small Newstead horse .
This small first-century horse in teeth and limbs agrees with Exmoor , Hebridean and other ponies of the Celtic type , i.e. with ponies characterised by a small fine head , large eyes , slender limbs , five lumbar vertebrae , and by the absence of the hind chestnuts and all four ergots .
It hence follows that the small equine of the English Pleistocene ( Owen 's Asinus fossilis ) , instead of being an ass or a zebra , is a true horse , which in the metacarpals , as in the " pillars " of the premolars and first molar , differs but little from Pliohippus of the late Miocene and early Pliocene American deposits .
Remains of a small horse with teeth and limbs like Equus gracilis { Asinus fossilis , Owen ) have been found in the Pliocene deposits of Italy and France 396 Dr. J. C. Ewart .
Possible Ancestors of the [ May 15 , and in the Pleistocene deposits of France and North Africa .
The Italian and Auvergne slender-limbed horse has generally been regarded as a small variety of E. stenonis .
By Pomel and other palaeontologists the French variety was known as E. ligeris , while the North African variety , named Equus asinus atlanticus by Thomas , was regarded by M. Boule as closely allied to , if not the ancestor of , zebras of the Burchell type .
The slender metacarpals from the valley of the Arno and Auvergne so closely resemble the Kent 's Cave metacarpal , and the teeth from Perrier and Pay de Dome in France and Lake Karar in Algiers so closely resemble the small teeth from Oreston , that E. ligeris and E. asinus atlanticus may be regarded as varieties or races of E. gracilis .
There are good reasons for believing that E. gracilis varied to form a northern and a southern variety .
Bemains of a slender-limbed northern race have been found in deposits belonging to the Neolithic , Bronze , and still later ages in Britain and on the Continent .
At the present day the purest representative of this northern variety is the Celtic pony .
Hence this northern variety may be known as Equus gracilis celticus .
Remains of a slender-limbed southern variety have not yet been found in recent deposits in North Africa , but fine-limbed ponies without ergots and hind chestnuts are sometimes met with in the south of France , and slender-limbed horses without hind chestnuts\#151 ; horses almost certainly of North African descent\#151 ; are occasionally met with in the West Indies and Mexico .
In the French , and still more in the wartless ponies of Mexico , the limbs are longer than in the Celtic ponies , the coat is finer , the mane less full , and the " taillock , " so well developed in the northern variety , is very small .
As the southern variety in all essential points agrees with Prof. Ridgeway 's fine bay horse of North Africa ( E. caballus it may be known as E. gracilis libycus .
Slender limbs and the absence of ergots and hind chestnuts are apparently as distinctive of members of E. gracilis as an upright mane and the absence of hind chestnuts are distinctive of asses and zebras .
Hence , when , as a result of crossing varieties possessing four ergots and four chestnuts , slender-limbed individuals without ergots and hind chestnuts appear in any area , it may be assumed that the horses of that area include E. gracilis amongst their ancestors .
From inquiries made and from crossing experiments it has been ascertained that ponies of the Celtic type occur in the Faroe Islands and Iceland , in the Western Islands and Highlands of Scotland , in the west of Ireland , in Wales , Exmoor , and the New Forest , and in Norway and Finland .
Further crossing experiments have made it evident that the yellow-dun 1909 .
] Horses living under Domestication .
fjord horses of Norway are mainly a blend of the Celtic and " forest " types , that the Shetland ponies , though usually having the conformation of the " forest " or E. robustustype , are in part of Celtic origin , and that some of the mouse-dun Tarpans of the Russian steppes are a nearly equal blend of the Celtic and E. przcwalskii types .
Prof. Ridgeway arrived at the conclusion that in the fine bay horse of North Africa there is a frequent tendency to stripes on the back , legs , shoulders , and face , to a blaze on the forehead and to white " bracelets , " Experiments made with four types of Arabs and with Russian , Mongolian , Indian , and Borneo ponies , English , Irish , Iceland , and Norse ponies support the view that the Pleistocene ancestor of the modern slender-limbed ponies with short-pillared molars was of a yellow or bay-dun colour with a narrow dorsal band and bars on the legs , but had neither " bracelets " nor a blaze .
As stripes are most numerous on broad-browed horses , they have probably in most cases been inherited from ancestors of the E. robustus or E. types .
As to the part played by E. gracilis libycus in forming domestic breeds , nothing very definite has been made out : Prof. Ridgeway says all the improved breeds of the world are a blend in varying degrees of the bay horse of North Africa with thick-set , slow , dun and white horses of Europe and Asia allied to E. przcwalskii .
A number of hybrids bred at Woburn by the Duke of Bedford afford little , if any , evidence in support of the view that Barbs , Arabs , or Thoroughbreds include amongst their ancestors horses of the Prejvalsky or " steppe " type .
Slender-limbed horses with a wide flat forehead and a nearly straight profile appear to be a blend of E.gracilis libycus ( Ridgeway 's E. libycus ) and horses of the E. robustus ( " forest " ) type , while slender-limbed strains with a fine narrow face , a well set-on tail , and a mane that clings to the neck , probably most accurately reproduce the variety of E. gracilis which in prehistoric times inhabited North Africa .

