1875 .
] On Electrolytic Conduction in Solids .
V. " Electrolytic Conduction in Solids.\#151 ; Eirst Example .
Hot Glass .
" By Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.R.S , Received June 10 , 1875 .
Many years ago I projected an experiment to test the voltaic relations between different metals with glass substituted for the electrolytic liquid of an ordinary simple voltaic cell , and with so high a temperature that the glass would have conducting-power sufficient to allow induction through it to rule the difference of potentials between the two metals .
Imperfect instrumental arrangements , and want of knowledge of the temperature at which glass would have sufficient conductivity to give satisfactory results , have hitherto prevented me from carrying out the proposed investigation .
The quadrant electrometer has supplied the first of these deficiencies , and Mr. Perry 's recent experiments* on the conductivity of glass at different temperatures the second .
The investigation has now been resumed ; and in a preliminary experiment I have already obtained a very decided result .
The drawing shows the arrangement adopted .
MN is a brass case immersed in an oil-bath .
A copper plate , C , of 5 centims. diameter , lies in the case on a block of wood ; it is kept metallically connected with the outside case , E , of the electrometer .
A flint-glass plate , G , which is found to insulate very well at ordinary temperatures , is laid upon C. A zinc plate , Z , lies on the glass , and is connected with the insulated electrode , I , of the electrometer , by means of a wire attached to the end of a stout metallic stem , A Z , passing through the centre of an open vertical tube reaching above the level of the oil .
The glass was heated gradually , and was usually kept between 100 ' and 120 ' 0 .
, the temperature being measured by a thermometer , B. Even below 50 ' 0 .
there is a decided result , but shown less rapid y * See infra , p. 468 .
2 o VOL. XXIII .
464 Qn Electrolytic Conduction in Solids .
[ June 10 , than at higher temperatures .
If the glass is kept at 50 ' C. for some time , and I , after having been metallically connected with P , is left insulated , it soon becomes sensibly charged ; and the charge increases till it is approximately equal to that acquired when zinc and copper plates in a liquid electrolyte are metallically connected with I and E respectively .
With the hot glass , as with the liquid electrolyte , the charge given by the zinc to the insulated electrode of the electrometer is negative .
The charge ultimately reached when the temperature is 50 ' is not exceeded at higher temperatures ; but , as said above , when the zinc is connected with the copper and then insulated , the charge increases towards its ultimate value much more rapidly at higher temperatures than at lower .
At temperatures between 100 ' and 120 ' C. there is a sensible diminution of the ultimate charge after the zinc has been kept for a short time connected with the copper and then insulated .
There is also a slow diminution of the ultimate , or , as we may now call it , the temporarily static , charge when the zinc plate is left insulated for several hours in connexion with I. If a small quantity of either negative or positive electricity be given to I ( always in metallic connexion with the zinc ) , the temporarily static state is reached at about the same rate as the zero would be reached by conduction through the hot glass ( according to Mr. Perry 's experiments , communicated , to the present Meeting ) were the plates both of copper or both of zinc .
After the experiment the surfaces of the copper and zinc plates in contact with the glass were found to be thickly oxidized .
The glass plate was quite cloudy after the experiment , and a repetition of the experiment increased its cloudiness .
This plate .
is the flattened bottom of a flint-glass electrometer-jar .
Three smoother glass plates , tried since , show as yet no signs of decomposition .
At first they only became " exhausted " ( in their power to produce the normal charge in zinc , and copper ) after the plates had been connected for , nearly a day , the glass being at from 100 ' to 120 ' 0 .
; but after a time , although they still gave the normal charge at the beginning of the morning 's experiments , the charge fell to zero quite rapidly ( that is , in about an hour ) , even when the zinc was kept insulated .
Keeping for a length of time the zinc charged negatively ( so as to give to I a greater negative charge than that which it would have in the " temporarily static " condition of the copper , hot glass , and zinc)seemed to have no effect in restoring the normal electrolytic condition ; but I propose to pursue this trial further , especially with longer time for the restorative electrification .
I propose also to return to similar experiments which I made many years ago on the electric relations of copper , ice , and zinc .

