A paper was read , entitled , " Contributions to the Chemical Hi ?
story of Archil and of Litmus .
" By Robert Kane , M.D. , M.R.I.A. Communicated by Francis Bailey , Esq. , V.P.R.S. After a preliminary sketch of the labours of Heeren and of Robiquet in investigating the origin of the beautiful colouring materials termed Archil and Litmus , obtained from different kinds of colourless lichens , and their detection of the two proximate principles termed erythrine and orceine , the author states the object of the inquiries detailed in the present paper to be threefold ; viz. first , to ascertain the primitive form of the colour-making substance in a given species of lichen , and trace the stages through which it passes before the co ?
loured substance is developed ; secondly , to determine the nature of the various colouring substances which exist in the archil of commerce ; and thirdly , to examine the colouring materials of ordinary litmus .
He finds in the lichen Roccella tinctoria the following bodies , either pre-existing in the plant , or formed during the processes employed for its analysis : 1 .
Erythryline ; 2 .
Erythrine ( the Pseudo-erythrine of Heeren ) ; 3 .
Erythrine bitter ; 4 .
Telerythrine ; and 5 .
Roccelline ( the Roccellic acid of Heeren ) .
The properties and constitution of these substances are then described , and the chemical formulae given , which are deducible from their respective ana ?
lyses .
The author finds the archil of commerce to consist essen ?
tially of three ingredients , namely , orceine , erythroleic acid , and azoerythrine ; of each of the two former there exist two modifications , and there is , in addition , a yellow matter .
After comparing his results with those obtained by Heeren , by an examination of the pro ?
ducts evolved by his erythrine in contact with air and with ammonia , and stating reasons for some changes in nomenclature , the author gives the chemical formulae resulting from his own analysis of these different substances .
His inquiries into the constitution of ordinary litmus , which form the last division of his subject , lead him to the conclusion that that substance contains the principles designated by him as Erythrolein , Erythrolitmine , Azolitmine , and Spaniolitmine ; and that the colour ?
ing constituents of litmus are , in their natural condition , red ; the blue substances being produced by combination with a base , which bases in that of commerce are lime , potass , and ammonia ; and there is mixed up in the mass a considerable quantity of chalk and sand .
The details of the analyses of these several substances , and the resulting chemical formula ?
representing their constitution , are then given .
The concluding section of the paper is occujried by an inquiry into the decoloration of the bodies which exist in archil and in litmus .
The latter of these , the author concludes , is reddened by acids , in consequence of their removing the loosely combined ammonia by which the blue colour is produced ; and the so-called hydrogen acids liberate the colouring matter by their combining with the alkali to form bodies ( either chlorides or iodides ) , with which the colouring matter has no tendency to unite .
Hence it appears that the reddening of litmus is no proof that chloride of hydrogen is an acid , and that the double decomposition which occurs is the same in principle , whether hydrogen or a fixed metal come into play .
After detailing the blanching effects of other deoxydizing agents on the colouring matter of litmus , and the action of chlorine on orceine and azolitmine , the author remarks , that in these actions chlorine is subjected to conditions different from those which determine the nature of the results with the generality of organic bodies , and that the displacement of hydrogen , so marked in other cases , does not exist in the class of substances under consideration ; but that , in reality , the products of the bleaching energy of chlorine resemble in constitution the compounds of chlorine which possess bleaching powers .

