I. " Additional Observations of Southern Nebulae .
" In a Letter to Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. , by Lieut. J. HERSCHEL , R.]E .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES .
Received January 4 , 1869 .
3angalore , Dec. 1 , 1868 .
DEAR SIR , -I have the pleasure to subjoin a few additions to my former list of Southern Nebulae spectroscopically examined .
The observations extend from the 24th October to the 20th November .
I will first enumerate those of which no trace of a spectrum of any kind has been detected , and which , I can with confidence state , have no other than a continuous spectrum .
I am enabled to do this for the following reason-that even when the jaws of the slit were entirely removed , so as to command a perfectly free field of view ( in which stellar spectra were frequently recognized ) , no light from these objects was visible .
That no doubt might remain as to the justice of this conclusion , three faint planetary nebulae were looked at in the same way , and were more or less easily recognized as spots of light in the spectroscopic field .
It is much to be regretted that I did not long ago make the experiment ; had I done so I should unquestionably have saved myself many tedious hours lost in vain searching .
The following may safely be erased from a list of nebulk to be examined for evidence of a " linear " character : Nos. 4757 .
" Very bright ; pretty small .
" 27 .
" Very bright ; very large .
" 67 .
" Very bright ; large .
" 1 62 .
" Globular cluster ; bright ; large .
" 163 .
" Very bright ; large .
" 339 .
" Bright ; large .
" *342 .
" Very bright ; pretty large .
" 361 .
" Very bright ; very large .
" 369 .
" Bright ; pretty large .
" t544 .
" Very bright ; very large .
" 604 .
" Very bright ; pretty large .
" t610 .
" Very bright ; large .
" " Very bright ; small .
" 721 .
" Bright ; large .
" 731 .
" Very remarkable ; very bright ; very large ; barely resolvable .
" 741 .
" Globular cluster ; bright ; pretty large .
" 744 .
J " Globular cluster ; very bright ; pretty large .
" 746 .
" Bright ; pretty small .
" 748 .
" Globular cluster ; very bright ; pretty large ; partially resolved .
" 750 .
J " Very bright ; pretty large .
" 747 .
} " Considerably bright ; pretty small .
" 752 .
J " Very bright ; large .
" 755 .
" Bright ; pretty small .
" 767 .
" Very bright ; large .
" 808 .
" Globular dluster ; bright ; considerably large ; partially resolved .
" 823 .
} " Bright ; very large .
" 822 .
J " Pretty bright ; pretty large .
" 828 .
" Very bright ; pretty small " 1009 .
" Very bright ; very large ; partially resolved .
" 1288 .
" Globular clusteOr ; bright ; pretty large .
" The following were not spectroscopically examined , only because they appeared too faint in the telescope : Nos. 279 .
" Bright ; small .
" 81 1 " Bright ; large .
" 813 .
" Bright ; large .
" 815 .
J " Pretty bright ; round .
" 824 .
" Very bright ; very large .
" 916 .
" Very bright ; large .
" The follow ng wer'e C : not identifed : Nos. 73 .
" Very bright ; small .
" [ Not seen on three different nights , wi t clear sky .
] 243 .
" Bright ; small .
" Several small indistinct objects in the field .
273 .
" Very bright ; small .
" Not fund : two indepeendent settings gave the same field .
411 .
" Bright ; small .
" [ No remark .
] 670 .
" Very bright ; round .
" No such object .
No. 685 precedes by 2min .
, and has the same N.P.D. ; it appears as described , very iright in the mriddle , and has a small star involved .
769 " Globular cluster ; very bright- " Not f , :nd on two nights .
Checked AI byNo .
767 ; " very bright ; large .
" In searching for it , found a nebula which agreed well with No. 766 , " pretty faint ; small .
" 1401 .
" Very bright ; small .
" Not recognized ; twice .
I come now to those of which the spectrum has been recognized .
The following have continuous spectra : Nos. 138 .
" Very remarkable ; extremely bright ; extremely large .
" A fine object , and certainly very bright ; but the spectrum was recognized with great difficulty ( through the slit ) .
600 .
" Verybright ; pretty large ; partially resolved .
" Spectrum continuous .
685 .
" Globular cluster ; very bright ; pretty large ; round ; easily resolvable .
" Spectrum continuous-readily .
697 .
l " Very bright ; considerably large .
" Spectrum continuous --without difficulty .
698 .
J " Pretty bright ; pretty small .
" ? ?
715 .
" Very bright ; pretty small .
" Spectrum continuous-barely visible .
748 .
" Globular cluster ; very bright ; pretty large ; round ; partially resolved .
" Spectrum continuous .
1061 .
" Globular cluster ; remarkable ; very bright ; very large ; round ; well resolved .
" Spectrum continuous-bright .
1076 .
" Very bright ; large ; rouind ; barely resolvable .
" Spectrum continuous .
4687 .
" Remarkable ; globular cluster ; bright ; large ; stars .
" Spectrum continuous-bright , almost stellar in middle .
Lastly , I am able to report that one globular cluster proves to be of the same character as the " planetary " nebula , viz.:No .
826 .
" Globular cluster ; very bright ; small ; round ; barely resolvable ( IV .
26 ) .
" Spectrum " ; linear .
" This object shows one principal , one secondary , and one very faint line in the usual places .
It also shows an undoubted continuous spectrum , principally ( but not only ) on the more refrangible side .
This is visible even when the slit is very narrow .
T'he following measurements were taken-that of D by a spirit flame before the object-glass : Prin .
line =5'17 ( D=3 ' 02 ) or D ?
2 16 .
p , , =5 19 ( D=3',02)J No. 1225 .
" A planetary nebula ; pretty bright ; very small ; very little extended ; barely resolvable " ?
No spectrum of this planetary nebula had been obtained in April .
It was now recognized instantly , and without the smallest doubt , as " linear , " or at least apparently monochromatic , in the open field of the 305 spectroscope .
The position of the line has not been measured .
No. 1565 .
" A planetary nebula ; pretty bright ; pretty small ; extremely little extended ; barely resolvable .
" The " linear " character of the spectrum of this object has been already recognized ; but it was again examined , as a test of the advantage of removing the slit .
It is a considerably larger and less bright object than No. 1225 , and situated in a magnificent cluster of stellar points .
In the open field of the spectroscope it appeared as a similar faint patch of light , in the midst of an infinity of streaks .
Nothing could have bleen more conclusive as a test .
No. 1185 .
" IRemalkable ; very bright ; very large ; round ; with tail ; much brighter in middle , a star of 8'9 magnitude .
" A neighbour of the great nebula of Orion .
Examined with/ the slit repeatedly .
On the first occasion the spectrum was described as " linear , but faintly seen ; not certainly seen in presence of the central star .
When the latter is put out , the spectrum becomes broadly continuous , with monochromatic light across it .
" On the next it was , " To-night I could trace no lines .
There is ample light , but it is not 'linear , ' though certainly confined principally to the neighbourhood of the position of the ordinary lines .
The spectrum in any case occupies nearly the width of the field , and is not much less in length .
" On a third occasion I noted that I could " barely trace any lines , while there is a broad patch of spectral light on either side , which is certainly not due to the stellar centre .
" The trace of lines is confirmed on a fourth occasion .
I think I am justified in saying that we have here a -nebula of a class or description intermediate between those which show a clear continuous spectrum only , and those which show bright lines only .
Not that the apparent character of these two extremes is necessarily absolute ; it is far more probable that the non-appearance in either , of the distinguishing characteristic of the other , is relative only .
Indeed there are net wanting instances of nebulae whose place in a series would be short of the latter extreme .
For instance , No. 826 , suplra , and No. 4964 .
" Extremely remarkable ; a planetary nebula ; very bright ; pretty small ; round ; blue .
" Presented " a continuous spectrum and a fourth line ( besides the three usual ones ) ; the first strongly suspected , the last less so .
" The fourth line I find has been noted by Mr. Huggins .
And the great nebula of Orion appears to be of the same order .
I have examined this nebula repeatedly of late , because on the first occasion of looking at No. 1185 I had appended a remark that " the principal nebula shows a great deal of continuous light on this side , " an observation which seemed to require confirmation .
The following extracts from my notebook must speak for themselves : No. 1179 .
The great Nebula of Orion .
Oct. 25 .
" A fourth line , almost beyond question : measured twice with reference to principal line , 7'3-5'05 =2'25 , 7-6-5'06=2'54 , mean 2-4 ; con .
tinuous spectrum suspected , but , owing to moonlight and low altitude , there was no conviction .
" Nov. 7 .
" Previous observation confirmed .
The fourth line is a fact .
The diffused light , which also is certainly visible , to the extent of rendering the edges of the field visible beyond the immediate neighbourhood of the lines , can only be a continuous spectrum .
" Nov. 9 .
" Fourth line , 7'9-5'1=-2'8 , very rough .
I am satisfied that there is a continuous spectrum , though I am not certain it may not be dispersed stellar light .
" Ditto , later : " I have no longer any hesitation as to the continuous spectrum .
" Nov. 10 .
" Fourth line , 7'92 , 7'88 , 7-91 , --5'09 2'81 * .
Continuous spectrum distinctly ending coincidently with the bright lines at the edge of the bright part of the nebula .
" 'here is nothing very remarkable in the presence either of an additional line or of a continuous spectrum ; but as this nebula has been examined very carefully in England without the detection of eithert , it appeared necessary to put both beyond question ; taken , too , in connexion with the very different character of its near neighbour , 1185 , and with others in which the relative intensity of the two kinds of spectra varies in degree , it appears to break down , to a considerable extent , the barrier between " gaseous " and " solid " nebulous matter , and to lead towards the inference that condensation is in a more or less advanced stage in all nebulae , and in the vast majority of cases , including all " clusters , " has become complete .
I am sorry to say that I shall be unable to prosecute these observations for some months , as my survey duties require my presence elsewhere .
In the meanwhile I should be glad to learn whether the course I have been pursuing appears a desirable one to continue , now that so large a number of the southern nebule have been tested , or whether a reexamination would be preferred .
I remain , dear Sir , yours truly , J. IHERSCHEL .

