1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
213 reappeared ; it was taken just afterwards , bat still shows some of the " red flames .
" I took the duration of totality with a stop-watch , but afterwards by a momentary inadvertence lost the record .
I may add that at a time which I estimated to be from 15 to 20 seconds after the sun 's reappearance , I could with the naked eye easily see the coronal light round the preceding limb of the moon , and called the attention of the bystanders to the fact .
In conclusion I would add as some evidence of the clear sky which we commonly get in Nelson , that from my own knowledge not only the whole of this eclipse , but egress in both the late transits of Venus could not have been better seen than from this place .
( Signed ) A. S. Atkinson .
III .
" Report on a Series of Specimens of the Deposits of the Nile Delta , obtained by the recent Boring Operations .
" By J. W. Judd , F.R.S. , Sec. G.S. , Professor of Geology in the Normal Sehool of Science and Royal School of Mines .
Communicated by desire of the Delta Committee .
Received November 12 , 1885 .
Neither of the borings made for the Royal Society , under the superintendence of the Engineers attached to the Army of Occupation in Egypt , appears to have reached the rocky floor of the Nile-Valley , nor do the samples examined show any indication of an approach to such floor .
What were at first supposed to be pebbles in one of the samples from Tantah , prove on examination to be calcareous concretions ( " race " or " kunkur " ) .
Nevertheless these borings appear to have reached a greater depth than all previous ones in the same district , except the boring made near the Barrage , which is said to have attained a depth of 122 feet without reaching the rock , and one at Rosetta which exceeded 153 feet .
The deepest boring made by the French engineers in 1799 , that at Siut , attained a depth of 77 feet 7f inches ; at a later date M. Linant de Bellefonds ( Linant Bay ) carried a boring near the apex of the Delta to the depth of 72 feet .
In the case of the excavations made for Mr. Horner about thirty years ago , with the aid of a grant from the Donation Fund of the Royal Society , few of the borings exceeded 50 feet in depth ; the deepest being that at Memphis , which reached 59 feet 10 inches .
The three borings now reported upon have been carried to depths of 45 , 73 , and 84 feet respectively .
The samples from these borings , like those examined by Mr. Horner , show that the delta-deposits all consist of admixtures , in Prof. J. W. Judd .
[ Nov. 19 , varying proportions , of blown sand and alluvial mud .
I can find no evidence to support the suggestion made by Sir J. W. Dawson , F.R.S. ( see Colonel Maitland 's letter of 21st January , 1884 , and " Geol .
Mag. , " Dec. 3 , vol. i , p. 292 ) from a hasty examination of the specimens , that " at a depth of 30 or 40 feet the alluvial mud rests on desert sand ; " on the contrary these borings , like those of older date , show that the deposits of the Nile Valley consist of a succession of different beds in some of which sand , and in others mud , forms the predominant constituent.* The chemical composition of the Nile-mud has been investigated by many chemists\#151 ; by Regnault in 1812 , by Lassaigne in 1844 , by Lajouchere in 1850 , by Payen and Poinset in 1850 , and by Houzeau in 1869 .
At the request of Mr. Horner , Messrs. Johnson and Brazier undertook a series of careful analyses of the muds and the sands of the Nile-Valley deposits in Dr. Hofmann 's laboratory , and the results which they obtained are published in the " Philosophical Transactions , " vol. 145 ( 1855 ) .
But hitherto , so far as I am aware , no detailed investigation of the microscopical characters of the deposits has been undertaken , and to this investigation I have therefore devoted my special attention .
The methods of examination were determined upon after consultation with Professor T. G. Bonney , F.R.S. , P.G.S. , to whose advice and assistance I am greatly indebted ; the preparations were made in the Geological Laboratory of the Normal School of Science and Royal School of Mines .
The general results attained by this study of the Nile-Valley deposits are as follows .
The sands , when separated from the mud by washing , are found to be made up of two kinds of grains , the larger being perfectly rounded and polished , while the smaller , on the contrary , are often subangular or angular .
The larger and well-rounded grains may be described as microscopic pebbles ; their surfaces are most exquisitely smoothed and polished , and their forms are either globular or ellipsoidal .
In size they vary greatly , being occasionally as large as a small pea .
They only very occasionally exhibit traces of deposits of iron-oxides upon their surfaces .
The great majority of the well-rounded grains consist of quartzose materials .
* [ The deep boring at Rosetta , of which an account has recently been sent to the Royal Society by Colonel Maitland , R.E. , shows that alluvial mud and clay occurred to the depth of 33 feet ; thence to the depth of 94 feet various sands and clays are recorded ; from 94 feet to 123 feet " hard clay in lumps " was found ; then various sands and clays to 143 feet ; the last 10 feet of the boring was in coarse sand and pebbles .
A fragment of red granite , with undoubted marks of human workmanship upon it , is said to have been obtained at a depth of 79 feet 4 inches.\#151 ; J. W. J. , 18th December , 1885 .
] 1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the R'ile Delta , .
Embedding these grains in Canada-balsam , and examining them by transmitted light , with the aid of the polariscope , we are enabled to study their mineral characters with facility .
The majority of the grains consist of colourless quartz , though occasionally rose-quartz , amethystine quartz , citrine , and smoky quartz also occur .
This quartz exhibits unmistakable evidence of having been derived from granitic rocks ; it is constantly seen to be traversed by bands of liquid- and gas-cavities , and very frequently contains numerous black , hair-like inclusions ( rutile ?
) .
Much more rarely we detect grains of quartz which consist of aggregates of small crystals , and are evidently derived from metamorphic rocks .
With the pure quartz-grains we find also a considerable number of rounded particles of red and brown jasper and of black Lydian stone , with some fragments of silicified wood .
But in addition to the different varieties of quartz , particles of felspar are sometimes found among these large , rounded grains .
What is very remarkable about these felspar-grains is the slight traces of kaolinization which they exhibit ; they are in fact almost as fresh and unaltered as the grains of quartz themselves .
Ordinary orthoclase and microcline are most frequent , while plagioclase felspar is comparatively rare .
With the rounded grains of quartz and felspar , a few examples of hornblende and other minerals , including jade , also occur .
But far greater is the number of mineral species , especially the most easily cleavable ones , which are represented in the smaller , sub-angular and angular , sand-grains .
In addition to the minerals already mentioned , I have recognised several varieties of mica , augite , enstatite ?
, tourmaline , sphene , iolite ( cordierite ) zircon , fluorspar , and magnetite , all in a nearly unaltered condition .
The only fossils found in these sands were evidently derived ones ; they include the fragments of silicified wood already mentioned , and a waterworn nucleus of an Ammonites ( Jurassic ?
) .
It is evident that these sand-grains have been formed by the breaking up of granitic and metamorphic rocks , or of older sandstones derived directly from such rocks .
The larger grains exhibit the perfect rounding and polishing now recognised as characteristic of iEolian action ; * the smaller ones from their larger surfaces in proportion to their weight have undergone far less attrition in their passage through the air ; but it is fair to conclude that the sands are really " desert-sand , " derived from the vast tracts which lie on either side of the Nile-Valley , and swept into it by the action of the wind .
* It is hardly necessary to point out that the study of these desert-sands entirely supports the important conclusions arrived at by Mr. H. C. Sorby , F.R.S. , and Mr. J. A. Phillips , F.R.S. , concerning the agencies by which the rounding of sand-grains is effected .
See " Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , " vol. 36 ( 1880 ) .
" Proceedings , p. 50 .
Ibid. , vol. 37 ( 1881 ) , pp. 6\#151 ; 26 .
216 Prof. J. W. Judd .
[ Nov. 19 , The mud is a material of which it is much , more difficult to study the mineral characters than the sand , owing to the extreme minuteness of its particles .
It is a very striking fact , however , that kaolin , which constitutes the predominant constituent of clays , appears to be almost altogether absent from these Nile-muds .
Chips and flakes of quartz , felspar , mica , hornblende , and other minerals can be readily recognised ; and it is often evident that the unaltered particles of such minerals make up the greater part , if not the whole mass , of the finegrained deposits .
The mineral particles are of course mingled with a larger or smaller proportion of organic particles .
Frustules of Diatomacece occur in these muds , as was pointed out by Ehrenberg , but unless special precautions were observed in collecting the samples it would be unsafe to draw any deductions from their presence .
In the case of the Tantah boring we find another kind of material besides the sand and mud .
Almost all the samples from this boring contain angular fragments of an apparently tufaceous limestone .
In addition to this we find minute sand-grains cemented by .calcareous matter into small pellets of various sizes , and the particles of mud united in the same way are thus converted into argillo-calcareous concretions .
In a sample taken from a depth of 70 feet in the Tantah boring , a number of irregular masses of this argillaceous limestone occurred ; some of these were nearly 1 inch in diameter .
, and were at first supposed to be pebbles .
On examination they were found to contain\#151 ; Calcic carbonate ... ... ... ... ... ... .77-3 Argillaceous matter ... ... ... ... . . .
22'7 100-0 There can be no doubt that sources of ( this calcic carbonate must exist near Tantah , probably in the form of calcareous springs .
The striking peculiarities of these sands and muds of the Nile Valley appear to be capable of a simple explanation .
In countries where rain falls frequently and vegetation abounds , water charged with carbonic acid is constantly penetrating into the rocks and breaking up the compound silicates of which they are composed ; the silicates of the alkalies and the alkaline earths being decomposed and their constituents removed in solution , while the silicate of alumina becomes hydrated and is carried away in suspension by water in the form of kaolin .
In this way the felspars and nearly all other compound silicates are affected to such an extent that in most granitic and metamorphic rocks they show evidence of extensive " kaolinization , " while the clays derived from them are made up for the most part of the crystalline plates of kaolin .
But in dry and barren tracts , like portions of Northern Africa , none of these agencies will operate , and the 1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
disintegration of the solid rocks is effected by mechanical means ; the most potent of these mechanical agents of disintegration are the heat of the sun , causing the unequal expansion of the minerals which build up the rocks , the force of the wind , producing constant attrition of the disjoined particles , and torrential rains .
This being the case , it will be readily understood that the sand-grains will include felspar and other minerals in a nearly unaltered condition , while in countries where the chemical agents of the atmosphere come into play such particles would be more or less completely converted into kaolin .
In the same way , the mud , instead of consisting of scales of kaolin originating from chemical action , will be formed of particles of the chemically unaltered minerals reduced to the finest dust by purely mechanical agencies .
The chemical analyses which have been made of these Nile-mnds tend to support these conclusions .
Instead of containing large quantities of combined water , as do all the ordinary clays , their composition is that of a mixture of anhydrous minerals .
As the analyses hitherto made have none of them been undertaken with the object of estimating the exact proportions of hygroscopic and combined water in these muds , it would be well if some more careful determination of these two constituents could be made .
But there is fortunately a kind of evidence , derived from chemical analysis , which is of the greatest value from its bearing on the questions we .are now discussing\#151 ; that , namely , which is obtained from a study of the composition of the Nile-waters .
It must be remembered that the Nile is a river of a very peculiar and exceptional character .
The last tributary which it receives is the Atbara , which falls into it in lat. 17 ' 38 ' N. ; from that point to its mouth , in 31 ' 25 ' N. lat. , the river does not receive a single affluent ; for a distance of 1400 miles , indeed , it obtains no fresh supply of water except what is brought to it by superficial torrents after heavy rains in Lower Egypt .
It has been clearly demonstrated that , after receiving the Atbara , the Nile undergoes a continual diminution in volume in its course through Egypt .
This is no doubt in part due to percolation of the water through the delta-deposits , and in part to the water being drawn off in canals for purposes of irrigation ; but a large part of this diminution in volume must certainly be ascribed to the great evaporation which must be going on from the surface of the river during the last 1400 miles of its course .
The diminution which takes place in the volume of the Nile in its downward course is illustrated by the following estimates:\#151 ; The French engineers in 1799 showed that at Siut , 240 miles above Cairo , the quantity of water passing down the river per second amounted to 678 cubic metres at low water , and 10,247 cubic metres during high water .
Prof. J. W. Judd .
[ Nov. 19 , But at Cairo , according to M. Linant de Bellefonds ( Linant Bey ) , the flow per second amounts only to 414 cubic metres at low water , and 9440 cubic metres at high water .
If these numbers can be relied upon , the Nile in this part of its course loses nearly 40 per cent , of its water in a distance of 240 miles when it is low , and nearly 8 per cent , when it is in flood !
M. Talabot has calculated that only 90,000 millions of cubic metres of water are discharged per annum from the principal mouth of the Nile , which gives an average discharge of 2680 cubic metres per second ; while M. Girard estimates that only a comparatively small quantity escapes by the Rosetta and Damietta mouths .
Although we shall not be able to calculate the exact loss of the Nile by evaporation in the course of 1400 miles , through one of the hottest and driest regions of the globe , yet we cannot doubt that this loss is enormous .
Now the effect of this constant evaporation must be to concentrate the saline matters held in solution , and we might therefore anticipate that the waters of the Nile in Lower Egypt would contain an exceptionally high percentage of saline matters in solution .
But what are the actual facts of the case ?
Dr. C. Meymott Tidy has recently made a series of analyses of the Nile-water taken at Cairo during each month of the year , and the results which he has obtained are of the greatest interest to geologists .
These analyses enable us to make the following comparisons , which we have arranged in tabular form*:\#151 ; .
Total solids in grs. per gallon Filtered !
water from Nile .
Filtered water from Thames .
Filtered water from Lea .
Filtered water from Severn .
Filtered water from Shannon .
9 53 to 14-33 18 24 to 21 -63 17 99 to 23 -34 13-95 to 22-75 15-30 to 20-20 r 2-05 6-89 6-16 4-03 5-82 Proportion of lime " -\lt ; to to to to to l 4-35 8-74 9 -28 5-43 7-28 r 5 0 12*9 13 0 10 -o 9 5 Hardness before boiling ... .
\#171 ; \lt ; to to to to to 1 8-0 14-3 15-9 14 3 12-5 r 1 2 3*1 3-3 5 0 3 -5 Hardness after boiling .\lt ; to to to to to l 2*8 4*2 4*4 9-5 4-7 * " Journal of the Chemical Society , " vol. xxxvii , 1880 , " Transactions , " pp. 268 \#151 ; 327 .
1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
The examination of this table shows that the waters of the Nile , judged either by the proportion of solids in solution , the percentage of lime , or by the temporary and permanent hardness , exhibits some very remarkable anomalies .
That the variation in the quantities of dissolved salts at different seasons of the year should he much greater than in the case of any of the other rivers , is not surprising when we bear in mind the great and rapid additions to the volume of the river during seasons of flood .
But it is startling to find that the water of the Nile , instead of containing a much larger proportion of saline matter than other rivers\#151 ; as we might anticipate from the enormous evaporation constantly going on from its surface in reality contains far less dissolved matter than any of the other rivers here compared with it .
This contrast is scarcely less striking in the case of the comparison with the Severn and the Shannon , which flow over Palaeozoic rocks , than in that of the Thames and the Lea , which drain areas occupied by Mesozoic deposits .
A. little consideration will show , however , that this startling and seemingly anomalous result is capable of a very simple explanation .
The substances dissolved in the water of rivers is of course derived from the materials composing the rocks of the river-basin , through the action of water holding carbonic acid or other acids in solution .
In this kind of action , rain which takes up the gases contained in the atmosphere , and then percolates into the interstices of rocks , plays a most important part .
Rain is , in fact , the great agent of chemical disintegration , and where rain falls the complex silicates composing the hardest rocks are attacked , the silicates of potash , soda , lime , magnesia , and iron being broken up and carried away in solution , while the silicate of alumina takes its hydrated form of kaolin , and remains behind or is removed in suspension .
But in districts where there is little or no vegetation and the rainfall is sudden and torrential , this chemical disintegration , as has been already pointed out , is replaced by totally different kinds of action .
Under the influence of variations of temperature , having an enormous range , the rocks made up of crystals having different coefficients of expansion , in different minerals and indeed in different directions in the same crystal , undergo mechanical disintegration , and the fragments thus formed are driven backwards and forwards by wind , being thereby subjected to constant attrition .
Of this latter kind of action , as we have seen , all the larger particles in the Nile Delta deposits exhibit the most unmistakable evidence .
Hence we are led by an examination of the composition of the Nile-water to the same conclusion as was reached by the study of microscopical characters of the muds and sands of the delta , that while in the rainy districts of the temperate zones , the disintegration of rocks is mainly effected by chemical agencies , in the desert areas Prof. J. W. Judd .
[ Nov. 19 , of the tropics the same work is almost exclusively effected by mechanical forces .
The products of these two kinds of action are , however , essentially different .
In the former case we have produced crystals of kaolin , which form the basis of all the true clays , a large quantity of lime- , magnesia- , iron- , soda- , and potash-salts with silica passing into solution ; while , in the latter case , the several minerals of the rock are simply reduced to fragments of varying size and form .
All the observations described in the present report are in entire harmony with this explanation .
The comparatively unaltered condition of the felspars and other complex silicates in the sands ; the absence of kaolin from the muds , and the presence of the chips and flakes of the unattacked minerals in the muds , and finally the small quantity of dissolved matter in the Nile-water , in spite of the enormous concentration it must have undergone by evaporation\#151 ; all point to this same conclusion .
In the estimates which have been made of the rate of subaerial denudation in different parts of the globe , it has usually been assumed that this action is similar to what is seen taking place in Europe and in North America .
But the observations detailed in this report prove that in tropical districts , where little or no vegetation exists , and the rainfall is sudden and torrential , the disintegration of rocks , though not , perhaps , less rapid than in temperate climes , is different alike in its origin and in its products .
It has often been pointed out by chemical geologists , that metamor-phic action could not have produced many of the schists and gneisses from sedimentary rocks , for the former are rich in potash , soda , and other materials which have been dissolved out from the latter during the disintegration of the rock-masses from which they were derived .
The recognition of a kind of action whereby great masses of sedimentary materials can be produced , rich in those substances which are usually removed in a state of solution , is not destitute of interest at the present time , when the question of the origin of the crystalline schists and gneisses is one that presses for solution .
Appendix .
Examination of the Samples obtained during the Recent Borings in Egypt .
Portions of the several samples , varying in weight from 8 to 18 grams , were dried at 110 ' C. , and then weighed .
These portions were , by careful levigation , separated into mud and sand , which being dried at 110 ' C. and weighed , afforded the necessary data for calculating the percentage composition of each sample .
One specimen of each sample of sand thus obtained was mounted 1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
dry for study by reflected light ; a second specimen from each was mounted in Canada-balsam , so as to allow of the internal structure and optical properties of the sand-grains being studied .
The fine particles composing the several samples of mud were so mounted as to be capable of examination by transmitted light , with the highest powers of the microscope .
The results obtained in the case of each sample were as follows :\#151 ; I. Boring at Kasr-el Cairo .
Sample 1 .
Depth , 6 ft. Loam of a dark reddish-brown colour .
Contains 577 per cent , sand , 94-33 per cent. mud .
$and.\#151 ; Dark coloured ; includes fragments of red brick , green glass , straw , rootlets , and other vegetable matters .
Rounded grains of white quartz , evidently derived from granitic rocks , with a few of jasper and rose-quartz ; angular or subangular grains of quartz , hornblende , \amp ; c. , with many of fine-grained , impure sandstone .
Mud.\#151 ; Much vegetable matter , with frustules of diatoms .
Minute chips and flakes of quartz and other minerals , with plates of biotite .
Sample 2 .
Depth , 16 ft. " Very sandy loam , of pale reddish-brown tint .
Contains 86 27 per cent , sand , and 13-73 per cent. mud .
Sand , composed of about equal portions of well-rounded and angular or subangular grains .
It is of a white or slightly yellowish tint .
The rounded grains consist of white ( granitic ) quartz , rose-quartz , and red , brown , and black jasper ; with pebbles of slightly kaolinised orthoclase felspar .
The angular and subangular grains consist of quartz , felspar , hornblende , sphene , and magnetite .
Mud.\#151 ; Appears to be largely made up of chips and flakes of the above minerals with biotite .
Sample 3 .
Depth , 17 ft. 6 in .
Very sandy loam .
Consists of 79*65 per cent , sand , 20-35 per cent , mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Very similar to last sample , but the well-rounded grains are fewer , and the angular and subangular ones more numerous .
The latter consist of quartz , orthoclase , plagioclase-felspar ( rare ) , hornblende , augite ; also black and brown jasper .
Mud.\#151 ; Similar to last sample .
Sample 4 .
Depth , 38 ft. 6 in .
Sandy loam .
Consists of 65 05 per cent , sand , and 34*95 per cent , mud .
Prof. J. W. Judd .
[ Nov. 19 , Sand.\#151 ; Mostly angular or subangular .
Only a few well-rounded grains .
Consists of quartz ( granitic ) , with , a few particles derived from metamorphic rocks .
Microcline and orthoclase , but only very slightly kaolinised ; plagioclase-felspar , hornblende , augite ( ?
) , sphene ( P ) , magnetite ; with red , brown , and black jasper .
Mud.\#151 ; As in last .
Sample 5 .
Depth , 40 ft. 6 in .
Sandy loam .
Consists of 80'83 per cent , sand , 19*17 per cent , mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Consists of about equal proportions of rounded and of angular or subangular grains .
The materials are quartz , with fine inclusions of rutile , apatite ( ?
) , \amp ; c. , with bands of liquid and gas cavities , microcline and orthoclase ( slightly kaolinised ) , plagioclase-felspar , hornblende , red , brown , and black jasper , glauconite ( ?
) grains .
Mud.\#151 ; As in last .
Sample 6 .
Depth , 45 ft. Sandy loam .
Consists of 68*72 per cent , sand , 31*28 per cent , mud .
Sand.\#151 ; The angular and subangular particles preponderate over the rounded ones .
The minerals represented are quartz ( granitic ) , with hair-like inclusions ( rutile ) , quartz of metamorphic origin , microcline and orthoclase ( slightly kaolinised ) , plagioclase-felspar , hornblende , and biotite .
Also red , black , brown , and green jasper .
Mud.\#151 ; As in last .
II .
Boring at Kafr-ez-Zayat .
Sample 1 .
Depth , 3 ft. Mould of yellowish-brown colour .
Consists of 2*35 per cent , sand , and 97*65 mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Mostly angular or subangular , but a few well-rounded grains present .
Consists of grains of quartz ( granitic ) , with many acicular crystals inclosed , and bands of cavities .
Fragments of hornblende abound .
Orthoclase and a little plagioclase-felspar , jasper , and small calcareous concretions .
Vegetable matter .
Mud.\#151 ; Contains much organic matter .
Frustules of diatoms .
Sample 2 .
Depth , 4 ft. Light coloured , sandy loam .
Consists of 30*42 per cent , sand , 69*58 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; About an equal admixture of rounded with angular or 1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
subangular grains .
Consists of the usual minerals , bat mica ( biotite ) in thin brown plates occurs in tolerable abundance .
Mud.\#151 ; Presenting the usual characters .
Sample 3 .
Depth , 11 ft. Pale coloured , very sandy loam .
Consists of 50*99 per cent , sand , 49*01 per cent. mud .
Sand.__Mostly angular or subangular , with a few well-rounded grains .
The usual minerals , with smoky quartz , tourmaline , and sphene ( ?
) .
Fragments of silicified wood .
Mud.\#151 ; Presents the usual characters .
Sample 4 .
Depth , 19 ft. Coarse sand of ash-grey colour .
Consists of 87 41 per cent. sand .
and 12*59 per cent. mud .
, gaud.__For the most part made up of large , well-rounded grains , nearly all of which are colourless quartz ( granitic ) , with a few of iasper and felspar ( including orthoclase , microcline , and plagioclase ) .
Also a few calcareous concretions .
The smaller sand grains are sometimes angular , and sometimes subangular ; they consist of the usual minerals , including both hornblende and mica .
Mud.\#151 ; Consists almost entirely of inorganic particles .
Sample 5 .
Depth , 26 ft. Very coarse , nearly white sand .
Consists of 90-19 per cent , sand , 9"81 per cent. mud .
Sand___The coarser grains are nearly all well-rounded , and are , m fact , converted into beautiful pebbles .
These larger grains are usually quartz ( granitic ) , but well-rounded fragments of hornblende and felspar also occur , with red , yellow , and brown jasper by no means rarely .
The smaller grains , which are usually angular or subangular , include a greater variety of materials .
Mud.\#151 ; Composed almost wholly of mineral particles .
Sample 6 .
Depth , 35 ft. Sand similar to last , but finer grained .
Consists of 86*42 per cent , sand , 13*58 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; The coarser particles usually well-rounded and composed ot quartz ( granitic ) , with numerous and large liquid inclusions , with a little felspar and hornblende .
There occurred in this sample a calcareous fragment which appeared to be the nucleus of an Ammonites ( Jurassic ?
) .
The finer sand , which is angular or subangular , consists of the usual minerals , the quartz of metamorphic rocks being commoner than is usually the case .
Mud.\#151 ; Of usual character .
VOL. xxxix .
Q Prof. J. W. Judd .
[ Nov. 19 , Sample 7 .
Depth , 40 ft. Dark coloured sand .
Consists of 81*94 per cent , sand , and 18*06 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Composed of very different sized particles ; the coarser being nearly always well-rounded pebbles of colourless quartz , with some jasper .
A large proportion of the finer sand-grains in this sample are also well rounded .
Mud.\#151 ; Of usual character .
Sample 8 .
Depth , 48 ft. Lighter coloured sand .
Consists of 87*23 per cent , sand , and 12*77 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Varies greatly in coarseness , many of the smaller grains being well rounded .
The rounded grains are almost all colourless quartz ( granitic ) , but smoky quartz , rose-quartz , citrine , and jasper , are not rare .
The finer sand consists of the usual minerals .
Mud.\#151 ; Usual characters .
Sample 9 .
Depth , 55 ft ' .
Dark coloured mud .
Consists of 0*25 per cent , sand , and 99*75 per cent. clay .
Sand.\#151 ; Fine grained , and ' composed in great part of calcareous concretions of the muddy particles .
Most of the other grains are angular , and consist of the usual minerals- ; well-rounded quartz grains are very rare in this sample .
Mud.\#151 ; Consisting of coarser particles than usual , is seen to be made up of quartz , felspar , hornblende* , and mica fragments , and kaolin particles are rare .
Sample 10 .
Depth , 60 ft. Dark coloured sand , clay , or mud .
Consists of 12*60 per cent , sand , and 87*40 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Mostly well-rounded grains of quartz , with hornblende and calcareous concretions by no means rare .
Grains of black carbonised vegetable matter .
Mud.\#151 ; Contains much organic matter and some kaolin particles , with the same mineral fragments as in the last sample.- Sample 11 .
Depth , 66 ft. Dark coloured very sandy clay .
Consists of 62*07 per cent , sand , and 37*93 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Mostly fine grained , and the particles generally angular .
A few well-rounded quartz-particles ; .
plagioclase and orthoclase felspar , hornblende , \amp ; c. , also occur .
Several angular and subangular frag1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
225 ments of a clear glass exhibiting strain-phenomena by polarised light \#151 ; probably of artificial origin .
Mud\#151 ; Almost wholly composed of very fine-grained , inorganic particles .
Sample 12 .
Depth , 75 ft. Lighter coloured , sandy clay .
Consists of 66-38 per cent , sand , and 36'62 per cent. mud .
Sand\#151 ; Of very different degrees of fineness , the coarser grains being nearly all well rounded .
The usual minerals are seen , including very fine microcline and large pieces of muscovite .
Mud.\#151 ; Consists of inorganic particles , none very fine .
Quartz , felspar , and hornblende can be recognised among the larger ones .
III .
Boring at Tantah .
Sample 1 .
Depth , 4 ft. Dark coloured mould .
Consists of 1*71 per cent , sand , and 98"29 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Generally angular or subangular , with some rounded grains .
Many fragments of brick , and some splinters of green glass .
Many calcareous concretions .
Much carbonaceous matter .
Mud.\#151 ; Consists principally of organic matter , with some mineral fragments .
Sample 2 .
Depth , 8 ft. 6 in .
Hard brown clay .
Consists of 7*27 per cent , sand , and 92-73 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Contains both coarse , rounded grains and finer , angular or subangular ones .
Quartz , hornblende , and the other minerals usually present are represented .
Pale coloured granular calcareous particles .
Dark coloured argillo-calcareous particles ( like those represented on a large scale at greater depths ) .
Mud.\#151 ; Generally very fine grained , with some organic particles .
Sample 3 .
Depth , 18 ft. Hard brownish clay .
Consists of 8 " 78 per cent , sand , and 9122 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Made up of granular calcareous particles , with only a few grains of sand , rounded or angular , consisting of quartz and the usual minerals .
One fragment of red brick , and a number of particles of black slag , full of bubbles ( resembling slag of Roman iron-furnaces ) .
Mud.\#151 ; Contains some coarse particles of different minerals .
Prof. J. W. Judd .
[ Nov. 19 , Sample 4 .
Depth , 22 ft. 6 in .
Dark coloured loam .
Consists of 31'56 per cent , sand , and 68'44 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Consists of an admixture of rounded subangular and angular grains of the usual minerals .
A smaller admixture of calcareous particles of both types .
Mud.\#151 ; Consists largely of fine fragments of the usual minerals .
Sample 5 .
Depth , 31 ft. Dark coloured sandy loam .
Consists of 39'43 per cent , sand , and 60 57 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Made up df fine-grained materials , in which subaugular fragments predominate ; they consist of the usual minerals , with a few light coloured calcareous concretions .
Mud.\#151 ; Consists of coarse particles of the usual minerals .
Sample 6 .
Depth , 40 ft. Dark coloured sand .
Consists of 80-70 per cent , sand , and 19'30 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Much coarser than usual , the particles mostly well rounded ; they may be called , indeed , quartz pebbles .
The usual minerals are represented , with the addition of zircon and enstatite ( F ) .
Calcareous concretions and a derived fossil ( obscure ) .
Mud.\#151 ; Very fine grained .
Sample 7 .
Depth , 46 ft. Lighter coloured very coarse sand .
Consists of 95'90 per cent , sand , 4'10 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Made up of coarse grains , all well rounded and polished .
Milky quartz and amethyst recognised .
Only a small quantity of angular and subangulur fragments .
Calcareous concretions present .
Mud.\#151 ; Yery fine grained .
Sample 8 .
Depth , 55 ft. Yery coarse sand .
Consists of 97 71 per cent , sand , and 2'29 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Made up of coarse particles of different minerals , all well rounded ; some angular fragments of limestone .
Among the rounded particles the following minerals were detected : colourless ( granitic ) quartz , citrine , jasper , milky and rose quartz , iolite ( cordierite ) , tourmaline , nephrite ( ?
) .
Mud.\#151 ; Small in quantity , and very fine grained .
1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
Sample 9 .
Depth , 56 ft. Excessively coarse-grained sand .
Consists of 99 53 per cent , sand , and 0*47 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Made up of large well-rounded grains , of quartz of all colours , with jasper , \amp ; c. Angular fragments of limestone of a tufaceous character of considerable* size .
Fluorspar.- One piece of jade which did not show signs of being worked .
Mud.\#151 ; Very fine grained .
Sample 10 .
Depth , 58 ft. Reddish-brown sandy loam .
Consists of 59'09 per cent. sand , , and 40*91 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Coarse well-rounded particles , with an admixture of angular ones .
Among rounded particles , several of jade .
Other minerals as usual , with black jasper or Lydian stone , tourmaline , fluorspar .
Angular fragments of tufaceous , limestone , containing sand grains .
Mud.\#151 ; Very fine grained , with some organic matter .
Sample 11. .
Depth , 68 .
ft. Hard reddish-brown clay , with some calcareo-argillaceous concretions .
Consists of " 7.'76 per cent , sand , and 92*24 per cent. mud .
Sand.\#151 ; Admixture of large well-rounded particles , of quartz and smaller subangular ones , of different minerals , with irregular calcareo-argillaceous grains .
Mud.\#151 ; Made up of coarse particles of different minerals .
Sample 12 .
Depth , .
73 ft. Ash-grey sandy loam. .
Consists of 59*95 per cent , sand , and 40*05 per cent. clay .
Sand.\#151 ; Rather fine , and mostly subangular or angular , with some large and well-rounded grains .
The usual minerals are present , , including amethyst and milky quartz .
Mud.\#151 ; Rather coarse grained , and consisting of recognisable mineral particles .
The samples , with the preparations made from them , , have , by the desire of the Delta Committee of the Royal Society , been deposited in the .
British Museum , Natural .
History , Cromwell Road , South , Kensington , .

