120 Development of the Electric Organ of Raia batis .
[ Apr. 26 , April26 , 1888 .
Professor Gr .
Gr .
STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Coagulation of the Blood .
" Preliminary Communication .
By W. D. Halliburton , M.D. , B.Sc. , Assistant Professor of Physiology , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Received March 20 , 1888 .
[ Publication deferred .
] II .
" On the Development of the Electric Organ of Raia batis .
" By J. C. Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of Natural History , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received March 21 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The paper consists of a short description of the electric organs found in the skate genus , and of an account of the development of the electric organ of the common grey skate ( j batis ) .
It is shown that while in some skates ( e.g. , Raia batis and others ) the organ is made up of disk-shaped bodies , in others ( e.g. , Raia fullonica)it consists of numerous cup-shaped structures provided with long or short stems .
The disks ( with the development of which the paper chiefly deals ) consist essentially of three layers , viz. , ( 1 ) an electric plate in front in which the nerves end ; ( 2 ) a striated layer which supports the electric plate ; and ( 3 ) an alveolar layer , posterior to which is a thick cushion of gelatinous tissue .
Each disk is formed in connexion with a muscular fibre .
In young embryos there is no indication of an electric organ , but in an embryo 6 or 7 cm .
in length , some of the muscular fibres at each side of the notochord are found in process of conversion into long slender clubs having their heads nearest the root of the tail .
The club-stage having been reached , the muscular fibre next 1888 .
] Aluminium in certain Vascular Cryptoyams .
assumes the form of a mace , and later the anterior end further expands to form a relatively large disk , while the remainder of the original fibre persists as a slender ribbon-shaped appendage .
As the head of the club enlarges to form a disk , it passes through an indistinct cup stage , which somewhat resembles the cups of the adult Baia fullonica , hence it may be inferred that in Baia the organ has been arrested in its development .
The conversion of the muscular fibre into a club is largely caused by the increase at its anterior end of muscle corpuscles .
These corpuscles eventually arrange themselves , either in front of the head of the club , to give rise to the electric plate , or they migrate backwards to form at the junction of the head of the club with its stem the alveolar layer .
The striated layer , which is from the first devoid of nuclei , seems to be derived from the anterior striated portion of the club .
The gelatinous tissue between the disks and the ccnnective tissue investing them , are derived from the embryonic connective tissue developing disks .
III .
" On the Occurrence of Aluminium in Certain Vascular Cryptogams .
" By A. H. Church , M.A. , F.C.S. Communicated by Dr. J. H. Gilbert , F.R.S. Received March 29 , 1888 .
Most of the older and fairly complete analyses of plant-ashes disclosed the presence of alumina in sensible quantities .
Gradually , however , as analytical methods became more exact , it was generally recognised that this constituent had been derived from extraneous sources and not from the plants themselves ; alumina had in fact been introduced by the employment of glass and porcelain vessels , ot impure reagents , and of imperfectly cleansed vegetable products .
Even when traces of this oxide were obtained in analyses conducted under the most favourable conditions , an adventitious origin was assigned to them , and so the item of alumina disappeared entirely from the tables of the constituents of plant-ashes .
Yet there were some conspicuous exceptions , although these were confined to certain cryptogams .
For Ritthausen in 1851 ( ' Journ. Prakt .
Chem. , ' vol. 53 , p. 413 ) found " much alumina " in the ash of Lycopodium tum , Linn. , while Alderholdt in 1852 ( 'Ann .
Chem. Pharm. , ' vol. 82 , p. Ill ) determined the percentage of alumina in the ash of the same Lycopodium to be 51'85 in the plant when gathered in March , and 57'36 when collected in November The same chemist found 26'65 per cent , of alumina in the ash of Lycopodium clavatum .
Again , in 1856 , Solms-Laubach found ( ' Ann. Chem. Pharm. , ' vol. 100 , p. 297 ) in the ash of L. clavatum 27 per cent , and in the ash of L. complana-

