234 Messrs. H. S. Hele-Shaw and A. Hay .
in the Carrara marble .
In six other cases the structures bore certain analogies to those in the deformed rock but were of doubtful origin , while in the remaining twenty the structure was different .
The following is a summary of the results arrived at:\#151 ; 1 .
By submitting limestone or marble to differential pressures exceeding the elastic limit of the rock and under the conditions described in this paper , permanent deformation can be produced .
2 .
This deformation , when carried out at ordinary temperatures , is due in part to a cataclastic structure and in part to twinning and gliding movements in the individual crystals comprising the rock .
3 .
Both of these structures are seen in contorted limestones and marbles in nature .
4 .
When the deformation is carried out at 300 ' C. , or better at 400 ' C. , the cataclastic structure is not developed , and the whole movement is due to changes in the shape of the component calcite crystals by twinning and gliding .
5 .
This latter movement is identical with that produced in metals by squeezing or hammering , a movement which in metals , as a general rule , as in marble , is facilitated by increase of temperature .
6 .
There is therefore a flow of marble just as there is a flow of metals , under suitable conditions of pressure .
7 .
The movement is also identical with that seen in glacial ice , although in the latter case the movement may not be entirely of this character .
8 .
In these experiments the presence of water was not observed to exert any influence .
9 .
It is believed , from the results of other experiments now being carried out but not yet completed , that similar movements can , to a certain extent at least , be induced in granite and other harder crystalline rocks .
" Lines of Induction in a Magnetic Field .
" By H. S. Hele-Shaw , F.R.S. , and A. Hay , B.Sc. Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) When a viscous liquid flows in a thin layer between close parallel walls , the motion takes place along stream-lines identical with those of a perfect liquid .
The course of the stream-lines may be rendered evident by injecting into the clear liquid thin bands of coloured liquid .
If the thickness of the liquid layer be varied , then there will be a decrease of resistance to the flow wherever there is an increase of Lines of Induction in Magnetic Field .
235 thickness .
As a consequence , there will- be a convergence of the stream-lines on the area of greater thickness .
When experiments with liquid layers of variable thickness were first tried , a general resemblance was noticed between the stream-lines so obtained and the lines of induction due to the presence of a permeable substance in a uniform magnetic field .
The main object of the present paper was to investigate accurately whether complete correspondence between the two cases really existed , and , should correspondence be established , to apply the method to the solution of a number of two-dimensional magnetic problems .
The investigation thus involved\#151 ; ( 1 ) A mathematical treatment of the subject , by means of which plotted diagrams could be obtained for comparison with experimental results .
( 2 ) The construction of apparatus capable of giving exact results which could be photographed .
( 3 ) The investigation of the laws connecting the rate of flow with the thickness of film of the liquid used .
The theoretical case selected as a test case was that of an elongated elliptic cylinder placed with its major axis along the field , the permeability being assumed to be 100 .
The lines of induction for this case are shown in the accompanying diagram , and were calculated and plotted by the method explained in the paper .
Diagram .
If , for the moment , we assume that the liquid stream-lines are identical with lines of magnetic induction , then the following correspondence between the two cases holds :\#151 ; Mr. J. H. Jeans .
Liquid Flow .
{ a ) Pressure gradient .
( b ) Rate of flow per unit width of liquid layer .
( c ) Ratio of ( b ) to Magnetic Induction .
( a ) Magnetic intensity or force .
( ft ) Magnetic induction .
( y ) Permeability = ratio of ( fl ) to ( a ) .
From this it is evident that the permeability corresponding to a given ratio of thicknesses of the liquid layer is given by the ratio of the rates of flow , per unit width of layer , for the two thicknesses , assuming the same pressure gradient for both .
The connection between the rate of flow and the thickness for a given gradient of pressure was carefully investigated in a series of preliminary experiments , and it was found that the rate of flow varied as the cube of the thickness\#151 ; a result which was afterwards confirmed by a theoretical investigation .
The permeability in the magnetic problem is thus given by the ratio of the cubes of the two thicknesses .
A stream-line diagram corresponding to the theoretical diagram given above was next obtained , and on superposing the two it was found that their lines were practically coincident .
The soundness of the method as applied to two-dimensional problems in magnetic induction having been thus established , the authors proceeded to apply it to a number of special cases , many of which could not be successfully attacked by any other method .
The paper is accompanied by a large number of photographs , showing the results obtained .
Some of these are of importance from an electrical-engi** neering standpoint .
The method described is the only one hitherto known which enables us to determine the lines of induction in the substance of a solid magnetic body .
It is equally applicable to two-dimensional problems in magnetic induction , electrical flow , and heat conduction .
" The Distribution of Molecular Energy .
" By J. H. Jeans , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , and Isaac Newton Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J-Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 14 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
1 ( Abstract .
) This paper attempts to examine the well-known difficulties in con- j nection with the partition of energy in the molecules of a gas .
A definite dynamical system is first considered , an ideal gas in which the molecules are loaded spheres , that is , spheres of radius a , of which the centre of mass is at a small distance , r , from the geometrical , centre .
It \#166 ;

