377 1888 .
] Magnetic Qualities of Nickel .
as well as in that of bromine , the magnitudes of the minimum proportions of substance necessary to change the potential of magnesium-platinum , zinc-platinum , and cadmium-platinum couples , varied directly as the atomic weights of the positive metals .
The experiments also show that the degree of sensitiveness of the arrangement for detecting the minimum-point of change of potential depends largely upon the kind of galvanometer employed .
As a more sensitive galvanometer enables us to detect a change of potential caused by a much smaller proportion of material ; and as the proportion of substance capable of detection is smaller the greater the free chemical energy of each of the uniting bodies , it is probable that the electromotive force really begins to increase with the very smallest addition of the substance , and might be detected if our means of detection were sufficiently , sensitive or the free chemical energy was sufficiently strong .
VII .
" Magnetic Qualities of Nickel ( Supplementary Paper ) .
" .By J. A. Ewing , F.R.S. , Professor of Engineering in University College , Dundee .
Received June 14 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is a supplement to one with the same title by Professor Ewing and Mr. G. 0 .
Cowan , which was read at a recent meeting of the Society .
It describes experiments , conducted under the author 's direction by two of his students , Mr. W. Low and Mr. D. Low , on the effects of longitudinal compression on the magnetic permeability and retentiveness of nickel .
The results are exhibited by means of curves , showing the relation which was determined between the intensity of magnetisation of the metal and the magnetising force , when a nickel bar , reduced to approximate endlessness by a massive iron yoke which formed a magnetic connexion between its ends , was magnetised under more or less stress of longitudinal compression .
Corresponding curves show the relation of residual magnetism to magnetising force for various amounts of stress ; and others are drawn to show the relation of magnetic permeability to magnetic induction .
Initial values of the permeability , under very feeble magnetising forces , were also determined .
The experiments were concluded by an examination of the behaviour of nickel in magnetic fields of great strength .
Magnetising forces ranging from 3000 to 13,000 c.g.s. units were applied by p doing a short bobbin with a narrow neck made of nickel between the poles of a large electromagnet , and it was found that these produced a M theTatundio tanVntenSlty 'f magnetisation which is to be accepted

