1 .
" On Ozone .
" By E. J. Lows , Esq. , F.R.A.S. , F.L.S. Communicated by Sir J. F. W. HErSCHEL , Bart. Received March 16 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) This paper consists of two parts , viz. -1 .
On the precautions necessary in ozone observation , and on certain corrections requisite before the actual amount can be determinedo 2 .
The discovery of dry ozone powders as a substitute for the ordinary tests ; an investigation into the ozone paper tests of M. Schinbein and Dr. Moffat , the determination of a proper formula for the tests , with an account of various observations and experiments made on the subjecte PART I : At the last Meeting of the British Association I read a paper on the precautions and corrections requisite in order that a more perfect knowledge of ozone might be obtained .
These precautions comprise uniformity of observation , each observer using the same box and the same tests , suspended at the same height , and as nearly as possible placed under the same circumstances .
The corrections necessary are --lst , For the velocity of the air ; 2nd , for the height of the barometer ; 3rd , for temperature ; 4th , for the hygrometrical state of the air ; 5.th , for elevation above the ground .
1 .
Velocity of the Air.-The greater the speed the more ozone will be apparent , and this seems to be owing more to the increased velocity of the air than to a greater proportion of ozone .
2 .
Height of the Barometer.-It is found that during the last four years , With the barometer at 281 inches the amount of ozone was 5*7 , g.3 29 , , 9 , , 3.5 30 , , , ) , , 301 , 0*4 A law as regards ozone and pressure is clearly apparent ; but as the barometer falls for wind , the excess at low pressures is no doubt partly due to the increased velocity of the air .
There is more ozone with the wind between W.S.W. and S.S.E. than when between N.N.W. and E.N.E. , and the barometer is half an inch lower with S.W. winds than with N.E. winds .
3 .
Temperature.-Temperatures between 30 ?
and 40 ?
will give less ozone than when between 40 ?
and 50 ?
, and the latter less than when between 50 ?
and 60 ? .
The same holds good when the ozone box is artificially warmed .
This does not extend to very high temperatures , because the great dryness of hot weather is against the action of ozone on the tests .
4 .
2'oisture.-Increase of moisture up to a certain point is favourable to the colouring of the tests , beyond which it operates unfavourably ; for when the air is completely saturated with moisture , the effect of ozone is at its minimum .
5 .
Altitude.-The higher the test is hung the darker will be the colour obtained .
The difference is as 4 to 6 between 4 feet and 35 feet above the ground .
There are yet several other circumstances to be mentioned : I. Hour of the Day.-The difference between the ozone readings at night and in the daytime areIn June and July an excess at night of 01 In August and September , , 0'4 In October and November , , 05 In December and January , , 08 In February and March , , 07 In April and May , , 07 the average excess of the summer months being only one-half of that which occurs in winter , 2 .
Direction of the Wind.-There is most ozone with the wind between S. and S.W. , and least when between N. and N.E. 3 .
Protection of the test from light.-It is absolutely requisite that the test should be in a dark box ; and no box has been found to answer so well as that constructed by myself , and known as Cs Lowe 's Ozone box , " an account of which has been furnished to the Royal Society* and to the British Association .
This box , if freely exposed , and made to veer with the wind , so as always to present the opening to the direct current , is everything that could be desired .
The foregoing observations will be sufficient to show that precautions are requisite in these records , and that certain corrections are necessary before we can declare whether ozone is present in a certain fixed amount , or whether it changes from hour to hour .
These corrections have yet to be found out ; those for the height of the barometer and the force and direction of the wind will be considerable .
PART II .
The ozone tests heretofore used have appeared to me to be unsatisfactory , and , on close examination , I found them to be faulty in many respects .
The paper used had a glaze upon it , which prevented the solution from penetrating it ; substances , moreover , ha d been used in its manufacture which acted injuriously on the tests .
Again , the starch of commerce was found to be impure ; it is manufactured with lime , sulphuric acid , and chlorine , substances fatal to these tests .
The iodide of potassium was also impure ; and there has been a want of uniformity in the proportions of starch and iodide of potassium employed by different observers .
Having found out that the starch of commerce was impure , I procured a jar of wheat-starch in the wet state before any chemicals had been used .
This was steeped in distilled water , which was changed every two days until quite sweet to the taste , and , although by a long process , a chemically pure starch was thus obtained .
Sir John Herschel suggested trying other vegetable starches ; I therefore made starch from rice , potato , sago , and wheat .
I obtained chemically pure iodide of potassium from Mr. Squire of Oxford Street , who forwarded me two samples made expressly for these experiments , the one prepared with water , the other crystallized several times from alcohol .
On the recommendation of Dr. R. D. Thomson , 15 grains of prepared chalk have been added to each ounce of air-dried starch to prevent it from becoming sour from any moisture that might be contained in it ; subsequent observations have proved that this is absolutely requisite for uniformity of effect , as the intensity of action depends upon the amount of water contained in the starch , which is apparent from the following experiment : Tests made with air-dried starcha .
Without further drying became coloured in 5 minutes .
F3 .
After further drying by fire-heat for 1 minute became coloured in 7 minuteso y. After further drying by fire-heat for 3 minutes became coloured in 9 minutes .
B. After further drying by fire-heat for 10 minutes became coloured in 13 minutes .
e. After further drying by fire.heat for 30 minutes became coloured in 20 minutes .
r. With chalk added became coloured in 20 minutes .
With regard to the calico or paper used for the tests , both stained when impure .
However , Mr. Joseph Sidebotham of the Strine Works prepared for me some chemically pure calico , and I was also enabled to procure a very porous chemically pure paper , both of which answer perfectly .
Having succeeded with the-ozone slip tests , I tried as a first experiment a mixture of 10 parts of starch to 1 of iodide of potassium as a " dry-powder test ; " this , when well mixed in a mortar , was bottled ready for use .
A small portion was placed in the open air , and ten minutes ' exposure showed that powder tests were an undoubted success , being more sensitive than the test slips .
My next determination was what strength would colour quickest , and accordingly a number of strengths were prepared , varying in the proportions from 1 of iodide of potassium and 1 of starch up to I of iodide of potassium and 30 of starch , the starch used being made from wheat .
From these experiments it was found that the proportion of 1 of iodide of potassium to 5 of starch was invariably the darkest , the degree of darkness diminishing in either direction when other strengths were used ; thus 1 of iodide of potassium to 4 of starch , or 1 to 5 ?
, were neither so dark as with a strength of 1 to 5 .
On repeating these experiments with potato-starch , the proportion that coloured soonest was 1 to 2 } ; and this second series of experiments proved that with each starch a special formula is requisite .
My next experiments were with the view of ascertaining the effect of various acids and chemical substances on the ozone powder tests .
For this purpose I procured a number of cups for solutions , and small pill-boxes to hold the powder tests , and these were placed together under separate bell-glasses .
The result was that the following coloured the powder tests very rapidly:-Hydrochloric acid , nitric acid , nitrous acid , chloride of lime , phosphorus , iodine ( in scales ) iodine ( dissolved in alcohol ) , carbonate of iron on which sulphuric acid was poured , carbonate of iron on which glacial acetic acid was poured , limestone on which sulphuric acid was poured , limestone on which glacial acetic acid was poured , matches lighted under the bell-glasses .
The following did not colour the tests:-Sulphuric acid , glacial acetic acid , carbonate of lime , carbonate of iron , ammonia , matches not lighted .
The substances used in the manufacture of ordinary starch of commerce gave the following : Chloride of lime coloured the tests instantaneously .
Sulphuric acid did not colour the tests .
Lime did not colour the tests .
Lime and sulphuric acid mixed coloured the tests rapidly .
There are advantages in the powders over the ordinary tests .
They are more sensitive , and therefore more rapidly acted upon ; they retain their maximum colour , not afterwards fading , as with the tests of Schinbein and Moffat .
( However , my calico and porous-paper tests are not nearly so liable to fade , owing to the solution penetrating into the fabric used , instead of being merely a surface-covering .
) There is also a more important advantage still to be mentioned from the use of powders .
By the aid of powder tests we shall ascertain what colours the tests ; in the experiments it was found that a different colour was imparted to the powder , and that the colour penetrated deeper with some substances and acids than with others , so that differences of effect took place , from which the different materials used might be recognized .
Thus:1 .
Iodine , although coloured a brown-black , was merely a surface colouring , below the powder remained colourless .
2 .
Phosphorus , bluish black on the surface only , below almost colourless .
3 .
Chloride of lime , deep brown on the surface only , the powder below slightly yellow .
4 .
IHydrochloric acid , grey-pink on the surface only , the powder beneath orange .
5 .
Nitric acid , dark-red brown extending slightly into the powder , beneath that colourless .
6 .
Carbonate of iron with glacial acetic acid , yellowish brown to the thickness of cardboard , below that buff .
7 .
Limestone with sulphuric acid , pale brown to the thickness of cardboard , beneath .
slightly coloured .
8 .
Carbonate of iron with sulphuric acid , black to the depth of a quarter of an inch .
9 .
Nitrous acid , dark brown more than the eighth of an inch deep , beneath yellowish brown .
10 .
Nitric acid mixed with exposed ozone powder , blue-black to the sixth of an inch deep , below that reddish brown .
1 .
Nitric acid mixed with unexposed ozone powder , blue-black to the sixth of an inch deep , below that reddish brown .
These experiments may require some modification , yet they point out the fact that striking differences are apparent , differences which must open up a new method of investigating ozone .
Not only have the tests hitherto used been made without due regard to the pureness of the chemicals and fitness of the material used , but the paper box in which they have been kept is not sufficient for their perfect preservation ; a dark , dry , air-tight box is essential and this should not be opened in a room where there is iodine , chlorine , nitric acid , phosphorus , hydrochloric acid , or other chemicals likely to be injurious to the tests .
I am now manufacturing the tests , which will be distributed by Messrs. Negretti and Zambra , and I have constructed a proper box in which in future they will be sent .

