A paper was also read , entitled , " An Experimental Inquiry into the influence of Nitrogen on the Growth of Plants .
" By Robert Rigg , Esq. Communicated by the Rev. J. B. Read , M.A. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The author , after briefly alluding to a former paper laid before the Royal Society , describing the chemical changes which occur during the germination of seeds , and some of the decompositions of vege ?
table matter , proceeds , in the present paper , to trace a connexion between the phenomena exhibited during the growth of plants , and the direct agency of nitrogen .
The experiments by which the author supports his views are arranged in separate tables , so drawn out as to indicate not only the quantities of carbon , oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , and residual matter , in about 120 different vegetable substances , but also the quantity of nitrogen in each compound , when compared with 1000 parts by weight of carbon in the same substance .
The most important of these tables are those which ex ?
hibit the chemical constitution of the germs , cotyledons and rootlets of seeds ; the elements of the roots and trunks of trees , and the characters of the various parts of plants , especially of the leaves , at different periods of their growth .
From this extensive series , which is stated to form but a small portion of the experiments made by the author in this department of chemical research , it appears that ni ?
trogen and residual matter are invariably the most abundant in those parts of plants which perform the most important offices in vege ?
table physiology ; and hence the author is disposed to infer , that nitrogen ( being the element which more than any other is perma ?
nent in its character ) when coupled with residual matter , is the moving agent , acting under the living principle of the plant , and moulding into shape the other elements .
The method of ultimate analysis adopted by the author , enables him , as he conceives , to de ?
tect very minute errors , and therefore to speak with certainty as to the accuracy and value of every experiment .

