]\gt ; An Account of the Observations tecting K eenwich Otories made in 1903 .
By Major G. P. TGHAbI , .E .
( Communicated by Dr. R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received June Read Jume 7 , 1906 .
) S1 .
The observations , of which a brief account is here given , their origin in the decision of the overnment of India to resume the pendulum work which was brought to a close in .
Professor F. Director of the Central Bureau of the International Geodetic Association , to whose advice the India Office is much indebteci , reColulnended the use of a half-seconds pendulum equipment as yned by Colonel von Sternec This equipment was ordered the Geodetic Institute at Potsdanl , and the constants for the necessary pressure temperature corrections were determined there by Professol L. Haasemanln , under Professor Helmert 's direction .
A redetermination of these constants made at Kew , Helmert 's estion , and were obtained in close accordance with those found at The apparatus gives only deterlninations of it thus necessary to select a base station .
As Kew ha dbeen the base station of the older Indian pendulum obseryations it was seleeted , Dr. Glazebrook , Director of the National , having given permission and promised all neccssal'y assistance .
Meantime , a estio was made by the Astronomer Royal , and accepted by the Secretary of State for India , that the mity should be taken of crino the ] also at Greenwich , thus allowing of a fresh intercomp rison of at wich and New .
The apparatus was llade by , of Vienna , aftor Colonel von Sterneck 's design .
There are four unlS , ) ) , 139 , and 140 , having times of vibration which are vely nearly equal , and htly in of half a second .
The are of ) rass , ilded , provided with vate edges on which to vibrate .
Each carries a snnall mirror fastened to its head , just above the line of the ] stand is also of brass , in the form of a truncated cone .
Tt rests on foot screws , whi * The full account will be pl.inted in the l ) of the reat T Survey of India .
VOL. LXXVIII.\mdash ; A. pressure , but is protected from draughts by a cover .
The most essential remaining part of the apparatus is a flash box , containing a contrivance whereby a shutter under the control of a break-circuit clock allows a flash of light to pass through a slit at every beat or alternate beat .
This flash is reflected by the mirror on the half-seconds pendulum into a small telescope above the flash box .
The times when the flash passes the horizontal wire in the telescope 's field correspond to the coincidences of the half-seconds pendulum and the clock .
The coincidence interval , , is connected with the time of vibration , , of the half-seconds pendulum by the equation .
the present case we have approximately secs .
and sec. The amplitude of swing is observed by means of a scale on the front of the flash box , at a measured distance from the mirror on half-seconds pendulum .
The most convenient initial semi-arc is from 12 ' to 15 ' .
The clock belonging to the apparatus , , was constructed by Messrs. Strasser and Rohde , of Glashutte ; its pendulum , made by iefler , of Munich , is of invar .
Use was also made of the sidel.eal standard clock at Greenwich , and at Kew of the clock ison 8 .
Two break-circuit chronometers were also generously lent by Messrs. T. Mercer and Sons and Mr. .
Kullberg at a time when it was feared that would not be ready for .
The Mercer nometer was enlployed during two sets of vations at The equipment included thermometers by Messrs. retti and Zambra .
A barometer and hygrometer were lent by the National Physical Laboratory .
to of S2 .
Reduction to a vacuum was made by the formula where is the external barometric pressure , the pressure of aqueous vapour , any excess of pressure inside the case\mdash ; all in millimetres of mercury\mdash ; t the temperature centigrade , and a constant .
The values of 1905 .
] Observations connectinq Ken ) Greenwich .
243 for the four pendulums were very nearly equal ; the means obtained Potsdam and Kew were respectively and reduction to C. was made by the formula - , the mean found for at Potsdam and ICew being respectively and .
The Potsdam values of and were employed iu the reductions , but the substitution of the values would in no way modihed the conclusions as to the relative values of at Greenwich and Kew .
The reduction to an infinitely small arc\mdash ; in all cases a correction made by the formula , where denotes the time of vibration and the mean semi-arc .
The results were also reduced to an ideal " " pillar\ldquo ; by a method used by Kater and developed recently by Professor .
Schumann , of the Prussian Geodetic Institute .
Two pendulums in very nearly equal times are simultaneously suspended from the stand , their planes of vibration the same .
One is suddenly set with considerable amplitude , the other initially at rest .
Obseryations of the at which the second takes up an oscillation from the first supply the means of , the small virtual increase in the of the pendulum , which ponds to the elastic flexure of the stand and pillar it .
The correction thus obtained to the time of swing\mdash ; the stand being filmly clamped to ranite slab , cemented to a solid masonry pillar about 20 inches \mdash ; averaoed about second , the mean being nearly the same at Kew and Greenwich .
In the application of the temperature correction mentioned above it is tacitly assumed that the temperature recorded by the hermometer is that simultaneously possessed by the pendulum .
In reality , when the is at all rapid , the mean temperature of the penduluun la , behind that of thermometer , and a further correction may thus be necessary , which depends on the rate of change of temperature .
This " " lag\ldquo ; correction WflS not defermined directly for the apparatus in question , but was assumed to be second for a rate of change of 1o C. per hour , ) eing the result ) ined for an almost identical apparatus to the Prussian Geodelic Institute .
The mean values of the calculated corrections at Greenwich and in the final comparisons were respectively and second , temperature always ; the tions at , and enerally at Greenwich .
The relative ness of ) correction at Greenwich was due to the temperature being easier to control , the room larger than that at Kew , and htted with electric light instead of gas .
244 Major G. P. Lenox-Conyngham .
Pendulum bservatiovs cResults .
S3 .
The observations were made as follows , the tim.e of a coincidence being known very approximately in adyance .
Ten consecutive coincidences were ; then , after an interval corresponding to 50 coincidences , ten more consecutive coincidences were observed .
Ten values of a 60-coincidence interval were thus obtained and their mean taken .
After 1 hours the observations were repeated , and a second mean obtained .
Under normal conditions the mean of these two means should be but little influenced by arities in the rate the clock during the 24 hours .
The observations were usually made from 9 .
to 1 , and from 9 .
to 1 .
The rate of the clock or chrononleter llsed was derived from star observations at Greenwich .
When at , use was made of the Greenwich 10 .
and 1 P.lf .
time nals , any necessary corrections to these being supplied by the Astronomer At Kew the pendulums in the plane of the prime vertical\mdash ; in the North Room the platinum thermometer room ) of the small ] house to the west of the main building .
position was 100 feet 6 inches west of , 5 inches north of , and 6 feet 4 inches higher than that occupied by .
G. .
Putnam in 1900 , and by the Kater pendulums swung Mr. E. Constal ) in 1888 .
Its coordinates are N. Lat. , and W. Long. ; its height above mean sea feet .
At Greenwieh ) were in the plane of the meridian .
The station was the same as that occupied by Colonel von Sterneck , Mr. Putnam , Mr. Hollis , and others .
It is in the ecord Room , about 20 yards east of the prinle meridian .
Its coordinates are N. Lat , E. Long. ; its height above mean sea leve1155 feet .
S4 .
The first observations were made by Major .
G. Burrard , Mr. E. G. Constable , and Major G. P. Lellox-Conyngham at Kew from June 22 to June 25 , 1903 , using only the Morrison clock , the Strasser and Bohde clock not having arrived from Germany .
On the arrival of the latter clock , it was employed observations , first at Greenwich , then at Kew , between June 29 and July 9 .
The results , however , proved discordant on reduction and were rejected , the clock at the makers ' request being returned to them to be overhauled .
Major Burrard mtime had to embark for India , the final observations were Jnade by Mr. Constable and Major LenoxConyngham .
These consisted of observations at Kew from October 14 to October 16 and October 27 to October 31 , with intermediate observations at Greenwich from October 20 to October 24 .
During each 24 hours two bservations were made with each pendulum , ploying the clock , Obserr .
connecting Kew and a further two with either the Strasser and ohde clock or the Mercer cbronometer .
Taking the mean of the corrected times of swing from the four penduhums the final result At Greenwiclr sec. The probable errors in these times were secoud at at ICew .
The mean ence in the times of was seconds , and its probable second .
Ihe results for the difference in the time of from the vere as follows:\mdash ; Pendulum 137 138 139 140 Excess at Greenwich ) ) ) ) The reement between the different pendulums is thus remarkably good .
S5 .
For at the value cm .
has been accepted by Professor Helmert .
* This depends on the preliminary result of the deter1nination of at 1otsdam , If and be the times of swing at two stations where and ( / 0 are ) values of , then or here ( is small , Hence , as .
the yalue at Kew , and the in at Greenwich , we have at with a probable error of iprlrison orith S6 .
Helmert 's formula is where is the latitude , } ) sea level , the thickness surface strata of low density , the earth 's mean radius , the assumed mcan density , the actual density of surface strata , the earth 's mean density , correction .
* ' Bericht uber die relativen Messungen der lnit \ldquo ; ' Geodetic Conference of 1900 , ' p. 321 .
evidence as to the surface strata near the two observalories has led him to the following conclusions:\mdash ; imestone absent , stimated depth faeozoic floor ifeet.ated cctions ttandard vfeet oondon Cfeet , feet ftrata aaeozoic floor Aondon Chere afeet overage specific gravity 2 latitude , are as follows:\mdash ; the , final values are\mdash ; Kew Greenwich The observed values are thus , in both cases , htly in excess of the calculated , and the difference veen them is greater than the calculated difference .
S7 .
The following table enumerntes ] ences between / at Kew and as found in the present and in direct comparisons:\mdash ; Behaviour of Substances at their Critical .
247 It is satisfactory to note that the results obtained with the modern forms of apparatus well with ome another and do not differ greatly from theoretical value .
This the hope that henceforth the pendulum may prove as satisfactory in practice it has always been attractive in theory .
On the of bstances Critical By W. TRAVEBS , D.Sc .
, F.R. and ( Received June 13 , \mdash ; Read June 21 , 1906 .
) A work entitled " " Le Point Critique des Corps Purse \ldquo ; has recently been published by E. llathias , whose opinion on matters relating to the critical state must always carry .
In this he discusses at length the various theories which have been put forward to explain certain ties observed in the behaviour of substances , which were supposed to be pure , their Cl.itical temperatures .
These ulsrities are not accounted by the simpler theories of Andrews and Van der Waals .
He calls attention to the experiments of certain ators , which appear to that the currently-accepted values of the critical constants of many nnlon substances may be vitiated , either to the time allowed for the establishment of equilibrium between the coexisting pbases near the critical point being insufficient , or the temperature at which the dividing surface vanishes 1lot being independent of the elative masses of the two phases the temperature at which this takes place . .
to I. Traube , substances contain different inck of regates , which he calls \ldquo ; and molecules .
It follows that if equilibrium demands that there shall be a certain concentration of these olecn les in the vapour and liquid phases respectively , then unless dissociation and association take place instantaneously , there must elapse a tinle , following any change of condition , before equilibrium can be established between the two phases .
P. de Heen 's theory goes further , and , assuming existence of such complexes , suggests that it is possible that the concentration of them in the two phases is a function not only of the temperature , but also of the relative masses of the two phases , or , in other words , of the mean specific volume of the system umder investigation .
In this case a system

