]\gt ; On the of -cathodic By H. THIRKILL , .
( Cantab .
) , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , Poesearch Scholar , Clare College , Cambridge .
by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 20* 1909 , \mdash ; Read January 27 , 1910 .
) Introduction .
As early as 1858 , observed , when a tube in which an electric discharge is passing is placed a strong magnetic field , a band of light is seen , which has the cathode for its section , and for its direction the line of netic force passing through the cathode .
Until comparatively recently the usually accepted explanation of this was as follows : Under the influence of the magnetic field the cathode rays are bent into the form of a spiral or helix round the lines of magnetic force .
Now these primary cathode rays produce secondary rays by collisions with the molecules of the gas , and both the primary and secondary rays produce fluorescence in the gas .
The former alone would show the spiral nature of the path , the latter cause a decrease in the definition of the light , which ) appears as a band .
In the meantime , other physicists have observed the same phenomenon .
Attempts have been made to detect an electric on the rays , but without success .
This lack of charge and the necessity of a gnetic field for their production , have led Villard and , among others , to regard them as a new kind of rays , and name -cathodic rays ( Villard ) or magnetic rays ighi ) , has been to them to indicate their origin .
In a recent memoir , Righi has put forward hypothesis that these rays consist of neutral doublets : a negative corpuscle revolving round a positive ion .
This would explain their lack of , their behaviour in a magnetic field , and some other properties of the rays .
It was the aim of the author , at the of Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , to investigate the nature of these m-cathodic rays , and especially to see if they carry an electric The experiments described below seem to show that iagneto-cathodic rays consist of slowly moving negatively electrified particles .
Under the influence of the powerful magnetic field , these have been coiled up to form a very fine spiral along the lines of magnetic force passing through the cathode .
' Pogg .
Aun vol. 103 , p. 88 , 1858 .
The remaining part of this paper is descril ) under following heads:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Historical Note ; ( 2 ) Experiments with Magnetic Fields ; ( 3 ) carried by the Rays ; ( 4 ) Discussion of Results ; ( 5 ) Summary .
( 1 ) Historical .
It will be useful to give a short account of the previous work on this subject , in order to see what has led to the idea of a new kind of rays .
Reference has already been made to Plucker 's work .
Using a simple tube with an e]ectrode at each end , placed itudinally in a field , he 'observed a band of which assumed the form of a tube of nlagnebic force limited by the outline of the cathode .
Some years later Hittorf* continued these experiments .
As theory would lead us to expect , Hittorf found that if the magnetic field be uniform , the path of the cathode rays is a helix drawn on a circular , the axis of which coincides with the line of netic force passing the point of the cathode particle .
When the field is not unifol.m the path is still a helix , following approximately the of magnetic force .
These forms were observed by Hittorf , and , in addition , ] a tube of magnetic force as described by Plucker .
Broca and Birkeland , on the same lines , observed a sudden change in the character of the for a certain value of the variable magnetic field .
A band of light appeared the line of etic force passing th1ough the cathode , and this was accompanied reat fall in the potential rence between the terminals of the tube .
VillardS has described some inte ] esting experiments on the influence of a magnetic field on this part of an electric discharge .
He noticed that the distance the light extends into the tube increases with the netic field .
The latter appeared to be not only the source but also the motiye power of the rays , and the name -cathodic was to them .
Villard also attempted to discover if the rays carry any electric charge , and in his experiments he could detect none , he admits the possibility that this may be due to the conductivity of the gas through which they pass .
He further showed hat an electric field , acting at angles to the netic field , deflected the 1'ays at to the directions of both fields .
In Righi 's experiments a tube was placed in a netic field , the intensity 'Pogg .
Ann vol. 136 , p. 221 , 1869 .
'Comptes Rendus , ' p. 736 , 1898 .
' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 126 , p. 586 , 1898 .
S 'Le Radium , ' April , 1906 .
'Journal de Physique , ' vol. 7 , pp. 589\mdash ; 617 , August , 1908 .
of this luminosity was usually , though not always , sudden .
The extent of this light , as Villard observed , was affected by the magnetic field .
Further , he found that , while the potential difference between the electrodes was always affected when these rays appeared , the direction of the charge was not constant , there being sometimes an increase , at other times a decrease , in value .
Experimenting on the charge carried by the rays , he found that in the absence of the magnetic field , and for small values of the same , his electrometer indicated that an electric charge was the Faraday cylinder placed in the tube ; but when the magnetic rays as he calls them appeared , a charge could no longer be detected .
From this he concluded that the rays convey no charge .
Summing up , then , it may be said that the chief points indicating the appearance of a new kiud of rays ( 1 ) The discontinuous passage of one phenomenon into the other .
( 2 ) The rays only appear in a magnetic field , which also seems to be the motive power .
( 3 ) A change in the potential of accompanies the appearance of the rays though the vacuum is unaltered .
( 4 ) The rays do not appear to charge a Faraday cylinder when an electrometer is used .
( 5 ) They are deflected by an electric field in a direction at right angles to both the electric and magnetic fields .
These will be discussed in the latter portion of the paper .
( 2 ) on the Effect of Magnctic on an Electric Discharge .
It was thought that some light might be thrown on the nature of magnetocathodic rays by using a very fine beam of cathode rays and a magnetic field the intensity of which could be varied very gradually .
Apparatus.\mdash ; The apparatus used in the earlier experiments is shown in fig. .
The cathode and anode are at and A respectively .
In some experiments the cathode consisted of an aluminium wire , 1 to 2 mm. in diameter , in a glass tube , the end of the wire being flush with the end of the tube , fig. 1 .
Another form is shown in fig. le : the aluminium disc in this case varied from 3 to 6 mm. in diameter .
Both forms of cathode furnish a fairly fine beam of cathode rays when the pressure is low enough .
The anode was an aluminium wire placed in the side tube A near , so that there would be only a small electric force acting on the rays in ; such an electric force would oppose the formation and existence of the doublets which Righi supposes to exist .
The glass tube was about 4 cm .
in diameter and the end was closed by : : a plate of glass on which was fixed a willemite screen S. The cathode rays impinging on this screen give rise to a small patch of fluorescence which enables one to follow the movements of the rays .
was a mica diaphragm used in some experiments .
It was pierced centrally and excentrically , and the surface next the cathode was covered with willemite .
The tube connected the apparatus to a Topler pump , a McLeod gauge , and a bulb .
FIG. la .
FIG. .
FIG. lc .
The apparatus was placed between the poles of an electromagnet .
The latter was a large horse-shoe magnet .
The pole pieces were 6 cm .
square and their distance apart varied from 6 to 10 cm .
One pole piece was drilled to admit the tube C. The current flowing round the magnet could be varied by means of a wire resistance and a liquid resistance , the latter allowing very small and continuous variations in the current , and hence in the magnetic field .
The intensity of the field in the neighbourhood of the cathode reached a value of 1100 lines per square centimetre .
It may be mentioned that this is equal to the largest value used by ighi .
An induction coil was used to supply the electromotive force .
The ordinary discharge not being very steady , a small rectifier was put in the circuit .
sufficiently reduced , a fairly fine beam of cathode rays passes down the tube ; the positive colnmn occupies the side tube A. When the current in the magnet circuit is started and gradually increased , the cathode rays are bent into the form of a spiral , the diameter of which gradually diminishes as the strength of the magnetic field is increased .
The coiling of the rays could be observed directly , since the rays render the gas fluorescent ; or by observing the movements of the fluorescent patch on the willemite screen .
As the strength of the field was still further increased , the spiral gradually closed up until a band of was left , the direction of which was sensibly that of a tube of force having the cathode for section , There were in addicion other spirals of greater radius .
These represent either rays of diffel'ent velocity or different initial direction .
By introducing the screen , it was possible to have the bundle along the line of force and , in addition , a well marked spiral bundle passing through the second aperture .
When the cathode bundle was not so time , the effect of the netic field was to concentrate the along the line of force through the cathode .
In the absence of the field the tube was comparatively dark , but on on a strong field , the intensity of the light greatly increased , though its lateral extent decreased .
The effect appeared to be a gradual one and no discontinuity could be observed .
When the pressure was fairly high and the beam did not reach the extremity of the tube , the extent of the beam increased as the field was increased .
The from a coil is not very steady and is not unidirectional .
This difficulty can be obviated by using a valve of the Villard type , or by using a lime cathode .
A speck of lime when heated gives off an abundant supply of negative corpuscles , and when used as a cathode , the discharge is veIy steady and is unidirectional .
By this means it was also possible to obtain a very fine beam of cathode rays , the cathode being a very small speck of lime on a narrow piece of platinum foil .
The apparatus is shown in fig. 2 , where is the lime cathode .
The rest of the apparatus is the same as before .
The rays were coiled up by the magnetic field , but on account of the fineness of the beam , it was possible to observe the coiling much further ; even when the beam along the line of force had a diameter of the order of a millimetre , it was possible to observe the spiral nature of the beam .
With a *Since sealing wax was used in certain cases , the gas present would contain carbon monoxide .
number of tiny specks of lime , it was possible to exhibit the netic lines of force in the form of very close spirals .
Effcct of Ficld on the of \mdash ; As has been stated , the beam of li , follows the lines of netic force .
If a of soft iron is brought near , the beam is attracted .
The iron distorts the lines of force , the rays the new direction .
In a mannel ) oing up a magnet , attraction or repulsion can be produced at will .
Thus these bundles of rays act very much like those of Villald and of \mdash ; In these periments , the appenl'ance of the rays was always gradual .
an ordinary and a diffuse beam , the first effect of the field was to concentrate the rays live of force\mdash ; in this case parallel to the axis of the tnbe .
The luminosity in this way was greatly increased , but , in every case , by rradually i. the magnetic field , this increase of luminosity was observed to be tlal .
The concentration continued until a fairly fine beam was obtained the lines of magnetic force in which the spiral nature could no ) detected .
Using a fine beam of cathode rays from a lime , the coiling could be observed with greater ease , both directly and by observing the of phosphorescent light on the willemite .
At no time was there discontinuity , the the tube of force consisting of slow cathode in the form of a fine spiral .
In many , but not all , of Riglu 's experiments , a discontinuity was obsel Mr. H. Thirkill .
the magnetic rays appearing suddenly .
It will be shown sudden change in the character of the discharge can be explained on the assumption that the rays consist of cathode rays in spirals .
( 3 ) Charge carried by the Rays .
The experiments described above seem to show that rays acting like magneto-cathodic rays consist of slowly moving cathode rays which have been bent into spirals of very small step and radius .
Such being the case , the rays ought to carry an electric charge , and experiments were made to see if any charge could be detected .
The apparatus used for this purpose is shown in fig. 3 .
is the lime cathode , A the anode , is a Faraday FIG. 3 .
cylinder .
It consists of an inner insulated brass cylinder , surrounded by an outer earthed cylinder of the same material .
There was a small circular opening in , 1 mm. in diameter , and a slightly larger one in F. The insulated cylinder was connected to a Nalder galvanometer ( 1 mm. at 1 metre corresponding to ampere ) .
The use of a galvanometer instead of an electrometer has some In a discharge tube there are present ions of both signs ; these give rise to the conductivity of the gas .
A charged conductor placed in such gas will gradually lose its charge ; ions of sign opposite to that of the charge on the conductor will approach under the influence of the electrical field set up in the hbourhood .
If the cylinder in the experiment receives a charge while insulated , we have two processes at work : a charging up due to the ; 1909 .
] On the Nature of thodic R arrival of charged particles , and a discharge due to the conductivity of the gas .
An equilibrium will be reached when the rate of is equal to the rate of , and the greater the number of ions present the lower will be the limiting potential .
If there is a large number of ions present ; in other words , if the conductivity of the gas is very great , the limiting potential will soon be reached .
An electrometer was first used , connected to by wires enclosed in earthed metal tubes .
The front part of was covered with willemite , and the rays could be deflected into and out of the cylinder at will , by means of an external magnet .
It was not found possible to detect , with any certainty , a charging up of the cylinder .
It was thought that this might be due to the high conductivity of the gas as explained above ( the pressure was fairly high ) , and the Nalder galyanometer was substituted for the electrometer .
One terminal was connected to and the other to earth .
The cylinder now loses a portion of its charge through the galvanometer , and the current through the latter will be proportional to the potential of the former .
The conductivity of the gas is now not so important .
It was now found on deflecting the rays into the cylinder that the galvanometer gave a deflection a negative ' charge .
These rays then carry a negative electric charge , and therefore consist of slowly negatively charged particles which have been bent into the form of a very fine spiral by the magnet field .
It may be mentioned that the spectrum of the discharge was observed , but no trace of any new rays was found , the ordinary cathode-ray spectrum being obtained .
( 4 ) Discussion of Results .
The experiments described above seem to support the view that the magneto-cathodic rays consist of slowly negatively electrified particles which have been coiled into a fine spiral .
How can we explain the results of Villard and Righi on this hypothesis ?
Briefly summarised , these ( 1 ) The rays only exist the presence of a magnetic field .
( 2 ) In many cases , but not always , the appearance of the rays is sudden , and the distance they extend from the cathode incl.eases when the field is increased .
( 3 ) Simultaneously with this chance in the character of the discharge there arises a difficulty in detecting any on a Faraday cylinder placed in the tube ( an electrometer being used ) .
direction parallel to the field , the effect of the latter is to bend the rays into spirals round the lines of force , the diameters of the spirals diminishing as the strength of the field increases .
Ihere will , therefore , be a concentration of the rays along axis of the tube ; in other words , the current density along the axis will be increased .
Now Prof. Ihomson , many years ago , showed that the effect of such an increase is not to increase in the same proportion the number of luminous atoms .
An increase in current density is often accompanied by an abrupt in the osity , out of all proportion to the increase in current density .
The discharge may be luminous when the magnet is acting and non-luminous when it is off .
; It seems " " that discharge produces a cumulative effect on the molecules of the gas in its immediate neighbourhood , and that the luminosity of an atom need not be the result of a single collision between a corpuscle and the atom A similar effect can be produced by raising the temperature of the lime cathode and thereby increasing the supply of corpuscles .
woudd explain the discontinuity often observed .
decreases as we pass away from the cathode , then , under the above conditions ; it wo11ld be expected that the hmlinosity would cease at a certain distance from the cathode , lue to the declease in current density .
The eHect of an increase in magnetic field will be to increase the current If , as in 's experiments , the magnetic field be not uniform , but density at points removed from the cathode , and , therefore , the longitudinal extent of the luminosity will be increased .
has been found to be the case experimentally .
1909 .
] On the Nature of Magneto-cathodic Rays .
Again , luminosity is accompanied by ionisation , and a sudden increase in the former implies an abrupt increase in the latter .
Therefore , the appearance of luminosity will be accompanied by a sudden increase in the conductivity of the gas .
This is of importance in connection with experiments on the charge carried by the rays .
The potential of the Faraday cylinder will remain constant when the rate at which it reccives a charge is equal to the rate of leak of its charge .
The latter depends very on the conductivity of the .
If the conductivity be suddenly increased , the limiting potential will be suddenly lowered .
This was found to be the case in Righi 's experiments : he obseryed that when the increase in huninosity occurred he could no detect a on the rays .
The change in the potential of discharge does not appear to be very important .
Similar effects are produced by a transverse field , and as Almy* has shown , they can be produced without the aid of a by the outside of the tube in the hbourhood of the cathode with tinfoil connected with the cathode .
The deflection of the rays in an electric field has still to be considered .
An electrified particle ' in an electrostatic field is deflected in a direction parallel .
to the field ; but as Prof. Thomson has shown , if the particles have already been coiled up into a spiral by a magnetic field , then the effect of the electrostatic field is to deflect the axis of the spiral in a direction at angles to both fields .
The bundle of rays will therefore appear to be deflected in this direction .
The value of this deflection is iven by the relation where is the electric force and the force on the particle , and is the initial velocity of the ticle in a direction parallel to the magnetic force .
From this equation it can be seen that the rotation is directly proportional to the electric field and inversely proportional to the magnetic field , and a of accompanies a reversal of either the electric or netic field .
This is in agreement with 's results .
A similar agreeme1lt found for the order of the nitnde of the tion .
Substittlting the volGs per centimetre , auss , and cm .
per second , we have , which agrees Villard 's results .
JTag Rays ?
the ighi h shown that netic rays are produced when a , netic field on a tube Canal-strahlen .
The rance of these rays calt be explained as follows : 'Proc .
Caml ) .
Phil. Soc , p. 183 , 1901 .
VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 rays would be .
( 5 ) Sum The experiments described above that rays acting like magnetocathodic rays consist of slowly movino atively electrified particles which have been coiled into very fine spirals .
The charge carried by these particles can be detected by using a sensitive galvanometer .
On this hypothesis the results obtained by ighi and others can be explained .
The conditions in an electric dischargc tube are exceedingly complex ; the kinds of rays already distinguished are increasing in number and depend very much on the conditions of the experiment .
To prove the non-existence of kind of rays is , therefore , somewhat difficult , but it may be said that until further expel.imental evidence is forthcoluing it seems unnecessary to postulate in case that the rays fallowing ) lines of magnetic force are other than slowly rays .
In collclusion , I desire to appreciation of the kindly and constant inter which .
Sir J. J. homson has shown throughout the course of this work .
I have pleasure also in .
E. Evsrett for the assista1lce he gave me the early part of the work .

