148 Mr. J. R. V aizey .
On [ Dec. 20 , III .
" Preliminary Account of the Morphology of the Sporo-phyte of Splachnumluteum .
Die J\#171 ; R\#187 ; Vaizey , M.A. , of Peterhouse , Cambridge .
Communicated by Francis Darwin , F.R.S. Received December 3 , 1888 .
The investigations of Haberlandt , * published in the latter part of 1886 , together with the results of investigations of my own , which werethen just completed , and communicated to the Linnean Society !
early in 1887 , convinced me of the importance of obtaining further knowledge of the highest development to which the sporophyte of the mosses attains , as being likely to throw light indirectly on the phylogeny of the higher Cryptogams and Phanerogams .
Inquiring into the matter , I found that Splachn Splachnum rubrum , and some few other forms were the most likely to yield the best results ; I determined , therefore , to obtain material for investigating their morphology .
These forms being arctic or subarctic , I put myself in communication with Professor A.xel Blytt , of Christiania , to find out if he could either procure me material properly preserved for the purpose , or put me in the way of obtaining material if I went myself to Norway .
From my correspondence with Professor Blytt , I concluded that the only really practicable course was to go myself , and obtain my own material in the different stages in which I required it .
To carry but this project , I applied for , and was granted , assistance by the Royal Society .
I , therefore , now tender to the Society a brief outline of the first of my results .
I obtained after considerable search , in which I was fortunate in having the invaluable assistance of Professor Blytt and Dr. F. C. Kiaer , whose knowledge of the habitats of Norwegian mosses is notorious , a large quantity of Sp. luteum in many different stages of development ; of Sp. rubrum I only obtained one specimen ; but beyond the mere difference of colour there is little or no difference between the two species .
The material was obtained in the marshy land on the top of the watershed between the River Glommen and Lake Miosen , and on the south-eastern side of the Dovref jeld region .
In the sporophyte of Splachnum luteum we have a structure wiujt a remarkable similarity to an umbrella , the handle end of which is inserted in the tissues of the oophyte , and is known as the foot .
Th\#174 ; seta is much elongated , bearing the umbrella-like expansion , th\#174 ; apophysis , at the top just below the sporangium .
It is the structure * " Beitrage sir Anatomy und Physiologic der Iiaubmoose ; * Jahrb .
f\#174 ; Wissen .
Bot. , ' vol. 17 .
|l !
Vaizey : " On the Anatomy and Development of the Sporogonium of t \#174 ; Mosses .
" ' Linn. Soc. Journ. , Bot. , ' vol. 24 .
1888.1 Sporophyte of Splachnum luteum .
of the apophysis and certain of the organs of the sporophyte with which we are now concerned .
A transverse section through the vaginula , including the foot of the sporophyte , shows that the tissues of the oophyte in this part contain a considerable quantity of organic substance , and this is seen to be more particularly the case in the layers of cells next to the foot .
The foot itself is seen to consist of a cylindrical mass of parenchyma , with an external layer of epidermal cells of a somewhat columnar form , which contain a considerable quantity of protoplasm , and contain large distinct nuclei .
The protoplasm of these cells is found to be aggregated towards the peripheral surface , the nucleus being usually found in the mass of protoplasm next to the outer wall of the cell .
The large vacuoles of these cells are traversed by fine protoplasmic filaments .
These cells , as well as those of the cortical layer beneath the epidermis , contain a number of very small protoplasmic bodies , which are found congregated in large numbers round the nuclei of the cells , there being also some in other parts of the cell , both in the peripheral layer and in the fine protoplasmic filaments traversing the vacuole .
In the epidermal cells these bodies are particularly numerous , and are found principally in the aggregated mass of protoplasm on the outer side of the cells .
These bodies may , I think , be safely regarded as leucoplastids .
From their number and position , I am inclined to believe that they are concerned , in absorbing substances from the tissue of the oophyte for the nourishment of the sporophyte .
Ifo starch has been found in the foext .
In the centre of the foot there is a definite central strand consisting of two kinds of tissue , an outer phloem-like layer of cells containing protoplasm by means of which it is probable that organic substance travels , and an inner strand of very .
thin-walled cells without any protoplasmic contents* which conducts the water up the seta .
In the foot the protoplasm of the phloem-like cells is aggregated in each cell towards the periphery as in the epidermal cells , but there are no plastids present .
The strand of thin-walled empty cellsf I have been able to prove in other speoies of conveys the water absorbed by the foot up the seta into the tissues of the apophysis .
The seta has a distinct epidermis beneath which there is a layer of sclerotic supporting tissue , and then a layer of parenchyma , the two together forming the cortex .
In the centre is the central strand , which in the lower end of the seta has almost the same structure as that described for the central strand of the foot , from which it is distinguished by being larger and less distinctly delimited from the * Cf- Vaizey , loc , cit. The terms leptophloSm and leptoxylem have been used to indicate these tissues .
For fuller explanation , see paper referred to .
t Vaizey : " Note on the Transpiration of the Sporophore of the Musci .
" 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 1 .
150 On the Sporophyte of Splaehimm luteum .
[ Dec. 20 , cortex .
Higher up in the seta there is a large intercellular canal formed in the middle of the axile strand of thin-walled empty cells which extends for nearly its whole length .
This intercellular space is lysigenous in origin .
A similar passage or canal occurs in several other species .
" *sjM A longitudinal median section through the umbrella-shaped apophysis shows that the central strand here swells out into a large pear-shaped mass of cells , that in the mature sporophyte contain no protoplasm , and even in the younger states only a very small quantity with small , inconspicuous nuclei .
Chlorophyll bodies are absent except in the two outermost layers of cells , even in the youngest specimens observed , and even here there are only a very few .
The cells are all thin-walled , and cubical in shape , with no intercellular spaces between them .
In this tissue , which may be regarded as a kind of aqueous tissue , large masses of crystalline inorganic matter were frequently found .
Outside the aqueous tissue there is a quantity of parenchymatous tissue , with numbers of communicating intercellular spaces .
The cells all contain large numbers of chlorophyll bodies .
This tissue extends into the umbrella-shaped organ .
On the upper surface in the proximal region the cells are arranged close to one another , and sh w a distinct tendency to an elongation of their axes in a direction vertical to the surface , thus forming a palisade tissue similar to that in the tissues of the vascular plants.* This is rendered more striking by a comparison with the parenchyma of the lower surface in the same region , where the cells are much elongated in a direction parallel to the surface , and with very much larger intercellular spaces .
The distal region of the apophysis shows that the cells of both upper and lower surfaces have undergone a considerable lengthening in the direction parallel to the surfaces , but that the upper as compared with the lower has still a resemblance to palisade .
Stomata are found in considerable numbers in the epidermis of the upper surface , but there are none on the lower .
The epidermis consists of a very distinct layer of cells without chlorophyll , the outer walls of which are cuticularised , and have a distinct cuticle .
A large quantity of starch is formed in the cells of the apophysis by the chloroplasts , each chloroplast containing a number of separate starch grains .
When the apophysis is quite young , at this time being green , immediately on its beginning to become umbrellashaped , and before the spores ripen , the starch begins to be formed-At a later stage the starch disappears , the starch-forming plastids , * Haberlandt ( loo .
cit. ) also makes a comparison between the chlorophyll-containing tissue of the sporophyte of the Mosses and the palisade tissue of true leaves ; but in none of the forms which he investigated is this structure as striking a3 it U in S.luteum . . .
-\#166 ; 1888.J Protection against Infectious Diseases .
which before were large and well formed , degenerate into small and comparatively inconspicuous bodies , the starch apparently being used up in the formation of spores .
In all probability there is at this period a formation of xanthophyll , which would account for the yellow colour of the apophysis in the mature condition of the sporangium , and hence the name of the species .
That the apophysis performs the functions of a leaf , and is therefore analogous with the leaves of vascular plants , I think there can now be no doubt .
And as this structure is a development of the sporophyte , the possibility of its being also homologous either directly or indirectly suggests itself .
I am myself inclined to belieye that the two are homologous ; but to give a full discussion of that question would be beyond the scope of the present communication , IV .
" A Contribution to the Knowledge of Protection against Infectious Diseases .
" By Alfred Lingard , M.B. , M.S. Durli .
, Diplomate in Public Health , Cambridge .
Communicated by .
Dr. E. Klein , F.R.S. Received December 3 , 1888 .
It has long been known , and it is now a well-established fact , that various eruptive fevers and blood diseases from which the mother may suffer , can be communicated to the foetus in utero .
There is evidence fdso to prove that a disease may be transmitted to the foetus through a mother who is herself insusceptible to contagium , as in the case of a child having been born covered with small-pox eruption , the mother .
n8 Rnite free from it .
The following are the diseases upon which the most important observations have been made :\#151 ; Syphilis , smallpox , tuberculosis , anthrax , and relapsing fever .
In the three latter the organisms producing these diseases have been found in the body the foetus at birth , having passed through the placental vessels .
In the present paper I wish to contribute to the other side of the question , viz. , the relation existing between the foetus and its mother , ori in other words , the influence , if any , exerted by the foetus on the pother , when the foetus becomes the subject of an infectious disease con-^racted independently of the mother .
All the comments made from i 1 ii s^an\lt ; ^P'^nt have , with the exception of one , been in relation to f#th118 ' 'ne keing an instance communicated by Vidal , of a .
T backed at the time of conception with small-pox , the foetus at .months being covered , during the whole of which period the mother for^K116^ healthy- " With regard to syphilis , we are indebted to Colies Co .
e \#174 ; rst practical observation noted in 1837 , when he cited as a .
us tact , that he had never witnessed or even heard of an instance 1C l a child deriving the infection of syphilis from its parents , caused an ulceration in the breast of the mother .

