II .
" Researches on the Poison-apparatus in the Actiniade .
" By PHILIP HENRY GOSSE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The organs which have been termed " thread-cells , " " ( threadcapsules , " " urticating organs , " 1 " lasso-cells , " &amp;c. , I propose to call cnidce .
They are found in various tissues of the body , but are specially localized in two sets of organs , which I call craspeda and acontia .
The craspeda are gelatinous cords connected throughout their length with the free edges of the muscular septa .
The acontia are somewhat similar cords , but free throughout , except at their base , where they are inserted into the septa .
The cord-like appearance of these latter organs is , however , illusory , as each is a narrow ribbon with involute margins .
Both the craspeda and the acontia are composed of a clear plasmra , in which many cnidce are crowded .
The craspeda appear to be universally possessed by this tribe of animals , but the acontia are limited to a few genera , principally Sagartia and Adamsia .
They are ejected from the body of the animal , and are again withdrawn .
For the emission of these organs special orifices exist , which I term cinclides .
These are minute perforations of the muscular coats and the integument , bearing a resemblance in appearance to the spiracles of insects .
Being placed in the interseptal spaces , they have a perpendicular arrangement , but are not regularly disposed in any other respect .
They can be opened widely , or perfectly closed at the will of the animal ; and are well seen , under a low power of the microscope , when a Sagartia bellis or dianthus is much distended in a parallel-sided glass vessel , with a strong light behind it .
The width of these orifices varies from 3-0th to ~-th of an inch .
No ciliary current passes through them .
Under irritation the Sagartia forcibly and repeatedly contracts its body , forcing out the water which had distended its aquiferous canals and the general cavity of the body .
Much of the fluid finds vent at 'these foramina , carrying with it the free floating part of some or other of the numerous acontia , each through that cinclis which happens to lie nearest to it .
The frequency with which the acontia escape in a loop or bight , shows that the issue is the result of a merely mechanical action , viz. that of the escaping water .
The cnidce occur under four distinct forms .
1 .
Chambered cnidae ( Cnid~e cameratce ) .
This is the most widely distributed , and the most elaborately armed .
In Cyathina Smithii they occur of comparatively large size , and are therefore well suited for observation .
They are transparent , colourless vesicles , of a long , oval figure , -g-th of an inch in length , and l-oo th in diameter .
A fusiform chamber passes through the centre of the anterior moiety , merging at one extremity into the walls of the cnida , and at the other diminishing to a slender chord , which is irregularly coiled within the general cavity .
Under stimulus the cnidce suddenly expel their contents with great force .
In general the eye can scarcely follow the excessive rapidity with which the chamber and its twining thread are shot forth .
When fully expelled , the thread , which I distinguish by the term ecthorceum , is often thirty times as long as the cnida ; but in Sagartia generally , it frequently is not more than once and a half the length of the cnida .
In the ecthorceum from chambered cnidce the basal portion is distinctly swollen ; thence , becoming attenuated , it runs on as an excessively slender wire of equal diameter .
Around this basal part wind one or more spiral thickened bands , varying , in different species , as to their number , the number of volutions made by each , and the angle which the spiral forms with the axis .
The direction is from east to north .
The spiral armature I call the screw , or strebla .
There is no other form of armature than this .
These thickened spiral bands afford insertion to a series of fine setce , which I call pterygia .
These are from eight to twelve in a single volution , and they project in a diagonal direction from the ecthoracum , but often become reverted .
In some cases , perhaps in all , the strebla and the pterygia are continued beyond the swollen portion of the ecthooreum , even to the end of the attenuated part .
2 .
Tangled cnidme ( Cnide glomiferce ) .
This sort differs from the preceding chiefly in the uniform slenderness of the ecthoraeum , which lies coiled up more or less regularly in the cnida , without any chamber .
Corynactis viridis affords excellent examples for observation .
3 .
Spiral cnide ( C. cochleatce ) .
The walls of the tentacles , in a few species , contain very elongated fiusiform cnidre , which seem composed of a slender thread coiled up in a very close and regular spiral , bearing a resemblance to the shell of a Cerithium .
The ecthorceum is discharged reluctantly , and the wall of the cnida is very subtle .
4 .
Globate cnidae ( Cnidce globatce ) ?
These are globose vesicles found in the acontium of S. parasitica , which have some characters in common with the cnidce , but of whose real nature I am doubtful .
In the indubitable cnidce the emission of the ecthorceum is a process of eversion .
This is proved by many circumstances , such as the order in which the portions are evolved , the basal portion first ; as well as by direct observation , the terminal part of the ecthorceum being occasionally detected in running out through the centre of the portion already evolved .
The cnidce are filled with a fluid , which holds organic corpuscles in suspension , and these are seen driven rapidly through the ecthorceuzm in the process of eversion .
I conclude that in this fluid resides the expansile force , which , on the excitement of a suitable stimulus , distends and projects the tubular portion of the wall that has hitherto been inverted .
All of the four kinds of nidce enumerated have been at various times seen surrounded by a membranous investiture , which I distinguish as the peribola .
This coat must be ruptured before the cnida can emit the ecthorceumz .
Several experiments show that the ecthoireum has the power of penetrating the tissues of other creatures , and even of the Vertebrata .
In some of these experiments shavings of human cuticle , presented for an instant to the tentacles of B. crassicornis , and to the acontium of S. parasitica , were found on examination to be pierced through with numerous cnide .
Experiments with blue vegetable juices were instituted , with a view to test the acid or alkaline properties of the poisonous fluid supposed to be ejected on the discharge of the ecthoraeum ; but with no definite result .
The existence of such a poisonous fluid is inferred , however , with a degree of probability amounting to moral certainty , and that of such concentrated power as , under certain circumstances , to destroy life with great rapidity , even in vertebrate animals .
Admitting the existence of a venomous fluid , it is difficult to determine where it is lodged , and how it is injected .
I incline to the hypothesis , that the cavity of the ecthorceum in its primal inverted condition , while it yet remains coiled up in the cnida , is occupied with the poisonous fluid , and that it is poured out gradually , within the tissues of the victim , as the evolving tip of the wire penetrates farther and farther into the wound .
The paper is illustrated by figures of the organs described .

