XXVIII .
Description and Use of the Cabbage-bark Tree of Jamaica .
By William Wright , M. D. ; communicated by Richard Brocklesby , M. D. F. R. S. THE Cabbage-bark tree , or Worm-bark tree , grows in most parts of Jamaica , and particularly abounds in the low Savannahs of St. Mary and St. George .
It rises to a considerable height , but no great thickness , sending off branches towards the top of a straight , smooth trunk .
The leaves are , when young , of a light-green hue ; when full-grown , of a dark-green colour ; and before they drop , of a rusty appearance .
Read May 1 , 1777 .
The flower-spike is long and beautifully branched .
The flowers are numerous ; their calyces of a dark purple ; their petals of the colour of the pale-rose ; the nectaria must contain much honey , as thousands of bees , beetles of various kinds , butter-flies , and humming-birds , are continually feeding thereon .
The pericarpium is a green , hard fruit , of the size of the smaller plumb .
The skin is of the thickness of a crown-piece ; and tastes very austere .
The kernel is covered with a brown skin like that of other nuts ; it is very hard , and tastes astringent .
The wood is hard , and takes a good polish .
It is however fit only for rafters or other parts of small buildings ; but this tree is valued chiefly for its bark , which externally is of a grey colour , and the inside black and furrowed .
Fresh cabbage-bark tastes mucilaginous , sweet , and insipid .
Its smell , however , is rather disagreeable , and it retains it in the decoction ; hence by some called the bulge-water tree .
Mr. PETER DUGUID , formerly of this island , seems to have been the first that gave any account of the virtues of this bark , in the Edinburgh Essays , Physical and Literary , vol. II .
The experiments he promised have never yet appeared .
It is certain it has powerful effects , and its anthelmintic quality is established by the experience of several ages .
It is at present in general use here , and begins to be known in Europe .
No description having yet appeared , I have supplied that defect as far as my abilities in Botany reached .
It remains now to proceed to its exhibition , and the purposes it is meant to answer as a medicine .
Cabbage-bark may be given in different forms ; as in decoction , syrup , powder , and extract .
I have used them all , and shall speak of them separately .
The decoction .
Take fresh-dried or well-preserved cabbage-bark , one ounce .
Boil it in a quart of water , over a slow fire , till the water is of an amber colour , or rather of deep coloured Madeira wine ; strain it off , sweeten it with sugar , and let it be used immediately , as it does not keep many days .
Syrup of Cabbage-bark .
To any quantity of the above decoction add a double portion of sugar , and make a syrup .
This will retain its virtues for years .
The extract of cabbage-bark is made by evaporating the strong decoction in balneo mariae to the proper consistence ; it must be continually stirred , as otherwise the resinous part rises to the top , and on this probably its efficacy depends .
The powder of well-dried bark is easily made , and looks like jallap , though not of equal specific gravity .
This bark , like most other powerful anthelmintics , has a narcotic effect ; and on this account it is always proper to begin with small doses , which may be gradually increased till a nausea is excited , when the dose for that patient is ascertained .
But by frequent use we can in common determine the dose , though we chuse to err rather on the safe side .
A strong healthy grown person may , at first , take four table spoonfuls of the decoction or syrup , three grains of the extract , or thirty grains of the powder for a dose .
A youth , three table spoonfuls of the decoction or syrup , two grains of extract , or twenty grains of powder .
A person of ten years of age , two table spoonfuls of the decoction or syrup , one grain and a half of extract , or fifteen grains of the powder .
Children of two or three years old , a table spoonful of the decoction or syrup , one grain of extract , or ten grains of the powder .
Children of a year old , half the quantity .
These may be increased , as above observed , till a nausea is excited , which will depend on the strength , sex , and habit of body of the patient .
Care must be taken that cold water be not drank during the operation of this medicine , as it is in this case apt to occasion sickness , vomiting , fever , and delirium .
When this happens , or when an over large dose has been given , the stomach must be washed with warm water : the patient must speedily be purged with Castor-oil and use plenty of lime-juice beverage for common drink ; vegetable acid being a powerful antidote in this case , as well as in an over dose of opium .
The decoction is what is mostly given here , and seldom fails to perform every thing that can be expected from an anthelmintic medicine , by destroying worms in the intestines , and bringing them away in great quantities .
By frequent use , however , these animals become familiarised , liarized , and we find it necessary to intermit it , or have recourse to others of inferior merit .
The writers of the Edinburgh Medical Commentaries take notice , that the decoction of cabbage-bark always excites vomiting .
We find no such effect from it here , and may account for it by their receiving it in a mouldy state .
A syrup , therefore , is given there with better effect .
They observe also that it has a diuretic virtue , which we have not taken notice of here .
This bark purges pretty briskly , especially in powder , thirty or forty grains working as well as jallap by stool ; but in this way it does not seem to kill worms so well as in decoction .
Five grains of the extract made a strong man sick , and purged him several times ; but , by frequent use , he took ten grains to produce at length the same effect .
It must not be concealed that fatal accidents have happened from the imprudent administration of this bark , chiefly from over-dosing the medicine .
But this cannot detract from the merit of the cabbage-bark , since the best medicines , when abused , become deleterious ; and even our best aliments , in too great quantity , prove destructive .
Upon the whole , the cabbage-bark is a most valuable remedy , and I hope will become an addition to the materia medica .
GEOFFRAEAJAMAICENCISINERMI S. FOL .
opposita , oblongo-ovata , ternata , acuminata , superne glabra , inferne enervia , petiolis brevibus .
CAL .
Perianthium monophyllum , campanulatum , levissime quinquepartitum , laciniis ovatis , brevibus .
COR .
papilionacea : Vexillum subrotundum , concavum : Alae obtusae , concavae , longitudine vexilli .
Carina ovata , patens , in duabus partibus levissime divisa .
STAM .
diadelpha , decem , filiformia , in calyce inserta , longitudine alarm .
Antherae subrotundae .
PISSED .
subulatum , filiforme .
Stigma nullum .
Germen ovato-oblongum , compressum .
PER .
Drupa sub-ovata , magna .
SEM .
Nux sub-ovata , sub-lignea , sulco utrinque longitudinali , bivalvis .
The botanical reader will see how nearly this agrees with the Geoffraea spinosa of LINNAEUS .
The Genera of plants are sufficiently multiplied , and it was thought best to make this a species only .
Philos : Trans : Vol. LXVII Tab : X.p. 512 .

