Photographic Investigation of Spectra of , Sc. 389 hen \#171 ; is small , sin 2a = tan 2a = \#187 ; R2 = v/ ( A2+\#171 ; 22B2 ) = A , approximately .
lece P \#151 ; v A +1 \#151 ; .
fti w2B/ fA is the coefficient of absorption of the solution , and is , -tortional to n2 , the number of molecules of the absorbent substance rent per unit volume .
Since it is essential that ( 19 ) should .
0388 a well-marked maximum value for a certain wave-length ( that if 3e light absorbed ) , additional evidence is obtained in support of ( introduction of a viscous term into the equations to the atomic rations .
ie equation for the square of the refractive index of a substance wh crystallized copper sulphate , which possesses marked selective hrption without exhibiting selective reflection to any extent , aht be represented by an equation of the form of ( 18 ) ; t2 , \amp ; c.r ic referring to the conditions of motion of a particular atom , the n ons of the remaining atoms giving rise to the terms involving ?
lic .
' Photographic Investigation of the Absorption Spectra of Chlorophyll and its Derivatives in the Violet and Ultraviolet Region of the Spectrum .
" By C. A. ScHtJNOK .
Communicated by Dr. E. SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received March 17 , \#151 ; Read March 24 , 1898 .
[ Plates 3 , 4 , 5 .
] s is well known from the investigations of Soret , * Gamgee , i " and Mrs , haemoglobin and its coloured derivatives show a characterise absorption band lying between the lines and M of the solar -"Hstrum .
The band has been shown to vary in position between " Tow limits ; in some derivatives it is nearer the red , and in others \lt ; *rer the violet , end of the spectrum , and is of all the blood absorp-lw bands the most stable .
he very near relationship that has been shown to exist by Schunck M MarchlewskiJ between phylloporpbyrin ( a chlorophyll denva-di ) and hcematoporphyrin ( a haemoglobin derivative ) , and the Markable resemblance of their absorption spectra\#151 ; one may almost * 'Arch , des Sciences Phys. et Not .
, ' vol. 61 , p. 322 ; vol. 66 , p. 429 .
+ 'Arch , des Sciences Phys. et Not .
, ' Dec. , 1895 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 233 .
rOL .
LXIJl .
390 Mr. C. A. Schunck .
A 1 say they are identical\#151 ; led Tschireh to the belief that there , also exist a like resemblance in the violet and ultra-violet re'i( r the spectrum .
Tschirch in his investigations* shows this tofb^ case , and finds a hand in phylloporphyrin ( termed by him pb|( ' purpuric acid ) in the same position as the band observed in h ?
r toporphyrin , and this corresponding to the characteristic which has been shown to exist in the blood colouring derivatives .
But further on I will show that this partita resemblance in these two derivatives is only partly correct hi band in the phylloporphyrin I examined being double , thefi occupying the same position as the single one of haematoporphyr Tschirch ( in the same memoir ) makes the further important^ covery that this band is not confined to phylloporphyrin alone , H* that it is distinctive of the chlorophyll derivatives generally , uc that it occupies ( in the derivatives he observed ) the same posiar ( varying between narrow limits ) as that shown to exist in the b\#187 ; d derivatives , and , like the blood band , the new chlorophyll bd shows much greater stability than any of the other bandsac matter what chemical changes the derivatives have undergone^\#174 ; The chlorophyll derivatives investigated by Tschirch are phy-purpnric acid ( impure phylloporphyrin ) , phyllocyanic acid ( phy-cyanin ) , and its zinc , copper , and iron compounds , in all of with he finds a single band corresponding in position with the bandn the haemoglobin derivatives , in the zinc and copper compouw shifted slightly towards the red end of the spectrum , and he sd finds it indicated in the living leaf , whilst in chrysophyll sli carotin he observes three bands situated between the solar lis F and H and in identical positions .
By the kind permission of } .
E. Schunck I have had access to his beautiful collection of chlo-phyll derivatives , and have been able to examine spectroscopicar in the pure state solutions of chrysophyll , carotin , chlorophyll , phy oxanthin , phyllocyanin and its zinc and copper compounds , allchlorophyll , phyllotaonin , ethyl-phyllotaonin , and phylloporphyiv and a specimen of haematoporphyriu kindly sent me by Dr. L , Marc lewski .
In all there appears a characteristic absorption betwe the solar lines F and M , which confirms the statement of Tschir that the chlorophyll derivatives , like the haemoglobin derivative give a very characteristic absorption in this region of the spectru : and considering the very near relationship which exists betwet phylloporphyrin and haematoporphyrin , is further evidence of t supposition that there exists something in common to both cblor phyll and haemoglobin , the two great colouring matters of biologic importance in the vegetable and animal kingdoms .
* ' Berichte der Deutschen Botanischen Gresellscliaft , ' vol. 14 , Part 2 , p- m i 1896 .
of the Absorption Spectra of Chlorophyll , 391 Vs I have been able to examine many more derivatives than the fmer investigator , and as the results of my observations differ f m his , inasmuch that I find only some of the derivatives are caracterised by the single band , whilst in others two are apparent , fil in chlorophyll itself and chrysophyll three , and also that my t thod of procedure differs from his , it will perhaps be of interest to ire the results of my experiments as compared with his .
Method of Procedure .
The spectroscope was a single prism one of Iceland spar , which jit divided the sodium lines .
The lenses were of quartz , the focal hgth of the collimator lens being 12*5 inches , and that of the cnera lens 42 inches .
The dark slide which held the plate was livable at fixed intervals , so that seven exposures could be taken on fe one plate .
The solutions were examined in a glass cell with ijrallel quartz faces , placed in front of the slit , the whole apparatus ling set up for me by Mr. A. Hilger , of London .
The source of Iht used was a Welsbach incandescent mantle of sixty-candle iwer , no chimney being used , placed 8 inches distant from the slit , ir reference lines a hydrogen vacuum tube was used , from which felines F , S ' , L , and H ' were obtained , and the violet potassium line 2 was at the same time thrown in by volatilising a little of the salt ; a Bunsen burner in front of the slit .
The plate used was Messrs. Vdett and Neal 's " lightning , " pyrosoda being adopted as the Eeveloper .
The exposure given in each case was half an hour , which \s found to be the most advantageous after various trials of different fees of exposure had been made .
Under these conditions the photo-ttphs extended distinctly as far as the solar line Q. On each plate spectrum of the source of light used was thrown in for a compari-with the light absorbed by the solutions of the different deriva-fees .
In every case the solutions had to be excessively diluted Fore the characteristic absorption became- apparent on the photo-tiphic plate , so dilute that , with the exception of chrysophyll , caro-i ) , and chlorophyll , only a faint indication of colour was visible in ife solutions to the eye by transmitted light , and of the bands in the ftible region of the spectrum , only the first , the characteristic one lithe red , was visible , and that in the majority of cases only faint .
I the case of the hydrochloric acid compounds of phylloporphyrin hsematoporphyrin one might say the solutions were colourless , fd yet these two derivatives give the single band more pronounced tel better defined than any of the others .
As a very slight differ-fce in the strength of the solutions gave an appreciable difference the resulting absorption spectra , three solutions of slightly varying lengths were photographed of each derivative , and the most charac- 392 Mr. C. A. Schunck .
A Photographic Investigation teristic of each were then selected and photographed together is depicted in the plates .
In no case on dilation were any furt ; r bands observable , and in all I find this particular distinctive absoo-tion situated between the lines F and L in chrysophyll , carotin , id chlorophyll , and in the other derivatives between the lines G andj the mean position of the bands being situated at the K/ 3 line , varyg sometimes slightly towards red and in others towards the viot .
The main difference in my procedure to that of Tschirch is tha I have made use of artificial light in the place of direct sunlight , y !
this means I have been able to reproduce the bands as regards tti definition and their relative intensity in a far more distinct manir , and though my photos , do not extend so far as his , mine gping tQ and his to S , yet as the characteristic absorption does not exted further than M this is not of great consequence .
Chlorophyll , Chrysophyll and Carotin .
The chlorophyll solution was prepared in the usual way .
Fra leaves were extracted with boiling alcohol , and the solution filter !
off from the fatty deposit which usually forms on standing .
Wh the solution is diluted so that in the normal chlorophyll spectrumt four bands only the characteristic one in the red is visible win received by the spectroscope , and a photograph is now taken , thB bands are found lying between the lines F and K/ 3 ( Plate 3 , fi .
1 and 2 ) .
The first two bands are the bands usually uumberi 5 and 6 of the normal chlorophyll spectrum , and can be seen i dilution by the eye when sunlight is used , and the first one , 5 , whi artificial light is used .
But the third band in the violet , having .\#187 ; centre situated about the line h , has not , I believe , been observl before .
In weaker solutions still , one only gets a general absorpti* in the ultra-violet , no further bands being discernible .
As is wl known , chlorophyll solutions prepared from the leaves of differs plants vary slightly in their absorption spectra , which deper8 upon the amount of acid present in the leaf .
In the spectrum the purest chlorophyll solutions , the fourth band situated about t* line E is extremely faint ; the purer the solution the fainter it but where the least trace of an acid is present this band appea darker than the third , situated between the lines D and E , and f the solutions standing becomes darker still , while the third beco\#174 ; fainter , and has moved further away from the red end .
If , ftjjh ; ever , a chlorophyll solution be exposed to the action of dlljfj'*-sunlight for a few hours until the colour has become brown , or ifj few drops of a strong acid , as hydrochloric , be added , and the solUfM .
be allowed to stand for a few days , a further change in the spectfPj .
takes place , by the formation of a fifth band situated between the lw of the Absorption Spectra of , fyc .
and F. According to the investigations of Schunck and March-wski , * these changes may be explained by the supposition that aylloxanthin is formed in the first case , and phyllocyanin in the cond .
These changes take place in a greater or less degree in ery chlorophyll solution on standing , according to the amount and rength of acid present originally .
I have found in all the various chlorophyll solutions I have tamined , even in those which from the commencement gave the iurth band darker than the third , and those in which the same mnge had taken place on standing , that no change had taken place i the violet , the only change being that more and more of the itra-violet rays are absorbed .
In the purest solution the total bscuration started at the line 1ST , while in others the total obscura-on commenced at the line H2 .
But in the case of a solution which ad been exposed to the action of direct sunlight and which showed lie fifth band , then the bands in the violet had disappeared alto-ether , leaving only a general absorption in the ultra-violet .
As ill be seen from Plate 5 ( figs. 2 and 3 ) , the second and third of oese violet bands are identical in position with the two bands found i phylloxanthin , while the first corresponds in position to a new xth band I have found to exist in the spectrum of phyllocyanin hen the solution is examined in a more concentrated form than sual , and which appears distinct but faint when photographed .
The chrysophyll was obtained by Schunck 's methodf and xamined in an alcoholic solution ; the carotin crystals were btained from the carrot root by the process of Arnaud , and was kewise examined in an alcoholic solution .
In each three very istinct characteristic bands were found , ^hich agrees with the tatement of Tschirch , but the bands from my photographs are not a identical positions , those in the carotin being slightly shifted owards the violet end .
Like Tschirch , I find that both these derivatives are very trans-iarent to the ultra-violet l'ays .
From Plate 3 ( figs. 2 and 3 ) it will be even that the three chrysophyll bands occupy intermediate positions 'Otnpared to the three chlorophyll bands , which seems to point to the upposition that chrysophyll does not exist in chlorophyll solutions \gt ; s such , but under certain conditions only is formed by decomposi-ion of a derivative , !
} !
and then crystallises out , or that if it does ixist in the solutions it must be in a very small quantity , otherwise he bands would overlap each other , and the result would be a total obscuration , which I have only found to be the case in a chlorophyll Solution exposed to the action of direct sunlight .
* * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 57 , p. 321 .
t ' Boy .
Soo .
Proc. , ' vol. 44 , p. 449 .
x Hausen , ' Die Farbstoffe des Chlorophylls , ' 1889 , p. 58 .
394 Mr. C. A. Schunck .
A Photographic Investigation Phylloxanthin , Phyllocyanin and its Compounds .
Phylloxanthin and phyllocyanin , the two leading chlorophy derivatives obtained by the action of hydrochloric acid ( Schunci " Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll " )* give in alcoholi solutions in the violet region of the spectrum , in the former case tv bands , and in the latter one ( Plate 5 , figs. 3 and 4 ) .
As has alread been pointed out , the two phylloxanthin bands are identical in pos : tion with the second and third of the chlorophyll ones in the viol\#174 ; the band in phyllocyanin being moved slightly towards the violc end , this band being situated between the lines h and H2 .
In hot cases the solutions have to be exceedingly dilute before the band become visible on the photographic plate , the only band remaininj visible to the eye in the visible part of the spectrum being the firs !
the characteristic one in the red , and that now only appears faini Prom the investigations of Schunck , f phyllocyanin plays the part c a weak base , and combines with strong acids , the compounds , how ever , being unstable and easily decomposed even by water , and , lik other bases , giving definite double compounds of great comparativi stability , into which metals and acids , especially organic acids , ente as constituents .
I have examined the compounds formed by dissolving phyllocyanu in anhydrous acetic acid , hydrochloric acid , and sulphuric acid , an\lt ; find a more pronounced band in each than even in the case of ai alcoholic solution of phyllocyanin , but in each compound the banc is shifted slightly towards the red end of the spectrum compared tc the band in phyllocyanin itself ( Plate 4 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 ) .
Of the compounds formed by phyllocyanin with metallic salts , the one with zinc carbonate in alcohol , with zinc acetate in acetic acid , and the one with cupric acetate in the same solvent were examined In each the characteristic absorption was noticeable in the same region of the spectrum .
In the zinc carbonate compound two very distinct bands were found corresponding very nearly in position with the two in phylloxanthin , the shifting being towards the violet end ( Plate 4 , figs. 5 and 6 ) , the zinc acetate compound , on the other hand , gave only one band , corresponding in position with the band of the anhydrous acetic acid compound of phyllocyanin ( Plate 4 , fig. 7 ) , whilst in the case of the cupric acetate compound two badly defined dark bands were apparent , the division between the bands corresponding about to the position of the phyllocyanin band ( Plate 4 , fig. 8 ) .
In both these series of compounds , as in the case of phylloxanthin and phyllocyanin , the solutions had to be very dilute before , the characteristic absorption became apparent on the photographic * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 39 , p. 348 ; vol. 50 , p. 306 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 39 , pp. 354 and 356 .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , Vol. 6j , of the Absorption Spectra of , Sfc .
395 ate .
Here the results of my experiments differ from those of schirch , who found but one band in the zinc and copper compounds , it the discrepancy may have arisen from the fact that he does \gt ; t state in his memoir what acid was in combination along with e metal with phyllocyanin .
That the zinc carbonate compound phyllocyanin should give two bands in the violet region corre-onding very nearly in position and relative intensity with the two phylloxanthin , and therefore , with the second and third violet lorophyll bands , is interesting from the fact that of all the lorophyll derivatives the spectrum of the phyllocyanin zinc carinate in the visible region corresponds more closely than any of e others with that of chlorophyll , and from the deductions arrived from this similarity by Schunck* as regards the functions of lorophyll as being a carrier of carbonic acid in the plant , just haemoglobin serves to convey oxygen in the animal economy .
ilkachlorophyll , Phyllotaonin , Ethyl-ph , In his " Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll " Schunck iS discovered that by the action of alkalis upon chlorophyll , the ove definite derivatives are produced in a crystalline form.f Ikachlorophyll , phyllotaonin , and ethyl-phyllotaonin all give the igle band in a pronounced and well-defined manner , corresponding ry nearly in position with the band in phyllocyanin , viz. , at out Kj3 , in phyllotaonin it being shifted slightly towards the olet , and in the other two a trifle towards the red end of the ectrnm ( Plate 5 , figs. 6 , 7 , and 8 ) .
Alkachlorophyll also forms definite crystallised sodium salt .
In an alcoholic solution the vtid appears considerably shifted towards the red , but a watery lution gives the band much obscured , in the same position as e one in the alcoholic solution of alkachlorophyll itself ( Plate 4 , ; s. 9 , 10 , and 11 ) .
Phylloporphyrin on the other hand gives a double band , intense and irly well defined , the less refrangible one having its centre situated i the K/ 3 line ( Plate 5 , fig. 9 ) .
Phylloporphyrin forms a compound ith acids , which has a spectrum in the visible region quite stinct from the very characteristic one of phylloporphyrin itself , hich consists of seven bands , while the acid compounds only iow three bands.* On examining the hydrochloric acid compound i the violet region , a corresponding change is also found in the tectrum , and instead of the double band , a single very intense * ' Annals of Botany/ vol. 3 , pp. 65\#151 ; 120 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 39 , p. 355 ; vol. 44 , pp. 449\#151 ; 454 ; vol. 50 , pp. .2\#151 ; 316 ; vol. 57 , pp. 316\#151 ; 319 .
X Schunck and Marclilewski , 4 Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' rol .
57 , p. 319 .
396 Messrs. R. W. Forsyth and R. J. Sowter .
one takes its place , situated between the other two ( Plate fig. 10 ) .
This band is the most pronounced and the best defiil one in the whole series , and only becomes visible on the phot-graphic plate in excessively dilute solutions , so dilute that cj might say the solution was colourless to the eye when viewed r transmitted light .
Phylloporphyrin and Hcematoporphyrin .
On comparing the spectra of phylloporphyrin and haema-porphyrin in this region , and also those of their hydrochlo'i acid compounds ( Plate 3 , figs. 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 ) , it was found tho hsematoporphyrin gave only a single band , but situated in the sai* position as the double one of phylloporphyrin .
On this point t ; results of my experiments differ from those of Tschirch , who , ; stated above , found in both a single band occupying the same positio In the hydrochloric compounds of hsematoporphyrin , however , single band of the same pronounced character as that in phyllopo phyrin was found , the one in heematoporphyrin , as will be seen fro the figures , being slightly shifted towards the red end of tl spectrum , which is interesting from the fact that just in the San way are the bands in the visible region of the spectrum of the two compounds shifted , this constituting their only spectroscop difference .
In conclusion , my thanks are due to Dr. E. Schunck and Dr. i Marchlewski for the valuable assistance they have given me \lt ; many details in connection with this investigation .
I hope in a further paper to investigate more particularly tl spectroscopic behaviour in the same region of the spectrum of tl yellow colouring matter accompanying chlorophyll in leaves are allied colouring matters obtainable from other sources than the lea for instance , carotin .
" On Photographic Evidence of the Objective Reality of Con bination Tones .
" By R. W. Forsyth , A.R.C.S. , and R. \#171 ; !
Sowter , A.R.C.S. Communicated by Professor RuCKEJ Sec. R.S. Received March 29 , \#151 ; Read May 5 , 1898 .
[ PlATES 6 , 7 .
] In the following paper we propose to describe a series of phoh graphs which prove the objective reality of difference and summatio tones .
The work was suggested to us by Professor Rucker , and wehav used the method of detecting these tones which has been described .\#174 ; Rucker and Edser in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for April , 18W

