2 .
" On a remarkable depression of the Barometer in November 1840 , agreeing very closely in its movements and results with that of December 1821 .
" By Luke Howard , Esq. , F.R.S. The object of the author in the present paper is to show the close correspondence of the extraordinary depression of the barometer in the months of October and November of last year ( 1840 ) , and of the remarkably stormy weather which prevailed at the same period , with similar phenomena occurring in December 1821 , when the moon 's place in declination underwent the same changes during those two periods , at an interval of nineteen years .
3 .
" General results of Meteorological Observations at Constantinople .
" By J. W. Redhouse , Esq. Communicated by John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. 4 .
" Term-Observations made at Prague in November and De ?
cember 1840 , and January 1841 .
" By C. Kreil .
Communicated by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. , Sec. R.S. March 18 , 1841 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Thomas Frankland Lewis , and Robert Masters Kerrison , M.D. , were balloted for , and severally elected into the Society .
The following Magnetical and Meteorological Observations , taken in conformity with the Report drawn up by the Committee of Phy ?
sics including Meteorology , for the guidance of the Antarctic Ex ?
pedition , as also for the various fixed Magnetic Observatories , have been communicated by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty , and by the Master-General of the Ordnance , viz. ยง 1 .
" Magnetic-term Observations , taken at Kerguelen 's Land , for May and June 1840 .
" By Capt. James Clark Ross , R.N. , F.R.S. , Commander of the Expedition .
2 .
" Hourly Magnetic Observations taken at Kerguelen 's Land , commencing May 25 , and ending June 27,1840 .
" By Capt. James Clark Ross , R.N. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. 3 .
" Meteorological Observations taken on board Her Majesty 's Ship Erebus , for October , November , and December 1839 , and from January to August 1840 .
" By Capt. James Clark Ross , R.N. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. 4 .
" Meteorological Observations taken on board Her Majesty 's Ship Terror , for November and December 1839 , and from January to July 1840 .
" By Capt. T. B. M. Crozier , R.N. 5 .
A paper was also in part read , entitled , " On the Localities affected by Hoar-frost , the peculiar currents of Air excited by it , and the Temperature during its occurrence at High and Low Stations .
" By James Farquharson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Minister of the Parish of Alford .

