" An Account of the desquamation and change of colour in a Negro of Upper Guinea , West Africa .
" By the Rev. Thomas S. Savage , M.D. , Corr. Member of the Boston Natural History Society , &amp;c. Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. The subject of ' this narrative , named Tahtoo Duari , is a member of the Grebo tribe , the aboriginal inhabitants of Cape Palmas and its vicinity .
His parents were members of the same tribe and natives of the same region .
The father was of a decidedly black complexion , while the mother was what is termed yellow , the two extremes observable in the tribe , and between which there is found every variety of shade .
In March 1844 , when about twenty-five years of age , Tahtoo was attacked with a quotidian ague , having previously been in perfect health .
The febrile symptoms subsided in the course of a week , but were followed by a general desquamation of the cuticle , leaving the subjacent skin of a dingy yellow hue .
A month afterwards , the same process , preceded by a similar febrile attack , recurred , and was followed by still greater whiteness of the newly-formed skin , resulting in the complete conversion of a negro to a white man , retaining the characteristic features and hair of an Ethiopian .
This change was accompanied with great sensibility in the skin to the heat of the sun and of fire , exposure to which readily excited irritation , and even inflammation ; but the general health soon became completely re-established .
In the course of three months , subsequently to this change , numerous spots of a chestnut-brown colour made their appearance , first on the wrists , then on the back of the arms , head and neck , and successively on the other parts of the body , forming by their extension dark patches of various sizes ; which , being scattered over the whole surifce , presented a singularly mottled appearance ; and as the black colour became predominant , the white portions of the skin seemed like patches of irregular shape formed in the natural negro skin .
With the colour of the skin , that of the hair , which had also become white , has been gradually restored to its former black hue .
During this process of return to the natural colour the health has been remarkably good .

