488 Influence of Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Bacteria .
to strengthen my position with regard to the truly palaeolithic character of the implements found in other parts of that vast continent , and I am tempted to bring for comparison some few specimens from South Africa .
One of these , found by Mr. J. C. Rickard at the junction of the Riet and Modder twenty years ago , is almost indistinguishable from those of the Lac Karar , as is also one from the valley of the Embabaan in Swaziland .
But the most remarkable is an implement of typically palaeolithic character found in 1873 under 9 feet of stratified beds at Process-fontein , Victoria West , by Mr. E. J. Dunn.* May the day be not long distant when researches for the implements of palaeolithic man may again be carried on , and trenches be dug in South Africa for peaceful instead of warlike purposes .
" Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Bacteria .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. , and Sydney Rowland , M.A. Communicated by Lord Lister , P.R.S. Received and read May 31 , 1900 .
In a previous communication we have shown that the temperature of liquid air has no appreciable effect upon the vitality of microorganisms , even when they were exposed to this temperature for one week ( about - 190 ' C.).f We have now been able to execute preliminary experiments projected in our last paper as to the effect of a temperature as low as that of liquid hydrogen on bacterial life .
As the approximate temperature of the air may be taken as 300 ' absolute , and liquid air as 80 ' absolute , hydrogen as 21 ' absolute , the ratio of these temperatures roughly is respectively as 15 : 4 : 1 .
In other words , then , the temperature of liquid hydrogen is about one-quarter that of liquid air , just as that of liquid air is about one-quarter of that of the average mean temperature .
In subjecting bacteria , therefore , to the temperature of liquid hydrogen , iv place them under conditions which , in severity of temperature , are as far removed from those of liquid air as are those of liquid air from that of the average summer temperature .
By the kindness of Professor Dewar , the specimens of bacteria were cooled in liquid hydrogen at the Royal Institution .
The following organisms were employed : Bac .
acidi lactici , B. B. diphtherial , Proteus vulgaris , B. anthracis , B. coli communis , Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus , Spirillum cholera } , B. phosphorescens , B. pyocyaneus , a Sarcina , and a yeast .
The above organisms in broth culture were sealed in thin glass tubes * See also a paper by M. E. T. Hamy in the ' Bulletin du Museum d'Histoire-Naturelle , ' 1899 , No. 6 , p. 270 .
t ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February 1 , 1900 ; ibid. , April 5 , 1900 .
Vapour-clensity of Bromine High Temperatures .
489 and introduced directly into liquid hydrogen contained in a vacuum jacketed vessel immersed in liquid air .
Under these conditions they were exposed to a temperature of about -252 ' C. ( 21 absolute ) for ten hours .
At the end of the experiment the tubes were opened , and the contents examined microscopically and by culture .
The results were entirely negative as regards any alteration in appearance or in vigour of growth of the micro-organisms .
It would appear , therefore , that an exposure of ten hours to a temperature of about \#151 ; 2o2 C. has no appreciable effect on the vitality of micro-organisms .
We hope to extend these observations upon the influence of the temperature of liquid hydrogen on vital phenomena , and to make them the subject of a future communication , and to discuss their bearing upon problems of vitality .
" Vapour-density of Bromine at High Temperatures .
Supplementary Note .
" By E. P. Perman , I).Sc .
, and G. A. S. Atkinson , B.Sc. Communicated ' by Professor Bamsay , F.K.S. Received April 28 , \#151 ; Bead May 31 , 1900 .
The authors regret that they had overlooked a monograph by C. Langer and V. Meyer , entitled " Pyrochemische Untersuchungen , containing an account of some experiments on the vapour-density of bromine .
Their method was to pass a mixture of bromine vapour and nitrogen into a porcelain tube with capillary ends placed in a furnace in a horizontal position .
The bromine and nitrogen were then displaced by a current of carbon dioxide , the bromine being absorbed by potassium iodide solution , and the carbon dioxide by potash solution , while the nitrogen was collected and measured .
Temperature was ascertained by displacing the tube full of air in a similar way .
By this method Langer and Meyer carried out experiments at " Zimmer-temperatur " 100 ' , 900 ' , and 1200 ' .
The only results comparable with the authors ' are those at 900 .
Their results at this temperature are 5*478 , 5*414 , 5*433 , 5*382 , 5*59 , mean 5*459 ( air = 1 ) , or 78*88 ( H = 1 ) .
They say that these results indicate that the vapour-density of bro , even when diluted with eleven times its volume of air , is still normal at 900 ' .
The mean of our results at this temperature is 78*6 , and the density read from the curve ( p. 17 , vol. 66 ) is 78*8 .
This close agreement shows that Langer and Meyer 's results really indicate a small amount of dissociation at 900 ' .
Diminution of pressure appears to have little effect at that temperature , as Langer and Meyer used bromine much diluted with nitrogen , while in our experiments there was no decrease of density on reducing the pressure from 767 mm. to 365 mm. It may be noted that Langer and Meyer give the boiling point of

