Letter from Captain Basil Hall , R.N. to Captain Kater , communicating the Details of Experiments made by him and Mr. Henry Foster , with an Invariable Pendulum , in London ; at the Galapagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean , near the Equator ; at San Blas de California on the N.W. Coast of Mexico ; and at Rio de Janeiro in Brazil .
With an Appendix , containing the Second Series of Experiments in London , on the Return .
Read April 24 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 211 .
] Captain Hall stated that the ship which he commanded had been constantly employed on a particular description of service , having no reference to such inquiries , but which occupied nearly all his time .
It was only , therefore , at casual intervals that he could make use of the means placed in his hands , and many interesting opportunities were thus lost merely for want of adequate leisure to profit by them .
The only stations , accordingly , at which the pendulum was swung in a satisfactory manner , were , lst , the Galapagos Islands in the Pacific , lying 32miles N. of the Equator ; 2ndly , St. Blas , on the N.W. shore of Mexico , in lat. 21-#I N. , and not far from California ; and , lastly , Rio de Janeiro , the capital of Brazil , in lat. 22 ` ?
55 ' S. The ellipticity of the earth , resulting from the experiments made at the Gallipagos , is - .
; but it must be observed that , as the nature of the ground on which the pendulum was here swung , was totally different from that of the stations at which it was swung in England , this result is not to be depended upon as giving a true expression for the ellipticity ; since whenever a comparison is to be made between different stations on which the same pendulum has been swung , the circumstances ought always to be as nearly alike as possible in all that relates to the density of the ground .
At the Galapagos , however , every thing was volcanic , and the islands were surrounded by a deep sea , whereas at the English stations the rocks were mostly primitive , and were surrounded by , land .
At the second station , San Bias , there were two series of experiments made , the first by Capt. Hall , which gave an ellipticity of,.-1 , and the second by Mr. Henry Foster , one of his officers , T. .
These two series , however , were performed under circumstances so different , as to account sufficiently for the want of exact agreement in the results .
During the first the temperature was steady , the sky always clear , and the rate of the clock 'uniform ; but before the second series was well commenced the rainy season set in with great violence , the sky became overcast , few stars could be seen , the temperature fluctuated , and the rate of the clock became unsteady .
The relative degree of credit , therefore , which attaches to the two series , is as 397 at 47 , the amount of the respective factors , or nearly as 8 to 1 , and we may assume the correct ellipticity at Js- .
, At Rio de Janeiro , by Captain Hall 's series , the ellipticity comes out s- , and by Mr. Foster 's -T3 .
The sum of the factors in this case being 148 and 304 , or nearly as 261 in favour of Mr. Foster 's experiments , the correct ellipticity may be taken at ; .T .
Captain Hall is of opinion that it would contribute materially to the determination of this question if the same pendulum were to be swung at places resembling the Galapagos , in geological character , such as the Canaries and Azores , Madeira , St. Helena , the Isle of France , and various islands in the Eastern Ocean ; besides swinging it at stations resembling those of Captain Kater in this country , especially at the Cape of Good Hope , and at a port in the Falkland Islands , which happen to lie in the correspondent latitude to that of London , and afterwards as a check on the adjacent main land of Patagonia .
Captain Hall announced his intention of instituting , in the mean time , some experiments for determining the actual effect on the vibrations of the pendulum , by changes of temperature , independently of any theoretical allowance .
The portion of Captain Hall 's letter , which was not adapted to public reading , consists of six series of observations at London , the Galapagos , San Blas , and Rio de Janeiro .
These are given in the fullest detail , together with every attendant circumstance likely to have any effect on the experiments .

