XVII .
N experments on some of the combinations ofphoshorus .
By Sir H. Davy , L.L.D. F. R. S. Vice Pres , R. L Read April 9 , 1818 .
IN a paper published in the Transactions of the Royal Society , for i181 , I have detailed a number of experiments on phosphorus , from which I deduced the composition of some of its compounds with oxygen , with hydrogen , and with chlorine .
Since the appearance of this paper , various researches have been brought forward on the same subject , in which some results , differing very much from each other , and from mine , are stated .
I ventured to conclude that the phosphoric acid contained double the quantity of oxygen to that in the phosphorous acid ; and that phosphoric acid contained about 3 of its weight of oxygen .
M. BERZELIUS considers the oxygen in phosphoric acid to be 128.17 , and M. DULONG , 14.5 , the phosphorus being 0oo .
M. DULONG and M. BERZELIUS suppose the quantity of oxygen in phosphorous acid to be to that in phosphoric acid as 3 to 5 .
The motive which immediately induced me to resume the enquiry respecting the phosphoric combinations , was M. DuLONG'S paper .
This ingenious chemist has not only endeavoured to establish new proportions in the known compounds of phosphorus , but has likewise attempted to prove the existence of two new acids of phosphorus ; and has denied several facts which I considered as sufficiently established .
The details which I have to lay before the Society in the C 316 3 +following pages , will serve to correct and fix , I hope , with tolerable accuracy , the proportional number or equivalent of phosphorus , and at the same time will show the truth of the general series of proportions that I assigned to its compounds .
In a case where my conclusions differ so materially from those of M. BERZELIUS and DULONG , it may be supposed that I have not adopted them without considerable caution ; and I have preferred my own results to theirs , only because they have been confirmed by minute and repeated experiments .
I was certain from various experiments , made both long ago and recently , and the results of which had been confirmed by Mr. BRAND , that the proportion of oxygen , which M. DULONG assigns to phosphoric acid , is considerably smaller than that denoted by the combustion of small quantities of phosphorus in oxygen gas .
I knew that minute portions of phosphuretted hydrogen were separated from phosphorus by voltaic electricity ; and it occurred to me as possible , that water might be formed in the combustion of phosphorus , and separated from the phosphoric acid when it entered into saline and metallic combinations .
To ascertain if this were the case , I passed phosphorus to saturation through red hot lime in a green glass tube connected with a mercurio-pneumatic apparatus : the combination took place with vivid ignition ; but no elastic fluid was produced .
A portion of the phosphuret of lime formed , was introduced into a tray of platinum , and heated in a glass retort filled with oxygen gas ; the phosphuret of lime burnt brilliantly , and became partly converted into phosphate of lime ; but on restoring the original temperature of the retort , there was no appearance of vaour or of moisture .
Having examined the phosphate of lime formed in this Si7 operation , and satisfied myself that it was the same as that formed by other methods , it became evident that there were no sources of error in the experiments on the combustion of phosphorus in oxygen gas , arising from the formation or separation of water ; and the only circumstance which could be urged against the accuracy of processes on this comb:ustion , was the small quantity of materials* on which they had been made .
The vividness and rapidity of the combustion of phosphorus , renders it impossible to burn considerable quantities of phosphorus in the common way in glass vessels .
Phosphuret of lime burns much more slowly and less intensely .
I endeavoured to ascertain the quantity of oxygen absorbed by a given weight of phosphorus converted into phosphuret of lime ; but the experiment did not succeed .
Though the phosphuret of lime was in fine powder and distributed over a large surface , yet the phosphate of lime which formed and fused on the exterior , defended the interior of the phosphuret from the action of the oxygen , and prevented its combustion .
After various unsuccessful trials to convert considerable quantities of phosphorus into phosphoric acid by combinations containing oxygen , I at last thought of a very simple mode of burning phosphorus , which answered perfectly .
Phosphorus requires a considerable heat for its volatilization .
By enclosing it in a small tube , so constructed that the phosphorus can burn in vapour only from the aperture of eA source of error might be suspected in carbon combined with phosphorus ; but I have been convinced by experiments made on the action of chlorine on the phosphorus I employed , that it contained no appreciable quantity of carbon .
I suspect that what is often taken for carburet of phosphorus , is in reality a red oxide .
the tube , large quantities of it may be burnt by the heat of a spirit lamp in a retort filled with oxygen , and the absorption of oxygen and the quantity of phosphoric acid formed may be minutely ascertained .
The accompanying sketch ( P1 .
XVIII .
) will give an idea of the apparatus .
The neck of the little curved tube , or small distilling retort , after the phosphorus is introduced , is drawn out , and an aperture left of about -i of an inch ; it should not be smaller , or it becomes choaked by the phosphoric acid formed .
Regulating the heat by raising or lowering the spirit lamp , the combustion may be carried on slowly , or rapidly , at pleasure .
Operating in this way , I have often burnt from 5 to lo grains of phosphorus without any accident , and ascertained exactly the quantity of oxygen absorbed : there is only one source of error-a quantity of phosphorus remains in the upper part of the tube , which cannot be burnt except by a greater heat than the retort will bear ; and it is difficult to ascertain the precise weight of this , as the tube always unites with some phosphoric acid where it is red hot at its mouth ; but this can be only a trifling source of error .
In these experiments , and in all the others detailed in this paper , I received much useful assistance from Mr. FARADAY of the Royal Institution ; and much of their value , if they shall be found to possess aly , will be owing to his accuracy and steadiness of manipulation .
EXPERIMENT I. Six grains of phosphorus .
The small tube with the phosphorus weighed before the combustion 56.5 grains ; after the 319 combustion 50.9 ; SO that it had increased -L ; and this increase was in great measure from phosphorus that had escaped combustion ; and when this was burnt out by a strong red heat , the increase of weight of the tube was under ; so that at least 5.9 of phosphorus had been converted into acid : 23.5 cubical inches of oxygen were absorbed : thermometer being at 46 ?
FAHRENHEIT ; barometer 29.6 inches .
EXPERIMENT II .
Ten grains of phosphorus .
The glass tube containing the phosphorus weighed lo3.1 grains ; after the experiment 95.6 ; but much phosphorus remained unconsumed .
After the tube had been heated to redness , it weighed 94 grains ; so that at least 8.4 grains of phosphorus were consumed in the first process .
The absorption of gas was 34 cubical inches .
Barometer 29.8 , thermometer 47 ? .
EXPERIMENT III .
Ten grains of phosphorus .
By weighing the tube after the experiment , and then distilling and burning the residual phosphorus , it was found that 9.1 grains of phosphorus had been burnt , which had absorbed 35.25 cubical inches of oxygen .
Barometer 29.7 , thermometer 49 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
I give these experiments as the most accurate I have made .
The pressure and temperature vary so little , that the corrections for them are of no importance .
Supposing that ioo cubical inches of oxygen ( the barometer being between 29.8 and 29.6 , and the thermometer between 46 ?
and 490 FAHRENHEIT ) weigh 33.9 grains , phosphoric acid will be composed , according to the first result , of lo0 phosphorus to 135 oxygen ; 32o according to the second , of ioo to 817.2 ; and according to the third , of oo to 131.3the mean will be too to 134.5 .
The light of the phosphorus burning in vapour in these experiments was excessively bright ; yet the top of the retort never became softened ; and the phosphoric acid , which increased the weight of the tube , principally combined with the glass at the aperture where it was red hot .
I cannot but consider this process of burning phosphorus in the gaseous state in a great excess of oxygen , as the most accurate mode that has yet been devised for ascertaining the composition of phosphoric acid .
In this instance no phosphorous acid , as I ascertained by direct trials , is formed from the vapour ; and no substances are concerned except those that actually combine .
M. DULONG'S method of ascertaining the composition of phosphoric acid , appears to me much too complicated to afford any results approaching to accuracy .
He first combines copper wire with phosphorus , by passing phosphorus over it by means of a stream of hydrogen gas ; he then dissolves his phosphuret of copper in nitric acid , and determines the quantity of phosphoric acid formed by precipitation : in all of which processes sources of error may exist .
M. BERZELIUS'S methods of ascertaining the composition of phosphoric acid , that of reviving gold from its oxide by means of phosphorus , and that of determining the quantities of phosphate and muriate of silver formed from perphosphorane , or the perchloride of phosphorus , appear to me still more exceptionable ; yet his results on the quantity of oxygen approach nearer to mine than those of M. DULONG .
The facts which I endeavoured to establish respecting chlorine , in a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1810 , show that the proportional or equivalent volume in which chlorine combines , is to that in which oxygen combines , as 2 to i ; and it follows , that 1o grains of phosphorus in forming the white sublimate , or perchloride , ought to combine with between 76 and 8o cubical inches of chlorine .
In experiments that I formerly made on this subject , by admitting chlorine to phosphorus in exhausted vessels , and ascertaining the absorption by introducing solution of chlorine , I overrated the absorption .
I did not at that time know , what I have since ascertained , that a solution of chlorine in water , apparently saturated with chlorine , by agitation with it in long narrow vessels , will still take up more , by exposure to a great surface of chlorine in larger vessels .
Under all circumstances , it is difficult to gain very precise results in experiments on the action of phosphorus on chlorine .
Mercury acts so rapidly upon chlorine , that it cannot be employed in experiments in which the absorption is to be determined .
When common water is used , some of the gas is absorbed by the water , and , the sublimate being a very volatile substance , its vapour always increases the volume of the residual gas .
Some aqueous vapour likewise , in experiments over water , enters with the gas , which forms a volatile hydrate , the effect of which is likewise to diminish the apparent absorption of chlorine , I have always found the absorption greatest , when I have operated in small retorts , connected by small stop-cocks with the vessel containing the chlorine , over water .
Making the proper corrections for the absorption by the water , the apparent absorption has been from 85 to 38 cubical inches for every 5 grains of phosphorus .
s22 M. DULONG'S two methods of ascertaining the quantity of chlorine in the sublimate , appear to me at least as objectionable as his process for determining the composition of phosphoric acid , and liable to great errors : the first from the uncertainty of the absolute quantity of chlorine admitted ; and the second , from the loss arising from the vapour of the sublimate , which must be carried off by the current of chlorine .
How great a deficiency may originate from the last circumstance , is shown by the following experiment : 5 grains of phosphorus were converted into sublimate by chlorine in great excess , the remaining chlorine was displaced by passing common air through the vessel for some time , till not the slightest smell of chlorine could be perceived ; the retort was then weighed , and a current of air passed through it .
Though this current could hardly have replaced the air contained in the retort , yet the loss of weight was 1.7 grains , and copious vapours were produced in the atmosphere .
In a second trial of the same kind , there was a greater loss of weight , and by barely exhausting the retort , and then again admitting air , there was a loss of Lof a grain .
When chlorine is made to act upon phosphorus over mercury not carefully dried , some muriatic acid gas is always formed ; but when the mercury has been recently boiled , no effect of this kind is produced , and the vapour in the gas , forms a minute quantity of a liquid hydrate of the perchloride which by more water , is converted into muriatic and phosphoric acids , as I proved by some very delicate experiments ; so that there is certainly no hydrogen denoted in phosphorus by the action of chlorine , and in their mutual action a mere binary compound of the two substances is formed .
After reflecting much upon the methods of combining chlorine and phosphorus , so as to gain correct results , it occurred to me , that in operating over water , and introducing a perfectly saturated solution of chlorine to absorb the vapour of the sublimate and of its hydrate formed from the water in the chlorine , I should gain a result nearly correct .
I made an experiment in this way on 4 grains of phosphorus , in a retort containing 13 cubical inches .
I ascertained the absorption , introduced into the retort a tube , containing about half a cubical inch of saturated solution of chlorine , and suffered the fluid slowly to act upon the sublimate , cooling the retort by immersion in water ; I then ascertained the degree of the second absorption , which was nearly a cubical inch and a half .
I likewise ascertained that water had its powers of dissolving chlorine diminished , and not increased , by uniting with phosphoric and muriatic acids , so that the apparent absorption must have been less than the real one .
Adding the second absorption to the first , and making the proper corrections , the quantity of chlorine uniting to 4 grains of phosphorus was 31.9 cubical inches ; barometer being 8o .
inches , and thermometer 46 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
Rather a larger proportion would be given , if the correction for the presence of vapour had been made for some of the other experiments : and the result agrees exactly with the mean deduced from the absorption of oxygen in the formation of phosphoric acid ; for , assuming that too cubical inches of chlorine weigh 76.5 grains , then the sublimate will consist of i of phosphorus to nearly 6 of chlorine ; and taking the composition of phosphoric acid from this datum , it would consist of loo of phosphorus and 1S5 of oxygen .
S24 To ascertain the composition of phosphorous acid , I used a new method , that of converting the perchloride of phosphorus , or perphosphorane by phosphorus , into the chloride which affords phosphorous acid by the action of water .
This is easily done by heating them together in a close retort ; and it enables us to determine with certainty , which opinion is correct , that assuming the oxygen in phosphorous acid to be 8 , or that which supposes it to be 2.5 , the oxygen in phosphoric acid being 5 .
5 grains of phosphorus were converted into perchloride in a small retort of the capacity of 6 cubical inches : it was necessary to exhaust this retort twice to remove the residual common air mixed with the chlorine , and some perchloride must have been lost during this process .
A small quantity of chlorine , which could have been little more than sufficient to compensate for the loss , remained in the retort .
5 grains of phosphorus were introduced , and the retort suffered to remain filled , principally with common air ; heat was very slowly applied ; all the phosphorus , except an atom not so big as the head of a small pin , disappeared , and a little of the sublimate still remained , when the retort burst from the expansion of the vapour of the new chloride formed ; but the chloride found on the fragments was pure , and held no phosphorus in solution .
A second experiment was made in a retort of the capacity of 11 cubical inches .
5 grains of phosphorus were converted into perchloride : the retort was twice completely exhausted , by which at least a grain and a half or two grains of perchloride must have been lost .
5 grains of phosphorus were introduced ; a little of the sublimate was lost by falling into the stop-cock of the retort ; yet the conversion of the phos .
phorus by heat into the liquor was almost complete ; there remained only a minute fragment .
In this experiment , however , the liquor held phosphorus in solution .
When this phosphorus was precipitated by water , and obtained with the fragment by sublimation in a small glass tube , it did not equal -I6 of a grain , and was no more than could be expected from the loss of the sublimate .
These two experiments prove distinctly that the oxygen in phosphorous acid is half that in phosphoric acid ; for if the proportion had been that which M. DULONG and M. BERZELIUS indicate , 1.67 grains of phosphorus , at least , ought to have remained after the action of the sublimate .
A collateral experiment was made .
32.7 grains of the fluid chloride , made by passing phosphorus through corrosive sublimate in great excess , were acted on by water , and precipitated by nitrate of silver ; the precipitate was immediately separated from the fluid , after it had been greatly diluted with distilled water .
Distilled water was then repeatedly passed through it , and it was dried and fused , when it weighed 98.4 grains ; which , allowing 24.5 per cent. of chlorine in horn silver , would give the composition of the fluid chloride as 24.1o8 of chlorine , and 8.592 of phosphorus , The comparative quantity of precipitate in this experiment was so much less than I had found in a former experiment , that , notwithstanding the care with which the process had bee conducted , I resolved to make some more experiments of the same kind .
In the first , in which the decomposition by water was made in a small bottle , from which no vapour could scape , and in which I superintended the weighing and drying S26 of the horn silver formed with the greatest care , 18.4 of the liquid chloride afforded only 54.5 of chloride of silver , which agrees as nearly as could be expected with the former experiment .
In two other experiments , made with equal care , and in which the liquid was poured into a solution of nitrate of silver , 6 grains gave 17.1 of horn silver , and 29.4 gave 89.9 of fused horn silver .
In examining minutely the circumstances of the action of the liquid chloride , or solutions containing phosphorous and muriatic acids , or nitrate of silver , I found no difficulty in explaining the cause of the error in the former experiments .
Phosphorous acid acts upon nitrate of silver , and more rapidly in proportion to its concentration , and gradually produces a copious precipitate from it ; so that if there be an excess of nitrate of silver , and the precipitate be not immediately separated from the solution , there is always a considerable increase of weight .
M. DULONG , and M. BERZELIUS , whose experiments agree with my former ones , may have been misled by a precipitation from the nitrate of silver by phosphorous acid , as I am sure I was .
M. BERZELIUS does not state how he prepared his liquid chloride of phosphorus ; but M. DULONG , who objects to my process by corrosive sublimate , and employs , instead of it , the action of chlorine on phosphorus in forming his fluid , must have been exposed to other sources of error , He speaks of acting on dry phosphorus by dry chlorine ; but it must be always extremely difficult to free a gas that cannot be kept over mercury , of all its vapour ; and as perchloride always forms during the action of phosphorus on chlorine , a part of which produces a fluid , and easily volatile hydrate with water , and soluble in 397 proportions in the liquid chloride , this process must be very liable to error .
I have never been able to form the perchloride , even from chlorine slowly passed through muriate of lime , without producing a small quantity of liquid hydrate of perchloride , which , when the solid perchloride was converted into liquid by more phosphorus , rose in vapour with it , and which , containing nearly a double quantity of chlorine , ( for the water forms a very small part of it ) occasions the precipitation of a much larger quantity of horn silver than the pure chloride formed from corrosive sublimate .
These various experiments on the combination of phosphorus with oxygen and chlorine , sufficiently agree with each other to afford the means of determining the proportion in which phosphorus combines with other bodies , or its equivalent number considered as an element .
If the absorption of oxygen be considered as offering the data , and phosphoric acid be supposed to consist of two proportions of oxygen , and one of phosphorus , the number representing the proportion in which phosphorus combines , will be 22.3 .
If phosphoric acid be considered as consisting of four proportions of oxygen , the proportional number or equivalent of phosphorus will be 44.6 .
If the absorption of chlorine in forming phosphorane be made the datum , the number will be the same , 29.9 , or the double 44.4 .
If the quantity of horn silver formed from the liquid chloride , taking the mean of all the experiments , be assumed as the datum , the number would be 23.5 , or the double 47 : the mean of all these proportions is 2.6 , or the double 45g .
; or taking away decimals , 45 .
In referring to the analyses which have been made of the different combinations of phosphoric acid , for the purpose of ascertaining if they correspond with this number , I found the data so uncertain and so discordant , that it was impossible to form any conclusions from them .
The phosphate of soda , as is well known , has alkaline properties ; yet , according to M. BERZELIUS , it contains but 17.67 of soda to 0o.33 of acid ; whereas it ought to contain , according to the proportion indicated by my experiments ( if neutral ) nearly an equal weight of soda .
M. BERZELIUS mentions several combinations of baryta and lime with phosphoric acid , of which only two approach to a correspondence with the number I have given for phosphorus ; that containing 45.5 of acid to 48.7 of lime ; and that containing 39.1 of acid to 60.8 of barytes .
New researches are required to explain the anomalies presented by the phosphates .
I shall give three experiments on the quantity of hydrate of potassa necessary for saturating given quantities of phosphoric acid made from given weights of phosphorus .
18 grains of phosphorus converted into phosphoric acid by combustion in oxygen , required for its saturation 47 grains of dry hydrate of potassa .
5.7 grains of phosphorus converted into acid , required 14.7 of hydrate of potassa .
5 grains of phosphorus converted into perchloride , demanded , to produce perfect neutralization , 68 grains of hydrate of potassa .
These three experiments agree so well with each other , and with the proportionate number gained from the absorption of chlorine and oxygen by phosphorus , that it is impossible not to put confidence in them .
329 If 13.1 be considered as the quantity of hydrate of potassa required to neutralize the phosphoric acid formed in the last experiment , and the 54.9 of hydrate remaining , be supposed to contain 43 grains of potassa , then the chlorine required to expel the oxygen from the potassa would be rather more than 40 cubical inches .
We owe to the ingenuity of M. DULONG the discovery of an acid , which he names the hypophosphorous acid , and which he supposes to contain half the quantity of oxygen in the phosphorous acid .
I have satisfied myself as to the correctness of his views respecting the existence of this acid , and the properties of its compounds ; but I cannot regard the method he has adopted for its analysis as entitled to confidence .
He takes a given quantity of hypophosphite of soda , acts upon this by chlorine , converts the excess of chlorine into muriatic acid , precipitates by nitrate of silver and earthy salts , and from the comparison of all these data , in which some substances of uncertain composition may be concerned , draws his conclusions .
I have found that the neutral hypophosphite of barytes , when acted on by heat in close vessels , is converted into acid phosphate of barytes , disengaging an elastic fluid , which is almost entirely the hydrophosphoric gas , or phosphuretted hydrogen saturated with phosphorus .
I say almost entirely , because in the beginning of the process , a little gas spontaneously inflammable is produced , and a minlute quantity of moisture appears : and when the heat is raised to redness , a very little phosphorus is pred iced , probably from the decomposition of a part of the phosphoric gas .
Now supposing the quantity of phosphoric acid in phosphate of baryta known , 330 and the quantity of phosphorus in phospluretted hydrogen known ; it is very easy , from an accurate experiment on the decomposition of the hypophosphite of baryta , to learn the composition of hypophosphorous acid .
I made two experiments on this subject ; in one , 5o grains of dry hypophosphite of barytes were used , and the distillation conducted in a small glass tube .
About $3.95 cubical inches of gas were produced .
The loss of weight of the apparatus could not be ascertained , as unluckily a little of the phosphate was lost ; a small portion of phosphorus was deposited in the upper part of the tube , from the decomposition of a minute quantity of the bi-phosphuretted gas ; but this could not have equalled the of a grain , as the tube only lost 4 by being heated to whiteness .
In the second experiment , 29 grains of the hypophosphite were used , and the loss of weight only ascertained , which was 3.5 grains .
To be able to form any opinion as to the composition of the hypophosphorous acid , it was necessary to ascertain the composition of the phosphate of baryta produced in these experiments ; which was easily done by precipitating a given quantity of the hypophosphite of barytes by sulphate of soda in solution .
15 grains of hypophosphite of barytes , in an experiment very carefully made , afforded 11.3 of sulphate of barytes .
Now , supposing this sulphate of barytes to contain 7.4 of baryta , the hypophosphite would consist of 7.4 of baryta , and 7.6 of hypophosphorous acid ; and i.il of the acid phosphate of baryta , formed from its decomposition , would contain 5.7 phosphoric acid , and 7.4 baryta .
And in the experiment in which g9 grains of hypophosphite of baryta were decomposed , supposing the whole loss of weight to be owing to perphosphuretted hydrogen given off , and this gas to be composed of 22.5 of phosphorus to 4 of hydrogen , or of 5.29 hydrogen to 29.76 phosphorus , and the 25.5 of acid phosphate remaining composed of 14.47 baryta nearly , and 11.o3 phosphoric acid , adding the 29.76 of phosphorus to the 4.79 in the phosphoric acid , and subtracting 89 , the quantity of oxygen required to form water with the 5.04 of hydrogen , the hypophosphorous acid maybe conceived to be composed of 7.69 phosphorus , and 2.54 , which denotes rather less than half the oxygen in phosphorous acid : i. e. as 7.43 to 1.5 , an approximation nearer than could have been expected .
Assuming the composition of the phosphuretted gas to be what is stated in the preceding page , which agrees very nearly with an experiment which I formerly made , the first experiment on the quantity of gas disengaged would give a proportion of oxygen rather less than that which has been just calculated upon ; but it must be remembered , that a certain quantity of common phosphuretted hydrogen is produced , which containing less hydrogen in a given volume , would sufficiently explain the difference of result .
M. DULONG has advanced an ingenious opinion , that the hypophosphorous acid may be considered as a triple compound of hydrogen , oxygen , and phosphorus .
There is another view which maybe taken of its composition , namely , that it may be a compoundof phosphoric acid and perphosphuretted hydrogen .
Phosphuretted hydrogen , as may be deduced from some experiments of M. DULONG , has the properties of a very weak alkali ; and when expelled from the neutral hypophosphites , they become acid .
This view agrees very well with the equi332 , valent , or proportional numbers , which represent phosphoric acid and phosphuretted hydrogen .
If it be adopted , the hypophosphites must be considered as triple compounds , analogous to the salts containing fixed alkali and earths , or ammonia and earths combined with acids .
M , DULONG imagines that the acid formed by the slow combustion of phosphorus in the air , and which I have supposed to be a mixture of phosphorus and phosphoric acids , is a peculiar acid , a chemical compound of phosphorous and phosphoric acids , which he names phosphatic acid .
I cannot say that his arguments give much probability to this opinion .
This substance has no crystalline form , no marked character which distinguishes it from a mere mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids ; and as far as my experiments have gone , it is far from uniformin its composition ; and phosphorous and phosphoric acids mixed together , produce a substance of exactly the same kind .
That a mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids should be produced by the slow combustion of phosphorus , is not surprising , when it is considered that this phenomenon is connected with different chemical processes , viz , the action of the vapour of phosphorus upon air , the action of solid phosphorus upon the elastic atmosphere , and upon the air dissolved in the moisture attracted by the acids formed ; and , unless vapour be present in the air , the process of the slow conversion of phosphorus into acids soon stops , I have mentioned in the paper to which I have referred , in the beginning of this communication , that the hydrophosphorous acid is decomposed by heat ; and that phosphoric acid , and perphosphuretted hydrogen are the results .
In examining the nature of the phosphoric acid formed , I find that 283 3843 it contains water , so that it is a hydrated phosphoric acid .
In carefully conducting the experiment , I find likewise , that a small proportion of water is given off with the perphosphuretted gas .
I shall give the results of an experiment : 17.5 grains of hydrophosphorous acid were decomposed by heat in a small glass retort carefully weighed ; 6.5 cubical inches of elastic fluid were generated , and the loss of the retort was 4 grains .
Now , if it be assumed that the hydrate of phosphoric acid * remaining equalled 18.5 grains , and that it contained , according to the law of definite prop ortions , 1.88 of water , and that the bi-phosphuretted gas weighed 1.937 , and consisted of i.6446 phosphorus , and.9984 hydrogen ; then the oxygen in the phosphorous acid will be to the phosphorus as 44 to 66 , which is as near a result as can be expected .
For 4 proportions of phosphorous acid are oo or the double 15o and o1 of water 170 or 85 which together amount to 470 or 935 which form 3 proportions of phosphoric acid 315 or 157.5 with 3 of water to form the hydrate 51 or ?
5.5 366 183.o 4 of water decomposed , of which the hydrogen is 8 , to form with 45 of phosphorus phosphuretted hydrogen 5 or ?
6.5 8 of water given off 5 or 25.5 making 74 or 235 .
I have no doubt that the acid which I used formerly was drier than the acid employed in this experiment , which will account for the difference of the result .
Supposing a hydrophosphorous acid could be procured , containing only the quantity of water sufficient to convert it into dry phosphoric acid , it would consist , as I have stated in my former paper on phosphorus , of four proportions of water , and four proportions of phosphorous acid .
I have adopted throughout the whole of these calculations , the supposition that the hydrogen in water is to the oxygen as 2 to 15 ; and consequently I have taken the number representing oxygen as 15 , which is extremely convenient , as the multiples are simple , 8o , 45 , 60 , &amp;c. Taking the proportion of phosphoric acid in phosphate of potassa , which may be deduced from the experiments , page 29g , it appears more convenient to represent the proportional number , or equivalent of phosphorus , by 45 , or 45.e , than by 22.5 , or 2e.6 , which gives facility in adopting either hypothesis of the composition of hypophosphorous acid .
If it be supposed a simple compound of oxygen and phosphorus , the series of proportions in the acids of phosphorus will be Hypophosphorous acid , Phosphorus 45 Oxygen 15 Phosphorous acid 45 Oxygen 30 Phosphoric acid 45 Oxygen 6o or hypophosphorousl Phosphoric acid 2 proportions i0o acid s63 J Phosphuretted hydrogen I prop. 53 I shall conclude this paper by a few incidental observations on the compounds of phosphorus .
M. DULONG states that no phosphorous acid is formed when phosphorus is burnt in excess of oxygen or atmospheric air ; 335 as , he says , I have asserted .
I cannot find that I have any where made such an assertion ; but notwithstanding what M. DULONG pretends , the assertion is true , as the foliowing experiment will prove .
Half a grain of phosphorus was set fire to in a retort containing 16 cubical inches of common air ; the acid products were washed with distilled water , and passed through a filter , and evaporated .
When the acid became nearly dry , small globules of phosphuretted hydrogen were disengaged from it , indicating the presence of phosphorous acid .
The experiment was repeated two or three times , care being taken to separate the red powder which has been considered as an oxide of phosphorus , and always with the same result .
Whenever phosphorus is inflamed , and suffered to become extinguished in oxygen gas in excess , unless the product is strongly heated after the spontaneous combustion is over , an acid , of which the hydrate produces phosphuretted hydrogen by heat , is always found in the products ; and this acid is probably produced by the action of the solid phosphorus on the phosphoric acid in contact with it .
This fact , and the circumstance , that much phosphorus acid is produced by the combustion of phosphorus in rare air , renders it almost certain that the phosphorous acid is a direct combination of phosphorus and oxygen , and destroys an idea which might otherwise be formed from the phenomena of the decomposition of its hydrate , namely , that it is a compound of three proportions of phosphoric acid , and one of phosphuretted hydrogen .
M. DULONG and M. BERZELIUS speak of freeing phosphoyane , or the liquid chloride of phosphorus , from phosphorus , 336 by distillation .
In experiments made in the laboratory of the Royal Institution , in which it has been twice carefully distilled at a low heat , it has still contained minute quantities of phosphorus .
It has been supposed that dry phosphoric acid is fixed at a white heat ; but I find that this is not the case : it rapidly rises in vapour at this temperature , and evaporates even at the point of fusion of flint glass : and the hydrate of phosphoric acid is susceptible of being volatilized at a much lower temperature .
In converting the solid sublimate composed of phosphorus and chlorine into the liquid compound , when the phosphorus is first fused in contact with the sublimate , a yellow crystalline mass is formed , which , when acted on by a higher degree of heat , affords the liquid chloride , which rises from it in vapour , and leaves phosphorus behind .
It is possible that this yellow solid is a compound of phosphorus and chlorine , containing half as much chlorine as the liquid .
Should this be proved to be the case by future experiments , it will give weight to the idea , that the hypophosphorous acid is a binary compound of oxygen and phosphorus .
837

