]\gt ; On Skeu Refraction through Iens , etc. On Skew Refraction through a Lens ; and on the Hollow Pencil given by an Annulus of a very Obliquely Placed Lens .By J. D. EVERETT , .
Received January 22 , \mdash ; Read .Tanuary 29 , 1903 .
eceived in revised form , Apri120 , 1903 .
[ PLATES 9 ] PART 1 .
The investigation here ibsd W undertaken with the view of explaining the curious curves obtained by receiving on a screen , tain distances , the hollow pencil which emerges from an annulus of lens placed at large obliquity ( such as or ) to the incident beam .
The first requisite is a process for calculating the direction-cosines of a refracted at a given surface , when those of the incident ray and of the normal are given , with the relative index of refraction .
In the al computations for this paper , method of procedure was , to deulate first the direction-cosines of the tangent to the refracting face in the plane of incidence .
A length unity along the refracted then projected on this tangent and on the normal ; these two rojecCions were themselves projected on the axes of -ordinates , added .
It has subsequently been fouud bstter , instead of actually culating the -cosines of the tangent , to eliminate them etween two sets of equations , one of is obtained by proiecting the refracted ray in the manner described , and the other by similar proiection of che incident ray .
3 .
A single case of special simplicity is selected for the application of the process ; the case of rrow and thin annulus of a plano-convex lens , with parallel pencil incident on its plane face , the index The annulus is supposed to be graduated , the division eing : the point furthest from the , and the graduations from ' to .
The ) ining the axis of the lens and of the incident pencil passes through the divisions and is the plam of the system .
For convenie1lce of tion , we shall suppose this plaYte to be vertical , the point hest point of the 4 .
Twelve points30o from , retaken on the a1mul points of incidence ; and the direction-cosines of the corresponding are calculated to or four places of decimals .
The S. P. Ihonpson , ( Experiments on Zonal Aberration 'Archives Nee ) Iandaiscs , 1901 , and Fonrth Traill Taylor Let tule , printed in the ' of Brit. Jonrn .
of Phot .
' for 1903 ; also Alice Everett , " " Photos .
of Scctions of Holloll Pcncils ' Jour .
Brit. Astron. Assoc vol. 13 , 1902 , pp. 74-75 .
VOL. LXXI .
2 Prof. J. D. Everett .
[ Jan. 22 , axis of the lens is taken as axis of the axis of being in and the of perpendicular to the plane of symmetry .
The equations of the twelve emergent rays thus found enable us to plot twelve points of the sec.tion made by a plane at any given distanoe ; and through these it curve can be drawn by haIld .
5 .
These sections are , however , inclined at about to the emergenli rays , and are about midway between the axes of and .
To remedy this inconvenience , the equations of the rays are transformed to axes ( of and ) , the axis of being midway between the axes of , and coinciding with the original direction of the incident beam .
Sections perpendicular to this direction are found by assigning different oonstant values to , and a " " direction-curve\ldquo ; is drawrl , which is it section of a cone whose generators are parallel to the emergent 6 .
Harmonic reduction is applied to the direction-cosines ; and harmonic expressions containing either two sines withouv es or two cosines without sines are found to give a rsmarkably olose representation of the facts .
7 .
Each ray of the emergent pencil intersects two other rays .
One set of intersections are in the plane of symmetry , and are ths intersections of rays symmetrically placed with respect to plane .
These intersections constitute the focal line , which is absolute]y straight , and lies in the produotion of the straight line drawn through the centre of curvature of the convex face of the annulus , to the rays in the glass .
These may be called ' ' left-and-right\ldquo ; intersections .
8 .
The other set of intersections constitute the line .
They may be described as " " up-and-down\ldquo ; intersections , inttsmuch as the plane of any pair of intersecting rays is at a small inclination to the vertical\mdash ; that is , to the plane of symmetry ; whereas the plane of a pair which intersect in the secondary line is perpendicular to the plane of symmetry .
Each intersection involves an inversion of relati ve position of the two rays concerned ; and the combined effect of the up-and-down\ldquo ; inversion at the primary line , and the subseque1lt ' ' left-and-right\ldquo ; inversion at the secondary , is to cause a distant section to be an inverted image of the annuIus : 9 .
In the " " up-and-down\ldquo ; intersections , the pairing of the rays follows an unsymmetrical law .
Each of the rays between and is paired with a ray between and fact which I discovered empirically in my original calculations .
The exact law of pairing has sinoe been detected by Professor A. E. H. Love .
It is , that the chord joining a pair passes through a fixed point , Iamely the point in which the plane of the annulus is cut by the secondary line .
See SS23 , 24 , 26 .
10 .
The first rays to intersect are those from and 180 ; and their intersection is the vertex of the primary focal line .
This liIle is approximately a parabola , lying in a plane which recedes a 1903 .
] On fraction ta Lens , etc. 511 downward slope of about 1 in 6 .
Each end of the primary line is the intersection of two uItimately coincident rays from near After a long interval , the intersections on the secondary line begin , the first ) eing the bection of rays from two points ultimately coincident at , and the last the intersection of rays uItimately coincident at 11 .
In the cross-sections , of which numerous specimens at gradually increasing distances are given in Plate 9 , every interseotion of two , or ( what is the same thing ) every intersection of a ray with one of the two focal lines , appears as a double point , which is generally point of crossing of two branr , , but is sometimes a ; and in oue instance the two double points coincide in a point of contact of two ranches .
For the purpose of identifying individual rays , the numbers , 30 , \amp ; c. , are marked , indioating the positions , in each section , of the rays which came from the points \amp ; c. , in the right hand half of the annuIus .
They facilitate the tracing of reversals of position .
12 .
It is by no general law for oblique refrtction annuli that he primary crossings are completed before the secondary begin .
MIore lally there is a large region in which the two ings overlap-a indicated by the presence of three doubIe points ' in a tion , the nuddle one of the three being the secondary and the two outer in the primary focal line .
13 .
of pe1lcils from annuli of obliquely placed lenses have been calculated by Steinheil* and by Finsterwalder , the obliquity , however , being only in Steinheil 's calculations , and not exceeding in Finsterwalder 's .
In both cases , the method of computation is that devised ) Seidel on spherical trigonometry ; and the calculations are ouly for the positions PART II .
JJefails .
14 .
for Skew Pefj Lct be the direction-oosines of the normal , those of the incident ray , then , ] the ngle of incidcnce , and the ngle of refraction we have Hence , knowing the index of refraction , we can de from * Munich , Akad .
Sitz .
Be ] vol. 19 ( 1889 ) .
, Akad .
Abhandl vol. 17 ( 1892 ) , p. 519 .
, Akad .
Sitz .
Ber 1866 , p. 263 .
Prof. J. I ) .
Everett .
[ Jan. 22 , Let denote the direction-cosines of the tangent to the refracting urface in the plane of incidenoe .
Then may be regarded as the proiections of a unit incident on the axes .
But this unit ray gives a proiection on the tangent , and a proiection on the normal .
Adding the proiections of these on the axes , we have . . . .
( 1 ) .
And in the same way , by proiecting a u1lit refracted ray , we have ( 2 ) , denoting the required direction-cosines of the refracted ray .
Substituting the values of from ( 1 ) , equations ( 2 ) become . .
( 3 ) standing for the relative index from the second medium to the first .
Equations equivalent to ( 3 ) are given in Herman 's ( ieometrical Optics , 19 ( Camb .
Univ. Press , 1900 ) and have , I understand , been taught for many years ) Mr. Cambridge .
15 .
In the original calculations for this paper , a clumsier method was used , in which were computed by means of determinants .
The original results have been tested , and in some instances made more exact , by the use of equations ( 3 ) .
*Sinco the tangent is coplanar with the uolmul and incident ray , have where Also , since it is perpendicular to the nolmal , we have Hcnce A , are proportional to doterminants and are the quotients of ] less by then found by substituting the numerical values of in equations ( 2 ) .
It can be shown , by expanding the detel.mlnants and making obvious reductions , that is , and that he results reduce to equations 3 ) .
1903 .
] On liens , 16 .
The rays incident on the first face , which is lane , are refracted into the lsns so as to mitke with the normal ( which is the axis of ) angle of .
The sine of this angle is its cosine .
The ectio -cosines of the rays incident on the Hecond or convex face of the lens therefore\mdash ; ; are the same all Our calculations relate to a narrow aunulus of the face , the axis of this ) the same that of the lens .
The adius of the mnulus will ) taken as the unit of length , and the entre of the Imulus as the of dinates .
The normals at all points inclined to the axis of , and we assume the sine of this iuclinatio to be ; in other words , the radius of curvature is tken as teIl times the radius of the annulus .
This makes the cosine the angle itself about Let denote the distanoe of any point of the annulus from the summit ( which is the farthest point from the source ) .
Thell the -ordinates of the point aro\mdash ; the dirsction-cosines of the normal at the aoe these we of incidence is is nown , and have all the for calculating the direction-cosines of the emergent ray by equations ( 3 ) .
The valnes thus found:\mdash ; * The lus of the lens ospollds to this of convex fac ' have any thicknoss : ) description is by supposing so mall as to be negligible .
Prof. J. D. Everett .
[ Jan. 22 , and the equations to an emergent ray are ( 4 ) .
When the sign of is reversed , the sign of I ' is reversed , and there is no change in or 17 .
For transforming to the axes of ( see S 5 ) , being in the direction of the original beam incident on the first face , the required formulae are\mdash ; , ' denoting the direction-cosines to the new axes .
We thus find , for the seven selected points\mdash ; and the equations of an emergent ray are reduced to ( 5 ) , where These give the values of and for a section at distance from the origin .
The curves in Plate 9 have been obtained in this way , twelve points being plotted and a smooth curve through them .
of Plate 9 .
( Se S 11 .
18 .
The sections are arranged in increasing order of the distance from the centre of the annulus .
The first consists of sections nearer than the primary focal line .
The first of them is at distance 4 ( radii of the annulus ) and is much flattened at the bottom owing to the large upward deviation of the lowest rays .
When we pass to the next section , at distance 6 , the lower side has become reentrant , and , as the distance increases , the lower side becomes more concave , the upper becoming at the same time less convex , till at they form sensibly parallel arcs .
At the middle has become the narrowest part .
The second row consists of sections the primary focal line .
1903 .
] On Sk through a liens , etc. It commences ( at distance ) with contact of the two branches , their common tangent also a tangent to the primary focal line .
The lower branch then passes through the upper , giving three areas points of self-cutting .
These two points then travel outwards , causing the two loops beyond them to become smaller , till , at distance , the loops have vanished and are replaced by cusps , at the ends of the primary focal line .
The third row consists of sections intermediate between the two focal lines , the cubps having changed to rounded off angles , and one of the sections ( at distance 11 ) being approximately an equilateral triangle with corners tlnded off .
The last of them , distance 13 , has a fairly sharp angle at the top .
The fourth consists of seven sections through the Qecondary live ( one at yreater distance .
The first has a cusp at the top , into a loop , ttnd then we have figmes of 8 , with the loop and the lower diminishing , till at distance the lower loop has been replaced by a cusp .
There is thus a ousp at each end of the secondary ( as well as of the primary ) focal line .
Vhen the are produced oxperimentally by receiving the pencil on card , it is possible to hold the card in a very oblique positio11 which the sides of the figure 8 unite , and give a single line resemblin ) image of slit .
This image is the line .
the line is passed , the area of the section increases pldly .
The form is at first that of an oval the bottom , shown in the last figure of the Plate ; but , as the distance increases , the two ends become nearly alike ; and at still greater distances , the half becomes broader blunter than the upper , as exemplified in the section at infinite distance which stands first in Plate 10 .
19 .
In the ures of Plate 9 , the zero point , through ray from the origin would pass , is indicated dot , ways lies below the centre of figure\mdash ; a consequence of the ting action of the lower tion of the annulus .
At tnces 6 the zero point coincides with the point and the point respectively , and at distances it lies outsid , .
This explains the observed fact that , when two concentric are employed , greatly in size , the curve due to th inner often lies outside due to the outer .
In dealing with the solid pencil by a very obliquely placed , it is clearly not ermissible to identify the bounding surface of the pencil with the surface constituted ) rays the ontermost zone .
20 .
The direction-cosines approximately simple-harmonic functions of th ngular c of the point of emergence .
The amplitude of the chief term ( of period ) is some fifteeu or twenty times , that of the next term ( of period ) hetl 516 Prof. J. D. Everett .
[ Jan. 22 , both these terms are included , the largest departures from agreement with the twelve data amount to about of the chief amplitude for and for and .
The harmonic expressions to which these remarks are from which are deduced Th maximum error for is about of the amplitude .
As regards , the largest departure from agreement is of the large constant term , and therefore does not materially tiect the values of and calculated from in accordamce with equations ( 5 ) .
21 .
By plotting the values of and as -ordinates , we obtain the lirechon-curve\mdash ; the large outer curve which stands first in Plate 10 .
It a section of the , that is of a cone having its vertex at the origin and its generators parallel to the emergent rays .
The large dot in the centre of the inner curve is the point in which the section is cut the axis of , and indicates the direction of no deviatio ? ? .
The plane of deviation for any ray passes through this point ; and the radius vector drawn from this point is proportional to the tangent of the tot , al deviation .
The direction-curve may be otherwise called the seciion at infinite distance , being the form to which the section tends as the distance is increased .
The small inner curve represents the annulus as projected on the plane of the section , the scale being half that of Plate 9 .
The seven selected points in the positive half of the annulus are marked with their values of ; and a comparison of these with the markings of on the outer curve shows the inversion which each ray undergoes , ) up-and-down and left-and-right .
Crossing of Rays in the ?
Focal Lille .
22 .
The rays from two symmetrically placed points meet in the plane of symmetry ; and the locus of these meetings is the joral line of the hollow pencil .
Five of them can be found by 1903 .
] Refraction through liens , in equations ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) of $ 16 , 17 , using the of or of , there given for , . . .
The two which correspond to the points can in like manner be found by applying equations ( 3 ) to values of indefi ] itely near to and respectively .
Near we thus )tain , for small , / -1 ; and near , for small , ' which , , give The two points thus detel'nlined are the ends of the focal line , and the other ve points when plotted arc to ) sensibly in the straight line joining these two .
The tangem of inclination of the line to the of , as computed from the co-ordinates of its ends , is Sections of the pencil through the secondary line , are iigure of 8 see row of Plate .
the crossing point of the 8 being the point in which the line mects the section .
At the ends of the line , one loop of the 8 vanishes is by a cusp .
The cnsps are shown separately with tenfold nification , in Plate 10 .
23 .
A simple application of descriptive geometry suffices to show that , in every case of refraction of homocentric pencil at a spherical surface , all the refracted pass a aight line , mely , the straight line which joins the point-source to the celltre of curvature of the ctin g. For , if be the point of incidence on this surface , PC is the normal , and SPC the of incidence .
The refracted lies in this plane , and efore meets the line SC .
In the case with which we dealing , is at infinity , SC is parallel to the rays within the lens .
24 .
Again , the plane SCP cuts the annulus in a second point the plane of incidence SCP ' is identical with SCP .
The refracted and lie in this planc , and their intersection is a point the primary focal line .
It is tercsting to compa } the of the rther P of the condnry line with the focal length of the annulus , which Prof. J. D. Everett .
[ Jan. 22 , 25 .
Applying these principles , we have Deviation at first refraction which is accordingly the downward slope of the rays in the glass .
The tangent of , is , which agrees with the value above deduced from the co-ordinates of the ends of the secondary line .
Again , the distance OC of the centre of curvature from the origin is ; and the condition that is collinear with the ends of the secondary line is the vanishing of the determinant . .
Expandin , we find that the positive terms amount to , and the to , a sufficiently close agreement .
26 .
Let A in the annexed figures be the point where aline through parallel to the rays in the lens meets the plane of the annuIus .
If we draw any straight line through , cutting the annulus in two points , the at these two points are in the same plane of incidence OD radius of cilcle .
AT a tangent .
OA in both figures .
APP ' any secant .
DC , giving CO CAPP ' , and will therefore meet ; the point in which they meet being in the primary focal line .
and coincide at the point of contact of a tangent from , and the ray from passes through one end of the primary focal line , its other end being symmetrically placed on the other side of the plane of symmetry .
We have OC , OA the angular position of is determined by , giving .
The rectangle AP .
, or the square of AT , is For any given value of we can , from these data , calculate .
The following pairs of points of emergence of secting are thus 1903 .
] On Skew Refraction through a Lens , etc. .
To trace the primary focal line , I have calculated , by formulae ( 3 ) , the equations of the rays ( in terms of ) at these thirteen points , plotted on a large scale the sections of the rays by planes of the smallest value of being , which corresponds to the intersection of the rays from and , the largest , which lesponds to , and the others being 5 Iome of these are reproduced in Plate 10 .
The co-ordinates of the points of self-cutting of the curves ( drawn carefully by hand through plotted points ) were adopted as the -ordinates of points of the primary line ; and the results are exhibited in Plate 10 in the shape of curves which are the proiections of the primary line on the co-or ( Jinate planes of .
These projections are on the same the curves in Plate 9 .
The scale of the intersecting curves is five times as large .
The on the plane of ( the plane of symmetry ) is very nearly a straight line .
The other two projectious show that the form of the line is approximately parabolic .
The of the chord joining its ends is , and the distance of this chord from the vertex , .
The tangent of the slope of the appro.-imate plane of curve is about \mdash ; ; and the ends of the ( whioh are its lowest points ) just above the plane of 28 .
A general view of the system as proiected on the plane of symmetl'y is given ( on one-fourth the scale of Plate 9 ) at the foot of Plate 10 .
The highest and lowest points of the annuIus are marked and 180 , and the rays incident at these two points are traced as as meeting with the secondary focal line .
is the centre of curvature of the convex face of the lens , the radius of curvatnre being ten times ths radius of the annnlus .
CA , meebing the of the annulus in , is parallel to the rays within the lens , its productio1t coincides with the secondary focal line .
in 29 .
very cross-sectio1l ough an end of focal line contains cusp , which is the transition from a small loop to a rounded-off angle in sections taken near it .
Three such sections , either of constant or of can be nalnely , one section through each end of the secondary , and single section through both ends of the primary .
30 .
The values of and for constant and of and for constant , vanish at a cusp , and are very small in the regio1t markings 21 , 43 , 69 , 100 , 136 , 79 , against the culves arc abbreviations Prof. J. D. Everett .
[ Jan. 22 , round it .
This property is of great assistance in locating the ends of the focal lines .
interpreted , it indicates close aggregation of rays , and consequent increase of luminous intensity , the of the two focal hnes .
31 .
To find at what distant from the plane of the annulus the values of ' for the ray at are stationary for changes of We have in general , for constant , erentiating the harmonic expressions ( S20 ) for , we see that the expressions for and contain only sines , consequently vanish at .
Hence vanishes identically at and reduces to oos which is to vanish .
gives , agreeing fairIy with the direc.t determination In like manner , for the ray at , the conditions reduce to ; to compare with the direct determination These cusps are Phown ( on ten times the scale of Plate at the top of Plate 10 .
32 .
In the case of the cusps at the ends of the primary line , hich are known to be on the rays from application of formulae to the values , shows that , for and to have the values approximately for all three , must be approximately 6 .
Iore exactly , the equations of the ray at are\mdash ; ; and those of the ray , The value gives , for both rays , TraIlsforming from and to and , we have 1903 .
] On Skevv Befrachon through Lens , etc. 521 The form of these cusps , for a section of constant , is exhil)ited near the centre of PIate 10 , on half the scale of the two of the econdary ( which are for sections of constant ) .
33 .
The ving examples illustrate the of the formulae:\mdash ; To find the points of the annulus at which the tioIt i$ xactly perpendicular to the plane of svmmetry\mdash ; We must put ) , giving 900 whence To find the points at which the horizontal must put , giving ( c ) For the total deviation to be a maximm or mininlum , be a minimtlm or maximum .
We thns obtain\mdash ; The factor vanishes at and 18 , at xima .
The factor vanishes ior , and the of minimum tion .
The points on the " " direotion curve\ldquo ; which corrsspond to these three determinations are indicated by the " " horizontal " " maximm : ' minimum on the right hand of the curve .
( d ) To find at distance the radius of curvature ) a crobh .ection becomes one of the } points the tion .
From ttions ( we deduce At and l80o , is finite , but vanishes ( ince d and contain only sines ) .
Hence the tangent is horir.ontal .
Th ( .ondition of an infinite radius of cnrvature is ; results which are trated by the sections for , and , in Plate 9 .
Everett .
Soc. Proc. : vol. 71 , Plafe 9 .
Everett . .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 71 , Plate 10 .

