Additional Remarks on the State in which Alcohol exists in fermented Liquors .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. F.R.S. Read December 17 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 82 .
] The question here discussed , is whether alcohol exists in fermented liquors ready formed as the result of fermentation , or is formed subsequently from them by the process of distillation .
The latter the author has imagined to be the commonly received opinion ; and in a preceding communication to the Society he endeavoured to refute it , by showing that the same quantity of alcohol was always obtained , whether the distillation was performed at a higher or lower temperature .
Since the conclusions which he then drew may be objected to on the ground that even the lowest temperature that he employed for distillation might be sufficient to give a new arrangement to the elements , and thereby form alcohol , he now employed a totally different process , in which distillation is altogether avoided .
Having observed that the unsuccessful attempts which had been made to separate alcohol from wines by subcarbonate of potash , and from which some persons had inferred its non-existence , appeared to fail in consequence of the union of the alkali with the colouring , extractive , and acid matters contained in the liquor , the author endeavoured , and has succeeded , in effecting a previous separation of these substances from wine , by means of subacetate of lead , or subnitrate of tin .
When these are added , a dense and copious precipitate is instantly formed ; and if the liquor be then filtered , it passes perfectly colourless , containing alcohol , water , and a portion of the acid of the metallic salt employed .
By adding to this liquor half its quantity of subcarbonate of potash , nearly the whole of the alcohol that was contained in the wine is separated .
In Port wine thus treated , the quantity of alcohol was found to be 22 per cent. , agreeing very nearly with former results by distillation .
To these inferences respecting the apparent proportion of alcohol in Port and in other wines , it has been objected , that they do not possess a power of intoxicating equal to such a mixture of alcohol and water .
Mr. Brande 's reply to this objection is , that it requires some time for a mixture of alcohol and water to become incorporated ; and that in this state of imperfect union it is warmer to the taste , and apparently more heating in its effects than when sufficient time has been allowed for their mutual penetration .

