1903 .
] Radiation in the Solar System .
u Radiation in the Solar System : its Effect on Temperature and its Pressure on Small Bodies .
" By J. IT .
Pointing , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics in the University of Birmingham .
Received June 16 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Part I.\#151 ; T We can calculate an upper limit to the temperatures of fully absorbing or " black " surfaces receiving their heat from the sun , and on certain assumptions we can find the temperatures of planetary surfaces , if we accept the fourth power law of radiation , since we know approximately the solar constant , that is , the rate of reception of heat from the sun , and the radiation constant , that is , the energy radiated at 1 ' abs .
by a fully radiating surface.* The effective temperature of space calculated from the very uncertain data at our command is of the order 10 ' abs .
Bodies in interplanetary space and at a much higher temperature may , therefore , be regarded as being practically in a zero temperature enclosure except in so far as they receive heat from the sun .
The first case considered is that of an ideal earth , more or less resembling the real earth , and it is shown that the temperature of its surface is , on the average , 325 ' , 302 ' , or 290 ' abs .
according as we take for the solar constant Angstrom 's value 4 cal./ min. , Langley 's value 3 cal./ min. or a value deduced from Rosetti 's work 2'5 cal./ min. The lowest value found , 290 ' abs .
, is very near the average temperature of the earth 's surface , which may be taken as 289 ' abs .
As the earth 's effective temperature must , if anything , be below this , and cannot differ much from that of the ideal planet , Rosetti 's value for the solar constant , 2*5 cal./ min. or 0-175 x 107 ergs/ sec. , is probably nearest to the true value and is therefore used in the following calculations .
The preceding calculations may be turned the other way .
It is shown that , on certain assumptions , the effective temperature of the sun is 21'5 times that of the ideal earth .
If we consider that the real earth with a temperature 289 ' abs .
sufficiently resembles the ideal , we get a solar temperature 2T5 x 289 = 6200 ' abs .
The upper limit to the temperature of the surface of the moon is determined and is shown to be 412 ' abs .
when no heat is conducted inwards .
But Langley finds that the actual temperature is not much * W. Wien ( ' Cong .
Int. de Physique , ' 1900 , vol. 2 , p. 30 ) lias pointed out that Stefan 's law enables us to calculate the temperatures of celestial bodies which receive their light from the sun , by equating the energy which they radiate to the energy which they receive from the sun , and remarks that the temperature of Neptune should be below \#151 ; 200 ' C. 266 Radiation in the , Solar System .
[ June 16 , above the freezing point on the average .
This leads us to the conclusion that it is not higher than four-fifths the highest possible value , the reduction being due to inward conduction .
The temperature of a small body , dimensions of the order of 1 cm .
or less , but still so large that it absorbs radiation , is shown to be nearly uniform , and at the distance of the earth from the sun about 300 ' abs .
Under otherwise similar conditions temperatures must vary inversely as the square root of the distance from the sun .
Thus Mars , if an earth-like planet , has a temperature nowhere above 253 ' abs .
, and if a moon-like planet , the upper limit to the temperature of the hottest part is about 270 ' .
Part II.\#151 ; Radiation Pressure .
The ratio of radiation pressure due to sunlight to solar gravitation increases , as is well known , as the receiving body diminishes in size .
But if the radiating body also diminishes in size this ratio increases .
It is shown that if two equal and fully radiating spheres of the temperature and density of the sun are radiating to each other in a zero enclosure , at a distance large compared with their radii , then the radiation push balances the gravitation pull when the radius of each is 335 metres .
If the temperature of twp equal bodies is 300 ' abs .
and their density 1 , the radius for a balance between the two forces is 19'62 cm .
If the density is that of the earth , 5'5 , the balance occurs with a radius 3'4 cm .
If the temperatures of the two are different , the radiation pressures are different and it is possible to imagine two bodies , which will both tend to move in the same direction , one chasing the other , under the combined action of radiation and gravitation .
The effect of Doppler 's principle will be to limit the velocity attained in such a chase .
The Doppler effect on a moving radiator is then examined and an expression is found for the increase in pressure on the front , and the decrease in pressure on the back of a radiating sphere of uniform temperature moving through a medium at rest .
It is proportional to the velocity at a given temperature .
The equation to the orbit of such a body moving round the sun is found , and it is shown that meteoric dust within the orbit of the earth will be swept into the sun in a time comparable with historical times , while bodies of the order of 1 cm .
radius will be drawn in in a time comparable with geological periods .

