Junction of Vagus with Superior Cervical Ganglion .
331 Note on the Experimental Junction of the Vagus Nerve with ihe Cells of the Superior Cervical Ganglion .
" By J. N. Langley , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received January 26 , \#151 ; Read February 3 , 1898 .
Two experiments were made on cats .
The central end of the agus , cut a little below the larynx , was turned forward and joined o the peripheral end of the cervical sympathetic .
The object of the xperiments was to see whether the vagus nerve fibres are capable of orming connexions with any of the structures with which the pinal nerve fibres of the cervical sympathetic are normally connected .
The results seem to me to be conclusive as regards this 'oint .
The time allowed for regeneration was in one case 73 days , and in he other 123 days .
At the end of these periods anaesthetics were gain given , and the nerves stimulated .
Stimulation of the sympathetic in the lower region of the neck , .e .
, of its central end , gave no effect of any kind .
Hence the entral end of the sympathetic had formed no functional connexions nth the peripheral end .
Stimulation of the sympathetic a little below the superior cervical .anglion caused reflex effects of the kind caused by vagus stimula-ion .
These reflexes were obvious in the case in which 123 days lad been allowed for regeneration , less clear in that in which seventy-hree days only had been allowed .
They ceased on section of the 'agus close to the ganglion of the trunk .
Thus afferent fibres of the agus had grown outwards amongst , or joined " with , the fibres of the leripheral end of the sympathetic .
The stimulation also caused all the effects normally produced by timulation of the cervical sympathetic , so that , although the central nd of the sympathetic had not joined the peripheral end , the teripheral end had acquired more or less completely its normal unction .
Stimulation of the vagus a little below the ganglion of the trunk \#151 ; the nerve being cut centrally of the point stimulated\#151 ; caused lilation of the pupil , retraction of the nictitating membrane , con-raction of the arteries of the ear , erection of the hairs of the face .ecretiou of the sub-maxillary gland , and the other effects normally aused by stimulating the cervical sympathetic .
After injection of nicotine no effect was obtained by stimulating he nerves centrally of the superior cervical ganglion ; the usual 'fleets following when the ganglion itself was stimulated .
Hence , efferent fibres of the vagus had either grown along the VOL. LXll .
2 B Prof. W , M. Hicks .
peripheral end of the cervical sympathetic , and formed nerv endings aronnd the cells of the superior cervical ganglion , or the had united directly with the sympathetic fibres .
That the form had taken place I infer from the fact that the regenerated nen contained medullated fibres larger than those proper to the symp ; thetic .
I conclude from the experiments that there is no essential difife ence between the efferent " visceral " or " involuntary " nerve fibre whether they leave the central nervous system by way of tl cranial nerves , by way of the sacral nerves , or by way of tl spinal nerves to the sympathetic system .
All of these fibres I tal to be pre-ganglionic fibres .
And I think that any pre-ganglion fibre is capable , in proper conditions , of becoming connected wit any nerve cell with which a pre-ganglionic fibre is normally coi nected ; although apparently this connexion does not take pla( with equal readiness in all cases .
On the whole it appears to m that the functions exercised both by pre-ganglionic and by pos ganglionic fibres depend less upon physiological differences tha upon the connexions which they have an opportunity of inakin during the development of the nervous system and of the othe tissues of the body .
A fuller account of the observations will be published in tl ) 'Journal of Physiology , ' after some further experiments have bee made .
" Researches in Vortex Motion .
Part III .
On Spiral or Oyr\lt ; static Vortex Aggregates .
" By W. M. Hicks , F-K\gt ; Received January 12 , \#151 ; Read February 3 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) A portion of the communication ( Sect. II ) extends the theory o the simple spherical vortex discovered by Hill .
Ihe chief pai ( Sects .
I and III ) refers , however , to a kind of gyrostatic aggregafi The investigation has brought to light an entirely new system spiral vortices .
To give an idea of the species of motion considered take the case of motion of an infinitely long cylindrical vortex c sectional radius a. The velocity perpendicular to the axis mside vortex will be of the form v \#151 ; f(r ) where/ ( o ) = 0 .
Outsu e i wi .
be \lt ; nven by v = Va/ r where V =/ ( \#171 ; ) . . .
We may , however , have a motion in which the fluid moves para to the axis inside the cylinder with rest outside .
The vdoeityjjh be of the form u = F(r ) inside , where F(\#171 ; ) - 0 and ze\#153 ; '^ .
Roth Hr ) and F(r ) are arbitrary functions subject only o til m = o and F(u ) = 0 .
Putting aside for the present \#187 ; '\#166 ;

