]\gt ; Messrs. A. S. Russell and R. Rossi .
[ Sept. 26 , within the limits of the substance , the surface tension may have time to cause the filament to break from instability .
It would appear , therefore , that any liquid which can be drawn into threads can also produce films , but that the converse is not true , and this seems to agree with observed facts .
Since the explanations which I have put forward in note depend more on observation thau experiment , it is probable that an exact knowledge of the relations of and some modification necessary ; but that the separate limits of volume dilatation and shear are the groundwork of the characteristics which are denoted by the adjectives in the ] ( and many others ) is , I think , almost certain .
An Investigation of the of Ionium .
By A. S. , Carnegie Research Fellow of the Uniyersity of Glasgow , and R. ROSSI , M.Sc .
, Hon. Research Fellow of the University of fanchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received September 26 , \mdash ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) The preparation of described by Prof. Rutherford in the footnote consisted of a mixture of the oxides of ionium and thorium .
The percentage of ionium oxide in the preparation is not known .
It can be calculated , however , provided we know both the period of ionium and the number of -particles emitted by 1 .
of the substance per second .
The latter has been determined by Dr. H. Geiger , who found that 1 expelled -particles per second .
The period , however , is not known with certainty .
Soddy has found that , on certain assumptions , it is at least *The preparation of ioniun ] examined by Messrs. Russell and Rossi was separated from the actinium residues loaned to me by the Royal Society in 1907 .
A detailed statement of the methods employed in its separation has been given by Prof. B. B. Boltwood in a paper entitled " " Report on the Separation of and Actinium from certain Residues , on the Production of Helium by Ionium\ldquo ; ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p. 77 ) .
The preparation consisted of pure thorium oxide , containing an unknown percentage of ionium oxide .
From measurements of the number of -particles emitted by the preparation it was concluded that it should contain at least 10 per cent. of ionium , if the period of the latter were not less than 100,000 years .
On these data itwas anticipated that the preparation should show clearly the strong spectroscopic lines of ionium as well as a complete spectrum of thorium.\mdash ; E. RUTHERFORD .
1912 .
] An of the Spectrum of Ioniurn .
100,000 years , and this is the only experimental result that we have at present .
If be the percentage by weight of ionium present in the material , and the period of ionium in years , then and connected by the equation being the nunlber of -particles expelled by 1 .
of radium per second , and 1760 the period of radium in years .
Thus , if the period of ionium be 100,000 years , there is less than 16 per oent .
of ionium oxide in the preparation .
It is well known that ionium and thorium are chemically non-separable .
The most persistent efforts , first of Keetman , later of Aver .
Welsbach and others , have failed to separate these two elements from one another , or to alter the concentration of one of them in the least degree , the sensitiyeness of the methods of radioactivity for the slightest change of concentration .
For this reason , the conclusion is hardly to be avoided that these two elements are not merely chemically similar , chemically identical .
It is therefore highly interesting , apart altogether from the interest in the spectrum of a new body , to examine the influence of a slight difference in the atomic weights of two very sinlilar elements , on so characteristic a property of an element as its spectrum .
Before its spectrum was taken , the ioninm preparation was puriiied from any impurities it contain by the usual well-known methods of purification of thorium .
A quantity of ordinary thorium was pulified also .
The most likely } ) urities in thorium are cerium , lanthanum , and didymium .
The only probable rity in the ionium-thorium is scandium since all others should have been separated completely by the chemical methods employed by Boltwood .
The preparation was treated , however , as if every known element were present impurity .
The strongly ignited oxide was fused in a platinum crucible with potassium bisulphate , the resultant mass powdered , and dissolved in hot water .
The ionium and thorium were then precipitated as hydroxide by ) monia , and the precipitate , after being well washed , was dissolved in hydrochloric acid .
To this solution was added a strong solution of ammonium oxalate in excess , and the whole diluted to 800 , and , after standing over , filtered .
To the filtrate was added hydrochloric acid in excess , and the ionium-thorium 'Jahr .
Radioaktivitat , ' 1909 , vol. 6 , p. 269 .
'Wien Ber 1910 , vol. 119 ( iia ) , p. 1011 .
Messrs. A. S. Russell and R. Rossi .
[ Sept. 26 , oxalate fltered off .
The oxalate was converted into hydroxide , and the lattel dissolved in hydrochloric acid .
The -thorium was precipitated from ] this solution as hydr xide 1 lleans of sodium thiosulphate , this operation repeated .
The solution of the hydroxide , after the second precipitation with thiosulphate , was eated with ammonium oxalate solution , and the whole series ) , described above was gone through .
After the fourth treatment tbiosulpLate , the ionium reci i by moni and ignited .
By this sei.ies of sbes t ilihiu preparation was tained in a very ) Two amlue of thorium nitrate were purified by exactly the same ethods , used as arison body in the spectroscopic of ioninm purified was precipitated from a neutral solution hydrogen peroxide in excess .
The itate was filtered ofl in nitric acid , and the solution evaporated to yness .
The ioni -thi was then dissolved in water , and the precipitation with oxide 1epeated .
substance was brought solution us before , and the ionium-thorium precipitated from a neutral solution by ) -nitrobenzoic acid .
The flocculent precipitate was fltered off , dissolved in nitric acid , and the lepeabed .
The precipitate was then nited .
This second process of purification is simpler than the first , and ensures in the end quite as pure a preparation of ionium-thorium oxide .
The arc spectrum of pure oxide was compared with that of ionium-thorium oxide by the one above the other on the same phic plate .
The examined extended from 3800 to The arc was between poles of graphite .
A hole was bored in the lowel } ) was positive , and in it was placed from 40 to 60 mgrnl .
of the oxide .
At first , a small grating of 1 metre radius was used , but the first order of a vland concave grating , feet in radius of culvature , elnployed .
The latter gave a dispersion of gstrom units per millimetre on the raphic plate .
With the smaller ?
rating an exposule of 10 seconds was sufficient , and with the larger grating to 6 } inutes .
When the ionium preparation was burned in the arc , bulb surrounded the poles to pr.event loss of the yaluable material by spluttering .
Two comparison experiments were carried out with the smaller , and three with the rating .
In each of the five cases , however , the spectrum of the ionium and thorium was identical with thaG of pure thorium , except 1912 .
] An Investigation of thoe Spectrum of for the presence of about five of the strongest lines of scandium in the former preparation .
Careful examination with a lens reyealed no other difference .
The scandium lines were much weaker in the ionium preparation purified by the first method than in that purihed by the second , that some of the scandium had been removed by the chemical processes .
The scandium lines were quite marked in unpurified ionium oxide .
Scandium is an element detectable in very small amount , ; partially to its low atomic weight and partially to the great intensity of some of its lines .
The amount of it in the was estimated at less than three or four parts in a thousand .
Its presence in the ionium preparation absence in the pure thorium preparation can be explained easily .
Scandium , of all the rare earths , resembles thorium most strongly .
Like thorium it is precipitated by hydrofluosilicic acid in acid solution and by sodium thiosulphate .
It is readily soluble in alkali carbonates and alkali oxalates .
It is also precipitated quantitatively by meta-nitrobenzoic acid , and also to a cel.bain extent by hydrogen peroxide in neutral solution .
* In the pitchblende , from which the ionium was concentrated , some scandium must have been present , and this amount has been ] centrated with the ) and the ionium ; in monazite sand , from which the pure thorium is obtained , it is , however , absent .
As ionium was present in the mixture in amount less than could be detected spectroscopically , further experiments were carried out to determine how small a percentage of impurity could be detected with certainty in pure thorinm .
The bodies chosen for this purpose were and .
The former was selected because it is a rare earth very similar in chemical properties to thorium , and has the same type of spectrum .
As bodies of low atomic weight , in eneral , are detectable spectroscopically in smaller amount than bodies of high atomic weight , the oxide of uraninm , whose atomic weight is very similar to of ionium , was also used as an impurity .
It was found with the larger that 1 per cent. of was very easily detected , and both 2 and 1 per cent. of could be detected with certainty ; per cent. of could not be detected ; 1 per cent. of is just on the limit of detection .
It is natural to expect that the spectrum of is of the same type as the of thorium and cerium , since it is a rare earth , and also that it would be quite distinct and characteristic .
Again , a percentage of oc .
, ' 1908 , , vol. 84 , p. 82 ; R. J. Meyer , ' .
fiir VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A. Messrs. A. S. Russell and R. Rossi .
[ Sept. 26 , ionium not greater than that of the used should be sufficient for its detection in the ionium-thorium preparation .
There is , however , not the slightest trace of any new lines due to ionium .
The obvious conclusion , therefore , is that ionium is present in the active preparation to the extent of not more than 1 or 2 per cent. The maximum value of the period of ionium , therefore , cannot exceed years , i.e. 12,000 years , provided radium is the only transformation product of ionium .
There is no experimental evidence which contradicls this maximum value of the period .
Soddy , * whose work on the rowth of radium from purified uranium extending over six years has contributed much to our of the period of ionium , gives 100,000 years as a minimum estimate , provided that ionium is the only member of the disintegration series between uranium X and radium .
From an entirely different set of experiments on the growth of ionium from active preparations of uranium X , the same author concludes that if uranium X is transformed directly into ionium , the period ' the latter must exceed 30,000 years . .
result is consistent with both results of Soddy , if ionium be not the only body between uranium X and radium in the disintegration series .
There must be ab least one new body preceding ionium .
This body has not yet been detected chemically .
It does not emit -rays , for all the -rays emitted by uranium and its products are already accounted for .
It is very probably rayless , or it emits soft -rays only .
Quite recently , and Nuttall have shown that there is a relation- ship between the ranges of the -ray products of the uranium-radium series , and the periods of these substances .
If the logarithms of the ranges of the -rays are plotted against those of the transformation constants , straight line joining the points is obtained .
From this line the authors , knowing the of the -ray , have deduced a period of 200,000 years for ionium .
This estimate is , of course , independent of any assumption as to whether or not ionium is the only product between uranium X and radium .
This value is nearly twenty times reater than the maximum value obtained by us .
The relation of Geiger and Nuttall is , however , merely empirical , and , as they themselves point out , it is not obeyed strictly by radium C. Ionium Summary of Results , given in lecture at Royal Institution on March 15 , 1912 , ' Nature , ' 1912 , vol. 89 , p. 203 ; also ' Phil. Mag 1910 , vol. pp. 340 and 342 .
'Phil .
Mag 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 613 ; 1912 , vol. 23 , p. 439 .
1912 .
] An Investigation of the Spectrwrn of Iomium .
also seems to be an exception .
It may , therefore , be said that , while the result of and Nuttall does not confirm our result , it does not necessarily disprove it .
There are , however , two othel possible ways of explaining our failure to obtain a distinct spectrum for ionium , besides the one discussed above .
It is possible that : ( 1 ) Ionium has no arc spectrum in the region investigated , or ( 2 ) Ionium and thorium have identical spectra in the region investigated .
The first possibility is highly improbable , for all solids of atomic weight have arc spectra , and , further , all rare earths have complicated spectra .
The second possibility , though somewhat speculative in nature , is suggested by some recent work on the chemical properties of the radio-elements .
There is no evidence at present to disprove its truth .
It is well known that there are no less than four sets of ] radio-elements , the members of each of which are chemically non-separable .
These elements do not all belong to the group of rare earths , many non-radioactive members of are to be chemically very similar .
Mesothorium , for instance , which is chemically non-separable from radium , belongs to the alkaline earth group .
Again , the two non-separable -ray products which are present in ordinary uranium , and which have been called by and Nuttall ( loc. cit. ) nranium 1 and uranium 2 , to the chrornium-molyb(Ieuum-tungsten roup ( elements .
The explanation of these striking chemical similarities is very p1obably that the two very similar bodies are really different members of the same group of eleInents , the difference in their chemical properties being less pronounced than the differences between other meml ) of the same , owing to the small difference in their atomic weights .
But the possibility that they are identical in all physical and chemical properties , and differ only in atomic weight and in radioactive properties , should not be lost of .
If this explanation should eventually prove to be justified , the spectrum of ionium would be identical with that of thorium .
The arc spectrum of a highly active preparation of ionium containing thorium has been ated .
No new lines due to ionium have been obtained .
From this result it has been deduced the period of ionitun cannot exceed 12,000 years .
This result , taken in conjunction with Soddy 's results on the period of ionium , points to the existence of at least one new comparatively long-lived body between uraniulu and ionium in the yration series .
484 of the Spectrum of Ionium .
We have to thank Prof. Rutherford very much , not only for his constant help and advice , but also for putting facilities for chemical work at our disposal , and for the loan of the very valuable preparation of ionium used in the expel.iments .
[ Note add 5 , 1912.\mdash ; After this research had been and the results communicated to the Royal Society , our attention was drawn to a paper read by Prof. F. Exner and Dr. E. Haschek before the Vienna on June 20 , and published in the ' Wiener Berichte , ' 1912 , vol. , pp. 1075-77 .
These authors have investigated the spectrum of an ionium preparation arated by .
Welsbach from pitchblende ; 1 .
of this preparation contains approximately two-thirds of the amount of ionium in our preparation .
The spectrum was investigated both in the visible and the ultra- violet region of the spectrum .
The spectrum obtained showed lines of ceritun , scandium , and yttrium , and also of five less common rare earths .
No lines , however , could be assigned to ionium .
They point out , as we have done , that the period of ionium has been very much over-estimated , and estimate that it may be even less than that of radium .
They do not discuss , however , how this result may be reconciled with the estimates of Soddy .
]

