[ 471 ] XIV .
Description of Fossil Remains of Two Species of a Genus ( Meiolania ) from u Lord Howe 's By Sir Richard Owen , , , dc .
Received March .
15 , \#151 ; Read April 1 , 1886 .
[ Plates 29-32 .
] In 1884 I was favoured by Dr. Woodward , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , with the inspection of a series of fossil remains from " Lord Howe 's Island , " which had been transmitted by the Government of New South Wales ( Department of Mines ) to the Department of Geology in the British Museum of Natural History .
These fossils indicated a Saurian Reptile allied to the genus , characters of which are described and figured in the * Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society ' for the years 1858 , 1880 , and 1881 .
The geographical conditions of the island , its extent not exceeding six miles in length by one mile in average width , and its distance from the nearest continental tract of land\#151 ; about 450 miles due east of Port Macquarie , Australia\#151 ; lent unusual interest to acquisitions of knowledge of the kinds of vertebrate air-breathing animals which had there left evidence of their nature and affinities .
The most singular of the Saurians of Australia , now extinct , was the many-horned toothless kind , which has received the name of an addition to the osteology of which , throwing light upon its medium and mode of locomotion , was the subject of a late communication to the Society.* A reptile of this genus , or nearly allied thereto , but of a species inferior in size , I conclude , after comparison of the fossil remains , to claim a generic or sub-generic distinction , and propose to designate it Meiolania .
These fossils arrived imbedded in a coral-sand rock , t and are indicative of two species slightly differing in size and in characters not explicable on difference of individual age .
They have been carefully worked out of their matrix by Mr. Barlow , of the British Museum , with his usual skill and care , to which the " Department of Geology " owes the display of instructive characters of many of its rare fossil specimens .
* " Description of Fossil Remains , including Foot-bones , of Megalania Read January 28,1886 .
t See Appendix to the present Paper .
The subject of figs. 1-2 ( Plate 29 ) is the occipital and basi-sphenoidal part of the skull , showing the reptilian character of a single occipital condyle .
Of this specimen the marginal portions , 2 , 2 , fig. 1 , supplied by the ex-occipitals are slightly convex ; the larger proportion ( ib. , l ) , due to the basi-occipital , is more feebly concave ; but the sutures , still discernible in the corresponding part of Megalania are obliterated , and the shape of the condyle is semicircular , not elliptical .
Its breadth is 33 mm. , its height is 22 mm. The outlet of the brain case ( foramen magnum , is of equal size to that in the larger genus , and is elliptical , not circular .
Its vertical diameter is 25 mm. , its transverse diameter is 23 mm. The confluent side extensions of the occiput , formed by the basi- , ex- , and par-occipitals , constitute a massive extent of bone ( ib. , 4 , 2 inches in vertical diameter and 1^ inches transversely .
The part directed downward ( p ) and extending below the condyle is divided by a large irregular cavity ( x ) from the transverse cuboidal mass ( 4 ) above .
The super-occipital spine or ridge is sharper than in Megalania prisca ( fig. cit. ) ; its summit , showing a broader base , is broken off .
The breadth of the occiput is 4 inches 8 lines ( 100 mm. ) , its height 2-| inches ( 65 mm. ) .
The cranial cavity at the fore part of this segment ( Plate 29 , fig. 2 , of the skull gives 30 mm. in the transverse , 35 mm. in the vertical diameter .
The portions of cranial wall continued forward from the sides of the brain case are thin , not exceeding 2 mm. The roof of the brain case here preserved is impressed by a transverse semicircular canal or sinus ( s ) 3 mm. in diameter .
The lower border of the anterior fracture shows the canal leading down to the recess ( r , fig. 2 ) lodging the pituitary remnant of the primitive pharyngeal tract .
Half-way between the fore and hind apertures of the brain case a small tuberosity ( rises from the middle of the floor .
Behind this , where the side wall rises from the floor , are two small orifices , leading each to a canal which has its outlet ( fig. 1 , u ) at the base of the ex-occipital .
In advance of these intracranial foramina is the entry of a larger canal leading to an irregular cavity ( fig. 1 , x ) , widely opening , in the present mutilated fossil , at y ( fig. 2 ) upon the under part of the broad and deep par-occipital process , p. From this cavity or chamber a canal , 12 mm. by 10 mm. diameter , leads obliquely inwards and forwards ( fig. 2 , y ) towards the wall of the pituitary chamber .
The under surface of the basi-occipital is concave , expanding as it descends and advances .
Its junction , and here coalescence , with the basi-sphenoid is indicated by a pair of ridges which diverge from near the mid-line outward and backward .
The par-ex-occipitals ( 4 , 4 ) are sub-quadrate masses , terminated each by a hemispheroid cavity with a thin sharp border .
Each ex-occipital is excavated behind and below by the chamber , into which opens the canal from the larger of the three foramina on each side of the occipital division of the cranial chamber .
A large foramen ( fig. 1 , m ) on the upper and forepart of the ex-occipital leads also to the sinus ( x ) , from which cavity is continued a wider * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1880 , vol. 171 , Plate 36 , figs. 1 and 2 .
OF A MEGALANIAN GENUS FROM LORD HOWE'S ISLAND .
channel ( y)opening on the outer side of the " sella turcica with this opening communicates the " trigeminal canal " ( fig. 2 , e ) .
Returning to the base of this part of the skull , will be seen , half an inch from the mesial ends of the basi-sphenoidal ridges , a second basal floor formed by a flattened horizontal plate of bone with a smooth under-surface 2 inches broad at the hind border and narrowing as it advances to an inch and a quarter 's breadth , where it terminates with a forward production of its angles , between and above which protrudes a continuation of the proper -* basis cranii " constituting the floor of the pituitary cavity .
The interspace between the true and false basis cranii is 2 mm. vertically at the fore part , 3 mm. at the hind part of the supplementary plate .
The breadth of the hinder interspace is 40 mm. , of the anterior interspace 25 mm. The extreme breadth of this singularly complex part of the skull is 4 inches , the vertical diameter of the occiput is 3 inches ; but this would be exceeded if the superoccipital spine were entire .
What I regard as the cranial outlet of the trigeminal nerve opens into a wider passage leading to the large irregular smooth-surfaced chamber ( fig. .1 , x ) , excavated at the under part of the par-occipital production ( p ) .
The flatness of the basi-sphenoidal tract contrasts with the concavity of that region shown at 5 , fig. 2 , Plate 36 ( 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1880 , vol. 171 ) in Megalania prisca .
The amount and degree of modification of the hinder part of the skull of Meiolania add to other grounds for generic or subgeneric distinction of the present horned Saurian , manifested by the fossils next to be described .
In the same block with the occipital part of the skull was sent the fore end of , apparently , the same skull ( Plate 29 , figs. 3-6 ) , judging by relative size , colour , and state of fossil isation .
This specimen included the floor of the outer nostril ( figs. 3 and 6 , n , ?
i ) with a partial bony septum ( pi ) commencing half an inch behind the nasal aperture .
The breadth of this nostril is llr inches ; the smooth surface of the cavity to which it leads contrasts with the coarse reticulate sculpturing of the surface at the fore part of the upper jaw , which describes a transverse convex curve to the fractures ( figs. 4 , 6 , m , m ) , severing the fossil from the rest of the skull .
The alveolar border ( fig. 4 ) is a trenchant plate ( a ) with a semi-circular notch at the mid-line .
The plate is thickened by a slight buttress of bone on each side of the notch ; there is not a trace of dental alveolus .
The smooth channel ( 6 ) , of which the trenchant border { a ) forms the outer wall , is half an inch in breadth , and is bounded behind by a shorter and lower pair of ridges ( ib. , c , c ) almost parallel with the foremost .
Each of the hind ridges ( c , c ) commences opposite the thicker mesial part of the outer ridge ( ) .
The intervening channel ( d ) sinks deeper than the lateral ones into the jaw 's substance .
The bony palate extends backward from the mesial ends of the hind ridges , where it has a breadth of half an inch ; it narrows as it extends outwards to the terminations of those ridges .
The floor of the nasal cavity ( fig. 6 , n)extends backward for half an inch behind the anterior opening , then abruptly sinks to a plane ( fig. 5 , g ) half an inch below the hind borders of the partially divided passages .
This seemingly second floor also extends beneath the floor of that fore part of the outer nostril , as it were , undermining it , and contracting to a blind end two-thirds of an inch in advance of the overlying base of the partial bony " septum narium " ( fig. 6 , o The smooth surface of the naso-palatal cavity extends outward and downward on each side of the above part of the floor and behind the outer ends of the hinder trenchant walls of the alveolar channels .
The thickness of the jaw-bone forming the side walls of the palatal tracts at a transverse line drawn across the lower floor ( fig. 6 , g ) of the nasal chamber is two-thirds of an inch .
The fracture of this part of the upper jaw on the right side exposes a small smooth-surfaced sinus ( fig. 5 , i ) .
The under-surface of the mid-portion ( fig. 4 , g ) of the bony palate shows a pair of depressions from each of which a small canal is continued into the substance of the upper jaw .
If the fossil above described ( Plate 29 , figs. 3-6 ) be compared with the corresponding part of the skull of Megalania prisca , * the bony narial septum will be seen to be similarly incomplete , dividing the lower half only of the nostril .
The trenchant border of the beak ( fig. 3 , Plate 38 , ib. ) is similarly incomplete ; the trenchant border of the upper mandible of Megalania shows also a median notch , which I deemed might be " due to accident " ( tom .
cit. , p. 1043 ) , but it is only partially so .
If the under-surface of the fore end of the upper jaw of Meiolania ( fig. 4 ) be compared with that part of Megalania ( fig. 3 , Plate .
38 ) , the difference , added to those already and subsequently noticed in other parts of the skull , may be admitted to exceed mere specific distinction .
The second trenchant ridge in Megalania is coextensive and parallel with the outer one , and is followed by a third nearly parallel ridge , but lower , and of less extent .
In both Reptiles these ridges were , most probably , sheathed with horn , as in the Chelonian Reptiles .
The bony roof of the mouth is continued in Megalania a short way behind the third trenchant ridge .
The narrower medial backward production of the bony palate has not , in Megalania , the mid-longitudinal rising with the lateral and perforated depressions as in Meiolania .
The anterior transverse curve of the upper mandible ( premaxillaries ) is greater in the smaller edentulous Saurian .
The partial bony septum ( fig. 3 , ol ) terminates obtusely in Meiolania without trace of fracture .
The vertical extent of the fore and outer plate of the upper jaw in Meiolania is relatively greater than in Megalania , and no trace of the outer channel impressing the interspace between the nostril and orbit is present in the portion of Meiolanian skull above described . !
Plate 30 represents the upper surface , natural size , of the portion of the skull of Meiolania platyceps which could be exposed in the block of matrix in which it was buried .
The skull had suffered fracture , with some dislocation of parts , but retained * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , vol. 171 , Plato 37 , fig. 1 , and Plate 38 , fig. 3 .
t See Plate 38 tom.cit .
, fig. 1 , o n OF A MEGALANIAN GENUS FROM LORD HOWE'S ISLAND .
the positions in which they had become imbedded .
The partially detached right horn-core , fig. 2 , is figured below , in the position to show its curvature .
Three eminences of the outer table of the cranium , Plate 30 , answer to the three protruding from each side of the corresponding parts of the skull in prisca* The homologues of the shorter horn-cores are represented in Meiolania by low obtuse eminences , a , c. The main horn-core , rises from a broadly elliptical base to a height of 4 inches , following the convex curvature , which is backward and slightly outward ; its basal circumference is 6^ inches .
The right side of the cranial wall had suffered a greater degree of fracture , and the main horn-core had become detached ; its relative position in the mass of matrix is nearly parallel transversely with the left undisturbed horn-core .
The side of the cranial wall , from which the right horn is detached , shows the hinder rudimental core , c ; it differs from the anterior one , a , in its lower development , and narrower , more elongate , basal proportions .
The tract of the upper wall of the skull , continued forward from the main horn-core and anterior protuberance , a , includes the upper border of the left orbit , and that preserved portion of the frontal region extends to the right orbit o. The skull-wall is continued forward to the outer nostril , of which the right border is preserved , with a portion of that side of the upper jaw , 21 , 22 .
On the under-side of this maxillo-premaxillary part of the skull , Plate 29 , fig. 4 , is shown the absence of tooth-sockets , and their replacement , in the present species of Meiolania , by three curved , nearly parallel , trenchant ridges , with the two intervening channels .
The osseous parts , which had been ensheathed by the perishable corneous beak , differ from that of Megalania prisca ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1880 ) inasmuch as the intermediate ridge subsides sooner at its fore end , leaving the mesial portion of this surface of the bony mouth as a broader and shallower depression undivided by the forward continuation of the second ridge .
In Meiolania minor a third trenchant ridge is not developed .
The outer surface of the skull-wall of Meiolania platyceps , Plate 30 , is sub-reticulate , the boundaries of the depressions being barely prominent .
The only traceable suture on the exposed tract of skull is a medial one between the parial frontals and nasals .
The basal mutilation of this part of the skeleton of Meiolania ( Plate 31 , fig. 1 ) is such as to preclude reliable description .
The right main horn-core ( Plate 30 , fig. 2 ) is so displaced , by probably disturbing movements of the matrix , as to show the degree of backward curvature .
The characters above described indicate a larger species than Meiolania minor , but add grounds for the generic distinction from the still larger Australian horned Saurian .
The fracture at the upper surface of the skull , marked x in Plate 30 , may relate to a seventh horn-core ; if so , it has a hinder position in relation to the orbit than in the subject of fig. 1 , Plate 38 , of the 'Phil .
Trans. ' for 1880 .
* Plate 37 , fig. 1 , b , e , f , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1880 .
Subsequent discoveries in Lord Howe 's Island may indicate sexual modifications in Meiolania , but the occipital and mandibular characters above defined , the subjects of Plates 1 and 2 , are of higher taxonomic value .
The main horn-core , b , in Meiolania , is shorter in proportion to its basal breadth ; the hinder protuberance is lower and has a longer base ; the reticular sculpturing of the superficies of the larger horns and contiguous parts of the cranial wall is more strongly marked than in Megalania .
Here , also , I may observe that , if the part marked x in Plate 30 be merely fracture , the nasal horn in the Moloch Saurian ( 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1880 , Plate 37 , fig. 8 ) has not a bony support , and such might be the case in the horned Saurians of Lord Howe 's Island .
The length of the imbedded portion of the skull of Meiolania above des cribed , is 9| inches ; the breadth across the bases of the biggest horn-cores is 6^ inches .
The subject of fig. 2 , Plate 31 , is the symphysial extremity of the mandible of a larger Meiolania , including similar modifications for support of a lower horny beak , and the commencement of the mandibular rami thence diverging .
The anterior of the trenchant ridges , a , a , is notched in the middle ; the next is divided by a median channel .
The partially preserved oral surface extends backward on a tract of bone , e , half an inch in vertical breadth or thickness , which overlies the smooth inner surface , ^ of the attached parts of the mandibular rami .
The anterior trenchant border terminates at each outer end in a tuberosity , t , from which the corresponding border of the ramus descends , and expands to form a smooth , broad , slightly concave surface , f , defining the upper part of so much of the ramus as is here preserved .
The rough granulo-reticulate outer surface of the lower jaw , continued at right angles from the smooth upper surface , makes an abrupt bend inward to a broad , flattened , similarly sculptured , under-surface of the beginning of the ramus , where it extends freely backwards from the masticatory and symphysial part of the lower jaw .
The breadth of the lower surface , at the fracture , is 1^ of an inch ; the depth of the thick ramus here , between the upper smooth and lower sculptured surfaces , is half an inch .
The concave inner surface of the ramus , where it is continued from and undermines the hinder masticatory part of the symphysial end , is smooth .
The breadth of the mandible at the fractured ends of the rami is 5 inches .
This portion of jaw indicates a massive powerful bone , The above-described , fossil reached me in a detached state .
A second block of matrix includes an anterior vertebra , part of a scapula , and fragment of a humerus .
Of the vertebra , the hinder part is exposed , the fore part of the centrum is imbedded in the matrix .
A deep and well-defined concavity occupies the hind part of the centrum , showing an epicoelian character .
This articular surface is continued upon a pair of processes extending backward , and slightly diverging from the hinder and under part of the centrum .
Each process is short and thick , and terminates obtusely with an articular surface slightly convex , apparently for the attachment of a rib .
The OP A MEGALANIAN GENUS FROM LORD HOWE'S ISLAND .
477 proportion of the margin of the articular concavity of the centrum , not continued upon the parapophysis , is sharply defined ; this articular surface is 1^ inch by 1 inch 2 lines .
In Part III .
, 'Phil .
Trans./ 1881 , vol. 172 , portions of the dermal skeleton , with productions meriting the name of " caudal horns , " were described and figured .
Meiolaniarepeats , with modifications , these characters of Megalanict .
An osseous sub-cylindrical sheath , with similar defensive processes , was brought to light in one of the blocks of matrix forming part of the series of fossils from Lord Howe 's Island ( figs. 3 and 4 , Plate 31 ) .
To get clear demonstration that this sheath included vertebrae , a portion was removed , and careful detachment of enclosed matrix brought to light caudal centrums , one sufficiently well preserved to show the elongate sub-cylindrical shape of the vertebral body , and the reduced area of the neural canal overarched by a simple thin bridge of bone .
The three segments , subjects of fig. 3 , consist each of an exo- and endo-skeleton .
The former , x , x , is a cylinder , 2^ inches long , with an upper and a lower lateral pair of obtuse processes , d , d ' .
The thickness of the sheath varies from 2 mm. to 10 mm. , the interspace between it and the included vertebra varies from 13 mm. to 3 mm. The osseous processes may have supported horny sheaths .
The tail was relatively as long , probably , as in the Moloch Lizard ( Plate 37 , fig. 9 , ' Phil. Trans./ 1880 ) ; and , as in that surviving representative , the terminal segments ceased to develope caudal horns .
A portion of this part of the tail is the subject of fig. 4 , Plate 31 .
The endo-skeleton , reduced to the vertebral centrums , is partially exposed .
A singular appendage this long and seemingly inflexible tail must have been in the living Meiolania , contrasting with that part of the frame in the Chelonian order , whilst the edentulous modification at the opposite end of the body resembled that of the Tortoises and Turtles .
The greater and closer affinity to the Saurian section of Reptilia is manifested by the vertebrae and parts of the limbs which have been brought to light .
The portion of scapula includes the glenoid cavity , a little mutilated at the margin , and part of the expanded body or blade ; the " neck " supporting the cavity is well marked .
The breadth of the preserved portion of this bone is 4 inches , the opposite diameter is 2 inches .
The absence of any trace of suture between the blade and neck , or in the articular cavity , precludes a reference of the fossil to a coracoid .
The portion of humerus includes the expanded proximal end , the shaft supporting which has undergone fracture ; this discloses a large medullary cavity , the wall varying from 5 to 3 mm. in thickness .
Though fragmentary , this fossil is acceptable as testifying to a terrestrial stage of active life .
In a former memoir * was noted the coalescence of the centrum and neural arch of a trunk vertebra ; t and in the series of comparisons with the spinal column in other * " Description of Remains of Megalania prisca , " Part II .
, ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , vol. 171 , p. 1037 .
t P. 1038 .
Reptilia , both extinct and existing , a like coalescence of the vertebral elements was found in the small existing Australian lizard { Moloch ) .
As this osteological character is the rule in the " warm-blooded " Vertebrates , the neural arch retaining , for the most part , its earlier stage of development in the coldblooded air-breathers , I was , in some measure , prepared by structures above described to recognise a corresponding advance of osteogeny in the piers of the pelvic arch of Meiolania .
In Anthropotomy the pelvic elements , recognised as becoming ossified from three chief centres , received the names of " ilium , " " ischium , " and " pubis " ; but , coalescing into a single bone in the adult , this was described as the " nameless bone"\#151 ; os minatum .
Such coalescence is rare in the class , and it adds to the singular characters of the Megalanian Family of the Antipodes .
I subjoin three figures of this " innominate " fossil from Lord Howe 's Island , and on the grounds of locality and contiguity refer it to the genus Meiolania .
The coalesced pelvic elements are denoted in Plate 32 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 , by the numerals indicative of them in the descriptions of the modifications of that part of the reptilian skeleton in my 'Anatomy of Vertebrates.'* Reference to those figures will show the contrast between the expanded { Mammalian ) character of the bone , 62 , in Crocodiles , and the almost columnar form in the Lacertian pelvis .
This latter form is attained or retained in Meiolania .
The ilium , 62 , is a triedral column , moderately expanded at the proximal end to join by a rough syndesmosis with a short sacrum ; and , at the distal end , to contribute its share to the acetabulum , a.One angle of the shaft or body of the bone looks outward , one plane inward .
The anchylosis of the osseous elements , which has dominated to an unusual extent in the skull of the Megalanian family , prevails in the pelvis .
There is no trace of a suture which would indicate the share taken by the ilium in the formation of the acetabular cavity .
The upper or " proximal " end of the triedral ilium expands in a moderate degree to unite by a rough surface ( fig. 2 , s ) with a sacrum .
The opposite , outer , surface of this expansion ( fig. I ) is also roughened , but in a minor degree , for attachment of a " glutseus " muscle .
Acetabular sutures indicative of the shares respectively taken by the ischium , 63 , and pubis , 64 , are also obliterated by the firm anchylosis of the pelvic bones of this powerful extinct Saurian .
The contour of the acetabulum deviates slightly from the circular toward the triangular form : the ischial and pubic angles are rounded off ( fig. 1 , a ) .
The diameter of the acetabular outlet gives two inches : the depth of the cavity is rather less than one inch .
These dimensions indicate the femur of Meiolania to have equalled that of the largest known Crocodilian in size .
Of the pubic element , 64 , little more than two inches are preserved : the bone contracts to a triedral form as it recedes from the articular cavity for the thigh-bone .
A smaller proportion of the ischium , 63 , is preserved , and it indicates an assumption of a more lamellate figure as it recedes from the acetabulum .
The length of the * Vol. 1 , 1866 , p. 188 , fig. 119 , Grocodilus ; p. 191 , fig. 121 , Monitor .
OF A MEGALANIAN GENUS FROM LORD HOWE'S ISLAND .
above-described portion of pelvis is 6f inches ; the fractured ischio-pubic end is 31 inches .
The size of this part of the fossil skeleton agrees with that indicated by the Meiolanian trunk-vertebrae , which hardly differ , save in size , from those previously described and figured in the type-species of the Megalanian family.* The subjects of a former paper indicated a pentadactyle and unguiculate character of one , probably the fore , pair of limbs in Megalan Geological Appendix .
" Lord Howe 's Island is formed of three elevated basaltic masses , connected by low-lying grounds of blown coral-sand formation .
The latter consists almost entirely of fine rounded grains and comminuted fragments of corals and shells .
" " The coral-sand rock is , in some places , very hard , but in others soft and easily disintegrated ; and was found to consist , when analysed , of carbonate of lime , with traces of phosphoric acid."t The authorities of the Geological Department of the Museum of Natural History report that : " The matrix in which the remains " ( Meiolanian ) " forwarded by Dr. Fitzgerald were embedded corresponds exactly with the description given by Mr. H. Wilkinson .
" " It consists of the minutely comminuted and semi-rounded remains of coral fragments , shells , and spines and plates of Echini , with occasional grains of volcanic substances , such as augite , magnetite , and altered lava-fragments .
It appears to be in a great measure simply an agglomerate , perhaps of an Hlolian| nature ; for a cementing medium is only partially present .
So little cohesion is there between the particles , which are of a tolerably uniform size , that it was with the greatest difficulty slices sufficiently thin for the microscope could be prepared .
" Mr. T. Davies , F.G.S. , of the " Department of Mineralogy , Natural History Museum , " who has kindly examined slides , writes :\#151 ; " The whole is cemented by a clear crystalline calcite , which does not , however , entirely fill the interstitial spaces , but is sufficient to cement together adjoining grains .
The fragments appear to owe their rounded aspect not alone to attrition , but probably partly to the solvent action which yields the crystalline calcite for the partially cementing medium .
" " The block , of coral-rock in which portions of the remains were entombed contained a number of irregular cavities ranging from less than an inch in size up to as much as six and nine inches in diameter .
These cavities were partially , or sometimes wholly , filled with a deep chocolate-brown soil , having all the appearance of the usual rich volcanic soils of the Australian continent .
By dissolving the soluble parts in water , a residue of volcanic products was left .
" * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , vol. 171 , Plates 34 and 35 .
t " Report , " by Mr. Henry Wilkinson , of the Department of Mines , Sydney .
+ This term signifies " wind " as the moving agent in contradistinction to " aqueous " and " igneous " Descbiption of the Plates.* PLATE 29 .
Meiolaniaminor .
Fig. 1 .
Occipital segment of the skull ; back view .
Fig. 2 .
Occipital segment of the skull ; front view .
Fig. 3 .
Fore end of upper jaw ; front view .
Fig. 4 .
Fore end of upper jaw ; under view .
Fig. 5 .
Fore end of upper jaw ; upper view .
Fig. 6 .
Fore end of upper jaw ; back view .
PLATE 30 .
Fig. 1 .
Skull of Meiolania platyceps ; upper surface , natural size .
Fig. 2 .
Eight horn-core , showing curvature .
PLATE 31 .
Meiolania platyceps .
Fig. 1 .
Under surface of the skull ; one-third natural size .
Fig. 2 .
Upper view of the fore end of the mandible of a larger individual .
Fig. 3 .
Upper view of three caudal vertebrae .
Fig. 4 .
Upper view of caudal vertebrae , nearer the tail-end .
In both views a portion of the exo-skeleton is removed , to show its thickness and the enclosed endo-skeletal vertebrae .
PLATE 32 .
Pelvic Bones of Meiolania .
Fig. ] .
Outer view , showing the acetabular cavity .
Fig. 2 .
Inner view .
Fig. 3 .
Side view .
* All the figures are of the natural size , save where otherwise expressed .
The letteis and " numerals " are explained in the text .
Phil. Trans. 1886 Plate 29 .
West , Newman k C ?
imp .
West , Newman k , Co. imp W.H Wesley litli .
Owe/ rv .
Phil. Trcuns .
1886 .
31 .
|Siip5gfpfi HPm ina \#187 ; \#165 ; g^a\#151 ; * \lt ; ?\#187 ; *j iK IV-.H.Wesley litlx .
" Wost , Newman \amp ; Co. imp .
Wesley

