The Cultural Evolution ofCyclamen latifolium .
135 March 18 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents l'eceived was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Cultural Evolution of Cyclamen latifolium ( Sibth .
) .
" By W. T. Thiselton Dyer , C.M.G. , C.I.E. , F.R.S. II .
" On the Conditions which render Absolute the Readings of the Mercurial Thermometer .
" By S. A. Sworn .
Communicated by Professor Clifton , F.R.S. III .
Experiments on the Flame Spectrum of Carbon Monoxide .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
" The Cultural Evolution of Cyclamen latifolium ( Sibth .
) .
" By W. T. Thiselton Dyer , C.M.G. , C.I.E. , F.R.S. Received and read March 18 , 1897 .
On the occasion of the discussion on " Variation in Plants and Animals , " which , took place on February 25 , 1895 , it occurred to me that it might be useful to give an illustration of the amount of change which had been effected in a plant by continuous selection under cultivation in a comparatively short time .
I , therefore , placed upon the table an example of the wild and of the cultivated form of the garden " cineraria " ( C. cruenta ) .
The choice of this species was purely accidental .
It was , however , violently impugned .
It vras contended that the garden cineraria was not the result of the development of a single species , but that it was of multiple origin , and the result of the intercrossing of several .
It was further contended that its change from the wild form had not been gradual , but by discontinuous steps or " sports .
" Neither con-tention seemed to me well founded .
But 1 admit that , owing to the lapse of time since the so-called " improvement " of the cineraria commenced , it is impossible to give formal proof that the process has been what I described .
Mr. Darwin met with the same difficulty .
He remarks : " We know hardly anything about the origin or history

