X. " ( Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias.9"-No .
XII .
Action of Cyanate of Ethyl on Urea .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1861 .
The facility with which creatine , under the influence of chemical agents , furnishes urea or its products of decomposition , has led to many attempts at reproducing the flesh-base from urea .
Weltzien* has endeavoured to effect this transformation by submitting ethylurea to the action of heat , expecting that this compound would exhibit a change analogous to one of the phases of the transformation of normal urea , under the influence of heat , 2C 11[4N2 = C2 15 N302+3 N Urea .
Biuret .
Ammonia .
2C 3H NO =0 C C4H N3 , + C2 N ( ?
) Ethyl-urea .
Creatine .
Ethylamine .
The reaction , however , appears to be accomplished in another form .
Creatine , or a substance isomeric with it , might have also been formed by the action of cyanate of ethyl on urea , CH N 0+C3 H NO=C H1N302 ( ?
) 442 -G3 Es N35493 02 ( ?
) Urea .
Cyanate of Creatine .
Ethyl .
I have performed this experiment .
Urea is most readily attacked by cyanate of ethyl .
On heating , the former dissolves in the cyanate to a clear liquid , which , when submitted for a quarter of an hour in a sealed tube to a temperature of 100 , is entirely changed .
The crystalline compound into which the liquid solidifies on cooling is no longer the original urea .
The principal product of this reaction is difficultly soluble in cold , but easily soluble in boiling water .
The solution in hot water deposits on cooling beautiful white scales of silky lustre , which , by an additional crystallization , may be obtained in a state of perfect purity .
On analysis , this substance was found to contain C , Hl N4 03 ; and it is thus seen that urea , instead of combining with one molecule of cyanate of ethyl , as is suggested in the above equation , fixes two molecules of this ether , C H11N20+2C3H,1NO0 C7 , 14 N4 03 Urea .
Cyanate of New compound .
Ethyl .
The new substance is readily soluble in alcohol and ether ; it likewise dissolves in dilute acids , but not more than in water ; it is also soluble in cold potash .
Addition of an acid to this solution reprecipitates the original body without change ; ebullition with potash , on the other hand , destroys the substance , the products of decomposition being exactly what might be expected from a compound formed by the union of urea and cyanate of ethyl , viz. amimonia , ethylanline , and carbonic acid , C7 14N,403+3H2 0= 2H,3N+2C,21 , N-+3CO2 .
The formation of the new crystalline compound presents some interest in revealing the diatomic character of urea , which , uniting generally with one molecule of an acid , fixes in this case two molecules of ( ethyl-cyanic ) acid .
If we endeavour to form an idea regarding the constitution of this compound , it is obvious that it may be referred to folur molecules of ammonia , ( CO ) , " C7 14 N3 ( C2 I5)2 N4 , -4 J when it presents itself as a tetramine , as a urea of a higher order , and becomes in a measure analogous to some of the ureas of diatomic bases lately studied by Dr. Volhard* , more especially to ethylenediethyl-urea , ( CO )2 18 tt18 4 V2 ( C2 115)2 4e The latter compound differs from the crystalline substance produced by the action of cyanate of ethyl on urea by the presence of the diatomic molecule C2 H41 , in the place of the diatomic molecule CO. The formula of the new compound represents also the ammoniumsalt of diethylcyanuric acid , ( CN)3 C7 1-1N4 N , 03= ( C , 01 ) iO3 .
( 11 , N ) J The substance , however , is not an ammonium-salt proprement dit .
Acids separate no diethylcyanuric acid ; the alkalies in the cold evolve no ammonia ; dichloride of platinum produces no precipitate in the aqueous solution .
The mother-liquor , from which the new compound has been deposited , contains cyanurate of ethyl and ethyl-urea , the formation of which substances requires no special explanation .

