370 Mr. J. Clark .
Protoplasmic Movements and [ June 20 , XVI .
" Protoplasmic Movements and their Relation to Oxygen Pressure .
" By James Clark .
Communicated by Professor Vines , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) That the presence of free oxygen is one of the essential conditions of protoplasmic movements has long been recognised .
Further than this however the subject has not hitherto been investigated .
The following are the results of a long series of experiments made to ascertain the minimum pressure of oxygen necessary to restore the streaming , amoeboid and ciliary movements of protoplasm after they have come to rest in the absence of that gas .
The object experimented upon was in each case placed in a hanging drop of water and exposed to an indifferent gas such as hydrogen or nitrogen , or else put into connexion with the exhausted receiver of an air-pump .
In the former case when the observed movement had ceased a current of indifferent gas containing a definite percentage of oxygen was passed over the object ; in the latter a small quantity of air was admitted and the pressure registered .
By varying in successive experiments the percentage of oxygen mixed with the diluent gas , and the quantity of air admitted into the air-pump , the minimum pressure of oxygen necessary to restore movement could be ascertained by both methods , so that one could act as a check upon the other .
In this way the minimum for the streaming movement m the plasmodia of Myxomycetes , and in the cells of hairs , of parenchyma , of xylem , phloem and cambium was found to vary from 1 mm. to over 3 mm. It was lowest for the plasmodia of Myxomycetes , the minimum for Chondrioderma difforme being 1 mm. , and for farinaceum 12 mm. Except with very old plasmodia the results obtained even with unfavourable specimens rarely exceeded 2 mm. With the vegetable cell the variation was much more extensive .
In such a favourable object as the root hairs of Trianea a minimum of 1"2 mm. was occasionally obtained , whereas for the partly cuticularised leaf hairs of Urtica americana it sometimes exceeded 3 mm. With the cells of the parenchyma the experimental difficulties were usually very great , and for those of the xylem , phloem , and cambium still more so .
With the former the minimum found for each plant usually lay between 2 mm. and 3 mm. , and was sometimes even less .
With the latter , cells of all three were ' found which gave similar results but these were rare , as death of the cell contents usually arrested the experiment .
It seems probable however that if variation due to experimental difficulties and the resistance of the cell wall to the passage of oxygen could be eliminated , the minima 1889 .
] their Relation to Oxygen Preeeure .
for the various tissues of different plants would not vary any more among themselves than do the actual results obtained for naked plasmodia .
The age of the cell or plasmodium and the conditions under which it has been developed to some extent influence the minimum oxygen pressure necessary to restore movement .
The time taken by the protoplasm to recover its streaming movement is too short to be measured in cases where the conditions are favourable , as in young hairs and in slender threads of plasmodia , but increases with cuticularisation of the cell wall , the age of the cell , and the length of time between the cessation of movement and the introduction of the necessary oxygen supply .
Very slight irritation of the plasmodia during the experiment causes them to contract towards definite centres where the protoplasm assumes a more or less spherical condition .
Temporary deprivation of oxygen in a cell showing circulation induces a simplification in the arrangement of the protoplasmic strands .
In the leaf cells of Elodea for example the circulation may occasionally pass over into rotation .
After the streaming in plasmodia has been restored by the introduction of the necessary oxygen pressure it ceases again in a very short time .
The movement in fact can be maintained only by constant small additions to the oxygen pressure .
This is not caused by the consumption of the oxygen in the immediate neighbourhood .
Amoeboid movements continue in an atmosphere of hydrogen for some time after the streaming has ceased .
After ciliary movement is arrested in any healthy infusorian by the absence of oxygen the organism soon begins to disintegrate .
The introduction of an oxygen pressure of about 1 mm. is sufficient to arrest disintegration and restore ciliary movement , provided the breaking up has not proceeded too far .
The growth of the plant and the streaming of protoplasm in the active cells thereof appear to be parallel phenomena , streaming , or at least the power of very rapidly assuming the streaming movements , being possessed by the parenchyma and probably the phloem of plants so long as they continue to grow in an atmosphere of hydrogen .
Inability on the part of the protoplasm to continue its movements seems to be always associated with total cessation of growth .

