4 .
" On the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
" By J. P. Joule , Cor. Associate R. Acad. Sciences , Turin , &amp;c. Communicated by M. Faraday , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Foreign Memb. Acad. of Sciences , Paris , &amp;c. After passing in review the experimental researches of Rumford , Davy , Dulong , Faraday , and others who have successively discovered facts tending to prove that heat is not a substance , but a mode of force , the author mentions the papers he has already communicated to the Royal Society , and published in the Philosophical Magazine , in which he has endeavoured to show that in the production of heat by the expenditure of force , and vice versa , in the production of force by the expenditure of heat , a constant relation always subsists between the two .
This relation he denominates the " Mechanical Equivalent of Heat , " and the object of the present paper is to advance fresh proofs of its existence , and to give to it the numerical accuracy requisite to fit it as a starting-point for further inquiries .
In carrying out the above design , the author has determined the relation of work done to heat produced in the cases of the friction,1st , of water ; 2nd , of mercury ; and 3rd , of cast iron .
In the experiments on the friction of the fluids , the liquid was contained in a covered cylindrical vessel of copper or iron , and the agitation was effected by vanes of brass or iron , fixed to a vertical axis revolving in the centre of the vessel , whilst fixed vanes prevented the liquid being whirled in the direction of rotation .
In the experiments on the friction of solids , a disc of cast iron was rotated against another disc of cast iron pressed against it ; the whole being immersed in a cast-iron vessel filled with mercury .
The force expended was measured by the descent of the weights employed in rotating the apparatus ; and great care was taken to correct it for the friction of the axes of the pullies employed , &amp;c. The heat evolved by the friction was measured by exact thermometers , and very laborious precautions were taken in order to eliminate the effects of radiation or conduction of heat to and from the surrounding atmosphere .
The corrected thermometric effect was then reduced to a known capacity for heat , by means of extensive series of experiments made in order to ascertain the specific heat of the materials in which the thermometric effect was observed .
X In this way the number of units of work , estimated in pounds one foot high , required to be done in order to develope one degree Fahr. in one pound of water taken at about 50 ?
, was found to be as follows:772'692 from friction of water , a mean of 40 experiments .
774'083 from friction of mercury , a mean of 50 experiments .
774*987 from friction of cast iron , a mean of 20 experiments .

