72 Dr. W. Haacke .
The Marsupial Ovum , the [ Jan. 8 , ordinary fermentative fibrin formation , that fibrin may be deposited from blood by simple physical means , without any ferment process ; for this new substance becomes , as I have stated , true fibrin , and yet the plasma does not contain ferment .
Possibly this mode of fibrin formation is of importance in the formation of a thrombus .
The peculiar microscopical characters should also be noted , as possibly affording an explanation of the observations made by Osier , Bizzozero , Hayem , and others .
I refer of course to the granules , Blut-plattchen , hsematoblasts , described by these authors .
As I am actively engaged on this subject , and as I hope before long to produce a complete account of my researches on the coagulation of the blood , I have purposely confined myself to the briefest outlines .
VI .
On the Marsupial Ovum , the Mammary Pouch , and the Male Milk Glands of Echidna hystrix .
" By WlLHELM Haacke , Ph. D. , Museum Director to the Public Library , Museum , and Art Gallery of South Australia , Adelaide , and late Assistant Director to the Zoological Institute , Jena .
Communicated by the President .
Received November 12 , 1884 .
On the 3rd of August , 1884 , a number of living specimens of Echidna hystrix were brought to Adelaide from Kangaroo Island , where they had been captured some days previously .
I was unable to procure more of them than two , a male and a female , as the others had been disposed of before I heard of them .
But those two afforded me the good fortune of making a discovery that , in our days , perhaps no naturalist would have expected to make .
I found e99 in the mammary pouch of the female , and was thus enabled to prove that Echidna is really an oviparous mammal .
This discovery was made on the 25th of August ; it was announced , and the egg was exhibited at the meeting of the Royal Society of South Australia on the 2nd of September ; the scientific society referred to being the first one on record , the members of which had an opportunity of examining an egg laid by one of the Monotremata .
On September 14th I killed and dissected the female Echidna that had laid the egg .
Neither the pouch nor the oviducts nor the uterus contained any more ova , but all the female organs were well developed .
Only the right ovary contained what evidently was a corpus luteum , but there was only one .
This corpus luteum deserved its name , as it was orange coloured instead of having a pale fleshy tint as is the case with the ovisacs still containing undeveloped ovula ; it was not quite so large and round as the largest of the ovisacs .
1885.J Mammary Pouch , fie .
, of Echidna hystrix .
The Echidna egg , when taken out of its mother 's pouch , unfortunately burst , and it was found to be almost wholly decomposed inside .
The mother having been worried by being captured and during captivity accounts for the state the egg was found in .
As the shell of the egg broke so soon I am unable to give the egg 's dimensions as accurately as could be desired ; however , I think I am nearly correct in stating its length as 15 m.m. , and its width as 13 mm. ; it will thus be seen that the egg is nearly globular in shape .
In a preliminary notice to the " Zoologischer Anzeiger " the dimensions given are somewhat incorrect .
The shell of the egg was parchment-like , like that of the eggs of many reptiles .
Its outer surface was considerably smoother than the inner one .
Its thickness was about ^ mm. The inner surface of the egg-shell was covered with a loose membrane which on microscopical examination showed a network of what I supposed to be blood-vessels ; no other trace of an embryo could be discovered .
It will have been observed already that I speak of one " mammary pouch " or " marsupium " only , whereas Professor Owen described as pouches two semilunular fossae , at the fundi of which he found the orifices of the mammary glands ( " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 155 ) .
But as the mammary pouch serves at one period as an incubator for the " marsupial ovum , " it must at least at this time have a shape enabling it to undertake this function .
Accordingly , we find in my specimen one deep pouch large enough to hold , although not wholly to conceal , a gentleman 's watch , having its fundus in the median plane of the body towards the cloaca , and running out into shallower fossse towards the mammary areolae , beyond which towards the anterior end of the body it gradually disappears .
The skin forming the pouch is thinner than that of the rest of the ventral integument , and the pouch and its lips are covered more thinly with hair , the latter being shorter , however , and standing thicker on the mammary areolae , where very conspicuous tufts of hair are easily to be observed .
Although the marsupial integument is devoid of subcutaneous muscles , the animal can considerably modify the shape of the pouch , probably by the surrounding integumentary muscles .
Quite recently Professor Gegenbaur ( " Morphologischer Jahrbueh , " 1884 ) examined two adult females of Echidna setosa for the existence of mammary pouches , but without success .
He , therefore , inclines to think that the pouches are only periodically developed organs .
Although I have not sufficient evidence to prove this supposition , I believe it is the correct one ; how could the statements of Professor Owen , of Professor Gegenbaur , and of myself otherwise be reconciled ?
I believe the pouch attains its greatest development during the time it serves as incubator for the egg , and it consists of a pair of semi74 The Marsupial Ovum , #c .
, of Echidna hystrix .
[ Jan. 8 , annular fossae during the period the mother suckles her progeny , disappearing afterwards altogether .
The examination of two male Echidnce which I had an opportunity to carry out during September led me to what I believe is another new discovery .
Respecting the mammary glands of Omithorhynchus Professor Owen ( " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 122,1832 ) says :\#151 ; " In the male both Dr. Knox and Professor Meckel have been unable to detect these glands , and after a careful scrutiny with the same view in a well preserved specimen of that sex , I have not succeeded in detecting more than a few minute lobules occupying a space of about four lines in situations corresponding to those in the female , but the nature of which , from the total absence of corresponding foramina on the external sm*face of the integument , may still be doubted .
" Furthermore , in the " Zoological Record " for 1876 I read:\#151 ; " 0 .
Creighton suggests that the glandula femoralis , which opens by a long duct on the spurs of the male in Ornithorhynchus and , may prove to be the homologue of the mammary gland of the female .
" " J. Anat .
Phys. , " xi , pp. 29-31 .
This latter quotation of a certainly original suggestion shows that up to the end of 1876 nothing could have been known about the unmistakable homologue of the mammary gland of the female which 1 recently discovered in two male Echidnce , and I am not aware that any new facts to elucidate this question have been published up to the present time .
I was , therefore , not a little surprised to find in the two male Echidnce I examined , in situations corresponding to those in the female , similar tufts of short hair quite as plain as those indicative of the mammary areolae in my female .
On the animals being skinned , I found without any difficulty rudimentary mammary glands .
In the largest of my two specimens the one mammary gland forms a mass about 8 mm. long by 4 mm. wide , the lobules being about 2 mm. long .
The other gland is a little larger .
The glands are built after the same plan as the female glands , and contain a considerable number of lobules .
My anatomical preparations and the Echidna egg discovered by me will remain in the Adelaide Museum .
In conclusion , I should not forget to mention that I am aware of Mr. W. H. Caldwell 's discovery of the oviparity of the Monotremata , made about the same time as it seems at which my discovery was made , and that the British Association at their Montreal meeting received the information of Mr. Caldwell 's discovery about the same date at which my Echidna egg was exhibited at a meeting of the Royal Society of South Australia .
But this is all I know at present about Mr. Caldwell 's discovery .

