XII .
" Observations of the Total Solar Eclipse of August 13 , 1868 .
" By Captain D. RENNOLDSON .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES .
Received October 30 , 1868 .
( Copy. .
) From Captain D. Rennoldson .
" Peninsular and Oriental Company , Bombay , 22nd August 1868 .
D EAR SIR , -I enclose you a sketch of the eclipse seen on board the * This and the following three communications were transmitted by the Directors of the Peninsular andi Oriental Steam Navigation Company .
125 'Rangoon ' on the morning of the 18th inst .
The ship was at that time on the central line , viz. in lat. 15ยง 42 ' N. , long .
590 15 ' E. " The total eclipse lasted 4 ' 8 " .
The sketch shows what was seen by a large number of persons .
In observing with the spectroscope , I saw what none of the others could see with their glasses , viz. two prominences on the right limb of the moon ( showing in the spectroscope to the left ) of a yellow flame-colour , immediately opposite to the red ones , the whole forming a square , with the moon in the centre , showing out like a mass of rock .
'T'he colour of the corona , as seen through the prism , was red , a yellowish green , blue , and violet , the violet the brightest till the middle of the eclipse , when the red became ilumpyn and showed brighter .
" The spectrum from the mioon cut thirough the centre of this , but very fa int , the red thrown out with a curve .
" The motion of the ship was so great it was impossible to get minute observations ; so much haze and flying cloud , only Venus and one other star could be seen .
" c I return the spectroscope , and am only sorry I could not make more use of it .
" I am , &amp;c. , ( Signed ) " D. RENNOLDSON , " Commander S. S. ' Rangoon .
' Capt. HenryF , Superintendent P. O0 .
S. N. C. , Bombay .
[ This letter was accompanied by four coloured sketches of the proninences and corona .
Of these No. 1 shows a small low prominence extending from about azimuth 144 ?
to 150 ?
, azimuths being measured in the direction of the motion of the hands of a watch , round the centre of the moon 's disk , from the highest point , and another low prominence from azimuth 160 ?
to 180 ? .
No. 2 shows a lofty prominence at azimuth 198 ?
, curved in the upper part , with the concavity turned in the direction of increasing azimuth , and a low prominence from azimuth 332 ?
to 345 ? .
No. 3 shows the long prominence at azimuth 202 ?
, and the upper prominence at azimuth 320 ?
to 338 ? .
No. 4 shows the long prominence , reduced in height , at azimuth 212 ?
, and the upper prominence at azimuth 230 ?
to 2550 .
The figures are thus described .
] No. 1 .
A small red flame or protuberance on the right-hand lower corner of the moon , visible for a few seconds before the sun was totally eclipsed ; disappeared a few seconds after .
No. 2 .
1-"1 aifer commencement of total eclipse .
A large red flame of about 5 ' of arc on lower left-hand corner , and a red flame or blotch on upperleft hand -both visible from commrencementof totality , andverybright .
No. 3 .
3"i after commencement .
The long red flame rather shorter , and the upper one increased in size .
No. 4 .
At reappearance of sun 's upper limb the upper protuberance disappeared ; the lower one was visible for about 10 ' after , about half its former size .

