Observations on the Structure , and Mode of Growth , of the grinding Teeth of the Wild Boar , and Animal incognitum .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 7 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 319 .
] The author on a former occasion laid before the Society an account of certain peculiarities in the growth of the grinding teeth of the Sus aethiopicus , and pointed out the similarity of their structure to that of the elephant .
Having since discovered that a like resemblance extends also to the dentition of the wild boar , though in a less degree , and at a later period of life , he " is pleased to communicate to the Society , in his present paper , some further remarks on this curious subject .
We here learn , that in the species of the Sus , the first or temporary grinders are sixteen in number ; viz. four in each side of the upper , and as many in the under jaw ; that these are shed in the usual manner ; and that their places are supplied by larger teeth , rising from the substance of the jaw , immediately under the old ones ; that before these first teeth are shed , one of the more permanent grinders is formed in the posterior part of each jaw , which , although it be in its place with the first set , is yet to be considered as belonging to the second ; that besides these five teeth , the rudiments of a sixth are formed in each jaw , which afterwards grows larger than the preceding ones , the jaw increasing in size , so as to make room for this as the posterior grinder ; that this tooth , when perfect , is double the size of the other grinders , its masticating surface having eight fangs , -so that it very much resembles two large grinding teeth incorporated into one ; that , in time , the rudiments of a seventh tooth appear in each jaw , but that the further progress of these could not be observed , none of the specimens the author has had opportunities of inspecting , appearing to be more than seven years old .
Mr. Home proceeds next to observe , that the elephant , the Sus sethiopicus , and the wild boar , are the only recent animals in which he has hitherto met with so extensive a masticating surface of the grinding teeth ; the human species only excepted , in which the mode of dentition is somewhat upon the same principle as that of the wild boar , with this difference , that the hindmost teeth , called , from the late period of life at which they cut the gum , Dentes Sapientiae , do not exceed the others in size , and have often not sufficient room in the jaw to come into their regular place .
A conjecture is hence derived , that when the period of man 's life was longer than it is at present , the growth of the posterior part of the jaw was continued for a greater length of time , so as not only to make room for the present , but perhaps also to admit of a succession of a still greater number of additional grinders .
Upon comparing the grinders of the boar with the large fossil teeth found on the banks of the Ohio , they were found so much alike , both in their external appearance and internal structure , as to render it more than probable that they are teeth of the same kind , only differing in size .
Not so , however , those of the fossil skeleton some time since found in South America , and described by M. Cuvier .
These were found so unlike those of the boar , or the above-mentioned incognitum , as to leave no doubt of its being an animal of a different genus .
From the progressive mode of dentition above described , it is inferred , that the animals to which it appears to be peculiar , have by nature been intended for great longevity .
This we know to be the case in the elephant : and though opportunities have not yet offered for ascertaining the term of life of the wild boar , some quotations from ancient authors are here adduced , which indicate that boars of enormous size have at different times existed ; whence the probability is inferred that their bulk must have been the growth of many years .

