VIII .
An Account of a praeternatural Bony Substance found in the Cavity of the Thorax , communicated in a Letter to Dr. Rutty , by Mr. William Giffard , Surgeon .
ON Tuesday , May the 10th , 1726 , I opened the Body of a Person , who died the foregoing Day of a Peripneumonia ; in the right side of whose Thorax I found an osseous Substance about the fourth of an Inch thick , six Inches long , and three broad , extending it self under the third , fourth , fifth and sixth Ribs , closely and strongly connected to the Periosteum of the Ribs , and the Tunica propria of the inner Intercostal Muscles , by Fibres which shot from a strong and thick intervening Membrane , which closely adhered to its outer Surface or Back , and was continued over its inner likewise , thereby forming a Capsula for this praeternatural Substance .
Its upper Edge lay immediately below , and was contiguous to that Part of the Ribs , where they become cartilaginous : The Membrane that adhered to , and covered it , continued thick some distance from it , and gradually grew thinner , and was at length lost in the Pleura ; from whence I judged this extraneous Body to have been formed between the two Lamellae of that Membrane .
The Lungs so strongly adhered to its Inside , that upon separating them , part remained to it : Upon cutting into which , I observed all the Cells stuffed with a thin , but somewhat digested Pus .
Upon sarther Enquiry , I found on the same side , towards the Back , another Substance , but perfectly Bone , invested as the former , with a strong and thick Membrane bran , and by the Fibres which shot from it , tied to the Body of the Vertebrae , and the fourth , fifth , sixth and seventh Ribs , and Intercostal Muscles .
Its Back or Outside was convex , agreeable to the concave Surface of the Ribs , which had made Indentations on that part of it where they pressed : Its Inside was concave as the Ribs ; the right Lobe of the Lungs strongly adhered , part of which for that reason remained to it after Separation : Its Length was about seven Inches , Breadth about three from Edge to Edge : Its Thickness , in some parts a third , in others a fourth of an Inch .
It had , as the former , a thick Membrane running from it , which gradually thinning was at length lost in the Pleura ; from whence I judge this extraneous Substance to have been formed as the forementioned .
Since Mr. Giffard has not inserted the Particulars of this Gentleman 's Indisposition , I shall add , that upon Inquiry , I have since been informed , that he was troubled for some Years with a short Cough , which latterly was accompanied with a difficulty of Breathing , and great Labour in Inspiration ; and some time after , with a Weight and Pain on the right Side ; which Symptoms increasing more and more , brought on the Peripneumonia , of which he died in a few Days .
The Rise and Succession of those different Symptoms proceed so naturally from the Formation and Growth of this praeternatural Body , as well as the particular part of the Thorax where it was lodged , that it is entirely needless to say any thing more upon them .
W. RUTTY .

