]\gt ; 1870 .
] The Earl of Rosse on Lunar-Heat Radiation .
9 a press of other work precluded them from comparison with the instrument ( standard ) at Kew Observatory .
After in spection of the observations , you may be good enough to consider the desirability of sending me a third actinometer of the same kind , due comparison being first made at Kew .
whereby the relation between the instrument at the Observatory ( Kew ) and those sent out to me by the Royal Society may be established .
XV .
" " On the Radiation of Heat from the Moon.\mdash ; No. II.'2 By the EARL or F.R.S. Received June 1870 .
In a former communication to the Royal Society I gave a short account of some experiments on the radiation of heat from the moon , made with the three-foot reflector at Parsonstown , the season of 1868-1869 .
I then showed : 1st .
That the moon 's heat can be detected with certainty at any time between the first and quarter , and that , as far as could be ascertained from so imperfect a series of observations , the increase and decrease of her heat , with her seems to be proportional to the increase decrease of her light , as deduced by calculation* .
ndly .
That a much smaller percentage of lunar than of solar rays is transmitted by a plate of glass , and we therefore infer that a large portion of the rays of high refrangibility , which reitch the moon from the sun , do not at once leave the moou 's surface , but are first absorbed , raise the temperature of the surface , and afterwards leave it as heat-rays oflow refrangibility .
rdly .
That , neglecting the effect of want of transparency in our atmosphere , and , in the absence of any definite information on the subject , that the radiating-power of the moon 's surface is equal to that of a blackened tin vessel filled with water , the lunar surface passes through a range of F. of temperature ; consequently the actual range is probably considerably more .
thy .
The propol'tion between the intensity of sunlight and moonlight , and between the heat which comes from the sun and from the moon , as deduced from those observations , crreed as nearly as could be expected with the values found by independent methods , and for this reason might be considered the more reliable .
During the past season these observations have been continued , but much time has been spent in trying various modifications of the apparatus , and a satisfactory comparison of observations made on different nights , under ditferent circumstances .
has been impossible ; however , by more numerous and more complete experiments , made aIternntely with and without an inter* See the Proceedings of the Boyal Society , No. 112 , 1869 , page 439 .
1,0 The Earl of Rosse on Lunar-Heat Radiation .
June posed plate of glass , the second conclusion arrived at the previous season has been to a great extent conlirmed .
The following Table gives the values found for the percentage of the moon 's heat which passes through glass:\mdash ; Mean The same plate of glass which 1vas used in I. and II .
on April 15th , and the experiments on the two following nights , was tested for the solar rays , and the following values of the percentage of heat transmitted were obtained : \mdash ; The piece of glass used on the other occasions , instead of being placed at six or eight inches from the pile , laid against the eud of the protecting cone , or about half an inch from the face of the pile .
When was placed in this position and tested for solar rays , an increase of deviation in the proportion of 11 to 1 obtained , to the " " bottling up\ldquo ; of the sun 's rays as in an ordinary greenhouse , and the keeping off of currents of air .
It seems therefore to be clearly proved that there is a remarkable difference between the sun 's the moon 's hent in regard to their power of passing through glass .
The amount tratlsmitted varies from night to night , and in the later observations value was gen larger than in the earlier ones .
Possibly this may have arisen from the formation of a 1870 .
] The Earl of Rosse on Lunar-Heat Radiation .
slight and imperceptible film of moisture on the lrface of the glass , which was much more unlikely to for1n during the much shorter period* of exposure to the night air in the later observations .
The experiment made previous season to determine the ratio between the -power of the moon and of the sun was repeated with more care , and the value found , taking what appeared to be the most pro- bable mean heating-power of full moon , as determined on various was the of light transmitted by glass Do .
do .
of sun 's heat Do .
do .
of moon 's }leat Do .
do .
of heat from a body at 18 F. If and represent respectively the percentage of dark and luminous rays prcsent in the moon 's radiant heat , and the qlantities for the sun 's radinnt we have and ; In all the foregoing experiments on lunar radiation the quantity measured by the thermopile was the difference between the radiation from the circlc of sky containing the moon 's disk and that from a circle of sky of equal diameter not the moon 's disk ; lve have obtained no inform tion in reference to the absolute temperature of either the or the sky .
The following experiment was ereforc made with the of to connect the radiation of the sky with thnt of a body of temperature , iation due to each degree ( Fahrenheit ) difference of temperature between a blackened tin vessel hot water and subtending a given gle at the pile and a similar vessel colder water was first ascertained ; then a similar tion of that due to the difference of radiation from one of these vessels , and from a portion of sky of equal diameter , was made .
The following was the resuIt:\mdash ; *About 1 minutes in place of 30 to minutes .
All these , except the firsb , were determined by experiment for the specimcn of glass employed .
The Earl of Rosse on Lunar-Heat Radiation .
[ June 16 , atedof partof sofmined eIdiff tackiSky hazyand t If the temperature of space be really as low as is supposed , this resuIt seems to indicate considerable opacity of our atmosphere for heat-rays of low refrangibility .
The ever varying transparency of our atmosphere has baen found to be a very serious ; but the much greater steadiness of the needle during the later experiments ( the mean error of the last few nights ' observations having been from two to three and a half per cent. only of the whole deviation* ) encourages ils with the hope that , by taking advantage of favourable moments , and measuring the moon 's light simuItaneously with her heat , more lrate iformation on this subject may soon be acquired .
The observations were examined with the view of ascertaining how far the heating-power of the moon 's rays varies with her altitude .
Owing to the interference of clouds , and the limited range of aItitude within which the observations were made , it is hardly worth while to give the results in detail ; however , I may just say that the heating.power of the moon 's rays ears to diminish with her altitude only about one-third as fast as the intensity of the solar chemical rays , as ascertained by Roscoe and Thorpe .
Au attempt made to ascertain , by comparing two ements of the moon 's light at different altitudes with two corresponding measurements of her heat , whether our ntmosphere intercepts the heat-rays to a greater extent than the luminous rays .
It was found that while the light was diminished lvith the altitude in the proportion of about 3 to 1 , the heat was diminished in the proportion of about 5 to 1 .
In consequence , however , of much of the moon 's light and heat being intercepted by hazy clouds , or condensed vapour , at the lower altitude , the experiment inconclusive as to the effect of a transparent atmosphere on the dark rays of heat .
The accompanying diagram shows the proportion between the amount of lunar heat found on val'ious nights at various ages of the moon .
There appears to be a general accordance between the variation of her radiant heat with her and the corresponding amount of her light as deduced by calculation .
*During the experiments of the previous season the mean error varied between 27 per cent. and 85 per cent. or more .
1870 .
] The Earl of Rosse on Lunar-Heat Radiation .
As far as we can judge from so few and imperfect experiments .
the maximum of heat seems to be a little after full moon .
14 Mr. W. H. L. Russell on Linear Differential Equations .
[ June Subjoined is a Table giving the dates of the various observations , with the reference numbers corresponding to those on the diagram , and with remarks on the state of the sky .
XVI .
On Linear Differential Equations.\ldquo ; \mdash ; No. .
By W. H. L. RU SSELL , F.R.S. Received June 1870 .
The integrals obtained in ] paper on subject were deduced by the same process which afforded the determinants in the first paper .
It is obvious that these integrals could be found by a more dlreet lnvestlg tion .
This is what I am now going to attempt .
It will be found moreover that the present method will have the advantage of the ambiguities arising from the existence of common ftctors in the aIgebraical coefficient of highest differential , the ntor of the exponential in the solution .
It will also be found to lead us --o certain ulterlor results .
Let us take the differenti$l equntion Let us now put in this equation We shall easily see that it is impossible for the exponent .
to

