1877 .
] On the Growth and Variability of Madreporaria .
133 aneously with the dynamical expansion and masks its true amount .
This s divisible into high and low temperature contraction .
[ Compare figs. l\lt ; 2 .
The presence of a cooling expansion or crystallization , which .omes in during the dynamical contraction and masks its true amount .
3 .
These effects , due to crystallization and decrystallization , are the causes of the so-called kicks , or temporary contractions and expansions , which occur during the heating and cooling of the steel .
4 .
That the low-temperature contraction and cooling expansion are due fco decrystallization and crystallization which occur during the acts of beating and cooling , while the kicks themselves are simply the thermal effects associated with these changes , and are proportionate to their extent .
5 .
That protracted annealing ( that is , extremely slow cooling ) brings about molecular separation of the carbon and iron ; and steel in such a state contracts greatly when high temperatures are reached , producing the contraction returns seen at the end of the heating , and which are due to the condensation produced by the recombination of the carbon and iron .
Steels in this state are less susceptible to cooling-expansion ( crystallization ) , and therefore to low-temperature contraction on subsequent heating .
[ Vide fig. 5 .
] EXPLANATION OF THE WOODCUT .
Fig. 1 .
Commercial steel wire .
First heating .
Fig. 2 .
Do .
do .
Second heating .
Fig. 3 .
Air-hardened wire .
Fig. 4 .
Water-hardened wire .
Fig. 5 .
Annealed steel wire .
High-temperature contraction .
Contraction returns .
N.B.\#151 ; In each figure the upper curve refers to the heating- , the lower to the cooling-effect .
II .
" On the Rapidity of Growth and Variability of some Madreporaria on an Atlantic Cable , with remarks upon the rate of accumulation of Foraminiferal Deposits/ ' By Prof. P. Martin Duncan , F.R.S. , Pres. Geol .
Soc. Received March 15 , 1877 .
A telegraph-cable was laid off the north-west of Spain in 1870 , and a portion of it was recovered in 1876 , in long .
9 ' 4 ' W. and lat. 44 ' 6 N. The depth from which the recovered portion came was from 522 to 550 fathoms ; the ground was conglomeratic , and there was a deposit there of sticky foraminiferal mud .
Much coral growth had occurred on the cable , and when it was fished up some living and dead forms , together with Echini , Pectens , and mud , came up from off the surrounding sea-floor .
The growth on the cable consisted of numerous individuals of Prof. P. M. Duncan on the Growth and [ Apr. 12 , phyllum Crista-Galli of different sizes and of many bush-shaped coralla of Lophohelia prolifer a , var .
gracilis ; there were also small masses of Solenosmilia variabilis ( nobis ) , a new Amphihelia , and a specimen of Caryophyllia cylindracea ( Reuss ) , which were not attached , but which must have been fixed close by to stones .
As the date of the sinking of the cable was known , and as six years had elapsed , it was possible to estimate the rapidity of the growth of the coral on it , and also to come to some more or less satisfactory conclusions regarding the rate of the deposit of the foraminiferal ooze in that situation .
Moreover a glance at the numerous specimens showed that they presented variations and abnormalities of structure well worthy of examination , and which might relate to the inadvisability of retaining some of the specific and generic determinations in the ancient and recent coral faunas .
The height of the tallest* Desmophyllu taken from the top of the cable , to which its base is strongly adherent , is If inch .
It is a fine and well-grown individual , being If inch in its calicular length , and its hard part weighs f oz. There are no indications of ooze having covered the base , and the granulation of the basal surface is perfect and free from any evidence of erosion .
The smallest specimen found on the cable has its calicular edge rather on one side and oblique , and it is of an inch above the attached base .
It shows no trace of ooze ; the other specimens , intermediate in size , usually present an excessively broad base below the peduncle , and in some it extends for nearly | inch on all sides .
It consists of a layer of carbonate of lime , granular above and attached below to the outer coating of the cable .
Stunted bush-shaped masses of Lophohelia adhered by broad bases to the cable , and extended along it for many inches .
The eorallites composing the masses were crowded together to the height of an inch from the cable , and a few reached upwards about f of an inch above the rest .
Some had grown up obliquely , and others had their calices turned downwards , so that their margins were not -jL of au inch from the cable .
They must have always been above the ooze .
G-emmation appears to have occurred four times in the tallest corallites , commencing on the parent when it attained a certain size ; probably the parent growth occupied one year ; and there were four consecutive yearly buddings .
From these details it may be gleaned that the upward and general rate of coral growth at 550 fathoms is rapid in relation to that noticed in Europe in the same family in shallower water .
In height the growth amounts to !
a minimum of 0-29 inch in the year , and in mass it is very considerable .
1 The amount of sedimentary deposit , consisting of the tests of Forami-nifera , sponge-spicules , and minute particles of siliceous minerals , has been * The Desmopkylla and Lophohelice are essentially oceanic deep-sea corals ; they have none of the exotheca which distinguishes the rapidly growing littoral reef-building forms f 1877 .
] Variability of some nappreciable on the cable during six years .
A few Foraminifera in revices in the bases of a few specimens are the only signs of its presence , gut that there was plenty of sticky ooze close by is evident ; for some vas brought up by the apparatus , and it had got into parts of the calices )f some of the living corals .
Moreover a mass of conglomerate which vas brought up , and which consisted of water-worn gneiss boulders cemented together , had some of the mud entangled in it ; and most of the .alices of the dead corals which were brought up at the same time , but which were not attached to the cable , contained a small quantity of fo-raminiferal and siliceous matter .
It is possible that the motion of the tentacles and of the cilia of the corals prevented the accumulation of sediment in their neighbourhood ; out the tall peduncles of some of the would place their calices far out of the way of matter collecting on the base .
Moreover die part of the cable on which the coral grew may have been laid on masses of stone above the level of the deposit .
But the facts that the calices of the living Amphihelicibrought up , and which was not growing on the cable , contained no deposit , and that the dead Solenosmilia and a short Caryophyllia , neighbours to the form just noticed , had very small amounts in their calices , which had long been dead , and had been worn by Adilya penetrans and some Spongida , are of themselves sufficient to disprove a rapid rate of accumulation .
The presence of some most fragile outgrowths from the Lophohelian corals which supported and partly enclosed the stems of some Hydroida contraindicate the existence of a current sufficient to move sticky ooze .
It may be considered , then , that the deposit of minute sedimentary matter and of pelagic Foraminifera is excessively slow in its rate of accumulation at 550 fathoms on this part of the Atlantic floor , and that it is very much slower than the contemporaneous coral growth .
An examination of some of the deep-sea corals of the true gerina-ooze area will afford a corresponding observation ; and we may assume that in the White and Bed Chalks of England the Madreporaria grew vastly more quickly than the deposit accumulated which subsequently environed and overwhelmed them .
One of Lonsdale 's discoveries was that of an Amphihelian-looking mass from the Chalk of Gravesend* ; its bulk was considerable , and yet many of the calices were close to the base , and they were those of young buds .
Again , in the Bed Chalk the corals are often widely open and short and were probably very slow growers .
All these considerations tend to the impression that the chalk of old , whatever may have been its original nature , accumulated extremely slowly .
The variability of the specimens of Desmophyllum which were found on the cable is very great ; and in some instances it is sufficient to permit of a specific distinction being made according to the strict classificatory rules .
Doubtless had the specimens been separated , and * Suppl. to Brit. Boss .
Corals , Cretaceous , Palieont .
Soc. By P. M. Duncan .
136 On the Growth and Variability of Madreporaria .
[ Apr. ] 2 , had they been assumed to have come from different localities , new species would have been made of them .
Several specimens are very costulate , and there are crests to all the larger costae ; in some there are wart-like growths in those situations , and in these forms the calice is sometimes widely open , or very compressed , or normally slightly so at its orifice .
In at least one fourth of the specimens the shape of the corallum , instead of being subturbinate and compressed above the round pedicel , is tall and cylindrical ; and there are no costal ridges of any importance .
Moreover the size of the calices and septa varies in this series .
Some specimens , otherwise normal , have very broad basal expansions out of all proportion with the height .
But the most interesting variation is noticed in those specimens which have widely open calices and exsert septa ; for , added to these specific structures , are costal crests , ridges , processes , and root-like projections coming from the body , peduncle , and base .
These projections are either free at their end or are attached to some support ; sometimes the growths are in relation to the costal line , and in others they cannot be maintained to be so , and they are either smooth , granular , or like chagrin .
There is no epitheca on the coral , and the root-like projections are therefore growths of the ectoderm .
Some act as supports ; but most have been produced by the irritation of an Annelid , which , after boring out of the cable came in contact with the coral , which endeavoured more or less successfully to cover it up .
Those processes which are beyond the reach of Annelids and which act as supports singularly resemble those root-like growths which are of generic or specific importance in many groups of Madreporaria .
Flagellum , JRhizotrochus , Rhizophyllum , Omphyma , \amp ; c. are genera which possess such root-forming species .
But the root-like processes oiFlabellum have a higher physiological interest than those of ; for some finally separate the base of the coral from its attachment by their downward growth-pressure ; nevertheless the development of root-processes by the cable covering Desmophylla is suggestive and important , although some are morbid growths .
The cylindroid specimens would most probably be considered specifically distinct from the others were they found away from them or in strata .
They are very suggestive ; for in palaeontology the shape of the corallum , the contour of the calice , and the relative size of the septa are often considered to establish species ; and such genera as Trochocyathus , Tro-chosmilia , and Montlivaltia amongst Mesozoic corals , and and Zaphrentis amongst the Rugosa , teem with specific names which are not established on better grounds than that of the cylindroid Desmo-phyllum .
The Lophohdice on the cable present great bud variation ; and the young and old corallites are of many different shapes , from the turbinate to the tubular .
But the most important structural peculiarities are of two 377 .
] On Attraction and Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat .
137 indsfirst , the annelid growth has determined outgrowth of the coral hich has covered in the worm-tube ; and second , the establishment of )me Hydrozoa on the ectoderm of the coral has sometimes produced the urination of tubes of coral-structure which environ the stalk of the ( fender and form a useful support to it .
Finally it may be remarked that all the Madreporaria which were rought up with the cable from off this area have an unusual ornamentation .
I have to thank Sir James Anderson for the specimens and for the ietails of the recovery of the cable .
II .
" On Attraction and Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat " By Walter Noel Hartley , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. , King^s College , London .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 26,1877 .
In my first paper " On the presence of Liquid Carbon Dioxide in Mine-til Cavities " ( ' Journal of the Chemical Society/ February 1876 ) , I nentioned having noticed a remarkable repulsion of the bubbles in fluid-:avities when they were approached by a heated body .
I at first regarded hese movements as similar to those observed by Mr. Sang and Dr. Hunter ( Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , 1872-73 , p. 126 ) in cavities of Iceland spar ; but with reference to the position of the source of heat , I have since found that they occurred in quite the reverse lirection .
The motion noticed by Mr. Sang was a repulsion of the liquid ; that which I recorded was a repulsion of the gas by the heated body .
Here I may as well say that this refers to the real and not the apparent direction of the motion as seen under the microscope .
Professors Tait and Swan have shown ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. of Edinburgh , 1873-74 , p. 247 ) that the attraction of the bubble by a heated body is a natural effect if the liquid be of great volatility , in contact only with its own vapour , as would be the case if the cavity were filled with carbonic acid .
Distillation of the liquid would take place when one side of the bubble was heated ever so slightly above the temperature of the other , and condensation would occur on the cooler side .
This would occasion a movement of the bubble from the cold to the warm side of the cavity ; but it is not the original bubble being simply propelled .
Professor Tait assumes that the liquid in Mr. Sang 's specimens is carbonic acid , and applies this explanation .
This might well be the case , because the attracting pieces of metal used were but a very few degrees warmer than the specimens acted on ; but from other circumstances , some of which I propose giving in detail , I am of opinion that these were water-bubbles .
The attraction of a gas-bubble in a cavity containing liquid carbonic

