]\gt ; [ 587 ] XVI .
THE BAKERIAN LECTURE.\mdash ; On the Radiation of Heat from the Moon , the Law of its Absorption by our Atmosphere , and of its Variation in Amoumt with her Phases .
By the EARL 0F ROSSE , F.R. Received February 3 , \mdash ; Rcad March 27 , 1873 .
IN the years 1869 and 1870 I communicated to the Royal Society the results of a series of experiments made with the view of determining , if possible , the amount of radiant heat coming to the earth from the moon in various conditions of phase , and the nature of that heat as regards the average refrangibility of the rays .
Though mole successful than I had at first been led to expect , the imperfect accordance between many of the observations still left much to be desired , and the novelty and importance of the subject appeared sufficient to render it advisable to pursue the investigation with greater care and closer attention to details than had hitherto been deemed necessary .
Since the conclusion of the series of observations which form the subject of the second paper above referred to , nothing ( with the exception of a short series of observations in August and October 1870 , of which mention is made towaxds the end of this paper ) was done towards pursuing the subject till the of the following year ( 1871 ) , when the series of observations which form the subject of the present paper were commenced , the same apparatus ( only slightly modified ) being used and the same method of obseryation adopted ; but , with the view of obtaining an approximate value of the absorption of the moon 's heat in its passage our atmosphere , and of rendering possible the satisfactory comparison of observations made at different zenith-distances of the moon , the observations were in many cases carried on at at all possible zenith-distances on the same night , and the most favourable opportunities for observing the moon at very different zenith-distances in various conditions of the atmosphere were not lost .
Before proceeding further it may be well to mention the small changes in the appa- ratus already referred to .
The piles instead of being , as before , placed in two separate circuits or loops , united close to the terminals of the galvanometer , have , since the beginning of August 1870 , been placed in one and the same circuit , the position of the poles of the second pile relative to the galvanometer-circuit being , as before , the reverse of the first ; and further , to protect the piles more effectually from draughts of air , they and the small concave mirrors were enclosed in a box with glass*sides , that side next the large speculum being still ( unless otherwise specified ) left open .
The piles were single pairs of small cross section of the kind described in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' No. 122 , 1870 , * Of glass to enable the assistant to seo when tho moon 's image was central on each concave mirror .
DCCCLXXIl r pile was exposed to that an adjacent circle of sky .
The galvanometer was read off just before each motion of the telescope .
Thus the difference between two successive l.eadings of the galvanometer exhibited the heat-effect on double the scale that would have been possible one pile .
After three or four preliminary settings of the tele- scope had been made , to give the assul.ance that every thing was in working order and the needle of the galvanometer vibrating in equal arcs on each side of the zero , eleve\amp ; nacute ; l.eadings of the galvanometer , giving ten differences , were taken in succession .
The sidcreal time was noted and the altitude read off on a quadrant attached to the telescope , graduated to half degrees , and allowing the estimation of tenths .
As far as was at all compatible with the progress of the observations all cloud was avoided , and no readings were taken unless the sky near the moon was clear or very nearly so .
The zenith-distance the middle of each set of ten differences was obtained by a graphical process from the altitudes actually observed , and the arithmetical mean ( G ) of the differences was taken as the corresponding heat-effect .
These quantities , and others of which an explanation is given further on , are entered in the follow ing Table .
Journal of Observations and preliminaly Reductions .
We have : In column III .
the observed deviation of the needle .
In column .
the moon 's distance from the point directly opposite to the sun .
In column .
the logarithm of the factol .
for reducing the galvanometer-readings from tangent to arc , it being assumed that the latter was proportional to the heating- effect .
In columns VIII .
\amp ; IX .
the l.espective logarithms for reducing each set of l.eadings for change of phase and of the moon 's apparent semidiameter to what it would have been had the observation been made at the time and under the circumstances given in columns XI .
, XII .
, \amp ; XIII .
; so that we obtained the heating-effects ( given in column X. ) of the moon at various zenith-distances on night , independent of all other causes of variation .
The l.emaining columns require no explanation , beyond what will be found in the which follow the Table .
OF HEAT FROM TffE MOON .
589 TABLE .
* On March 24th , , the moon observed at an altitude of ; no trace of heat was perceptible .
Moon 's agc days , ] from full .
Observations were also on April { thd April 7 , 1871 ; but as they were mado under most unfavourable circumstances to test the effect of wind and hazc , they arc not included in abo journal .
TABLE , June 2.\mdash ; Full moon ; the moon passed clear of the earth 's shadow and penumbra .
, Dcccmbcr 26.\mdash ; Full moon ; using the ivcn at of the Appendix to the Almanac for 1836 , the somidimeter of the carth 's pcnumbra cqual to ( where ' is the moon 's horizontal parallax , the SU11 parallax , and the semidiameter ) , it will be folmd ut sidcrcal time the semidiameter of while the distance of the ceutrc of the Moon from ccntrc of shadow ; so that an immersion to the extent of only took lacc , but at the time of observation the moon clcar of pcnumbra .
OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
TABLE ( continued ) .
* 1872 , January 18.\mdash ; On an iron candle-holdcr stood near the galvanometer ; experiments made March 13 show , however , that it did not affcct the valuc of the readiogs it considcrabJy altcred the zero .
The scts at consisted of ve differcnccs ; but as these made under favourable circumstances , full ) has been to them .
nuary 20.\mdash ; The scale in .
from the mirror of galvanometer of at the usual distance of in .
; therefore the have been multiplied by , bnrely perccptible ) , very cloud of the Law of .
the Moon 's Radiant Heat in our Atmosphere .
As , apart from any priori consideration , an examination of the former observations had that the quantity of heat .
us from the moon was dependent upon zenith-distance , it was necessary that the whole of the new observations should be calefully examined in .
to determine the law of this dependence .
But since the moon 's phase and distance from the place of observation and from the sun 's centre are constantly changing , the vations had to be freed from the first two of these sources of change before they could be used .
the corrections dependent upon the zenith-distance .
The nccessal.y elements .
the corl.cctions were obtained as .
The moon 's farch24.\mdash ; The sky rathcr hazy , but the observations were ] taken dnring the clcarcr interl OF HEAT FROII THE MOON .
593 tabular place was taken from the Nautical Almanac for every hour of sidereal time over which the observations extended ; then the moon 's parallax was calculated , also for every bour , by the following approximate formulae where 's apparent right ascension , 's true right ascension , 's apparent declination , moon 's true declination , horizontal parallax , sidereal time , md where distance from centre of the earth , geocentric latitude .
From the apparent places so obtained the 's apparent elongation ( e ) from the oint opposite the sun was derived by the equation Dsin where 's declination , 's right ascension .
is evident that represents very neally the angular amount of the moon 's apparent lluminated phase .
A slight inaccuYacy arises from neglecting the angle at the suni in the plane triangle earth , sun .
moon .
The moon 's tabulal .
semidiameter and a Table of mentations gave her apparent semidiameter , .
Finally , the moon 's apparent altitude was taken from a Table of double entry calculated for the latitude of Birr Castle , to test , by its agreement with the readings of the quadrant , the accuracy of the calculations mentioned above .
In .
the absence of an exact knowledge of the law of variation of the moon 's radiant heat with her change of phase , that enunciated at page 439 , No. 112 of the 'Proceedings 's Spherical Astronomy , ' pagc 150 ( English cdition , 1865 ) .
This angle never exceeds 9 ' even at quadrature .
into the form of a factor if we assume , as was approximately the case , especially for the plarger readings , that the amplitudes were equally large on each side of the -point For if is the difference of two readings and the distance of the scale from the galvanometer , the correcting factor will be .
In our case , and the factor becomes corr . .
The values oflog corr .
( g ) are given in column for each observation .
The sum of , , and gives column corr the logarithm * There is a misprint in formula ( a ) at the place referred to ; it should have been Since the publication of that paper it has been found that , in his 'Photometria , ' had already made use of it in the form where mean " " albedo ' ' of moon 's surface , 's apparent semidiameter as seen at the moon , 's apparent semidiameter , brightness of an absolutely white plane illuminated by perpendicularly incident rays of the sun , brightness of an absolutely whitc plane similarly illuminated by the rays of the moon , elongation from the sun 's semidiameter as seen from the earth .
It appears rather doubtful whether this small correction ( which only amounts at most to of the whole heating-effect ) should have been made at all , as from subsequent experiment the deviations in different parts of the scale were found to be very nearly identical with the same effect ; in fact the difference less than the probable error of observation .
Strictly speaking this correction should hay been applied to each reading , not to the mean of a set of readings , as was done to save labour .
OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
595 of corrected for change of phase , change of distance , and for the variation of the values 0 the scale .
These corrected values of are now available for the determination of the law the extinction of the moon 's radiant heat in the earth 's atmosphere .
For this a graphic method , suggested by that employed by in his researches oncerning the extinction of stellar light , was made use of .
The night 's observations were rranged in order of zenith-distance , then from the ( corr .
) corresponding to the least -distance on any given night each other ( corr .
) of that night was subtracted .
logarithmic differences so obtained were then entered on a sheet of cross-lined paper ordinates , the zenith-distances being taken as abscissae ; a curve drawn through these oints gave what might be called the , reducing curve zenith-distance for that night .
4 second night 's observations were then treated in the same way , and the resulting curve noved up or down until it intersected the first night 's curye at the middle of their )verlapping parts .
A third curve corresponding to a third night was then drawn and made to as nearly as possible with the mean of the curves already laid down ; in this vay thirty-three curves representing the logal.ithmic differences of the moon 's radiant leat at different zenith-distances were laid down .
The mean of the differences in each degree of zenith-distance was now entered as a Joint at its corresponding mean zenith-distance on a separate sheet of paper , the number observations being indicated by short radiating lines , in the way often adopted for star nagnitudes , a simple dot representing a single observation .
The ordinates of a curve lrawn through or near these points gave a provisional Table for , or the logarithm that must be added to that of the reading at any zenith-distance to obtain the logarithm of -he reading as it would have been shown had the moon been in the zenith .
The Table fhus deduced for the extinction of the moon 's heat is here given in an abbreviated form .
Zen.-dist . .
0070 * die kcit dcr Fixsternc erster Gross nnd uber die Extinction des Lichtcs in der Atmosphare .
Nebst einem uber die keit der Son ichen mit Stcrncn , ubcr dio Licht reflectirendc Kraft der Planeten .
' Von LUDWIG .
Munich , lS52 .
OF HEIAT THE MOON .
TABLE ( continued ) .
These errors were now treated in the ingenious way employed by SEIDEL ( Unterlchungen , p. ) Table was formed in which the zenith-distance was the argument both horizontal and vertical columns ; the errors were now entered at both points of ltersection corresponding to the pairs of altitudes to which they belong .
When the lesser zenith-distance is the al.gument for the vertical column , the sign iven in the Table was retained , in the other was changed ; in this way all be errors come to stand on one side of the diagonal as they are in the Table , and on other side changed signs .
and zontal columns were now xamined to see whether one particular sign predominated in any part .
In fact the llowing corrections of the values of were found to be indicated:\mdash ; to the whole of the Table deduced from the new curve .
At the same time a small systematic error which had arisen from an oversight in the Table for was allowed for ; the error from this source might have been neglected , as it was only for , increasing to at .
These corrections being made , and the tabular quantities being slightly adjusted so as to make the differences run more regularly , the following definite Table for the extinction of the moon 's radiant heat in the atmosphere was obtained , where , as before , the argument is the true distance , and is the logarithmic factor for reducing to the zenith .
Corrected Table for reducing to the zenith .
OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
599 A comparison with SEIDEL'S Table*given below at once shows that the extinction of the moon 's radiant heat , although a very similar law to that for stellar light , is not so great at considerable zenith-distances .
At zenith-distance the difference is about one tenth of the whole amount On the Connexion between the Noon 's Phase and the amount of her Radiant lIeat .
The observations were now leduced to the zenith , and the mean zenith-values deduced from each , each observation having a weight apportioned to it inversely propor- tional to the number of which is the logarithm .
With the zenith-means and the extinction Table the values in column " " calc of the following were calculated , and from the differences between observation and calculation the probable elrol of each obsel.vation and of the -mean , , was deduced by the usual formulae .
These are in columns .
and The probable errors are of course based on the assumption that no constant source of error existed ; we shall , however , see further on that most probably large constant errors were present on many occasions .
* For the convenience of English readers we give SEIDEL'S Table for the extinction of in the atmosphere ( Untersuchungen , p. 43 ) ( for full title , scc note , p. 595 ) .
For the values of are imperceptible .
At p. 503 of the ' Abhandlungen der Math.-phys .
Class der .
Akademie der Wissenschaften , ' Yunich , Professor SEIDEL gives a new Table of based on seventeen years ' observations ; but it differs so little ( at most 1 per cent. ) from the Table here , that Professor SEIDEL himself , for the sake of uniformity , continued to make use of the Table only .
Where the difference between the Tables for and heat is greatest , Professor SEIDEL'S new Table lessens this difference by about one seventh part .
Note added Dec. 27 , 1873.\mdash ; Since writing the above , a possible way of for the difference between the heat-and light-extinction curves has been found in the circumstance that the former was obtained from observations on the moon , the latter from observations on the stars .
In the former case less loss would aris from bad definition at low altitudes than in the latter , as the greater part of the light and heat would be simply transferred from one part of the moon 's to another ; whereas in the latter case it would bc transferred from the star 's image to the sky round it , when it would only tend to lessen the contrast .
Consequently it docs not necessarily follow that the foregoing observations point to diffcrent laws for and THB EARL OF ROSSE ON THE RADIATION Beduction of observations to the zenith .
OF IIEAT FROM THE MOON .
TABLE ( continued ) .
TABLE ( continued ) .
TABLE ( continued ) .
TABLE ( continued ) .
TABLE ( continued ) .
TABLE ( continued ) .
TABLE ( continued ) .
VI .
89.4 89.3 'continu.ed ) .
OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
C03 TABLE ( continued ) .
Note.\mdash ; The notes , which are tho same as for the unreduced observations , be found at pp. The observations of each night are now represented by a quantity , so tha for the distance of the moon the earth and sun , they will be available for determining the rate of change of the nloon 's radiant heat phase .
In the following Table the values of are in order of Column I. the astronomical date , column II .
the apparent elongation from full * See column .
of the foregoing Table .
NDCCCLXXIII .
4 The linear distance of the moon from the sun is readily obtained from the earth 's radius-vector by the formula Moon 's distance from sun where is the vector , the moon 's equatorial horizontal parallax , and the moon 's elongation from full ; in our as we haVe adopted a mean value of so that nearly .
OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
C05 The values of were now laid down as ordinates with those of as abscissae , the being indicated on the plan previously mentioned .
A curve was then calefully drawn and l.ead off and then compared with the observations ; in this way small corrections for the curve were deduced , and finally the following able adopted as giving best representation of the obselvations .
( See also Plate XLVIII .
, A. ) Phase Table .
From this Table the numbers in column VIII .
wele taken out .
Column IX .
shows the difference between curve and observation ; and for the purpose of giving a better idea of the degree of agreement , the percentage elror is given in column X. The sum of is , and the number of , omitting the and the last , 1s 34 ; whence the mean percentage error of a ngle set of ten has been lated on the usual assumption that the errors are inversely proportional to the square root of the number of sets .
This mean error is per cent. , corresponding to a probable error of per cent. The average number of sets is ; this gives per cent. for the mean and per cent. for the probable error of a night 's observations ; a comparison of these numbers with column IX .
, however , shows that large constant errors were doubtless Table corresponding to those at pp. 589-592 heat .
OF JIEAT FROM TlfE M Journal and Reduction to zenith of observations 1 I exceptions , so small that they could not have been used with advantage in the construction of the altitude curve , nor , owing to alterations in the height of the directive magnet of the galvanometer , were they at once available for the determination of , or comparison with , the phase curve .
However , as they were made for the most part under vely favourable circumstances of weather , and as from their chiefly referring to the waning moon they are important as filling an all but vacant gap in the records of 1871-72 , they are introduced here , although out of their chronological order .
The particulars of the observations are arranged in nearly the same way as those already discussed , the only difference being that the sets taken with a plate of glass interposed are left in their original place in the journal .
As a matter of convenience , and on account of its greater accordance with fact , the Phase Table at p. 605 was used in place of LAMBERT'S formula the correction for the of phase .
The Table of used for reducing to the zenith .
In this way the quantities in column ( corr.)\ldquo ; were obtained .
Occasionally the time of observation was not noted , but it could generally be determined with sufficient accul.acy from the measured altitudes of the moon .
As has been already mentioned , some uncertainty exists as to the height at which the directive magnet was placed on some nights ; but as it was always used in one or other of two positions ( or inches ) , the directive force on the needle being as little as in one position as compared with unity in the other , little anxiety can arise as to the correctness of the assumptions made .
The following Tables contain the Journal of Observations and their reductions , which will be readily understood on comparison with those already given .
OF HEAT FROM THE UOON .
Journal of Observations and Preliminary Reductions .
Aug. 8.\mdash ; No mention of cloud .
the directive magnet was at in .
; the has already been reduced to what it would have been with the magnet at in .
See preceding .
This ana all SuDSequent experlments marked were made with the glass plate interposed . .
10.\mdash ; Sky more or less streaky all night .
The only available observations on this night were three sets , giving , and with the magnet at for which the sidereal time has adopted as best suiting the recorded altitudes .
S Aug. ll.\mdash ; The original readings were taken with the magnet at in .
; the proper reduction to in .
has been made .
Sky slightly streaky all this night .
Aug. 12.\mdash ; There is no mention of the height of the mag.net on this and tho following but as he observations were made with it at in .
on the 11th and 14th , it is assumed to hay been at the same height on the 12th and 13th .
The telescope not on the moon for about half a minute .
Aug. 13.\mdash ; Magnet at in .
, observations reduced to in .
Aug. 14.\mdash ; E.N.E. wind all night ; galvanometer very unstcady .
The magnet mentioned as being at in .
; observations reduced to in .
*Aug . .
wind all ; hazy ; the moon was orange-coloured when low .
No mention of the of the directive onet ; it is assumed to have been at in .
, as was the case on the following nlgnt . .
Galvanometer very unsteady . .
19.\mdash ; The scale was inches the galvanometer ; therefore the readings have been multiplied by to reduce them to the usual distance of the scale , and by to reduce them to a height of in .
of the directive magnet .
S Oct. 4.\mdash ; New spcculum used for the first time .
at in .
, observations reduced to in .
Apparently clear , but still a slight fog which makcs the moon 's image faint although still sharp .
Oct. 9 .
Magnet at in .
, observations reduced to in .
Oct. 10.\mdash ; 1Iagnet at in .
, observations reduced to in .
The single vary more than per cent. : OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
Observations without lass le V. 4 .
1 * The remarks will be found at pp. 609 and 610 .
Observations with glass plate Before these results compared with each other , it is necessary to examine into another source of uncertainty , which , however , as will be seen , can not only be got rid of , but even made to yield a most interesting result .
During the month of August an old and consequently rnished speculum was used ; this was replaced by one of great brilliancy before the observations of October were commenced .
Hence the readings taken in August are below , and those in October above what they would have been with a mirl.or of ordinal.y working quality .
Taking these facts into considel.ation , the observations were divided into two groups , according as they were made with the old or new speculum ; and by .
these groups with the Phase Table for , at p. 605 , the following values of speculum factors for reducing the observations to the standard .
of those years were obtained .
The weight which has been attached to the factor OF HEAT FROM TIE MOON .
of each day varies directly as the square roo the number of sets , and inversely as the reduction to the zenith , October 4th having only half on account of bad weather .
Observations without glass plate .
Speculum-factor .
Whence August speculum-factor without glass plate In the same .
Speculum-factor .
Oct. Whence October speculum-factor without lass plate These factors may also be deduced , though with less certainty , from the experiment .
with the glass plate for those elongations within the range of the observations of 1871-72 .
1870 .
Speculum-factor .
Aug. 8 Whence August speculum-factor with plate In the same 1870 .
Speculum-factor .
Oct. 4 Whence October speculum-factor with glass plate ; weight These four factols must be kept separate , because in 1870 the plate was ahvays * This ratio was used as tending to lessen the prepondcrance of any given day .
Combining the factors for experiments without glass plate , it appears that a new speculum rellccts say once and a half as much heat as the most tarnished one that would be considered serviceable .
( obs .
) is the zenith-value of the total heat for a mean distance of the sun and moon and an speculum ; is taiken the cve del.ived fro1n the results of 1871-72 ; is the ence between curve and ation , and is the percent- ence .
of the total heat-results cul.ve of 1871-72 are within such moderate limits , that , into consideration the way in which the speculum-factors from it , it does not appeal .
advisable to alter its course in ol.der to attempt still closer esentation of the whole of the obsel.vations .
Table iyes a summary of all the obseryations made with the glass tc infcrI)osed , during the ycars , and 1872 , of lvhich the preliminary leductions eady been given .
OF HEAT FRO31 THE MOON .
615 Glass-plate observations reduced to a meaJl distance of the Sun and Moon , and compared with the Phase-Curves .
( Sce also Plate XLVIII .
, Curve B. ) Phase Table for obseryations with glass plate .
( See Plate XLVIII .
, Curve B. ) \amp ; c. \amp ; C. whence and can be deduced .
In his researches on the sun 's radiant heat POUILLET assumed .
In accordance with this the values of for every degree to were calculated and constants and deduced .
It was then found that the values of were tolerably well represented , yet at the same time it was evident that or would fulfil the required conditions more accurately ; and in point of fact is very nearly the value that makes the outstanding errors in the representation of a minimum ; lessens the sum of the squares of the errors to an exten{altogether immatel.ial .
The ving al.e the 51 equations of the form ( 2 ) , where the coefficient of is cstc , livrc .
chap .
3 .
OF HEAT FROM TFIE MOON .
C17 \mdash ; 1 2 1 \mdash ; 2 \mdash ; 1 1 1 \mdash ; 2 \mdash ; 1 \mdash ; 1 2 2 \mdash ; 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 9 8 8 6 \mdash ; \mdash ; 10 15 20 23 24 logp - - 18 - 13 - 8 - - ; hence \mdash ; \mdash ; ; whence \mdash ; 10 .
If these values of and are substituted in the above fifty-one equatlons , the equations will be found to be satisfied , excepting the ( table\mdash ; calculation ) given on the of the page .
The smallness of these differences naturally leads us to regard the formula as trustworthy for those cil.cumstances under which it has hitherto been impossible to procure observations , and even for those cases whel.e they are altogether beyond our reach .
For taking the folnlula ( 1 ) , we have only to put orclcr to get or the zenith-effect of the moon 's heat ; and further , by .
the extreme case or the heat-effect supposing the atmosphele to be removed altogether* .
*Taking the moon 's ximum zcnith the earth 's surfacc at , we have as the maximum before her ray cnter our atmoqpherc .
OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
It will be remembered that the value for was obtained by comparison with SEIDEL'S results , based on the comparlson of observatlons of the of stars near the zenith with that of others at various altitudes .
Formula ( 1 ) now enables us to find this quantity independently of SEIDEL'S results ; for since is the logarithmic factor for reducing to the zenith it must become zero for , or have the new condition ; it is , however , , which must be added to all the values of and subtracted from in order to fulfil the above condition .
Simultaneous Observations the Noon 's Heat and Light during the Eclipse of ovember 14th , 1872 .
During the partial eclipse of the moon of November 14th , 1872 , an attempt was to ascertain whether or not the lunar surface required an appreciable time to acquire the temperature due to the action of the sun 's light shining on it at the moment .
Obviously a total eclipse would be a favourable time for determining this point ( at least for heat which has penetrated to a small depth only ) , as the tl.ansition from to darkness is so much more rapid than that caused by the moon 's rotation on axis ; but to the smallness of the eclipse ( there being little more obscuration than that due to the penumbra alone ) , the considerable decrease of the moon 's altitude towards the close of the eclipse , and still more to the uncertainty of the weather ( which us only a few glimpses now and of the moon ) , the results only go so far as to show that the heat was diminished during the eclipse in a rather greater proportion than the light .
The minimum for both heat and light occurred at or very neal* the middle of the eclipse .
The Tables , in which the columns correspond respectively to those with the same heading in the Tables already given , contain full particulars of the observations and their The moon 's light was measured with a photometer , with which , as is well known , the total light of the observed body is , coeteris ) , proportional to the square of the sine of the of the intensity-circle .
This reading is given in column I. ( see next ) .
This being borne in mind , the meaning of the other columns will be leadily understood .
The moon 's tabular semidiameter ' The moon 's adopted apparent semidiameter XfDCCCLXXUI .
4 OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
Four determinations made by Professor after his was engraved are here given , and two errors out the of two of Sir JOHN HERSCHEL'S observations ( caused by errors in the ' Cape Observations ' ) have been rectified .
The dotted line is Professor calculated curve , the ordinates of which have been increased in the ratio of to 1 , so as to make it as closely as possible with the On inspecting the diagram , it is at once apparent that the increase of the moon 's light in approaching the full moon is more rapid than that of her heat , so much so that ZoLLNER resorted to a cusped curve for its representation .
The introduction of additional observations , however , three of which are upper ones in elongations , and , would not only seem to indicate a necessity for lounding off .
the maximum of the light-curve , but also for placing it slightly before full moon , and thus it agree with the heat-curve in this remarkable feature .
Some uncertainty appears to arlse on account of the employment by ZoLLNER of a photometer in which , when used on the moon , the light has to travel.se a system of Nicol prisms ; but it does not appear clear in when azimuth the system was turned during each observation , and consequently it is not known whether the colrection due to this cause would diminish the departure of the heat- from the light-curve , or the reverse Attempt to compare the Noon 's Radiant Heat with that from terrestrial source .
The effect of the moon 's heat has hitherto been explessed in this paper on a purely arbitrary scale , namely by the differences of the readings of one and the same galvo.* Photometrische Untersuchungen , , note .
In accordance with the heading of the Table ( Phot .
Unt .
p. 198 ) the curve is kept within the limits of before and after full :noon .
Taking the extreme case , where the plane in which the sun , moon , and earth , and therefore the plane in which the moon 's light is polarized , parallel to the plane of reflection of the transparent plate of paralel glass in the photometer , the system of Nicols being supposed to be set with the principal axis to this plane , the phase-curve obtained would differ from the curve by only about two thirds the present amount .
Were the system of Nicols moved roundt t. correction to be applied to the curve would be in the other direction .
It has been assumed that.the ratio the two compcnents of natural light after passing through the plate of glass is to at incidence , and the corresponding ratio for moonlight to ( probably too high an estimate of the mean polarization of the moon 's light ) , at quadrature the maximum polarization occurring at about elongation .
ratio of intensities found in the two cases would thus be the same at about from full moon , and their ratio to at full moon .
Sir J. HEBSCHBL employed a photometer which appears to be free from this source of error .
I cannot find that any one has devoted much attention to the subject of the polarization of light from the moon except ARAGO and Father SnCCHI .
The former states that the maximum polarization occurs at or near quadrature , but gives no estimate of its amount .
Our experiments in this direction arc not as accordtlnt might be wished , and for the present do not appear worth publishing .
It may , however , be that any who happen to be working at Photometry should have their attention the mean time called to this possible source of error .
one hand , and the distance and radius of the circular aperture , the effective area of the condensing-mirror , and the one pile on the other , the temperature of the tin vessel necessary to produce an effect equal to that of the full moon , when acting under similar cumstances , could be at once calculated .
In the case of the moon-observations we have the following particulars:\mdash ; Full area of speculum Deduct for direct obstruction .
The assumed reflective power of the Proportion of the cone of rays not intercepted by pile and holder Hence the 3-foot speculum may be replaced by one of perfect reflective power whose area sq .
in .
Moon 's mean apparent semidiameter If we take 1 ' as the unlt , the moon 's area and the source of lunar radiation for a unit of excess of temperature Again , the distance of the hot tin from the condensing-mirrors was 111 inches , its radius 6 inches , and the unobstl.ucted area of the condensing-mirror inches , therefore source of heat for comparison ; hence ; OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
mat is , under the circumstances stated above , a difference of temperature of the blacklned tins acting alternately on one pile produces times the effect that the same excess of temperature of the area occupied by the moon 's disk above that of an equal area of the neighbouring sky ( assumed of the same temperature as the colder tin ) would do acting on the two piles in their position in the telescope .
It has been shown note ) that the moon at full , or , more strictly speaking , at the time of its maximum heat , before its rays traverse our atmosphere , would produce an effect on the galvanometer of parts of the scale ; therefore the tin at the same excess of temperature ( the radiating powers of the two surfaces being assumed equal ) would give parts .
l'herefore , employing DULONG and PETIT'S formula for the velocity of cooling* , is the temperature in degrees Centigrade of the colder tin , that of the botter one , a constant the mean difference of consecutive pairs of readings the galvanometer , and a constant deduced from experiments with the tins ) , mean value of Fahr. ( Cent. ) will give when Fahr. Cent. This result , it will be observed , differs much from a rough estimation of the value of he scale-readings at the conclusion of a former communlcatlon 9 .
Probably this nay be caused principally by neglect in distinguishing between the effect of one pile of both .
in other words , omitting a factor 2 from the former calculation , the * Annals de Chim .
et de Phys. .
This formula is , strictly speaking , only applicable to a radiating body vacuo ; but for the comparatlvely moderate temperatures here dealt with it perhaps as correct as any other .
These experiments were made on lllarch 25th and 26th , 1872 , and are as follows , where is the mean of consecutive differences:\mdash ; Cent. .
V obs .
Pile A. V calc .
Pile B. NEWTON'S law be employed , the corresponding excess of temperature of the tin would come ou Cent. Fahr. S Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 112 ( 1869 ) , p. 443 .
OF IIEAI FROM THE MOON .
That is , under the circumstances stated above , a difference of temperature of the blackened tins acting alternately on one pile produces times the effect that the same excess of temperature of the area occupied by the moon 's disk above that of an equal area of the neighbouring sky ( assumed of the same temperature as the colder tin ) would do acting on the two piles in their position in the telescope .
It has been shown ( p. 618 , note ) that the moon at full , or , more strictly speaking , at the time of its maximum heat , before its rays traverse our atmosphere , would produce an effect on the galvanometer of parts of the scale ; therefore the tin at the same excess of temperature ( the radiating powers of the two surfaces being assumed equal ) would give parts .
Therefore , employing DULONG and PETIT'S formula for the velocity of cooling* , ( where is the temperature in degrees Centigrade of the colder tin , that of the hotter one , a constant the mean difference of consecutive pairs of readings of the galvanometer , and a constant deduced from experiments with the tins ) , a mean value of Fahr. ( Cent. ) will give when Fahr. Cent. This result , it will be observed , differs much from a rough estimation of the value of the scale-readings given at the conclusion of a former communication S. Probably this may be caused principally by neglect in distinguishing between the effect of one pile and of both .
in other words , omitting a factor 2 from the former calculation , the * Annals de Chim .
et de Phys. .
This formula is , strictly speaking , only applicable to a radiating body in vacuo ; but for the comparatively moderate temperatures here dealt with it is perhaps as correct as any other .
These experiments were made on March 25th and 26th , , and are as follows , where is the mean of 10 consecutlve differences:\mdash ; Pile A.Cent ) V calc .
Pile B. If NEWTON'S law be employed , the corresponding excess of temperature of the tin would come ou Cent. Fahr. S Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 112 ( 1869 ) , p. 443 .
observations which form the subject of the greater part of it , as also to the great 3 care and the ability with which he has worked out the reductions .
I had hoped ; to have sent in this paper before the close of last Session ; but the greater completeness 4 ] which is the result of the delay , as well as the fact that the exceptionally unpropitious state of the weather would have prevented our profiting , in a new series of observations by any suggestions which might have come to us , have removed all cause for regretting this .
One thing I should have much wished to have added to this investigation had there been any reasonable prospect of doing so without considerably more delay\mdash ; namely , a more satisfactory determination of the value of the scale , by means of a comparison of the deviations due to solar with those due to lunar radiation , than that given in a former communication based on observations made -th an uncertaln sky and of only two or three hours ' duration .
APPENDIX .
Received May 7 , 1873 .
Since the foregoing written an explanation has ested itself for the very considerable divergence ( more than could fairly be ascribed to errors of observation ) of our heat-cul.ve from Professor ZoLLNER'S light-curve for change of phase , which will the same time account for the increase of the percentage of heat nsmitted by lass towards the time of full moon .
it not for the negative esult obtained with the thermopile on March 24th , 1871* , the latter fact might perhaps have been attributed to a constant amount of heat emitted from the interior of the moon ; but now this explanation is no longer admissible .
On referring to the Table at page C15 of the foregoing paper , it will be seen that the peycentage of heat transmitted by glass increases gradually from each side to a maximum at or near the time of full moon ; consequently the phase-curve for\ldquo ; heat glass * See page 589 , note .
OF HEAT THE MOON .
C25 will rise more rapidly towards full moon than the total heat-curve , and should therefore diverge less from ZoLLNER'S than the total heat-curve , when the ordinates are increased by a table factor .
This comparison has been made .
The ordinates of the curve ( Plate XLVIII .
) have been multiplied by , to make the curve correspond in height with curve ( Plate XLVIII .
) ; and , with the same object , photometric detelminations obtained with two different photometers and those by Sir JOHN with the prism photometer were multiplied respectively by the following factor ZoLLNER'S 1st method 2nd ( or improved ) method Applying these factors to the numbers given at page 102 of the 'Photometrische Untersuchungen ' ( for ZoLLNER'S observations ) , and to the quantities taken from plate of that work for HERSCHEL'S results , the following numbel.s were obtained:\mdash ; Professor ZoLLNER ; 1st method .
Moon 's light .
Moon 's Professor ZoLLNER ; 2nd method .
Moon 's light .
Noon 's light .
262 111.5 * The necessity for applying different factors to render comparable groups of observations already similarly treated by , arises from the fact that , since he constructed his diagram , has added four obscrvations by his second method , and has discovered two errors of each in the ation of the moon as in the ' Cape Observations .
' Sir JOHN HERSCHEL . .
Moon 's .
Ioon 's light .
Then with a perfectly unbiased mlnd the curve Plate ( Curve D ) , and not until afterwards superposing the curve of ' ' heat through glass treated as already stated , there was found to be a fair agreement between the two curves .
For the luminous rays , then , from the moon , the results obtained the eye aided by the photometer and those derived from the indications of the thermopile are asl neally identical as could be expected ; and it seems just to the explanation of the far greater divergence ( see Plate XLVIII .
, Curve C ) , under more favourable circumstances of observation , of the " " total heat-curve\ldquo ; in a real difference between the laws which govern the emission of heat and light from the lunar surface .
Let us for the moment assume with ZoLLNER that the moon 's surface is covered with angular ridges , whose sides are planes of , say , inclination , and whose direction is perpendicular to the plane in which the earth , sun , and moon lie .
The sun 's light will then in many parts shine on one side only of each of these ridges , which will reflect or diffuse the incident light diminished by the amount absorbed .
Let 1\mdash ; quantity absorbed , that emitted .
Some of the latter will strike the shaded sides of the ridges , but of this will be absorbed and only emitted .
With the heat , however , this will not be the case .
If the moon 's temperature be assumed from moment to moment practically constant , the whole of the heat which falls on her surface must necessarily leave it again ; whereas for every unit of light and heat which falls on the surface , of the former only leaves after one reflection , after two reflections , after three reflections , and so on .
Therefore the proportion of heat emitted by the shadows will be , as compared with the light coming from those same parts , times greater than what comes from the parts in direct sun are at once explained .
ight ; mitted iirections removed sistance fargercompared whrown bvards treater flatness ocurve ancrease oercentage oransmitted bmoon , possessed fuller data than we at present have on which to base our calculations .
OF HEAT FROM THE MOON .
A further , but probably a less important , cause for the divergence of the heat- and light-curves lies in the fact that the moon 's surface to a certain extent " " regularly reflects\ldquo ; as well as diffuses and heat .
Let be respectively the light and heat regularly reflected .
be respectively the and heat regularly diffused , unchanged in refrangibility .
be respectively the light and heat ularly absorbed and afterwards emitted .
be respectively the light and heat regularly radiated after more than one reflection .
As long as the two curves will be identical , even though and be a different function of the elongation from and .
But if this relation does not hold , which will be the case if , for and , then the phasecurve for will goyern the resulting curve for total light more than it will do that for total heat .

