298 Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
[ Mar. 5 , of viscosity up to the highest temperature at which a platinum capillary has been used .
As the fireclay or graphite disc remains uncorroded at temperatures of 1000 ' C. and over , the method is quite well suited for high temperature work .
I am now engaged on viscosity measurements with a number of salts and metals , and hope before long to report on these .
Any expenses connected with this investigation have been defrayed by grants from the Chemical Society and from the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland .
Bakerian Lecture for 1907.\#151 ; On the Atomic Weight of Radium .
By T. E. Thorpe , C.B. , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( Delivered June 20 , 1907 ; MS .
received in completed form , March 5 , 1908 .
) Although there has been a considerable amount of discussion , based upon spectroscopic considerations and on its supposed mode of genesis , respecting the place of radium in the system of the elements , and inferentially , therefore , concerning its atomic weight , we are indebted for the only direct experimental determinations of this value hitherto made known to the discoverer of the element , Mme .
Curie .
Her first observations , published in 1902 , were made on about 90 milligrammes of the chloride , and furnished the value 225 as the mean of three fairly concordant experiments.* In the autumn of last year Mme .
Curie communicated to the French Academy the results of a second series of estimations .
These were made upon much larger quantities of the carefully purified chloride ( about 4 decigrammes ) and afforded the value 226*2 as the mean of three closely concordant determinations ( Ag = 107*8 , Cl=35#4).f In 1906 , at the instance of Sir William Huggins , then President of the Society , and by the aid of the kind interest shown by H.RJEL the Prince of Wales , the Austrian Government placed about 500 kilogrammes of pitchblende residues from the mine at Joachimsthal at the disposal of the Royal Society .
These residues were sent to be worked up by M. Armet de Lisle at his factory at Nogent-sur-Marne , by the method employed by him in the case of the * 'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys.,5 vol. 30 , 1903 .
t 'Comptes Rendus,5 1907 , vol. 145 , p. 422 ; 'Le Radium,5 October , 1907 .
1908 .
] On the Atomic Weight of Radium .
material which served M. and Mme .
Curie for their researches .
The funds for both these purposes were defrayed from a grant made by the Goldsmiths ' Company to the Royal Society in 1904 for the purpose of the investigation of radium .
The residues , as received by M. Armet de Lisle , were stated to have a radio-activity of about 2| times that of uranium .
The process of extraction employed by M. Armet de Lisle resulted in the production of about 413 grammes of practically anhydrous barium chloride , containing radium chloride sufficient to give the salt a radio-activity 560 times that of uranium .
This salt was received by the Royal Society in the autumn of 1906 , and was handed to me in January , 1907 , with the request that I would extract the radium chloride from it , and undertake , if possible , a redetermination of the atomic weight of the element .
This in view of the discussion , already referred to , which was then taking place as to the relation of radium to certain other elements , seemed at the time the most profitable use to which the radium salt , when extracted , could be put .
When received by me the barium-radium chloride was distinctly cream-coloured , and the bottle in which it was contained was coloured violet .
The method of extraction was substantially the same as that originally adopted by Mme .
Curie , and described in her thesis , * namely , systematic fractional crystallisation , first from water and then from increasingly strong hydrochloric acid , until finally the acid used was the strongest that could be obtained by distillation .
All the solvents employed were carefully purified , the acid being distilled in a platinum retort , and preserved in a platinum bottle .
The crystallisations were made first in porcelain , subsequently in Jena glass , and finally , as the radio-active matter became more and more concentrated , in vessels of fused rock-crystal .
Every precaution was taken to guard against loss and accidents , and to ensure the recovery of the radium should such occur .
It is satisfactory to be able to state that the whole scheme of extraction , involving some 9400 recrystallisations , was carried through without a mishap .
I have to thank Mme .
Curie for her courtesy in affording me information concerning certain details of her method of isolating the radium salt .
At the outset of our exchange of letters she informed me , of what at the time I was unaware , that she was then actually engaged on the same problem , and she has since , as already stated , published the results of her determinations .
She was good enough , however , to express the hope that I would continue the work which I had been requested to undertake , in view of the desirability * Loc .
cit. Y 2 t 300 Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
[ Mar. 5 , of gaining all possible knowledge as to the true atomic weight of the element . .
During the autumn of 1907 , whilst still engaged in the isolation of the radium chloride from the material furnished by M. Armet de Lisle , I received a further small supply of radium from the Royal Society .
It was bought in Cambridge and was of German origin , and had been purchased through the instrumentality of Professor Liveing .
It purported to be radium bromide , but on removing it from the metallic capsule in which it had been stored since 1903 , it was found to be wholly insoluble in water .
On treatment with pure dilute hydrobromic acid it readily passed into solution .
The salt obtained by evaporation was sent to Professor Rutherford , who had kindly undertaken to make any measurements of radio-activity which I needed .
He estimated the amount of radium present as equivalent to 33 milligrammes of radium bromide .
This salt was eventually converted into chloride , and was purified by repeated crystallisation from strong hydrochloric acid .
Traces of lead cling persistently to the radium chloride thus separated by means of hydrochloric acid .
Mme .
Curie was so kind as to draw my special attention to this fact , and accordingly care was taken to remove this metal .
When practically the whole of the radio-active matter had been concentrated into a few grammes of the material , this was dissolved in water acidulated with hydrochloric acid , and treated with sulphuretted hydrogen out of contact with air .
A small precipitate of lead sulphide was formed .
The liquid was further treated with sulphuretted hydrogen , the lead sulphide removed by filtration , the filtrate evaporated to dryness , the residue treated with strong hydrochloric acid , and the process of fractionation resumed .
That the precipitate was lead sulphide was confirmed by its conversion into the yellow iodide .
Determination of Atomic Weight .
This was effected by ascertaining the amount of silver chloride yielded by a weighed quantity of the anhydrous radium chloride\#151 ; the principle of the method already employed by Mme .
Curie .
Since it was very improbable that the amount of the radium salt at my disposal would amount to as much as a decigramme , it was absolutely necessary so to arrange the process of carrying out the estimations as to minimise , to the greatest possible extent , the errors due to manipulation .
Accordingly a method was devised whereby the whole of the operations of drying and weighing the radium chloride , precipitating , washing , drying and weighing the silver chloride , might be performed in one and the same vessel , thus 1908 .
] On the Atomic Weight of Radium .
301 obviating the necessity of transferring the silver salt , and of separating it by any of the ordinary processes of filtration .
The vessel in which these operations were made consisted of a thin glass tube with a conical base furnished with a hollow well-ground stopper .
It had a capacity of about 15 c.c. , and was as light as was consistent with the requisite strength , and could be suspended from the balance-arm by fine platinum wire .
In all the weighings a precisely similar bottle of almost identical weight and capacity , suspended in like manner , was employed as a tare .
The weighings were made on a very sensitive assay balance , with 4-inch arms , carrying a maximum load of 12 grammes and provided with light stirrup pans .
I am indebted to Mr. Oertling for the loan of it .
It was a beautifully finished instrument of great delicacy , and remarkably constant in its indications ( fig. 1 ) .
302 Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
[ Mar. 5 , The weights were also of Oertling 's make , and were compared before use with a standard set belonging to the Government Laboratory .
A room was specially set apart and arranged for the determinative work .
It was a small apartment on one of the upper floors of the Government Laboratory and had a wooden block floor arranged " herring-bone " fashion .
The walls of the building were subject to a very slight tremor , due to a small steam engine in the basement .
The balance table , therefore , was not bolted to the walls , as is the usual practice , but was placed directly on the floor , which , by reason of its mode of construction , was less susceptible to tremor than the walls .
The legs of the table stood on packets of filter paper , as did also the levelling screws of the balance case .
Under these conditions the balance was found to be quite free from tremor and the levels remained absolutely constant throughout the entire course of the work .
The weighings were made by the method of vibrations , the zero-point being determined before and after each determination .
The course of the operations was as follows :\#151 ; The small glass vessel and its tare were first heated to about 150 ' in an air bath for an hour and allowed to stand overnight in a desiccator containing phosphoric oxide .
They were then weighed one against the other in the manner described .
The chloride , previously dried at 140 ' to 150 ' , was next transferred by means of a platinum spatula from the rock-crystal basin in which it was contained , to the glass vessel , and this and its tare were again heated to 150 ' for about an hour in the air bath , and , after standing overnight in the desiccator containing phosphoric oxide , were again weighed .
The chloride was then dissolved in 2 c.c. of distilled water , the solution acidulated with two drops of dilute nitric acid ( 1 :4 ) , warmed and mixed with a slight excess of silver nitrate solution of known strength added drop by drop , with constant shaking , from a narrow burette capable of being read to 1/ 50 c.c. When clear , the liquid was again tested with the silver nitrate solution in order to ascertain that the precipitation was complete , and after standing for about 18 hours in a warm place when the silver chloride had wholly subsided into the bottom of the conical portion of the Vessel , the clear supernatant solution was drawn off by means of a capillary glass tube .
This was conveniently effected in the manner illustrated by fig. 2 .
The vessel ( a ) containing the silver chloride was placed on the small elevating table ( b ) , the height of which could be adjusted by means of the rack and pinion arrangement seen at ( c ) , so that the end of the drawn out capillary syphon ( \lt ; d ) , made of thermometer tubing , could be brought to within a millimetre or two of the deposit of silver chloride .
By gentle aspiration at ( e ) the action of the syphon was started , and by far the greater quantity of the clear On the Atomic Weight of Radium .
1908 .
] liquid could be drawn over into the flask ( f ) without the slightest risk of disturbing the precipitate .
The table was then lowered , and the end of the syphon as well as the internal sides of the vessel washed by a fine stream of hot distilled water .
After clarification , the wash-water , which was about 4 or 5 c.c. in bulk , was drawn over as before , and the process repeated .
After each addition of hot water the vessel containing the silver chloride was well shaken , and the d a \#151 ; Fig. 2 .
precipitate broken up by means of a fine platinum wire , so as to bring the washing water in thorough contact with it .
As is well known , silver chloride which has become granular by standing shows little or no tendency to occlude soluble matter and is readily washed .
Both the end of the syphon and the platinum wire were always washed by a stream of hot water and were carefully examined by a lehs , but in no case was any silver chloride found to have become attached .
The liquid drawn over was invariably perfectly clear .
Assuming that we have 100 milligrammes of soluble matter in the 4 c.c. of the clear supernatant liquid and that we draw over 3*5 c.c. at each successive Dr , T. E. Thorpe .
[ Mar. 5 , operation as above described , it is readily calculable that the amount of matter in solution , even after the third operation , is probably too small to be appreciated by the balance .
The following table shows how rapidly the soluble matter is removed by systematic washing in the manner described .
Milligrammes .
Original solution contains ... ... ... ... ... . .
100 After first decantation , residual liquid ... 12*5 first washing " ... . . .
1-56 second " \gt ; \gt ; , , ... . . .
019 third " , , ... . . .
0-02 fourth " \#187 ; , , . . . . . .
0-003 fifth " \#187 ; jj ?
... . .
00004 As the precipitated silver haloid was always thus washed six times in succession , it may be assumed that it was practically freed from all soluble matter .
Care was of course taken to protect the silver chloride from the action of light , and to the extent that was practicable all the operations were carried out in a photographic dark room which adjoined the small laboratory set aside for the work .
No matter what precautions were taken to exclude ordinary white light , the silver chloride invariably became violet in contact with radium solutions .
The washed silver chloride was first dried at 100 ' and then heated in the air bath to 160 ' for about a couple of hours , and , after standing in the desiccator over phosphoric oxide for about 18 hours , weighed in the manner described .
In order to test the practicability of the method and to acquire experience of its working , as well as to gain some idea of its accuracy before actually making use of it in the case of the radium salt , a series of determinations of atomic weight was made with barium chloride , purified by systematic recrystallisation from water , according to the method already indicated , the same apparatus , reagents , and solutions being employed as were to be used subsequently in the radium determinations .
The results were as follows:\#151 ; Ag = 107-93 .
Cl = 35-45 .
Barium chloride .
Silver chloride .
milligrammes .
milligrammes .
Atomic weight , Ba .
114*7 157-8 1375 172-1 236-8 .
137-5 57-1 78-8 136-9 62-6 86-1 137-6 681 93-7 137-5 \#151 ; : spnsoj SuiMopoj 9q^ oauS 'pojoaoooj snqi opuojqo umijuq uo paquosop jouuura oqj ui opuiu 'ranijuq jo p{8i0M oiuupu 9q^ jo suoipmiuua^op omj , .opijojqo oq^ ojui p0:pi9Auoo0j os puu piou oijojqoojp^q ojnd jo soipjuunb quuts qpM pojuJoduAO iCjpo^uadoj uoq^ sum onpisoj poijp oqj^ *su8-quoo uopuoq jo uoujsnquioo oqj Xq poonpojd jnqdpis jo sopixo oqj jo uoi(pu ojqissod Are pioxe oj duiej |oqooje ue qpM pojeoq q^eq-jopsM e joao ssouAp oj po^ejodexo pue mseq eoips e oj pojjojsuej^ uoipqos 9q^ pun 'poquosop Apeojje jouuuui 9q^ in poqsexv iqqgnojoqi opuojqo joajis oq^ 'uoqdis Aepideo oq^ , \#163 ; q jgo uA\ejp sua\ pmbij pie'jeujadns oq^ 'juojo iCpjoojJod p^un Suipuejs jopy .uopnjos pioe ouojqoojpifq oip jo dojp ojSuis e jo uoipppe 9q ; A(\ 'o^ojduioo suav uoiiepdioojd oip ( }eq^ uiejjoose oj 'poqsoj sua\ p jeop ^uoioigns sum pmbq oqj uoqM pun 'guiqeqs ( }uejsuoo qpM 'dojp iq dojp 'poppe ijsnopineo noqj sum 'q'jguojis uMouq jo uoi^rqos opqip e ui pouie^uoo 'pioe ouopjoojp^q jo ; unoiue siqx *p ojepdioojd 04 pojinboj pioe ouoppojpiq jo ip^uenb oqj ouiuijo^op os pue uopnjos ui Suiuiuuioj ^unorae oq ; ojejnopso 0^ Aeo sum p 'iiMOuq ojom 'optjopjo JOAps poqSiOM 9q^ in geq^ se p9M se 'posn ipeuiSuo JOAps oqj jo ^unoiue oq'j sy .uoippos in pioe ouopjoojpXq jo SS99X9 ojqejopisuoo Xue guiAuoj ^noqpM JOAps oq ; jo iioiiepdtoojd oq ' } p)9jj9 oj se pioe oijojqoojpiq oq^ uoipiodde o^ os Ajussooou ^ppionbosuoo suay p 'opuojqo uinipui jo suoi^njos ui 'ojojojoq ; 'ijquumsoid puu 'sq^juo 9iiquqju oqj jo sopijojqo 9q^ jo pnu piou ouojqoojpiq jo suopnjos in ojqnjosui ipoqM ^ou si 9pijojqo J9A|ig 'jjasp p9 ; ii9S0jd 00110 c[u jC(qnoqjip y 'piou otiojqoojpiq jo suu9in A(\ p9^O9j[j0 9q ^qSiiu snpp -uoipijos ni joajis jo SS90X9 9qj 0Aom9i o^ suav d9^s ( jsiq 9q^ .uoi^miiiiu9^9p ( }u0nb9sqns v ui ^qSi9M oimo^u 01^ jo 9UJBA 9q^ oouonqiii ^ou pjnoM siqj ^0050 0^ ifjuss099ii suoi^ui9do 0q ; ^uq^ puu S 0puojqo o^ui p9jJ9AU009i pnu p9J9A009J 0q pjnoo 'opiiojqo j9Aps su ouuojqo 01^ jo not^ujidioojd 01^ J0jju piou oijpu qpM noi^moossu ui uoipijos 9qi in ^six9 ppiOAV qoiqM ^U9IU9J9 9q^ ^uq ; 9A0^d 0^ 9[qujiS9p sua\ p 'suoi^uuiuLm^p ^n9pu9d9pui jupuixs 9quin 0^ 9ui 9jquu9 0^ 90q}ns ^ou ifjuiuji0O ^souqu p^noM uiu^qo 0^ 9doq pjnoo j pus mnipuj jo jfp^uunb oip sy quiJ9^um jo sjunoinu ; u9pu9d9pui no 0puui 010M suopuniinj9^0p 0saqx T-Z8I si '80\#151 ; Z06I 'smSiQAi '\#153 ; '1Y no aa^irauioo juiiopunj9pij 9qj iCq p9^dopu mnuuq joj 9iquA 9qx 'p0ifo{diu9 Xpun^ou 0.10M su puras os soipprunb jo osuo oq^ in ojqiSqSou ^CpoqM osjiioo jo oju ioq^ fX[0Apo0ds9J oiiiuiu.iS jod 5000-0 puu ^0000-0 A\uo opijojqo imiiiuq oq^ joj puu opuojqo joajis oq^ joj .nu p0OU[dsip joj siioi^oojjoo oq^ sy 508 luntpng fo 1 ']m'W uO [ '8061 Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
[ Mar. 5 , Barium chloride , milligrammes .
139*5 78-8 Silver chloride , milligrammes .
191-4 108-3 Atomic weight , Ba .
138-1 137*7 In the hope that I might be able to employ the bromide of radium in the determination of the atomic weight of this element , I also made a similar preliminary series of determinations of the atomic weight of barium by means of barium bromide prepared from the pure chloride , and repeatedly recrystallised from alcohol .
The results were as follows :\#151 ; Ag Barium bromide , milligrammes .
89*9 96*0 111*0 107-93 .
Br = 79*96 .
Silver bromide , milligrammes .
113*6 121*4 140*3 Atomic weight , Ba .
137*5 137*3 137*4 Two determinations were made on the recovered barium bromide , with the following results :\#151 ; \#166 ; Barium bromide .
Silver bromide .
milligrammes .
milligrammes .
Atomic weight , Ba .
91-0 114-9 137-7 80-8 102-1 137-5 It will be seen from these numbers that a very close approximation to the true atomic weight of barium can be obtained by the method described , the maximum error being about half a unit , or less than 0*5 per cent. Considering that the atomic weight of radium is probably nearly double that of barium , the same fortuitous errors would affect its value to about a unit .
There is , however , one circumstance which , whilst not without influence in raising the value of barium , when determined on the recovered chloride , hardly affects the value of radium .
In the case of radium , the effect of any minute quantity of retained silver haloid in the recovered salt , provided it is weighed with the precipitated silver chloride , is practically negligible , since radium chloride gives approximately its own weight of silver chloride .
As the work of isolating and purifying the radium chloride proceeded , determinations of the amount of chlorine were made as described from time to time , and as soon as approximately constant values were obtained it was assumed that any barium or other impurity present was too small 1908 .
] On the Atomic Weight of Radium .
in amount to affect the results when regard was had to the unavoidable experimental errors .
The resulting chloride was then repeatedly and carefully recrystallised from pure , strong , hydrochloric acid , the " tails , " which were comparatively rich in radium , being specially set apart .
The purified salt finally extracted from the material supplied by M. Armet de Lisle weighed , when anhydrous , 64 milligrammes .
I regard this salt as substantially radium chloride .
I am not , however , in a position to say that it was absolutely free from barium .
At the same time , I have reason to believe that the amount still present was probably too small to materially influence the result , considering the limited quantity of the salt I had to work with , and the consequent relatively large experimental errors .
With the aid of Sir William Huggins , who kindly made the spectroscopic trials for me , I was able to carry out Mme .
Curie 's test of comparing the relative intensity of the lines of barium and radium in the spark spectrum of the separated radium chloride .
Mme .
Curie compared the relative strengths of lines 4554*2 of Ba and 4533*3 of ltd .
Although these have the advantage of being close together , they are of dissimilar intensity .
Sir William Huggins advised that a more stringent test would be to take the line 5536*2 of Ba of intensity 10 , and compare it with the Ed lines 5813*8 and 5560*8 , which are also of intensity 10 .
On actually making the trials , which were repeated several times , the green Ba line 5536*2 , although visible , was seen to be relatively very feeble\#151 ; less intense , indeed , than that afforded by the most dilute solution of barium chloride that we were able to employ .
With this material , therefore , I attempted to make the determination of atomic weight .
Accordingly , the greater portion was transferred to the vessel already described , and the amount of chlorine in the anhydrous salt determined with all possible care .
The result was :\#151 ; Radium chloride .
Silver chloride , milligrammes .
milligrammes .
Atomic weight , Rd .
62*7 60*4 226*8 The radium was recovered from the solution , reconverted into chloride , added to what remained of the original quantity , and the amount of chlorine again determined in the anhydrous salt .
The second result was:\#151 ; Radium chloride .
Silver chloride , milligrammes .
milligrammes .
Atomic weight , Rd .
63*9 61*8 225*7 The purified chloride obtained from the Cambridge material amounted to 308 Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
[ Mar. 5 , 24 milligrammes .
A chlorine determination on a portion gave a number exceeding 230 for the atomic weight .
No more importance can be attached to this value , considering the very small amount employed , than as showing that the salt was of the same order of purity as that obtained from the French material .
It was accordingly added to the main bulk , and the whole was repeatedly crystallised from strong hydrochloric acid , about 6 milligrammes being thus removed in the mother liquors .
The resulting chloride , after being dried at 150 ' , was again analysed , with the following results:\#151 ; Radium chloride .
Silver chloride , milligrammes .
milligrammes .
Atomic weight , Rd .
78*4 75*3 227*7 The mean value is 226*7 , or , to the nearest unit , 227 .
This , it will be observed , is in very close accord with Mme .
Curie 's latest number .
I think , therefore , it is reasonably well established that the atomic weight of radium is now known to within a unit which , considering the relatively high number , is , under the present circumstances , as fair a degree of exactitude as could be anticipated .
There are , however , one or two facts connected with the behaviour of radium chloride which , as they may possibly affect the determination of its atomic weight , may here be mentioned .
If a quantity of the salt be kept in perfectly dry air , it will be noticed that it very slowly increases in weight .
The increase is very small , but it is plainly perceptible on a sufficiently delicate balance , and in the course of three or four days may amount to 0*3 per cent. On opening the vessel a marked smell of ozone is perceived , and on aspirating the air from above the chloride by means of a capillary tube passing into a freshly-prepared solution of potassium iodide and starch , iodine is found to be liberated , as seen from its action on the starch .
Moreover , on dissolving radium chloride which has stood for some time in contact with the air in warm water , and acidulating the solution with dilute nitric acid , a smell recalling that of hypochlorous acid is perceived .
The observed increase in weight may be due , therefore , to a portion of the air in the vessel becoming ozonised , or to a slight oxidation of the chloride , or to both these causes combined .
Their joint effect would tend to increase the atomic weight of radium .
Another remarkable circumstance connected with radium chloride is its action on colourless rock-crystal , which is gradually turned a deep purplish black .
Berthelot has already drawn attention to the action of radium on quartz .
The silica vessels which I employed in connection with the foregoing work were thus strongly coloured in the course of a few months .
1908 .
] On the Atomic Weight of Radium .
Moreover , these vessels , as well as those of porcelain and glass , are slightly attacked by radium chloride , with the formation , apparently , of insoluble silicates .
A similar observation has been made by Mine .
Curie .
It occasionally happened that a sample of radium chloride , after standing for some considerable time in contact with glass , gave a faintly turbid solution , although when the salt was newly crystallised from hydrochloric acid its aqueous solution was perfectly clear .
I had hoped , as stated , to have obtained an additional series of values for the atomic weight of radium by the analysis of the bromide .
As already mentioned , I reconverted the Cambridge material into this salt ; but my experience with it leads me to infer that it is not sufficiently stable to afford trustworthy values for the atomic weight of the element .
It appears to lose bromine and eventually becomes insoluble in water .
I hope to be able to study this change more minutely , as well as to throw some additional light on the action of radium salts on glass .
In conclusion , I desire to acknowledge my indebtedness to my assistant , Mr. Arthur G. Francis , B.Sc. , for the assiduity , conscientiousness , and skill with which he has carried through what has proved to be the most irksome and tedious part of the work , namely , the isolation and purification of the radium chloride .
I am also indebted to Professor Rutherford for the measurements of radioactivity which he made for me in the course of the fractionation of my material .

