81 1886 .
] New Volcanic Island in the Pacific Ocean .
Finally , some comparisons are given between Clark cells and Daniells , with equi-dense solutions , both of Raoult 's pattern and of that described recently by Dr. Fleming .
Y. " Account of a new Volcanic Island in the Pacific Ocean .
" By Wilfred Rowell , H.B.M. Consul in Samoa .
In a letter to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty .
Received January 17 , 1886 .
Hydrographic Department , Admiralty , S. TV , Sir , January , 1886 .
I have the honour to forward to you a photograph and a copy of a letter received from H.M. Consul at Samoa , relating to a volcanic island recently formed by a submarine volcano , in the vicinity of the Friendly Group in the Pacific Ocean , which I think may be of interest to the Royal Society .
I also forward a chart of the locality showing the position of the new island .
It is unfortunate that , as the hydrographical knowledge of the vicinity is very imperfect , no information exists as to the depths from which this island has pushed its way .
( Signed ) W. J. L. Wharton , The Secretary , Royal Society .
Hydrographer .
( Enclosure .
) H.B.M. Consulate , Samoa , Sir , November 21 1885 .
I have the honour to report that whilst on a passage from the " Friendly " Islands to the " Navigators " Islands , on board the steam ship " Janet Nicoll , " we observed a newly-risen volcanic island .
I was informed in " Tongatabu " that the eruption was first remarked from that island ( a distance of over 40 miles ) on Tuesday , 13th of October .
We passed it on Sunday , the 8th of November , at a distance of about 1^ miles .
The following will be the approximate position by compass bearings :\#151 ; Peak of " Kao " Island over centre of " Tefoa " Island , north by east .
West end of " Honga Tonga " Island , south by east .
Centre of crater from ship west 11 miles .
The island appeared to be about two miles in length north by west and south by east , of about 200 feet in height , having a reef on the VOL. XL .
a New Volcanic Island in the Pacific Ocean .
[ Jan. 21 , northern extremity of half a mile in extent , with one also to the southward of 1^ miles ( approx. ) .
I have the honour to enclose a photograph which I took at the time the island bore west 1^ miles , and which although very inferior and taken under circumstances of considerable difficulty , will give some idea of the appearance of the eruption .
( Signed ) Wilfred Rowell , To the Sydrographer of the H.B.M. Consul , Samoa .
Admiralty , Whitehall .

