]\gt ; On the Nature of Heat .
lultiplier , the ratio of work gained to heat lost in a cycle of [ nite range will become unity , replacing in the final formulae .
his choice of calorimetric substance will therefore establish quantitative , quivalence between work gained and heat lost : and there is no reason why his result should remain restricted to reversible processes .
Finally , we obviously invited to select the one remaining function as the measure of the standard temperature ; so that now for any finite ange of temperature the formula for a Carnot engine become The one exception to this deduction is its own limiting case , that may be a constant , say .
Thus and ; so that we would still be invited to select as absolute temperature , and the motive power would arise from the fall of the heat , unchanged in amount , through the range of temperature , exactly after the analogy of the fall of a stream of water through a change of level .
10 .
The whole formal theory of heat engines , and of thermodynamic processes in general , is thus developable in a purely abstract manner from Carnot 's own initial idea , that heat can give rise to motive power only in the process of carrying through its effort towards equilibrium .
from this postulate , it is left to experience to decide between two sharply contrasted alternatives , whether ( 1 ) heat is virtually a substance doing work merely by falling to a lower level of temperature , or , on the other hand , 2 ) it is a form of energy , presumably of a fortuitous molecular type , which can be arranged in part into ordered or mechanical energy by taking advantage of its innate effort to run down towards a dead level of distribution .
The kinetic energies of the molecules in a small element of mass will , in fact , mix together far more rapidly towards an equilibrium of distribution in that element than will the energies distributed through a large volume of the substance ; thus in the static type of theory to which thermodynamics is restricted , each element of mass is assumed to have already a temperature .
But the energy existing at this dead level of temperature in the infinitesimal elements can be in part recovered or reconstituted into energy arranged in finite groupings in these elements , thus becoming partly regularised and therefore of mechanical type , when suitable advantage is taken of the further effort towards equalisation of temperature between the elements and throughout the whole mass .
11 .
It still remains , on this order of ideas , to identify physically the scale VOL. XCIV .

