148 Gen. Sir E. Sabine on Terrestrial Magnetism .
[ June 15 , XIII .
" Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism " \#151 ; No. XV .
By General Sir Edward Sabine , R.A. , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) The paper now offered to the Society forms the fifteenth and last of a series of papers printed in the Philosophical Transactions , entitled " Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism .
" The whole fifteen numbers are related to each other as " Contributions to the Magnetic Survey of the Globe .
" Pour of them , viz. XI .
, XIII .
, XIV .
and the present paper , contain the complete statement of this survey in the double form of " Catalogue " or " Tables " and of " Magnetic Maps ; " of these maps there are twelve , one for each of the three magnetic elements in each of the four papers .
The present paper consists ( as did its last predecessor , No. XIV .
) of four zones , each 10 ' in breadth:\#151 ; Zone 1 , comprehending from the equator to 10 ' S. Zone 2 , " " lat. 10 ' S. " 20 ' S. Zone 3 , " " lat. 20 ' S. " 30 ' S. Zone 4 , " " lat. 30 ' S. " 40 ' S. In the Tables the observations are entered in each zone in the succession of their longitudes , beginning with the meridian of Greenwich .
The statements in the introduction to No. XIII .
regarding the different magnetic elements apply to the present paper , as , they did also to the preceding paper , No. XIV .
The question of correction for secular change next presents itself .
Happily the greater part of the observations were made within , or very near to , the " mean epoch , " viz. 1840-1845 .
Sea-observations were not generally corrected for differences of epoch in the previous papers ; but in the present paper such corrections have been introduced for observations within the range of places ( land stations ) where the rate of secular change has been sufficiently established .
Nos. XI .
\amp ; XIII .
, published earlier , comprise the northern and southern portions of the globe from either pole to lat. 40 ' .
These are the regions which have long been recognized as offering to the magnetician at once the most arduous and the most important field of research .
In the middle or equatorial portions of the globe , comprised in the last and present papers , the magnetic relations are simpler , and the laying down of the lines representing them derives much aid from the adjacent portions of the north and south polar maps ; therefore , both as regards observations and treatment , less abundant as well as less exact evidence , it is hoped , may suffice .

