T Fig. 1 .
C D C A B B H F H F E GP EH T H TAB. II Philosoph. Transact. No.449 Fig. 2 A A A C D DB E D D D D VII .
Of an Obstruction of the Biliary Ducts , and an Impostumation of the Gall-Bladder , discharging upwards of 18 Quarts of bilious Matter in 25 Days , without any apparent Defect in the Animal Functions .
By Claudius Amyand , Esq ; Serjeant Surgeon to His Majesty , and F. R. S. MR. La Grange , aged about 50 , of a sallow bilious Complexion , died of an Abscess in the Vesica Fellis , the 29th of May 1733 .
Dr. Vatas , his Physician in Ordinary , reports , That about 14 Years before , this Gentleman was afflicted with a Tertian Ague , which was cured by the Bark , and from that Time had complained of a Sense of Weight , and some Uneasiness and Hardness in the Region of the Liver and Borborygmi , which were relieved by frequent Purgations ; notwithstanding which , he had enjoyed all the Appearances of Health , till about four Months before his Death , when some Symptoms of the Jaundice first began to appear on him , which had greatly increased five or six Weeks before he died , when he began to complain of shooting Pains on the Right Hypochonder , which was soon follow 'd with a hard inflammatory Tumour there , tending to Suppuration .
The 4th of May , I met Dr. Vatas , and Mr. Fiquel , his Surgeon , in order to open a large Abscess pointing below the Cartilages of the second and third spurious Ribs on the Right Side .
It was determined to open it immediately with a Lancet , whereupon a Pint of a purulent fetid Matter was discharged .
The Aperture being large , and the Dressings easy , by the next Day we found , that a very large Quantity of Sanies , and some Pus left in the Bag , had found a Vent ; and this was so great , that it was thought proper to renew the Dressings twice a Day .
This had the desired Effect so far , that from this Time the Matter daily decreased till the 12th of May , when we were informed , that during the Night the Wound had discharged near two Quarts of Matter of a saffron Colour , intermix 'd with large Flakes and thick Lumps of a coagulated Lymph or Jelly , tinged of a deep Yellow ; and what surprised us no less , was , that upon Dressing we made way for the Discharge of about a Quart more of the same , as we enlarged the Orifice of the bursted Bag , to favour the coming out of the large Flakes and Lumps of Jelly obturating at times this Orifice .
During this Day the Discharge was exceeding great , and at Night was emptied about a Pint more of the same Matter .
From this Time a short and thick Canula was left in the Opening of the bursted Bag , this causing a more easy and constant Discharge , and a vulnerary Injection , strongly saturated with Spirit of Wine , had the good Effect to diminish it very considerably ; but yet it continued so very great , that we had just Reason to apprehend our Patient would soon sink under so great a Flux of this bilious Matter , and the rather that his Stomach and his Rest failed him ; but the Discharge daily lessening , and his Appetite and Rest returning in Proportion , he recovered Strength enough to be able to walk .
All this while the Appearances of the Jaundice were wearing of , the Urine was returned to its natural Colour , and the Patient had regularly a natural Stool every Day , till about eight Days before his Death , when his Body becoming costive , the Physician found it necessary to discharge the Feces , by Clysters and lenient Purges .
Whilst I attended him , his Belly was always free from Fulness or Tension , being soft and lank , and he less troubled with Wind , than he had been for many Years before .
Two Days before he died , he went to air himself in another Room , and caught Cold : This is presumed to have occasioned a Fever follow 'd with a Lethargy , in which he continued till the 29th of May , when he died .
Dr. Stuart and Dr. Vatas , Mr. Fiquel , myself , and several more , attended the Dissection , when it was observed , that our Patient was not nearly so exteS s2 nuated nuated as might have been expected , after so great a Discharge of Bile and Lymph during , 25 Days ; for much Fat was yet observed under the Skin and elsewhere , and his Flesh not much sunk from the natural State , but the Blood-Vessels were found extremely empty .
The Abdomen being opened , the Caul or Omentum was shrivel 'd up , and adhered to a great Bag or Cystis , affixed to the Inside of the great Lobe of the Liver , and stretching from thence along the Right Flank , over one half of the Kidney on that Side .
The Left Lobe of the Liver was removed from the Left Side to the Right , not reaching farther than the Right Edge of the Cartilago Ensiformis , and the Pylorus : The Ligamentum latum Suspensorium hepatis , was drawn backwards into the Right Hypochonder .
The Liver was of a natural Colour , but very small , and more decayed and wasted in Proportion than the other Viscera , but as free as they from any preternatural Adhesion , Obstruction , or Induration , and the Bag or Cystis arising from it , strongly adhering by its Outside only , to the Peritoneum , down to the Right Kidney .
Upon passing my Finger through the Wound in the Integuments , it entered first into a Cavity made between the Peritoneum and the Outside of the Cystis , in which the Matter of the Abscess had been lodged , and then through a Hole in the Cystis , or grand Bag , through which the great Collection of Bile in this Saccus had afterwards made its way ; and it was observed , that the strong Coalition of this Bag to the Peritoneum round that Part where the Pus had been collected , had shut up all Communication with the Cavity of the Belly , and thereby prevented any Extravasation into the Abdomen .
Now the Bag or Cystis being separated from the Peritoneum , and this and the Liver spread on a Board , it was observed that the Matter had been collected in the GallBladder , without affecting the Liver itself .
The Vesica Fellis was become a very large Bladder , and extended so as then to appear capable of containing three Pints , or more ; it was nearly as broad as long : It arose very broad from the inner Surface of the Right Lobe of the Liver , which it occupied about 10 Inches in Circumference , or more : Its Bulk had removed the Stomach and Pylorus from their natural Situations , and pressed them far under the Left Hypochonder , and that Part of the Colon placed naturally on the Right Kidney , forwards upon the Spine : Its Surfaces were rugged and unequal , as that of a Potato , and its Coats thick and horny , forming several Tumours , Elongations or Expansions , of different Sizes and Figures ; one of which , as large as a Hen 's Egg , was full of a cretaceous Matter , intermix 'd with hard white Stones .
This cretaceous Bag was made in the Duplicature of the Vesica Fellis , but had no Communication with nor Opening into it , which several other Tumours appearing of the same Kind , had ; whence it was presumed that some very small Pieces of Creta , found in the great Bag , might have dropped from them into it , but it is more likely we had dropped them there , because nothing like them had been discharged through the Wound .
The outward Opening in this Bag answered in the Cavity of the Abscess , wherein Incision had been made , as this latter was formed between it and the Peritoneum .
In the Bag were found about two Ounces of the same bilious Matter which had all along been discharged ; which being computed , must be equal to , if not exceed , the Quantity of 18 or 20 Quarts , during the 25 Days the Patient lived , from and after the opening of the Tumour .
It has been observed , that the Liver was in a natural State , and that the Matter collected in the Vesica Fellis had not in the least wounded or affected the Liver itself ; so that the great Quantity of Bile and Lymph daily discharged through the Incision , must have proceeded from the internal Surface of the distended Gall-Bladder .
This put us upon inquiring for the Radices Cysticae and Hepati-cystic Ducts ; I mean for those very Ducts which Giovanni Caldesi has so carefully traced in several Animals , and delineated in his Observatione Anatomiche al illustrissimo Sig. Francisco Redi 1687 .
and which Verheyen has discovered in the Bullock Kind , but could not trace in Man ; These Ducts , I say , whereby so great a Quantity of Gall had been deposited in the Vesica Fellis , for as much that the Cystick Duct was obturated , whereby some Anatomists have supposed the Gall to flow back from the Hepatick Ducts ; and upon Dissection , we traced a Trunk like unto that , which Bidloo and Winslow observed in Man ; and resembling that formed by several Branches in the Liver , and discharging itself into the Vesica .
We would gladly have traced this further , but the Time allow 'd for Dissection did not permit us to pursue this Inquiry .
The Ductus Communis Choledochus was found empty , and opening , as usual , into the Cavity of the Duodenum ; but the Cystick Duct was so compressed by the Bag , that nothing could pass through it .
The Spleen , Pancreas , and all the other Viscera , were in a natural State , saving ( as hath been already observed ) that some of them had changed and altered their natural Situations .
Upon the whole it appears , Ist , That the animal Functions have been in no-wise vitiated by some of the Viscera having been displaced ; and notwithstanding that for 25 Days , the Discharge of the Bile through the Wound had been so great , that little was left to pass into the Duodenum , nevertheless he digested his Food well .
The Stools continued regular , till within a few Days before Death , and even to the last the Feces all along retained their natural Colour .
2dly , It may be observed , that the Jaundice in our Patient was not occasioned by the Obstruction of the Cystick Duct , though that is apprehended as a common Cause of this Malady ; for this Obstruction must have been of many Years standing , and our Patient 's Jaundice was of a very late Date .
Nor was his Jaundice owing to any Retention of the Bile in the Porus Biliarius , from the Tumour continually pressing that Duct , and thereby obstructing the free Discharge of the Bile from the Glands of the Liver into the Duodenum and GallBladder ; nor even to the strong Compression and total Obstruction of some , yea almost all the Biliary Ducts , viz. The Porii Biliarii , the Ductus Hepaticus , the Hepati-cystici , and the Ductus-cysticus , and Communis Choledochus , the principal of which are seated in the Concavity of the great Lobe of the Liver , under the Pressure of this great and hard Tumour , and under its Increase for near 14 Years together , Obstructions and Compressions generally accounted as primary and idiopathick Causes of the Jaundice , because no Distemper like the Jaundice had appeared in our Patient till within a few Months before his Death , and no true Jaundice till within a few Weeks , and only then as the Abscess formed in the Neighbourhood of the Liver had brought an Inflammation there ; but as all the Symptoms of his Jaundice began to wear off , soon after the Pus had got a Vent , viz. as the Inflammation of the Liver brought on occasionally by a Suppuration in the Neighbourhood wore off , and some Days before the bursting of the Vesica Fellis , it does not appear unlikely , this Inflammation of the Liver was the Pathognomonick Cause of the Jaundice here ; which Inflammation of the Liver , as it was accidental , so the Jaundice occasioned thereby was actually removed soon after a Vent was made for the purulent Matter which had occasioned this Inflammation .
The Draughts hereunto annexed were done by Memory , we not being permitted to take the Liver out of the Body .
Explanation of the Figures in TA B. II .
FI G. I. A. The external Surface of the Right Lobe of the Liver .
B. B. Parts of the same .
C. C. The Ligament which suspends the Liver to the Diaphragm .
D. D. The Ligament which suspends it to the Cartilago Ensiformis .
E. Part of the Vesica fellis below the Liver in its Fore Part , emptied of its Contents , arising from the Concavity of the Right Lobe , 10 to 12 Inches in Circumference .
F. F. F. F. Its Adhesions to the Peritoneum .
G. An Opening into the External Bag or Abscess , or Incision into it .
H. H. H. H. H. Elongations and Inequalities in it .
O. O. O. O. The Angles of the Cystis opened , showing in its back Parts an Elongation opening into it at P. FI G. II .
A. A. A. The concave Side of the Liver .
B. The Vena umbilicalis .
C. The Vesica biliaria emptied , which when full covered almost all the Inside of the Right Lobe on its back Part .
D. D. D. D. D. D. Several Elongations or Expansions of the Vesica opening into the Gall-Bladder .
E. The cretaceous Bag in its Duplicature full of Chalk , intermix 'd with hard white irregular Stones .

