( Abstract .
) The arrangement observed in the divisions and subdivisions of the bronchial tube is that of a panicle .
There is everywhere to be distinguished a straight diminishing tube , from which lesser tubes are given off alternately from its sides ; these lesser tubes in their turn observe a similar plan of distribution , and the smaller tubes , down to their ultimate terminations , are governed by the same system .
There is nowhere to be founrd either a true dichotomous or a trichotomous division .
The distinction between that part which is bronchial tube and that which is parenchyma , is , in a properly injected lung , marked and very decisive , and can never be mistaken by even the most iniexperienced person , when a fragment , however small , is examined by the microscope .
When the bronchial tubes have reached their penultimate terminations , the coats which form their perimeters split , as it were , into two layers .
The outer of these , which is tougher , thicker , and more fibrous , expands and encloses an ultimate portion of the parenchyma .
To these portions of the lung the name of ' leaflets ' is given in this treatise .
The outer coat of the bronchial tube , by being spread out in the leaflets , becomes continuous with the general parenichyma of the lungs .
The inner portion of the tube immediately divides into numerous minute tubes , to which the name of ' pedicels ' is now given .
Each of the pedicels goes to a different leaflet , but each leaflet receives several pedicels from different terminal bronchial tubes .
A minute anastomosis is thereby established between the terminations of the different bronchial tubes , through the leaflets .
On entering the leaflet , each pedicel splits up into processes which extend to the internal perimeter of the leaflet , and by initersections with similar processes derived from the other pedicels , divide the interior into compartments called ' air-cells .
' Each leaflet is , to a considerable extent , divided from those which surround it by sulci , but it is continuous in structure with them by certain parts of its base , in which it is in contact with them and adherent .
On the surface of the lungs these leaflets give the appearance of bodies of a somewhat quadrilateral shape .
The interior of all the bronchial tubes is marked with ' rugae , ' and these rugme show the direction of the bundles of longitudinal contractile fibres , which are placed immediately beneath the mucous membrane .
These longitudinal fibres are surrounded by circular ones , and it is by the contraction of these latter that the ruge are formed .
When the bronchial tubes have been kept distended , the rugoe are not present ; the mucous membrane is then perfectly smooth .
There are no such things as 'alveoli ' belonging to the tube .
The bronchial artery supplies the following structures : T. The successive layers of cellular tissue , the lymphatic glands , coats of the pulmonary vessels , neurilemma , &amp;c. II .
The fibro-cartilaginous and fibrous portion of the bronchial tubes ; some exceeding , lie minute capillaries , derived from these , extend into the mucous membrane , but do not in any way anastomnose with the proper vascular plexus belonging to this structure .
III .
The bronchial artery also freely supplies the walls and processes of the leaflets with arterial blood .
IV .
Some small branches arrive at the surface of the lungs , being conducted thither by some minute bronchial tubes , which communicate with lolngitudinal air-passages to be found in the substance of the pleura .
These small arteries anastomose freely with other branches of the same artery in the sub-pleural cellular tissue .
The bronchial artery forms no sort of anastomosis with the pulmonary system in any part of the lungs , and is quite incapable of discharging the function of the latter under any circumstances whatever .
The bronchial veins are of two sorts : one forms a very free system of inosculation on the surface of the lungs , the other is always discoverable ( in the recent lung ) in the loose cellular tissue surrounding the bronchial tubes : they both have valves , and consequently cannot be injected in a retrograde direction , but they can both be injected from the bronchial artery .
Neither of them can be injected under any circumstances from the pulmonary system .
They both have large intercommunicating trunks .
The pulmonary artery accompanies the bronchial tube , dividing precisely as it divides ; wherever there is a bronchial tube , however small , there is likewise a corresponding pulmonary artery , and never more than one .
It gives off no branches to any collateral structure , and it forms no inosculations either with its own branches or with any other vessels ; every portion of it ultimately reaches the leaflets , and there it makes a most minute , uniform and equal reticulation , anastomosing throughout the lung .
The pulmonary vein commences by tufts in the interior of the leaflets ; part of the capillary vessels emerges on to the surface of the leaflet , and commences the formation of minute veins , which immediately dip down through the sulci which divide the leaflets , to reach the interlobular surfaces , where they increase in size , and ultimately come into contact with the under surface of a bronchial tube : the other part of the capillary vessels makes its way from the interior of the leaflet by means of the pedicel , and reaches the mucous meinbrane , where a most abundant , minute , and exceedingly regular plexus is formed , occupying the whole surface of the mucous membrane .
This plexus in the larger tubes is reinforced by blood-vessels derived from numerous leaflets which surround the bronchial tubes ; straight vessels penetrate from these leaflets through the walls of the bronchial tubes , to reach the plexus in the mucous membrane .
On the external surface of the bronchial tubes , numerous radiating vessels collect the blood from the plexus in the mucous membrane , and the trunks of these radiating vessels soon terminate in the veins , already described as coming into contact with the under surface of the bronchial tube .
The vessels which have been alluded to as receiving their tributaries in the interlobular surfaces , collect their blood from all the surrounding lobules ; consequently the blood which reaches the vein placed in contact with a particular bronichial tube , is not derived exclusively from the same lobules as those with which that bronchial tube and its accompanying artery are in coinexion , but it receives its blood from all parts of the lungs promiscuously .
The pulmonary veins accompanying the bronchial tubes continue to increase in size in proportion as the tubes themselves increase , and finally they terminate in the large veins which enter the left auricle .

