I. " On the Influence of Heated Terrestrial Surfaces in disturbing the Atmosphere .
" By THOMAS HOPKINs , Esq. Communicated by WILLIAM FAIRBAIRN , Esq. Received April 13 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author stated that the Iadleian theory of winds , which is now the one generally recognized , is not supported by the evidence of facts , but rests on assumptions founded on imaginary effects of the partial expansion of the atmospheric gases by heat .
It is assumed in that theory , that when the tropical heat expands these gases , they rise and flow away laterally in the higher regions towards the poles , from which they return to the tropics in the lower regions .
But it was contended by the writer of the paper , that such heating of the gases merely expands them , without making them rise and overflow to other parts .
The theory of Halley , once generally adopted , represented that the air was greatly heated in the particular part where the sun was nearly vertical , which made the air rise in that part alone , admitting cooler air to flow into the place of that which had ascended , and produced an influx of cool air below , from all parts around , to the heated part , and an overflow above from it .
But in time experieince showed that this hypothesis was not in accordance with facts , and it was abandoned .
The theory of Hadley , which has been since adopted , substitutes the whole tropical belt , for the heated locality of Halley , which travelled with the sun in his daily course ; but the supposed rise of air in the tropical belt , with an overflow above and an influx below , was asserted to be equally unsupported by experience , and , being unproved , may be fallacious .
The rise of heated air in a chimney , sometimes pointed at as an illustration , was shown to be not analogous to that which takes place when the sun heats the air unequally in different latitudes ; if it were , the theory of Halley would be true , and cool air would flow from all parts around to the greatly heated locality , just as cool air passes to a fire , and , when heated , up a chimney .
It was then shown that it is gravitation which establishes an equilibrium of pressure in the atmosphere , and that direct solar heating of the surface of the earth and the air near to it , does not destroy that equilibrium .
The sun by heating the gases merely expands them , in proportion to the increase of temperature in the part near the surface , and the gases over every portion of the hemisphere that is exposed to the action of the sun is proportionally heated , expanded and raised without any overflow of air taking place ; leaving the equilibrium of pressure undisturbed by such heating .
The solar heat merely raises the air that is near the surface , over the most heated latitudes , a little higher than the adjoining less heated , the difference in the rise in the various latitudes , from the polar to the tropical regions , being successively small ; and as there is no alteration produced in the weight of any vertical column of the atmosphere , in any latitude , there is neither overflow of air above , nor disturbance of the equilibrium of pressure .
The great disturbances that take place in the atmosphere were then maintained to be caused by the heat which is conveyed , from the surface of the globe , in vapour to different parts of the atmosphere at various heights , and liberated in those parts when the vapour is condensed into liquid .
This liberation of heat creates ascending currents in the parts locally affected , when horizontal winds , produced by gravitation , blow over the surface towards the ascending currents to re-establish the disturbed equilibrium .
This process , by heating the air in the middle regions , was asserted to have been proved to be the cause , not only of the great trade-winds and the monsoons , but of the storms and local winds over the different regions of the globe .

