366 Mr. R. Mallet on the alleged [ June 11 , III .
" On the alleged Expansion in Volume of various Substances in passing by Refrigeration from the state of Liquid Fusion to that of Solidification .
" By Robert Mallet , C.E. , F.R.S. Received April 28 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Since the time of Reaumur it has been stated , with very various degrees of evidence , that certain metals expand in volume at or near their points of consolidation from fusion .
Bismuth , cast iron , antimony , silver , copper , and gold are amongst the number , and to these have recently been added certain iron furnace-slags .
Considerable physical interest attaches to this subject from the analogy of the alleged facts to the well-known one that water expands between 39 ' F. and 32 ' , at which it becomes ice ; and a more extended interest has been given to it quite recently by Messrs. Nasmyth and Carpenter having made the supposed facts , more especially those relative to cast iron and to slags , the foundation of their peculiar theory of lunar volcanic action as developed in their work , 'The Moon as a Planet , as a World , and a Satellite ' ( 4to , London , 1874 ) .
There is considerable ground for believing that bismuth does expand in volume at or near consolidation ; but with respect to all the other substances supposed to do likewise , it is the object of this paper to show that the evidence is insufficient , and that with respect to cast iron and to the basic silicates constituting iron slags , the allegation of their expansion in volume , and therefore that their density when molten is greater than when solid , is wholly erroneous .
The determination of the specific gravity , in the liquid state , of a body having so high a fusing temperature as cast iron is attended with many difficulties .
By an indirect method , however , and operating upon a sufficiently large scale , the author has been enabled to make the determination with considerable accuracy .
A conical vessel of wrought iron of about 2 feet in depth and 1*5 foot diameter of base , and with an open neck of 6 inches in diameter , being formed , was accurately weighed empty , and also when filled with water level to the .
brim ; the weight of its contents in water , reduced to the specific gravity of distilled water at 60 ' F. , was thus obtained .
The vessel being dried was now filled to the brim with molten grey cast iron , additions of molten metal being made to maintain the vessel full until it had attained its maximum temperature ( yellow heat in daylight ) and maximum capacity .
The vessel and its content of cast iron when cold were weighed again , and thus the weight of the cast iron obtained .
The capacity of the vessel when at a maximum was calculated by applying to its dimensions at 60 ' the expansion calculated from the coefficient of linear dilatation , as given by Laplace , Riemann , and others , and from its range of increased temperature ; and the weight of distilled water held by the vessel thus ex1874 .
] Expansion of various Substances on Solidification .
367 panded was calculated from the weight of its contents when the vessel and water were at 60 ' F. We have now , after applying some small corrections , the elements necessary for determining the specific gravity of the cast iron which filled the vessel when in the molten state , having the absolute weights of equal volumes of distilled water at 60 ' and of molten iron .
The mean specific gravity of the cast iron wThich filled the vessel was then determined by the usual methods .
The final result is that , whereas the specific gravity of the cast iron at 60 ' F. was 7'170 , it was only 6*650 when in the molten condition ; cast iron , therefore , is less dense in the molten than in the solid state .
Nor does it expand in volume at the instant of consolidation , as was conclusively proved by another experiment .
Two similar 10-inch spherical shells , 1*5 inch in thickness , were heated to nearly the same high temperature in an oven , one being permitted to cool empty as a measure of any permanent dilatation which both might sustain by mere heating and cooling again , a fact well known to occur .
The other shell , when at a bright red heat , was filled with molten cast iron and permitted to cool , its dimensions being taken by accurate instruments at intervals of 30 minutes , until it had returned to the temperature of the atmosphere ( 53 ' F. ) , when , after applying various corrections , rendered necessary by the somewhat complicated conditions of a spherical mass of cast iron losing heat from its exterior , it was found that the dimensions of the shell , whose interior surface was in perfect contact with that of the solid ball which filled it , were , within the limit of experimental error , those of the empty shell when that also was cold ( 53 ' F. ) , the proof being conclusive that no expansion in volume of the contents of the shell had taken place .
The central portion was much less dense than the exterior , the opposite of what must have occurred had expansion in volume on cooling taken place .
It is a fact , notwithstanding what precedes , and is well known to iron-founders , that certain pieces of cold cast iron do float on molten cast iron of the same quality , though they cannot do so through their buoyancy .
As various sorts of cast iron vary in specific gravity at 60 ' F. , from nearly 7*700 down to 6*300 , and vary also in dilatability , some cast irons may thus float or sink in molten cast iron of different qualities from themselves through buoyancy or negative buoyancy alone ; but where the cold cast iron floats upon molten cast iron of less specific gravity than itself , the author shows that some other force , the nature of which yet remains to be investigated , keeps it floating ; this the author has provisionally called the repellent force , and has showm that its amount is , cceteris paribus , dependent upon the relation that subsists between the volume and " effective " surface of the floating piece .
By " effective " surface is meant all such part of the immersed solid as is in a horizontal plane or can be reduced to one .
The repellent force has also relations to the difference in temperature between the solid and the molten metal on which it floats .
368 Dr. B. Sanderson on the Excitation of the [ June II , The author then extends his experiments to lead , a metal known to contract greatly in solidifying , and , with respect to which , no one has suggested that it expands at the moment of consolidation .
He finds that pieces of lead having a specific gravity of 11*361 , and being at 70 ' F. , float or sink upon molten lead of the same quality , whose calculated specific gravity was 11*07 , according to the relation that subsists between the volume and the " effective " surface of the solid piece , thin pieces with large surface always floating , and vice .
An explanation is offered of the true cause of the ascending and descending currents observed in very large " ladles " of liquid cast iron , as stated by Messrs. Nasmyth and Carpenter .
The facts are shown to be in accordance* with those above mentioned , and when rightly interpreted to be at variance with the views of these authors .
Lastly , the author proceeds to examine the statements made by these writers , as to the floating of lumps of solidified iron furnace-slag upon the same when in a molten state ; he examines the conditions of the alleged facts , and refers to his own experiments upon the total contraction of such slags , made at Barrow Iron-works ( a full account of which he has given in his paper on " The true Nature and Origin of Volcanic Heat and Energy , " printed in Phil. Trans. 1873 ) , as conclusively proving that such slags are not denser in the molten than in the solid state , and that the floating referred to is due to other causes .
The author returns thanks to several persons for facilities liberally afforded him in making these experiments .
IV .
" Note on the Excitation of the Surface of the Cerebral Hemispheres by Induced Currents .
" By J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Practical Physiology in University College , London .
Received April 30 , 1874 .
In a paper recently communicated to the Royal Society by Dr. Ferrier ( Proceedings , No. 151 ) it is shown that when two ends of copper wire distant from each other not more than a couple of millimetres , and in metallic communication with the terminals of the secondary coil of a Du Bois 's induction-apparatus in action , are applied to certain spots of the surface of either hemisphere , and great intensity is given to the induced currents thereby directed through the living tissue , by previously bringing the secondary coil into such a position that it is very close to the primary coil or even partially covers it , characteristic combined movements of the opposite side of the body are produced .
With reference to these effects , it was observed by Dr. Ferrier ( 1 ) that excitation of the same spot always produces the same movement in the same animal , ( 2 ) that the area of excitability for any given movement ( or , as it may be called for shortness , active spot ) is extremely small and admits of very accurate definition , and ( 3 ) that in different animals

