VI .
" Contributions to the History of Aniline , Azobenzole and Benzidine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received May 30 , 1855 .
The transformation of nitrobenzole into aniline by the action of sulphuretted hydrogen is attended with such difficulties and requires especially so much time , that chemists hitherto have generally preferred to prepare this base from indigo .
Lately a new modification of Zinin 's process has been adopted by M. A. B6echamp* , which consists in submitting nitrobenzole to the reducing action of acetate of protoxide of iron .
This process-M .
Bechamp simply uses a mixture of iron and acetic acid-is applicable to all nitro-compounds , and has been extensively tried with the most perfect success in the laboratory of the Royal College of Chemistry .
The facility of the process , its rapidity , and the large amount of product it yields in most cases , cannot fail materially to assist the study of the volatile organic bases .
During these experiments several observations were made , which I beg leave to bring under the notice of the Society .
When employing about double the amount of iron which is recommended by M. B6champ ( 2'5 instead of 1'2 of iron to 1 part of nitrobenzole ) , Mr. Alfred Noble found that the latter portion of the distillate solidified partly in the receiver and partly in the condenser .
Washed with hydrochloric acid from adhering aniline , and once or twice recrystallized from boiling alcohol , the solid matter was obtained in fine crystals of a yellowish-red colour , and fusing below the boiling-point of water .
These crystals possessed all the properties of azobenzole , which was moreover identified by combustion .
0'260 gramme of substance gave 0'755 grm. of carbonic acid and 0*134 grm. of water .
The well-established formula of azobenzole , C , , H5 N , requires the following values:-Theory .
Equivalents .
Per-centage .
Experiment , Carbon ... ..o 12 79'12 79-12 Hydrogen ... 5 5*49 5-76 Nitrogen ... . .
1 15-39 100 00 The azobenzole obtained in this manner is so readily purified that this process is greatly preferable to the action of alcoholic potassa upon nitrobenzole , since the latter process simultaneously produces several substances which can be separated only with difficulty from the azobenzole .
A portion of the azobenzole obtained in the above process was converted by means of sulphuretted hydrogen into benzidine .
Of the beautifully crystallized compound , a platinum salt was made which was analysed by Mr. Noble .
0-268 grm. of the salt left 0'088 grn. =32-88 per cent. of platinum .
The formula C12 Hl N , HC1 ; Pt C1 , requires 33'09 per cent. of platinum .
Benzidine exhibits a very interesting deportment with nitrous acid ; gently warmed in the gas of this acid , obtained by treatment of starch with nitric acid , it gives rise to a powerful reaction .
The substance assumes an orange-red colour , and exhibits , after treatment with water , when recrystallized from alcohol , all the properties of azobenzole .
The reproduction of this body from benzidine was moreover fixed in the following numbers ; 0'215 grm. of substance gave 0'623 grm. of carbonic acid , and 0'112 grm. of water .
Theory .
Experiment .
( C12 H5 N ) .
Carbon ... ... 79-12 79-02 Hydrogen ... .
5-49 5-78 Nitrogen ... .
15-39 100'00 The simplest formulae of azobenzole and benzidine only differ by one equivalent of hydrogen , Azobenzole ... . .
C , H5 N Benzidine ... ... C12H6N , a relation which sufficiently explains the transformation and reproduction of azobenzole , 2

