Astronomical Observations and Experiments tending to investigate the local Arrangement of the Celestial Bodies in Space , and to determine the Extent and Condition of the Milky Way .
By Sir William Herschel , Knt. Guelp .
LL. D. F.R.S. Read June 19 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 302 .
] The construction of the heavens , in which the real place of every celestial object in space is to be determined , can only be delineated with precision when we have the situation of each heavenly body assigned in three dimensions , which , says the author , in the case of the visible universe , may be called longitude , latitude , and profundity .
The angular positions of the stars given in astronomical catalogues , and on globes and maps , may enable us to find them by the eye or telescope ; but their distance remains unknown ; and unless a proper method for obtaining the profundity of objects can be found , their longitude and latitude will not enable us to assign their local arrangement in space .
The method of parallaxes has succeeded with regard to objects comparatively near .
The parallax of the fixed stars has also been an object of attention ; and although the investigation has hitcherto produced nothing satisfactory , it has given us a magnificent idea of the vast extent of the sidereal heavens , by showing that probably the whole diameter of the earth 's orbit , at the distance of a star of the first magnitude , does not subtend an angle of more than a single second of a degree .
To stars of a smaller size the parallactic method admits of no application .
Sir William Herschel proceeds to consider the local situations of the stars , and proposes a standard by which their relative arrangement may be examined ; that is , by comparing their distribution to a certain properly modified equality of scattering , in which it is not required either that the stars should be equidistant from each other , or that those of the same nominal magnitude should be equally distant from us .
A certain equal portion of space is allotted to every star , so that we may thus calculate how mrany stars any given ex/ 7 tent of space should contain .
This arrangement is further explained by reference to an annexed diagram .
Sir William Herschel next compares the order of magnitudes with the order of distances , the result of which is , that if the order of magnitudes could indicate the distance of the stars , it would denote at first a gradual , and then a very abrupt condensation of them ; but that , considering the principle upon which the stars are classed , their arrangement into magnitudes can only apply to certain relative distances ; and show that , taking the stars of each class one with another , those of the succeeding magnitudes are further from us than the stars of the preceding order .
In the fourth and fifth sections of this paper , the means of ascertaining the profundity or local situation of the celestial objects in space , and the equalization of star light are discussed ; and these are succeeded by a series of observations on the extent of natural and telescopic vision , and their application to the probable arrangement of the heavenly bodies in space .
This paper concludes with a series of observations on the extent and construction of the Milky Way ; which , with his former observations , the author is inclined to think will contain nearly all the general knowledge we can ever have of this magnificent collection of stars .

