]\gt ; The oPressxvres .
155 metres in the summer .
In the case of strong winds there was no reversal in the first 32 metres .
In the case of Potsdam observations , it was found that the of the ' reyersal was less than 41 metres for light winds and reater for strong 1 winds .
In the case of light winds in summer , there is a lnaximum at midday at Potsdam , but it is smaller thau the maximum which occurs at midnight .
It appears , as a result of these calculations , that variation in ] by an amount which fits in well with all the other known data the turbulent motion of the air near the round is sufficient to explain , both qualitatively and quantitatively , all the facts concerning d , aily variation of wind velocity at different heights above the ground ) are brought to by Dr. Hellmann 's observations .
he of Pressurcs .
L. TSHOItN , B.Sc. , A.R.C.S. Communicated Strutt , Reccived September Introduction .
This work was undertaken , up a suggestion made by Lord De St. Venant and Wantzel in 1839 stated , as a result of their experiments , that when gas was discharged through an olifice from a vessel in which the pressure was , into one in which the pressure , then the of was sensibly constant fronn upwards to or , but hcn , as fulther increases , the falls off , slowl !
' at first , afterwards with great rapidity .
In borne Peynolds quoted some experiments which seemed to that the flow remained constant from or explained this by pointing out that the maximu1n " " reduced velocity\ldquo ; occurs when the actual velocity coincides with that of sound under the conditions then prevailing , as then the effect of a further reduction of pressure in recipient vessel cannot be propagated backwards against the stream .
lf ument suggests that for a nozzle ending abruptly at the narrowest part , the discharge reaches a maximum when the pressure in 'Phil .
Mag vol. 32 , p. 178 recipient vessel falls to and tlJell remains constant .
Lord } pointed out the importance of with more accuracy than has 156 Ltrue .
erent erto been obtained the extent to which this constancy of flow for different values of is He for this purpose the arrangement inlicated diagrammatically in fig. 1 .
A is the nozzle , the reclplent vessel , which is partially exhausted .
The passage from the external air to the vessel is somewhat choked and thus the reading of the pressure gauge is a measure of the discharge .
The discharge is absorbed by a powerful airpump , communicating with by the passage If the flow remain constant in spite of variations in the pressure in , then the reading of will remain constant .
of Apparatus .
The details of the actual apparatus used are shown in fig. 2 .
The nozzle was fitted into a brass tube a little more than a centimetre in diameter .
The receiving vessel the discharging vessel were made out of glass tubing 4 cm .
in diameter .
The tube the nozzle was fitted into these by means of rubbet corks .
The pressure in was measured by means of the straight manometer tube and the barometer tube K. The difference S of ' lIigh Prcssl between the pressure in and the cspheric pressure was measured by means of the could be cut off by means of the tap T. The small variations in this pressul.e were ] lred by observing the meniscus of the oil in the tube L. The lower end of this tube dipped into a wide vessel of oil , so that for small variations whole change was by the in level of oil i11 the tube .
These changes were measured by means of a microscope a scale in the eyepiece .
is a cylinder of thin brass , 23 .
long and of cm .
diameter .
It was tightly packed with discs of copper gauze , which completely filled the tnbe .
It was placed in a large bath of water at the temperature of the oratory , and was connected to the elltrance of the vessel by glass into rubber corks .
The other end of this cylinder with the glass tube , which contained a plug of cotton-wool .
Thus the air passed the tube , then the auze in into the discharging vessel .
It then passed through the nozzle into the vessel , and then to the ) through the bottle which served to steady the pressure in B. The choking at the entrance to was supplied partly by the gauze in and partly by the cotton wool in N. The latter also served to filter out the dust .
The pump used was a Lennox vacuum pump driven by a 2 H.P. motor .
In the first ) erimentsM and were not used and the wtlb supplied by a piece of capillary tubing fitting into the cork O. The llozzle in these riments consisted of a thin plate with a small hole in it .
This plate was soldered on to the end of the brass tube .
these conditions accurate measurement was found to be impossible to the fact that the level of the oil in was not steady even when the pressure in constant .
The nges were of two kinds : ( 1 ) a slow regular fall of the meniscus , ( 2 ) rapid and irregular fluctuations of the level .
The slow change was found to be due to the cooling effect at the nozzle .
When the ratus was ieft for some time , this slow gradually got slower and slower , and finally the mean position of the meniscus became constant , the there fluctuations still persisted .
When the brass nozzle was replaced by one draw1l down from silica which has a small coefficient of expansion , this slow did not occur .
The ular fluctuations were , however , just as bad as they were with the brass nozzle .
It was found that htly w the air caused quute a considerable change of level in , and this led to the suspicion that the fluctuations were due to the non-uniformity of the air the apparatus .
The most probable source of any such temperature variation was the Mr. L. Hartshorn .
tUlP , which , -cooled , became after working for some steps were to draw the air from the part of the room the ) .
was the purpose of , which length .
A rovement in the steadiness of the was in this way .
Additional improvement obtained by the use of the cylinder of auze immersed in a lar , bath of at the telnperature of the laboratory .
This served to mix the air and to kecl ) it at the room temperature .
It should be the oil fumes from the pun1p were ] into a fume cupboard , as , il ftlly chance minated the air drawn through the apparatus , the result was ation of oil in the .
The air used was not specially dried .
Jfctl , ) of wing to the difficulty of silica to an exactly predetermined shape , it decided to use .
The sample obtained had a coefficient 0 pansion 1 than of silica , that the slow change in the oil-gauge , due tion in the size of the with temperature , was quite appreciable .
FUl .
there there were also ] due to expansion or contraction of the manometer oil with slow changes in the roo1n temperature .
error due to this avoided by proceeding as follo .
The pnmp was set working so as to cxhaust as far as possible .
The amount of cboking then adjusted , by varying the amount of cotton wool in , until the reading of reached a convenient value .
The pressure in was then slightly increased the tap which communicated with the atmosphere .
When the pressure in and had become steady , the tap was closed , thus restoring the original low ) ressure in B. The level of the oil in was continually watched by means of the cope and any change lloted .
This was now repeated for a still pressure in , and so on .
In each case the pressure in was restored to its original value , so that in each case the total was measul.ed , and as the change only occupied a few seconds , there could be no errol to slow of level in with ternperaturc .
were taken until the change in level was too large to measured on the microscope scale .
The nozzles nladc out of a rod of mm. in diameter .
They soldered into brass collar , which in was soldered into a length of brass tube .
Thus it was quite easy ) from one nozzle to another .
rfhe val.iousshRpes used are shown in .
No. 1 consists of a arallel hole of diamelel and 7 mm. long .
No. 2 is a parallel hole The Discharge of under High Pressures .
of about the same diameter , but only about 1 mm. long .
No. 3 is really \amp ; a hole in a thin plate , the edges being almost sharp .
The remainder are No 5 .
No 2 \amp ; FIG. 3 .
all opensd out similarly at the entrance end .
No. 4 is cut off at the narrowest part .
To make this a parallel hole was first bored , then one end opened out , and the other end ground down until the hole just to larger , the measurement of its diameter being made with the micro .
Nos. 5 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 end in divergent cones of angles and respectively .
The length of the conical portion is about 2 cm .
in each case .
No. 6 ends in a parallel hole .
All the llozzles were tested to make sure of their being crht ab the the hole with the finger and into the nozzle with the , the end of the nozzle being under water .
The minimum diameter was in each case measured by means of the cathetometer microscope , using the eyepiece scale .
In the case of llozzles in divergent cones the diameter at the basc of the colle was measured in the same way , and the distance between these two diameters was tained by measuring the distance through which it was necessary to advance the microscope in order to the focus from one to the other .
The angle of the cone was deduced from these measurements .
The values are shown in Table I. VOL. XCIV .
Mr. L. Hartshorn .
Table I. It has been mentioned that the chief source of trouble in the experiment was the umsteadiness of the of the oil-gauge , the irregular variations in particular .
Further , we have seen that these were largely due to variations in the temperature of the air flowing through the nozzle .
They wer ' not entirely due to this , however , for the readings were much steadier with some nozzles than with others , other conditions being exactly the same .
In no case were the readings perfectly steady .
Nozzle No. 3 the best results , the variations in this case being very minute .
No. 4 gave the least steady readings .
The others were about equally The scale in the eyepiece of the microscope had 50 divisions , and 30 of these corresponded to inch ( or to 1 cm The pressure registered by the oil-gauge was about 17 inches ( or 43 cm .
) of oil in each case , so that one diyision on the microscope scale corresponded to about per cent. of the whole pressure .
Owing to the irregular variations mentioned above , it was not always possible to read the variations correct to less than one division on the microscope scale , though in nearly all cases it was possible to detect a total variation of half a division , and in many cases of less than this .
jsults .
The results are shown in Table II , where is the pressure in the disvessel .
It is equal to the atmospheric pressure diminished by the pressure indicated by the oil-gauge .
It is considered constant , as the valiations in the .
are much too .
small to need taking account of in the ratio is the pressure in the receiving vessel , and is given by the difference of the readings of the mercury columns and ( fig. 2 ) .
These readings were only taken correct to the nearest millimetre , further accuracy being unnecessary owing to the errors involved The of Gases under High Pressures .
PRESSURE IN RECEIVING ESSEL FIG. 6 .
Discussion of Results .
It will be seen from the curves that the fact that the discharge is independent of the pressure in the receiving vessel , when this is less than a certain fraction of that in the discharging vessel , is amply verified by the experiments .
In each case the flow was constant , probably to within per cent. , for a considerable of , the pressure in the receiver .
The experiments also show that we cannot accept the theoretical value of this critical pressure below which the flow from a convergent nozzle remains constant , viz. , as applying to all nozzles ; indeed , we cannot accept any particular value as applying even approximately to all nozzles .
In some cases the value is as low as , and in others it is as great as .
The value holds very approximately , however , for all the nozzles tried except the divergent ones .
Those ending in divergent cones all have higher values , and the value increases as the angle of the cone decreases from large values down to about .
In this case the critical pressure is about .
As the angle of the cone is further decreased the value of the critical pressure seems to decrease .
For an angle of it is about , and when the angle becomes zero , i.e. , for a parallel hole , we obtain the value It seemed ible that these results might be of practical importance in connection with turbine nozzles .
Accordingly , in order to ascertain whether the phenomena were very considerably modified in nozzles of diameter , No. 11 was made with a diameter as as the pump Relation between ometric Pressure TVater-level .
165 would allow .
The flow of air was then so that the cylinder of gauze oduced too much choking to a convenient of the auge , and it had to be removed , so that the choking was then supplied by the tube connecting and ( fig. 2 ) and a very small piece of cotton-wool in Even under these conditions the of the were fairly steady with this .
The first reading of was of course not very low in this case , but it is seen to lie well on the horizontal portion of the curve .
The result for the nozzle of larger diameter is seen to be practically the that for a smaller one of the same shape .
In conclusion I wish to thank Prof. the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , for on lnany points , and for the keen interest } has taken vork thronghout its ress .
On the Relation between Barometric Pressure the Water-level in a Well , Richmond .
By E. G. BILHAII , A.li .
C.Sc .
, D.I.C. , B.Sc. , F.R. .
Soc. Communicated Napier Received October I. oductory .
The investigation which the subject of the present communication must be regarded as forming part of a general inquiry into the mode of actionl of the well at Kew Observatory , Richmond .
The well was sunk during the course of some extensive alterations to the building about four years ago , and the water-level has been continuously recorded since the end of July , 1914 .
The mean level for each day expressed in centimetres above ance Datum has been published in the 'Geophysical Journal , ' and the extreme values for each month have usually been given in the Monthly Weather Report .
After being in action for two years , it was thought able to undertake a somewhat detailed examination of the records which had accumulated .
The most feature of the inquiry proved to be the periodic variations of .
level , which were to be attributed to the tidal oscillations of the neighbouring River Thames .
The most noteworthy response of the well was found in the case of the lunar fortnightly oscillation , which could , indeed , be plainly seen by merely plotting successive daily mean levels on a fairly open scale .
The solar and lunar diurnal , semi-diurnal , ter-diurnal , , oscillations were

