Presents .
1893 .
] due to the form taken by the bubble .
The figures on the diagram roughly represent the appearance of the bubble corresponding to the different points where they are placed .
The small bubble on the left passes up rapidly .
As larger volumes of air are taken to form the bubble the velocity falls to a minimum , at which point the bubble is almost spherical in shape .
With further additions of air , the spherical form gives way to one pointed at top .
Again more air swells out the top and gives the bubble a somewhat dumb-bell appearance .
For this and the spherical form the velocity is a minimum .
In these instances the ratio of the resistance of the annular channel to the flow-past of the liquid compared to the driving pressure is a maximum .
The intermediate shape being pointed at top gains an increased pressure head without a corresponding increase in resistance .
The various forms assumed by the bubbles remind one of the well-known initial shapes taken on the formation of liquid drops .
Similar curves were obtained with other sized tubes , the phenomenon being rather more marked in the case of the smaller sizes .
Other liquids were found to behave in a like way when used either as the substance of the column or for constituting the bubble itself .
The curve in the diagram exhibits the general behaviour of the bubbles , but occasionally an anomalous determination of velocity will be obtained ; this is accompanied by the bubble having also an anomalous form .
That is to say , a volume of air a little in excess of that corresponding to the spherical stage , instead of assuming a pointed form at top , will retain a spherical form , and as a consequence will travel very slowly .
V. " On the Metallurgy of Lead .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.I.C. Communicated by Sir G. G. Stokes , F.R.S. Received April 15 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presents , June 1 , 1893 .
Transactions .
Boston :\#151 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Proceedings .
Yol .
XIX .
8vo .
Boston 1893 .
The Academy .
Briinn :\#151 ; Naturforschender Verein .
Bericht der Meteorologischen Commission .
No. 10 .
8vo .
Briinn 1892 .
The Society .
Essex Field Club :\#151 ; The Essex Naturalist .
Vol. VII .
Nos. 1\#151 ; 3 .
8vo .
Buckhurst Hill 1893 .
The Club .

