A paper was read , entitled " On the Reduction of the Thermometrical Observations made at the Apartments of the Royal Society from the year 1774 to 1781 , and from the year 1787 to 1843 .
" By James Glaisher , Esq. of the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
Communicated by John Lee , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. In this paper , the author states that he has examined all the thermometrical observations which have been made at the Apartments of the Royal Society , with the view of ascertaining whether the diurnal variations at different epochs were in accordance with those which he had determined from the Greenwich observations , and which are contained in his paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1848 .
The result of this investigation was , that the corrections contained in the tables in his former paper were applicable to the observations of all the years since 1774 .
The author is led from these examinations to the conclusion,1st , that the instruments used have been uniformly good ; 2ndly , that the observations have been faithfully recorded as read from the instruments ; 3rdly , that the readings have been taken with great care with respect to the times stated ; and lastly , that the observations were well-worth the necessary labour of reduction .
He finds , however , that some of the more recent observations of the self-registering instruments are liable to some uncertaintyo Having satisfied himself that the observations were well-worth any amount of labour that might be bestowed on them , the author was anxious to reduce them to a useful form , but , in consequence of the great amount of work that would be required for the reduction of so extensive a series , he for some time hesitated to enter upon this labour .
Finding however that there was a demand for the results of trustworthy observations extending backwards many years , and having , besides , the hope of connecting the Greenwich series of observations with these , he determined to perform the work .
He states that the mean temperature of every month was determined in the first instance from the observations which had been made during the day , and secondly , from the observations of the self-registering instruments .
Tables are appended to the paper , showing the monthly , quarterly and yearly mean temperatures , with those of groups of years , and other tables exhibiting the departure of every individual result from the mean of all .
The author concludes by stating , that hitherto the mean temperature at Somerset House has been estimated a great deal too high .
lie does not here enter into the investigation as to whiether the ternperature as now determined is too high for the geographical position and elevation of Somerset House , but proposes to do so , in a paper he is preparing with the view of connecting the Somerset House with the Greenwich series , and of bringing up all the results to the present time .
He hopes also , at some future time , to present results from the barometrical observations arranged in a similar manner .

