XX .
" Researches on the Foraminifera."-Part III .
On the Genera Peneroplis , Operculina , and Amphistegina .
By W. B. CARPENTER , M.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 17 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In his preceding memoirs , the author has shown that two very dissimilar types of structure present themselves among Foraminifera , one characterized by its simplicity , the other by its complexity .
In the former , of which Orbitolites , Orbiculina , and Alveolina are typical examples , the calcareous skeleton does not present any definite indications of organization , but seems to have been formed by the simple calcification of a portion of the homogeneous sarcode-body of the animal ; that sarcode-body is but very imperfectly divided into segments , the communications between the cavities occupied by these segments being very free and irregular ; the form of the segments themselves , and the mode of their connexion , are alike inconstant ; and even the plan of growth , on which the character of the organism as a whole depends , though preserving a general uniformity , is by no means invariably maintained .
In the latter , to which Cycloclypeus and Heterostegina belong , the calcareous skeleton is found to present a very definite and elaborate organization .
The several segments of the body are so completely separated from each other , that they remain connected only by delicate threads of sarcode .
Each segment thus isolated has its own proper calcareous envelope , which seems to be moulded ( as it were ) upon it ; and this envelope or shell is perforated with minute parallel tubuli closely resembling those of dentine , except in the absence of bifurcation ; the partition-walls between adjacent segments are consequently double , and are strengthened by an intermediate calcareous deposit , which is traversed by a system of inosculating passages that seems properly to belong to it .
The form of the segments , their mode of communication , and consequently the general plan of growth , have a very considerable degree of constancy ; and altogether the tendency is strongly manifested in this type to the greater individualization of the parts of the composite body , which in the preceding must be looked upon rather as constituting one aggregate whole .
In the present memoir this contrast is fully carried out by a detailed comparison of two characteristic examples from these types respectively , each of them having its own features of peculiar interest .
In Peneroplis we find , both as to the simplicity of the structure of the shell , and the general disposition of the segments of the animal , a close resemblance to the spiral forms of Orbiculina ; the only difference being the absence of the transverse or secondary divisions of the chambers .
In what is considered its typical form , the shell is a flattened spire , opening out widely in its last whorl ; and the chambers communicate with each other ( as does the last chamber with the exterior ) by single rows of isolated pores disposed at regular intervals along the septa .
But the spire is occasionally found to be more turgid , and the rows of apertures to become doubled ; and instead of opening out in the last whorl , it is frequently prolonged in a rectilineal direction .
In tropical seas there are found minute shells resembling those of Peneroplis in their very characteristic external markings , but having a very turgid spire , and having the row of pores in each septum replaced by a single large orifice with irregularly radiating prolongations .
This type of structure has been characterized by M. d'Orbigny as a separate genus , under the name of Dendritina ; and when its spire , as in many forms of Peneroplis , is continued rectilineally , it has been distinguished as a third genus under the name Spirolina .
The author shows , by an extensive comparison of individuals , that the single dendritic orifice is to be regarded as formed by the coalescence of separate pores ; and that the extension of these into a single line , or their aggregation into a cluster , is related to the form of the septal plane , as determined by the degree of flattening or of turgescence of the spire .
Consequently in his view Dendritina and Spirolina are but varieties of Peneroplis ; the former , which are by far the largest and the most highly developed , being of tropical growth , whilst the most flattened forms of the latter are the com paratively stunted inhabitants of the Mediterranean and other seas of less elevated temperature .
In Operculina , on the other hand , we find the shell presenting the minutely tubular structure which was first shown by the author to exist in Nummulites ; to which genus Operculina is so closely allied in structure , that the only positive difference between them seems to lie in the tendency of Operculina to open out widely in the last whorl , whilst Nummulites ( according to MM .
d'Archiac and Hlaime ) tends to close in .
The author minutely describes the structure of Operculina , which presents a very remarkable development of the canaliferous system ; he also enters into a detailed inquiry into the relation of the numerous strongly-marked varieties of form which it presents , -a question of much importance in regard to the value of the characters of the reputed species among Nummulites ; and shows that the range of individual variation in form and surfacemarkings is so wide ( as is proved by the gradational transitions which present themselves between what at first sight appear to be widely-separated types ) , that only where some very decided and constant difference of internal conformation presents itself , will it be safe to assume a specific diversity .
In one case , in which he had thought that a certain series of specimens was sufficiently distinguished by its peculiar physiognomy from the rest , residual forms presented themselves which could not be with certainty assigned to either type , so completely do they link together the two by the softening down of the peculiarities of each .
And a yet more remarkable link of connexion is established by examples collected on the coast of Japan by the American expedition to that country , in which the most distinctive characters of each type are curiously combined .
Closely related to Operculina is another genus , Amphistegina , which bears an equally near resemblance to Nummulites , though it has been completely separated from both in the classification of M. d'Orbigny , who has placed it in a distinct order , Entomostegues , on account of the unsymmetrical form of its shell and the alternating disposition of its chambers .
But the author has founid , from an extensive comparison of individuals , that this want of symmetry is so little constant , as to be altogether valueless in a systematic point of view , many specimens being perfectly symmetrical , whilst others are very far from being so , and every gradation presenting itself between these two extremes .
The most common among existing species is the Amphistegina gibbosa , which is very extensively diffused through the tropical ocean , and which , though generally of small size , acquires in the Philippine region dimensions nearly equal to those of the fossil Amphistegina of the Vienna and other tertiary deposits .
But Mr. Cuming 's Philippine collection contains another and far larger species , which is distinguished by the extraordinary thinning-out of the lastwhorl ; and it is remarkable that in this species the canal-system is highly developed , although completely absent in A. gibbosa , -a difference of structure , which , going along with very close resemblance in external aspect and general conformation , seems only to be accounted for on the supposition that the difference in size requires a difference in the arrangement of the nutrient apparatus .

