356 Messrs. De La Rue , Muller , and Spottiswoode on [ Apr. , and Rhytiphlcea Oomardii are amongst the novelties .
A large numbeif zoological and botanical specimens have been lost through my mabil , to attend to them in time without assistance .
This has principal affected the number of duplicates ; but in one instance it has led to * loss of a species\#151 ; one of the Petrels , which was the commonest hi about here when we first arrived .
Fortunately it is a well-known speci .
The 1st of March is announced as the approximate date of our sail ] , from Kerguelen 's Island .
Five weeks later I hope to arrive at the Cfe and to forward to you'such of the specimens collected as require or ordinary care in their transmission .
The more fragile things are likely , reach you in better condition if I keep them until my return to Englai , than they would if they were sent with the others .
I am , dear Sir , Faithfully yours , * A. E. Eaton II .
" Experiments to ascertain the Cause of Stratification Electrical Discharges in vacuo " By Warren De La Ri , Hugo W. Muller , and William Spottiswoode .
Receive February 24 , 1875 .
Some results obtained in working with a chloride-of-silver battery 1080 cells in connexion with vacuum-tubes appear to be of suffice interest to induce us to communicate them to the Society , in anticipati of the more detailed account of an investigation which is now being pi secuted , and which it is intended to continue , shortly , with a battery 5000 cells , and possibly with a far greater number .
The battery used up till now consists of 1080 cells , each being formed a glass tube 6 inches ( 15*23 centims. ) long and f of an inch ( 1*9 centu internal diameter ; these are closed with a vulcanized rubber stopi ( cork ) , perforated eccentrically to permit the insertion of a zinc rod , cai fully amalgamated , ( 0*48 centim. ) of an inch in diameter and 4 5 incl ( 11*43 centims. ) long .
The other element consists of a flattened sib wire passing by the side of the cork to the bottom of the tuhsijjBj covered , at the upper part above the chloride of silver and until it pass the stopper , with thin sheet gutta percha for insulation , and to protect from the action of the sulphur in the vulcanized corks ; these wires a of an inch ( 0*16 centim. ) broad and 8 inches ( 20*32 centims. ) long , the bottom of the tube is placed 225*25 grains ( 14*59 grms. ) chloric^ silver in powder ; this constitutes the electrolyte : above the chloride1 silver is poured a solution of common salt containing 25 grammes c ride of sodium to 1 litre ( 1752 grains to 1 gallon ) of water , to wR\#187 ; * about 1 inch ( 2*54 centims. ) of the cork .
The connexion betwe* adjoining cells is made by passing a short piece of india-rubber tu .
]75.1 Stratification in Electrical Discharges in vacuo .
357 f\#187 ; r the zinc rod of one cell , and drawing the silver wire of the next cl through it so as to press against the zinc .
The closing of the else by means of a cork prevents the evaporation of water , and not only adds this serious inconvenience , but also contributes to the effectiveness cthe insulation .
The tubes are grouped in twenties in a sort of testae rack , having four short ebonite feet , and the whole placed in a oinet 2 ft. 7 in .
( 78*74 centims. ) high , 2 ft. 7 in .
wide , and 2 ft. 7 in .
deep , n top being covered with ebonite to facilitate working with the appa-i iis , which is thus placed on it as an insulated table .
The electromotive force of the battery , as compared with a DanielFs ( .avity ) battery , was found to be as 1*03 to 1* , its internal resistance ohms per cell , and it evolved 0*214 cub. centim. ( 0*0131 cub. inches ) ixed gas per minute when passed through a mixture of 1 volume of sul-juric acid and 8 volumes of water in a voltameter having a resistance of ohms .
The striking-distance of 1080 elements between copper wire ter-inals , one turned to a point , the other to a flat surface , in air is inch \lt ; 096 millim. ) to inch ( 0*1 millim. ) .
The greatest distance through lichthe battery-current would pass continuously in vacuo was 12 inches 0*48 centims. ) between the terminals in a carbonic acid residual vacuum .
iis battery has been working since the early part of November 1874 , th , practically , a constant electromotive force .
Besides 2000 more cells like those just described , we are putting jether 2000 cells , with the chloride of silver in the form of rods , lich are cast on the flattened silver wires , as in a battery described I De La Rue and Miillert , but in other respects similar to the fctery above described , the glass tubes being , however , somewhat larger diameter ; the rods of chloride of silver are enclosed in tubes open the top and bottom , and formed of vegetable parchment , the object of 3se vegetable-parchment cases being to prevent contact between the zinc d chloride-of-silver rods .
The internal resistance of batteries so connoted is only from 2 to 3 ohms per cell , according to the distance of the ie and chloride-of-silver rods , and they evolve from 3 to 4*5 cub. centims. 18 to 0*27 cub. inch ) per minute , in a voltameter having a resistance 11 ohms .
Their action is remarkably constant .
For the experiments detailed below , vacuum-tubes were generally used about 1J to 2 inches ( 3*8 to 5 centims. ) in diameter , and from 6 to 8 inches 5*24 to 20*32 centims. ) long ; also prolate spheroidal vessels 6 inches 3 inches ( 15*24 by 7*62 centims. ) .
The terminals are of various rms , and from 4 inches to 6 inches ( 10*16 to 15*24 centims. ) apart , and *de of aluminium and occasionally of magnesium and of palladium , * Compared with a Daniell 's battery , in which the zinc is immersed in dilute sul-uric acid in a porous cell , its electromotive force is about 3 per cent , less than the iniell .
t Journal of the Chem. Soc. , 2nd series , vol. vi .
p. 488 ; Comptes Kendus , 1868 , 358 Messrs. De La Rue , Muller , and Spottiswoode on [ Apr. !
the latter showing some curious phenomena with a hydrogen residu vacuum , which will be described in a future paper .
A tube which hi given the most striking results is 8 inches ( 20*32 centims. ) long , and hi a series of six aluminium rings varying in diameter from S of an inch about 1| of an inch ( 0*95 to 3*17 centims. ) , the thickness of the wi being about ( 0*16 eentim .
) of an inch ; the rings are a little moreths 1 inch ( 2*54 centims. ) apart ; and connecting wires of platinum pai through the tube from each ring and permit of the length and other cond tions of the discharge being varied .
At times the terminals of the battery were placed in connexion wit accumulators of different kinds\#151 ; for instance , two spheres of 18 incht ( 45*72 centims. ) in diameter , presenting each a superficies of 7*07 squai feet ( 65*68 square decims .
) , and cylinders of paper covered with tinfoi each having a surface of 16 square feet ( 148*64 square decims .
) ; tl globe and cylinders were in all cases carefully insulated .
Other accumv lators were composed of coils of two copper wires of an inc ( 016 centim. ) in diameter , covered with gutta percha , in two folds , 3 of an inch ( 0*08 centim. ) thick .
One coil contains two wires , A A ' an B B ' ( fig. 1 ) , coiled side by side , each being 174 yards ( 159 metres ) lonj another with two wires each 350 yards ( 320 metres ) long ; of the latte we have two coils .
Fig. 1 .
In addition to these accumulators we have several others formed c alternate plates of tinfoil and insulating material , such as paper sate rated with paraffine , and also sheets of vulcanite .
These are of variou capacities and contain from 5 to several hundred square feet .
The larges has a capacity of 47*5 microfarads ; when it is discharged it gives a ver bright short spark , accompanied by a loud snap ; the charge deflagrate 8 inches ( 20*32 centims. ) of platinum wire , *005 inch ( 0*127 millim. ) i diameter , when it is caused to passed through it .
Each accumulate gives different results ; but for the present we shall confine ourselves t a description of the experiments made with the coil-accumulators .
" When the terminals of the battery are connected with the wires of 1 vacuum-tube which permits of the passage of the current , the wire ( especially that connected with the zinc end ) become surrounded with 1 soft nebulous light , in which several concentric layers of different degree of brilliancy are seen ; in most cases there is either no indication of stra tification , or only a feeble ill-defined tendency to stratification : the tube $75.1 Stratification in Electrical Discharges in vacuo .
359 lected for these experiments were those in which the stratification did at appear at all .
When the battery , already in connexion with the vacuum-tube , was also ined , as in fig. 2 , on to one or more coil-condensers ( coupled to introduce greater length of wire ) in the following manner , then immediately well-sfined stratifications appeared in the vacuum-tube .
Fig. 2 .
KWWWW^ SZ represents the battery , Y the vacuum-tube , C the coil-condenser ; one irminal is connected with the end A of the wire A A !
, and the other terminal dth the end B of the second wire B B ' ; connexions are also led to the wires \#163 ; the vacuum-tube .
The ends A ' and B ' are left free ; and it is clear lat the coil forms a sort of Leyden jar when thus used : an interval , owever short it may be , must elapse in accumulating a charge which at itervals discharges itself and causes a greater flow in the vacuum-tube in ddition to that which passes continuously .
It may be stated that the apacity of the accumulator has to be carefully adjusted to prevent any essation of the current , to avoid , in fact , a snapping discharge at distant atervals .
The periodic overflows , so to speak , which increase the current rom time to time , would seem to have a tendency to cause an interfer-nce of the current-waves , and to produce nodes of greater resistance in he medium , as evinced by the stratification which becomes apparent .
To he eye no pulsation in the current is apparent ; and in order to convince .urselves whether or not there was really any fluctuation in the current when the apparatus was thus coupled up with the battery , we made teveral experiments , and ultimately hit upon the following arrangement ( fig. 3 ) 360 Messrs. De La Rue , Muller , Spottiswoode on [ Apr. 8 Fig. 3 .
V2 i\\\\\\\V\\\VnI The primary wire pp ' of a small induction-coil , both with and without th\lt ; iron core , was introduced into the circuit as well as the vacuum-tube V ; t\lt ; the secondary wire s s ' of the induction-coil was connected a second vacuum tube , Y2 .
Under these circumstances there was no change in th* appearance of the discharge in Y , in consequence of the introductioi of the induction-coil , the terminals being still surrounded by the sof nebulous light before spoken of : no luminosity appeared in the seconc vacuum-tube Y2 in connexion with the secondary wire of the induction coil , except on making and breaking the connexion with the battery .
A other times there was evidently no fluctuation in the continuous dis charge , no periodic increase or diminution of flow , and consequently no induced current in the secondary wire s s ' of the induction-coil .
In the second experiment wires were also led from the terminals of th\lt ; battery ( all other things remaining as before ) to the coil-accumulator a.1 in fig. 4 ; then immediately the discharge in Y became stratified anc the secondary vacuum-tube Y2 lighted up , clearly showing that unde : these circumstances a fluctuation in the discharge really occurs on the appearance of stratification .
The brilliancy of the discharge in Y2 ( the induced current passes througl complicated vacuum-tubes through which the primary current canno : pass ) depends greatly on the quality and quantity of the discharge ii the primary vacuum-tube Y. Under some circumstances the secondary discharge is extremely feeble , and the illumination in Y2 barely visible under others it is very brilliant .
Preparations are being made to render evident induced currents in th\lt ; 375 .
] Stratification in Electrical Discharges in vacuo .
361 icondary wire of the coil too feeble to produce any illumination .
Pending ie further development of our investigation , we have ventured to give an :count of our progress in elucidating some points in the theory of the tcuum-discharge , without any wish to ascribe to our results more weight an they deserve .
Fig. 4 .
Vs Batteries of this description may be had from Messrs. Tisley and 'piller , Brompton Road .
Their cost , in large numbers , is about one tilling per cell , exclusive of the charge of chloride of silver , which costs bout two shillings per cell .
The latter , either in the form of powder r of rods cast upon flattened silver wire , may be obtained from Messrs , ohnson and Matthey , Hatton Garden .
When the battery is exhausted be reduced silver may be readily reconverted into chloride , with scarcely ay loss .
April 15 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for bem .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; or .
xxiii .
2 E

