II .
Postscript to a Paper read January 15 , 1863 , " On the Formation of Fibrin from Albumen .
" By ALFRED HUTCHISON SMEE , Jun. Communicated by ALFRED SMEE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1863 .
Since the paper was read before the Royal Society the following additional facts have been elicited .
Fibrin was obtained from 1863 .
] 505 serum when subjected to oxygen gas , when acetic acid was added to it , although another portion of the same serum had refused to yield it without that addition .
In this experiment the acetic acid should be added until the serum is either neutral , or produces a slightly acid reaction on test-paper .
Care must be taken in these experiments to prevent the temperature rising too high , for a coagulation then takes place .
If blood-cells be present in the serum , the addition of acetic acid attacks the cells in preference to the alkalies of the serum ; and on subsequent exposure to a temperature of 100 ?
F. during the period it is under the influence of oxygen , the whole is transformed into a semisolid mass .
It is a curious fact that serum which has been placed on a dialyser for the removal of the salts by Graham 's method was not improved in its power of producing fibrin , over serum which had not been submitted to that treatment previous to its oxidation .
On the other hand , albumen purified from salts by Graham 's method , and then subjected to the influence of oxygen , yielded the largest amount of fibrin .
By this method it is most probable that I should have been able to have transformed the whole of the albumen into fibrin , had not an accident unfortunately brought the experiment to a termination .
Nevertheless , although the experiment was not continued long , half the albumen was changed into fibrin .
When experimenting upon albumen nearly free from alkalies and alkaline salts , great care must be taken to keep the temperature as low as possible .
I found that a temperature between 80 ?
and 90 ?
F. was the best , for above 98 ?
the albumen had a very great tendency to coagulate .
WThen albumen was placed in a tube which contained about an equal bulk of oxygen , and in which a platinized platinum wire had been inserted extending the whole length of the tube , to facilitate the action of the oxygen on the albumen , and which tube was subsequently sealed and placed in a water-bath of 98 ?
F. , no fibrin made its appearance even after the lapse of 36 hours , but in its place a small quantity of an amorphous material subsided to the bottom of the tube .
When , however , a tube of similar size was filled with albumen having free access to the air , and then placed on the same water-bath for an equal length of time , on the surface of the albumen which this tube contained small masses of 506 fibrin were formed , which had an appearance identical with that of blood-fibrin under the microscope , giving a conclusive proof to my mind that , during the formation of fibrin by the action of oxygen on albumen , a volatile constituent is formed and carried off by the excess of oxygen which passes into the albumen in solution .
The following are the chief physical and chemical properties of the fibrin artificially formed by the action of oxygen on albumen : It has a lighter specific gravity than albumen , being always found floating on the surface of the albumen , provided it is free and not entangled or attached to the side of the vessel or platinized platinum wire that has been inserted in the albuminous solution .
It has a fibrinated appearance under the microscope , and is capable of being teased out into filaments in the same manner as bloodfibrin .
Acetic acid completely dissolves it after some time .
Soda and potash cause it to swell up and dissolve .
Concentrated solution of ammonia , after the lapse of some hours , causes the fibrin to swell up in a gelatinous mass , similar to that which occurs when blood-fibrin is submitted to the same reagent .
A hot or cold solution of nitrate of potash does not dissolve it when it is digested in that menstruum for some hours .
With Millon 's test it becomes of a brick-red colour .
With nitric acid a bright yellow colour became visible .
Fibrin heated with hydrochloric acid gave a blue colour , and subsequently dissolved , giving a blue tint to the liquid .
An acid solution of acetate of lead caused both blood-fibrin and fibrin artificially prepared to swell up and become translucent after digestion for a certain period .

