]\gt ; ' the of Gases by platinum film should be of the same intensity in each of the two different me surements .
Joiniug the gauze to a positive ential of 4 volts , it was found that when the was facing the source of light it took the leaf of the electroscope seconds to move over 10 divisions of the scale , while it took seconds when it was facing in the opposite direction .
The ative leak from the film in the latter case is thus about 17 per cent. larger than in the former .
The asymmetry in the leaks is reater than that obtained before , to a different.distribution of the electric field , the leak being not ether independent of the intensity of the electric field even at the low vacuum obtained .
In the former case the distribution of the field such as to have a tendency to produce an asymmetry in the leaks of type opposite to the one observed .
When the gauze was raised to a negative potential practically no leak was observed .
The results obtained thus support those obta no previously .
] On the Absorption of Gases by coal .
By Miss I. F. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received Apri14 , \mdash ; Read May 5 , 1910 .
) The objects of the present research were : Firstly , to obtain accurate and systematic measurements , over as wide a as possible , of the three variables in the char -gas system , temperature , pressure , and volume of gas absorbed , for a number of different gases ; secondly , to deduce therefrom some generalisations which should into line this mass of otherwise un-coordinated data ; finalJy , to employ these relations , if justified by sufficiently wide applicability , to throw some light on the nature of the phenomena with which we are dealing .
The apparatus used was , essentially , a thermometer , the bulb containing 3 grammes of carefully purified cocoanut charcoal , connected with a mercury pump and gas burette .
The dead space was found by calibration , and the actual volume of the gas-free charcoal by a separate series of experiments .
Successive volumes of gas were nitted , and the pressures , up to 80 cm .
of mercury , read at definite selected temperatures , ranging from that of boiling aniline to that of liquid air .
The volumes absorbed were calculated by difference , reduced to normal .
I. F. Homfray .
[ Apr. 4 , rature and pressure , and plotted on isothermals for each temperature .
The gases employed were helium , argon , nitrogen , carbon monoxide , methane , ethylene , dioxide , and oxygen , as well mixtures of carbon lonoxide and nitrogen .
The series is thus typical of practically all varieties of chemical composition , and ineludes as wide a range of absorbability as is experimentally convenient .
The ) sorption of ] lelium is too small for the results to be used in subsequent calculations .
From the isothermal diagram , families of curves can be deduced to represent any relations which it may be desired to fate , and each of these is a section of the three-dimensional which would be required to include the whole system .
fact that the curves are always homologous in all three planes , affords as internal evidence of the reliability of the measurements as it is possible to obtain .
Also , as the length of time allowed to elapse , after constant pressure had apparently been attained , varied considerably in different experiments , it seems probable , in view of consistency of the results , that true equilibrium had , in all cases , been established .
From the isothernffi and yrams , points of equal absorption were read and curves plutted , having pressures as ordinates and absolute temperatures as abscissae .
The curves so obtained have been termed by Ostwald " " isosteres the absorbed volumes containing equal numbers of molecules in the gaseous state .
No statement can be made as to the volumes under the varying conditions of the absorption measurements , and the ternl isochore is therefole not applicable .
The concentration by for each isostere is calculated in the form ' where of bsorl ) in rammes of cbarcoal , a finite value , , being thus obtained for the of gas or vapour in the absence of charcoal .
Two relations have been obtained which are valid , within experimental accuracy , for all the gases studied .
I.\mdash ; At constant concentration\mdash ; , where , are the absolute tenlpertures read from any one isostere at any two pressures , , are the absolute temperatures at which any saturated vapour , which may be taken as standard , has the same pressures , and is some constant .
This is Ramsay and Young 's rule for the relation 1910 .
] the of Gases by etween the boiling points of two non-associated liquids .
It is true itlso for the liquefied ases , these data .
taken the recognised sources .
alnsay and can be directly derived from Bertrand 's vapour presstlre formula which also accurately expresses the isosteric curves , thus ivintY additional value to both expressions .
II.\mdash ; At constant pressure\mdash ; The values have been mapped at pressures of , 30 , 60 cm .
for each gas , the reement with the formula being close .
Furthermore , in all cases at low pressures , and in the cases of argon and and nitrogen at all pressures , when these straight lines are produced to per cent. concentration , each is found to intersect thist ordinate at the independently found }-point of the liquefied at that pressure .
As examples of the utility of these two relations it may be mentioned that , by means of them , if the vapour-pressure curve of a liquefied gas is known , ether with three values of temperature pressure and concentration in presence of charcoal ( viz. , one at about 5 cm .
pressure and two at any single higher whole absorption can be mapped .
This tested in the csse of oxygen , where the number of measurements but sufficient to afford a check of the method .
The rreenlent with the independent imental points onJplete .
Again , second relation affords a means of estimating the boiling point liquid at a which is experimentally unrealisable .
The straight line at .
for this ooas cuts the line of 100 per cent. concentration at A. From the of states and the known critical temperature and pressure of , the point , 14 A. , at is confirmed .
The actual vahles of for the different rases at the same pressure are , inasmuch as they indicate a constitutional relation to a certain extent independent of the puints of the vapours , increasing uniformly with increasing complexity of lllolecular structure , from to ethylene , and the same order as the molecular efractions and lnolecular volumes of the respective gases .
The isosteric curves , completely the of pressure with Dr. I. F. Homfray .
[ Apr. 4 , temperature at constant concentration , afford the means of calculating readily the ] ecular heat of absorption by the thermodynamical method The evaluation has been effected by a new and simple method based on rtrand 's formula , which has already been shown to be applicable to the absorption results .
From we obtain at once whence , the constant determinable from any two points on an isostere .
This method is , of course , equally applicable to vapours .
In the case of direct calorimetric measurements were made at atmospheric temperature .
The charcoal bulb was surrounded with a large silvered vacuum vessel , successive small volumes of gas being admitted .
The rise and subsequent fall of temperature was read on a Beckmann thermometer .
Radiation corrections were made in the usual manner .
The constant of the calorimeter was determined by substitnting , for the charcoal bulb , a bulb containing a weighed quantity of water at the temperature of melting ice .
After all corrections had been made , the mean of six very fairly concordant observations gave a heating effect of calories for 10 .
of gas admitted .
The value obtained by calculation is 3 calories , an agreement as close as can be expected , considering the numerous difficulties attendiug the measurement of such small effects .
A series of absorption measurements was also carried out with mixtures of CO and at the temperature of a paste of alcohol and solid carbon dioxide , , at , the curves for the separate gases been previously determined .
These two gases were selected as showing considerable difference of absorption and as having the same molecular weight .
The curve for the mixture at all compositions is found to lie between those for the single gases .
In fact the distance of any point on the former from those on the and CO curves respectively , at the same pressure , is in the inverse ratio of their concentrations in the mixture .
Thus the total volume is given by the equation where are the volumes read from the and CO curves and the percentage composition of the mixture present .
As the composition of the 1910 .
] On Absorption of Gascs by .
103 separate phases was not determinable , the small bed volumes were not subtracted either for the mixture or the separate gases .
From the practical point of view it appears that this relation , in conjunction with the simple logarithmic formula already discussed , may be of considerable value in dealing the separation of mixed gases selective absorption in charcoal .
For , by constructing the straight line for a series of gases , we can determine by simple inspection the most favourable temperature and pressure under given conditions .
The pressure of a mixture of given composition and total volume can , of course , not be directly calculated from the partial pressures of the components , as the pressure-concentration CUl'ves are not straight it can , however , be deduced by a graphical method .
The system is , therefore , completely dete1mined by the four variables\mdash ; temperature , pressure , percentage composition , and total concentration\mdash ; as would be required by the phase-rule for a system having two phases , three components , and three degrees of freedom .
The question now arises , How far do the foregoing results throw any light on the nature of the absorption phenomena as a whole ?
The alternative hypotheses may be diyided into three classes:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Chemical \mdash ; No evidence of irreversible combination has been obtained in the course of the work hitherto described .
At the conclusion of the experiments with oxygen , when the gas was pumped out the last fraction was aualysed , but only a trace of was obtained , CO being sent .
Some measurements with mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen were also made at the same temperature as for CO and .
The pressure rose steadily on addition of , the isothermal a straight line and the hydrogen ving scarcely any absorption .
Ihere was thus no evidence of the formation of water .
Entire ] different results were obtained with NO .
This gas reacts with charcoal at all temperatures , and there appears reason to believe that the combination is more complete at low than at high temperatures , as would be predicted from its endothermic character .
The reaction 2 proceeds slowly , and the attempt was made , in conjunction with Dr. Gray , to investigate it quantitatively by pumping out and the gases .
The simultaneous partial absorption of varying volumes of the three gases , however , complicates the conditions so much that the progress of the presumably irreversible reaction could not be traced .
The experiments have , therefore , not been published .
About 50 per cent. of the NO was usually found to have been decomposed .
If , on the other hand , absorption were chiefly due to a temporary and reversible combination , it must be presumed that this would be reduced to Dr. I. F. Homfray .
[ Apr. 4 , a minimum in the case of .
A comparison of the curves for this gas with those for oxygen , for example , shows , however , that the differences are not at all of order of magnitude to be expected , if nical action of any kind were the determining factor .
No evidence of molecular association has been obtained in the case of any of the gases .
( 2 ) of nsation.\mdash ; This is the most generally accepted hypothesis .
According to this view the very large volume of gas which charcoal is capable of retaining is attributed to the surface exposed in the minute pores which perforate it and to the surface energy at the solid-gas boundary .
This affords , owever , no explanation of the radical difference exhibited by amorphous and crystalline bodies in this respect .
For , whereas most amorphous bodies absorb water vapour and ases to a considerable extent , it has been shown by Theodore Richards that condensation of gases by finely powdered crystals is negligible , even on the scale of accuracy of his atomic determinations .
The presence of liquefied gas , as such , in the capillary tubes of the charcoal can hardly be assumed at temperatures far above the critical points of the gases .
The thermal effect and temperature coefficient are also much greater than could reasonably be attributed to condensation on a large surface , the former being nearly three times the latent heat of the gas itself at its boiling point .
Apart from these difficulties , it does not appear to be possible to obtain the requisite data for testing directly Gibbs ' surface-tension equation , for the charcoal-gas system and the logarithmic formulae which are found to express the isothermals for the adsorption of iodine and dye-stuffs from solutions give quite unsatisfactory results when applied to the present experi1nents .
Also , if , in the concentrations for each isostere , any other function of the quantity of charcoal , such as its surface area , were substituted for the mass , the general form of the curves would be unchanged , and the isobaric straight-line relation ( II ) would hold , as far as the absorption results are concerned , all correspondence with the fixed points relating to the liquefied gases at would be lost .
( 3 ) The last hypothesis , that of solution , appears to offer the least difficulty and to agree best with the results of the present experiments .
The term solution , taken in its broadest sense , implies molecular interpenetration and the formation of a single eneous phase in equilibrium with the undissolved phase .
The fundamental objection which has been raised against this hypothesis is that , as the pressure-concentration isothermals are not straight lines , the law of distribution between the two phases fails .
Henry 's law for the solutionl 9 of ases iiquids honcentraticns very compared with those with which we are dealing , and , in the case of and other ooases at high , the coal absorption isothermals : nre indistinguishable from straight lin es up to absorptions of about 10 in ftmmes ( roughly 2 ) of charcoal .
Generally , however , there is no agreement with of the laws relating to dilute solutions of solids in liquids , buGthel.e appears to be a very close to concentrated solutions , as far as they have been ated .
Now , in dealing with ) tions , the solvent , or component which is present in cess , usually that with measurable vapour-pressure , the solute the -volatiie component .
In the charcoal-gas system , the conditions are reversed and rather comparable to those of a moist amorphous precipitate , or of a solution from hich nearly all the solvenC has been removed ) evaporation .
In such cases considerable heat may be evolved on dilution and this " " final heat of solution\ldquo ; is calculable from the expression .
This we have qeen to be the ( case for the absorption of Speranski has shown that Bertrand 's formula expresses vell the temperature-pressure relation for concentrated solutions of various salts and that the isothermals are not straight lines but , for moderate of concentration , fairly logarithmic curves .
The heat of absorption has been calculated for a nnber of different concentrations and temperatures in the case of and is found to fall off rapidly with increasing concentration , towards the alne of the latent heat of the liquified .
At nt concentration the heat is almost independent of the temperature for low contions , the temperature coefficient .
with increasing concentration .
The value of at 5 .
absorption is of the same ordel of magnitude 1s that found by Nernst for " " ideal concentrated solutions\ldquo ; of in water .
For such solutions , also , the molecular heat is fairl .
proportional to the of boiling point for a small of concentration of the non-volatile component .
This relation was , therefore , tested for the , absorption measure- ments .
simplicity , the calculations have beeIl m for all at the concentration The relation then becolnes - proportional to K. Now let the ation of the ) arcoal be , then for the concentration when is } ) roportional to and also to K. On the Absorption of by The following table gives the volunles of gas absorbed ( A ) and the values of and at is the constant of Bertrand 's formula:\mdash ; The proportionality , though not complete , is certainly striking .
It would be still more marked if calculated for concen trations less than 1 per cent. , as here the temperature co-efficient of is already considerable .
There thus appears to be no fundamental objection to this hypothesis on thermodynamical grounds , and we seen that the phase rule is applicable both for single ases and for mixtures , on the supposition that two homogeneous phases , gas and solution , are present .
The charcoal is classed as a highly supercooled fluid , possessing the solyent properties of the fluid phase as distinguished from the crystalline , the presence of crystal faces and orientation apparently almost entirely preventing interpenetration by gases , liquids or non-isomorphous solids .
I have subsequently carried out some experiments on the absorption of in para-azoxyphenetol , which is capable of existing in the crystalline and isotropic liquid phases .
The absorption is found to be considerably greater in the latter phase , in spite of its higher temperature .
The results will appear shortly .
On conyerting the amorphous charcoal to crystalline graphite , it entirely The chief claim of this hypothesis is , however , that it has suggested lines of loses its absorptive power .
investigation and methods of co-ordination of results , leaving a wide field for future research .
It is intended to full experimental details in the ' Zeitschrift fur Physikalische Chemie .
' My best thanks are due to Sir William Ramsay for the kind and helpful interest which he has taken in the work .

