II .
" On the Heating of a Disk by rapid Rotation in vacuo .
" By BALPOUR STEWART M.A. , F.R.S. , and P. G. TAIT , M.A. ( Continuation of a Paper read before the Royal Society on June 15 , 1865 , and published in the 'Proceedings .
' ) Received October 30 , 1866 .
16 .
The apparatus and certain preliminary experiments having been described in the previous paper , the authors now proceed to relate what further experiments have been made .
In the preliminary experiments it was conclusively shown ( art .
8 ) that the effect on the pile caused by rotation of the disk was due to radiant heat , and also ( art .
9 ) that this effect was not due to the heating of the rock-salt , which in most of the experiments was placed before the mouth of the cone .
It was also rendered probable that the effect was not due to radiation from heated air , by the two following considerations:(1 ) Because in order that nearly dry air of such a tenuity might give such a radiation it would require to be heated enormously .
( 2 ) Because when the lampblack was removed from the aluminium disk , leaving it a roughl metallic surface , the indication afforded by the galvanometer was reduced to about one-fourth of the amount with the blackened disk .
The following observations tend to strengthen this proof:(3 ) The heating effect is the same in hydrogen or in coal-gas as in air , although there is no question that the absorptive , and therefore the radiative power of coal-gas is much greater than that of air .
This is shown by the following sets of experiments , which were made with the blackened aluminium disk insulated with ebonite , and with rock-salt in the cone .
, t Ijv Z ?
5 Heat indication .
|oJ | .
** '3 J_ L__ _____ Natulre Tensio ?
, i blackened aluminiumn disk than from an unblackened one does not prove that this heating effect may not be due to air , since the blackened surface may be imagined to lay hold of the air more than the metallic one .
But the following sets of experiments prove that the heating effect of the aluminiium disk with both sides blackened is the same as when only one side is blackened. .
4 .
, .
0 §§. .
OA ' ?
e X. 2 30 20 0'9 1-1 Disk blackened on one side .
XIII .
3 30 20 0'8 0-4 Disk blackened on both sides .
It would therefore appear to be proved that in these experiments the heating effect is due to the increased temperature of the disk .
17 .
Before proceeding further it may be advisable to detail some experiments made with an ebonite disk - , inch thick .
In these experiments care was taken that the ebonite should have the same temperature throughout its thickness , so that there might be no flow of heat from the interior to the surface , or vice versa .
The experiments were made with rock-salt in the cone .
, ... ' .
; * | |.atu1ri r Tension 4| 4 .
4-4^ tl e 1i '* Nature of of gas , in o oD gas .
inches .
ff XIV .
3 30 20 32 air 11 XV .
1 30 20 30 air 0-26 XVI .
1 30 20 31 air 11 XVII .
2 30 20 28-5 air 0-26 XVIII .
2 30 20 28-5 air 0-25 XIX .
3 30 20 29 hydrogen 0-25 90 From these experiments it may be taken for granted that the heat indication given by an ebonite disk is , like that from an aluminium disk , independent both of the density and chemical constitution of the residual gas .
It is also highly probable that the unknown cause of the heating effect is the same for both disks .
18 .
To return now to the aluminium disk , it may be shown that the heating of this disk is not caused by revolution under the earth 's magnetic force ; for ( 1 ) the following calculation , kindly furnished by Professor Maxwell , shows that the heating effect due to this cause would , for the aluminium disk 1 of an inch in thickness , amount , under the circumstances of rotation , only to f-i -1 of a degree Fahr. , whereas the observed effect is more than half a degree .
An ellipsoid , semiaxes a , b , c , revolves about the axis c with velocity w , 22 in a uniform magnetic field .
To find its electrical state at a given instant .
At the given instant let the axes of x , y , z coincide with a , b , c ; then using the notation in the paper on the Electromagnetic field * , P-t=wyx-a=-P , Q=PWYY--y=qP , i= --a , ( / 3y+ax)-a ?
PQ electromotive force , ary magnetic intensity,.b electric tension , e=coefficient of magnetic induction =I for everything but iron , p , gq , r electric currents , p=resistance of cubic unit of volume .
The condition of the currents being confined to the ellipsoid , is a2+ 62+'= Solving , we get p( a'2a pw 62u / ax pie \ 2Pp a-}-q2 p62 qp ac 2 C2 62C2 I= 2y('2 +1 ' ?
y')(^ @+a 6+c2 C ) + C. This is the complete solution .
The heat ( measured as energy ) produced in unit of volume in unit of time is p(p2 +q2 + 22)* The whole heat produced in the ellipsoid in unit of time is 47r f2 aac3 a / a ?
22 } 1l , p { a " W+2 ++ c ' 4r It2 alea If a=b , this is p a+e ( a2+p2 ) .
If c is small compared with a , it becomes 47r A2 -5 p-2-a2C3(2 -_/ 2- ) .
If the axis is horizontal , a 2+ -3IP2 sin2 0+ V2 , where H=horizontal magnetic force , and V=vertical magnetic force , and 0=angle between the axis of rotation and the magnetic meridian , a=radius and c half the thickness , w= 27rn , where n denotes the revolutions per second ; ip= 1 ; p is the resistance of unit length and unit section .
Now , the resistance of 1 metre long and 1 millimetre diameter =4P10G-=00375 X 107 7r r 32 for aluminium in metrical units by Matthiessen , or-= p is the same for metrical and for British measure .
At Kew horizontal force=3'81 , dip 68 ?
'10 ; 0=90 ?
in the experiments.a .
a2+2= 104-8 British measure .
The revolving body is not an ellipsoid but a cylinder , equally thick 15 throughout ; to correct for this we shall put -2 c for c3 .
We get for the energy converted into heat by electrical action per second 12'91 in grain-foot-second measure .
Now 772-= energy required to raise 1 grain of water 1 ?
Fahlr .
70,000 The disk =-- ' 22 grain of water,. .
energy corresponding to 1§ 32'2 = 772 x -16 x 15400 , 12'91 12'91 or rise of temperature per second= 1540x 15400= 23716000 degree Fahr. or about 61270 degree in 30 seconds .
This is when the heat is uniformly distributed through the thickness of the disk , which it will be in less than thirty seconds .
If there were no conduction , the rise of temperature at the surface would be about twice the value found above .
( 2 ) It would appear from the above formula that the heating effect due to this cause should increase with the thickness of the disk .
The following experiments show that , on the contrary , the heating effect , as regards temperature , diminishes as the thickness of the disk increases .
0 00 0 .
_"o~ ( 1 , Z P- : C ) , ~ .
Pp0 000 804 4-ec ~0 0C C 0-00 XIII .
3 30 20 0-8 0-4 Aluminium disk nl inch thick .
XX .
3 30 21 1-7 04 Aluminium disk l inch thick .
( 3 ) The heat indication afforded by an ebonite disk is against the conclusion that this effect is due to rotation under the earth 's magnetic force .
It would therefore appear to be proved that in these experiments the increased temperature of the aluminium disk is not due to rotation under the earth 's magnetic force .
19 .
It might perhaps be said that the heating of the disk may be due to heat conducted from the bearings into the disk and then distributed outwards ; and this conjecture will require to be examined , since the bearings are , no doubt , heated by friction during the motion .
This heating effect on the bearings was measured by means of a very delicate thermometer , which was inserted into a small hole in the bush through which oil is supplied to the spindle , and made to be in metallic contact with the sides of this hole ; the mean of three observations made the heating effect at the spindle due to rotation to be 4 ?
Fahr. In the next place , the aluminium disk , separated from its metallic spindle by the ebonite washer , and in every respect the same as when made to rotate , had its spindle heated artificially by a mercury bath , generally at least 40 ?
Fahr. above the previous temperature .
After the lapse of two minutes the effect upon the pile was hardly perceptible-not more than five divisions .
1 ) It would appear from this experiment that the heating effect ob served in rotation cannot be due to heat conducted from the bearings through the ebonite washer , since a temperature difference between the bearings and the disk ten times greater than that produced by rotation causes a heating effect at least six times less than that caused by rotation in a somewhat less time .
( 2 ) The ebonite washer used to prevent the heat of the bearings from reaching the aluminium disk , is a cylindrical disk , its thickness being twotenths of an inch , and the area of one of its faces 3 15 square inches .
It is shielded behind by a brass disk , of similar size , which brass disk being near the bearings , and metallically connected with them , wte may suppose to have the same temperature as the bearings .
Thus one face of the ebonite washer is in contact with brass , having the temperature of the bearings , while the other is in contact with the aluminium disk .
Supposing that this washer , used to protect the aluminium disk from the heat of the bearings , was of iron instead of being of ebonite , we can calculate approximately from Principal Forbes 's determinations of the absolute conductivity of this metal , how much heat would be conducted across the washer during the experiment .
According to these observations , if a cube of iron whose side is one foot , have one of its faces kept permanently at a temperature 1 ?
C. higher than the opposite face , the quantity of heat conducted across in one minute will be '011 unit nearly , a unit denoting the amount of heat required to raise a cubic foot of water 1 ?
C. Since in these observations both the temperature difference and the unit are expressed in the same thermometric degrees , we may , if we choose , substitute degrees Fahr. for degrees Centigrade in the above expression for conductivity .
Now , if we assume as an approximation that during the whole experiment of rotation the heat conducted across such a washer is the same as if for one minute the temperature difference between both sides of the washer were kept at 2 ?
Fahr. , and if we make allowance for the surface and for the thickness of the washer , we obtain the following expression as approximately representing the heat conducted across the washer during the experiment , 3'15 12 Heat=--01 x2xX =302 T08 unit nearly , 144 -2 where the first factor is on account of the double temperature difference , the second on accountt of the surface , and the third on account of the thickness .
But a unit of heat in the above expression denotes the amount necessary to raise a cubic foot of water ( or nearly 1000 ounces ) 1 ?
Fahr. Now the weight of the disk is 10*5 ounces , and its specific heat is 0-22 .
Hence the above amount of heat will raise the disk 1000 1 *028 x x10 -= 12 ?
Fahr. in temperature .
10'5 '22 Hence we see that if the material of the washer had been of the metal bismuth , of which the conductivity is 7 times less than that of iron , and if we suppose the circumstances of the experiment to be equivalent to a temperature difference of 2 ?
Fahr. between the two sides of the washer lasting for one minute , then the quantity of heat conducted across the washer will be a little greater than that observed .
But the conductivity of ebonite is no doubt very much less than that of bismuth , and therefore on this account we cannot suppose that the heating effect observed is due to conduction .
( 3 ) In this investigation no account has been taken of the unequal distribution of temperature from the centre to the circumference of the disk , the tendency of which would be to diminish the effect upon the pile ( which was directed to the circumference of the disk ) of the heat passing through the washer ; and indeed , when this element is taken into account , it is not surprising to find , as was actually the case , that in some preliminary experiments , where the disk was metallically connected with the spindle , the effect was not greater than with the ebonite washer .
( 4 ) The short time in which the effect attains its maximum value is against the supposition that it is caused by conduction from the bearings .
( 5 ) The fact that ( as we shall afterwards see ) the temperature effect in three aluminium disks of different thicknesses is inversely proportional to the thickness , is also against this supposition .
( 6 ) And so is the fact that a heat-effect obeying apparently the same laws , holds for an ebonite disk in which there is but a very feeble conduction .
On the whole , therefore , we cannot suppose this effect to be due to conduction , or at least we must conclude that the effect of conduction constitutes only an exceedingly small fraction of that observed .
20 .
Itwas suggested to the authors by Professor Stokes and by Mr. Grove , that the effect might be due to vibrations of the disk , the energy of which , owing to the viscosity of the disk for such vibrations , might ultimately become converted into heat ; and it is necessary to examine this question .
( 1 ) The thickest aluminium disk was found to be out of truth not more than -015 inch on each side .
Hence , the thickness of this disk being *05 inch , when turned with moderate rapidity , its apparent thickness should be -015 + 05 + 01 == 08 ; and experiment showed that when turned very fast , its apparent thickness was no greater .
The greatest possible range of vibrations of the disk at its circumference could not , therefore , be more than '015 inch on either side of the position of rest .
Again , it was ascertained by means of the note given by this disk , that it vibrates about 250 times per second .
Let us suppose the whole mass to have the same range of excursion ( this will of course increase the result ) , the equation of vibration ( not allowing for loss by viscosity ) is x='015 cos nt and also time of vibration 2rw 1 -nz 250 ' Hence n=500 x314-=1570 , say , cdx in .
in..* " =--'015x 15 70 sin nt,. .
greatest velocity =23'55 , or say 2 feet per second .
IHence the energy of this motion in foot pounds , =weight of disk in pounds x ' 2g =weight of disk in pounds through -Lof a foot .
But an approximate experiment performed by causing the disk to ring , and noticing how long the sound lasted , would seem to show that probably the energy of vibration of the disk diminishes at first , and therefore constantly ( if it is maintained ) at the rate of the whole in 3 seconds .
Hence in 30 seconds it loses 10 times as much as the whole ; that is to say , in 30 seconds the heat produced cannot be greater than that due to the energy produced by the disk falling under gravity through l-o of a foot .
Reducing this to its heat-equivalent , the greatest possible heat effect due to vibration during 30 seconds rapid turning will be less than 10 I11 Far .
^X ---XO Fahlar_ 16 772 x22 272 which is a very small fraction of the effect observed .
( 2 ) The thin aluminium disk was out of truth about *02 inch on each side .
Its note of vibration was as nearly as possible one octave lower than that of the thick disk , while its coefficient of viscosity was somewhat greater , say in the proportion of 3 to 2 , than that of the thick disk .
On the supposition that the heat generated is due to vibration , if we call the heat generated during 30 seconds in the thick disk =1 , then that generated during the same time in the thin disk ought to be / .027 3X I xx- , where the first factor is on account of difference of time of vibration , the second on account of difference of range , the third on account of difference of mass , and the fourth on account of difference of viscosity .
But the heating effect ( as far as quantity of heat is concerned ) produced in the thin disk is as nearly as possible the same as that produced in the thick disk .
This fact is therefore against the hypothesis that the heating effect is due to vibration .
( 3 ) In order to estimate the effect ( if any ) of want of truth in the disk , the thick aluminium disk was purposely put out of truth about 3k times srlv alrlrh+~lriLLl~+Ll l*IJ+~VI+~ lUrVIL13( CCV ldL V ~iU~~ C~JUt ?
t ; its usual amount ; but the heating effect was as nearly as possible the same in both cases , being 32 divisions of the scale in both .
On all these grounds it would appear that the heating effect cannot be due to vibration of the disk .
21 .
It is hardly necessary to mention that the heating effect cannot be due to radiation and convection from the wheelwork , which is no doubt slightly heated during the experiment , for the mass of this metallic matter is so great , that we cannot imagine it to be heated more than 10 Fahr. Now the radiation from this against the back of the disk may certainly be neglected , while the convection must be very small , since in the experiments the pressure of the air was very small .
Besides , the heating effect , as will be seen shortly , was found to be independent of the pressure .
22 .
It has thus been shown that the disk is heated during the experiment , and that this heating effect(1 ) Is not due to rotation under the earth 's magnetic force ; ( 2 ) Is not due to conduction of heat from the bearings ; ( 3 ) Nor to radiation or convection from the wheelwork ; ( 4 ) Nor to vibrations of the disk .
And in view of the large and constant nature of this heating effect it may be asserted that it cannot be sensibly due , either to one of these causes singly , or to their combined effect .
23 .
It will now be sliown that the heating effect is independent both of the density and chemical constitution of the residual air and vapour around the disk .
In art .
16 , if we compare together the 7th , 8th , 9th , 10th , 11th , and 12th sets of experiments , we shall see that the heating effect was sensibly the same , whether the residual gas was atmospheric air , or hydrogen or coal-gas .
As hydrogen diffuses very quickly , it might perhaps be supposed that when heated by rotation it might find access to the pile through the rocksalt cover more easily than heated atmospheric air , so that while the whole effect might appear the same in hydrogen as in air , yet only part of that in hydrogen might be due to radiant heat , the remainder being due to heated gas which had obtained access to the pile .
This was , however , disproved by an experiment , which showed that by'blackening the interior of the cone , the effect upon the pile was just as much diminished in a hydrogen vacuum as in an air vacuum ; and hence in both cases the whole effect is due to radiant heat .
But , besides the residual gas , it may with truth be supposed that there is always more or less of aqueous vapour , and also a little of the vapour of oil , and perhaps of the vapour of mercury in the receiver .
As regards the hygrometric state of the residual air and its influence on the disk , this would appear to be of the following nature:(1 ) When the vacuum has just been made , there is generally a hygrometric difference between the air and the surface of the disk , on account of which there is a strictly temporary effect , either in the direction of heat or cold , at the surface of the disk , owing probably to condensation or evaporation of small quantities of aqueous vapour ; but this effect disappears the moment the motion is stopped , leaving behind the permanent effect apparently unaltered .
( 2 ) This temporary effect disappears when the disk has been left for some hours in the vacuum .
Next , with regard to vapour of oil , we cannot suppose its effect to be so large or so different in character and constancy from that of aqueous vapour as to account for the effect observed .
Add to this that the effect takes place with an uncoated metallic disk probably to the same extent as with a coated one .
The same remark may be made with regard to vapour of mercury .
The effect would therefore appear to be independent of the chemical nature of the residual gas and vapour around the disk .
In order to prove that this effect is also independent of the pressure of the residual gas , it is only necessary to refer to the whole body of experiments which have been described , to see that between 4 inches and 0'25 inch there is no perceptible variation in the effect observed .
24 .
The following generalization may now be made:(1 ) If a perfectly true aluminium disk ( without vibrations ) be made to rotate in a vertical plane at the earth 's surface , after the manner herein described , there will be an increase of the temperature of the disk , which is not due to communication of heat from the bearings or machinery , nor to the earth 's magnetic force .
( 2 ) This heating effect is independent of the density and chemical constitution of the residual air and vapour which surround the disk .
( 3 ) It is probable that the quantity of heat developed in disks of similar extent of surface and similar circumstances of motion is the same .
For , in the first place , the quantity of heat developed in three aluminium disks , *05 , '0375 , '025 of an inch in thickness respectively , would appear to be the same , the relative thermometric effect for these disks varying inversely as their thickness , and being in the following proportions , 30 , 43 , 60 , as determined by one complete set of experiments .
Again , the quantity of heat developed in the thick aluminium disk , with its surfaces both uncoated , was probably the same as when one surface was coated and one left bare , or as when both surfaces were coated .
25 .
The authors will'not attempt here a further generalization , but they would desire to make one remark .
In absence of definite knowledge of the nature of that mnedium which transmits radiant light and heat , it might be supposed possible that when a radiant body is in rapid motion , the intensity of its radiation is somewhat increased .
But if we bear in mind that in these experiments the effect was observed after bringing the disk to rest , and that the temporary effect during rotation sometimes observed can probably be otherwise accounted for , we are forced to conclude that , as far as we may judge from these experiments ( and they are of a very delicate nature ) , there is no perceptible effect of motion upon radiation .
In conclusion the authors desire to say that they are much indebted to Mr. Beckley , who not only invented the apparatus , but assisted at all the experiments , and without whom they could not have been pertformed in a manner so satisfactory .
They are also indebted to Mr. Atkinson for his kindness in lending them a large gasometer , and to Mr. Browning and Mr. Lad for exceedingly true aluminium and ebonite disks .

