PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
XI .
On the Causes which influence the Direction of the Growth of Roots .
By T. A. Knight , Esq. F. R. S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read March 7 , 1811 .
I HAVE shown , in a former communication , the effects of centrifugal force upon germinating seeds ; from which I have inferred that the radicles are made to descend towards the earth , and the germs , or elongated plumules , to take the opposite direction , by the influence of gravitation ; and I believe the facts I have stated to be sufficient to support the inferences I have drawn.* But the fibrous roots of plants , being much less succulent , though not uninfluenced in the directions they take by gravitation , are , to a great extent , obedient to other laws , and are generally found to extend themselves most rapidly , and to the greatest length , in whatever direction the soil is most favourable : whence many naturalists have been disposed to believe that these are guided by some degrees of feeling and perception , analogous to those of animal life .
I shall proceed to state some of the facts upon which this hypothesis has been founded , and others which have occurred in the course of my own experience , and which are favourable to it ; after which I shall endeavour to trace the effects observed to the operation of different causes .
When a tree , which requires much moisture , has sprung up , or been planted , in a dry soil , in the vicinity of water , it has been observed , that much the largest portion of its roots has been directed towards the water ; and that vihen a tree of a different species , and which requires a dry soil , has been placed in a similar situation , it has appeared , in the direction given to its roots , to have avoided the water and moist soil .
A tree growing upon a wall , at some distance from the ground , and consequently ill supplied with food and water , has also been observed to adapt its habits to its situation , and to make very singular and well directed efibrts to reach the soil beneath , by means of its rootsA.* During the period in which it is malking such efforts , little addition is made to its branches , and almost the whole powers of the plant appear to be directed to the growth of one or more of its principal roots .
To these much is in consequence annually added , and they proceed perpendicularly towards the earth , unless made to deviate by some opposing body : and as soon as the roots have attached themselves to the soil , the branches grow with vigour and rapidity , and the plant assumes the ordinary habits of its species .
Du HAMEL caused two trenches to be made so as to intersect each other at right angles , and a tree to be planted at the point of intersection ; and taking up this tree some years afterwards , he found that the roots had almost wholly confined themselves to the trenches , in which the soil of the former surface must have been buried .
A trench which was twenty feet long , six wide , and about two deep , was prepared in my garden , in the bottom of which trench was placed a layer , about six inches deep , of very rich mould , incorporated wx , ith much fresh vegetable matter .
This was covered , eighteen inches deep , with light and poor loam , and upon the bed thus formed , seeds of the common carrot ( Daucus carota ) and parsnip ( Pastinaca saizi ) were sowed .
The plaats grew feebly till near the end of the sutmmer , wle.n they assumed a very luxuriant growth , grew rapidly till late in the autumn , and till their leaves were injured by frost .
The roots were then examined , and were found of an extraordinary length , and in form almost perfectly cylindrical , having scarcely eMted any lateral fibrous roots into the poor soil , whilst the rich mould beneath was filled with them .
In another experiment of the same season , the preceding process was reversed , the rich soil being placed liuon the surface , and the poor beneath .
The plants here grew very luxuriantly , and a , quired a considerable size early in the summer ; and when the roots were taken up in the autumn , they ?
were found to have assumed very different forms .
The greater part had divided into two or more unequal ramifications , very near the surface of the ground , and those which were not t hus divided tapered rapidly to a point at the sir , ce , V , of t-e por sotl , into which few of their ibrous roots haad ctkered .
In other exr ri , met seeds of alkost all the common esculent plants of a garden w'ere so placed that the young plants had an oL Utity of seiectin either rih , or poor soil ; EeI an .
which was disposed , in almost every possible way , within their reach ; and I always found abundant fibrous roots in the rich soil , and comparatively few in the poor .
The following experiment afforded the most remarkable result , and one the least favourable to the hypothesis which I have advanced in a former Paper , * and to the conclusion which I shall now endeavour to support ; and therefore I think it necessary to describe it very minutely .
Some seeds of the common bean ( Viciafaba ) , the plant with which many former experiments were made , were placed upon the surface of the mould in garden pots , in rows which were about four inches distant from each other .
A grate , formed of slender bars of wood , was then adapted to the surface of each pot , so as to prevent both the mould and the seeds falling out , in whatever position the pots might be placed ; and the bars were so disposed , as not at all to interfere with the radicles of the seeds , when protruding .
The pots were then directly inverted ; and the seeds were consequently placed beneath the mould ; but each seed was so far depressed into the mould , as to be about half covered : by which means each radicle , when first emitted , was in contact with the mould above , and the air below .
Water was then introduced through the bottom of the inverted pot , in sufficient quantity to keep the mould moderately moist ; and , the pots being suspended from the roof of a forcing house , the seeds soon vegetated .
In former experiments , ?
wherever the seeds were placed to vegetate at rest , the radicles descended perpendicularly downwards , in whatever direction they were first protruded ; but under the preceding circumstances they extended horiPhil .
Trans. 1806 , page I. t Ibid. 219 zontally along the surface of the mould , and in contact with it ; and in a few days emitted many fibrous roots upwards into it : just as they would have done , if guided by the instinctive faculties and passions of animal life ; and as I concluded before I made the experiment that they would do , under the guidance of much more simple laws , whose mode of operating I shall endeavour to explain .
Whatever be the machinery by which the sap of trees is raised to the extremities of their branches , it is obvious that this machinery is first put into action by the stems and branches , and not by the roots : for the graft or bud , whenever it has become fully united to the stock , wholly regulates the season and temperature , in which the sap is to be put in motion , in perfect independence of the habits of the stock ; whether those be late or early .
If all the branches of a tree , exclusive of one , be much shaded by contiguous trees , * or other objects , the branch which is exposed to the light attracts to itself a large portion of the ascending sap , which it employs in the formation of leaves and vigorous annual shoots , whilst the shaded branches become languid and unhealthy .
The motion of the ascending current of sap appears therefore to be regulated by the ability to employ it in the trunk and branches of the tree ; and this current passes up through the alburnum , from which substance the buds and leaves spring .
But the sap which gives existence to , and feeds the root , descends through the bark -t and if the operation of light give ability to the exposed branch to attract and employ the ascending or alburnous current of sap , it appears not improbable that the operation of proper food and moisture in the soil , t. Phil. Trans. 18o9 , ist Part , p. X , 213 0 Phil. Trans. i805 and 18o9 , p. 8 .
upon the bark of the root , may give ability to that organ to attract and employ the descending , or cortical current of sap ; and if this be the case , an easy explanation of all the preceding phenomena immediately presents itself .
A tree growing upon a wall , and unconnected with the earth , will almost of necessity grow slowly , and as it must be scantily supplied with moisture during the summer , it will rarely produce any other leaves than those which the buds coatained , which were formed in the preceding year .
Some of the roots of a tree , thus circumstanced , will be less well supplied with moisture than others , and these will be first aftcted by drought : their points will in consequence become rigid andc inexpansible , and they will thence generally cease to elongate at an early period of the summer .
The descending current of sap will be them employed in promoting the growth and elongation of those roots only , which are more favourably situated , and those , comparatively with other parts of the tree , will grow rapidly .
Gravitation will direct these roots perpendicularly downwards , and the tree will appear to have adopted the wisest and best plan of connecting itself with the ground : and it will really have employed the readiest means of doing so , as eFrectively as it could have done , if it had possessed all the feelings and instinctive passions and powers of animal life .
The subsequent vigorous growth of such a tree is the natural consequence of an improved and more extensive pasture .
When the seeds of the carrot and parsnip , in the experiments I have stated , were placed in a poor superficial soil , but which permitted the roots of the plants to pass readily through it , these were conducted downwards by gravitation ; whilst the plants grew feebly , because they received but little nutriment .
The roots were in a situation analogous to that of the stems of trees in a crowded forest ; and when the leading fibres of the roots came into contact with the rich mould , they acquired a situation correspondent to that of the leading branches of such trees , which are alone exposed to the light .
The form of the roots of the plants was consequently long , slender , and cylindrical , like the stems of such trees .
The roots of the one required the actual contact of proper soil and nutriment ; and the branches of the other required the actual contact of light , to promote their growth .
When , on the contrary , the seeds of the preceding species of plants were placed in a rich superficial soil , their situation was analogous to that of a tree fully exposed , on every side , to the light , whose branches would be extended , in every direction , immediately above the surface of the ground : and as the fibrous roots of the plants came into contact with the subsoil , which was not well calculated to promote their growth , their situation became analogous to that of shaded branches ; and they consequently ceased to extend downwards .
The fibrous roots of a tree , under similar circumstances , would have extended along the lower surface of the favourable soil ; but after these roots had much increased in bulk , they would be found partly compressed into the subsoil , however poor and unfavourable , provided it contained no ingredients actually noxious .
In obedience to similar laws , the roots of an aquatic tree will not extend freely in dry soil , nor those of a tree which requires but little moisture in a wet soil ; and on this account the roots of the one will appear to have sought , and those of the other to have avoided , the contiguous water ' though both , in the first period of their growth , pointed their roots alike in every direction .
When the seeds of the bean , in the experiment I have described , were placed to vegetate beneath the mould of an inverted pot , a sufficient quantity of moisture was afforded by the mould to occasion the protrusion of the radicles : but as soon as the under points of these had penetrated through the seed-coats , their surfaces were necessarily exposed to dry air , and were consequently rendered rigid and inexpansible ; whilst their upper surfaces , being in contact with the moist mould , remained soft and expansible .
If both the upper and lower surfaces of the radicles , at their points , had been equally well supplied with moisture , gravitation would have attracted the sap to the lower sides , where new matter would have been added ; and the radicles would have-extended perpendicularly downwards , as in former experim-rents : but the influence of gravitation was , to a great extent , counteracted by the effects of drought upon the lower sides of the radicles , nearly as it was counteracted by centrifugal force , wien made to act horizontally.* As soon as the radicles had acquired sufficient age and 4maturity , efforts were made by them to emit fibrous roots ; when want of proper moisture on the lower sides prevented their being protruded , in any other direction , except upwards .
In that direction therefore they were alone enitted , ( as I was confident that they would before I began the experiment ) and having found proper iood and moisture in the pots , they extended thmsen lves upwards -through more than half the old , which th es contained .
' Phil. Trans. 8o6 , p. 6 .
This experiment was repeated , and water was so constantly and abundantly given , that every part of the radicles was kept equally wet ; and they then became perfectly obedient to gravitation , without being at all influenced by the mould above them .
In other experiments pieces of alum and of the sulphates of iron and copper were placed at small distances perpendicularly beneath the radicles of germinating seeds , of different species , to afford an opportunity of observing whether any efforts would be made by them to avoid poisons ; but they did not appear to be at all influenced , except by actual contact of the injurious substances .
The growth of their fibrous lateral roots was , however , obviously accelerated , when their points approached ally considerable quantity of decomposing vegetable or animal matter : and when the growth of the roots was retarded by want of moisture , the contiguity of water , in the adjoining mould , though not apparently in actual contact with them , operated beneficially : but I had reason to suspect that the growth of roots was , under these circumstances , promoted by actual contact with the detached and fugitive particles of the decomposing body , and of the evaporating water .
The growth and forms assumed by the roots of trees , of every species , are to a great extent , dependent upon the quantity of motion , which their stems and branches receive from winds ; for the effects of motion upon the growth of the root , and of the trunk and branches , which I have described in a former memoir , are perfectly similar.* Whatever part of a root is moved and bent by winds , or other causes , an increased deposition of alburnous matter upon that part soon takes place , and consequently the roots which immediately adjoin the trunk of an insulated tree , in an exposed situation , become strong and rigid ; whilst they diminish rapidly in bulk , as they recede from the trunk , and descend into the ground .
By this sudden diminution of the bulk of the roots , the passage of the descending sap , through their bark , is obstructed ; and it in consequence generates , and passes into many lateral roots ; and these , if the tree be still much agitated by winds , assume a similar form , and consequently divide into many others .
A kind of net-work composed of thick and strong roots is thus formed , and the tree is secured from the dangers to which its situation would otherwise expose it .
In a sheltered valley , on the contrary , where a tree is surrounded and protected by others , and is rarely agitated by winds , the roots grow long and slender , like the stem and branches , and comparatively much less of the circulating fluid is expended in the deposition of alburnum beneath the ground ; and hence it not unfrequently 'happens , that a tree , in the most sheltered part of a valley , is uprooted ; whilst the exposed and insulated tree , upon the adjoining mountain , remains uninjured by the fury of the storm .
In all the preceding arrangement , the wisdom of nature , and the admirable sinplicity of the means it employs , are conspicuously displayed ; but I am wholly unable to trace the exist ence of any thing like sensation or intellect in the plants and I therefore venture to conclude , that their roots are influenced by the immediate operation and contact of surrounding bodies , and not by any degrees of sensation and passion analogous to those of animal life ; and I reect the latter hypotheis , not only because it is founded upon assumptions , hich cannot be l 8 granted , but because it is insufficient to explain the preceding phenomena , unless seedling plants be admitted to possess more extensive intellectual powers , than are given to the ofFspring of the most acute animal .
A young wild-duck or partridge , when it first sees the insect upon which nature intensds it to feed , instinctively pursues and catches it ; but nature has given to the young bird an appropriate organizatioi .
The plant , on the contrary , if it could feel and perceive the objects of its wants , and will the possession of tiem , has still to contrive and form the organ by which these are to be approached .
The writers who have contended for the existence of sensation in plants , appear to have been sensible of the preceding and other obstacles , and have all betrayed the weakness of their hypothesis , in adducing a few fcts only which are favourable to it , and waving wholly the investigation of all others .
In the description of the preceding experiments , I fear that I have been tediously minute ; but , as I have selected a few facts only from a great number , which I could have adduced , I was anxious to give as accurate and distinct a view of thoseI stated , as possible .
I am , dear Sir , with great respect , sincerely yours , THO .
AND .
KNIGIHT .
Downton , Jan. 15 , I8Ii .
219

