VII .
" An Inquiry into some of the circumstances and principles which regulate the production of Pictures on the Retina of the Human Eye , with their measure of endurance , their Colours andChanges."-Part II .
BytheRev .
WILLIAM SCORESBY , D.D. , F.R.S. , Corresp .
Inst. of France , &amp;c. Received May 31 , 1854 .
This second part of the author 's inquiries concerning phenomena in optical spectra , embraced the results in respect of colour in the images impressed on the retina , as derived simply from the influence of light .
The optical spectra from white , grey , or black opake objects under faint illumination , or of ordinary windows or apertures transmitting low degrees of light , were usually found to be without colour .
But ordinary daylight , and , much more , the light from bright sunshine ( as is well known ) , yield chromatic spectra of vivid or brilliant hues .
By viewing with slightly closed eyes , the pictures impressed on the retina by a few seconds ' steady gazing at some fixed point of an illuminated object , and noting the various effects , disappearances and changes , a considerable number of characteristic phenomena were elicited , and the effects of a variety of modifying circumstances satisfactorily determined .
The most prevailing influences in modifying the phenomena-whatever other causes might tend to the production of variation in the colours were found to be referable to differences in the degree of intensity of the external light , in the extent of time occupied in gazing at the illuminated object , in the quantity of light penetrating the chamber of the eye whilst examining the spectra , and in the normal condition of the eye itself .
These , with other modifying circumstances , had been somewhat elaborately investigatedo Different degrees of light , whether reflected from white objects , or transmitted by colourless glass , ' had obviously the tendency to yield differences in the colours of the primarily developed pictures on the retina , with corresponding varieties in the nature and number of the subsequent changes .
Thus the viewing for a few seconds of an aperture in a window the size of a pane of glass , whilst all the rest was covered with a thick brown-paper screen , gave , with a low degree of daylight , transparent pictures of a dingy orange , olive , yellow-grey or bluish black tint , changing , most usually , into a rustytinted blackish spectrum , and disappearing , for the most part , in a minute of time or less .
From medium degrees of daylight , the primary pictures embraced a considerable variety of colours , such as crimson-pink , purple-pink , violet , purple , indigo , blue , the blue being the highest in the scale of intensity .
The most marked changes , commencing with blue , were usually from blue to red , or to crimson , olive , black fading into blackish grey .
In certain cases rapid and evanescent glances were had of several intermediate colours .
The general photochromatic effects of the higher degrees of light , such as from a clear sky in full sunshine , were far more uniform than those from inferior light .
The spectrum first elicited , even after viewing a window or window-aperture for three or four seconds only , was almost always green , with the character of illuminated transparency ; the shades of colour however varied with the intensity of the impression .
The picture always appeared within four or five seconds after closing the eyes , and when the light had been strong and the gazing continued for a quarter of a minute or more , the picture would burst out almost instantly .
The restoration of the picture in new colours , after the vanishing , had very much the character and appearance of the dissolving views effected by the magic lanthorn .
The frame of the window or aperture , and the crossbars , were always pictured in colours different from those of the panes , besides a fine marginal line of another colour dividing the glass and the frames .
These consequential colours , constitute , as is well known , a remarkable feature in the phenomena .
They have generally a certain complementary relation , or tendency to such , to the colours of the primary picture .
Thus in the clear green or blue spectrum of a window , derived from strong illumination , the remainder of the field of the eye will generally , in the first instance , be covered with a ground of glowing crimson , with cross-bars similar , and purple edgings ; and when the picture changes to crimson or red , the antagonistic tint will also change , perhaps to purple , or orange or brown .
'he original spectra were found to fade away at intervals , often of tolerable equality , such as of eight or nine seconds , disappearing perhaps for two or three seconds , and then reappearing under , generally , some change of shade or tint , through an extent of very numerous repetitions .
The changes of colour from the bright or emerald green , as very frequently traced , went rapidly through yellow-green , yellow , orange , red , scarlet , crimson and brown , or olive .
And this series , it is observable , is particularly accordant , in respect to the principal or fundamental colours , with that of the prismatic spectrum from green to yellow , orange and red .
These visual photographs , besides having the sharpest definition , and often the most brilliant illuminated colours , were found to possess , under strong intensities of impression , a remarkable degree of permanency-extending sometimes to endurance for an hour or longer after the act of gazing .
Investigations on the relation of the photochromatic developments to the time of gazing , gave results in many respects corresponding with those derived from differences in the degree of external light .
Thus the higher colours of the spectral series elicited by strong light , could , within certain limits , be also developed by more continuous gazing with inferior light : so that the pink-coloured spectrum derived from ten to twenty seconds ' gazing in low degrees of light , could be elicited by a single glance under bright sunshine .
The results , therefore , were clearly in relation to the intensity of the impression ; and , taken in the form of a general proposition , we shall not be far wrong , perhaps , in considering the intensity of impression as the product of the time of gazing into the relative quantity of light admitted by the aperture .
The relation of the colours primarily elicited to the intensity of the impression , yielded ( comparatively and roughly taken ) the following series , -crimson-pink , purple-pink , purple , blue , green , the latter being the produce of the highest intensity tried .
As in the foregoing researches , the relative degrees of light were but broadly assumed , whilst the comparative experiments comprised a variety of differences affecting the photochromatic results , another series of experiments on the simple effects of degrees of light was instituted , in which all these other differences were eliminated .
In this series the quantity of light was varied by partial or sectional screens of glass , or other transparent or semitransparent substances .
The results were particularly satisfactory , -different tints or shades of colour being obtained by the same view and in the same spectrum of a window-aperture , when different thicknesses of window glass were placed in the several sections ( six in number ) into which the aperture was divided .
A beautiful example of the chromatic effects of partial and varied screening of light on the optical spectrum elicited , was incidentally obtained by viewing an aperture in the clouds , when the sky was otherwise densely covered .
After gazing for a few seconds on the middle of this aperture , the spectrum , as viewed with gently closed eyes , exhibited a singular variety of the richest tints according to the differences in the light screened off by the edges of the cloud and by certain little patches within the aperture .
The spectrum resembled the variegation and richness of colouring as elicited in certain transparent or semitransparent substances when examined by polarized light .
The experiments on binocular and multiple spectra , as described in Part I. of the author 's paper , being repeated under degrees of light adequate for yielding colour , gave pictures , in many cases , of much interest and beauty .
The multiple spectra , however , which proved the most strikingly beautiful , were derived from the sun , which was viewed indirectly , and on occasions , near setting , in winter , when the intensity of its light was duly subdued by passing through a dense condition of atmosphere .
Under such circumstances , images , sometimes in 100 to 150 repetitions , were impressed on the retina by rapid glances at the sky immediately around the sun .
These were taken by quick movements of the head , winking intermediately , at the rate of 60 to 120 impressions in the minute ; and the result , when viewed with closed eyes , presented a splendid spectacle like a cluster of coloured stars , or rather of round planetary discs , brilliant in green , yellow , orange , red , crimson and purple !
Besides the experiments thus far described , in which the spectral images were viewed , for the most part , with gently closed eyes kept steadily in the direction in which the objects were gazed on , the differences , which were often very remarkable , produced by alterations in the quantity of light admitted into the chamber of the eye whilst the image was viewed , were also investigated .
Sometimes the smallest change in the light thus transmitted was found to alter greatly the character of the spectrum .
In certain cases , the compressing of the eyelids , or the mere passing of the hands betwixt the eyes and the light , would serve to change a negative picture into a positive , or the colours , as viewed in the usual way , into their complementary tints .
The paper concludes with a considerable series of deductions , applications and general results.-1 .
As to the elucidation yielded by these ocular spectra , of the theory of vision.-2 .
Of the principles of binocular and simple vision.-3 .
Of the action of the retina for the obliterating of impressed images , and the recovery of a normal condition.-4 .
Of the nature of certain disturbing and dazzling effects of vision by strong light.-5 .
Of the phenomena of certain spectral illusions.-6 .
As to the practical use of the process of examining the ocular spectra , for the determination of quantities of light relatively intercepted by different portions or thicknesses of glass or other transparent media.-7 .
For assisting in the determination of the relative degrees of illumination of lamps , candles , &amp;c. , and of quantities of light reflected from opake objects.-8 .
For aiding in the selection and harmonising of colours in ornamental and decorative departments of art.-9 .
For the examination of the condition of the interior of the eyes in certain states of disease .
The author having had the opportunity of trying this process in case of amaurosis , found that it afforded a perfect picture of defects in the surface of the retina of the eyes separately , when there was no visible defect , and when the patient had no other perception of a diseased eye , or patch on the retinal surface , except the partial distortion or interruption of vision .
Founded on this , the author suggests a plan of scotometrical examination of retinal defects , by which not only the accurate form and relative proportions of diseased patches on the retina may be determined , but their actual dimensions may probably be deduced .

