A paper was read , entitled , " On the Corpuscles of the Blood .
" Part II .
By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S.S. L. and E. The observations recorded in this memoir are founded on an ex ?
amination of the blood in every class of vertebrated animals , in some of the Invertebrata , and in the embryo of Mammalia and Birds .
The nucleus of the blood-corpuscle , usually considered as a single object , is here represented as composed , in some instances , of two , three , or even many parts ; these parts having a constant and determinate form .
In the substance surrounding the nucleus , the author has frequently been able to discern , not merely " red colouring matter , " but cell-like objects ; and he points out an orifice as existing at certain periods in the delicate membrane by which this substance is surrounded .
In a former memoir he had differed no less from pre ?
vious observers regarding " cells .
" He had shown , for instance , that the nucleus of the cell , instead of being " cast off as useless , and absorbed , " is a centre for the origin , not only of the transitory contents of its own cell , but also of the two or three principal and last-formed cells , destined to succeed that cell ; and that a separation of the nucleus into two or three parts , is not , as Dr. Henle had supposed in the case of the Pus and Mucus-globule ( the only instances in which the separation in question had been observed ) , the effect of acetic acid , used in the examination , ?
but that such separation is natural , apparently common to nuclei in general , and forming part of the process by which cells are reproduced .
The author had far ?
there shown the so-called nucleolus to be not a distinct object existing before the nucleus , but merely one of a series of appearances arising in succession , the one within the other , at a certain part of the nucleus , and continuing to arise even after the formation of the cell .
These views he now confirms ; and in the present paper shows that they admit of being extended to the corpuscles of the blood .
He then compares appearances observed in the latter with those he had traced in the ovum .
These relate to the number of parts of which the nucleus is at different periods composed , ?
the nature of the nucleolus , ?
the communication between the nucleolus and the exterior of the cell , ?
the formation of the contents of the cell out of the nucleus , ?
the final division of the nucleus into the foundations of a limited number of young cells , destined to succeed the parent cell , ?
and the escape of the young cells for this purpose .
It follows from these investigations , that the corpuscles of the blood are gene ?
rated by a process essentially the same as that giving origin to those cells which are the immediate successors of the germinal vesicle , or original parent cell ; it being also by a continuation of the same process that the corpuscle of the blood divides itself into the minuter objects figured by the author in his former paper on the blood .
He adds , that in its form and internal state , the blood-corpuscle found in the adult of certain animals , very much resembles that existing only in the foetal life of others .
It is incidentally remarked , that the foetal brain , at certain periods , appears to consist almost entirely of objects very much resembling those which , in some stages , form the nuclei in the foetal corpuscles of the blood .
The author concludes , by expressing his opinion , that the mode of evolution of the minute mammiferous ovum is deserving of close attention , in connexion with some of the processes by which nourishment is communicated , and the growth of the body effected , at all future periods of life .
January 21 , 1841 .
Sir JOHN BARROW , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
Peyton Blackiston , M.A. &amp; M.D. , Captain Henry Rowland Brandreth , R.E. , and Joseph Edye , Esq. , were balloted for and duly elected into the Society .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " On the action of certain Inorganic Compounds , when introduced directly into the Blood .
" Bv J. Blake , Esq , , M.R.C.S. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S.

