V. Extracts of two Letters from the Reverend Mr Abraham de la Pryme , F. R. S , to the Publisher , concerning Subterraneous Trees , the Bitings of Mad Dogs , &amp;c. Thorn , March 14 .
170~ SInce I writ last unto you , I have had the good fortune to get two or three very considerable new Informations about the great Fir-trees that formerly grew in these Levels , which I thought not unworthy of communicating unto you .
Being at Hatfield the other day , I was told by several Gentlemen , that about 20 years ago died one Saunderson of that Town , aged near 80 years , whose Father , much of the same age , did frequently assure him , and other Gentlemen that were curious in the matter , that he could very well remember many hundreds of great Fir-trees , standing one here and another there , in a languishing decaying condition , half as high as Houses , and some higher , whose tops were all dead , yet their Boughs and Branches always green and flourishing , growing all of them in these Levels : And John Hatfield of Hatfield , Esq ; Councellor at Law , who is not above 40 years of age , has by him a large Twig that his Father plucked off from the Sprout of a green and flourishing Shrub of Fir that grew from the great Root of one of the same kind in these Commons .
And an old man of Croul tells me , that he has heard his Father say , that he could remember multitudes of Shrubs , and small Fir-trees growing here while this Country was a Chase , and while the Vert was preserved before the Drainage .
And lastly , in many old Charters that I have seen of the Pious Roger de Moubray , Lord of Axholm , who lived in the year 13 Fffffff2 rel relating to Hurst , Bellwood , Ross , Santoft , &amp;c. it appears that then all these places were covered with a great old decaying Forest or Wood ; and not them only , but also all that low Common between Croul Causey and Authrop upon Trent ; and tho there be not one stick of any such thing now to be seen , yet it is not only plainly manifest that the same was true from the Roots there found , but also from the said Roots , that most of the Trees that then grew there were Firs .
All which were but the aftergrowth , and Relicts of the famous great Forest formerly described unto you , that was destroyed by the Conquering Romans .
I heartily thank you for your great kindness , in convincing me that those Trees so oft before mentioned , are Fir-Trees , and not Pitch-Trees , which I called by the latter name in some of my Letters unto you ; that which led me into this Error was not only the Expressions of some famous Authors , who had not accurately enough distinguished the Trees ; but also the Deference that I would fain have had to the Honour of the most Famous Hero Julius Caesar , who so positively says that no Firs grow in Britain : tho indeed I might with reason have given as little heed to him in that , as to the next Tree that he mentions , to wit , the Beech , which he excludes also ; and which is so common in every part of this famous Nation .
Thorn , March , 27 .
1702 .
IT is certain that nothing advances Knowledge more than a reading and free Communication of what passes Curious in every part : So , tho many have writ de Venenis &amp; de his qui a Canibus Rabidis momorsi fuerunt , as the Learned Paraeus , Donatus , Codronchus , &amp;c. and have communicated Relations of such to the Learned World ; yet give me leave to add another , that happened in the Family of one of the nearest Relations of mine in these parts , some few years ago , upon the bite of a Mad Dog , which may perhaps yield you some Speculations not unacceptable , and help to discover the subtilty of the Poison of those Creatures , and how it affects Man .
In 1695 .
my Brother had a pretty grey-hound Bitch that had Whelps ; soon after came a Mad Dog and bit this Bitch unknown to the Family , upon which about 3 weeks after she run mad , and they were forced to kill her ; but saving her Whelps , because that no sign of Madness appeared in them , in about 3 weeks more they all pulled out one another 's Throats except one , which escaping , my Brother 's men valued and nourished , made much of it , and stroked it : at length , perceiving that it could not lap , nor swallow any liquid thing , they put their Fingers in its Mouth , and felt its Tongue and Throat , but finding nothing wrong therein as far as they could discover , they let it alone a day or two longer , and then it ran mad and died .
They being thus dead were soon forgot , until that about 3 weeks after , my Brother 's Servant , a most strong laborious Man , that had frequently put his Fingers into the Whelps mouth , begun to be troubled now and then with an exceeding acute pain in the Head , sometimes once , sometimes twice a day , so very vehement that he was forced to hold his Head with both his hands , to hinder it from riving in two , which fits commonly held him about an hour at a time , in which his Throat would contract , as he said , and his Pulse tremble , and his Eyes behold every thing of a fiery red colour .
Thus was he tormented for a whole week together , but being of a strong constitution , and returning to his labour in every interval , he sweat and wrought it off , without any Physic .
But it went worse with one of his fellow Servants , a young Apprentice of about 14 years of age , who had made as much of the Whelp as he , but was not of so strong a Constitution , he was seized also with a pain in his Head , was somewhat Feverish , sometimes better , sometimes worse , coughed much , had a good stomach , eat heartily , but could drink nothing .
I know not what I ail , says he , I cannot swallow any Beer , &amp;c. and so laughed at it .
When he went out of door , tho there was but a little North Wind , yet he always ran as if it had been for his lise ; when they asked him why he did so , he told them he could not tell-but that the Wind would needs stop his breath .
A day or two after this he was worse , and vomited a strange nasty sort of Matter , like black Blood , which stunk like Sallet Oil , but much stronger ; which he did several times ; after which he would be pretty well , and walk about , but most commonly ran as fast as ever he could , first out of one corner , then into another , then up stairs , then down again , as if it was for his life .
But upon the third day of his confinement within doors he grew perfectly mad , would start , and leap , and twist his Hands and Arms together , point at people , and laugh and talk any thing that came in his Mind .
In some of his fits he was so strong that he was too hard for four young men to hold him down in the Chair where he sat : but as soon as they were over he was lightsome , and laughed , and talked , but all his discourse was of fighting , and how if that they would but let him alone , he would leap upon them , and bite , and tear them to pieces : And when one said unto him , that he was sure that he would not hurt him , he 'd been always his Friend ; he answered sharply that friends and foes were all alike to him , he 'd tear them all in pieces , &amp;c. About an hour after his fit came again , which soon made him speechless , seized wholly upon his Brain , and then he died just before the Physician came .
Sir , I will not here presume to search into the Particles of this Poison , what figure they are of , and how they multiply , how they are able to infect a mass of other particles millions of times bigger than themselves , and destory and dissolve those most curious Bodies that are so fearfully and so wonderfully made .
Neither will I conjecture why they should lie so long , commonly 3 Weeks or a month , and oftentimes much longer , before that they begin to stir ; why Water , or Beer , or any Cold Liquid is against them , &amp;c. because that such things cannot certainly be known but by great Niceness , and repeated Labour and Inspection .
It is pity that the most Noble of Creatures lies at the Mercy of the most ignoble of particles ; and most wonderful that a few Atoms should be able to destroy a whole World , milions of times bigger than themselves .
Roger Moubray , mentioned in my last Letter , did not live in 1390 , as I writ by mistake , but in 1100 ; so that what I said about some Reliques of old Forests of Fir then standing in these Levels , is more observable than I

