]\gt ; Lord Rayleigh .
On the [ May 1 , " " On the Bending of Waves round a Spherical Obstacle By AYLEIGH , F.R.S. Received May l , \mdash ; Read May 2s .
1903 .
In the ' for January 21 , 1903 , Mr. H. M. Macdonald discusses the effect of a reflecting spherical obstacle upon electrical and aerial lvaves for the case where the radius of the sphere is large compared with the wave-length of the vibrations .
The remarkable success of Marconi in signalling across the Atlantic suggests a more decided bending or diffraction of the waves round the protuberanl earth than had been expected , and it imparts a great interest to the theoretical problem .
Mr. Macdonald 's resuIts , if they can be accepted , certainly explain Marconi 's success ; but they appear to me to be open to objection .
If be the source of sound , a point upon the sphere lvhose centre is at , ( the velocity-potential at due to the source ( in the absence of the sphere ) , the angle subtended by OC , Mr. Macdonald finds for the actual potential at ( 1 ) , so that there is no true shadow near the surface of the sphere .
If be infinitely distant , denote ( as usual ) the cosine of the anglo between OP and OC , ( 2 ) .
That the sound should vanish at the point opposite , and be quadcupled at the point immediately under the source is what would be expected ; but that ( however large the sphere ) shadow should be so impe1fect at , for example , , is indeed startling .
The first objection I have to offer is that nothing of this sort is in the case of light .
The relation of wave-length to diameter of obstacle is about the same in Marconi 's as when visible light impinges upon a sphere 1 inch in diameter .
So far as I am aware no of light the dark hemisphere hrough any sensible angle is observed under these conditions even though the sphere is highly polished .
But I shall doubtless sked whether I have any complaint against the mathematical argument which leads up to ( 2 ) .
As in of Sound , S 334 , the question relates to ths ratio veen a certain function of ( the radius ) and its diff.erential may be that at the colltre of the shadow thrown at some distance ( say 1 metre ) behind , is a spot similar to seen when a disc is substituted for sphere .
This effect is observed with a magnifying lens .
If the , situated at the centre of the shadow , be focused upon the sphere , the edge of obstacle is seen bounded by a very narrow ring of light .
1903 .
] Bending of round a Spherical Obstacle .
coefficient with respect to .
The function is that which occurs in the representation of a disturbance which travels , and ( S323 ) ay be denoted by ( 3 ) , where .
( 4 ) .
The differential coefficient of ( 3 ) is ( 5 ) , so that the ttio in the form . .
( 6 ) .
In these cxpressions is the order of the Legendre 's function hich occnrs in the series representative of the velocity-potential .
When is very , the ratio expressed in ( 6 ) may nssume a simplified .
] we see that , if be finite , ultimatelv , so that ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , independent of This is the foundation of the simple resuIt reached by Mr. hIacdonald .
Its validity depends , thelefore , upon the applicability of ( 7 ) to all values of that need to be regarded .
If when is infinite , only finite }-alues of are impo b , ( 7 ) is sufficiently established ; ( S328 ) it appears under these condilions the most import tltf terms are of infinite order .
I think it will be found that for the most important terms is approximately equal to , and accordingly ( is not available .
In any case it could not ) relied upon without further examination .
In ?
of , S 328 , ths prol ) is for the case here } is small , and the calculation is pushed far The esults indicate no definite shadow .
I have commenced culatio for , about the highest value for which the method is cticable .
But it is doubtful whether even this vnluc is high enough to light upon what happens when is

