II .
" On the Sea Saw-dust of the Pacific .
" By JOHN DENIS MACDONALD , Esq. , Assistant Surgeon R.N. Communicated by Captain DENHAM , R.N. , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author gives a description ( illustrated by figures ) of the remarkable little algal so frequently met with in the South Pacific , scattered over the surface of the water in broad streaks and patches of a pale yellowish-brown tint , and which is known under the name of " Sea Saw-dust .
" After adverting to the occurrence of a similar phenomenon in other parts of the globe , and citing the account given of the Trichodesmium erythreumn of the Red Sea by MM .
Evernor Dupont and Montagne , together with a description extracted from the ' Colombo Herald ' of May 14 , 1844 , of what was obviously an example of a vegetable scum of the same kind occurring on the sea off Ceylon , the author remarks , that in the instances met with by himself he did not recognize the feetid odour so generally and pointedly spoken of in the accounts of others .
He then states results of his own observation as follows : " It was rather difficult at first to determine whether our species is to be referred to the Oscillatorida or the Confervidae .
In the latter , a linear series of tubular cells compose the filaments , which are thus said to be jointed , but in the former , although the filaments are tubular , simple and continuous without actual joints , a pseudo-jointed appearance is presented by the apposition of the little masses of contained colouring matter .
Notwithstanding , having submitted the 'sea saw-dust ' of the Pacific to microscopic examination on several occasions , I was much inclined to believe that the filaments were actually jointed ; and this view is supported by the circumstance that an empty tubule , or one in which the parietes may be traced continuously without being interrupted by joints or internal septa , has never fallen under our notice ; besides which the filaments are exceedingly brittle , usually suffering cleavage in the transverse direction .
It , however , undoubtedly belongs to the Oscillatoridce .
" When the filaments are first removed from the water , they may be observed adhering side by side in little bundles or fasciculi ; and besides the colouring matter , the little cells , or at least the intervals between the septa , contain globules of air , which sufficiently account for their buoyancy ; and , moreover , in this respect , although their abiding place is the open ocean , their habit can scarcely be regarded as very different from that of those species which flourish in damp localities exposed to the atmosphere .
" The filaments are all very short compared with their diameter , with rounded extremities ; and when immersed some little time in fluid so that the contained air-bubbles make their escape or are taken up , the pale colouring matter appears to fill the cells completely , and a central portion , a little darker than the rest , may be distinctly perceived in each compartment intersected by a very delicate transverse partition .
" We have found this species off the coast of Australia and in Moreton Bay , amongst the Polynesian Islands , and on two separate occasions off the Loyalty Group , in nearly the same geographical position .
"

