A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Electro-chemical Polarity of Gases .
" By W. R. Grove , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received January 7 , 1852 .
The author refers to the experiments of Faraday on dielectric induction , to those of Gassiot on the increase of electrical effects of tension , according as the chemical intensities of a voltaic battery are increased , and to other results , which , though supporting the view of a physico-polar state of gaseous substances intervening between oppositely electrified surfaces , have not hitherto shown any change in the arrangement of the gaseous particles dependent upon their chemical characteristics .
The electric or voltaic disruptive discharge has hitherto presented only one phenomenon which offers any analogy to electrolysis , viz. that observed by Mr. Gassiot and others , of the positive terminal being more intensely heated than the negative , when the voltaic discharge passes between metals .
'With the voltaic arc the effects of heat and the destruction of the terminals so interfere with any effects properly due to the transmission of the electric current , that it is next to impossible to eliminate the latter ; on the other hand , with the electric spark from an ordinary machine , the quantity of matter acted on is too minute to give satisfactory evidence of the changes taking place .
Mr. Grove sought an intermediate degree of electrical action , and by the aid of an apparatus of Ruhmkorf for producing a powerful secondary current , the results detailed in this paper were mainly obtained .
A polished silver plate is laid on the pump plate of a good airpump , and a metallic point is attached to the rod passing through a collar of leathers at the top of the receiver , the point being adjusted at from one-eighth to one-fourth of an inch distance from the plate .
Caustic potash is kept suspended in the receiver , and a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen , or atmospheric air and hydrogen , allowed to enter it , and then attenuated until the barometer stands at half an inch ; the discharges from the secondary coil are now made to pass between the point and the plate , when if the latter be positive it is oxidated , if negative the spot of oxide is reduced .
If there be excess of oxygen and little or no hydrogen , oxidation takes place , whether the plate be positive or negative , though in different degrees ; and if the gas be wholly or mainly hydrogen , reduction takes place whether the plate be positive or negative .
At certain intermediate states of mixture rings or zones of alternate oxidation and reduction are shown , quite distinguishable from the ordinary succession of colours of thin plates , and showing alternations or periods of interference of electrical action .
The author then gives the results of experiments with several other metals , of which bismuth was the only one he found to produce effects anything like equal to the silver , though other metals showed them in some degree .
He also varied the gas or gases employed , and details the results obtained with several gases ; among them carbonic oxide is the most worthy of note , as with it effects are produced similar to those with the mixture of oxygen and hydrogen , viz. oxidation when the plate was positive , and reduction when it was negative .
The author 's theory or mode of explaining the results is as follows .
The discharges are successive , not continuous , and antecedent to each discharge the intervening gas is thrown into a state of chemical polarity , similar to that which takes place in an electrolyte anterior to electrolysis ; by this means the positive terminal has in juxtaposition with it oxygen or an electro-negative gas ; the discharge takes place , and by the superficial ignition the layer of oxygen combines with the metal in contact with it .
Conversely , when the oxidated surface is negative and in contact with an electro-positive gas , the heat of the discharge produces reduction .
The fact of oxidation only taking place when air or oxygen alone are present , and reduction only when hydrogen is present , he considers irreconcilable with the effects being attributable to the discharge itself , or to their being regarded as analogous to electrolysis ; while these phenomena are corroborative of the view he puts forth .
The author refers to the experiments of Priestley , Karsten and others , in which spots or marks have been shown to be produced by electrical discharge , but which do not otherwise bear upon the ob. .
jects sought to be elucidated by this paper .

