On the Chemical Nature of a Wax from China .
" By Benjamin Collins Brodie , Esq. Communicated by Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie , Bart. , F.R.S. The wax which is the subject of this investigation , is a substance imported into this country from China .
It has the general appearance of spermaceti , but is harder than that body .
The author gives reasons for believing that this wax , like bees'-wax , is a secretion from an insect .
The wax may be decomposed by fusion with hydrate of potash , by which process two substances are procured ; namely , a wax acid , which , combined with the potash , forms a soap ; and another body which is dissolved in the soap solution .
By precipitation with chloride of barium and washing out the dried baryta salt with ether , or other suitable solvents , the two substances may be separated .
The substance dissolved in the ether has the appearance of a wax .
By crystallization its melting-point may be raised to 79 ?
C. , at which point it is fixed .
The body , when analysed , gave numbers agreeing with the formula C54 H56 02 , the formula , namely , of the alcohol of cerotic acid , the acid which in a previous paper the author has shown to exist in a free condition in bees'-wax , and the constitution of which he there determined .
To this alcohol the author gives the name of cerotine .
By oxidation , by means of lime and potash , the alcohol is capable of being converted into cerotic acid , C54 H54 04 .
The analyses of the acid and of its silver salt are given .
The formula of the alcohol is further confirmed by the analysis of its combination with sulphuric acid ; and the process to be employed to procure this substance is detailed .
Its formula is SO3 , C54 H5 0+ HO ; the sulphate of the oxide of cerotyle , using the usual chemical language to express the nature of the combination .
By the action of chlorine on the alcohol , the alcohol-type is destroyed , and a body is formed , analogous to chloral , containing two equivalents of hydrogen less than the alcohol itself .
The analyses lead to the formula C54 C401O 02 .
The substance has the appearance of a resin .
By decomposing the above-mentioned baryta salt , after the cerotine has been entirely removed by washing with suitable solvents , the same cerotic acid may be obtained as that into which the alcohol itself is converted by oxidation .
The analysis of the acid and of its silver salt is given .
This Chinese wax cannot be distilled without decomposition .
By its distillation two substances are procured ; cerotic acid , C54 H54 04 , and hydrocarbon .
The hydrocarbon consists principally of a solid matter , one of those substances which , in the opinion of the author , have been indiscriminately classed together under the general name of paraffine .
This substance , to which he gives the name of cerotine , contains equal equivalents of hydrogen and carbon , and has the formula C54 H54 .
This formula is determined with precision by the action of chlorine on the substance , which gives rise to a series of products of substitution , of which several were analysed , namely the substances H{ 35 C { H33 Ci H32 C54 lcil 'C54 C1 C54 C122 The density of the vapour of cerotine cannot be taken , as , by distillation , it is decomposed .
The experiment was made of distilling and redistilling the substance in a sealed tube , in which cases it passes entirely into fluid and gaseous hydrocarbon .
The analysis of the Chinese wax itself corresponds with the formula C108 H108 04 , which admits of a simple explanation of the nature of its decompositions : its decomposition by potash being explained by the equation C108 H10 04 + KO HO= ( C54 H3 03+ KO ) + C54 H56 02 , and its decomposition by heat by the equation C108 10s 04 = C54 H54 04 + C54 H54 , the substance itself belonging to the class of compound ethers .
The author announces his intention of following up this paper by a third on the constitution of myricine .
May 18 , 1848 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
" On a new case of the Interference of Light .
" By the Rev. Baden Powell , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
The principal experiment exhibiting the newly-observed case of interference described by the author , is the following : into a hollow prism or trough containing oil of sassafras , anise , cassia , &amp;c. , a plate of glass is dipped so as to intercept the light passing through the upper or thicker half of the prism , and leave the lower half clear : the spectrum of a line of light or narrow slit , is then immediately seen to be covered with dark bands parallel to the slit or edge of the prism .
Some substances , as oil of turpentine , water , &amp;c. , give no bands with this arrangement , but will give them , if a complementary arrangement be adopted , viz. by placing a narrow slip of glass at the bottom of the prism , or so as to intercept the light passing through the thinner half .
The production of the bands in general , and the reason of the difference existing in the cases referred to , are fully accounted for on the theory of waves and interference : whence the following formula is deduced , giving the number of bands ( n ) , when jp and a , , the indices for any ray for the plate and for the medium , are known , of which X is the wave length ; and taking these quantities for any two rays ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the spectrum , r being the thickness of the plate , we have the number of bands between them expressed by The numbers thus calculated agree with observation for many media .
The distinction of the two cases alluded to depends on whether n result positive or negative ; that is , on the relative values of the indices ; also agreeing with observation .

