XX .
A ?
Account of the Trigonometrical Survey carried on in the Years 1-795 , and 1796 , by Order of the Marquis Cornwallis , Master General of the Ordnance .
By Colonel Edward Williams , Captain William Mudge , and Mr. Isaac Dalby .
Communicated by the Duke of Richmond , F. R. S. Read May 11 , 1797 .
PART FIRST .
PREAMBLE .
A bcCORDING to the resolution expressed in the account of the Trigonometrical Survey , printed in the Philosophical Transactions for the year It 795 , we now communicate to the public , through the same channel , a farther relation of its progress .
On referring to the above paper , it will be found that , for the prosecution of this undertaking , a design was formed of proceeding to the westward , with a series of triangles , for the survey of the coast .
This intention has been carried into effect ; and as the small theodolite , or circular instrument , announced in our former communication as then in the hands of Mr. RAMSDEN , was finished early in the summer of 1795 , we are enabled to give a series of triangles , extending , in conjunction with those before given , from the Isle of Thanet , in Kent , to the Land 's End .
In the composition of the following account , we have adhered to the plan adopted in the last , of giving the angles of the great triangles , with their variations ; and we have , with as much brevity as possible , inserted a narrative of each year 's operations .
This will be found , however , to extend only to the First Part , or that containing the particulars of the survey in which the great instrument alone was used .
The remaining contents of this portionof the work , are necessarily confined to the angles of the principal , and secondary triangles , with the calculations of their sides , in feet ; and likewise such data as have no connection with the computations of latitudes and longitudes .
Part the Second contains an account of a survey carried on in Kent , in the years 1795 and 1796 , with the small instrument , by order of the Master General , for completing a map of the eastern and southern parts of that county , for the use of the Board of Ordnance , and the military commanders on the coast .
In Part the First will be found an article , for which we are indebted to Dr. MASKELYNE , the Astronomer Royal .
It contains his demonstration of M. DE LAMBRE'S formula , in .
the Connoissanzce dcs Temps of 1793 , for reducing a distance on the sphere to any great circle near it , or the contrary .
, The practical rule thence derived , for reducing the angles in the plane of the horizon , to those formedby the chords , is very useful and will considerably abridge the trouble which must necessarily arise in computing the chord corrections by any former method .
SECTION FIRST .
ARTICLE I. Of Particulars relating to the Operations of the Year 1795 .
In an early part of this season , from the necessity which existed of completing the map of Kent , mentioned in the preamble , we had conceived that our former intentions , of continuing the survey towards the west , would for the present be relinquished ; as it was not imagined that the telescope of the small circular instrument , then in the hands of Mr. RAMSDEN , could be applied , with good effect , in observing staffs erected on very distant stations .
From the obvious importance , however , of adhering to the first resolution , it was determined that a trial should be made of the excellence of this instrument , in the construction of which extraordinary pains had been taken , by operating with it in Kent , and using it for those purposes to which , if the object before spoken of had not been in view , the great theodolite would have been necessarily applied .
This smaller theodolite , therefore , as a substitute , was in May taken into Kent by Mr. DALBY , and Mr. GARDNER , chief draughtsman in the Tower ; the assistance of the former being necessary , as the stations in the series of 1787 were for the most part unknown to the latter gentleman .
As the former paper , relating to the trigonometrical survey , could not be presented to the Royal Society before the 4th of June , the business did not commence till the 12th of the same month .
The party then left London , and the instrument was taken to Bull Barrow , in Dorsetshire .
On a reference to the account of 1795 , it will be seen , that a station was chosen near Lulworth , and observed both from Nine Barrow Down and Black Down .
It was also intended to be observed from Bull Barrow ; by which means the great triangle , formed by the stations Black Down , Nine Barrow Down , and Bull Barrow , would be divided into , and made to consist of , two smaller triangles .
This , however , it was now found could not be done , as a signal house had been erected near the station at Lulworth , subsequent to the operations in 1794 , which prep vented that .
spot from being afterwards seen at Bull Barrow : but no consequences very injurious can have arisen from the impracticability of making use of this station in the manner originally proposed , since the stations formerly chosen in Portland , with which that of Lulworth was also intended to connect , have not been visited with the instrument .
The stations in that island were selected with a view of observing from them , and Charton Common , some point in the vicinity of Torbay , which might be a proper station in the series intended to be carried along the coast .
Such a situation , however , could not 'be conveniently found , as the view of Devonshire from Charton Common is much interrupted by trees and other obstacles ; and it would have been highly improper to shorten the side , between Pilsden Hill and the coast , by choosing a station more remote from the latter than Charton Common .
As from an inspection of the plan of the triangles annexed to this account , a doubt may be entertained as to the propriety of carrying on so very extensive a series from the short side connecting the stations on Black Down and Mintern Hill ; it must be observed that , admitting the necessity of adopting Bull Barrow for a station , those on Pilsden and Mintern Hills were naturally chosen ; the first , because it connected with Dumpdon ( a station that could not be dispensed with ) .
; and the second , because it was the point most remote fro-n Black Down , being on the brow of the high land overlooking the general surface of Somersetshire .
To connect with the station formerly chosen near Maiden Bradley , two others were selected whilst the party were at Bull Barrow ; one on Ash Beacon , near Sherborne , and the other on the Quantock Hills .
Both these have very commanding views , and will hereafter easily unite with any stations which -may be chosen to the northward .
From Bull Barrow , the instrument was successively taken to the following stations , before any other new ones were chosen , vi .
Mintern , Pilsden , and Charton Common ; and whilst the party were at the latter , nearly all the stations were selected in Devonshire .
In the choice of these , much difficulty occurred , as the face of this county is particularly unfavourable for operations of this kind .
Around Honiton and Chard , there are several small ranges of hills , nearly of an equal height , running in parallel directions .
Near the former are three , thus circumstanced ; viz. Hembury Fort , Comb Raleigh , and Dumpdon .
From the first and second of these , the station on Chartoft Common is not visible ; and it is from the last onlyr that both Pilsden and the Quantock Hills can be seen .
This station , however , has a disadvantage : Comb Raleigh , which ris to the west of it , takes off all view round Tiverton and Silferton ; so that it became indispensably necessary to select a spot on the northern extremity of Dartmoor , called Cawsand Beacon .
To those who are acquainted with the interior of Dartmoor , it will be unnecessary to assign the reason for not having chosen any station .
towards its centre .
It may be sufficient to observe , that two spots were found on its circumference , which Tender the want of it trifling in its consequences .
Independent of the stations to which , as we have before observed , the instrument was taken this year , the following were visited , viz. Dumpdon , Little Haldon , Furland , and Butterton .
From the latter , the party returned to London in the month of October .
ART .
II .
Angles taken in the rear 1795 .
At Bull Barrow .
Between aI Al Mean .
Mintern Hill and Black Down 46 54 33 A 34S75 34 634 Black Down and Nine Barrow Down 84 31 2225 ) 24 Nine Barrow Down and Wingreen 93 33 o05 0.,25 32 59,75J At Mintern , Hill .
Bull Barrow and Black Down 101 39 So }3005 Black Down and Pilsden _ 68 30 45,751 47 4 , On Charton Common .
Little Haldon and Dumpdon 68 12,49)75 '51 , ~25 &gt; 5125 52,75 ) Dtumpdon and Pilsden 93 54 3625 } 3785 007,25 SL~~~ 3 ART .
III .
Of Particulars relating to the Operations of the Year 1796In the account of this Survey , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1795 , page 473 , it is stated , that large stones were sunk in the ground at the extremities of the base of verification on Salisbury Plain .
To render these points permanent , two iron cannon ( selected from among the unserviceable ordinance in Woolwich Warren ) were , towards the end of February , sent to Salisbury , and in the beginning of March inserted at the ends of the base .
The same methods were adopted , for the purpose of fixing these cannon in their proper positions , as those made use of when similar termini were sunk in the ground on Hounslow Heath .
This operation having been completed on the 10th of March , the instrument was shortly after carried to Kit Hill , in Cornwall ; a station , like that on Bindown , chosen rather for the purpose of a secondary , than a principal place of observation .
It would be tedious , and perhaps unnecessary , to enumerate the names of all the stations selected this year , as many of them do not form any part of the series now given to the publie .
We shall , therefore , confine ourselves to such remarks on the subject as may serve to abridge this article .
We have before stated , that a station was chosen on Cawsand Beacon , the northern extremity of Dartmoor , for the purpose of connecting with Dumpdon .
It should have been observed , that to the westward of the former eminence , and near it , there is a hill considerably higher , which in point of situation has many advantages , but which cannot be made use of on account of the ruggedness of its surface , which seem &amp; to render the carrying of the instrument to its top almost impossible .
From this circumstance , and similar impediments , which the high lands remote from the circumference of Dartmoor offer to our operations , it results , that the body of this moor cannot have any great triangles carried over it : such stations were therefore selected this year as may serve , in conjunction with others , , to include this tract of country in a polygon of a small number of sides. .
To make observations for the purpose of hereafter determining the longitude and latitude of the Lizard , , .
was a. print cipal object in this year 's operations ; and as this headland : seems to offer itself as very convenient for a station , it will be right to assign our reasons for not having chosen one upon it .
As no other spot but Hensbarrow Beacon could be found in .
that part of Cornwall proper for a station , it became necessary to fix on the Deadman , or Dodman .
, for another point in the series .
From this place nor part of the land within four miles of the Lizard can be seen , .
as the high ground about Black Head , which is to the eastward of the latter , isnearly in a line between them , and is also much higher than both .
It will be perceived , however , that no evil can result from the want of ' such a station , as the light-houses and the naval-signal-staff at the Lizard , have been intersected from several stations .
The precise spot on which Mr. BRADLEY made his observations in the year 176,9 , for ascertaining the longitude and latitude of this headland , was pointed out by the person .
having the care of the light-houses , who well remembered the common particulars relating to his operations such measurements were made from the light-houses to this spot , as may enable us , at a future period , to compare the results , from the data affordedby the trigonometrical operation , with those deduced front the astronomical observations made by the above gentleman .
It may be also mentioned , that angles were -at the same time taken at the western light-house and signal-staff , for the purpose of finding the situation of the Lizard Point .
We are now to speak of the most important business performed this year ; that of making observations to determine the distance of the Scilly Isles from the Land 's End .
To do this as accurately as possible , it became necessary to find stations affording the longest base .
The hill near Rosemergy , called the Watch , and the station near St. Buryan , are certainly the most advantageous places , because all the islands can be seen from both ; but we could not avail ourselves of the former , as difficulties almost insuperable would have attended an attempt to get the instrument upon it .
Another station was therefore selected , on Karnminnis , near St. Ives ; a spot as well situated as the place spoken of , provided all the islands could be seen : this , however , does not prove to be the case , St. Martin 's Day-Mark being the only object in the Scilly Islands visible from Karnminnis .
From .
the stations near the Land 's End ( Sennen and Pertinney ) , as well as that above mentioned ( St. Buryan ) , St. Agnes ' Light-house , and two objects in St. Mary 's , were observed ; and as the means by which all their distances are determined , except those of the Day-Mark , from the shortness of the bases ( which were , however , the longest that could be found ) are exceptionable , it will be right to mention , that while we were engaged in that part of the operation now spoken of , the air was so unusually clear , that we could sometimes , with the telescope of the great theodolite , discover the soldiers at exercise in St. Mary 's island .
Under this article , it will be convenient to state , that we have endeavoured to find some spot to the westward , on which a base might be measured .
Had we been fortunate in this respect , it undoubtedly would be eminently advantageous ; as those triangles , now extended to the Land 's End , would , in that case , be verified in some part of the new series .
In Devonshire and Cornwall , however , no place has been discovered by any means fit for the purpose ; so that our communicating this work , under the circumstances attending it , is a matter of necessity .
In the present and former seasons , such stations were selected and observed , as were judged to be proper for the future use of the small instrument ; and as we had experienced , in the early stage of this Survey , much delay and disappointment from the white lights notbeing always seen when fired on distant stations , we have since substituted lamps and staffs in their stead .
The operations of the present year were continued till October , when the party returned to London .
ART .
IV .
Angles taken in the Tear 1796 .
At Kit Hill .
Between / , , Mean .
Butterton and Maker Heights 48 36 45 Maker Heights and Bindown _ 53 21 13,775 Carraton Hill and Bindown 5 ? ?
45 31 ART .
V. Situations of the Stations .
Mintern , or Revel 's Hill .
This station is in Dorsetshire , and situated on Revel 's Hill , which is not far from Mintern .
It is 17 feet N. E. from the corner of the hedge .
Pilsden .
This station is alsoin Dorsetshire , and near Broadwrindsor .
The point is on the S. E. corner of the old parapet .
Charton Common .
The station is in the field adjoining to , and also to the westward of , the Common , and is about two miles from Lyme : it is 50 yards from the eastern hedge , and may be easily found , as Black Down is only visible from that spot , being -seen between two trees .
Dumpdon ; about three miles N. E. of Honiton .
The station is 1o feet northward of the hedge of the plantation , and nearly on the highest part of the hill .
Little Haldon ; near Teignmouth , in Devonshire .
The station is 8o yards from the Direction Post , and in a line with it and the Obelisk on Great Haldon .
Cawsand Beacon ; near South Zeal .
The station is about 200 feet north of the Karn , or great heap of stones .
Rippin Tor .
This station is also on Dartmnoor , and about 5 miles from Ashburton .
The point is mid-way between the two heaps of stones .
Furland ; a field near the turnpike-gate between Brixen and Dartmouth .
The station is near the stone , erected in the middle of the field .
Butterton .
The station is 45 feet S. W. of the Karn , on the hill called by this name , and about i mile from Ivy Bridge .
The Bolt Head .
The station is on the spot called White Soar , above the Bolt ; it is 95 feet in the line produced , northward , from the west side of the signal-house , and about go feet from the nearest corner of it .
Maker Heights .
This spot is near Cawsand , and the station is 45 feet from the great flag-staff , in the line produced from Statten Battery passing by the side of the staff .
Kit Hill , near Callington .
The station is on the S. W. bas- , tion of a work , similar to an Indian fortification .
Carraton Hill .
This station is about 4 miles north of Liskeard ; and the point 1io yards south of the highest Karn on the top of the hill .
Bindown , near Looe .
The station is Ao yards eastward of the barrow on this hill .
Lansallos .
The station is in a field belonging to Polvinton Farm , which is near that town .
The point is 159 feet from the western bank , and 9gfrom the southern one .
On Bodmin Down .
The station i 0o yards south of the high road , and about a quarter of a mile east of the turnpike gate .
The point is in the centre of a remarkable ring .
Hensbarrow Beacon , near St. Roach .
The station is on the top of the barrow .
The Deadman , or Dodman Head .
The station is about 40 feet south of the bank , and nearly ioo yards to the east of the entrance into the enclosure .
St. Agnes ' Beacon .
The station is on the southern brow of the beacon , and about 8o yards from the tower .
Karnbonellis .
The station is go yards south of the northern Karn , or heap of stones .
The hill called Karnbonellis is near Porcillis .
Pertihney .
The station is in the middle of the ring on its top .
This hill is about 2 miles eastward of St. Just .
Sennen .
This station is in the-north-west corner-of a field belonging to Mr. WILLIAMS .
The field may be easily found , as there is no other spot -near the town of Sennen , from which the Longship 's Light-house , Pertinney , and St. Buryan , can be seen .
Karnminnis , near St. Ives .
The station on the top of this hill , may be found from the following measurements : Feet .
In .
The station from 3 large F88 from the south moor-stones , south of &lt; 11 o north k stones .
the hedge .
l4 1 west St. Buryan .
The station is in a field adjoining the town , and by the side of the Penzance road .
It is 84j feet from the stile , and 48 feet from a large stone in the northern hedge .
This stone is 8i feet from the stile ; the station , this stone , and Chapel Karnbury , being in a right line .
ART .
vi .
Demonstration of M. de Lambre 's Formula in the Connoissance des Temps of 1793 , for reducing a Distance on the Sphere to any great Circle near it , or the contrary .
By Nevil Maskelyne , D. D. F. R. S. and Astronomer Royal .
Put A= angle subtended by two terrestrial objects ; a= the same ' reduced to the horizon ; H , h the two apparent altitudes : if either is a depression , it must be taken negative .
Byspherics , c , A =c , a.c , H.c , h + s , H.s , h. Put A-a +d a , where da signifies A-a , and not their differential .
Bytrigonometryc , A c , a. c , d a--s , a. s , d a-c , ax l-vs .
d a.S a. s , da c , a -c , ax 2 s1 , da -s , a. s , da ( by theos , 1 " : 1":l : s , d a ( in parts of radius unity ) : x s , d a , d a in s , it seconds , IXn u= l l , , x n--2s , #-d a. 't-a-l xn -da .
s , jLda .
'ta-I " / xda ' .
s , da .
' a *.T Ia Sr - , ' .
ifwe put n-s7-j x t , 2a s , ( H h ) -t , a. s x(H + b ) , and da=a number of seconds , we shall have d and a. s , ?
d a. 't , a ; and , for the most part , without any sensible error , da=n n. s , ?
n. 't , a. Table 1 .
contains I(tta and 1)x t , Ta Table II .
contains 1 0000 10000 10000 x ?
, 2 ( H t h ) .
Table III .
contains the term -n .
s ?
n. 't , a. The argument on the side is a , and that on the top is n or the result found by the help of the two first tables .
If this correction should be considerable , with the value of d a , found after this correction has been applied , enter Table III .
again at the top , and with a on the side as before ; the number now found subtracted from n will give the correct value of d a. By the investigation , da=-2't , 2a.vsH z-h--t , ?
2a.vs , H ?
+/ h-vs , da.'ta , where the upper or lower signs are to be used , according as the objects are on the same , or on contrary sides of the great circle to which they are referred ; the third term will be negative or positive , according as a is less or more than go9.* If da should come out negative , A will be less than a , or a greater than A. In the case of reducing a spheric angle to the angle between the chords , the spheric angle will be represented by a , and the angle between the chords by A=a+d a ; and da= 2It 2 a. vs. H h--t , 2 a.vs H+ h-vs , d a , 't , a ( if Dd represent the arcs to the chords)-'tJ2a .
vs. 2 ( D - , d ) -2 t , a. vs,2 ( D + d ) vs , d a. 't , a ; A= a_ 2t,2a.v s , -D +d2 It -La .
vs ID d ) ) vys d a. 't , a ; where the last term will change its sign to affirmative , if a is greater than go ' .
If the answer is required in seconds , the correction must be multiplied by 206265 , the number of seconds in an arc = radius .
: The calculation will be easily made by logarithms .
Practical Rule .
The practical rule deduced from the above conclusions is the following , and given in the words of the Astronomer Royal .
" To the constant logarithm 5,0134 add L. t , a and L. " cv sD+ d ; the sum diminished by 20 in the index is the " c logarithm of the first part of the value of da in seconds , " which is always negative .
To the constant logarithm 5 , o34 , " c add L. t ' , 2 a , and L. vs , D d , the sum diminished by 20 " in the index , is the logarithm of the second part in seconds , " which is always affirmative ' .
These two joined together , ac " cording to their proper signs , will give the approximate value " of d a. To its logarithmic versed sine , add L. t ' , a and con"stant logarithm 5,3144 , the sum , diminished by 20 in the " index , will be the logarithm of the third part in seconds , " which will be negative or affirmative , according as a is less " or more than goo .
This applied according to its sign , to the 3 N,2 " approximate value of d a , will give the correct value of d a. " If the third part comes out considerable , it should be com"puted anew with the last value of d a. The value of d a , finally corrected , applied to a , will give A , the angle between " the chords .
" In the application of the above rule , to the computation of such corrections as may be applied to the angles of any triangles in this survey , it is manifest that the last step may be entirely neglected on account of the smallness of the approximate value of d a , whose versed sine is one of the arguments .
Being , therefore , confined to the use of the two first steps , the operation is very short .
An example is here given in the computation of the correction for reducing the angle at Chanctonbury Ring in .
the 39th triangle , given in the last account ( see Phil. Trans. for 1795 p. 492 ) , to that formed by the chords EXAMPLE .
Constant logarithm 5,0134 5,0134 Log. tang .
I { a = 780 56 ' 10,71 I2 Log. co .
tang.a 9,2887 Log..vs 4H+ bI9 53",5 5,2237 Log.vs..H-b5"53"$5 4,1669 0 , ; 9483 +.8",88 _ 2,4690 + 0o3,0 ist correction 8,88 zd correction + 0,03 8,85 the correction required .
At St. Buryan .
The ground at Karnminnis elev .
24 32 at Karnbonellis elev .
6 50 N. B. 6 " must be subtracted from the elevations , and added to the depressions , on account of the error in the parallelism of the line of collimation of the telescope , and the rod attached to its side , upon which the level is hung .
The axis of the telescope was about 5feet from the ground at all the above stations .
ART .
TI .
Terrestrial Refractions .
Between Mean Refraction .
Maker and Kit Hill 4 of the contained arc .
Butterton and Kit Hill 8 Bindown and Lansallos 9 Nine Barrow Down and Black Down To Maker and Lansallos I To Maker and the Bolt Head To Carraton Hill and Bindown Karnbonellis and St Buryan Maker and Bindown _ Adz Hensbarrow and the Deadman St. Agnes ' Beacon and the Deadman Y St. Agnes ' Beacon and Karnminnis -GIl Dumpdon and Cawsand Beacon T3I HaDdon and Cawsand Beacon T3 Kit Hill and Bindown TT Carraton-iill and Hensbarrow Between Mean Refraction .
Lansallos and the Deadman r1 of the contained arc .
Hensbarrow and St. Agnes ' Beacon ' Karnbonellis and Karnminnis Furland and Haldon TT Butterton and Maker Butterton and Carraton Hill _ Maker and Carraton Hill Karnbonellis and the Deadman Karnbonellis and St. Agnes ' Beacon Karnminnis and St. Buryan Ti Hensbarrow and Bodmin Down r Lansallos and Bodmin Butterton and the Bolt Head .
I Haldon and Charton Common Rippin Tor and Cawsand Beacon T Black Down and Bull Barrow iT Black Down and Pilsden Hill Black Doxwn and Charton Common I Lansallos and Hensbarrow rI Rippin Tor and Haldon iT JI Butterton and Furland Butterton and Rippin Tor _ Kit Hill and Carraton Pilsden Hill and Charton Common iT Wingreen and Bull Barrow 3T Lansallos and Carraton Hill 3T Haldon and the Horizon of the Sea I Pilsden Hill and the Horizon of the Sea -tI The mean refractions were found by the following rules .
i. Reduce the elevations , or depressions , to the place of the axis of the telescope at each station , .
by adding , or subtracting , as the case may require , the angle at the place of observation , subtended by the vertical height between the object , whose elevation or depression was observed , and the axis of the telescope when at that station.* 2 .
Then , if both are depressionss , subtract their sum from the contained arc , and half the remainder is the mean re-fraction. .
A. If one is a depression and the other an elevation , .
take their difference .
Then , if the depression is greater than the elevation , subtract the difference from the contained arc , and half the remainder is the mean refraction .
But if the elevation is greatest , add the difference to the contained are .
and half the sumn is the mean refraction ART .
iII .
Table containing the Heights of the Stations .
Stations .
Heights .
Black Down 817 feet .
, Charton Common 582 Little Haldon 818 Rippin Tor 1549 Furland 589 From those corrected heights , the others to the northward have been deduced .
The heights to the westward of Butterton were determined from that of Maker .
A mean of two or three results , by using -Iof the contained arcs for refraction , is taken for the height of the station on Mintern Hill .
We subjoin the following elevations and depressions , for the use of those who may wish to examine the tables of heights and refractions , in the Philosophical Transactions for 1795 .
And here it is to be noted , that the axis of the telescope was always about Ad feet from the ground , unless the contrary is specified .
At Hanger Hill .
I II The ground at St. Ann 's Hill depr .
4 36 at Banstead elev .
1o 39 At St. Ann 's Hill .
The ground at Bagshot Heath elev .
11 231 Instrument on the half at Banstead elev .
1o 2 .
scaffold : the axis of the at Hanger Hill depr .
63J telescope 20{ feet high .
The top of the flagstaff near Hampton Poor House depr .
12 54 N. B. The flagstaff was about 41 feet high .
Near Hampton Poor House .
The ground at St. Ann 's Hill elev .
8 17 Instrument on the whole scaffold : the axis about 361 feet high .
ART .
II .
Triangles for ascertaining the Distances of the Eddystone Light-house , from the Flagstaff of Plymouth Garrison , and the Rame-head .
The ball on the lantern of the Light-house was observed from the stations on Butterton , Kit Hill , and Carraton Hill ; and as much uncertainty has heretofore existed , with respect to a knowledge of its true distance from any point in the neighbourhood of Plymouth , observations were made on various arcs of the circle of the instrument , at the two first stations .
The triangles are the following .
Distance from Butterton to Kit Hill 10o0969feet .
ranges.~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
OmNo .
Tr'angles .
Observed Distances of the stations from angles .
the intersected objects .
Feet .
3o3Butterton 66 46 21 VEddystone LightF 12 1159 Kit Hill 64 27 46j house L 123399 Eddystone Light-housel Distance from Butterton to Carraton Hill 131576 feet .
3o4 Butterton 6o 31 Eddystone Light12.118 Carraton Hill 5.5 52 41 1house tj26863 |Eddystone Light-bousel With the distance of the Eddystone Light-house from Kit 'Hill , and also that of the Flagstaff in Plymouth garrison from the same station , we find the distant from the Light-house to the Flagstaff m 730o61 feet ; * the observed angle being 290 42 ' 34 " : and , computing with the data obtained from the lst triangle , and the 223d , For the purpose of ascertaining the situation of the Lizard Point , two angles in the following triangle were observed with a sextant , viz. Naval-Signal-staff 77 4 Western Light-house 60 jo Lizard Point These , with the computed distance from the Signal-staff to the Light-house , give the distance of the Lizard Point from the Signal staf ?
4l91feet .
Hence , the distance of the point LLight-house 2700J from the station on Karnbonellis is 81o85 feet , the angle at that station , between the Lizard Point and Western Light-house , being 1i S5 ' 47 " .
With respect to the means by which the situation of the spot , on which Mr. BRADLEY erected his observatory in 1769 , may hereafter be determined , it will be readil understood from the following diagram ; where E is the Eastern Light-house , W the Western Light-house , F the Signal-staff , P the Lizard Point , and 0 the place of the Observatory .
The distance between the spot 0 , and M , * the place where his meridian mark was fixed , we measured and found = 8oo feet ; M being ?
4 feet north of the line joining the centres of the Light-houses .
P No. Triangles .
Observed Distances of the stations from angles cor .
the intersected objects .
Feet .
314 St. Buryan -83 24 Windmill in St. f 172183q Pertinney 92 26 33/ Mary 's 1712-03 Windmill in St. Mary 's _ -_:d___ 315 St. Buryan 82 8 i8 Flagstaff in St. 890 Pertinney 34 8f Marys &lt; jL ?
2 Flagstaff of the fort , in St. Ma ry 's X The distance from the Day-Mark to Karnminnis , as obtained from the 3ogth triangle , is 190985 feet , and by the 3ioth , 190989 feet which differs only 4 feet from the former ; and by the Soth and g iith triangles , the difference of the distances from the same obhject , to the station on Pertinney , is 17 feet ; which , allowing for the shortness of the bases , must be considered as trifling .
: We may presume , therefore , that had not the Day-Mark been seen from Karnminnis , but from Sennen , and Pertinney alone , the observations from which the angles of the1 3ith triangle are derived would have afforded the means of computing the .
distance with sufficient precision .
In like manner the 312th and 313th triangles seem to prove , that the observations made to St. Agnes ' Light-house were sufficiently accurate , as there is a difference only of 16 feet between the distances of the Light-house from Pertinney .
The ball on the top of the Light-house was the object always observed ; and the Day-Mark being pyramidical , we had the means of making the observations at the different stations to the same point of this building .
Of the Scilly Isles , Menawthen is the nearest to the Land 's End , being about i--9L miles eastward of the Day-Mark ; and the cluster of rocks , called the Bishop and his Clerks , the most remote , being 331 miles west of St. Agnes ' Light-house .
Combining , therefore , the above particulars with those distances , , we may conclude , that the nearest part of the Scilly Isles is about 24,7 miles from the Land 's End , and the farthest nearly 34 .
PART SECOND .
SECTION I. Account of a Trigonometrical Survey carried on in Kent , in the rears 1795 , and 1796 , with the small circular Instrument .
ARTICLE I. Particulars respecting the Instrument .
The instrument used in this survey was announced in the Philosophical Transactions for 1795 , p. 590 .
It was made by Mr. RAMSDEN ; and is about half the size of his large theodolite , or circular instrument , with which we take the horizontal angles , but nearly similar to it in all its parts ; consequently a very brief description will be sufficient .
Th ?
e most material variations in the construction are , i. The levelling or feet screws .
These are below that horizontal movement which serves to direct the lower telescope to any particular object .
By this position of the screws , the horizontal circle being once made level , the whole instrument may be moved round without disturbing its horizontality ; the levelling screws remaining stationary during that operation , which cannot be done in the large instrument , because the screws are carried round with it .
2 .
The diameter of the horizontal circle being only half that of the larger one , it follows , that the space between any two dots on the limb , givesd ouble the number of minutes that are contained in the same space on the greater circle : on this account , each revolution in the micrometer screw in the microscope answers to 2 ' ; and the circle on the microscopic micrometer being divided into 6o parts , each division becomes equal to 2 " , but for the convenience of notation , they are numbered at every 5th , with 1o , 20 , &amp;c. to So , the Goth being marked i , to denote i ' : the number of seconds then , commencing as before , the whole revolution becomes 2 ' .
The revolutions are counted by means of notches on one side of the field in the microscope , in the same manner as in those of the large instrument .
&amp; .
This instrument not being intended for determining the direction of .
the meridian , a vertical semicircle for directing the telescope to the pole star became unnecessary ; , yet some apparatus was required , whereby small elevations or depressions from the horizon might be ascertained with a tolerable degree of precision .
For this purpose , a moveable index , of about four inches long , is made to turn on the horizontal axis of the upper telescope , and so constructed , that by means of a finger screw , it can be fixed firmly in any position .
The lower end of this index is furnished with a steel micrometer screw , having a circle on its head , divided into 1oo parts , for showing the fractional parts of a revolution , while other divisions , on a chamfered edge of the index which marks the fractional parts , give the number of revolutions made by the micrometer screw .
The method of finding the value of a revolution of the micrometer head in parts of a degree , &amp;c. was as follows : A rod , 14 or 16 feet long , was placed horizontally about three quarters of a mile off , and the angle subtended by its ends measured with the instrument in the usual way : the rod was then set up perpendicular at the same place , and the cross wires in the telescope directed to one of its extremities : the telescope was then moved in the vertical plane , by means of the micrometer screw , till the cross wires coincided with the other extremity .
In this manner , by counting the number of revolutions , &amp;c. necessary to move the telescope from one position to the other , an angle was measured vertically with the micrometer screw , equal to the former horizontal angle .
From repeated trials , the value of a revolution was found equal to 1o ' 27 " .
This instrument , on account of its portable size , may very readily be taken to the tops of steeples , towers , &amp;c. and is , therefore , extremely well adapted to the uses for which it was intended .
ART .
II .
Situations of the Stations on which Observations were made with the small circular Instrument , in the Summer of the rear 1795 .
Folkstone Turnpike , the station made use of by General Roy in 1787 .
Hawkinge , about three quarters of a mile from Folkstone Turnpike .
This station was chosen for the purpose of having a view of the Belvidere in Waldershare Park , which cannot be seen from the station of 1787 .
No. Triangles .
Observed Distances of the stations fitom angles .
the intersected objects .
/ den 1 Feet .
13 2 Westwell Down 049 12 12 39106 Boughton Malherb 70 39 8 IIr St ' 23850 Smarden Steeple SECTION III .
Containing the Distances of the Objects intersected in the Survey with the small circular Instrumentfrom the Meridian of Greenwicb , andfrom the Perpendicular to that Meridian .
Also their Latitudes and Longitudes .
ART .
I. Bearings and Distances , i795At Folkstone turnpike , the bearing of the station on Dover Castle in 1787 , from the parallel to the meridian of Greenwich is 65 ' 52 ' 46 " NO ( See Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX , page 603 ) .
The new point on the Keep is 6 feet north-eastward from the old one , which will subtend an angle at Folkstone turnpike of about 38 " ; therefore the new station bears 650 52 ' 8 " NO .
The bearing of the centre of Tenterden Steeple from Allington Knoll , is nearly the same as that of the station in i 787 , or 850 47 ' E " S W. : but the distances of those stations ( Folkstone turnpike and Allington Knoll , see page 232 of the same Volume ) , from the meridian of Greenwich , and its perpendicular , are augmented in the proportion of 141747 to 141753 , for obtaining the distances in the 3d and 4th columns of the following table : Folkstone turnpike being !
74,97 and 137220 ; and Allington Knoll 219935and 144038 feet , respectively , from the meridian , and its perpendicular .
CONCLUSION .
THE account contained in the foregoing pages is .
presented in its present form , agreeable to the resolutionexpressed in our last communication .
It is there stated , or rather implied , that , as materials are collected , details will meet the public eye through the medium of the Philosophical Transactions .
The publishing of these particulars at periods not very remote from each other , will prove convenient , as we shall be enabled to communicate many data , which would be necessarily withheld , were these disclosures less frequent .
It is on this account , that the particulars in Part the First do not contain the latitudes and : lonrgitudes of the stations , and : objects intersected as sufficient data have not yet been obtained for -making the computations in an unexceptionable manner : but the contents of the Second Part are more complete , that Survey having been carried on in a country sufficiently near the meridian of Greenwich to give the necessary arguments with precision .
It is perhaps scarcely necessary to observe , that the design intended to be answered by an admission of the plans of the triangles annexed to this account , isto enable the reader to comprehend withease the state of the operation , and to apply , without difficulty , the materials found in the body-of the work to future Surveys .
We have therefore , not attempted to delineate any varieties of ground in the plan of the western triangles ( Tab. XI .
) : and it may , in this place , be proper to mention , that the ranges of hills expressed in the plan found in our last account , were copied from authorities of the late Major General Roy .
The map now given , of the operations performed in Kent ( Tab. XII .
) , has the ground depicted in as accurate a manner as the scale will admit of , Mr. GARDNER , from the minuteness of this Survey , being enabled to do it with accuracy .
On adverting to a principal object of this undertaking , that of preparing materials for correcting the geography of the country , it may be expected something should be said , respecting the accuracy of the maps of those counties in which our operations have been carried on .
It is almost unnecessary to observe , that great correctness cannot result from the methods commonly taken in large surveys , which are usually made with an apparatus altogether unfit for measuring angles or bases with a sufficient degree of accuracy : and it will evidently appear , on applying the distances given in this , and our former paper , to those maps , that they are , generally , very defective .
We must , however , observe , that LINLEY 's and CROSSLEY ' SMap of Surry , and GARDNER'S Map of Sussex , are the best which have yet fallen under our notice : the first is , in some measure , indebted for its excellence to the Trigonometrical Operation in 1787 ; and the latter to our own ; as the distances between many stations , and the situations of many churches , in the southern , and western parts of Sussex , were given to Mr. GARDNER prior to the publication of our last account .
The geography of Devonshire and Dorsetshire is found particularly erroneous , as may be easily discovered by an application of our distances to the best maps of those counties .
N. B. In Tab. XI .
the triangles connecting the three principal objects in the Scilly Isles , and the stations from whence they were intersected , are laid down in that detached position to shorten the plan .

