1I .
" I A Memoir upon Caustics .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The principal object of this memoir , which contains little or nothing that can be considered new in principle , is to collect together the principal results relating to caustics in plano , the reflecting or refracting curve being a right line or a circle , and to discuss with more care than appears to have been hitherto bestowed upon the subject , some of the more remarkable cases .
The memoir contains in particular researches relating to the caustic by refraction of a circle for parallel rays , the caustic by reflexion of a circle for rays proceeding from a point , and the caustic by refraction of a circle for rays proceeding from a point ; the result in the last case is not worked out , but it is shown how the equation in rectangular coordinates is to be obtained by equating to zero the discrinminant of a rational and integral function of the sixth degree .
The memoir treats also of the secondary caustic or orthogonal trajectory of the reflected or refracted rays in the general case of a reflecting or refracting circle and rays proceeding from a point ; the curve in question , or rather a secondary caustic , is , as is well known , the Oval of Descartes or 'Cartesian : ' the equation is discussed by a method which gives rise to some forms of the curve which appear to have escaped the notice of geometers .
By considering the caustic as the evolute of the secondary caustic , it is shown that the caustic in the general case of a reflecting or refracting circle and rays proceeding from a point is a curve of the sixth class only .
The concluding part of the memoir treats of the curve which , when the incident rays are parallel , must be taken for the secondary caustic in the place of the Cartesian , which , for the particular case in question , passes off to infinity .
In the course of the memoir , the author reproduces a theorem first given , he believes , by himself in the Philosophical Magazine , viz. that there are six different systems of a radiant point and refracting circle which give rise to identically the same caustic .
The memoir is divided into sections , each of which is to a considerable extent intelligible by itself , and the subject of each section is for the most part explained by the introductory paragraph or paragraphs .

