282 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
Immature Ovarian Ovum .
[ Jan ( 3 hyoid cartilage ( or bone ) usually , but not always in direct contact with that structure .
They are placed either between the hyoid carti lage and the hyoglossus muscles , or else immediately to the outer side of the latter , just anterior to the point of their convergence .
The structure is similar to that of other thyroid glands .
The paper is accompanied by eighteen uncoloured and two coloured drawing^ illustrating the subjects described .
II .
" Note to the Paper on the Structure of the Immature Ovarian Ovum in the Common Fowl and in the Rabbit , r By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received November 24 , 1880 .
' Attention was drawn in the above mentioned paper ( " Proc. Roy , 1 Soc. vol. 30 , p. 239 , and fig. 9 ) to certain peculiar bodies ( pseudonuclei ) in the vitellus of some immature ovarian ova of the bird , the origin and interpretation of which were left in doubt .
In a paper by 1 Rauber , * which I had not seen at the time , the bodies in question are specially noticed , and an account of them is given which agrees closely with mine .
I confess , however , I should be slow to acquiesce in the opinion ( which Rauber seems disposed to adopt ) that they are either directly or indirectly products of immigrated white blood-corpuscles .
So far as I can see they appear to be nothing else than condensations !
of vitelline substance .
I would further take this opportunity of mentioning that the convoluted tube delineated in fig. 35 of the paper referred to in the heading of this note is not to be supposed to represent any part of an egg-tube , but the remains of a tubule derived from the Wolffian body. .
It is inserted to show the distinction between the two kinds of tubes which may be met with at the same time in the ovary .
III .
" Note on a Communication made to the Royal Society by Professor Roscoe , LL. D. , F.R.S. , ' On the Absence of Potassium in Protagon prepared by Dr. Gamgee .
' " By J. L. .
W. Thudiohum , M.D. , F.R.C.P. Lond. Communicated by John Simon , C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Y.P.R.S. Received November 25 , 1880 .
With reference to a communication which Professor Roscoe has recently made to the Royal Society on the subject of " Protagon " * A. Rauber , " Ueber den TTrsprung der Milch und die Emahrung der Frucht im Allgemeinen .
" Leipzig , 1879 .

