Philos = Transact = No = 249 fig 4 fig =1 Fell .
Coll. Phys. and R. S. IX .
An Account of two Books , 1 Museo di Fisica &amp; di Esperienze , &amp;c. by Signior Boccone .
2 .
Paradisus Batavus , continens plus centum plantas , &amp;c. with additional Remarks by Mr. John Ray , F.R. S. X. Books lately Printed beyond Sea .
I. An Extract of a Letter from Leghorn to Dr. Martin Lister , November 24 .
1698 .
concerning Seignior Redi 's Manuscripts , and the Generation of Fleas FOR any thing that Redi hath left behind him in Manuscript , although I have enquired of a young Physician his Domestic , yet nothing appears : and that second part of Animali Dentro gli animali we are like to be without .
We have an ingenious Naturalist here , whose Observations about the Generation of Fleas , I send you , and are as follows .
A New Discovery of , the Original of Fleas , made by the Signior D'iacinto Cestone of Leghorn .
AT last is discovered , by the indefatigable Industry of Signior D'iacinto Cestone , the true way of the Generation of Fleas , their Worms , and entire Metamorphoses which have been hitherto obscure , though sought after .
The Fleas bring forth Eggs ( or a sort of Nitts ) from these Eggs are hatched Worms ; these Worms make to themselves Bags like SilkWorms , and from out of these Bags come Fleas .
Fleas therefore deposit their Eggs on Dogs , Cats , Men or other Animals infested with them , or in the Places where they sleep , which for being round , smooth , slip ordinarily straight to the Ground , or fix themselves in the Plies or other Inequalities of the Coverlets and Cloaths From these are brought forth white Worms , of a shining Pearl Colour , which feed themselves on the Brann like Substance which sticks in the Combs when Puppies are combed to take out the Fleas ; or with certain Downy Substance that is found in the Plies of Linen Drawers , or other such like Excrement .
They come in a Fortnight to the Bigness of Fig. 5 .
and are very lively and active , and if they have any Fear , or if they be touched , they suddenly roll themselves up , and make as it were a Ball .
A little after they come to creep after the manner of the Silk-Worms that have no Legs , with a brisk and very swift Motion .
When they are come to their usual Bigness they hide themselves the most they can , and bringing out of their Mouths the Silk , they make round themselves a small Bag , white within as Paper , but withont always dirty and fouled with Dust .
The Bags are to the Natural Eye of the Bigness of Fig. 6 .
without magnifying .
In other Two Weeks in the Summer-time , the Flea is perfectly formed , withoutthat the Worm quits its Exuviae in its Bag , as do the Silk worms , and as do all Caterpillars ; which leave in the same their Exuviae .
The Flea , so long as it is enclosed in the Bag , is Milk white , although it has its Legs , but Two Days before it comes out , it becomes coloured , grows hard , and gets Strength , so that coming speedily out , it straight leaps away .
Hereunto annexed are the Figures of the Eggs , Fig. 1 .
the Worm Fig. 2 .
the Bag Fig. 3 .
and the Flea Fig. 4 .
but all of them magnified by the Microscope .

