II .
A Discourse occasioned by an Inscription found , about Three Years ago , at Langchester in the Bishopric of Durham , and communicated to the Royal Society from Dr. Hunter by Dr. Woodward , as it is printed in the Philosophical Transactions , No 354 .
By Roger Gale , Esq ; R. S. S. DR. Hunter , who communicated this Inscription , having only given us his Conjectures as to the first fortifying the Place where it was found , and the Time of its Repair after it had been destroyed , but said nothing relating to the Explanation of the Inscription itself , tho ' extremely curious ; it will not , I hope , be taken amiss , if I offer some Thoughts that occurred to me at first sight of it , and afterwards induced me to put together what follows upon that Subject .
I shall not in the least dispute or call in question the Time of its Foundation , as fixed by the Doctor , but begin with the Place where it was discovered , namely Langchester or Lancaster , in the Bishopric of Durham , which I am , 1 with him , fully persuaded was the Longovicus , where the Notitia Imperii places the 2 Numerus Longovicariorum .
This place is seated upon a great Military Way , about 12 Miles distance from Binchester , and 7 from Ebchester , the one the Vinovia , and the other the Vindomora of Antoninus , as the Correspondence of the Numbers may evince ; Binchester being 19 Roman Miles from Ebchester , as that is 9 from Corbridge , the exact Numbers the Itinerary gives us between Vinovia , Vindomora , and Corstopitum .
What is very strange is , that the Itinerary , which must go upon the great Road directly thro ' this ~Nnnnnn Town 1 Philosoph. Trans. No 266 .
p. 657 .
2 Not .
Imp .
fol. 176 .
Town of Longovicus betwixt Vindomora and Vinovia , takes not the least Notice of it , but measuresth e Way at the whole Length and Number of Miles , from the first to the latter of those Stations if Longovicu was founded , as Dr. Hunter supposes 3 , so early as the Time of Julius Agricola , and if that ltinerary was composed by any of the Emperors that bore he Name of Antoninus , this Station might have been destroy d or deserted during the Wars with the Britains and not being repaird till the Reign of Gordian ~ .
was passed over by the Author of the unerary~ as a Camp not then in being~ or ~ no use to the Roman Armies ; and this would be no weak Argument for the Antiquity of that Work : And perhaps some Parts of it may have been described as early as the Reigns of those Emperors , or earlier , and such Names of more modern places as are found in it , may have been afterwards added as Occasion requird .
As a farther Confirmation of this Conjecture , I beg leave to observe , that this place , after it was repair d by Gordian , subsisted even to the Ruin of the Roman Empire in Britain , as is evident by the Mention of it in the Notitia Imperii ; so that had this 4 Journey which carries us from Vindomora to Vinovia been compose d after the Reign of Gordian , it would be very hard to account for the Omission of this remarkable Station and Town , as it appears to have been from this , and many other Inscriptions found there~ Having this Opportunity of doing it I am unwilling to let it slip without rectifying a Mistake in the ~ towards the Recovery of the Roman Highways thro Britain , printed in the 6th Volume of Mr. Hearne 's Itinerary of Leland 5 , which having brought the Ermingstreet ( not the Watlingstreet , as Dr Hunter and the Country call it ) a little beyond Cattarick in Yorkshire , divides it there into two Branches , Ph. Trans. No 354.p.702 .
4 Iter .
I. a Limit Praetor .
usq ; 5 P.111,114 .
Branches , tracing one of them to Tinmouth , and the other to ~ but omits the main Stemm of it , that runs almost directly Northward to Piercebridge .
so to Denton , Houghton , Binchester , Langchester , Ebchester , Corbridge , and through the Heart of Northumberland into Scotland , about a Mile and a half to the West of Berwick .
It is in several places very entire and fair , especially between Cor~ bridge and Binchester , the Ridge of it there being for the most part two Yards in Height above the Level of the Soil , no less than Eight Yards broad , and all paved with Stones , that are as even as if new laid : as I am informed by the ingenious Mr. Warburton , who has often viewed it , and to whom we are obliged for the most accurate and useful Map of the County of Northumberland that was ever yet published .
This Digression , if it may be so called , I hope will be excused , since it not only sets right an Error , but acquaints you with a noble Roman Way , scarcely yet known or observed by any body .
Having fixed the Seat of this Longovicus , where the Inscription was found , let us consider next what sort of a Place it was ; and upon due Enquiry it will appear to have been one of the most ancient and eminent Stations the Romans were ~ of in these Parts .
As to its Antiquity , Dr. Hunter has made it probable , that we ought to look for it as high as Julius Agricola 's commanding under Domitian , in this Island : As to its Eminency , the Inscription that came last from him to the Society as well as several others found there , is an undeniable Evidence of its being a Place of great Consideration ; but nothing can put that more out of Dispute than the first which was some Years ago transmitted by the same Hand 6 , which therefore I beg leave to insert here with that which came last from him , and the rather because little or nothing has ever been said upon it , and that they will give great Light one to the other .
Nnnnnn2 IMP 6 Phil. Trans. No 266 .
Philosoph : TransactNo.357 .
I. Page 826 I~.C~S.M.~T.GORDIA NVS .
P.F.~G.BAL~VM .
CVM BASILICA .
A LO .
INSTRVXIT PREGNLVCILANVM .
LEG.~G PR .
PR.CVRNTE .
M.AVR QVIRINOPRECOHILGR II .
IMPC~SAR .
M.ANTONIVS GORDIANVS .
P.F.AVG .
PRINCIPIA .
ET.ARMA~N TARIA .
CONLAPSA .
RESTITV IT .
PER.~ECILIVM .
FVSCVM .
LEG AVG .
PR.PR .
CVRANTE .
M.AVR QVIRINO .
PR.COH .
I.L.GOR .
The Stone whereon the first is cut has been broke in two , whereby some of the Letters are defaced , however , it may be very well read as follows ; the Letters PRE in the fourth Line I take to be a Mistake of the Workman , having seen several Copies , where they are so transcribed ; that they should be PER is evident from the fifth Line of the second Inscription .
I. Imperator Caesar Marcus Antonius Gordianus Pius Felix Augustus Balneum cum Basilica a solo instruxit Per Cneium Lucilianum Legatum Augustalem Propraetorem Curante Marco Aurelio Quirino Praefecto cohortis primae Longovicariorum ; or rather , Legionis Gordianae .
The second can be read only after the following manner .
II .
Imperator Caesar Marcus Antonius Gordianus Pius Felix Augustus Principia &amp; Armamentaria Conlapsa restituit Per Maecilium Fuscum Legatum Augustalem Propraetorem curante Marco Aurelio Quirino Praefecto Cohortis primae Legionis Gordianae .
From these Two Inscriptions compared together , it will be apparent that they were not only erected under the same Emperor , but by the Care of the very same Person Aurelius Quirinus , tho ' not in the same Year .
The Emperor can be no other than Gordianus the youngest , or third of that Name ; the two former having been slain so very soon after they had assumed the Purple , that it is improbable they should have given ven any Orders or Commands for the erecting of new , and repairing of ancient Buildings , in so remote a Province as Britain was from Africa , where they were murdered after a short joint Reign of scarce seven Weeks .
Dr. Hunter tells us , that that which was first discovered ( and which I shall therefore always distinguish by the Name of the first ) was dug up about a Hundred Yards East from a great Square , which had been fortified with a thick , strong Wall , faced with hewen Stone , within which , and without , especially towards the East , are nothing but ruinous Heaps of Stone , and thinks the Lodging of the Garrison only to have been included within those Walls .
His Conjecture is very much confirmed by the 2 Account he gives us of the finding the last Inscription within that square Enclosure ; so that there seems to have been at this Longovicus a large Town , and one of those Camps called Castra stativa , where the Legions lay in Quarters during the time of Peace and Quiet .
The first Inscription tells us , that the Emperor Gordian built the Balneum and Basilica from the Ground , a Solo ; whereas , by the second he appears to have been only the Repairer of the Principia and Armamentaria .
Perhaps therefore here might be no Town , till the Romans thought fit to repair their old deserted Camp at this Place , and then the Emperor might also build the Bath and Palace for the Residence of the Proprietor , when in these Parts of Britain ; the Word Basilica importing both a Palace , and an Edifice for hearing of Causes , and transacting all public Affairs .
As this eminent Building was erected by the Emperor 's Command , it is an undeniable Argument of the Splendor of this Town , as are the great Heaps of Rubbish , and Ruins , where this 1 ~ .
Trans. No 266 .
p. 658 .
2 Phil. Trans. No 354 .
this Inscription was found , of its Largeness and Extent The second equally puts the being of tho Castrum stativum out of dispute , when it acquaints us with the Rebuilding of the Armamentaria and Principia there , that is the Arcenal and Quarters either of the Legionary Soldier , that were called the Principes , or the place where the Eagles and other military Ensigns were kept .
It is probable they did not belong to one particular Legion , but to several , as they had occasion to be employed here ; 1 tho the Legio sexta Victrix seems to have the best Title to them , as being constantly quartered in the North ; whereas , the 2 Legto Secunda , and 3 Vicesima were generally garrisoned , the first at Caerleon in Wales and Richhurrow in Kent .
and the other at and about Chester ; so that the 4 Monuments they have left in the North were erected by them , when the Wars , and other Works , as particularly the Wall~ carried cross the Island , call d them thither ; which being finished , they returned home to their more Southern Quarters , and continu d in them till commanded Abroad upon new Services .
I will not pretend to determine when these Armamentaria and Principia first fell to ruin ; perhaps it might be when Hadrian , Lollius Urbicus and Severus had carried their Conquests farther into the Enemy 's Country , and having built those famous Wall~ , the Relicks of which we still see in the Shire of Sterling in Scotland , and in Northamberland and Cumbe land in England , that this Camp might be thought useless , the Roman Forces being drawn nearer to , and quartered upon the Frontiers ; and so this Fortress abandoned and suffer d to fall into decay , as the Word connpsa implies : and not that it was 1 Ptol .
Leg .
VI .
Niceph .
Ebor locat .
2 Anton .
Itin .
XII .
Not Imp .
p. 161 .
3 Anton .
Itin .
II .
4 Camd .
p. 835 , 920 .
Phil. Trans. No 269 was destroyed by any Fire , War , or other Enemy than Age and Neglect .
Tho ' the Word connpsa is wrote here with an N , there can be no doubt but the Pronunciation of it was as we usually find it spelt , collapsa ; a certain Argument of the Letter N 's being silent in the middle of a Word , before two Consonants , especially NS , and NT , when the T was pronounced like an S. To omit what 1 Quintilian says to this purpose , it is confirmed by the Absence of that Letter in numberless Inscriptions in Gruter , Reinesius , &amp;c. and no wonder , since the Workmen in those Days , as well as ours , usually wrote as they spoke their Words .
I shall not trouble you with Quotations of any of them to this end , but as a Proof of what I say , only assure you from ocular Inspection and a most accurate Examination , that there is no transverse Line over the Letters ~ belonging to the Word ~ in the Inscription of IVL .
VITALI at Bath , whatever has been affirmed to the contrary , but that the Letter N is totaly omitted there .
You will also pardon my Endeavours , before I leave this Subject , to explain a short Inscription belonging to some of our Countrymen , tho ' found at Amerbach in Germany 2 , since it will be a new Proof of the foregoing Assertion .
III .
NYMPHIS~ Nymphis .
N~ BRITTON Numerus Brittonum TRIPVTIEN Triputiensis , or enus SUB CVRA ~ Sub cura M~ VLPI Marci Ulpii MALCHI~ mALCHI ~ LEG XXII Centurionis Leg .
22 .
PR ~P~F~ Primigeniae , Piae , Felicis .
There 1 Quintil .
Instit .
Lib. I. c. ~2 Gruter .
p. ~ .
There is no Difficulty but in the Word TRIPVTIEN , and that will presently vanish if you insert the Letter N , and read it TRIPVNT , i. e. Tripontienus or Tripontiensis , the Mutation of the O and V being so frequent , that no body is ignorant of it .
This will bring you to Tripontium 1 or Dowbridge in Northamptonshire ; tho ' that excellent Antiquary Dr. Battely 2 , in his Antiquitates Rutupinae , would read it RIPVTIEN , and fixed the Place whence this Numerus took its Appellation at Richburrow in Kent .
But to return where we left the Camp at Longovicus , it will be as difficult to assign a Reason for its being repaired , as it was for its being deserted ; unless that the Propraetors might judge it advisable about the Time of Gordian III .
to fix their Residence there and consequently refortify the old Camp for their State and Security .
And that it was not refortify 'd upon any sudden Emergency , but for Time and Duration , is evident both from the strong Stone-Works that encompassed it , and a Body of Forces lying here , even at the Expiration of the Roman Empire and Authority in this Island , which from its Continuance in the same Station , had got the Name of the Longovicarii 3 .
The Person that under the Emperor gave Direction for these Repairs , was Maecilius Fuscus : As Maecilius is a Diminutive of Maecius , it is not unlikely that he was the Son of Maecius Fuscus , who was Consul with Turpilius Dexter , A. D. 225~ in the Reign of Alexander Severus : By this Inscription it appears that this Maecilius was the Emperor Gordian 's Lieutenant here and Proprietor ; For tho ' in Phil. Transact. No 354 , by the Inadvertence of the Engraver , we read only PR .
instead of PR .
PR ; it is right in the Original , and in the TranO ooooo script ~ Antonin .
Itin , VI .
~ p. 21~ ~ Notit .
Imp .
fol. 176 .
b. script sent up by Dr. Hunter , and accordingly in page .
826 .
the Fault is amended .
And as the Name of Fuscus stands in the same Place in the second as that of Lucilianus does in the first , and with the same Adjuncts both before and after , we may fairly conclude he was either his Predecessor or Successor , but which , it is impossible to determine .
And here , perhaps , it may not be amiss to remark , we never meet with a Legatus Augustalis in any Inscription in this Island , without the joint Title of Proprietor ; and 1 Tacitus himself either makes them the same Office , or at least unites them in the same Person , when he tells us , In Britania P. Ostorium Propraelorem turbidae res excepere ; and having presently after related the manner of the Fight with the Iceni , stiles him Legatus , Qua pugna filius Legati , M. Ostorius , servati civis decus meruit 2 ; and a little after he gives both the same Titles to A. Didius the Successor of Ostorius .
We are indebted therefore to these two Monuments , not only for the Account they have preserved of the Roman Arms and Magnificence at Longovicus , but for the indisputable Records of the Names of two Legates and Propraetors of Britain , that would otherwise have been buried in Oblivion , viz. Cneius Lucilianus and Macilius Fuscus : For from Virius Lupus ( who was Proprietor and Legate here about the Year 208 , under Severus , and just before that Emperor 's coming into this Island repaired a Bath burnt down at Lavatrae , or Bows 3 , in Yorkshire ) we have no where extant the Name of one of those Officers , till we come to Nonnius Philippus , whom I take to have succeeded the last of these ; the 4 Stone which was found at Old Carliste in 1 Tac .
Lib. Ann. XII .
c. 32 .
2 Ibid. c. 39 .
3 Camd .
p 762 , Edit .
1695 .
4 Camd .
Britan .
p. 830 .
in Cumberland , and has preserved his Memory , setting forth that he was Legate and Proprietor when Atticus and Praetextatus were Consuls , which was A. D 242 .
the very Year that our Gordian went upon his Perstan Expedition , from which he never returned .
And as that Emperor left Nonnius Philippus in that Post , when he marched into the East , where he was murdered about two Years after , it is highly probable that he was the last Proprietor of his appointing , and consequently , that Maecilius Fuscus was his Predecessor , and the Repairs begun at Longovicus before the Year 243 1 .
I would not have troubled you with this Inscription , but that it is faultily transcribed in Camden , and that I shall have occasion by and-by to refer to it again , upon a material Point , which therefore I hope will plead my Pardon .
IV .
I. O. M. PRO .
SALVTF .
IMPERATORIS M. ANTONI .
GORDIANI .
P. F. INVICTI .
AVG .
ET .
SABINAE .
FVR IE .
TRANQVILE .
CONIVGI .
EIVS .
TO TAQVE .
DOMV .
DIVIN .
EORVM .
A LA .
AVG .
GORDIA .
OB VIRTVTEM APPELLAT .
POSVIT .
CVI .
PRAEEST AIMILIVS .
CRISPINVS .
PREF EQQ .
NATVS .
IN .
PRO .
AFRICA DE TVSDRO .
SUB .
CVR .
NONNII .
PHI LIPPI .
LEG .
AVG .
PROPRETO .
ATTICO .
ET .
PRETEXTATO COSS .
Oooooo2 The ~ Philos. Transact. N~ 354 .
p. 702 .
The Person who had the Care of these Repairs both in Town and Camp , was Marcus Aurelius Quirinus , Praefect or Commander of a Company of Foot ; another Argument for the ~ Lucilianus and Fuscus succeeding immediately one the other , he serving in the same Post under both .
I must observe however , that altho ' the two first Inscriptions have been cut very near the same time , and by the same Hand , as appears by the Form of the Letters , and Manner of the Abbreviations in each of them , yet the Office that this Quirinus bore is something disferently expressed in the first from what it is in the second , if they have been accurately transcribed ; the First showing , after QVIRINO the Letters PRE .
CoH .
I. LG .
R , which , besore I had seen the Latter , I was induced to read Praefecto Cohortis primae Longovicariorum , the ~ Notitia Imperii placing the Praefectus numeri Longovicariorum Longovico .
That Numerus and Cohors were the same thing , 2 Pancirollus , in his Notes upon that Book , quotes St. Chrysostome to prove , and some others , Cohors erat qui vocatur Numerus ; but I rather take it to be an indefinite Number of Men , which might comprise several Companies , independent of any Legion .
3 Vegetius , speaking of the Legati Imperatoris , says , in quorum locum nunc illustres viros constat Magistros Militum substitutos , a quibus non tantum binae Legiones , sed plures Numeri gubernantur ; by which it is plain .
the Numeri were no Legionary Cohorts .
Neither was the Name so modern as from the Notitia Imperii and Chrysostome it might appear to be ; for we meet with a4 Numerus Britonum upon an Altar found in Transylvania , dedicated to the Nymphs , when the Emperor Commodus and Glabrio were Consuls , A. D. 186 .
And 5 another Numerus upon an Altar erected to Hercules for the Prosperity of ~ fol. 166 .
b~ fol.161~ b~ Lib. II .
c.9 .
~ Gruter .
p.94 .
2 .
~.46.9 .
of Septimius Severus , when Lateranus and Rufinus were Consuls , A. D. 197 .
But after I had reviewed the Letters at the end of the second Inscription , which are plainly transcribed PR .
CoH .
I. L. GOR .
I could read them no otherwise than Praefecto Cohortis primae Legionis Gordianae .
Gordian III .
was so beloved of the Soldiery , that several Legions complimented him by honouring themselves with his Name , as the 1 Legio tertia Italica , which took the Addition of Gordiana ; and the 2 Legio decima gemina , and 3 Decima tertia gemina did both give themselves the same Appellation .
But which of the Legions quartered in this Island so stiled itself is not determined by this Inscription or any other that I know of .
However , as the Legio sexta Victrix was all along quartered in the Northern parts of this Kingdom ( as I observed before ) where these Inscriptions were erected , I make no doubt but it was that which called it self Gordiana , tho ' the numeral Distinction of VI is omitted , only perhaps for want of Room on the Stone .
We find by several Inscriptions in Camden , that there was an Ala in those Parts which prided it self upon its Valour , and was therefore called the Ala Augusta ; of the many Memorials it has left us of its Title , I shall only mention 4 one found at Old Carlisle , and which is the ancientest of them all , by any certainty of Date .
I. O. M. AL .
AVG .
OB ... RTVT .
APPEL .
CVI PRAEEST .
TIB .
CL .
TIB .
F. P. LING. .
N IVSTINVS .
PRAEF .
FVSCIANO .
II .
SILANO .
II .
COS. that 1 Vels .
Monum .
Augustae Vindel .
p. 431 .
2 Grut .
p. 80 .
3 Gruter .
p. 433 .
1 .
4 Camd .
p. 827 .
that is , Jovi Optimo Maximo , Ala Augusta ob Virtutem appellata , cui praeest Tiberius Claudius Tiberii filius , provincia Lingonensi , Justinus praefectus , Fusciano secundo , Silano secundo Consulibus .
This Altar was dedicated when Fuscianus and Silanus were the second time Consuls , that is , in the Year 188 .
under the Reign of Commodus , and Fifty Years before our Gordian came to the Empire .
At the same place was also discovered the Fourth Inscription by me quoted , where we find this same Ala Augusta stiling itself also Gordiana ; from whence I think it is not a little probable that the Legion to which this Wing appertained was the Legio Gordiana mentioned in the Inscriptions found at Langchester ; and that Legion to have been the Legio sexta Victrix , from the long Continuation of this Ala Augusta in these Northern parts of the Nation , the constant Quarters of that Legion .
July 10 .
1718 .

