IV .
On the FormatiOn of the Bark of Trees .
In a Letter from T. A. Knight , Esq. F. R. S. to the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks , K. B. P. R. S. &amp;c. Read February 19 , 1807 .
MY DEAR SIR , AN extraordinary diversity of opinion appears to have prevailed among naturalists , respecting the production and sub , sequent state of the bark of trees .
According to the theory of MALPIGHI , the cortical substance , which is annually generated , derives its origin from the older bark ; and the interior part of this new substance is annually transmuted into alburnum , or sap wood ; whilst the exterior part , becoming dry and lifeless , forms the exterior covering , or cortex .
The opinions of GREW do not appear to differ much from those of MALPIGHI ; but he conceives the interior bark to consist of two distinct substances , one of which becomes alburnum , whilst the other remains in the state of bark : he , however , supposes the insertments in the wood , the " utriculi " of MALPIGHI , and the " ( tissu cellulaire " of Du HAMEL , to have originally existed in the bark .
HALES on the contrary contends , that the bark derives its existence from the alburnum , and that it does not undergo any subsequent transformation .
The discoveries of Du HAMEL have thrown much light on the subject ; but his experiments do not afford any conclusive result , and some of them may be adduced in support of either of the preceding hypotheses : and a modern writer ( MIRBEL* ) has endeavoured to combine and reconcile , in some degree , the apparently discordant theories of MALPIGHI and HALES .
He contends with HALES , that the alburnum gives existence to the new layer of bark ; but that this bark subsequently changes into alburnum , though not precisely in the manner described by MALPIGI-I .
So much difference of opinion , amongst men so capable of observing , sufficiently evinces the difficulty of the subject they endeavoured-to investigate : and in a course of experiments , which has occupied more than twenty years , I have scarcely felt myself prepared , till the present time , even to give an opinion respecting the manner , in which the cortical substance is generated in the ordinary course of its growth ; or reproduced , when that , which previously existed , has been taken off .
Du HAMEL has shown , that the bark of 'some species of trees is readily reproduced , when the decorticated surface'of the alburnum is secluded from the air ; and I have repeated similar experiments on the apple , the ' sycamore , and other trees , with the same 'result ; I have also often observed a similar reproduction of bark on the surface of the alburnum of the Wych elm ( Ulmus montana ) in ' shady situations , when no covering whatever was applied .
A glareous fluid , as Du HAMEL has stated , exudes from the surface of the alburnum : this fluid appears to change into a pulpous unorganised mass , which subsequently becomes organised and cellular ; and the : Traite d'Anatomie et de Physiologie vegetales o matter , which enters into the composition of this cellular substance , is evidently derived from the alburnum .
These facts are therefore extremely favourable to the theory of HALES ; but other facts may be adduced which are scarcely consistent with that theory .
The internal suface of pieces of bark , when detached from contact with the alburnum , provided they remain united to the tree at their upper ends , much more readily generate a new bark , than the alburnum does under similar circumstances : a similar fluid exudes from the surfaces of both , and the same phenomena are observable in both cases .
The cellular substance , however , which is thus generated , though it presents every external appearance of a perfect bark , is internally very imperfectly organized ; and the vessels which contain the true sap in the bark , are still wanting ; and I have found , that these may be made , by appropriate management , to traverse the new cellular substance in almost any direction .
When I cut off all communication above , and on one side , between the old bark and that substance , I observed , that the vessels proceeded across it , from the old bark on the other side , taking always in a greater or less degree an inclination downwards ; and when the cellular substance remained united to the bark at its upper end only , the vessels descended nearly perpendicularly down it ; but they did not readily ascend into it , when it was connected with the bark at its lower extremity only ; the result of similar experiments , when made on different species of trees , was , however , subject to some variations .
Pieces of bark of the walnut-tree , which were two inches broad , and four long , having been detached from contact with the alburnum , -except at their upper ends , and covered with a plaister composed of bees-wax and turpentine , in some instancesand : with clay only in others , readily generated the cellular substance of a new bark ; and between that and the old detached bark , very nearly as much alburnum was deposited as in other parts of the tree , where the : bark , retained its natura , lposition ; which , I think , affords very decisive evidence pf the descent of the sap through the bark .
Similar pieces of bark , under the same mode of treatment , but united to the tree .
at their lower ends only , did not long remain alive , except at their lower extremities ; and there a verylittle alburnum only was generated .
Other pieces of bark of the same dimensions , which were laterally united to the tree , continued alive almost to their extremities ; and a considerable portion of alburnum was generated , particularly near their lower edges ; the sap appearing in its passage across the bark I to have been given a considerable inclination downwards : probably owing to an arrangement in the organization of the bark , that .
: I have noticed in a former memoir , * which : renders it better calculated to transmit the sap towards the roots than in any other direction.t I have in very few instances been able to make the walnuttree reproduce its bark from the alburnum , though under the sam , I m management .
I.rarely failed to succeed with the sycamore and apple-tree .
Pieces of the bark of the apple-tree will also , live , and:generate:a .
small portion of alburnum , though:on !
lie .
, attached to the tree at their lower extremities ; " Philsophical Transactions of 8o4 .
1o6 probably owing to a small part of the true sap being carried upwards by capillary attraction , when the proper action of the cortical vessels is necessarily suspended .
The preceding experiments , and the:authority of Du HAMEL , having perfectly satisfied me , that both the alburnum and bark of trees are capable of generating a new bark , or at least of transmitting-a fluid capable of generating a cellular substance , to which the bark in its more ' perfectly 'organized state ' owes its existence , my attention was directed to discover the sources from which this fluid is derived .
Both the bark and the alburnum of trees are composed principally of two substances ; :one of which consists of long tubes , and the other is cellular ; and the cellular substance of the barkl is ; iii contact with the similar substance in the alburnum , and through these I have long suspected the true sap to pass from the vessels of the bark to those of the alburnum.* The intricate mixture of the cellular and vascular substances long baffled my endeavours to discover from which of them , in the preceding cases , the sap , and consequently the new bark , proceeded ; but I was ultimately successful .
The cellular substance , both in the alburnum and bi'rk of old pollard oaks , often exists in masses of near a line in width , and this organization was peculiarly favourable Xt6 my purpose .
I therefore repeated ' on the trunks of trees of this kind , experiments similar to -those ?
above mentioned Which were made on the walnut-tree .
Apparently owing to the small quantity of sap , which the old pollard trees contained , their bark was very imperfectly reproduced ; but I observed a fluid to ouze from the cellular substance , both of the bark and alburnum ; and on the surface of these substances alone , in many instances , the new bark was reproduced in small detached pieces .
I have endeavoured to prove in former communications , * that the true sap of trees acquires those properties which distinguish it from the fluid recently absorbed , by circulating through the leaf ; and that it descends down the bark , where part of it is employed in generating the new substances annually added to the tree ; and that the remainder , not thus expended , passes into the alburnum , and there joins the ascending 'current of sap .
The cellular substance , both of the bark and alburnum , has been proved , in the preceding experiments , to be capable of affording the sap a passage through it ; and therefore it appears not very improbable , that it executes an office similar to that of the anastomosing vessels of the animal economy , when the cellular surfaces of the bark and alburnum are in contact with each other ; and , when detached , it may be inferred , that the passing fluid will exude from both surfaces : because almost all the vessels of trees appear to be capable of an inverted action in giving motion to the fluids which they carry .
As the power of generating a new bark appeared in the preceding cases to exist alike in the sap of the bark and of the alburnum , I was anxious to discover how far the fluid , which ascends through the central vessels of the succulent annual shoot , is endued with similar powers .
Having therefore made two circular incisions through the bark , round the stems of several annual shoots of the vine , as early in the summer as the alburnum within them had acquired sufficient og maturity to perform its office of carrying up the sap , I took off the bark between these incisions ; and I abraded the surface of the alburnum to prevent a reproduction of it .
The alburnum in the decorticated spaces soon became externally dry and lifeless ; and several incisions were then made longitudinally through it .
The incisions commenced a little above , and extended below the decorticated spaces , so that , if the sap of the central vessels generated a cellular substance ( as I concluded it would ) , that substance might come into contact and form a union with the substance of the same kind emitted by the bark above and below .
The experiment succeeded perfectly , and the cellular substances generated by the central vessels , and the bark , soon united , and a perfect vascular bark was subsequently formed beneath the alburnum , and appeared perfectly to execute the office of that which had been taken off ; the medulla appeared to be wholly inactive .
I have already observed , that the vessels , which were generated in the cellular substance on the surface of the alburnum of the sycamore and the apple-tree , traversed that substance in almost every direction ; and the same thing appears to occur beneath the old bark , when united to the alburnum .
For having attentively examined through every part of the spring and summer , the formation of the internal bark , and alburnous layer beneath it , round the bases of regenerated buds , which I had made to spring from smooth spaces on the roots and stems of trees , I found every appearance perfectly consistent with the preceding observations .
A single shoot only was suffered to spring from each root and stem , and from the base of this , in every instance the cortical vessels dispersed themselves in different directions .
Some descended perpendicularly downwards , whilst others diverged on each side , round the alburnum , with more or less inclination down-wards4 and met on the opposite side of it .
The same pulpous and cellular substance appeared to cover the surfaces of the bark and alburnum , when in contact with each other , as wheti detached , ; and through this substance the ramifications of the vessels : of the new bark extended themselves , appearing to receive their direction-from the fluid sap which descended from thebark of the young shoots , and not to be , in any degree , influenced in their course by:the direction taken by the cortical and alburnous vessels of the preceding year .
-Whenever the vessels of the bark , which proceeded from.different points , met each other , an interwoven texture was produced , and the alburnum beneath acquired a similar organisation:- : and the same thing occurs , and is productive of very important effects , in the ordinary course of the growth of trees .
- , The bark of the principal stem , and of every lateral branch , contains very numerous vessels , which are charged with , the descending:true sap ; and at the juncture of the lateral branch with the stem , these vessels meet each other .
A kind of pedestal of aiburnum , the texture of which is much interwoven , is in consequence formed round the base of the lateral branch ; which thus becomes firmly united to the tree .
This pedestal , though apparently a partof the branch , derives a large portion of , the matter , annually added to it , from the cortical-vessels of the principal stem ; and thence , in the event of theof thdethof the 'Iteral branch , it always continues to live .
But it not unfrequently happens , that a lateral bran , h forms a very acute angle with the principal stem , and , in this case , 110 x the bark between them becomes compressed and inactive ; no pedestal is in consequence formed , and the attachment of such a branch to the stem becomes extremely feeble and insecure.* Instead of the reproduced budsi : of the preceding experiment , buds were inserted In the foregoing summer , or attached by grafting in the spring ; and , when these succeeded , though they were in many instances taken from trees of different species , and even of different genera , no sensible difference existed in the vessels , which appeared to diverge into the bark of the stock , from these buds-and from those reproduced in the preceding experiments .
It appears , therefore , probable , that a pulpous organisable mass first derives its matter either from the bark , or the alburnum ; and that this matter subsequently forms the new layer of bark ; for , if the vessels had proceeded , as radicles , t from the inserted buds , or grafts , such vessels would have been , in some degree , different from the natural vessels of the bark of the stocks ; and it does not appear probable , even without referring to the preceding facts , that vessels should be extended , in a few days , by parts successively added to their extremities , from the leaves to the extremities of the roots ; which are , in many instances , more than two hundred feet distant from each other .
I am , therefore , inclined to believe , that , as the preceding facts seem to indicate , the matter , which composes the new bark , acquires an organisation calculated to transmit the true sap towards the roots , as that fluid progressively descends from the leaves in the spring ; but whether the matter , which enters into the composition of the new bark , be derived from the bark or the alburnum , in the ordinary course of the growth of the tree , it will be extremely difficult to ascertain .
It is , however , no difficult task to prove , that the bark does not , in all cases , spring from the alburnum ; for many cases may be adduced in which it is always generated previously to the existence of the alburnum beneath it : but none , I believe , in which the external surface of the alburnum exists previously to the bark in contact with it , except when the cortical substance has been taken off , as in the preceding experiments .
In the radicle of germinating seeds , the cortical vessels elongate , and new portions of bark are successively added to their points , many days before any alburnous substance is generated in them ; and in the succulent annual shoot the formation of the bark long precedes that of the alburnum .
In the radicle the sap appears also evidently to descend* through the cortical vessels , t and in the succulent annual shoot it as evidently passes up through the central vessels , * which surround the medulla .
In both cases a cellular substance , similar to that which was generated in the preceding experiments , is first formed , and this cellular substance in the same manner subsequently becomes vascular ; whence it appears , that the true sap , or blood of the plant , produces similar effects , and passes through similar stages of organisation , when it flows from different sources , and that the power of generating a new bark , properly speaking , belongs neither to the bark nor alburnum , but to a fluid , which pervades alike the vessels of both .
I shall , therefore , not attempt to decide on the merits of the theory of MALPIGHI , or of HALES , respecting the reproduction of the interior bark ; : but I cannot by any means admit the hypothesis of MALPIGHI and other naturalists , relative to the transmutation of bark into alburnum ; and I propose to state my reasons for rejecting that hypothesis , in the next communication I have the honour to address to you .
I am , my dear Sir , Your much obliged obedient Servant , T. A , KNIGHT .
Elton , Dec. 18 , i8o6 .

