]\gt ; .
W. Spens .
ressure the [ Jan. 3 , the layer affects the position of the Principal Incidence also tiuences timnth .
6 .
, consequently , deductiun the optical constants of a metal observation of the Incideucc alltlAz imuth alone is liable t , o considerable error .
the case of steel llethod leads to ( see p. , the vidcr yields and That foul are required to desclil ) the optical properties of it lnetallic refleotor , two of them the nature of the layer of transition .
That wtants a actory aeement exists etween theory and intensity of the reflected difference of rised perpendiculad parallel to plane of incidence .
the in idge . .
C. D. hetham , omber 1 , 1905 ; ecve in evised , \mdash ; Rend , 1906 .
) 1 .
The relation between the .
pressure the osmotic pressure of solution is investigated by he equilibrium of a of solution separated at the botlonl from the pure solvent by a embrane , placed in an atmosphcrc of vapour from the solvent .
the hydrostatic of the vilpour column ives is the vapour pure solvent , acceleration gravity , the ight a ) the of ) solvent , and the specific volume of the ) equilibrium of the column we is the osmotic pressure , vapour ] ) ressure of the solution , that of the pure solvent , } is the mean density of the colunn ] of 1906 .
] Pressure in a ConcentrSolution .
The writer was led to doubt whether this method could be applied to concentrated solutions , by the fact that a different result is obtained when the same problem is attacked by the consideration of an cycle in accordance with Hoff 's method .
This method , when fully worked out , seems to lead to the equation:\mdash ; where and have their previous meanings , is the increment in volume of a large lnass of solution at a atiC ) pressure when unit mass of solvent is add the increment in volume of a large mass of solution at a hydrostatic pressure when unit mass of solvent is added , is the work done in compressing unit mass of solution from a hydrostatic pressure to a hydrostatic pressure , and is the concentration measured by the mass of solute in unit mass of solution .
In the discrepancy between these two results the writel had come independently to the same conclusion as the Earl of keley and Mr. Hartley , namely , that in the column method error is introduced neglect of variation , owing to the action of gravity , of the concentration at different levels .
As however the writer 's conclusions differ , in some possible cases notably , from theirs , the investigation is omitted .
2 .
In the column lmethod what is undoubtedly found is a perfectly igid result the osmotic pressure corresponding to the concentration at the bottom of the column and the lowering of vapour pressure corresponding to the concentration at the top .
In order therefore to apply the result to a comparison of the osmotic pressure and vaponr pressure of solntions at the same concentrations , it becomes neccssary to obtain and employ a that will give the notic pressure corresponding to the concentration at the top in terms of the known osmotic pressure corresponding to the concentration at the bottom .
It is to be noted that in all cases osmotic pressures must be computed for equilibrium between solution and pure solvent under one definite pressure , say that of the vapour , for , as Duhem has pointed out , osmotic pressure of a solution , defined as the difference in the hydrostatic pressures of solution and solvent when in equilibrium through a semi-permeable membrane , is a function not only of the concentration of the solution but also of the hydrostatic pressure of the solvent .
Occasion will arise to return tc this point , since , as be shown , on it depends the discrepancy between the results 01 the of Berkeley and Mr. Hartley and of the writer .
'Mc'cauique Chimique , ' vol. 3 , p. 64 . .
W. Spens .
The Osmotic the [ Jan. 3 , A thermodyn amic argument which seems to satisfy these considerations is as follows : Consider a column of solution of such as to be in equilibrium with pure solvent a semi-permeable membrane at its base , and further suppose a ) flat reservoir at the level of the summit and filled with solution at the concontration of the solution there .
Let the following isothcrnlal reversible cycle be pel.formed:\mdash ; Let the top of the colulllD of be covered with a piston which exerts on the solution a hydrostatic to the vapour pressure .
Let the membrane also be part of a piston , and the pure bolvent be covered by a piston on it equal to its vapour pressure .
Suppose pistons to be htless .
Then ( 1 ) the piston solution fixed , move the piston separating solution and ) as to rell ) of solvent from the solution , the ) iston covering solvent being free to move .
Then work done the systen , where is the osnlotic p1essure corresponding to the concelltration at bottom of the column , is the loss in volume of the col ' is the ) ssure , and , the specific volume of the solvent .
The ) eratio being infinitely slow , the solvent will fro1n throughout the tion ( the proces , will be reversible .
( 2 ) Cover the ) ermeable ntembrane 1ctwecn solution solvent by uttcr : then cunnect the reservoir at the top with the column .
Further , let the reservoir be closed by a iston solution in it essnre equal to its vapour , since volunle of the ( , ulunllS may be as large as desired , we nay neglect variation of concclltrations due to the desclibed loss of of solvent , and therefore the solution at the top of the column and in the voir m be as still the same concentration .
Hence , if the piston at base of ) fixed , that top be free to move and that between top and .
be so to transfer of solvent from reservoir to colum ] ] , there is no osnotic work done by the , ' is the of solution at top of in the incl.etncnt in volume of utio at that entration , and at a ) on adding unit of solvent to a of solution .
1)isconncct the reservoir and compress the solution in the voir , is the osmotic pressure for solution in the incc t may be of any size , is also the osnlotic corresponding to the concentration ( the top of the column ) .
donc systen } is\mdash ; MW , where is mass of solution in 1906 .
] Vcopour Pressure a Solution .
reservoir , the work done in compressing unit mass from a pressure to a pressure ( 4 ) Connect the reservoir through a -per1ueable piston with pure solvent , and by moving piston troduce of solvent into reservoir .
The pure solvent is supposed to be covered by a piston exerting on it a hydrostatic pressul.e equal to its vapour pressure , and the work done by the system will thus be , where differs from in being solution at a pressure and not ( 5 ) Lower the columll of solution through a , where is the sectional area of the column , and raise a mass of solvent through the where is the height of the column .
The wolk done by the system is equal to the loss in of position , that is or where is the efiecve mem of the column .
But , since ) is the condition for equilibrium across a semi-permeable membrane at foot of the column .
Hence the work is ( 6 ) Release the pressure on the solution ; the .
to , then work done by the system is } .
is mass of solvent , that is ) eing as before of solute in unit lnass of solution .
The above is a complete cycle in all essentials , beino isothernlalo and reversible we may collect the work and equate to zero .
Hence hence Hence , if there be a column of whose top surface is under a pressure equal to the vapour pressure , which is in at its base , a semi-permeable membrane , with pure solvent at a pressure ( to its vapour pressure ) , this equation gives the connection between the motic pressures , corresponding to solution at the top and bottom of the columm , computed in each case with reference to solvent under the its vapour .
a is nsed in and vaponr on snb $/ 1\ldquo ; Mr. W. Spens .
} the [ Jan. 3 , as obtainable by Va n't Hoff tethod .
i$ equ or to hold for ) 3 .
The esult dednced by .
Hartley is the specific volulne of the solvent .
ince r is the increment in of a of solution unit mass of the solvent is added , equations ill only be identical when this increment is equal to of olvent dded , that is when the contraction on dilution is In cases , c.yc .
, cane sugal dissolved , this will be the case up to considerable concentrations , in it will not be so : thus in solutions of caustic soda in watel and differ ppreciably at comparatively moderate tionb , and ths erence r to 14 per cent. in -percent .
solution .
*If , reforc , ( jssnrc to be the case of ) , it ?
to 4 .
As has already been stated , the ] ) lesence of for in the equation due to Lord keley and Mr. HarCley depends on the assumption that the osmotic pressure , the difference in pressure between solution and solvent when in osmotic ) of the hydrostatic pressure of the solvent and , for example , would not if the whole system was compressed in a hydrostatic In rder to that the renloval of leads to the writer 's * The ) ased on a ] ) ) ( ' Phil. Trans vol. , p. by Mr. W. R. Bousfield : a solution at .
: \mdash ; 0.9804 Percentage cihc olunne ] I 1906 .
] Pressure in ated Solution .
result it is necessary to obtain an equation for the variation in osmotic pressure when solution of constant concentration is successively in equilibriunl with solvent at two different hydrostatic pressures .
This relation can be obtained as follows by all isothermal reversible cycle performed on a systeln , consistin large mass of solution , connected through a semia large mass of solvent .
} ) solution and solvent to be confined by pistons ] which ] pressurcs can be plied .
( 1 ) Apply to the solvent a pressure and such a pressure to the solution as will osmotic equilibrium .
Let this pressure be , so is the osnlotic pressure .
Then the work done the systeln , if the piston confining the solution be kept stationary and that ) etweell solution and solvent lnoved so as to introduce a mass of solvent into the solution , is when is the volume of the solvent at a pressure is the increment in volume of a mass of solution at a pressure or ] the addition of unit mass of the solvent to a pressure , simultaneously ) the solution in such a way as to maintain osmotic cquilibrinnl .
Let be the final hydrostatic pressure of the solution , so that is then the osmotic pressure the solvent is If be work done in unit mass of solution from to , hf being the llass of solution , work done in unit mass of solvent from to , and mass of the solvent .
done by systenl ( 3 ) the semi-permeable pistol to lllass ) of from the , , keeping stationary the ) iston C the solution .
The work done system is is the specific volume of that a .
is the increlnent in of a nlass ot ' ( a pressure when unit ) of solvent is added .
( 4 ) elease 1 re on solvent to , releasing that solution so as to intain equilil)vork done by the system is to , Sm .
evcrsible cycle .
terms the work and to have , gen , will be rluile negligible , of to writc Now in the deduction , due to ( 11 and AIr .
, of ' iation of the obnlotic to the concentrations at diHerent levels in it ) htllll tion , it that if 1\ldquo ; be bhe osmotic solution the onnected t a Cllbrane with al ] ( that of its vapour ) , and if be the ) ) ssure ) ution at the bottom of the cohnnn is in ilil i at a 1 ) ur , where is ( lensity of the solvent , is density 1Jt th colnnlll .
Let be the value which Pang if bStlt c then , or } the last equation is But to of II the ) and is solution at the bottolu the colnnnl lvent 1 ) is the density the colunnl , its ) the solution top .
if Inot i to ( the solvent : 0 bt ctin the the In , 1 ble .

