224 Messrs. W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Henry .
( c. ) The solution of the problem in both the cases of long shafts and short axles depends upon the discovery of a series of discontinuous functions .
These functions would appear to have considerable interest for the mathematician .
Like functions first appear , I think , , in a paper by Boussinesq , * and they offer an alternative to the usual solution of problems in vibration by Fourier 's series .
The latter in such cases often give easy analytical expressions , which , however , may be almost useless foi the purposes of numerical calculation owing to the slowness of their convergence .
In the course of the paper the numeriea ] solution by the use of discontinuous functions , is compared for one case with the solution obtained by a Fourier 's series , A verification of the work is thus obtained , and the advantages of the novel functions illustrated .
( d. ) There are many points in the memoir which suggest possibilities for physical research , and it seems to me that both from the purely scientific and the engineering sides a well-devised series of experiments on continuously and on abruptly varying torsional loads would lead to results of much interest and practical value .
The memoir endeavours to complete as fully for torsional loading the theory of a changing load as the latter has been completed for longitudinal and transverse loading by de Saint-Venant , Boussinesq , and Flammant .
The methods , analytical and graphical , are analogous , but the whole of the results , algebraic and numerical , are , I believe , novel , and apply to a series of cases which , if possible , have even greater practical importance .
" The " Mature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus Preliminary Notice .
" By Wyndham R Dunstan , M.A. , F.R.S. , Sec. C.S. , Director of the Scientific Department of the Imperial Institute , and T. A. Henry , B.Sc. Lond. , Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow .
Received dune 7 Read June 14 , 1900 .
Lotus Arabicus is a small leguminous plant resembling a vetch , with pink flowers , indigenous to Egypt and Northern Africa .
It grows abundantly in Nubia and is especially noticeable in the bed of the Nile from Luxor to Wady Haifa .
It is known to the natives as " Khuther , and old plants with ripe seed are used as fodder .
The dried plant is unusually green , and possesses the aroma of new-mown hay .
At \#166 ; * See c History of Elasticity 9 vol. 2 , arts .
401 , 402 .
The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus Arabicus .
225 certain stages of its growth it is highly poisonous to horses , sheep , and goats , the poisonous property being most marked in the young plant up to the period of seeding .
Owing to the trouble which this plant has given to the military and civil authorities in Egypt , the assistance of the Director of Kew was sought in order that the precise nature of the poison might be ascertained , and , if possible , a remedy found .
The matter having been referred to the Scientific Department of the Imperial Institute , Mr. E. A. Floyer , Director of Egyptian Telegraphs , collected some of the material for investigation .
It was found that when moistened with water and crushed , the leaves of the plant evolved prussic acid in considerable quantity , the amount being greatest in the plant just before and least just after the flowering period .
Further investigation has shown that the prussic acid originates with a yellow crystalline glucoside ( C22H19NO10 ) , which it is proposed to name lotusin .
Under the influence of an enzyme , also contained in the plant , lotusin is rapidly hydrolysed , forming prussic acid , sugar , and lotoflavin , a new yellow colouring matter .
The hydrolysis may be effected by dilute acids , but is only very slowly brought about by emulsin and not at all by diastase .
The peculiar enzyme , which it is proposed to call lotase , appears to be distinct from the enzymes already known .
Its activity is rapidly abolished by contact with alcohol , and it has only a feeble action on amygdalin .
Old plants are found to contain lotase but no lotusin .
The sugar has been proved to be identical with ordinary dextrose .
Lotoflavin , the yellow colouring matter , has the composition expressed by the formula C15H10O6 .
It belongs to the class of phenylated pheno-y-pyrones , and is a dihydroxychrysin , isomeric with luteolin , the yellow colouring matter of Reseda luteola , and with fisetin , the yellow colouring matter of Rhus cotinus .
The decomposition which ensues on bringing lotase in contact with lotusin , as happens when the plant is crushed with water , is therefore probably expressed by the following equation :\#151 ; C22H19NO10 + 2H2O = Ci5Hio06 + HCN + CsH^Oq .
Lotusin .
Lotoflavin .
Prussic acid .
Dextrose .
Hydrocyanic ( prussic ) acid occurs in small quantity in many plants , and according to Treub and Greshof is often present in the free state .
The only glucoside at present definitely known which furnishes this acid is the well-known amygdalin of bitter almonds , which under the influence of the enzyme emulsin , also contained in the almond , breaks up into dextrose , benzaldehyde , and prussic acid .
Owing to the scientific interest which attaches to this new glucoside , its properties and those of its decomposition products have been very fully studied , and the characteristics of the new enzyme have also been investigated .
VOL. LXVII .
S 226 Mr. G- .
J. Burch .
On the Spectroscopic Examination We are much indebted to Mr. Floyer for the great pains he has taken to collect , in Nubia , the necessary material for this investigation , and also to Sir W. T. Thiselton-Dyer for having grown the plant at Kew , from seed obtained from Egypt .
" On the Spectroscopic Examination of Colour produced by Simultaneous Contrast .
" By George J. Burch , M.A. , Reading College , Reading .
Communicated by Francis Gotch , F.R.S. , Professor of Physiology , University of Oxford .
Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
In a previous communication I have described some methods of using the spectroscope to analyse sensations of successive contrast .
In those experiments the eye , after having been fatigued by monochromatic\#151 ; preferably spectral\#151 ; light , is exposed to a second stimulus , consisting also of spectral light , exciting one or more colour-sensations which may or may not include that fatigued by the primary sensation .
The question naturally arises , whether the spectroscopic method might not be applied to problems of simultaneous contrast .
With this view I made a number of experiments with the Marlborough spectroscope during the summer of 1897 , of which the following may be mentioned .
A piece of thin cover-glass was fixed in front of the eye-piece at an angle of 45 ' with the optic axis , so as to reflect 1 into the field of view a small complete spectrum furnished by a 31-inch direct-vision spectroscope .
In order that this might be visible against the bright field of the larger spectroscope , a glass disc , with an !
opaque spot of the required size painted on it , was inserted in the eye-piece close to the diaphragm .
With this arrangement it was easy to see the effect of contrast upon the smaller spectrum , but the lack of a comparison spectrum made the experiment far less striking than I had anticipated .
Recently a device has occurred to me by which this difficulty may \ be got over , namely , the production of simultaneous contrast by dif- i ferent colours in the two eyes .
This method is employed in the well-known experiment by Hearing , | to show that the apparent alteration of colours by contrast is not due !
to an error of judgment , but to some real effect produced in the eye \ itself .
An ordinary stereoscope is very convenient for this purpose , a square 1 of red glass being inserted on one side of the central partition and a i square of blue glass on the other .
A small black wafer is then fixed 1 at the centre of each glass , with a white wafer close to the left side of J the one on the right-hand glass , and another on the right side of that j

