270 ZOOLOGY OF KEEGUELEN ISLAND .
Echinodermata.\#151 ; By Edgar A. Smith , F.Z.S. , Senior Assistant Zoological Department , British Museum .
( Plates XVI .
and XVII .
) Opportunity was taken some pages back of exhibiting the relations of the Mol-luscan-fauna of Kerguelen Island to that of the Ealklands and Patagonia ; and it was pointed out that representatives of boreal types entered into its composition .
Materials for similar comparisons between the Echinodermata indigenous to the same regions scarcely exist , but such as there are , make it apparent that what obtains in the Mollusca holds good also in the Echinodermata with respect to geographical distribution .
The sources of information relating to the animals of this class inhabiting the vicinage of Kerguelen Island , are at present limited to a few relics of the collections made there by the Antarctic Expedition in 1840 ; the collection made in 1874 by Dr. Kidder of the American Transit of Venus Expedition , part of the Challenger 's collections , and Mr. Eaton 's specimens .
The remaining portion of the Echinodermata obtained by the Challenger Expedition is still in course of investigation ; and the collections of the German Transit and Surveying Expedition are likewise not yet worked out .
This will account for the fewness of the species at present knowm from the island , which altogether amount in number to 15 .
Two of them were obtained by the Antarctic Expedition , one by the Challenger , four others by Dr. Kidder ; besides live out of the preceding seven , eight others were obtained at Observatory or Swain 's Bay .
The species not found by Mr. Eaton are Asterias rupicola , which was common on the beach near Dr. Kidder 's station , and nutrix : those which he did get were procured almost exclusively from the Lami-narian zone .
This will suffice to show how far dependence can be placed upon the following summary of the geographical relations of the little known fauna .
The species hitherto recorded from Kerguelen Island comprise 1 Holothurian , 2 Echini , 9 Asteriidae , and 3 Ophiuridae , \#151 ; in all 15 species referable to 12 genera .
Erom Patagonia are known 1 Holothurian , 1 Echinoid , 3 or 4 Asteriidae , and 5 Ophiuridae , \#151 ; in all , 10 or 11 species comprised in as many genera .
Of these the Holothurian , the Echinoid , one of the Asteriidae , and one of the Ophiuridae , \#151 ; that is 4 species , are indigenous also to the coast of Kerguelen Island .
A similarity to certain boreal terms is exhibited by some of the species .
Thus Porania antarcticastrangely resembles P. pulvillus of the northern seas of Europe ; the Pedicellaster represents another septentrional genus ; Pteraster affinis imitates closely Pt. militarisof boreal waters .
The genera and are almost cosmopolitan in distribution ; yet the Kerguelen Island representive of ECHINODERMATA.\#151 ; EDGAR A. SMITH .
271 the former , O. hexactis , in colour and in tout ensemble approaches of the Greenland coast .
The new form Leptopty chaster has been found only at Kerguelen Island .
HOLOTHURIIDiE .
Pentactella laevigata .
Verrill , Bull .
U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
, p. 68 .
Sab.\#151 ; " Kerguelen Island , twelve fathoms " ( Kidder ) .
Very common on the laminae of Macrocystis in Boyal Sound and Swain 's Bay ( Eaton ) .
Also Patagonia ( Antarctic Exped .
) .
The colour of this species during life is dull whitish ; the body is somewhat opaque , but the distended tentacles are semi-transparent white , tinged very faintly at the tips of their ultimate ramifications with pale rose colour .
Owing to their whiteness , specimens can be seen on the kelp , sometimes at a considerable depth below the surface , appearing to be much larger than their real size through the refraction of the light .
Echinida : .
[ Cidaris nutrix .
Wyville Thomson , Journ. Linn. Soc. 1876 , vol. xiii .
, p. 62 , fig. 4 .
Sab.\#151 ; Balfour Bay , Boyal Sound , 50-70 fathoms .
This most interesting species forms part of the collection of the Challenger .
] Hemiaster cavernosus .
Tripylus cavernosus , Philippi , Wiegm .
Archiv .
f. Naturgesch .
1845 , p. 345 , pi .
xi .
, f. 2 .
Brissopsis cavernosa , Agassiz , Ann. Sci. Not .
1847 , viii .
, p. 5 .
Semiaster cavernosus , Id. , Bevision of the Echini , 1873 , part iii .
, p. 587 , pi .
xxic .
, fig. 1 , 2 .
Tripylus australis , Philippi , op .
supra cit. , 1845 , p. 347 , pi .
xi .
, fig. 3 .
Brissopsis australis , Agassiz , Con .
B. Ann. Sci. Not .
viii .
, p. 5 .
Faorina australis , Gray , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1851 , vii .
, p. 132 .
Semiaster australis , Agassiz , l. c. 1873 , part iii .
, p. 586 , pi .
xxic .
, fig. 3 .
Faorina antarctica , Gray , op .
supra , cit. , 1851 , vii .
p. 132 ; idem , Cat. Bee .
Echin .
1855 , p. 57 .
Semiaster cordatus , Verrill , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
, p. 69 .
Semiaster sp. Wyville Thomson , Journ. Linn. Soc. 1876 , xiii .
, p. 67 , fig. 6 .
The spines when first observed were greenish olive in colour , but are gradually acquiring in spirit a brownish olive hue .
Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay and Boyal Sound , on mud , in 5-10 fathoms .
Extremely common ; Accessible Bay , 20-50 fathoms ( Thomson ) ; also Patagonia { Philippi ) .
A comparison of the types of F.aorinawith the collected by Mr. Eaton at Kerguelen Island , shows that the species are identical with one another .
Dr. Gray in 1855 says , in reference to this species and the two forms described by Philippi , cited above , \#151 ; " Perhaps these three are only one species .
" Mr. Yerrill , in a footnote at op .
cit. p. 71 , states that M. A. Agassiz is of the same opinion , viz. , that the Kerguelen species is identical with Philippi 's .
After a careful study of Philippi 's figures and descriptions , Dr. Gray 's types , and Mr. Eaton 's specimens , I thoroughly concur in believing them to be all of one species ( the form with deep ambulacral furrows the female ; that with shallower furrows the male ) .
If it should hereafter be discovered that the Patagonian species is , on the contrary , distinct from the Kerguelen Island species , the name proposed by Gray { antarctica ) will still have to be retained .
Astebjidje .
Asterias meridionalis .
( Plate XVI .
, fig. 1 .
) Perrier , Revision d. Stell .
1875 , p. 76 ; idem , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 36 .
The specimens from Kerguelen Island exhibit , in certain particulars , inconstant variations from the type of this species , and also from one another .
The following remarks , however , are not confined to these aberrations and differences .
Body 6-rayed ; rays rather stout , gradually tapering , convex above , rather more than twice as long as the disk is wide .
Ambulacral spines irregularly biserial , but not constantly so , rather stouter than in the type ; in one example they are at irregular intervals uni-serial , and towards the inter-radial angles of the mouth they are also in single series .
Next to the ambulacral spines succeeds a series of tentacular pores ; and then the lower or ventral margin of the ray bears a double ( rarely triple ) series of short stout spines .
Above these extends a naked band with small groups of papulae in it ; and above this naked band , limiting the dorsal area , is a row of isolated spines similar to the spines in the other series .
The dorsal spines of the disk and rays are numerous , irregularly scattered , short , blunt , scabrous to the touch , and striated ; and among them are interspersed numerous small groups of papulae : one example has the spines of the upper and lateral surfaces conformable to those of the type ; but another example bears spines which are acute and shortly conical , particularly so oil the disk and thickest portion of the arms ; and in this specimen they are also disposed more regularly than is usual , tending to arrange themselves in longitudinal series down the arms .
These spines are about 2 mm. long ECHINODERMATA.\#151 ; EDGAR A. SMITH .
in the disk of the example last mentioned , but become shorter and less regular in arrangement towards the extremities of the rays .
The madreporic plate is placed in an angle of the rays , and about midway between the centre of the disk and the margin .
Colour reddish brown above , pale bull* beneath .
Dimensions.\#151 ; Length of arm , 3 inches ; width of arm at the base , 7 lines ; width of disk nearly inches .
Hub.\#151 ; On roots of Macrocystis in Observatory Bay .
Also obtained by the Antarctic Expedition .
M. Perrier in his earlier description likens this species to A. to which he accidentally ascribed 6 rays instead of 5 .
This might have been misleading , had he not subsequently in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History ( loc. cit. ) corrected the mistake .
Asterias perrieri .
( Plate XVI .
, fig. 2 , 2a-b .
) Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 106 .
Discus sex-radiatus , modice amplus , in latitudine ad spatium maximum inter radiorum oppositorum apices circiter f- sequalis ; radii eylindraceo-attenuati inferne anguste planati .
Sulci ambulacrales baud latissimi ; spinse ambulacrales subgraciles , subeylindriese , non clavatae , in serie unica positae , in exempl .
maxim , circiter 3 mm. longae ; spinae ventrales in serie duplici spinis ambulacralibus adjacentes , binatae ( nisi rarissime ternatae ) , divergentes , spinarum intima subacuminata , major intermedia , sed minor et crassior ambulacrali .
Dorsum lateraque spinis brevissimis minutis subconicis diverse aspersis , papulis innumeralibus interpositis .
Tessella madreporiformis parviuscula , inter centrum marginemque disci intermedia .
Color saturate fusco-rufus .
Disci diam. 45 ; radiorum longit .
150 ; ad bases crass .
19 mm. ( Young .
) Six-rayed ; the rays very short , nearly as broad as long , with only two rows of ambulacral tentacles bordered by a single series of spines ; the latero-dorsal margin with a single row of large spines , the dorsal area with a similar longitudinal series down the middle of the ray .
Hab.\#151 ; Common on the roots of Macrocystis , and also taken in shrimp pots , at Observatory Bay .
The largest specimen has a cluster of some hundreds of young ones clinging to its ventral disk .
A. rugispina of Stimpson is allied to this species , with which I have had much pleasure in associating the name of M. Edmond Perrier of the Jardin des Plants , who has recently identified many species of the Asteriidae in our national collection .
M M Pedicellaster scaber .
( Plate XVI .
, fig. 3 .
) Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 107 .
Discus quinque radiatns , in latitndine ad radii longitndinem circiter semigequalis ; radii subcylindrici , sensim attennati , modice acnti .
Spinse ambulacrales graciles mquilongge , in seriebns tribus positse , duplo longiores dorsalibus ; anguli oris inter-radiales spinis parvis ad apices binis .
Spinse dorsales disci radiorumque brevissimse , obtusse , scabrse , distantes , in substructuram quasi clathratam diverse dispositse , es prope ambulacra paulo longiores cseteris ; maculse reticuli nudrn .
Anus subcentralis ; tessella madreporiformis subrotunda , prope marginem in angulo interradiali sita .
Disci diam. 9 , crass .
6 ; radiorum longit .
18 , ad bases crass 5-J mm. Sab.\#151 ; On roots of Macrocystis , Observatory Bay .
This species appears to agree very fairly with Sar 's description of bis genus Pedicellaster , excepting that the ambulacral furrows cannot be said to be " broad , " and that the ambulacral spines are in three rows instead of two .
But these differences are more specific than generic ; and therefore I think that this may , notwithstanding them , be properly considered a second species of that northern genus .
Echinaster spinnlifer .
( Plate XVI .
, fig. 4 .
) OtJiilia spinulifera , Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 107 .
Discus quinque radiatus , ad radii longitudinem in latitudine semisequalis , modice crassus , superne leviter rotundatus ; radii cylindraceo attenuati , breves , spinis scabris brevissimis numerosis in substructuram quasi clatbratam diverse dispositis , intervallis clathrorum nudis ; prope spinas ambulacrales iisque parallele spatium lineare fere nudum , radii basin versus sensim latius , serie solum unica spinarum minutarum ( longe minorum etiam spinis ambulacralibus ) munitum adjacet .
Spinse ambulacrales divergentes , transverse super tessellas singulas quaternis dispositse , duse interiores paulo longiores ; spina gracillima parva recta est intimse barum apud basin .
Anguli oris interradiales spinis parvis duabus terminantur .
Anus subcentralis ; tessella madreporiformis in angulo interradiali submarginalis .
Disci diam. 7 ; crass .
6 ; radiorum longit .
14 , diam. apud basin 4^ mm. 1Jab.\#151 ; Observatory Bay .
This curious little species is remarkable for the shortness of the rays , and for the minute slender spine within the ambulacral groove at the base of the innermost spine being straight , instead of being curved or hooked as the homologous spine is in the normal species of the genus .
The spines on the dorsal and lateral surfaces display no regularity in their arrangement ; but parallel with the ambulacral spines in the almost naked narrow space adjacent to them , the series of very small spines is disposed definitely , one spine on each plate , and above this the spines are placed two or three on a plate .
ECHINODERMATA.\#151 ; EDGAR A. SMITH .
Pteraster affinis .
( Plate XVI .
, fig. 5 .
) Smith ( sp. nov . ?
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xyii .
, p. 108 .
Discus magnus , quinque radiatus , subtns planus , supra convexus , modice crassus , ad radii longitudinem in latitndine sequalis .
Badii breves , e basibus latis statim ad apices angnstati , ibique ita recurvati ut sulcos ambulacrales exponant ; subtns utrinque extra sulcos membrana tenui spin is gracilibns circiter 30 apicibns vix ultra marginem membranse projicicntibus induti ; tessellse inter-ambnlacrales spinas graciles quatuor in membrana tenuissima fere ad apices producta gerentes , intima harum paulo cseteris breviori ; anguli oris interradiales spinis similibns octonis , pariter membrana conjunctis , duabus extimis longe brevissimis , duabnsque intimis longissimis , spinis atque supra illas crassis duabus sibi parallelis , leviter in medio concavis et apices versus acuminatis , longissimseque spinarum 30 lateralium in longitudine sequalibus .
Dorsum lateraque supra projecturis spiniferis minimis , foraminibus minutis haud numerosis interpositis ; illse spinis scabris in membrana connexiva psene apicium tenus conditis diverse a quaternis usque ad denas munitis ; foramen centrale modice amplum , fimbria spinarum brevium membrana conjunc-tarum circumdatum .
Color ( in spiritu vini ) sordidus , pallide ochraceus .
Exempl .
max ; disci diam. 15 , crass .
7 ; radii longit .
17 , diam. ad basin 8 mm. Exempl .
minor , disci diam. 10 , crass .
5 ; radii , longit .
9 mm. Sab.\#151 ; On roots of Macrocystis , Observatory Bay .
This species approaches very closely to P. Dance of Verrill , * which is supposed to have been found at Bio Janeiro .
It appears , however , to possess longer arms ( though the smaller specimen , it will be noticed , is considerably shorter in the rays than the larger ) ; the spines of the dorsal fascicles are everywhere uniform and scabrous ; there are only eight spines at each of the inter-radial angles of the mouth , and the two larger spines above them are not very long , but are stout .
In these respects chiefly it differs from Mr. Verrill 's species .
Porania antarctica .
( Plate XVII .
, fig. 1 .
) Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 108 .
Discus quinque radiatus , radiis sub-breviter conicis apices versus acuminatis , modice crassus , ad radii longitudinem in latitudine sequalis , subtus planus , supra convexus , ubique indutus cutem crassam carnosam , infra transverse inter margines sulcosque ambulacrales lineariter sulcatam , superne lsevem , nisi apud medium disci et etiam super radios spinis tubercularibus parvis sparsim ornatam ; margines laterales inferne spinis brevibus compressis ad apices latis et truncatis fimbriatse , spina unica super tessellam singulam sulcis linearibus jam supra dictis * Described in Proc. Boston Soc. Not .
Hist. 1869 , vii .
, pp. 386 , 387 .
mm2 definitam ; spinse ambulacrales biseriatse , exteriores duplo longiores multoque robus-tiores interioribus , latse , ad apices abrupt truncatse neque angustatse , extus leviter sulcatse ita nt duplices esse yideantur ; tessella madreporiformis rotunde oyalis , paulo ad centrum propior quam margin em ; anus centralis , papillis brevissimis spiniformibus circiter 12 circumjectis .
Color carneus yel sanguineus .
Diam. max .
90 , minim .
48 mm. Hah.\#151 ; Dredged in a retired inlet of Swain 's Bay , in about 10 faths .
of water , and outside the belt of Macrocystis .
The furrows on the outside of the exterior ambulacral spines are formed chiefly by the skin which clothes them .
The minute tubercles on the back exhibit no regularity in their arrangement ; there are about a dozen of them on the middle of the disk and a few on the short conical arms .
This species may be distinguished from the rather closely related northern Porania pulvillus , Muller , by differences in the ambulacral spines , and in the number and character of the marginal spines .
pulvillus has 3 or 4 spines on each of the marginal plates , which are much smaller than the single spines in P. cmtarctica .
Asteropsis is the name usually adopted by authors for the genus to which Muller 's species belongs .
The genus thus designated was founded by Muller and Troschel for the reception of Asterias carinifera , Lamk .
( see Wiegm .
Archiy .
1840 , p. 323 ) ; and in their System der Asteriden , 1842 , pp. 62-4 , they include in the same genus A. ctenaeantha , A. pulvillus , and other species in addition to the one just mentioned .
Porania is the appellation given to Miiller 's A. pulvillus by Gray , who described it as Porania gibbosa , Leach , in the Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not Hist. , 1840 , December , p. 288 .
It has appeared advisable , to me , to restrict ( Mill .
\amp ; Trosch .
( of which Qymnasteria , Gray , is a synonyme ) to A. carinifera , Lamk .
, inermis , Gray , \amp ; c. , and to retain Porania , Gray , for P. pulvillus and antarctica .
Pentagonaster meridionalis .
( Plate XVI. .
, fig. 6 , 6a .
) Astrogonium meridionale , Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 109 .
Discus quinque radiatus , ad radii longitudinem in latitudine circiter f gequalis , depressus , subtus supraque leviter convexus .
Badii modice longi , apud bases lati , apices versus sub-repente attenuati , spinis ambulacralibus in seriebus quatuor dis-positis , interioribus compressis apices versus dilatatis tandemque truncatis , exterio-ribus teretis ad apices rotundatis in longitudine subparibus .
Anguli oris inter-radia'les singuli spina unica conica robusta exstante super angulum inter-ambu-lacralem ( similiter ac in Pterastro ) et infra hanc spinis parvis 6\#151 ; 8 in serie reclinantibus .
Discus radiique subtus fasciculis spinosis in seriebus ex sulcis ECIIINODERMATA.\#151 ; EDGAR A. SMITH .
ambulacralibus ad margines laterales excurrentibus , fasciculis ipsis ex spinis parvis cylindricis subacutis , multo quam spinis ambulacralibus brevioribus , compositis : latera angusta , fasciculis parvis spinosis quadratis ( circiter 20 super radios siugulos ) confertim in seriebus angustis duabus margini appositis , iis in serie inferiore caeteris super superficiem ventralem , iisque in serie superiore caeteris super super-ficiem dorsalem consimilibus .
Easciculi dorsales numerosi , breviter pedunculati et fere contigui , singuli ex spinis brevissimis ad apices obtuse rotundatis 10\#151 ; 20 constructs ; inters titia fasciculorum omnia nuda , pedicellariis magnis rnultis munita .
Badii ad apices supra tuberculo magno , unico ; tessella madreporiformis rotunda , elevata , fere in medio inter centrum marginemque , posita ; anus subcentralis .
Disci diam. 24 ; crass .
10 ; radiorum long .
29 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Dredged in Observatory Bay in 5-10 fatlis .
on mud .
This species apparently belongs to the section of the genus defined by Gray for the reception of a form from Port Essington ( Proc. Zool. Soc. 1847 , p. 79 ) .
Eor it differs from Dr. Gray 's short divisional description in no respects excepting that the ventral surface is not entirely covered with granules ( or spines ) , and that the disk is not flat .
Probably this last distinction is due to Dr. Gray 's example having been dried , whereby it very likely had become shrunken and more depressed than it would have been had it been preserved in fluid like the Kerguelen Island example .
This species , A. paxillosum , Gray , is now placed in the genus Pentagonaster , by M. Perrier .
Leptopty chaster .
Lepty chaster , Smith , Annals \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 110 .
Derivation ( Gr .
) T^exTog 'narrow , 7ttv^ a , plate , and star ; in reference to the narrowness of the ventral plates .
Discus quinque-radiatus , depressus ; radii modice longi ; superficies dorsalis fasciculis spinularum minutarum pedunculatis confertim obsita ; radii serie unica laterali tessellarum tenuium transversarum lamelliformium usque ad ambulacra vix productarum muniti , serieque altera fasciculorum spinarum minutarum ( fasciculis unicis cum tessellis ordinate dispositis ) inter tessellas et ambulacra interposita ; tessella madreporiformis super marginem in angulo interradiali locata .
This remarkable form of Starfishes is perhaps more nearly related to the genus Luidia than to any other .
It differs from that genus , however , in the lateral spinulose narrow plates not reaching quite to the ambulacra , but leaving a narrow intermediate space occupied by groups of spines in line with the plates , which gradually becomes wider towards the base ( in Luidia the plates extend to the ambulacra ) ; and also it has no elongated spines , and the body is larger in proportion to the rays than it is in that genus .
Leptoptychaster kerguelenensis , ( Plate XVII .
, fig. 2 .
) Leptychaster Icerguelenensis , Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 110 .
Archaster excavatus , Wyville-Thomson , Journ. Linn. Soc. 1876 , xiii .
, p. 72\#187 ; fig. 10 .
Discus quinque-radiatus , modice amplus , depressus , supra et infra planus , in latitudinc ad radii longitudinem circiter -f-sequalis ; radii apud bases baud admodum lati , apices versus sensirn attenuati , spinis ambulacralibus gracilibus , transverse ( ratione ad sulcos habita ) quaternis vel quinis positis , duabus interioribus longi-oribus , eaeterisque gradatim brevioribus ; iidem ad latera snbtusque , tessellis minute spinulosis ( spinnlis ipsis seabris et apnd radiorum bases longissimis , indeque apices versus panlatim abbreviatis ) angustis , transversis , lamelliformibus , obtecti ; aliqui ex bis apices radiorum versus usque ad snlcos ambulacrales psene attingent , bases vero versus ita gradatim ab bis recedunt ut apud angulos interambulacrales aream trigonalem ntrinque relinquant ; inter tessellas et spinas ambulacrales fere per totam radii longitudinem , in serie unica , fasciculi parvi spinamm brevium inter-ponuntur , et prseter banc juxta basin , in areis trigonalibus supradictis , series alise quatuor singulatim per vices intercalantur , omnes fasciculi cum tessellis ordinibus collocantes ; anguli oris interradiales acutis spinis utrinque quaternis vel quinis muniti .
Superficies dorsalis fasciculis pedunculatis spinarum brevium confertim serta ; tessella madreporiformis modice magna , subovalis , fasciculis spinarum obsita , ad angulum inter-radialem super marginem posita .
Disci diam. 23 , crass .
8 ; radiorum longit .
38 , ad bases lat. 13 mm. Hal).\#151 ; On roots of Macrocystis , Observatory Bay ; also obtained in the island by the Antarctic Expedition ; and " Off Cape Maclear , south-east coast of Kerguelen Land , from , a muddy bottom at a depth of 30 fathoms " ( JVy .
Thomson ) .
The small fascicles of little spines on the dorsal surface are borne on short peduncles of skin , and are so closely packed together that their apices constitute an even surface ; and the madreporic plate being covered with spines similar to those of the rest of the surface is concealed from view .
Ophiurida ) .
Ophiacantha vivipara .
( Plate XVII .
, fig. 3 a-c .
) Ljungman , Ofvers .
K. Vetensk .
Akad .
Eorliandl .
1870 , p. 471 ; Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 110 .
Ophiocoma didelphys , Wyville Thomson , Journ. Linn. Soc. 1876 , xiii .
, p. 78 , fig. 13 .
Examples from Kerguelen Island differ slightly from specimens of O. vivipara found at Patagonia , in the oral shields , the adorals , the upper arm-plates , and the uppermost arm-spine .
ECH1N0DERMATA.\#151 ; EDGAR A. SMITH .
( Kerguelen Island form).\#151 ; Disk covered on both sides with conical scabrous granules ( as described by the author ) ; oral shields only slightly longer than broad ; adorals quadrangular ( not trigonal ) , about -S as large as the orals , almost touching one another on the inner side , their lower margins the longest ; 3 or 4 oral papillae on each side of an angle , of which the outermost one ( or sometimes two ) is broad and flattened ; arms , side and lower arm shields normal according well with Ljungman 's description ) ; arm-spines slender , 9 or 10 in number , the uppermost one is shorter than the next spine , and after this the remaining spines gradually diminish in length ; the upper arm-plates are not so wide as in the typical form .
Diam. disk 12 ; length of the longest arm-spine 3-J mm. Hah.\#151 ; Common on the roots of kelp in Observatory and Swain 's Bays ; entrance to Boyal Sound ( Wyville Thomson ) ; also Patagonia .
The differences pointed out above are hardly of sufficient importance to constitute specific distinction between the Kerguelen Island and the Patagonian forms .
Patagonia , as Liitken suggested ( Zoological Becord 1872 , p. 448 ) , is most probably the true habitat of the typical specimens , and not Altata on the W. coast of Mexico ( the locality cited by Ljungman ) , which is doubtless erroneous .
The geographical range of Ophiocantha is very extensive : 5 of its species are from the northern seas , 1 from the Mediterranean , 1 is Portuguese , 1 West Indian , 1 Javanese , and lastly there is this 1 from Patagonia and Kerguelen Island .
Ophioglypha hexactis .
( Plate XVII .
, fig. 4 a-c .
) Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , Peb .
, xvii .
, p. 3 ; Terrill , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , May , iii .
, p. 72 .
Discus liexagonalis , angulis propter radios interrupts , lateribusque leviter con-cavis , depressus ; papillae orales apud angulos septenae vel octonae , acute conicae , una ad apicem longissima , caeterae utrinque gradatim breviores ; scuta oralia pali-vel ligoni-formia , parva , manubrio latissimo brevissimo ab ore remoto , et laming cordata ad latera utrinque leviter concaviuscula ; scuta adoralia angustissime linearia , oralibus adjacentia ; intra angulos orales prope bases sunt scuta subovalia-oblonga bina , et pone hos alterum minus transversum apud angulorum apices situs .
Badii sex , graciles , circiter triplo-longiores latitudine disci ; inferiorum sextum post basin transversum , latissimum , margin externa in medio levissime angulata , lateri-bus brevissimis rotundato\#151 ; truncatis , et margin orali externm simillima , nisi angulo magis prominent ; scuta lateralia subtus conjuncta , commissuris apicem radii versus gradatim in longitudinem excrescentibus ; scutorum aliqua circiter radii medium subquadrata , paulo ab apicibus bases versus angustata , postice arcuata , ad latera recta , antice concava ; aliqua ad discum propiora subovalia , et his valde disparia , gradatim minora breviora atque latiora , scutellis parvis multis forma et amplitudine diversis , ad scuta lateralia conjuncta ; scuta , subparva , anguste subovalia , sese longe remota ; papillae ad latera inscisurae disci per-minutae atque uumerosae ( circiter 40 ) , supra que juxta basin bracbii aliae sex adyersus sex illorum in ordine obstant ifca ut fimbria faciant .
Spinae brachiales tres , breves , crassiusculae , baud per-acutae , pallidae , aequilongae ( nisi suprema saepe paulo longiori ) ; papillae ambulacrales super foramina ultima ( infra-bracliialia ) et fissuris oris conjunctae , quatuor , super foramen penultimum tres ; super pauca sequentium binae , et super caetera unicae , omnes diverse formatae , aliae breves , compressae et squamuli- vel scuti-formes , aliaeque spinis bracliialibus subsimiles nisi paulo breviores .
Discus diverse minuteque squamulosus .
Color supra ubique purpureo-niger , subtus sordide albidus .
Disci diam. 21 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Very common on roots of Macrocys Observatory Bay ; also Patagonia , They require to be killed as soon as they are taken out of the sea , as otherwise they rapidly break themselves up .
0 .
hexactis cannot be confounded with any other species hitherto described .
The number of arms , the peculiar shape of the oral shields , and the peculiarities of the ray-shields and spines distinguish it at once .
The ventral portion of the disk visible between the arms is rather large ; and the oral shields are only half as long as the space between them and the sides of the disk .
In colour and general appearance it approaches O. Sarsii , Liitken , of the Greenland coast , which seems to be its nearest ally ; but these species are so different from one another in detail , that it is needless to specify their distinctions .
The genus Ophioglyphais very widely distributed ; 2 of its species are from arctic or the northern seas , 4 from the Mediterranean , 2 from between Cuba and Plorida , 1 from China , 1 from Puget Sound , 1 from Patagonia , 2 from Kerguelen Island , and 2 from Sydney .
Ophioglypha brevispina .
( Plate XVII , .
, fig. 5 a-c .
) Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 112 .
Discus in latitudine ad radii longitudinem circiter J sequalis , depressus , ad latera rotundatus ; papillae orales ad angulos oris septenae vel octonae , quarum unae ad apices caeteris longiores , et extremae caeteris latiores ; dentes compressi , liastati , ad latera curvati , quatuor ; scuta oralia paulo longiora qham lata , trigono-obcordata , angulis exterioribus rotundatis , et apice subacuto ; scut a adoralia per-angusta , intus scutis oralibus subtus conjuncta , ad juncturas latioraAquam extus ; infra scuta adoralia alia duo eis paulo ampliora ( duplo quidem latiora ) fiunt anguli oris .
Badii quinque , modice longi , paulo latiores quam crassi ; scutorum inferiorum sextum post basin transversum , margin externa leviter curvata atque in medio parum acuta , marginibus lateralibus rectis per-brevibus , marginibus interioribus leviter excavatis atque apicem acutum versus convergentibus ; scutorum primum ( .
, basale vel mtnnum ) aliis major et dissimile , margin postica excavata in loco anguli levis , et ECHINODERMATA.\#151 ; EDGAR A. SMITH .
niargine antica liaud acuminata , \#151 ; secundum tertio amplius , cseteraque usque ad apicem gradatim minora tandemque ibi per-minuta ; scutorum lateralium subtus quinque vel sex priora disjuncta , csetera tamen per transversum conjuncta , commis-suris apicem radii versus gradatim in longitudinem excrescentibus , \#151 ; supra septen-decim priora disjuncta , coetera super dorsum conjuncta ; scutorum superiorum sextum post basin parum transversum , margin extern^ rotundata , lateribus antice recte convergentibus , et margin antica concavi-truncato , \#151 ; csetera radii apicem versus gradatim angustata , praesertim a front , itaque tandem quodque in angulo acuto ante producitur ; squamae disci diversae et impares , una in medio aiiisque paucis parum remotis cireumpositis quam caeteris majoribus ; scuta radialia diversa , contigua , praecedentibus subaequalia ; papillarum ad latera inscisurae disci ( in exempl .
max .
22 , in exempt , minoribus circiter 16-17 ) sex vel septem superiora caeteris ampliora ; spin\#174 ; brachiales tres , incrassatae , per-breves , paulo tantum squamis ambulacralibus longiores , quarum binae sunt tertio , quarto , atque interdum quinto scutorum , atque caeteris unicae ; papillae super margines primi foraminum ambulacralium ( infra-brachiale ) utrinque quatuor vel quinque .
Color albidus .
Disci diam. 9 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Observatory Bay .
Several species inhabiting the seas of the North bear a superficial resemblance to this form :\#151 ; such are O. albida , Porbes , Airs , and O. , Lutken .
And besides these 0 .
Lymani , Ljungman , from Patagonia , is very like it .
0 .
brevispina resembles this last species in having very short arm-spines scarcely longer than the ambulacral papillae ; but differences in their size , and in the relative length of their arms , and in the form of their radial shields , \amp ; c. , afford good specific characters for their distinction from one another .
Note on the Actinozoa.\#151 ; By the S. Baton .
At Kerguelen Island , as in all cold seas , are not usually found between tide-marks , but occupy sites constantly under water .
In high northern latitudes they seldom occur in situations less than a fathom in depth , and are usually of a red colour .
At Kerguelen Island the genus Actinia was represented by one if not by two red species frequenting rocks in shallow water just below the lowest limits of the tide , and on the roots of in four or five fathoms .
They did not seem to be identical with any of the species figured by Gosse in his History of British Sea Anemonics .
An was obtained sparingly by the dredge on mud in Observatory Bay ; but the specimens unfortunately perished during my temporary absence from the station at the time of the Transit .
N N Trans , of Vexras Exped Kerguelen Island Zoology Pl .
KT C.Berjeoux litk .
Mmtern .
Bros , imp Kerguelen Island .
Zoology P1..XVH .

