28 Mr. C. S. Tomes .
On Development of genera will not only accord with , but appears actually to support a view of septation .
For the analogy with septate anthers , where septation must have occurred , and the similarity between the details of these and those in Dancea , and especially the partial septations in both , make it appear probable that in this genus progressive septation has taken place .
It is thought probable that progressive septation has been a feature , at least where the sori are elongated , as in Dancea .
But the question is left over for future discussion whether or not a similar septation , rather than coalescence , may be accountable also for the origin in the first instance of a circular sorus with a plurality of sporangia united together as in Asterotheca , or in Pecopteris unita .
" On the Development of Marsupial and other Tubular Enamels , with Notes upon the Development of Enamel in General .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. , F.R.S. Received July 12 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) It was pointed out by my father , the late Sir John Tomes , that the enamel of marsupials was peculiar in that in the whole class , with the solitary exception of the Wombat , the enamel is freely penetrated by tubes which enter it from the dentine , and are continuous with the dentinal tubes at the junction of the two tissues .
This character is met with sporadically in other mammals\#151 ; for example , in the Jerboa among rodents , in the Shrew among insectivora , and notably in the Hyrax , in which animal the free penetration makes its enamel look quite like that of a marsupial .
Whilst there is a large literature upon the development of ordinary enamel , little or nothing has been written about that of tubular enamels .
The outermost portion of marsupial enamel is always devoid of tubes , and the extent to which the tube system exists varies greatly in different members of the group , so that the same enamel organ is obviously capable of forming either tubular enamel or enamel with solid prisms .
Moreover , the sporadic reappearance of tubular enamels amongst mammals who have for the most part lost this character , and its occasional occurrence in a rudimentary condition as an abnormality in man , point to its not originating in any manner fundamentally different from that of ordinary enamel development ; and it is claimed that the study of its development in marsupials affords the clue to the real nature of enamel development in all animals .
Marsupial and other Tubular , S , -c .
The nature of the question renders it impossible to convey in brief space the grounds upon which the conclusions have been arrived at , but they are\#151 ; That the special cells of the enamel organ ( Ameloblasts ) do not themselves calcify .
That they each furnish from their free ends outgrowths or processes which are continuous with their own plasm , and which may be traced through the entire thickness of young enamel .
That one ameloblast furnishes the whole length of an enamel prism .
That the fibrillar outgrowths , previously more or less correctly described by other observers in other enamels , but apparently not appreciated at their full importance , do calcify from without inwards in such a manner that an axial canal is left uncalcified .
Hence the canals of marsupials are in the centres of the prisms , and not , as supposed by Yon Ebner , in the interspaces of the prisms .
And that towards the completion of the full thickness of the enamel the central axis is no longer left soft , but the whole calcifies into a solid prism .
It is claimed that other enamels , for instance human enamel , calcify in the same way .
It has long been known that short processes hang out from the ends of the ameloblasts , and these , having first been described by my father , are generally styled Tomes ' processes ; and also that the earliest formed layer of enamel is perforated , so that acids will peel up a perforated membrane from its surface during its development .
Longer fibrils have also been detected by Andrews , Williams , and others ; but so small a thickness is occupied by these structures , and the full solidification of the prism follows so close upon the heels of any change in the direction of calcification , that the true nature of these structures has not been detected .
But in marsupial enamel , owing to the tubular condition which is so very transient in human and other mammalian enamels being permanently retained , the problem is presented under conditions more favourable for elucidation .
Hence it is my belief that all enamels alike are formed by the centripetal calcification of fibres furnished by the ameloblasts , and that tubular enamels are nothing more than the perpetuation of a stage which is passed through , though only for a brief period , by every solid enamel prism .
This view serves to explain the occurrence of the various forms of tubular enamel which are found in fish , in some of whom\#151 ; e.g. , Sargus\#151 ; the reverse order of things is met with\#151 ; that is to say , the prisms first formed near to the dentine are solidly calcified , but as their growth goes on the later-formed portions become tubular , so that in the completed enamel there appears to be a system of tubes entering it from its free surface .
30 Prof. R. Boyce and Dr. W. A. Herdman .
In certain cartilaginous fish there is a combination of both of these arrangements of tubes , from the dentine and from the surface , and sundry other apparently anomalous conditions are met with .
But if the views advocated in this paper be accepted , all difficulty in accounting for these arrangements , very difficult to explain from any teleological standpoint , disappear , for they become merely slight variations or arrests at different stages of a process common to all enamels during their formation .
" On a Green Leucocytosis in Oysters associated with the presence of Copper in the Leucocytes .
" By Rubert Boyce , M.B. , Professor of Pathology in University College , Liverpool , and W. A. LIerdman , D.'Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Zoology in University College , Liverpool .
Received July 9 , 1897 .
In the course of an investigation upon oysters under normal and abnormal conditions , upon which we have been engaged for the last two years , and upon which we propose to submit to the Society a detailed memoir during next session , we have come upon a phenomenon which we i-egard of such considerable importance that we desire to publish a brief record of our observations and experiments , as we believe they may prove of interest to other biologists who are engaged in work on the micro-chemistry of the cell .
The phenomenon we have now to describe is the presence of large quantities of copper in certain green leucocytes found in a diseased condition of the American oyster .
The oysters suffering from this leucocytosis are always more or less green , but must not be confounded with ordinary green gilled oysters , where the colour is due to a totally distinct cause .
History .
Green oysters have been known from an early period , and there are various historic cases on record* of people having been poisoned by eating green oysters , and of the oyster merchants being put upon trial because of the deleterious nature of their goods .
Periodically green oysters have been suspected or convicted of being coloured with copper , and just as often it has been proved by competent authorities that copper has nothing whatever to do with the green colour .
This difference of opinion in the past has undoubtedly been * An interesting historical survey of the subject up to 186f\gt ; , was given by the late Mr. Arthur O'Shaughnessy , in the 'Annals and Mag. Not .
Hist. , ' ser. 3 , vol. 18 .

