Electrical Conductivity in Gases traversed by Cathode Bays .
375 The following Papers were read j \#171 ; The Circulation of the Surface Waters of the North Atlantic Ocean .
" By H. N. Dickson .
Communicated by Sir John Murray , F.R.S. II .
" On Cerebral Anaemia and the Effects which follow Ligation of the Cerebral Arteries .
" By Dr. Leonard Hill .
Communicated by Dr. Mott , F.R.S. III .
" The Influence of Increased Atmospheric Pressure on the Circulation of the Blood .
Preliminary Note .
" By Dr. Leonard Hill .
Communicated by Dr. Mott , F.R.S. IY .
" Contributions to the Comparative Anatomy of the Mammalian Eye , chiefly based on Ophthalmoscopic Examination .
" By Dr. G. L. Johnson .
Communicated by Dr. Gadow , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 31 .
' " Electrical Conductivity in Gases traversed by Cathode Rays .
" By J. C. McLennan , Demonstrator in Physics , University of Toronto .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 7 , 1899 , \#151 ; Read February 1 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the experiments which are described in this paper was to investigate the nature of the conductivity produced in different gases when cathode rays of definite strength passed through them .
In a series of papers , * Professors J. J. Thomson and Rutherford have recently shown that gases become conductors , when traversed either by Rontgen or by uranium rays , owing to the production of positive and negative ions throughout their volume .
In the present investigation cathode rays were found to impress a condition of the same kind upon a gas , and laws have been developed which connect the absorption of these rays with the number of ions produced by them in the absorbing gases .
The investigation is described under the following subdivisions ( 1 ) Form of tube adopted for the production of cathode rays .
( 2 ) Ionisation by cathode rays .
( 3 ) Discharging action of cathode rays .
( 4 ) Ionisation not due to Rontgen rays .
* 'Phil .
Mag. , ' November , 1896 , p. 393 ; ibid. , January , 1899 , p. 109 .
2 F %

