Reports from the I. \lt ; c Preliminary Report to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty on some of the Results of the Cruise of H.M.S. Challenger } between Hawaii and Valparaiso .
" By Professor Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff on Board .
Received February 26,1876 .
Read March 23 .
[ Plates 15-19 .
] To Captain Evans , C.B. , F.R.S. Sir , \#151 ; I have the honour to report that we left Honolulu on the 11th of August , and on the 12th we sounded in 2050 fathoms , and took a series of temperature observations between the islands of Oahu and Hawaii .
At night a crimson reflection was visible in the position of the top of Mauna Loaj but as we understood that the side crater of Kilauea only was in eruption , we supposed that that was some great conflagration of forest on the flank of the mountain .
All the following day we steamed against a head wind along the rugged and picturesque coast of Hawaii\#151 ; headlands of lava and volcanic ash separated by deep wooded ravines or " gulches , " with a rapid hill-stream running in the bottom of each .
The top of Mauna Loa was covered with clouds during the day ; but at night a splendid crimson glare hung over the mountain , and lit up the clouds to a wide radius , and it became evident that we were fortunate enough , to see one of the rare eruptions of the summit crater .
Early on Saturday we cast anchor in Hilo Bay ; and a party of us made arrangements to start as early as possible for the volcano of Hilauea thirty miles distant , intending , if the eruption of the summit crater continued and if we found it practicable , to push on to the top of the mountain .
We left Hilo in the afternoon , taking magnetic and photographic instruments with us , and rode all night through the forest and over the lava-flows , reaching the rest-house at the side of the crater of Kilauea early in the morning .
During the early part of the night the light from the summit crater was very brilliant , but it began to pale soon after midnight ; and when we arrived at Kilauea we cfound that the column of smoke at the top of the mountain had almost entirely disappeared , and that the eruption was virtually over .
This .
was no great disappointment to us ; for we had learned that the ascent of the upper peak could not be undertaken with reasonable safety without much greater preparation in the way of provisions and warm clothing i than we had had time to make , and we should have been obliged to give up the idea in any case .
In the afternoon we went down into the vol. xxrv .
2 m 464 Prof. Wyville Thomson on some of the Results of crater and walked for about three miles oyer the nearly level lava of the eruption of 1868 ; we then clambered up to the ridge overlooking the two liquid lava-lakes , which have remained nearly in the same condition since 1868 .
We were greatly struck with the fluidity of the melted lava , which washed about in the basins with very much the appearance and sound of water .
The night was perfectly still ; and it had a most singular effect to see the two glowing lakes tossing like the sea in a storm , and a red surf dashing against the encircling rocks and springing forty or fifty feet into the air in wreaths of fiery spray .
Lieutenant Bromley and I recrossed the lava-bed after nightfall , and our guide missed the ordinary path .
In several places on either side of us the surface of the lava was glowing of a dull red , and we could see through the cracks the crust red-hot a couple of inches under our feet , and the liquid lava flowing beneath at the depth of about half a yard .
Observations were made by Lieutenant Bromley in the crater and on its rim with the " Fox " dip-circle for inclination and intensity , and with the prismatic compass for declination .
Several excellent photographs of the " crater were taken during the day .
We returned to the ship on the evening of the 16th , and on the 19th we left Hilo and proceeded under sail for Tahiti , 2270 miles distant .
In the section between Hawaii and Tahiti , running almost directly5 southwards , we established 18 observing-stations at average intervals of 160 miles .
At each of these stations the depth was taken , the bottom temperature was observed with two thermometers , a fair sample of the bottom was obtained , a specimen of the bottom-water was brought up for examination , serial temperature observations were made to a depth of 1500 fathoms , and at eight stations the trawl or dredge was sent down six times successfully , and twice unsuccessfully .
Except at one station close to Tahiti , where the depth was 1525 fathoms , the depth ranged throughout the section from 2000 to 3000 fathoms , with a mean of about 2600 fathoms , and the nature of the bottom was very uniform# Except in the neighbourhood of the groups of volcanic islands , where it was found to be largely composed of volcanic debris and shore mud , it consisted mainly of red clay , in many of the soundings containing a large admixture of the decaying shells of Foraminifera , and in almost all including a large proportion of manganese peroxide in the form of concretions , from the size of a nut to that of an and passing into fine , almost microscopic granules visible under a low power in every sample of sounding .
In two patches the siliceous skeletons of Badio-larians were so abundant as almost to entitle the deposit to the name of " Badiolarian oozeand a patch between these , nearly halfway between Hawaii and Tahiti , in its abundance of surface Foraminifera approached a true " Globigerina-ooze."The larger samples of bottom brought up in the dredge or trawl had , of course , the same general character as the contents of the " Bailey " sounding-tubes ; but in these large manganese the Cruise of H.M.S. 1 / concretions , up to the size of an orange , or even larger , were collected in quantity , the greater part of the red clay being usually washed out .
The surface-temperature naturally rose in passing southwards from Hawaii towards the equator , and again sank from the equatorial belt towards Tahiti .
The isothermobaths * between 14 ' C. and 24 ' C. gathered together and approached much nearer to the surface in the region of the trade-winds , owing no doubt to the rapid removal of the hot surface-water by evaporation and the driving action of the wind .
Thus the isothermobathic .line of 14 ' 0 .
, which is at a depth of 200 fathoms a little to the north of Tahiti , is at a depth of 100 fathoms on the line .
In the Atlantic all the isothermobaths seem to participate in the rise in the region of the trade-winds : it is not so in the Pacific ; the lines below 14 ' C. uniformly sink , forming a depression which extends from lat. 10 ' N. to lat. 10 ' 8 .
; thus the isothermobath of 5 ' C. , which may be taken as a type of these deeper lines , is found in at .
10 ' N. at a depth of 450 fathoms , and in lat. 10 ' S. at the same temperature within the limits of error of observation , while in lat. 2 ' 34 ' N. it is found at 625 fathoms .
The point where the isothermooaths gather together most markedly and approach nearest to the surface is a little to the north of the northern border of the equatorial counter current .
This fall of temperature is so .
decided as to indicate jrame special areas of cold water ; and it may possibly be to some extent lue to the pressing up of deeper and therefore colder layers of the colder BTade-current against the hot stream .
In the equatorial region between at .
10 ' N. and 10 ' 8 .
there is a belt of water about 80 fathoms in hickness at a temperature generally over 25 ' C. ; and the whole of his water , with the exception of the narrow band of the counter current , is running to the westward at the rate of from 40 to 70 miles i| day .
1 The bottom fauna over the whole of the manganese area is very meagre , Both as to number of species and number of individuals .
It can scarcely ie said , however , that its scope and extent were fairly tested ; for the presence of manganese nodules is almost fatal to the working of the rawl , which either becomes imbedded and impacted among them , producing a destructive strain on the line , or has the bottom tom out of the gag on the way up .
Still in every haul in which the trawl was recovered * The word Isotherm having been hitherto so specially appropriated to lines passing iihrough places of equal temperature on the surface of the earth , I have found it convenient , in considering these questions of ocean temperature , to use the terms \#166 ; Mthand Isobcithytherm ; the former to indicate a line drawn through points of equal [ nmperature in a vertical section , and the latter a line drawn through points of equal fcepth at which a given temperature occurs .
Isothermobaths are shown in a scheme d a vertical section , such as Plate 16 .
Isobathytherms are of course projected on the I rface of the globe .
2 m 2 466 Prof. Wyville Thomson on some of the Results a few things occurred , usually in a very fragmentary condition .
The following Table gives an idea of the proportion in which the principal groups were represented:\#151 ; * Station 264 , oCOO faths .
Station 271 , 2425 faths .
Station 272 , 2600 faths .
Station 274 , 2750 faths .
Station 276 , 2350 faths .
Pisces 1 * * * Cephalopoda .
Gasteropoda ... * Lameliibranchiata * Brachiopoda ... * Tunicata ... * Pycnogonidae .
Becapoda ... ... * * Schizopoda .
Stomatopoda .
Edriophthalmat a. Phyllopoda .
Ostracoda .
Copepoda .
Cirripedia .
Annelida ... * Gephyrea .
Bryozoa Holothuridea * * Echinoidea * * Ophiuridea * * ... * Asteridea . . .
* Crinoidea .
Hydromedusae .
Zoantharia ... ... * Alcyonaria * * * * Porifera * * * * Bhizopoda * * * * * We took advantage of a week 's stay at Tahiti to sound out the slope of this coral reef , and to determine the bathymetrical distribution of the species of reef-building corals .
This investigation , which is not yet fully worked out , will form the subject of a separate report .
We left the harbour of Papeete on the 3rd of October , and proceeded southwards , expecting to pick up the westerly winds about lat. 40 ' S. We sighted the island of Tubuai on the 7th ; and as we fell in with a succession of southerly instead of easterly winds , we were able to cut off a corner , and we reached the parallel of 40 ' in long .
132 ' 58 ' W. Prom that point we ran along a little to the south of the parallel of 40 ' , encountering no regular westerly winds , but rather heavy weather from the south and north and calms , as far as long .
84 ' 39 ' W. , when we altered our course for the island of Juan Pernandez , steaming most of the time against foul winds from the north and north-east .
We reached the Cruise of H.M.S. ' ./ Juan Fernandez on the evening of the 13th , and remained there two days observing and photographing the scenery , and making such collections of animals and plants as it was possible to make in so short , a time .
We weighed anchor on the evening of the 15th , and stood towards Valparaiso , where we arrived early on the 19th .
The section from Papeete to Valparaiso ( Plate 17 ) is about 5000 miles in length , and is naturally divided into two parts\#151 ; the run southwards to the parallel of 40 ' S. , and the course along that parallel towards Valparaiso .
In the entire section we established 20 stations bearing numbers from 279 to 298 .
At each of these , the ordinary bathymetrical and temperature observations were taken successfully ; and the trawl or dredge was lowered on thirteen occasions , twelve times successfully ; on one occasion the trawl-line carried away .
Setting aside Station 279 in 680 fathoms close to Tahiti , the mean depth throughout the section was 2139 fathoms , considerably less than that of the meridional section from Honolulu to Tahiti , and very much less than that of the section in the North Pacific between Japan and San Francisco .
The nature of the bottom is very much the same as in the meridional section , red clay imbedding nodules and lumps of various sizes of manganese peroxide , and passing in the shallower soundings into more or less pure Globigerina-ooze ; and , as in the section between Hawaii and Tahiti , the fauna is generally meagre .
The trawling between Juan Fernandez and Valparaiso ( Station 298 ) was particularly interesting ; animal forms were much more abundant than they usually are in the Pacific ; and the general character of the assemblage resembled in a remarkable degree that of the fauna of the Southern Sea in the neighbourhood of the Crozets and Kerguelen , many of the species , including some singular Urchins of the family Ananchytidae , being identical .
The bottom it this station was a bluish mud , the surface layer containing little or no carbonate of lime , and , curiously enough , a deeper layer , with a considerable proportion of Globigerina-shells .
There was no considerable quantity of manganese in the sounding .
Notwithstanding the considerable depth of 2225 fathoms , the conditions in this locality seem much more favourable to animal life than even the manganese area ; and I am nclined to think that we had struck upon one of the highways by which migration takes place to the northward from the Southern Sea .
The Hollowing Table ( p. 468 ) gives the proportion in which the principal animal proups are represented in the trawlings in this section .
| From Tahiti to Station 288 , in lat. 40 ' S. , the upper temperatures Slell regularly and steadily ; but the isothermobaths below 80 ' C. showed ather a tendency to sink , indicating a somewhat thicker , layer of water i \gt ; t a temperature above 3 ' C. towards the southward .
The cause of this [ pparent anomaly will be discussed hereafter .
From Station 289 the \#166 ; sothermobaths run on to Valparaiso with scarcely an oscillation of any importance ( Plate 18 ) .
Prof. 'Wyville Thomson o some of the Results of | !
i 1 Jr Although there are certain points which have yet to be worked out in detail , the general distribution of temperature in the Pacific seems | sufficiently simple .
In the first place , the whole mass of water consists L of two well-marked divisions\#151 ; an upper layer of no great depth , in which 1 ] there is rapid cooling from the surface downwards , and considerable j variation in temperature in different localities ; and a mass of water of } incomparably greater amount , which extends to the bottom , and which ; may be said to have nearly the same temperature throughout .
These 5 two divisions shade into one another ; but the isothermobath of 5'0 .
may u be taken as indicating generally the limit between them ; below this fine ( j the isothermobaths are still affected by surface thermal conditions , but j comparatively slightly .
Above the line of 5 ' 0 .
the course of the isother- j mobaths is to all appearance entirely regulated by causes affecting the | surface-temperature\#151 ; that is to say , directly or indirectly , by surface cur* ^ rents produced by permanent , periodic , or variable winds .
The equatorial s , current occupies the region of the trade-winds , approximately from ^ lat. 20 ' 1ST .
to 20 ' S. , and there is a strong but narrow counter current , jj entirely comparable with the counter current in the Atlantic between ^ the parallels of 5 ' and 8 ' N. The water of the equatorial current has | Station 279 , 680 faths .
Station 280 , 1940 faths .
Station 281 , 2385 faths .
Station 285 .
2375 faths .
Station 286 , 2335 faths .
Station 289 , 2550 faths .
Station 291 , 2250 faths .
Station 293 , 2025 faths .
Station 295 , 1500 faths .
Station 296 , 1825 faths .
Station 297 , 1775 faths .
Station 298 , 2225 faths .
Pi flees \amp ; 4* Cephalopoda , . .
* 1 G-asteropoda .
Lamellibran chiata .
Brachiopoda , Tunicata .
Pycnogonidas ... ... * i Deeapoda * ... * * tff * ... ... * . . .
* I Schizopoda .
Stomatopoda .
Edriophthalmata * ... ... ... . . . . . . . . .
* Phyllopoda .
Ostraeoda .
Copepoda ... * Cirripedia .
Annelida * * * * $ i Gl-ephyrea * 1 Bryozoa , * * * * * 1 Holothuridea ... ... * ... * * ' Echinoidea * Ophiuridea ... * \amp ; | * | Ast.fvridfia * * Orinoidea .
Hydromedusse ... ... * T/ Ofl.nt .
VmTia * * Alyonaria * ... * ... * 3 Porifera ... * * * * * * * * * i| Bhizopoda ... ... ... ... ... * * * * * * * * * * if the Cruise of H.M.S. ' no free egress to the westward , being intercepted by the peninsula of Malacca and the islands of the Malay archipelago ; but neither is it completely arrested , as the equatorial current is in the Atlantic by the unbroken coast of America ; consequently a return current , less permanent and less defined than the return current in the Atlantic , finds its way to the north-eastward along the coast of Japan .
The course of the Japan current is much the same as that of the G-ulf-stream , and is due , as in the Atlantic return current , to the high initial velocity of the intercepted water ; its influence on the temperature of the ocean is , however , much sooner reduced and obliterated .
The hot water of the Pacific equatorial current instead of being gathered together and focused by the form of the land-barrier , as it is in that of the Atlantic , spreads out in the Middle and West Pacific in a vast sheet of abnormally warm water , extending to a depth of nearly 100 fathoms ; thus the isobathytherm of 25 ' C. at 80 fathoms passes near Hawaii and Tahiti , and near the parallel of 20 ' N. on sections between the Admiralty Islands and Japan .
The lower isothermobaths of the upper layer are a little nearer the surface in lat. 40 ' N. than in lat. 40 ' S. ; and this I believe to be due to the banking of the Antarctic indraught against the Arctic land-barrier , and to be the only case in which the position of the lines of equal temperature in the upper layer lis not absolutely dependent upon the wind .
The temperature of the underlying cold water is derived from another l source , and its distribution is governed by other laws .
Throughout the :Pacific the isothermobath of 5 ' C. maintains on the whole a very even seourse , oscillating between the 400- and 500-fathom lines .
These oscillations depend upon causes acting on the surface , for the line rises and Ifalls in harmony with the higher isothermobaths .
The line of 5 ' C. ^deviates sensibly on two occasions from its comparatively straight course , rjln the equatorial region it sinks to a depth of 625 fathoms , probably ifrom the communication of heat from the upper layer of water by mixing ; Band in lat. 40 ' it rises to 300 fathoms , probably , as I have already said , ifrom the accumulation of cold water against the Arctic barrier .
The next three degrees of temperature are lost with increasing slowness in dthe next 700 fathoms , the line of 2 ' O. making a very even course at a adepth of 1100 fathoms , and the remaining degree or degree and a .fraction is lost between 1100 fathoms and the bottom .
The depth of the sTacific increases slowly from the south to the north , the mean difference ^between the depth of the South Pacific and that of the North being operhaps as much as 1000 fathoms ( see Plate 19 , and the results of the osoundings of the ' Tuscarora ' ) .
Notwithstanding this increase in depth , .we have satisfied ourselves , although the determination is one of great iidifficulty , that the bottom-temperature rises slightly from the south ^northwards .
~We can scarcely say more than that it rises slightly ; for ( the differences in the temperatures below 1500 fathoms are so small that 470 On some Results of the Cruise / a result can only be arrived at by a careful combination and comparisoi \#166 ; of many observations , taking into full consideration the errors of th\lt ; thermometers arising from all sources .
There is a like very slight deb crease in the bottom-temperatures from east to west .
I think we can scarcely doubt , looking at such a diagram as Plate 191 that , like the similar mass of cold bottom-water in the Atlantic , the bottom\#174 ; water of the Pacific is an extremely slow indraught from the Souther\#174 ; Sea .
That it is moving , and moving from a cold source , is evident from\#174 ; the fact that it is much colder than the mean winter temperature of the\#174 ; area which it occupies , and colder than the mean temperature of the* crust of the earth ; that it is moving in one mass from the southward isfe shown by the uniformity of its conditions , by the gradual rise of the\#174 ; bottom-temperatures to the northward , by the fact that there is nol adequate northern source of such a body of water ( Behring 's Strait being\#174 ; only 40 fathoms deep , and a considerable part of that area being occupied !
by a warm current from the Pacific into the Arctic Sea ) , and by ourtro knowlege from observations that one or two trifling currents from the\#174 ; Sea of Okotsk and the Behring Sea , which are readily detected and localized , and are quite independent of the main mass of cold water , re-fti present the only Arctic influx .
During its progress northwards thejtl upper portion of the mass becomes slightly raised in temperature bytt mixture with , and possibly by slow conduction from , the upper layersia which are affected by solar heat .
At the end of the Gulf ( that is to sayj\#174 ; in the extreme north , furthest from the cold source ) the temperature is , ttj as I have already pointed out , influenced to the very bottom ; and theii isothermobaths between 8 ' and 5 ' C. are obviously raised and pressed el together , probably by the accumulation of the cold water against the -fi land .
The colder bottom-water to the westward might be expected , from c the lower initial velocity of the Antarctic water causing it to drag against m the west coast .
Iam everyday more fully satisfied that this influx of cold wateri^j into the Pacific and Atlantic oceans from the southward is to be re-ferred to the simplest and most obvious of all causes , the excess of i\gt ; evaporation over precipitation in the northern portion of the land hemi-l f sphere , and the excess of precipitation over evaporation in the middle 1 and southern part of the water hemisphere .
After what I have already said I need scarcely add that I have never a seen , whether in the Atlantic , the Southern Sea , or the Pacific , the 1 slightest ground for supposing that such a thing exists as a general ver- | tical circulation of the water of the ocean depending upon differences of * specific gravity .
Valparaiso , Dec. 5,1875 .
-Proc Boy Soc Wol 24 , HIS '\amp ; oc-.$^$SmL2a wf\ , k " \#151 ; - \#151 ; w " T iii Iroc .
Bqy .
Soc. Vol , Z4 , Fl:17 .
SECTION SHOWING THE VERTICAL DISTRIBUTION OF TEMPERATURE BETWEEN TAHITI AND VALPARAISO .
1 Mk%\amp ; Sons , M Troc .
Eqy .
So\#163 ; Vol:24 , Pl,18 .
SECTION SHOWING THE VERTICAL DISTRIBUTION O TEMPERATURE BETWEEN LATITUDE 40 ' NORTH AND LATITUDE 40 ' SOUTH .
zQ waaS^aa 23'6 22'3 Lai-S .
40 ' MalbyA Sends , lift .

