1376 .
] On the Poison-fangs of Snakes .
259 To reverse the process it is only necessary to remark that every number :j either uneven , or twice an uneven number , or four times an uneven I imber , or eight times an uneven number , \amp ; c. , so that every sum of dif-i rent elements can be uniquely reduced to the form 1 + 3 .
a+5 .
/ 3+\amp ; c. ; he practical reduction is very easy , ex. gr. 14+12+5+3+2 converts to7+7+3+3+3+3+5+3 + l + l. ) A little consideration shows that r \gt ; two different partitions of one system can convert into the same partition of the other , so that every partition of either system corresponds liquely to a partition of the other ; and the numbers of partitions in the vo systems are thus equal .
Several conversions of P(l , 3 , 5 . .
.)n are ven in the Phil. Mag. for April 1875 ( S. 4 .
vol. xlix .
pp. 307-311 ) ; at when writing that note I failed to obtain the connexion between le partitions into 1 , 3 , 5 . . .
with repetitions and the partitions into l , 2 , 3 ... without repetitions .
[ .
" On the Development and Succession of the Poison-fangs of Snakes .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) - At the conclusion of a paper upon the development of the teeth of .phidia , published in the first part of the Philosophical Transactions Dr 1875 , I noted that there were peculiarities , which I had not then een able to understand , in the succession and the development of the oison-fangs .
Having reviewed the literature of the subject in that and l a preceding paper on the development of Amphibian teeth , I will pass t once to the description of the special features which distinguish the evelopment of poison-fangs .
Poisonous snakes are divided into two roups\#151 ; those which have a shortened movable maxillary bone , which arries the poison-fang and another tooth ; and those which have the oaxillary bone longer , immovable , and often carrying other teeth behind he poison-fang .
I In the former , or viperine poisonous snakes , the poison-fang is very ong , and , when out of use , lies recumbent ; in the latter , or colubrine \gt ; oisonous snakes , it is , from the maxillary bone being fixed , constantly rect ( Gunther 's 'Reptiles of British India , ' p. 165 ) .
As fresh specimens are indispensable for a complete investigation of levelopmental peculiarities , I have only been able to examine one of the olubrine group , viz. the Indian cobra .
Of it one may say , roughly speaking , that the poison-fangs are deve-oped just like any other Ophidian teeth , for a description of which I must *efer to my former paper , save only that the tooth-germs are necessarily individually modified so as to produce the characteristic canaliculated i poison-tooth .
Mr. C. S. Tomes on the [ Feb. 3 , But in all the Tiperine poisonous snakes which I have examined a strikingly different arrangement is displayed .
Upon the movable maxillary bone there is room for two poison-fangs , side by side ; and in a macerated skull the tooth in use occupies an extreme position , sometimes on one side , sometimes on the other .
In sections displaying all the soft part in situ , the remaining space is generally occupied by a tooth which is in process of becoming attached ; and , in whatever part of the area of tooth-development the section be taken , the successional teeth are arranged in pairs , in two parallel series .
Thus there will be a right-hand series , consisting of the tooth in place and of four successors , and a left-hand series , consisting of the tooth next about to be in place and four successors .
When a tooth of the right-hand series has finished its period of work and is about to be shed , it is succeeded by a tooth of the left-hand series , which comes up by its side , and vice versa .
A septum of connective tissue separates the two parallel series , and is continued out into the pouch , which conceals the poison-fangs when at rest , as a free hanging fold : its use appears to be to keep the long axis of the tooth in the right direction prior to its becoming firmly attached , and to prevent a right-hand tooth from getting into the place of one of the left-hand series , and vice versa .
It is obvious that this manner of succession is well adapted to avoid loss of time in the changing of the poison-fangs , for much can be done towards the fixation of a new tooth before the old one is detached .
That the succession is both rapid and regular would appear to be indicated by the fact that the successional tooth-sacs are very numerous ( often as many as ten ) , and that they are arranged in pairs , the two being almost absolutely alike in size and stage of development .
Now as any given tooth of the one series is succeeded or preceded by its fellow in the other series , one might expect , if any great interval of time were to elapse , that the one would be materially more advanced than the other .
When such is not the case , one is led to the inference that the succession is rapid and also regular .
In the cobra , the new tooth has to come into place and become attached after the loss of the old one ; and this , it may be inferred , would take much more time .
May this not be the explanation of the feat performed by Indian jugglers with the cobra , and their selection of this snake for such purposes ?
A cobra disarmed would remain harmless for some considerable period ; a rattlesnake similarly treated would be furnished with a new weapon very speedily .
I have examined specimens in spirit of a few other colubrine snakes ; and although such examination is less satisfactory than the methods which may be pursued with fresh specimens , I believe it will be found to hold good that in those snakes which have a movable maxilla carrying but one tooth , the successional teeth are developed in two parallel series , this being the highest specialization of the poison-apparatus .
876 .
] Poison-fangs of Snakes .
261 On the other hand , in the colubrine poisonous snakes , approximating lore nearly to the harmless snakes in having a fixed maxilla , sometimes arrying other teeth in addition to the poison-fang , the successional oison-fangs are developed in a single series , like any other Ophidian eeth .
The development of the individual tooth-germ presents one feature of ery great interest .
A poison-fang tooth-germ is first formed , like any \gt ; there , of an extinguisher-shaped enamel-organ ( derived from an ingrowth \gt ; f epithelium , which winds in and out amongst the tooth-sacs ) and of a ample conical dentine-pulp .
As it elongates , a groove appears on one side , which , by deepening and jy the approximation of its lips , becomes ultimately converted into the poison-canal .
The enamel-organ , with its characteristic enamel-cells , passes without break or alteration into this groove ; but still lower down s the tooth-germ , where the groove has become very deep ; instead of the prismatic enamel-cells constituting a regular pavement epithelium , we lave a reticulum of stellate cells , just like that gelatinous stellate tissue which forms so large a part of a mammalian enamel-organ .
That the stellate reticulum is a non-essential structure I have previously shown ; but the occurrence of such a tissue within the poison-canal , which it wholly occupies , and in which it represents the prismatic enamel-cells found higher up , strongly suggests the idea that it is a sort of retrograde metamorphosis of an active enamel-forming tissue into one which simply fills up a void .
It need hardly be added that a thin layer of enamel is developed upon the outside of the poison-fang ; but none is formed on the interior of the poison-canal .
The base of a poison-fang is fluted ( this is not the case with other Ophidian teeth ) , the dentine being convoluted as it is in the base of the tooth of Varanus or in a labyrinthodont tooth ; and it is attached to the bone through the medium of an opaque , ill-defined , calcified material , beyond which again comes a coarse bone .
The fixation of a tooth is effected ( alike in cobra and in viperine snakes ) by a sort of scaffolding of coarse-textured bone , which is very rapidly thrown out from the surface of its finer textural maxillary bone .
This " bone of attachment , " met with , as I have elsewhere pointed out , in greater or less quantity wherever teeth are attached by ankylosis , is entirely removed with the fall of a tooth , and is developed afresh for its successor .

