Propositions containing some Properties of TANGENTS to Circles ; and of TRAPEZIUMS inscribed in Circles , and non-inscribed .
Together with Propositions on the Elliptic Representations of CIRCLES , upon a plane Surface , by PERSPECTIVE .
By Richard Hey , LL. D. ; late Fellow of Sidney Sussex and Magdalen Colleges , in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by the Rev. Edward Balm , M.A. F.R.S. Read March 31 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 348 .
] That the perspective representation of an entire circle is an ellipse , is simply a part of the doctrine of conic sections , and is not in need of demonstration .
The principal inquiry of the author has been with regard to the positions of the axes of such ellipses .
Selecting the case of any number of circles in the same plane , and having their centres in the same line , he examines what law is to be observed in the directions of the axes of the representing ellipses .
It is shown first , that , excepting one particular case , their axes do not converge to one point , but are parallel to other lines that do converge to one point .
He does not , however , pretend to determine accurately and separately each of these other lines , but endeavours to ascertain certain limits within which they must be arranged , and a certain regularity in the variation of their directions , which he considers sufficient for all the practical purposes of the artist .
Preparatory to this inquiry are a series of propositions purely geometrical , relating to the properties of tangents to circles , and of trapeziums inscribed in circles , some of which may not be altogether new , but are inserted as necessary to the demonstration of other properties , which he believes have not before been noticed .
These are kept separate from the perspective propositions , because they may be more interesting to mathematical readers than they might be if interwoven with considerations of their application to perspective representation .
The greatest part of this paper of course could not admit of being publicly read , being unintelligible without reference to the figures which accompany it .

