Electro-Chemical Researches on the Decomposition of the Earths ; with Observations on the Metals obtained from the alkaline Earths , and on the Amalgam procuredfrom Ammonia .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. M.R.I.A. Read June 30 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 333 .
] In the last Bakerian lecture mention was made of an apparent decomposition of barytes and strontites into oxygen and inflammable matter .
In the prosecution of the same course of experiments upon lime and magnesia , similar results were obtained ; for when either of these earths was slightly moistened with water , and thereby rendered a conductor of electricity from a powerful voltaic battery , inflammable matter was developed at the negative surface , and oxygen at the positive .
And these phenomena were not dependent on the presence of water ; for when the same earths were made conductors , by being in a state of fusion with boracic acid , analogous appearances were produced .
On account of the high inflammability of these bodies , similar experiments were conducted under naphtha , with the hope of preserving the products for examination ; but although dark opake specks , having in some cases an appearance of metallic splendour , were produced , yet , when heat was applied to them under boiling naphtha , there was no appearance of fusion , and consequently no separation from the surrounding undecompounded earth ; but when the mass was afterwards thrown into water , an effervescence occurred , and evident decomposition of the water .
A series of experiments were next undertaken upon mixtures of barytes or strontites , of lime or magnesia , of alumine or silex , with potash ; and in the case of barytes and strontites , the potassium formed was evidently not pure , but apparently alloyed by another metallic substance .
When barytes , strontites , or lime , was mixed with oxide of silver or mercury , the compounds afforded analogous results when acted on by the voltaic battery .
When these experiments were resumed , after an interval of several weeks , a battery had been prepared with 520 pair of plates ; and an attempt was then made to unite the bases of these earths with the wire by which the power was conveyed from the negative end of the battery .
Lead , silver , copper , and iron , were successively employed ; and it was by means of the last that the most distinct results were obtained .
When an iron wire , one seventieth of an inch in diameter , was made the conductor on the negative side , and brought into contact with moistened barytes or strontites , lime or magnesia , alumine or silex , the globule formed by fusion at the end of the wire appeared in each case to be alloyed with something capable of acting upon water ; but those last named had , in succession , less action than the preceding .
The author had not himself used mercury as a means of obtaining the bases in a state of alloy till informed by a letter from Professor Berzelius of Stockholm , who has used it with success for the decomposition of lime and barytes .
And Mr. Davy has found it to succeed equally with strontites and magnesia .
And although mercury alone failed of effecting the decomposition of alumine and silex , yet when an alloy of mercury and potassium was made the medium of communication even with these bodies , they each appeared to be decomposed by assistance of the affinity of potassium for their bases .
The author also informs us of his success in repeating an experiment of Professor Berzelius and Mr. Pontin , on the decomposition of ammonia : a globule of mercury being inserted in a small cavity made in a piece of carbonate or muriate of ammonia slightly moistened , they are placed together on a plate of platina positively electrified , and the wire from the negative end of the battery is applied to the mercury .
The globule soon increases very considerably in bulk , and becomes converted into a soft amalgam , which absorbs oxygen from the atmosphere , or decomposes water into which it is thrown , and forms ammonia , while the globule gradually recovers its fluidity , and is reduced to its original size before the experiment .

