he reading of a paper , entitled " Researches in Electricity , Seventeenth Series : on the source of power in the Voltaic Pile .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
In this series , the author continues his experimental investigation of the origin of electric force in the voltaic pile .
Having found abundant reason , in the experiments already described , to believe that the electricity of the pile has its origin in the chemical force of the acting bodies , he proceeds to examine how the circumstances which can affect the affinity of substances for each other , influence their power of roducing electric currents .
First , with relation to heat : ?
circuits were made of a single metal and a single fluid , and these were examined with a view to ascertain whether , by applying heat at one of the junctions , only thermo-currents can be produced .
Some peculiar effects of heat are noticed and explained ; and several very necessary precautions in conducting these experiments are pointed out ; and it is found , when these are taken , that heat has a decided and distinct effect over the chemical affinities of the parts of a circuit subjected to its power , and a corresponding influence on the electric current produced .
This proceeds to such an extent , that , in some cases , either of two metals can be made positive or negative with respect to the other in the same fluid , solely by virtue of this power of heat .
The effect of dilution is then examined .
For this purpose , only one metal and one fluid are used in a circuit ; but the fluid is rendered more dilute at one point of contact than at the other .
It was ascertained that such dilution produces little or no effect with metals which are not acted on by the electrolyte employed ; and the precautions requisite as to other points are then stated .
But when these are observed , still dilution is found to have a most powerful influence on the results ; and , as the author believes , solely on account of its influence on the active chemical affinity .
Thus copper in dilute nitric acid is positive with respect to copper in strong nitric acid ; and the same is the case with lead , silver , and other metals .
It is not that the piece in the weakest acid is always positive with respect to that in the stronger acid ; for , in the first place , some very curious cases are given , in which a piece of metal in acid of a certain strength is positive with respect to a piece of the same metal in acid , either stronger or weaker ; and , in the next place , other cases are stated in which the piece in the medium acid is negative with respect to the other piece in either stronger or weaker acid .
The effect of dilution in nitric acid is such , that when certain different metals are compared together , either can , at pleasure , be made positive or negative with respect to the other ; thus , of the five metals , silver , copper , iron , lead , and tin , any one of them can be made either positive or negative with respect to any other ; with the sole exception of silver , which is always positive with re ?
spect to copper .
The inconsistency of these results with any theory of contact electromotive force is then strongly insisted on by the author .
The next division of the paper treats of the order of the metallic elements of voltaic circuits when different electrolytes are used .
It is usual to say , that metals are positive or negative with respect to each other in a certain order ; but Davy , and afterwards De la Rive , showed that , in certain cases , this order is inverted .
The author , by using ten metals , and seven different exciting electrolytic solutions , shows that in no two solutions is the order the same ; but that changes of the most extreme kind occur in exact conformity with the changes in chemical action , which the use of the different solutions occasions .
The next division of the paper considers the very numerous cases in which voltaic circuits , often such as are able to effect decompo ?
sition , are produced without any metallic contact , and by virtue of chemical action alone ; contrasting them with the numerous cases given in the previous series , where contact without chemical action , whether it be the contact of metal with metal , or with chemically inactive electrolytes , can produce no voltaic current .
The author then considers the sufficiency of chemical action to account for all the phenomena of the pile .
He shows that chemical action does actually evolve electricity ; that according as chemical action diminishes or ceases , so the electrical current di ?
minishes or ceases also ; that where the chemical action changes from side to side , the direction of the current likewise changes with it ; that where no chemical action occurs , no current is produced , but that a current occurs the moment chemical action commences ; and that when the chemical action which has , or could have produced a current , is , as it were , reversed or undone , the current is reversed or undone likewise ; that is , it occurs in the oppo ?
site direction , in exact correspondence with the direction taken by the transferred anions and cathions .
The accordance of the chemical theory of excitation with these phenomena is considered by the author as of the strictest kind .
The phenomena of thermo-electricity are considered by some philosophers as affording proofs of the efficacy of mere metallic contact in exciting an electric current .
The author proceeds , therefore , to examine these phenomena in relation to such an action , and arrives at the conclusion , that they , in fact , disprove the existence of such a power .
In thermo-electricity , the metals have an order which is so different from that belonging to them in any electrolyte , that it appears impossible to consider their succession , in any case , as due to any mutual effect of the metals on each other , common to both modes of excitation .
Thus , in the thermo-circuit , the electric current is , at the hot place , from silver to antimony , and from bismuth to silver ; but in a voltaic series , including dilute sulphuric or nitric acids , or strong nitric acid , or solution of potash , the electric current is from silver to both antimony and bismuth ; whilst if the yellow sulphuret of potash be used , it is from both antimony and bismuth to silver ; or if the hydro-sulphuret of potash be used , it is from bismuth to silver , and from silver to antimony ; and , finally , if strong muriatic acid be used , it is precisely the reverse , that is , from antimony to silver , and from silver to bismuth .
The inconsistency of these results with the contact theory is then insisted on and farther developed .
The last section of this series is on the improbability of there existing any such force as the assumed contact force .
The author contends that it is against all natural analogy and probability that two particles which , being placed in contact , have by their mutual action acquired opposite electrical states , should be able to discharge these states one to the other , and yet remain in the same state they were in at the first , that is , entirely unchanged in every point by what has previously taken place ; or , that the force which has enabled two particles by their mutual action to attain a certain state , should not be sufficient to make them keep that state .
To admit such effects would be , he thinks , to deny that action and reaction are equal .
The contact theory , according to him , assumes that a force which is able to overcome powerful resistance , both chemical and mechanical , can arise out of nothing : that , without any change in the acting matter , or the consumption of any other force , an electric current can be produced , which shall go on for ever against a con ?
stant resistance , or only be stopped , as in the voltaic trough , by the ruins which its exertion has heaped in its own course ; ?this , the author thinks , would be a creation of power , such as there is no example of in nature ; and , as there is no difficulty in converting electrical into mechanical force through the agency of magnetism , it would , if true , supply us at once with a perpetual motion .
Such a conclusion he considers as a strong and sufficient proof that the theory of contact is founded in error .
In a postscript , the author states that he has since found a passage in Dr. Roget 's treatise on Galvanism , in the Library of Useful Knowledge , published in January 1829 , in which the same argue ?
meant respecting the unphilosophical nature of the contact-theory is strongly urged* .

