Remarks upon Appendicularia and Doliolum , two genera of the Tunicata .
By THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY , Assistant-Surgeon R.N. ( late of H.M.S. " Rattlesnake " ) .
Communicated by Prof. EDWARD FORBES , F.R.S. Received February 26 , -Read March 27 , 1851 .
79 .
TLIHE genus Appendicularia was first formed by CHAMISSO from an animal found by him near Behring 's Straits , and thus described : " Corpus gelatinosum , subovoideum , vix quartam pollicis partem aequans , punctis rubescentibus ( interaneis ) transparentibus .
Appendix gelatinosa cestoidea , rubro marginata corpore duplo vel triplo longior .
Motu flexuoso natationi inserviens .
Motus animalis vividus .
" And he adds , " genus ultra recognoscendum , generi Cestum ( LES .
) forsitan affine .
" The specific name " flagellum " was conferred upon the animal , and it was figured ( P. XXXI .
) , though very indifferently* .
Ten years afterwards ( in 1828 ) MERTENS , voyaging in the same regions , rediscovered this animal , and he subsequently published a long account of it under the name of Oikopleura Chamissonis .
The only other notice of the genus ( so far as I am aware ) is that given by MM .
QuoY and GAIMARD+ .
It was observed in immense masses off Algoa Bay , South Africa , and was called by them Fritillaria , until they afterwards became acquainted with the descriptions of CHAMISSO and MERTENS .
Recognising as they do the priority of discovery of the former , they yet adopt the name conferred by the latter , and , without any very just reason , give to the specimens observed by themselves a new specific name , 0 .
bifurcata .
Vast numbers of the species observed by myself were found on the coast of New Guinea and in the Southern Pacific .
The differences separating this from the species observed by MERTENS are not to my mind sufficient to form the basis of any specific distinction , and as the description given by MM .
QUOY and GAIMARD , and by CHAM1SSO , are too imperfect to establish any certain distinguishing characters in their case either , I shall consider that only one species has been observed .
And as I can see no reason for the construction of a new and by no means euphonious name by MERTENS , I shall retain both the generic and specific names given by CHAMISSO , Appendicularia flagellum ( CHAMISSO ) , Syn .
Oikopleura Chamissonis ( MERTENS ) , Oikopleura bifurcata ( QuoY and GAIMARD ) .
The animal has an ovoid or flask like body , Plate XVIII .
fig. 1 , one-sixth to onefourth of an inch in length , to which is attached a long curved lanceolate appendage or tail , by whose powerful vibratory motions it is rapidly propelled through the water .
The body frequently appears wrinkled and crumpled externally , and its upper , smaller extremity has rarely clear and well-defined edges .
The lower part of the body is frequently separated from the upper by a slight cleft or constriction , fig. 4 , and it is here that MERTENS places the orifice of the mouth , supposing indeed that the upper part of the body plays the part of a maxilla !
81 .
The smaller extremity of the animal is perforated by a wide aperture ( d ) which leads into a chamber , which occupies the greater part of the body , and at the botton of this chamber is the mouth .
The chamber answers to the respiratory cavity of the lTunicata , and is lined by an inner tunic distinct from the outer ; the space between these , as in the Salpce , being occupied by the sinus system .
On the side to which the caudal appendage is attached , an endostyle ( c ) , altogether simrilar to that of the Salpe , lies between the inner and outer tunics ; and opposite to this , or on the ventral side , close to the respiratory aperture , there is a nervous ganglion , to which is attached a very distinct spherical auditory sac , containing a single , also spherical , otolithe .
The sac is about -o0th of an inch in diameter .
The otolithe about 8-oth , figs. 1 , 2 , 4 a. Anteriorly , a nerve is given off from the ganglion ( a ) which becomes lost about the parietes of the respiratory aperture ; another large trunk passes backwards ( b ) over the left side of the oesophagus , and between the lobes of the stomach , until it reaches the appendage , along the axis of which it runs , giving off filaments in its course , fig. 2 .
I did not observe anything resembling the " languet " of the Salpce ; but MERTENS describes two leaf-like larninae existing , one on each side of a " semicylindrical " body , which seems to be the nervous ganglion .
82 .
There is no proper branchia ; but that organ seems to be represented by a richly ciliated band or fold ( e ) of the inner tunic , which extends from the opening of the mouth forwards , along the ventral surface of the respiratory cavity , to nearly as far as the ganglion ; when it divides into two branches , one of which passes up on each side , so as to encircle the cavity ( f ) .
This circlet evidently represents the " ciliated band " of Salpa .
The moth ( g ) is wide , and situated at the posterior part of the ventral paris of the respiratory chamber .
The oesophagus ( h ) short , and slightly curved , opens into a wide stomach ( i ) curved transversely , so as to present two lobes posteriorly .
Between the two lobes , posteriorly , the intestine ( k ) commences , and passing upwards ( or forwards ) terminates on the dorsal surface just in front of the insertion of the caudal appendage ( 1 ) .
The heart lies behind , between the lobes of the stomach .
I saw no corpuscles , and the incessant jerking motion of the attached end of the caudal appendage rendered it very difficult to make quite sure even of the heart 's existence .
596 describes a vascular system , consisting of an aortic vessel , which runs forwards on the dorsal surface , and of a principal vein of a red colour , which passes to the ventral surface , and there divides into three branches , one of which ru-ns forwards to the " semicylindrical body " ( ganglion ?
) , and the other two pass to the dorsal region .
A circular canal communicating with the aortic vessel exists , he says , on each side of the anus , and is connected with the ventral vessel by means of a vessel , through which no corpuscles were seen to pass .
I have seen nothing of this vascular system .
The caudal appendage ( A ) is attached or rather inserted into the body on the dorsal surface just behind the anus .
It consists of a long , apparently structureless , transparent , central axis ( m ) , rounded at the attached , and pointed at the frtee end .
This axis is enveloped in a layer ( o ) of longitudinal , striped , muscular fibres ; which form the chief substance , in addition to a layer of polygonal epithelium cells , of the broad alary expansion on each side of the axis .
I did not observe the lateral canal containing air , described by MERTENS .
84 .
The only unequivocal generative organ I found in Appendicularia was a testis ( p ) , consisting of a mass of cells developed behind and below the stomach , enlarging so much in full-grown specimens as to press this completely out of place .
In young specimens the testis is greenish , and contains nothing but small pale circular cells ; but in adults it assumes a deep orange red-colour , caused by presence of multitudes of spermatozoa , whose development from the circular cells may be readily traced .
This orange-red mass , or rather masses , for there are two in juxtaposition , is described by MERTENS as the " Samen-behalter " or vesicule seminales .
IHe describes them as making their exit , bodily , from the animal , and then becoming diffused in the surrounding water .
This circumstance , indeed , appears to have furnished his principal reason for believing these bodies to be what the name indicates .
The spelrmatozoa have elongated and pointed heads about 'Xoth of an inch in length , and excessively long and delicate filiform tails .
MERTENS describes as an ovary , two granulous masses , which he says lie close to the vesiculae serninales , and have two ducts , which unite and open into this " c ovisac .
" This appears to me to be nothing more than the granulous greenish mass of cells and undeveloped spermatozoa , which exists in the testis at the same time as the orange-red mass of fully developed spermatozoa .
I saw nothing of any ducts , nor do I know what the ' " ovisac " can be , unless it be a further development of an organ which I found in two specimens ( fig. 3 q ) , consisting of two oval finely graiiulous masses , about 8-~th of an inch in diameter , attached , one on each side of the middle line , to the dorsal parietes of the respiratory cavity , and projecting freely into it .
MERTENS ' C ovisac " has about the same position as these bodies , and he says he saw " living animals " proceed from it , the part being afterwards evidently collapsed .
Unfortunately , however he does not appear to have noticed the endostyle , whence confusion might readily arise ; nor does he give the slightest hint as to the nature of the " living animals " which he saw come forth .
85 .
Still less am I able to give any explanation of the extraordinary envelope or " House " to which , according to MERTENS , each Appendicularia is attached in its normal condition .
I have seen many hundred specimens of this animal , and have never observed any trace of this structure ; and I have tad them in vessels for some hours , but this organ has never been developed , although MERTENS assures us that it is frequently re-formed , after being lost , in half an hour .
At the same time it is quite impossible to imagine , that an account so elaborate and detailed , can be otherwise than fundamentally true , and therefore , as MERTENS ' paper is not very accessible , I will add his account of the matter .
, trusting that further researches may clear up the point .
The formation of the envelope or " Haus " commences by the development of a larmina from the " c semicylindrical organ " ( ganglion ?
) .
This , as it grows , protrudes through the opening at the apex of the animal ( respiratory aperture ) .
Its corners then become bent backwards and inwards , and thus a sort of horn is formed on each side , the small end of which is turned towards the apex of the animal , while its mouth looks backwards , downwards and outwards .
At the same time two other horns are developed upwards ( the animal is supposed to have its small end downwards ) , one on each side .
These are smaller and more convoluted than the others .
This four-horned structure consists of a very regular network of vessels , in which , at the time of the development of the organ , a very evident circulation is visible ; the blood-corpuscles streaming from the attached end of the organ .
" The clearness with which the circulation was perceptible , together with the great abundance of vessels and the large extent over which they were spread , were circumstances which led me ( says MERTENS ) to believe this truly enigmatical structure to be an organ , whose function was the decarbonization of the blood .
The ease with which the animal becomes separated from this organ is no objection to this view ; the necessity there seems to exist for the reproduction of the latter rather confirming my opinion .
" It is highly desirable that more information should be gained about this extraordinary respiratory organ , which , if it exist , will not only be quite sui generis in its class , but in all animated nature .
And in a physiological point of view , the development of a vascular network , many times larger than the animal from which it proceeds , in the course of half an hour , will be a fact equally unique and startling .
86 .
As to the zoological relations of Appendicularia , its discoverer , as we have seen , considers that " it may possibly be allied to Cestum , " a conjecture in which no one can possibly coincide .
598 on the other hand , says , " The relation of this animal with the Pteropoda is unmistakeable ; if the Oikopleura possessed two tail-like appendages , every one would recognize in them the wings of the Pteropoda ; " and he proceeds to draw , what seems to me , a very forced comparison between Oikopleura and Clio .
I do not think that any one who has read the preceding pages will be at all disposed to agree with MERTENS either .
87 .
For my own part , I think there can be no doubt that the animal is one of the Tunicata .
The whole organization of the creature , its wide respiratory sac , its nervous system , its endostyle , all lead to this view .
In two circumstances , however , it differs widely from all Tunicata hitherto known .
The first of them is , that there is only one aperture , the respiratory , the anus opening on the dorsunm ; and secondly , that there is a long caudal appendage .
As to the first difference , it may be observed , that , in the genus Pelonaia , an undoubted Ascidian , there are indeed two apertures , but there is no separation into respiratory and cloacal chambers .
Suppose that in Pelonaia the cloacal aperture ceased to exist , and that the rectum , instead of bending down to the ventral.side of the animal , continued in its first direction and opened externally , we should have such an arrangement as exists in Appendicularia .
With regard to the second difference , I would rernark , that it is just the existence of this caudal appendage which makes this form so exceedingly interesting .
It has been long known that all the Ascidians commence their existence as larvae , swimming freely by the aid of a long caudate appendage ; and as in all great natural groups some forms are found which typify , in their adult condition , the larval state of the higher forms of the group , so does Appendicularia typify , in its adult form , the larval state of the Ascidians .
Appendicularia , then , may be considered to be the lowest form of the Tunicata ; connected , on the one hand , with the Salpce , and on the other with Pelonaia , it forms another member of the hypothetical group so remarkably and prophetically indicated by Mr. MACLEAY , and serves to complete the circle of the Tunicata .
88 .
Doliolum.-This name was given by OTTO to a free-swimming gelatinous case , altogether structureless , of which a single example was found by him in the Gulf of Naples .
Its nature is altogether unknown , for it is hardly justifiable , in the face of OTTO'S words , " Die Rander sind aber vollig glatt ohne alle Spur von Zerreissung , nirgend sieht man inwendig Rauhigkeiten wo die Eingeweide angessessen haben koinnten und die aussere HIaut geht ohne IUnterbrechung in die innere iiber , " to assume with MM .
QuoY and GAIMARD , that it is only a Biphore whose intestines have been destroyed by a parasitic Phronima .
Furthermore , OTTO states that the anitnal moved by a " worm-like contraction of its walls , " which by no means describes the mode of contraction of the Salpce , with which animals he was perfectly acquainted , and with a mutilated specimen of which , * Nova Acta Acad. Curiosorum , t. xi .
pars secunda , pp. 313 and 314 .
4H2 599 he expressly states he might , except for its peculiar motion , have confounded the form he describes* .
MM .
QUOY and GAIMARDt , altogether denying the existence of OTTO'S genus as a distinct form , appropriated his name for two species of tunicate animals observed by them at Amboyna and Vanikoro , and which they justly recognized as being very closely allied to the Salpw .
Of these two species , Doliolum denticulatum and Doliolum caudatumt , the former is the only one with which I have met .
MM .
QUOY and GAIMARD give only the following short description:"Its form is nearly that of the vessel from which we have derived its generic name , that is to say , it is enlarged in the middle and narrowed at its two extremities where the openings are situated .
The anterior opening is somewhat projecting and denticulated like a crown .
Eight circles in relief surround the body at nearly equal distances .
They have rather a polygonal than a circular form , and are probably vessels .
In the interior the branchia is visible , divided into two portions , which have their oblique lamellae upon a central vessel , as in the Pectinibranchiata .
Near the union of the two divisions posteriorly is the heart , and between them ( ?
) a vessel , the aorta , ascends ; not far from the heart is a transparent nucleus .
This is all that the vivacity of the mollusk , which bounded like an arrow through the water , allowed us to make out of its organization .
" Although I cannot think that MM .
QUOY and GAIMARD have done well in appropriating OTTO'S name to an animal confessedly different from that which he describes , it will perhaps cause least confusion to follow their example .
The specimens which I examined were taken in the South Pacific , a little to the northward of Sydney , N.S.W. , between Sydney and New Zealand , and in considerable numbers just at the entrance of the Bay of Islands .
89 .
Doliolum denticulatum , figs. 5 , 6.-A small transparent body , varying in length from one-sixth to one-third of an inch , and looking very much like a barrel open at each end , which swims by contracting its whole body , and forcing the water out at one or the other extremrity .
The apertures are considerably less in diameter than the central cavity .
The anterior ( d ) is produced into a sort of tube , with about twelve rounded dentations , which are turned inwards .
The base of the tube is surrounded by a thickened muscular rim .
The posterior extremity is similarly produced into a short tube with a thickened base , but the tube looks outwards , and its walls are very delicate , and consist of fine fibres like those of the fin of Sagitta .
90 .
The body of the animal consists of two tunics , an inner and an outer* , which surround a wide central respiratory cavity .
Six muscular bands ( t ) , pretty nearly equidistant , gird the inner tunic .
In some specimens a sort of shrivelled tubular process projects on the dorsal surface posteriorly between the two last muscular bands .
Is this the remains of an earlier pedicle of attachment ? ?
91 .
A tubular endostyle ( c ) lies in the dorsal sinus between the first and third muscular bands .
In the ventral sinus a round ganglion ( a ) lies just in front of the third muscular band .
It gives off several long nerves , four of which are especially remarkable , and run diagonally to the anterior and posterior apertures .
There is no auditory sac nor otolithes .
92 .
The branchiae divide the respiratory cavity into an anterior and a posterior chamber .
They are formed by the epipharyngeal and hypopharyngeal ( x ) bands which stretch aross the respiratory cavity , supporting on each side a number of tubular bars ( y ) .
In the upper and lower division of the branchiae , these bars are adherent to the walls of the respiratory cavity , i. e. to the inner tunic , and there their canals open into the lateral sinuses ; but in the middle part of the branchiae their extremities unite and fornl loops without adhering to the inner tunic , merely lying against it .
There is a free passage for the water between the bars , and on each side of the central supporting bands .
The edges of the bars are richly ciliated , and the cilia of their opposite sides move in opposite directions .
Although it appeared quite certain that the canals of the bars communicated with the sinus system , yet no blood-corpuscles could be traced into them .
The branchial bars did not extend so far forward above as below .
In the former case they reach as far as the second muscular band only , in the latter , beyond the first ; seen from above or below , the branchia appeared as an oval plate , with a clear space down its middle and transverse bars on each side .
93 .
The mouth ( g ) opens in the middle of the upper division of the gill , just anterior to the fourth muscular band ; a narrow oesophagus ( h ) leads from it into a two-lobed stomach ( i ) ; from this a narrow intestine passes , and bending a little upwards and then downwards and to the left side , terminates in a papillary ( 1 ) anus .
Just at its bend the intestine gives attachment to three or four small caeca ( s ) , which appear to represent a liver , and a system of transparent anastomosing tubules , similar to that described in Salpa , arises from the stomach and envelopes the intestine in a network .
The heart ( r ) lies above and in front of the mouth .
In structure it resembles that of Salpa .
There are no vessels of any kind , the blood-corpuscles making their way at random among the viscera .
No reversal of the circulation was observed in this Ascidian .
94 .
All the specimens examined possessed only the male generative apparatus , in the shape of a long tubular* testis ( p ) , placed on the right side and below , and opening posteriorly into the respiratory chamber by a papillary elevation ( pt ) just before the penultimate muscular band .
The testis lies quite freely in the sinus , and is bathed by the blood ( fig. 7 ) .
When most fully developed the testis nearly equals the body in length ; but in young specimens it may be not more than one-half to one-third that size .
The young testis is a delicate sac , containing a mass of cilrcular cells , about =th of an inch in diameter , of a pale greenish colour , and flattened .
As development proceeds , these cells assume a redder tint , and become perfect spermatozoa , with elongated cylindrical heads tb of an inch in length , and very delicate , long filiform tails .
95 .
There is a small cavity ( u ) resembling the ciliated fossa of the Salpce , seated upon the anterior face of the singular process of the ventral paris of the respiratory cavity .
This process lies anterior to the first muscular band ; it is somewhat conical and excavated behind .
The two lips of the excavation are thickened and ciliated , and the right lip is continuous on the left side with a ciliated band , which runs up parallel with the first muscular band , passes over to the right side , and running down , becomes eventually lost in the right portion of the base of the conical process .
This would seem to be a rudimentary languet .
A number of small granular masses were always to be seen attached to the inner tunic close to the posterior aperture .
The structure of the branchiae of this Ascidian , the position of the two orifices , and the structure of the testis , all indicate a position for Doliolum intermediate between Salpa and Pyrosoma .
Its apparent unisexuality very likely arises from the ova being developed , and leaving the parent in a younger state than any I examined .
I have elsewhere mentioned the liability to deception in Salpa from a similar cause .
Note.-Since writing the above I have found a short notice of Jppendicularia in MULLER'S Archiv for 1846t , under the name of Vexillaria flabellum .
The de* Very similar to that of Salpa cristata , described as an hepatic organ by MEYwN .
t Bericht iiber einige never Thierformen der Nordsee .
602 * , v fpVy 84jrl.i , ?
: : - ; -I--* _1 .
6 r : ?
ll- ? ? ?
?s ; LI- : '-"Wi-r i ?
IY 'i,3 ' ? ?
; ) 9P .
V 0. .
- ' , .
; ; i hil P---W a 'C " Q:J 4 : ----A 'f Q\\X 9N ? ?
9 I ' jI 'f j'v'6 ii-l ?
ri ; ;:m : I : ; 51 ?
: : : : ?
i Qr ?
; t ; ii : ii:i ?
rl , L:l..- . ?
ii : : : : ; ?
: EIS i ?
-c ?
, -t P:i r.J , i -iR ibTd ?
i 'iu r r..e Y4k : A2 Ch 2 WU 2 ; 9 ?
L^ ':..'/ t Ia K , { _ , ,.C !
,9 'm _ Pz yq^^ui2 vQ-r ( '^ .
' , ,:s : : iit , :i\ _-----i7 3 , : a1 F ; 8 ?
i i u.Ti , 'Ir-..7f MI CCC.i .
9 J/ i/ Y , At- .
i9w .
1 .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ : .
: s. ' ' s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ?
'LIf J4-da p.64At t. At/ .
4 .
L ` / , : ? .
, N ?
i Ifri 3 ?
4i -a'.''Itf i::I.f lJ t.,..e ?
' ' I , 'I , / ?f o ?
, o " V 0 , 1 IFt I. ( el ; 'V 1 , ?
II I : ?
; ?
; I " .
II it Fiji Si2 .
it !
~~~~~~~~~~~~ X,.- ... ^ " ; :^~~~/ . .
9.Sf '-^.x .
; t.S , ,e , ; - , , , Z , , 4 C- , 7 ; 7 , " ?
t i 7 , 1 ; c- " L i ?
i ?
xi i,.--i " yJlc ' + ' ' " ' .
fr -I\a I ' 1. .
" .C .
r* ' i ?
e - ?
/ 1 4 ?
'~IS vC ; %\ .
a A ?
' -Id ( I i I ; ? ?
7i I:.61 -ii ? ? ?
?---- ?
- ?
- ; ? ? ? ?
cs . ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
; - ? ? ? ? ?
,4 ; 2C ; T h1 i2 ? ? ? ?
' " ?
isi ; J ?
, " ?
i : , _ R ? ? ? ?
/ , r. 9 ; &gt; .
-a I -1 .
1I 1-11 rlmo k 1. .
, .
q/ 3 I , .
' ... A ?
/ ' TX iifi .
I -..t i1 1..1 1 ~ ~4 C--r C 1 , ?
, ; , i ?
" i ; 1 !
' ; il fj:i ?
a:ri " ; ? ? ? ?
' i " L- ?
; i ?
'r i ; i ?
- ?
; I -r ? ? ? ? ?
t i ? ? ? ? ?
; ?
i ; r 1 ?
i ; ;i t : , j 1 ?
r ' ; B ?
.k ( 1 '3~~~~~~~~~~~1 '4 ~~~~1 ; 4 ; ~~~~~~~~4 i 't~~~~~~~~~~~~4 44 _-r S C$ i* ' '^ , , ; .K .
S K ?
; ?
K~ z ; = C ) 9R -- .
, , - , 'tlk " r-I ?
Q"''*w ' ... h I ?
i it , t(\ ? ?
1 ' ?
; ; s 1 : . ?
; - ?
.-"FJ ?
9 i ' ?
: . ?
::i : ?
:lt , , yl ?
i , ... , i 111 i. ?
r:i.--k ' " t ?
I : b i. ?
5.i $ " " : h ; l ?
i_l ?
;"i r ? ? ? ?
I"r ?
Ir .
L ? . . ?
:w ?
: 1r r-l " -P ; Y : ? .
I % ?
: : : ?
, ; t , .
e " i-as i hb ?
` r a i ) ( ?
\ : " ? ?
" ' f ?
*X **f.'- , ^I I ?
i T.,. .
' " '* " '.X .
; u x ? . . ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
: ? ? ? ? ?
'i ; ; ?
" , ?
i c* 6 ?
-M r ?
'9 .
: : ?
- : ?
: ?
' ?
B , , ' : ' , * ' " : 'i*'^.E ' %''-1 ; .
; C ' ?
: " , &lt; ?
" z S 39'*..1 ; . .
a.~~~~~~~~u%~~u.~~et I uy , ?
~~~~~~t *.3Wa '3 , , / 9/ i / 9/ 72/ ~.7 .
" ?
_i , p P ?
` ' " ' ? ? ? ?
i : i ' " : ? . ? ?
1 ?
i ? ? ?
?.U i ' ? ? ? ? ? ? .
i " ?
" ' ? ? ? ?
-1 i ?
c ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
: ? . ? .
: . ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
' ? ? ? ?
" ' i " ? ? ? ?
: ?
h ?
a ?
, :"S ?
Si " ' ' ?
" i : .
- ? ? ?
?r ?
" ih J , " Ur " i ?
i _*L ; T ?
I ? ? ? ?
; *t -'J ' 4/ -ti , ; I ` -t ' ' ?
:f ? ? ? ?
; I r.g ii r-a.I I ; , ? ? ? ?
" ?
i " ?
" : ^ .
777/ 5 ' 3/ 67/ 7 I/ 5/ -.7 ' ce*r ? ?
7'4f.77 .
7 .
77 : c ?
" tr ?
- ; ? ? ? ?
- ? ? ? ? ?
; .
" ; C3SX i ?
; ?
, ? ? ?
?.r ? ?
` ? ? ? ?
' ? .
- ?
- , .
x I ?
iis ? ? ? ?
, s:s i.I ? ? ? ? ?
: .
1 ?
i : ?
:t -32 i i ; ih : ii ? . .
1 : I , .
P ; o r : ?
?P i : i:j i i ?
i k. i-.P 41 ' f ?
Q ? ?
: ; I:d Ti ; P.i ? ? ? ? ?
:i ?
" $ ?
P S.t " " ; : ?
' " ; " . ?
- .
; c " ... : ?
1 'I ?
" ' i ? ? ? ? ?
:l , v ? ? ? ?
d , " : - " I ' ?
` ?
" ' scriber , Prof. MULLER , confesses that he does not know in what division of the animal kingdom to place this creature ; and his account of its structure is not a little vague , including little more than its mere external appearance .
He does not seem to have observed anything corresponding to the " Haus " of OTTO .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE XV .
Salpa .
Fig. 1 .
Salpa A. Fig. 2 .
Salpa B. Fig. 3 .
Dorsal view of Salpa A , the muscular bands being omitted .
Fig. 4 .
Dorsal view of Salpa B , the muscular bands being omitted .
Fig. 5 .
Intestinal canal of Salpa A. Fig. 6 .
Intestinal canal of Salpa B. Fig. 7 .
Dorsal view of extremity of Salpa B. Fig. 8 .
Part of the respiratory chamber of Salpa B , showing the foetus suspended .
View from above .
Fig. 9 .
Connection of the gemmiferous tube with the heart .
PLATE XVI .
Salpa .
Fig. 1 .
Young gemmae ( Salpa B ) attached to the gemmiferous tube .
Fig. 2 .
Nuclear end of one of these , showing the ovum and its pedicle or gubernaculum .
Fig. 3 .
Nuclear end of a very young Salpa A , just detached .
Fig. 3f .
Placenta and gemmiferous tube of this enlarged .
Fig. 4 .
Heart , placenta and gemmiferous tube of a young Salpa A , showing the rudimentary condition of the last structure .
Fig. 5 .
Ganglion , otolithic sac and languet .
Fig. 6 .
Young Salpa A , still attached by its placenta in the interior of Salpa B. PLATE XVII .
Pyrosoma .
Fig. 1 .
A single " zoiid , " viewed from the right side .
Fig. 2 .
A single " zooid , " viewed from above .
Fig. 3 .
Part of the branchial network .
Fig. 4 .
The ovum with its pedicle in situ .
Fig. 5 .
Testis and ovisac in situ , both emptied of their contents .
603 Fig. 6 .
Ovum and pedicle .
Fig. 7 .
A young zooid developed by gemmation .
Fig. 8 .
A young zooid separated and enlarged .
Viewed from the ventral side .
Fig. 9 .
Youngest form of gemma observed .
Fig. 10 .
" Ciliated fossa , " with the ganglion and otolithes .
a. Anterior extremity .
b. Posterior extremity .
c. Endostyle .
d. Ganglion and otolithes .
e. Gill band .
f. Languet .
g. Heart .
h. Gemmiferous tube ( single gemma in Pyrosoma ) .
i. Nucleus .
k. Muscular bands .
1 .
Solitary foetus , or young Salpa A. m. Placenta .
n. Sinus running specially to the placenta .
o. Dorsal sinus .
p. Testis .
q. Ovary , or rather ovum .
q ' .
Pedicle .
r. Buccal orifice .
s. Anal orifice .
t. Lobe of the stomach .
u. Tubular system .
v. Branchial bars .
w. " Ciliated sac .
" x. " Ciliated band .
" ea .
Eleoblast .
a. External tunic .
3 .
Internal tunic .
y. Partition of getnmiferous tube .
Z. Cell masses in Pyrosoma .
PLATE XVIII .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 2 " .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 .
Appendiculariafiagellum .
Much magnified .
Still more magnified .
Extremity of the caudal appendage .
Body of Appendicularia from behind .
Individual in which the testis is much enlarged .
Doliolum denticulatum , from the right side .
Doliolum denticulatum , from below .
A portion of the right wall to show the testis in situ .
The " ciliated sac " and the origin of the " ciliated bands " in Doliolum , The intestine and heart , with the commlencement of the branchit .
The letters have throughout the same signification .
a. Ganglion with the auditory vesicle .
e , f. Ciliated bands .
b. Nerve .
g. Mouth .
c. Endostyle .
h. ( Esophagus .
d. Respiratory or anterior aperture .
i. Stomach .
604 k. Intestine .
1 .
Anus .
m. Axis of the caudal appendage .
n. A long membrane of appendage .
o. Bundles of striated muscular fibrils .
p. Testis .
p ' .
Efferent duct of testis .
q. Supposed ovary .
r. Heart .
s. t. U. B. A. x. z. Z. Liver .
Muscular bands .
Ciliated sac .
The body of Appendicularia .
The caudal appendage .
Hypopharyngeal band .
Branchial bars .
The system of tubules embracing the intestine .
PLATE XIX .
The diagrams represent irmaginary sections of the principal types of the Ascidian family .
Without pretending to be strictly accurate , they are sufficiently so to give a just idea of the gradations in structure among the different genera , and of the essential unity of structure which runs through the group .

