Intracranial Ganglion on Oculomotor Nerve in S. canicula .
553 may be a contributory cause of a lessened immunity to the organism of disease such as phthisis .
Our results too confirm the need for caisson workers not to rest during decompression but to take exercise and to breathe deeply so as to secure the escape of nitrogen , which has been dissolved in their body fluid during their work in compressed air .
On the Occurrence of an Intracranial Ganglion upon the Oculomotor Nerve in Scyllimn canicula , with a Suggestion as to its Bearing upon the Question of the Segmental Value of Certain of the Cranial Nerves .
By Geo. E. Nicholls , D.Sc .
, Beit Memorial Fellow ( Zoological Department , King 's College , London ) .
( Communicated by Prof. A. Dendy , F.R.S. Received January 21 , \#151 ; Revised March 1 , 1915 .
) During the study of a number of elasmobranch brains made in connection with my work on Reissner 's fibre , I noticed , in a specimen of Scyllium canicula , a collection of ganglion cells upon a length of nerve lying freely beneath the mid-brain .
This particular brain had been sectioned in the longitudinal vertical plane and the ganglionic mass occurred at a place which corresponded with the level of the third cranial nerve .
Further examination showed that these cells were undoubtedly related to the oculomotor nerve .
They are situated upon it in a scattered group which , beginning at a point about P4 mm. from the superficial origin of the nerve , stretches to its severed end ( roughly 1*6 mm. from its origin ) .
The cells , though only about 15 in number , are moderately large ( averaging 20/ a x 18/ x ) and are apparently unipolar or bipolar .
Their distribution suggested that other cells of the group must have existed distally to the point of severance of the nerve .
Upon the opposite side of the brain the corresponding nerve had been cut away quite close to its superficial origin , when the brain was removed from the cranium .
A second specimen of S. canicula in which some 2 mm. of the third nerve had been left attached to the brain , on either side , showed the ganglion well on both nerves .
554 Dr. G. E. Nicholls .
Intracranial Ganglion upon the This specimen had been sectioned in the transverse plane and is the one from which the text-figure has been drawn .
The cells are seen on either side , Aq .
Syl .
N. Oculomotor Lower part of a Transverse Section through the Brain of Scyllium , taken at the level of the origin of the oculomotor nerves , and showing some of the ganglion cells slightly diagrammatically .
( Outline with camera lucida .
x 14 approx. ) at about the same distance from the superficial origin of the nerve , in a group extending between points roughly T5 mm. and 2 mm. from that origin .
On the one side some 50 odd ganglion cells were counted , while upon the opposite side there were about 70 .
The exact numbers cannot be certainly stated , for it is probable that in some cases a cell may have been reckoned twice , appearing , as they do , each in several adjacent sections .
They were accompanied by smaller cells , the nuclei of which stained much more deeply , the whole forming a quite obvious ganglion .
My remaining series of S.canicula brains , in every case , showed the third nerves cut at a point nearer to the brain than that at which the ganglia might be expected .
Another series , therefore , was cut transversely specially for this investigation , care being taken to remove the brain with as much as possible of the third nerves attached .
The ganglionic masses were found well marked and were composed of cells of the same character and in about the same number as in the case described and figured above .
The discovery of even a small ganglionic mass related to the third cranial Oculomotor Nerve inScyllium canicula .
nerve was so unexpected that I was led to examine other elasmobranch brains of which I had sections , with a view to determining whether the condition in S. canicula was peculiar to that species or whether the ganglion was of normal occurrence but had escaped observation .
The examination was without result , however , for in a number of specimens of Acanthias , Raia , and Rhina I found no trace of ganglion cells upon the third nerve root , but it cannot be asserted that in these species the ganglia are absent , for in all of these brains the third nerve had been severed , it was found , comparatively close to its origin .
A search for these cells upon the third nerve of Amphibia was somewhat more fruitful .
In Rana a cluster of half a dozen large ganglion cells was found upon the nerve on one side of my single specimen .
In R. temand Molge sp. an odd cell or two appeared in the sections of the nerve .
In each case the cells were found at or very near to the severed end , and it is highly probable that still other cells had existed in the distal part of the nerve .
The existence of these ganglia in S. canicula has not , I believe , been recorded hitherto .
This is , perhaps , not surprising , for the head of the adult animal is far too large to be readily cut in its entirety , and , as my own experience illustrates , where a study of the central nervous system is the prime object , brains are likely to be removed from the head by the cutting of the third nerves fairly closely to their superficial origin .
And , in sections of the entire heads of embryos of this species , of several different sizes , which I examined , I was unable to distinguish the future ganglion cells among the numerous cellular elements present in the developing third nerve , although some of my specimens were sufficiently advanced to show the elements of the trigeminal ganglion already fairly well differentiated .
Although I have seen these ganglia in but three specimens of S. canicula I believe that they will prove to be actually of invariable occurrence in this species .
That " degenerated " ganglion cells occur upon the oculomotorius in man has long been known , having been recorded by Thomsen in 1887.* They were said to occur in the adult human subject as patches of altered tissue which , Thomsen stated , were the remains of the encapsulated ganglion cells observed by him in the root of the oculomotor in the new-born child .
Gaskell ( '89 ) , two years later , confirmed the discovery of these degenerated cells in the third nerve of man and recorded the finding of similar cell masses in the root of the fourth and sixth nerves also .
He seems to have assumed that these cells were always merely vestigial structures , but he nevertheless attached considerable importance to the discovery .
On the strength of the transient * Vide Tozer , '12 .
556 Dr. G. E. Nicholls .
Intracranial Ganglion upon the existence of these cells he put forward the hypothesis that " both third and fourth nerves are in themselves complete segmental nerves of the type which Balfour supposes to have been the original type ' when mixed motor and sensory posterior roots were the only roots present ' ; that then owing to some change which occurred during the past history of the vertebrate the sensory parts of these two nerves degenerated and their place was taken by the sensory elements of the fifth nerve .
" Two other early observers , Reissner and Rosenthal , * are also said to have recorded the existence of cells in the root of the third cranial nerve .
According to Sherrington , the former suggested that these cells were connected with the sympathetic system .
Of the occurrence of ( presumably ) actively functional ganglion cells upon the oculomotor root , in numbers comparable to those which I have found in S. canicula , the only record , so far as I can discover , is contained in the paper by Miss Tozer(T2 ) .
This author found ganglion cells in ( or near ) the roots of the third , fourth , and sixth cranial nerves of young Macacus rhesus and of a teleost ( Gadusvirens ) and in the third and sixth roots of the common pigeon .
It would appear , then , that oculomotor gangliaf are present , either as functional structures or as vestiges , in widely separated vertebrate classes .
Since ganglia , other than sympathetic , are known to occur normally only upon " sensory " nerves , or if upon mixed ( motor and sensory ) nerves , then upon the dorsal ( sensory ) root only , a question at once presents itself\#151 ; What is the significance of the occurrence of ganglia upon the oculomotor root ?
In seeking an answer to this question it will be necessary to discuss the generally accepted belief in the homology of the oculomotor nerve with a ventral spinal root in the light of our present knowledge of ( a ) the composition of this nerve and ( b ) its relation , in development , to the ciliary ganglion .
The Comparison of the Oculomotor with a Ventral Spinal Nerve Boot .
That the oculomotor has , of recent years , been accepted by the great majority of authors as a purely motor nerve , composed only of somatic motor components and equivalent simply to the ventral root of a typical segmental nerve is common knowledge .
Heal ( T4 ) , the most recent contributor to this question , has insisted upon the correctness of this interpretation .
He * Vide Sherrington , '94a , p. 254 .
+ These ganglia ( which occur on the roots of the oculomotor just within the brain case ) must not be confused with the ciliary ganglia which have sometimes been referred to as oculomotor ganglia .
The ciliary ganglia , of course , lie in the orbit and , although connected with the oculomotor ( and ophthalmicus profundus ) nerves , are generally recognised as being ganglia properly referred to the autonomic ( sympathetic ) system .
Oculomotor Nerve inScyllium canicula .
concludes* " the evidence of its histogenesis and its central and peripheral relations so strongly support the supposition that it is a somatic motor nerve , as the majority of morphologists have believed , that the acceptance of the latter seems unavoidable .
" While Neal is undoubtedly justified in claiming that this view is that held at the present time by the majority of observers , yet , as he points out , this has not always been the case .
In the past , many morphologists have maintained that the oculomotor is serially homologous with the segmental nerves .
Comparatively recently this earlier view has been supported by Gast ( '09 ) upon embryological grounds .
In arriving at his conclusion , however , Neal appears to be altogether unaware of the light which has been shed upon this question by the results of the experimental work of Sherrington and Tozer .
The Composition of the OculomotorNerve.\#151 ; Sherrington ( '94 ) , as the result of certain experiments upon the eye-muscle nerves , came to the conclusion that the oculomotor might prove to be " sensori-motor " ( afferent-efferent ) .
He repeated and laid stress upon this suggestion in a later paper ( '97 ) .
Herrick ( '99 , p. 230 ) noted that medullated nerve fibres of two kinds were to be recognised in the oculomotor nerve of a bony fish He remarked that muscle-spindles were said not to occur in the eye-muscles but suggested that the more slender nerve fibres , whose origin he failed to determine , might , nevertheless , form part of a sensory mechanism analogous with muscle-spindles .
Recently the existence of muscle-spindles in the extrinsic eye-muscles has been demonstrated by Sherrington and Tozer ( TO ) .
Not only so , but the related spindle nerves were stated to pass into the central nervous system by way of the oculomotor .
This , upon the generally accepted interpretation of the oculomotor nerve as merely a ventral root , is altogether anomalous , for the nerve fibres from muscle-spindles in all other muscles are derived from ganglion cells of the dorsal spinal ganglia and thus are connected with the central nervous system only by way of the dorsal ( posterior ) nerve roots .
The experimental work carried out by Miss Tozer ( T2 ) upon showed that lesion of the third nerve peripheral to the ganglion cells ( .
, at a point between the ganglion cells and the muscle-spindles ) resulted in the alteration of the ganglion cells and the complete degeneration of the muscle-spindles ; whereas , when the lesion was effected centrally to the ganglion , somef at least of the muscle-spindles persisted .
* Op. cit. , p. 105 .
t It should be noted that while only a few muscle-spindles are said to have persisted , in Macacus only a few ganglion cells are normally present .
558 Dr. G. E. Nicholls .
Intracranial Ganglion upon the This is not only definite confirmation of Sherrington 's suggestion that the third nerve is sensori-motor , but it also points to a connection between these ganglionic cells and afferent fibres from sensory end-organs ( the muscle-spindles ) .
It thus affords evidence that these cells are of a type normally occurring elsewhere only upon the dorsal roots of segmental nerves .
In summing up , Miss Tozer remarks* " The great variation in the number of these cells renders an explanation of their nature and function at present impossible .
The cells in Gadus are possibly sufficiently numerous to represent the source of the afferent fibres ... .
but in Mctcacus the number of these cells seems to be insufficient to do this .
" If the latter part of the statement is correct , some of the afferent fibres presumably have an intracerebral origin .
Since the oculomotor nuclei are in close relation to several sensory centres through the mediation of the fasciculus longitudinalis , there is nothing improbable in the suggestion that some of the afferent fibres may pass directly , by the fasciculus longitudinalis , to one of these centres .
The Relation , in Development , of the Ciliary Ganglion to the Oculomotor.\#151 ; Carpenter ( '06 , p. 192 ) has demonstrated that while , in the embryo chick , , the ciliary ganglion arises , in part , from cells which have migrated from the ophthalmicus profundus ganglion , it is also , to some extent , derived from neuroblasts which pass peripherally along the fibres of the oculomotor nerve to the ciliary ganglion .
In view of this statement I was , at first , inclined to believe that the oculomotor ganglia which I had observed were merely cell masses destined primarily for the sympathetic system but which had been arrested at this place in their transit to the ciliary ganglion .
Such an explanation , however , merely introduces another difficulty , viz. , the apparently anomalous origin of the ciliary ganglion .
In a typical segmental nerve , sympathetic ganglia are generally believed to arise by the migration of neuroblasts from the spinal ganglion upon the dorsal root.f The alternative view that sympathetic ganglia arise , either wholly or in part , by the migration of medullary cells along a ventral nerve root has met with little acceptance .
The former view is that favoured by Neal .
In an earlier work , that author maintained ( '03 ) that , although the cells in the anlagen of the spinal ventral roots had a medullary origin , yet these had nothing to do with the formation of neuraxons .
They are differentiated solely into neurilemma elements .
In his recent work he notes ( T4 , p. 54 ) that this fact has never been called in question but that , on the contrary , it has been confirmed by several subsequent workers .
Concerning Carpenter 's statement that neuroblasts pass along the oculo* Op. cit. , p. xvi .
t Cf .
Johnston , '07 , p. 206 .
Oculomotor Nerve in ScyIlium canicula .
559 motor to the ciliary ganglion , Neal says ( '14 , p. 73 ) " If this conclusion be confirmed\#151 ; and this has been done by Belogolowy\#151 ; it appears that at least some of the medullary cells in the oculomotorius anlage are neuroblastic .
" Belogolowy ( '10 ) apparently only infers , however , that the cells of medullary origin in the anlage of the oculomotorius are those which later enter the ciliary ganglion .
Gast ( '09 ) believes that , in the embryo , there exists a " root-ganglion " upon the oculomotor nerve , the cells of which are of medullary origin .
Concerning this , Neal points out the difficulty of recognising with certainty a nerve cell among the mass of cellular elements in the anlage of the nerve , a difficulty to which I have already alluded.* Moreover , many of these cells of medullary origin are known to become altered later into neurilemma elements , as do the similar cells in spinal nerves .
Carpenter has observed all stages in the differentiation of such medullary cells into neurilemma , in the chick .
Neal records that he , too , has seen such a transformation , in embryo Squalus .
His statement ( '14 , p. 74 ) is , . .
in Squalus , it is possible to demonstrate that a large number , if not all , of the cells present in the anlage of the oculomotor become differentiated as neurilemma cells .
" In this connection Neal reviews the evidence bearing upon the question : To what extent , if at all , do emigrating medullary elements contribute to the formation of the sympathetic ganglia related to spinal nerves ?
The work of Kuntz( 'll ) ( which Neal remarks is " the latest presentation of the case in favour of the medullary origin of some of the elements of the sympathetic " ) comes in for somewhat severe criticism .
Neal concludes that convincing evidence " that cells of somatic motor nerve anlagen in Squalus . . .
migrate into the anlagen of the sympathetic is wanting .
The assertions of Kuntz in this connection appear quite unconvincing .
" As the result of his own observations Neal expresses the opinion ( '14 , p. 57 ) that " the evidence . . .
seems rather to favour the view that the sympathetic anlagen receive their cellular elements largely , if not exclusively , from the sensory ganglia , as inferred by investigators upon all classes of vertebrates from Schenck and Birdsall to Held and Marcus .
" Thus , in contributing to the formation of the sympathetic ( ciliary ) anlage the oculomotor would , as a ventral root , appear to be altogether exceptional .
In the anlage of the oculomotorius , however , there are present cells which are derived from the neural crest .
The statement that free cell migration takes place from the mesocephalic ganglionic mass towards the oculomotor anlage has been made by numerous * Videp .
555 , supra .
560 Dr. G. E. Nicholls .
Intracranial Ganglion upon the observers .
Recently Carpenter ( '06 ) , Gast('09 ) , and Belogolowy ( 10 ) have confirmed this , but the two latter authors suppose that these migrant neural crest cells simply become neurilemma and supporting cells in the oculomotor root .
Johnston ( '05 , p. 244 ) believed that the cells of the ciliary ganglion arose from a part of the neural crest distinct from that which gave rise to the profundus ganglion .
Neal denies that this is true for but makes a very interesting statement concerning the origin of the ciliary ganglion in that form .
" . . .
the first clusters of cells associated with the anlagen of these nerves ( the oculomotor and the trochlear ) are derived from the neural crest .
These cell clusters , in their relations and\#151 ; in the case of the ciliary_ in their adult structure , appear to be sympathetic .
Their derivation from the neural crest favours the inference that the sympathetic anlagen of the trunk have a similar origin " ( T4 , pp. 58-59 ) .
From all of which , indefinite and conflicting as it appears , three facts emerge:\#151 ; ( i ) that , in the anlage of the oculomotor , cells are found derived by migration ( a)from the medulla , and ( ) from the neural crest ; ( ii ) that certain of these cells in the oculomotor anlage migrate into the anlage of the ciliary ganglion , precisely as do cells from a typical dorsal ganglion into a typical sympathetic ganglion ; ( iii ) that the weight of evidence appears to be against the belief that cells of medullary origin contribute to the formation of sympathetic ganglia .
The inference is that the cells which pass along the oculomotor to the ciliary ganglion must have been derived , in the first instance , from the neural crest .
The Comparison of the Oculomotor with a Complete Segmental Nerve .
In view of what has been said it will be obvious that , in certain particulars , the peripheral relations of the oculomotor are not exactly those of a ventral root .
Nor does it appear that the histogenesis of this root ( in its relation to the neural crest and the ciliary ganglion ) corresponds , in every particular , with that of a spinal ventral root .
In attempting to arrive at a correct interpretation of the homology of the oculomotor we must take into account the following facts:\#151 ; ( i ) that this nerve is undoubtedly " afferent-efferent " ; some or all of its afferent fibres being related to sensory end-organs ( muscle-spindles ) ; ( ii ) that , upon its root , in some forms , occurs a ganglion or scattered ganglion cells ; Oculomotor Nerve in Scyllium canicula .
( iii ) that , in such forms it is probable that the afferent fibres are wholly , or in part , derived from these ganglion cells ; ( iv ) that , in development , ganglion cells from the neural crest enter into association with the anlage of the oculomotor , apparently establishing a transient dorsal root ; ( v ) that , in development , certain ganglion cells migrate peripherally along the fibres of this nerve to the ( sympathetic ) ciliary ganglion , such cells having probably arisen primarily from the neural crest .
Xow in a typical segmental nerve ( in the general acceptance of the term ) we find a dorsal root bearing a ganglion and a ventral root without ganglion cells .
These roots unite at , or just peripheral to , the ganglion .
From the ganglion , or from the common nerve distal to the ganglion , there arises a branch which enters a ganglion of the autonomic nervous system .
The cells of this latter ganglion are derived predominantly , if not exclusively , in embryonic life , from cells which migrate from the spinal ganglion situated upon the dorsal root of the related segmental nerve .
The nerve fibres of the dorsal root are , in general , derived from the cells of its dorsal ganglion and are described as afferent ( somatic and visceral sensory ) fibres , transmitting centripetal impulses .
The nerve fibres of the ventral root are of intraspinal origin ( arising from the ventral and lateral cornua of the spinal cord ) , and are efferent ( motor ) , transmitting only centrifugal impulses .
In a comparison of the condition observed in the oculomotor with that defined as typical for a segmental nerve we cannot but be struck with the fact that the oculomotor appears to combine most of the features of dorsal and ventral roots of the typical segmental nerve .
That it may lack certain nerve components , normally present in a typical segmental nerve , is not denied , nor is a distinct dorsal root recognisable .
On the other hand it presents features altogether unknown in any typical segmental ventral nerve root .
The Absence of Certain Components from the Oculomotor.\#151 ; The suggestion that there has occurred in this nerve a cenogenetic atrophy of certain components is neither new nor improbable .
Indeed , Johnston has pointed out ( '07 , pp. 151-153 ) that , in the nerves of that region of the head occupied by the lateral eyes , the absence of the general cutaneous component of the sensory system might reasonably be expected .
Similar reasoning might connect the absence of visceral sensory components with a possible disappearance of visceral tissue in the region of the more anterior somites .
With the disappearance of these nerve elements from the nerves of the segments occupied ( or encroached upon ) by the lateral eyes and the serially 562 Dr. G. E. Nicholls .
Intracranial Ganglion upon the following " accessory optic vesicles , " the dorsal roots would undergo considerable diminution in size and importance .
The dorsal ganglia , from which most of the remaining afferent fibres would have arisen , would consist of comparatively few cells ( the large contingents of cells , normally present in ganglia upon nerves supplying regions of less specialisation , being altogether wanting ) .
Gast has stated that a transient dorsal root , related to the oculomotor , appears in development , and considers that this and other eye-muscle nerves represent segmental nerves from which the sensory elements have altogether disappeared .
Neal , dissenting entirely from Gast 's speculation , remarks ( T4 , p. 105 ) : " The supposed demonstration of the participation of sensory elements in the genesis of the oculomotor is one that would satisfy only on the basis of a strong presumption in its favour .
" I would suggest that the actual occurrence , in Macacus rhesus , Columba and canicula , of numerous ganglion cells in the oculomotor roots , apparentlv related to afferent nerve fibres connected with sensory end-organs , supplies the " strong presumption " which Neal requires .
Neal continues , " The position of the nidulus of the oculomotor and its peripheral distribution create a strong presumption against the assumption .
Spindle-shaped cells lying in the mesenchyma between the profundus ganglion and the oculomotor nerve are not necessarily neuroblasts .
Spindle-shaped cells may be found almost anywhere in the mesenchyma .
Even if it be admitted that the evidence that these cells are in the process of migration towards the oculomotor anlage is convincing , Gast does not know their fate .
They may form neurilemma or they may enter the sympathetic or what-not .
" Is it not reasonable to suppose that the cells of the oculomotor ganglion may represent some of the sensory elements which take part , according to Gast , in the formation of the oculomotor anlage ?
If others of these cells migrating to the oculomotor should subsequently " enter the sympathetic " as Neal suggests , it would strengthen rather than weaken the case for regarding the oculomotor as a segmental nerve .
Neal himself states ( T4 , p. 57 ) that neural crest cells do come into connection with the oculomotor anlage and do apparently , amongst other destinations , arrive ultimately at the sympathetic ( ciliary ) anlage .
Indeed , Neal makes use of this fact to support his contention that spinal sympathetic ganglia have an origin from dorsal spinal ganglia , by analogy with this development of the ciliary ganglion .
The Displacement of Dorsal Boots.\#151 ; The dorsal roots of cranial nerves practically always shift ventrally from their primary position , during the Oculomotor Nerve inScyllium canicula .
563 course of development .
This ventral dislocation may easily have been carried to a greater length in the case of a greatly reduced oculomotor dorsal root and have resulted in a confluence of both dorsal and ventral roots into a single structure .
The Structure of the Oculomotor unlike Ventral Spinal Roots.\#151 ; The existence in the oculomotor of sensory fibres ( related to muscle-spindles ) derived in part , if not entirely , from ganglion cells upon the root of the nerve is absolutely incompatible with the interpretation of the oculomotor as homologous with a ventral spinal nerve root .
That some of the afferent fibres may have ( as Tozer implies ) an intracerebral origin does not affect the case .
Sherrington ( '97a , p. 210 ) states that , in mammals , none of the fibres of dorsal ( posterior ) spinal roots have an intraspinal origin .
For many vertebrates , other than mammals , however , it appears to be established that afferent fibres with an intraspinal origin do exist .
Thus the possible occurrence of afferent fibres of intracerebral origin in the oculomotor does not lessen the resemblance of this nerve to a true segmental nerve .
What is of the utmost importance is the indisputable fact that afferent fibres enter the brain by the root of the third nerve .
Of the spinal or typical segmental nerves Tooth concludes ( '92 , p. 783 ) : " The posterior roots are the only points of entrance of sensory , or , more broadly , centripetal impressions .
" The explanation which appears to be most in agreement with the facts is that the oculomotor is not correctly viewed as the equivalent of a ventral root only .
Father we must accept it as the homologue of a complete segmental nerve , containing elements of both dorsal and ventral roots , although some of these components have apparently become obsolete , and the distinction of the originally separate dorsal and ventral roots has disappeared .
Against this hypothesis , which , it should be noted , is not quite identical with that put forward by Gaskell and earlier observers , three objections may be raised .
Equally with that earlier view it is opposed to the generally accepted interpretation of the ramus ophthalmicus profundus as the dorsal nerve root of the oculomotor neuromere .
In the first place , then , it may be urged that , in ontogeny , the oculomotor and profundus nerves are very intimately related , and that the connection of the latter nerve and the neuromere of the oculomotor ( v , according to Johnston ) is only lost relatively late in development , when the profundus acquires a new connection with the brain ( in neuromere vii ) through the mediation of the trigeminal root .
Indeed , the ramus profundus retains its relation to the third nerve , throughout life , by the ciliary nerve ( radix eiliaris longus ) and ganglion .
VOL. lxxxviii.\#151 ; b. 2 x 564 Dr. G. E. Nicholls .
Intracranial Ganglion upon the It seems to me that the only inference which can safely be drawn from the observed shifting of the ophthalmicus profundus is that its change of relations from the third nerve to the fifth may recapitulate a change which took place comparatively late in the history of the development of the vertebrate head .
It does not , however , justify the assertion that the relation of the ophthalmicus profundus to the third nerve was necessarily primary .
The mesocephalic neural crest has a considerable antero-posterior extension and other connections between the neural crest and the oculomotor have been observed , anterior to that existing between this nerve and the ophthalmicus profundus .
That the trigeminus , the ophthalmicus profundus , the eye-muscle nerves , and the nervus thalamicus , should be found related and more or less fused , perhaps shifted , or even become obsolete , is little to be wondered at , occurring as they do in a region where shifting and obliteration of myotomes has , admittedly , been such a marked feature .
Nor is it surprising that there remains little or no evidence , in ontogeny , of the primary arrangement in serial independence of the nerves of this region , for the changes which took place in connection with the development of the eye must have been some of the very earliest to disturb the serial arrangement of the nerves .
In the nerves of the branchial region we have , apparently , a nearly parallel case .
There , although we find the several branchial nerves connected from the earliest developmental stages , yet it is generally accepted that these nerves were primarily independent and serially distinct .
It is assumed that their displacement and fusion was a feature acquired so early in the development of the vertebrate head that the prior condition no longer occurs in an abbreviated ontogeny .
Bearing upon this hypothesis that the ophthalmicus profundus does not represent the dorsal root of a segmental nerve to which the oculomotor would stand merely in the relation of a ventral root , an interesting point may be noted .
In certain elasmobranchs , of which is one , the ophthalmicus profundus is said to be little developed* and in the adult to be absent.f It is precisely in Scyllium , where the oculomotor is found retaining its ganglion , that the encroachment of the ophthalmicus profundus is thus least in evidence .
As a further objection , the connection of the ciliary ganglion with both the oculomotor and the ophthalmicus profundus nerves might be adduced , on the assumption that this is homologous with the relation , in the spinal region , of * Sedgwick , '05 , p. 135 .
t Parker and Haswell , TO , vol. 2 , p. 161 , footnote .
Oculomotor Nei 've inScyllium canicula , 565 a sympathetic ganglion to both the ventral and dorsal roots of its related spinal nerve .
Neal , discussing the question of the relation of the oculomotorius to the ramus profundus , decides ( '14 , p. 102 ) , " there appears to be no insuperable objection to the view that the ophthalmicus profundus is serially homologous with spinal somatic sensory nerves .
" While this is readily conceded , it falls short of establishing that the ramus profundus necessarily represents the sensory root in the oculomotor neuromere .
Neal continues : " The comparison of the profundus nerve with spinal somatic sensory nerves is still further strengthened by the evidence of the relations with the ciliary ganglion , which have been found above to be those of a somatic motor nerve to a sympathetic ganglion .
The facts which prove the sympathetic character of the ciliary anlage have already been stated above and need no restatement .
The ciliary ganglion of Squalus is to be regarded as partly , if not exclusively , a sympathetic ganglion .
So that in its relations with a sympathetic ganglion the oculomotor forms no exception in the series of morphologically similar somatic motor nerves .
" From what we know of the development of the ciliary ganglion , however , this relation may , quite as reasonably , be interpreted upon the hypothesis of the segmental distinctness of the two nerves .
In accordance with which , 1 suggest that the ciliary ganglion is to be regarded as the product of the fusion of sympathetic ganglia related to at least two segmentally distinct cranial nerves .
Such a condition is paralleled in the spinal region in the cervical ganglia , for example .
Even if we admit the correctness of Krause 's view that the ciliary ganglion has a double nature ( containing , in addition to its sympathetic elements , the bipolar cells of a cerebro-spinal ganglion ) , the comparison of the oculomotor nerve with a typical segmental nerve would not be affected .
We should merely recognise that certain cells , migrating to the ciliary ganglion along the fibres of the oculomotor and ophthalmicus nerves , which were hitherto supposed to be simply sympathetic cells , were , in fact , sensory cells .
It may well be that the ciliary ganglion is not strictly homologous in all species .
The oculomotor ganglion has been observed in but comparatively few species , and , while its presence will probably be revealed by further investigation in many other forms , yet it is scarcely credible that it can have been completely overlooked in many types which have been carefully studied .
In such forms , then , the cells of the oculomotor ganglion may have migrated into the proximity of , or even into actual fusion with , the ciliary ganglion , which would thus have the double character claimed for it by Krause .
On the other hand , in those species in which a distinct oculomotor 2x2 566 Dr. G. E. Nicholls .
Intracranial Ganglion upon the ganglion persists , the ciliary ganglion may prove to be composed strictly of sympathetic elements .
Herein , perhaps , lies an explanation of the contradictory observations which have been recorded , and the diverse opinions expressed in the controversies concerning both the nature of the ciliary ganglion and the segmental value of the oculomotor nerve .
The fact that ganglion cells are known to occur upon ventral spinal roots , constantly in the cat , * and occasionally in man and monkey , must not be overlooked .
These cells are not , however , associated with afferent fibres !
nor related to sensorial end-organs .
What their nature and function may be has not yet been explained , but they are clearly not comparable with the cells found in the roots of the eye-muscle nerves .
Neal ( T4 , p. 58 ) remarks , in connection with the migration of medullary cells into the oculomotor and trochlear nerves , that a similar migration is observed in the case of the abducens which has no related sympathetic anlage , and that in this case these cells can have no destination other than the neurilemma .
In the specimens which I have examined , ganglion cells were apparently absent from the roots of the fourth and sixth nerves .
From the results obtained by Gaskell , Sherrington and Tozer , however , it would seem that both of these nerves also are sensori-motor , and have ganglion cells upon their roots in some species .
In the case of the trochlear nerve , Neal points out that , in development , it is closely associated with fragments of the neural crest and is related to a transient sympathetic ganglion .
The abducens undergoes considerable dislocation , and has lost all trace of any relation to a sympathetic ganglion anlage , if such ever existed .
Nor has any connection between this nerve and the neural crest been recorded .
Nevertheless , it would seem that the arguments adduced in favour of the segmental value of the oculomotor would apply , in the main , to all the eye-muscle nerves , making allowance for the progressively greater reduction and displacement which has occurred in the two more posterior nerves .
In conclusion , I would submit that the occurrence in the oculomotor of afferent nerve fibres ( conducting centripetally impulses arising in sensorial end-organs ) , and of ganglion cells upon the root of the nerve almost certainly related to these afferent fibres , taken in conjunction with the part which this nerve plays in the development of the ciliary ganglion , constitutes evidence in favour of the complete segmental character of the nerve too important to be ignored .
Neal , who upholds a view opposed to this , says * Schafer , '80 , p. 348 .
t Sherrington , '94\#171 ; .
Oculomotor Nerve in Scyllium canicula .
that , in his opinion , " the demonstration of the serial homology of head and trunk metameres depends largely upon the proof of the resemblance of eye-muscle and spinal somatic motor nerves .
" It seems to me that the demonstration of the resemblance of the oculomotor ( and other eye-muscle nerves ) to a complete spinal nerve ( including sensory as well as motor roots ) would have even greater value in establishing the segmental character of the head metameres .
Thus , while I dissent from Neal 's statement just quoted , I am altogether in accord with his further statement concerning the eye-muscle nerves that " failure to convince morphologists of their meristic homology with spinal nerves would tend to undermine the foundations of the traditional conception of the head .
" I desire to take this opportunity to acknowledge my indebtedness to Prof. Dendy for valuable advice and criticism , and to Profs .
Elliot Smith and J. P. Hill for kindly directing my attention to the literature of the subject .
LITERATURE .
TO , Belogolowy , G. , 'Zur Entwicklung der Kopfnerven der Vogel , ' Moscow , 1910 .
'06 , Carpenter , F. W. , " The Development of the Oculomotor Nerve , the Ciliary Ganglion , and the Abducent Nerve in the Chick , " ' Bull .
Mus. Comp. Zool. , ' Harvard , 1906 , No. 172 .
'89 , Gaskell , W. H. , " On the Relation between the Structure , Function , Distribution , and Origin of the Cranial Nerves ; together with a Theory of the Origin of the Nervous System of Vertebrates , " ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 10 ( 1889 ) .
'09 , Gast , R. , ' Die Entwicklung des Oculomotorius und seiner Ganglien bei Selachier-embryonen , " ' Mitth .
Zool. Stat. Neap .
, ' vol. 19 ( 1909 ) .
'99 , Herrick , C. J. , " The Cranial and First Spinal Nerves in Menidia , " ' Journ. Comp. Neur .
, ' vol. 9 ( 1899 ) .
'03 , Johnston , J. B. , " The Morphology of the Vertebrate Head from the Viewpoint of the Functional Divisions of the Nervous System , " 'Journ .
Comp. Neur .
, 'vol .
15 ( 1905 ) .
'07 , Johnston , J. B. , ' The Nervous System of Vertebrates , ' London , 1907 .
'll , Kuntz , A. , " The Development of the Sympathetic Nervous System in Certain Fishes , 'Journ .
Comp. Neur .
, ' vol. 21 ( 1911 ) .
'03 , Neal , H. V. , " The Development of Ventral Nerves in Selachii , " 'Mark Anniv .
Vol. , 1903 .
T4 , Neal , H. V. , " The Morphology of the Eye Muscle Nerves , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, ' vol. 25 ( 1914 ) .
'80 , Schafer , E. A. , " Note on the Occurrence of Ganglion Cells in the Anterior Roots of the Cat 's Spinal Nerves , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 31 ( 1880 ) .
'05 , Sedgwick , A. , ' Student 's Text-book of Zoology , ' vol. 2 , London , 1903 .
'94 , Sherrington , C. S. , " On the Anatomical Constitution of the Nerves of Muscles , " 'Physiol .
Soc. Proc. , ' June 23 , 1894 , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 17 .
'94a , Sherrington , C. S. , " On the Anatomical Constitution of the Nerves of Skeletal Muscles ; with Remarks on Recurrent Nerves in the Ventral Spinal Nerve Root , " 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 17 ( 1894 ) .
568 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
'97 , Sherrington , C. S. , " Further Note on the Sensory Nerves of Muscles , " ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 ( 1897 ) .
'97\#171 ; , Sherrington , C. S. , " On the Question whether any Fibres of the Mammalian Dorsal ( Afferent ) Spinal Root are of Intraspinal Origin , " ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 21 ( 1897 ) .
'10 , Sherrington , C. S. , and Tozer , F. M. , " Receptors and Afferents of the Illrd , IYtli , and Yltli Cranial Nerves , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 82 ( 1910 ) .
'92 , Tooth , H. H. , " On the Relation of the Posterior Root to the Posterior Horn in the Medulla and Cord , " ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 13 ( 1892 ) . !
10 , Tozer , F. M. See Sherrington and Tozer .
'12 , Tozer , F. M. , " On the Presence of Ganglion Cells in the Roots of Third , Fourth , and Sixth Cranial Nerves , " 'Physiol .
Soc. Proc. , ' July 27 , 1912 , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 45 .
The Osmotic Balance of Skeletal Muscle .
By Dorothy Jordan Lloyd .
( Communicated by W. B. Hardy , F.R.S. Received February 24 , 1915 .
) Fletcher was the first to follow continuously , for any considerable length of time , the change in weight of a muscle immersed in a hypotonic solution.* He found that the muscle at first increased in weight and then decreased .
In isotonic solution the muscle " neither gains nor loses weight .
" This amounts to a definition of an isotonic solution .
The changes in weight of the gastrocnemius or sartorius , the muscles used by Fletcher , are slow , owing to the low value of the ratio of surface to volume .
Very early in this work therefore it was decided to use a thin flat muscle sheet .
The sternocutaneous muscle of the frog was fixed upon .
It reaches its maximal intake from a hypotonic solution in from 5 to 20 minutes according to the concentration of the solution and the state of the muscle .
In the case of so small a muscle it is possible that all the fibres are nearly in the same state at the same time .
This cannot be the case with larger muscles .
The central fibres of , for instance , the sartorius may be irritable whilst the external fibres are in water rigor .
Complex physical and physiological reactions between the fibres must occur and complicate the problem .
An obvious disadvantage of a muscle with a large surface is the magnitude of the error in weight due to variation in the quantity of moisture adherent to the surface .
The surface was always dried quickly by filter-paper before weighing , and the smoothness of the curves of variation ot * ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 30 , p. 414 ( 1904 ) .

