[ 875 .
] On certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
349 vas broken up and disappeared , leaving a continuous channelled-space spectrum .
These experiments , made at the Royal Mint , were often prolonged for nany hours consecutively .
They involved much furnace-work of a pecu-iarly trying nature ; and we have much pleasure in acknowledging he assistance we received from Mr. Edward Rigg , one of the assistant issayers , who conducted many of the tedious manipulations with great skill and patience .
We should also mention that the care exercised by Joseph Grroves , senior fireman , in the preparation of the furnace and the ime-moulds , contributed in no small measure to the success of the experiments .
It appears to us that these experiments , conducted at the high temperature of the oxyhydrogen flame , go far to support the conclusions which were drawn from the experiments at a lower temperature .
First , in passing from the liquid to the most perfect gaseous state , vapours are composed of molecules of different orders of complexity ; and second , this complexity is diminished by the dissociating action of heat , each molecular simplification being marked by a distinctive spectrum .
There is also an intimate connexion between the facility with which the final stage is reached , the group to which the element belongs , and the place which it occupies in the solar atmosphere .
III .
" On the Liquation , Fusibility , and Density of certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
" By W. Chandler Roberts , Chemist of the Mint .
Communicated by Dr. Percy , F.R.S. Received March 11 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that the most remarkable physical property of silver-copper alloys is a molecular mobility , in virtue of which certain combinations of the constituents of a molten alloy become segregated from the mass , the homogeneous character of which is thereby destroyed .
These irregularities of composition have long been known , and reference is made to them in the works of Lazarus Erckem ( 1650 ) and of Jars ( 1774 ) .
A very complete memoir was published in 1852 by Levol , who did much towards ascertaining the nature and defining the limits of this molecular mobility .
He discovered the important fact that an alloy containing 71*89 per cent , of silver is uniform in composition .
Its chemical formula ( Ag3 Cu2 ) and peculiar structure led him to conclude that all other alloys are mixtures of this , with excess of either metal .
The electric conductivity of these alloys was studied in 1860 by Mat-thiessen , who doubte 'd the accuracy of Levol 's theory , and viewed them as " mechanical mixtures of allotropic modifications of the two metals in each other .
" On certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
[ Mar. 18 , The author then described the experiments he made with a view to determine the melting-points of a series of these alloys .
He adopted Deville 's determination of the boiling-point of zinc ( 1040 ' C.)as the basis of the inquiry , and ascertained , by the method of mixtures , the mean specific heat of a mass of wrought iron between 0 ' C. and the melting-point of silver , which , as Becquerel showed , is the same as the boiling-point of zinc .
The mean of three experiments , which were closely in accordance , gave O'15693 as the specific heat ; and it should be pointed out that this number includes and neutralizes several errors which would affect the accuracy of the subsequent determinations .
The melting-points of several alloys were then determined by plunging an iron cylinder into them and transferring the iron to a calorimeter .
These melting-points varied from 840 ' C. to 1330 ' C. , or through a range of 490 ' C. The alloys which occupy the lowest portion of the curve contain from 60 to 70 per cent , of silver .
The results are interesting , as they show that the curves of fusibility and electric conductivity are very similar .
The author states that , in studying the phenomena of liquation , the alloys were cast in red-hot moulds of firebrick in which the metal ( about 50 oz. ) could be slowly and uniformly cooled .
The results showed that the homogeneity of Levol 's alloy is slightly disturbed by this method of casting ; and , on the other hand , that alloys which contain more than 71*89 per cent , of silver hardly show signs of rearrangement when the solidification is gradually effected .
Two alloys were examined , which contained 63 and 33*3 per cent , of silver respectively .
Both were found to be far from homogeneous .
In the case of the former the arrangement was influenced by gravity , the base of the casting being rich in silver .
The density of pure silver and of Levol 's homogeneous alloy while in the fluid state were then determined by the method described by Mr. Robert Mallet* , the metals being cast in conical vessels of wrought iron .
The results obtained were as follows:\#151 ; Density fluid .
Density solid .
Pure silver ... ... ... ... ... ... 9*4612 10*57 Levol 's alloy ... ... ... ... ... .
9*0554 9*9045 In the case of silver , the mean linear expansion deduced from this change of density is *00003721 per 1 ' C. , which is nearly double the coefficient at temperatures below 100 ' C. The Society then adiourned over the Easter Recess , to Thursday , April 8 .
* Vide snprh , p. 209 .

