]\gt ; Distribution of in the Earth 's Crnst .
325 .
bay possibly be sanidine .
It is often roundsd or broken in outline , always greatly cracked , and contains many inclusions of a pale brown glass .
One grain , indeed , consists very of glass , in which the crystalline parts are , so to say , embedded .
This suggests that the minelal has been melted down in situ along the lines of fracture , rather than that it has incorporated the glass in crystallising .
There are occasional cavities in the felspar , with bubbles varying in their relative size , which do not move .
Grains ( 5 of quartz , as observed by Tschermak ' Mineral .
Mittheil ocks fuvergne , Germany , Hungary , comi bndicated.amed aandesiteProvidence Indes , ifferS Ydown tccur ipecimen.pecimens brought bavre ftreams 1 .
" " On the of Strain in the Crust resulting from Secular Cooling , with } ) ecial Reference the Growth of Continents and the Formation of Mountain-chains.\ldquo ; By CHARLES DAVISON , M.A. , Mathematical Master at King hdward 's School , rmingham .
by Prof. T. G. BONNEY , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Beceived Apri17 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is founded on\mdash ; 1 .
Sir W. Thomson 's and Professor G. H. 's researches on the rigidity of the earth .
2 .
Sir W. Thomson 's investigation on the secular cooling of the earth .
3 .
The contraction theory of mountain formation .
I. The Distribution of Strain the Earth 's Crust resulting from Secular Cooling .
The following problem is solved : globe , of radius , is surrounded by a number of concentric spherical shells , called , of thickness . . .
respectively .
The globe remaining at its initial temperature , the shell is cooled by , the shell by , in the same time , and so on .
The linear coefficient of expansion being , and the same for all the sbells , it is reqnired to find the distribution of strain resulting from this method of cooling .
An expression is found giving the change of radius of the inner surface of any shell .
Supposing all the shells to be of equal thick .
( 1 .
) .
i.e. , if the shells be infinitely thin , to being proportional to the rate of of any shell .
If this exf'ression be positive for any shell , the shell is stretched ; if negative , it is crushed or folded .
To apply this problem to the case of the earth , the law of cooling taken is that which follows from Sir W. Thomson 's solu , in his memoir on the secular cooling of the earth .
The expression in the form ( 2 ) proves unserviceable , therefore the expression ( 1 ) is made use of as follows:\mdash ; Taking the time since solidification provisionally at 174,240,000 years , it is shown that the rate of is practically insensible at a depth of 400 miles .
The radius of a sphere equal to the earfh in volume being about 3959 miles , the earth is supposed to be constibuted as follows : central globe , 3559 miles in radius , at the initial temperature of the earth , which as yet has not sensibly cooled , surrounded by 400 ooncentric spherical shells , each ) mile in thickness , the rate of cooling in each shell being uniform throughout , and equal to its value at the out ] .
surface at that shell .
results of the calculation are shown by the curve in the fignre accompan ing the and the following concIusions are deduced , taking the time since coDsolidation ally at 174 , years :\mdash ; 1 .
by lateral pressure takes place only to a certain depth ( about five miles ) below the earth 's surface , and below this depth changes to stretching by lateral tension .
2 .
Stretching by lateral tension , inappreciable below a depth of miles , increases from that depth towards the surface ; it is greatest at a depth of 72 miles ( i.e. , just below the depth at which the of cooling is greatesb ) ; after this it decreases , and vanishes at a depth of about five miles .
3 .
Folding by lateral pressure commences at a depth of abou five miles , and gradually increases , being greatest near the surface of the earth .
No great importance is attribnted to the numerical resulbs .
The Distribution of Strain in Earth 's Crust .
eonclnsions are given for their qualitative } than their quantitative value .
They depend also on the assumption that the earth 's tlrface is smooth and spherical .
The following laws are also shown to be approxim tely true:\mdash ; 1 .
The depth of the surface at which folding by lateral pressure vanishes , and the depth of the surface at which by ]ateral tension is greatest , both increase as the square loot of the time that has elapsed since the consolidatio1l of the globs .
2 .
Folding by latcral pressure was effected most ) pidly in the early of the world 's hisbory as a solid globe , and , since ) , the total amount of rock folded in any gi time decreases nearly in proportion as the square of time increases .
3 .
A law , similar to No. 2 , for by lateral tension .
I The Rev. O. gument on the Insnficiency of the Contr ( xction Theory .
The argument is described ( see ' Phil. Mag. ' for Feb. , 1887 ) .
It is shown to be inconclusive on the following ounds :\mdash ; 1 .
It assumes that the cooling of the earth to its present condition was instantaneous .
2 .
If instantaneous cooling were possible , there would , it is shown , be no at all , but only by lateral tension .
3 .
It assumes that the earth 's snrface was initially smooth and spherical , whereas Professor B. Pierce and Professor G. H. Darwin have both shown that va , st continental wrinkles would be formed on the surface of a once viscous earth by the diminishing velocity of rotation resulting from tidal friction .
III .
The Effects of Crust-stretching and Foldr , ng on the Evolution of the Earth 's Surface-features .
1 .
Owing to the pressure of the continental masses , crust-stretching by lateral tension takes place principally beneath the ocean-basins , efore deepening contributing to their permanence .
This effect must have been greatest in early geological periods , when the surface of greatest stretching was close to the surface of the earth .
2 .
In another part of the paper it is shown that the amount of crust-stretching is considerably greater than the amount of crustfoldiug , due directly to se ular cooling .
Folding beneath the oceanbed will therefore do little but diminish its rate of subsidence .
The effects of folding in changing the forms of the earth 's surface features must be most apparent in continental areas , especially along those eoasts where the slope towards the ocean-de } ) is most rapid ( i.e. , in the districts where earthquake and volcanic action are known to be most prevalent ) .
In the coast regions , also , the products of contiIV .
" " Note on the GeologicaI Bearing of .
Davison 's Paper .
By T. G. BONNEY , D.Sc .
, .D .
, , Professor of Geology in University College , London .
Received April .
The resuIts obtained by Mr. Davison throw light upon one or two matters in regard to the petrology of the older rocks , which have always appeared to me difficult of explanation .
I venture tbereforb to add a brief note to his paper , written from the point of view of a geologist .
He throws light especially on the following matters:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Among the oIder rocks the great foldings and their resuIts , such as , appear to have occurred when the beds formed the upper 1aYers of the earth 's crust .
Thus the Ordovician rocks of North Wales were cleaved anterior to the deposit of the Silurian ; the Carboniferous , and other Palaeozoic rocks of South-west Britain and itanny were plicated and cleaved , speaking , shortly after their deposition .
The great foldings in the Scotch hlallds occnrred , in great part at least , in Silurian time .
The disturbance of the Lake District rocks , resulting in , must be placed between the end of and the very inning of the Carboniferous ; that of Southern ScotIand , between perhaps yet narrower limits .
The first epoch of making in the Central Alps , with its plication and cleava , immediately followed the deposition of the Eocene rocks .
The list might easily be extended .
( 2 ) The crystalline substratum often appears to be less modified than the overlying softer and more recent beds .
I had attributed to the greater resistency of the former , but then could not see how to explain the foldings of the latter , if the others wers comparatively tincompressed .
This , however , accords with Mr. Davison 's results of the diminishing effects of compression , while the fact that in early geoIogical times the " " neutral zone\ldquo ; between compression and tension was comparatively near the of the earth , may explain frequent parallel arrangement of the minerals in the oIder Archaean gneisses .
I do not now refer to the more marked cbanges , such as the of calcareous or micaceous rocks , of more felspathic or quartzose layers , whereby a stratification is simulated , if it be not recorded , but to the fact that very often a general parallelism may

