1873 .
] Messrs. Gladstone and Tribe on an .
247 homologous series of " oxycarbons , " of which the unit of carbon with the weight 12 may be regarded as the first term , and of which the adjacent terms-differ by an increment of carbonic oxide ( CO ) weighing 28 , precisely as homologous series of hydrocarbons differ by the increment CH2 with the weight 14 .
I have succeeded in identifying by analysis two at least of these substances , namely the adjacent terms C403 and C604 .
From this point of view these peculiar bodies are members of a series of oxycarbons analogous in the oxycarbon system to the series of hydrocarbons of which the unit of carbon is the first and the unit of acetylene Call2 is the second term , the oxycarbon C403 being represented in that series by the hydrocarbon crotonylene C4H8 , and the oxycarbon Ce04 by the hydrocarbon valerylene CsHa .
III .
" On an Air-Battery .
" By J. H. Gladstone , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Alfred Tribe , F.C.S. Received March 6 , 1873 .
The galvanic battery which we are about to describe is founded on a reaction that we brought under the notice of the Royal Society last spring* .
We then showed that if pieces of copper and silver in contact are immersed in a solution of nitrate of copper in the presence of oxygen , a decomposition of the salt ensues , with the formation of cuprous oxide on the silver and a corresponding solution of the copper , while a galvanic current passes through the liquid from copper to silver .
We stated , moreover , that this was no isolated phenomenon , but only one of a large class of similar reactions .
It seemed desirable to examine more fully the history and the capabilities of the electrical power thus produced .
It was previously ascertained that the combination of the oxygen takes place only in the neighbourhood of the silver ; and the following formulae may serve to render the chemical change and transference more intelligible:\#151 ; Before contact , .
mAg -f- O + Cu2N 03+Cu2N 03 -f- nCu ; .
after contact , mAg + Cu20 + Cu2N03 + Cu2N03+(n-2 ) Cu .
This action is evidently a continuous one until either the oxygen or the copper fails .
Now the oxygen of the atmosphere is practically unlimited in amount , but there is a difficulty in bringing any large quantity of it into contact at once with the silver and the dissolved salt .
To facilitate this , we arrange that the silver plate should have a horizontal position just under the surface of the liquid in the cell ; and , * Proc. Boy .
So .
, April 1872 , vol. xx .
p. 290 .
248 Messrs. Gladstone and Tribe on an Air-battery .
[ Apr. 3 , in fact , we convert it into a small silver tray full of crystals of the same metal which rise in projections to the very surface .
The copper plate lies horizontally under it , separated , if need be , by a piece of muslin , and connexion is made by a wire as usual .
The vertical part of the copper plate , from a little above the liquid to the bend , should be varnished ; otherwise solution principally takes place there , which causes the horizontal part of the plate to drop off .
Holes are made in the silver tray with the view of shortening the communication between the air-surface and the copper plate and of facilitating the movements of the salt in solution .
The solution itself may be contained in a shallow trough or saucer , and the whole arrangement will be somewhat as in the sectional view here given:\#151 ; That dissolved oxygen is absolutely necessary for this chemical change has been already shown ; but it was interesting to measure by a galvanometer the difference of the currents obtained by means of an ordinary , that is aerated , solution of copper nitrate , and one from which the air had been separated to the greatest possible extent .
A Thomson s galva meter was employed , which had a resistance of 2631-5 nrnts at 18 3 b. Two cells were prepared with vertical plates and alike in a P .
except that the one contained an ordinary 6 per cent , solution of copper nitrate , and the other a similar solution which had been deoxygenmed by the means described in our former paper .
Another expenme made with a different pair of cells and an U|per cent , solution , was necessary to use the 1-99 shunt ; and the following we amounts of deflection :\#151 ; 1873 .
] Messrs. Gladstone and Tribe on an Air-battery .
249 Time after immersion .
Expt. I. Expt. II .
Oxygenized .
Deox}rgenized .
Oxygenized .
Deoxygenized .
1 minute .
78 14 130 11 4 minutes .
72 9 90 8 12 " 68 6 75 6 49 " \#151 ; \#151 ; 58 3-5 The contrast is evident .
That the deoxygenized solution does give a deflection at all is due partly to the difficulty of excluding air , and partly , perhaps , at first to the oxygen condensed on the surface of the silver plate .
The effect due to the water itself is inappreciable .
From the nature of the reaction it might be expected that the current would gradually diminish on account of the using up of the dissolved oxygen in the neighbourhood of the silver ; such a diminution always does take place , at least after the first few vibrations of the needle .
It might be expected , too , that when the amount of action has run down considerably , the mere moving of the liquid so as to bring fresh parts of the solution against the silver would augment the currents .
It does so .
The same might be predicted from stirring up the crystals of silver in the tray so as to expose new surfaces .
This also was found to be the case .
And , again , it might be anticipated that if the wire were disconnected for a time so as to allow the oxygen to diffuse itself from other parts of the solution , and the connexion were made , the current would be found as strong , or nearly so , as before .
That also is true in fact .
A cell with the plates connected by a wire was placed under a bell-jar full of air over mercury .
The mercury gradually rose inside , as might be expected from the absorption of the oxygen in the air .
The necessity of oxygen and the avidity with which it is taken up are both illustrated by the following experiment:\#151 ; Two cells with horizontal plates were prepared alike in every respect , except that the first was filled with a solution simply deprived of oxygen , the second with a solution through which a stream of carbonic-acid gas had been passed for some time .
The first was placed in the air , the second in a vessel from which the air had been expelled by allowing carbonic-acid gas to flow into it for an hour or two .
The deflections obtained were as follows , the 1-999 shunt being used and the temperature being 13'-7 0:\#151 ; VOL. XXI .
x 250 Messrs. Gladstone and Tribe on an Air-battery .
[ Apr. 3 , Time after immersion .
In air .
In COa .
1 minute .
105 76 5 minutes .
135 62 10 " 135 58 As the cell in an atmosphere of carbonic-acid gas showed considerable action , in fact nearly half as much as that in the air , each cell was short circuited for 23 hours , with the expectation that any oxygen in the closed vessel would be used up ; and , indeed , the most prominent crystals of silver in the cell in carbonic-acid gas became reddened , while a cuprous deposit extended over the whole of the crystals in the other cell .
When , however , the short wires were removed and the galvanometer interposed , the cell in the air gave a deflection of 136 , practically the same as before , but that in carbonic-acid gas , instead of showing a great decrease , rose to 80 .
It was then found that the vessel containing the latter slowly admitted air ; so the contents were swept out by a fresh stream of carbonic-acid gas , and it was made properly air-tight .
After connexion by a short wire for 3 days the galvanometer indicated a deflection of 20 , that of the cell in the air being 110 , temperature 10 ' 0 .
As this showed a very great reduction of the chemical action , carbonic-acid gas was again passed through the vessel for an hour or two ; and after a connexion of two more days the indication of the galvanometer was only 3 , while the other cell gave 115 , the temperature being now 10o,5 C. The action , therefore , was at last reduced almost to nothing ; and the original fault in the experiment brought out , perhaps more clearly than would otherwise be seen , how eagerly the solution will absorb even minute quantities of oxygen from the surrounding gas .
An important point to determine was the best strength of the copper nitrate solution .
Six per cent , was generally preferred , for two reasons : first , it gives about the maximum of effect\#151 ; a solution four times as strong gives less than half the deflection , and a solution only a quarter as strong gives only twro thirds ; secondly , a stronger solution than this 6 per cent , is apt to produce a deposit , not of pure cuprous oxide , but of a subnitrate , which was supposed to clog up the silver crystals to a greater extent .
SjSS ' .
Another point investigated was the best proportion between the areas of the metallic surfaces .
Experiments were made with vertical plates , in which the silver was kept at a uniform size and the copper was diminished by covering it more and more with varnish ; and another se was made in which the copper remained the same , while the silver p a q was reduced .
1873 .
] Messrs. Gladstone and Tribe on an Air-battery .
251 The results may be thus exhibited:\#151 ; Proportion of surfaces .
Deflection .
Silver .
Copper .
Expt. I. Expt. II .
Expt. III .
1 0*25 24 23 1 0*5 28 27 1 0*75 31 30 # , 1 1*0 33 32 28 1 1*33 # # .
* J 28 1 2*0 32 1 4*0 .
30 The increase of the copper surface , therefore , has comparatively little effect .
Proportion of surfaces .
Deflection .
Copper , Silver .
Expt. I. Expt. II .
Expt. III .
1 0*25 7*5 1 0*5 .
, 16 1 0*75 . . .
, 21 1 1*0 38 32 28 1 1*33 41 40 , , 1 2*0 56 54 1 4*0 96 92 . .
The increase , therefore , of the silver or negative metal causes an almost proportionate increase in the chemical action .
This , doubtless , arises from the necessity of oxygen , and explains the value of the large surface exposed by the silver crystals in the tray .
The effect of heat on the action of this cell was examined ; it increases the action greatly : thus an arrangement which gave a deflection of 40 at 20 ' 0 .
gave one of 250 at 50 ' C. ; and the augmentation was observed to be much more rapid in the higher than in the lower portions of this range of temperature , If the formula given above for the reaction be a true one , it follows that every atom of copper deposited on the silver in the state of suboxide must be compensated by an atom of copper dissolved from the copper plate .
This was proved quantitatively .
In a cell that had been in action for a week the loss of the copper plate was 0*391 grm. , while Messrs. Gladstone and Tribe on an Air-battery .
[ Apr. 3 , the suboxide deposited on the silver was found to be equivalent to 0-398 grm. of metallic copper .
This deposit of suboxide , though it soon forms apparently a complete covering to the silver , does not greatly diminish the action ; it is probably porous , besides being itself a conductor of electricity .
In some cases we have found it deposited in crystals sufficiently large to be seen by the naked eye , and which are shown by a magnifying-glass to be regular octahedra .
The internal resistance of this battery , as might be expected , is small .
The electrolytic power of the current was examined .
One cell , the plates of which were about two inches in diameter , was found sufficient to decompose such metallic salts as the nitrates of copper , silver , or lead , copper sulphate or stannous chloride , in aqueous solution , when platinum was used for the negative electrode , and for the positive the same metal as existed in the salt experimented on .
Six cells were sufficient to decompose dilute sulphuric acid slowly and dilute hydroelorie acid pretty quickly , copper electrodes being employed .
The theoretical interest of this battery lies mainly in the fact that it differs essentially from every other galvanic arrangement , inasmuch as the binary compound in solution is incapable of being decomposed either by the positive metal alone or by the two metals in conjunction ; it cannot serve , in fact , as the liquid element of the circuit without the presence of another body ready to combine with one of its constituents when set free .
Grove 's gas-battery is essentially different from ours if the oxygen and hydrogen condensed on the platinum plates play the part of the two metals ; but it closely resembles ours if hydrogen acts the part of the positive and platinum that of the negative metal ; the dilute sulphuric acid , a hydrogen compound , will then be decomposed on account of the simultaneous presence of the oxygen , which can combine with the liberated hydrogen .
Viewed in this manner Grove 's gas-battery is only a special case of the general reaction which we have described in our previous paper ; and the formula will be : Before contact , mPt+0 + Ha S04+nH ; after contact , mPt + H2 0 + Ha S04t(n~2)H .
The practical interest of our arrangement lies in the fact that it is an approximation towards a constant air-battery .
Should it ever c0\#174 ; *eJ into use elsewhere than on the lecture-table , it will probably be m the form of a combination of zinc and copper , with an aerated solution of zinc chloride ; for that arrangement has an electromotive force six times that of the arrangement we have more particularly stu e , an about three quarters that of a Daniell 's cell .
The numbers represen mg the difference of potential between the two metals , which were ac ua y. Presents .
1873 .
] obtained by means of an electrometer belonging to Sir William Thomson , were:\#151 ; Silver and copper with deoxygenized copper nitrate 4 Ditto , , oxygenized ditto 8 to 11 Copper and zinc with chloride of zinc ... ... ... .
62 Ditto " water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
68 Ditto " Daniell 's cell ... ... ... ... ... . .
83 Chloride of zinc is preferred to the sulphate , as it offers less internal resistance , and a solution of 20 per cent , is recommended as about the best conductor* .
A single cell of this description is capable of decomposing dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid , when copper electrodes are employed .
The two metals might be arranged as in a Daniell 's battery ; the zinc would of course require no amalgamation , and the whole might be left for weeks or months without any attention .
The oxide of zinc produced generally falls to the bottom of the vessel , and may be separated whenever it is thought desirable .
The power is thus obtained at a minimum of expense , for the oxygen which combines with the zinc costs nothing .
Such a battery would appear to be specially adapted to cases where the galvanic current has to be frequently broken , as in telegraphy ; for at each period of rest it renews its strength by the absorption or diffusion of more oxygen from the air .
The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess , to Thursday , April 24th .
Presents received March 6 , 1873 .
Transactions .
Gottingen :\#151 ; Konigliche Gesellsehaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhand-lungen .
Band XVII .
4to .
1872 .
Nachrichten aus dem Jahre 1872 .
8vo .
1872 .
The Society .
Kazan :\#151 ; Imperial University .
Izvyestiya i Uchenuiya Zapiski ( Intelligences or Scientific Notes ) .
1869 , Part 5 , 6 ; 1870 , Part 1-4 ; 1871 , Part 1-4 .
8vo .
1871\#151 ; 72 .
The University .
Middlesborough:\#151 ; Iron and Steel Institute .
Journal .
1872 .
No. 4 .
8vo .
London .
The Institute . .
Observations , Reports , \amp ; c. Baltimore:\#151 ; Peabody Institute .
Pifth Annual Report of the Provost to the Trustees , June 6 , 1872 .
8vo .
The Institute .
* On the authority of Mr. Herbert MacLeod .

