59 1903 .
] The BetrocalcarineRegion of the Cortex Cerebri .
" The Morphology of the Eetrocalcarine Region of the Cortex Cerebri .
" By G. Elliot Smith , M.A. , M.D. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge , Professor of Anatomy , Egyptian Government School of Medicine , Cairo .
Communicated by Professor A. Macalister , F.RS .
Received December 1 , 1903 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1904 .
Although many writers , amongst whom Henschen , Yialet and Ramon y Cajal may be specially mentioned , have devoted a considerable amount of attention to the study of the white streak in the occipital cortex cerebri , which Gennari first described in 1776 as " lineola albidior admodum eleganter , " no one , so far as I am aware , has ever used this feature as a guide to the identification of homologous areas and sulci in different brains .
On the contrary , it has been employed as evidence that the furrows on the surface of the hemisphere have no value for the orientation of physiological areas , seeing that it occupies the edges of two adjoining gyri and the floor of the sulcus between them* In this preliminary note I hope to demonstrate that Gennari 's stria is a sure criterion for the identification of three or perhaps four sulci .
I began the study of its distribution in the brain of Man and that of the Apes to test the accuracy of the homology which I had suggested between the sulcus occipitalis lunatus ( mihi ) in the former and the so-called " Affenspalte " of the latter.f In the course of these investigations I found that the stria-bearing cortex ( or " area striata occipitalis , " as it may be called ) presented such definite relations to the calcarine sulcus in the Human brain , that it could be used as a ready and sure means of determining the homologue of this furrow in the Apes and the other Mammalia .
The accompanying diagram of the mesial surface of the right occipital region of the brain of an adult male Egyptian Fellah will make this relationship clear .
The drawing is schematic in as much as all the submerged gyri are represented as though they were exposed on the surface ; the distribution of the stria Gennari is shown by the punctate shading .
The furrow commonly known as the " fissura calcarina " consisted , in this case , of four separate elements , of which the most anterior one alone was strictly entitled to Huxley 's term " sulcus calcarinus .
" The other three furrows ( r1 , r2 and r3 ) represent the sulcus for which in a * Oscar Vogt , " Sir anatomisclien Grliederung des Cortex Cerebri , " 'Journal f. Psychology und Neurologic , ' vol. 2 , part 4 , 1903 , p. 168 ; see especially Plate 11 , fig. 1 .
f " The so-called ' Affenspalte ' in the Human ( Egyptian ) Brain , " ' Anatomischer Anzeiger , ' 1903 , pp. 74 -83 .
Prof. Cf .
Elliot Smith .
The Morphology of [ Dec. 1 , i previous work I have suggested the name " retrocalcarinus."* In that memoir I have emphasised the fundamental distinction between the calcarine and the retrocalcarine sulci and have discarded the customary Fig. 1.\#151 ; Diagram of the Mesial Aspect of the Occipital Region of the Right Cerebral Hemisphere of a Male Egyptian Fellah .
The area striata is shaded .
PRAECUNEUS c U N EUS mm r1 = Sulcus retrocalcarinus anterior ; r2 = Sulcus retrocalcarinus intercalatus ; r3 = Sulcus retrocalcarinus verticalis ; x = Sulcus limitans dorsalis arese striatse ; y = Sulcus dimitans rentralis arese striatse .
The fossa parieto-occipitalis consists of the depression in which the three sulci\#151 ; incisura parieto-occipitalis , sulcus paracalcarinus , and sulcus limitans prsecunei\#151 ; are submerged .
application of the term calcarine to the latter furrow , which shares so few features in common with the former , and is of such subsidiary importance .
The distribution of the area striata indicates the same distinction in a striking manner .
For , whereas the sulcus calcarinus # " On the Morphology of the Brain in the Mammalia , " c Linn , Soc. Trans./ 2nd Series , Zoology , vol. 8 , 1902 , p. 386 .
1903 .
] theRetro calcarine Region of th Cortex Cerebri .
represents the anterior boundary line of the stria-bearing cortex , the sulcus retroealcarinus lies wholly within that area ( fig. 1 ) .
If a section be made through any part of the true calcarine sulcus ( except its extremities ) , the ventro-caudal lip of the furrow will be found to contain the stripe of Gennari , which stops sharply opposite the bottom of the sulcus and does not invade its dorso-cephalic lip ( fio .
1 , A ) .
I have demonstrated this relationship in a large series of Egyptian and Soudanese brains .
It is clear that the true calcarine sulcus accurately marks the line of separation of the area striata and the gyrus fornicatus .
In a previous work* I was led to the conclusion that the calcarine sulcus on the mesial surface and the suprasylvian sulcus on the lateral surface of the cerebral hemisphere are probably due to some causes other than the mere general expansion of the neopallium , because they occur with such remarkable constancy in the most , diversely-specialised Mammalian Orders , in which the mechanical conditions moulding the growing cortex must be far from uniform .
In the case of the suprasylvian sulcus I stated reasons for believing ( p. 410 ) that these other causes were to be found in the unequal rates of growth of the receptive area for auditory impressions and a more dorsal region performing some other function .
The true calcarine sulcus is also probably the result of the disproportionate expansion of two neighbouring areas of different physiological significance .
If we admit the validity of the teaching of Henschen , Yialet and others , f who regard the visual centre as being exactly limited to the region distinguished by the stripe of Gennari , we can conclude that the true calcarine sulcus is caused by the unequal rates of growth of the visual area and the cortex in front of it , which performs some other function .
If the brain of any large Carnivore or Ungulate be examined ( in sections either of the fresh brain or after staining according to Weigert 's method ) , the area striata will be found to be limited anteriorly on the mesial surface of the hemisphere by the retrosplenial part of Krueg 's " splenial sulcus .
" The stria extends into the caudal lip of the sulcus and ceases abruptly opposite the bottom of the furrow .
This affords a striking confirmation of the view , which I put forward last year ] ; on general morphological grounds , that the retrosplenial part of Krueg 's splenial sulcus in the Ungulata , Carnivora , and other Mammalia is the strict homologue of the carcarine sulcus ( in the restricted sense just explained ) of the Human brain .
S * Op. cit. , supra , ' Linn. Soc. Trans. , ' 1903 .
f See S. E. Henschen , " Revue Critique de la Doctrine sir le Centre Cortical do la Vision , " XHIe Congrfes International de Medicine , p. 130 , Paris , 1900 , trails-lated by Dr. Dor .
X Op. cit. , supra .
S Op. cit. , 'Linn .
Soc. Trans./ 1903 , p. 376 et seq. Pi'of- Gr .
Elliot Smith .
Morphology of [ Dec. 1 , If a section be made through any part of the retroealcarinc sulcus ( or sulci ) the stria Gennari will be found to occupy both lips of the furrow ( tig .
1 B ) .
Moreover , it extends upward for a short distance into the j cuneus and downward for a similar extent into the gyrus lingualis .
It sometimes happens ( as in the specimen which I have represented in fig. 1 ) that superior ( x ) and inferior limiting furrows of this area striata make their appearance .
When the posterior end of the retrocalcarine sulcus is bifid , or when it is represented by a separate vertical furrow ( fig. 1 , r3 ) , the area striata becomes extended so as to completely surround the depression .
In some cases the retrocalcarine sulcus may be placed close to the superior margin of the hemisphere ; its anterior part may be less than 1 cm .
distant from the fossa parieto-occipitalis , in fact , this sulcus or its separate constituents may occupy in different human hemispheres any position within the triangle bounded below by the tentorial margin , above I by the dorsal edge , and in front by the fossa parieto-occipitalis .
But 1 wherever this retrocalcarine sulcus or any of its sub-divisions may happen to be placed , it will be found to be invariably within the area striata .
The obvious inference is that the sulcus retrocalcarinus is produced by the folding of the visual cortex itself .
The variability of its form and constitution points to the conclusion that it is the result of the mechanical conditions to which a limited cortical area must be subjected when it begins to expand .
In his great monograph on the " Surface Anatomy of the Cerebral Hemispheres , " * Cunningham has expressed the opinion that there is no " posterior calcarine fissure " ( sulcus retrocalcarinus mihi ) in the Apes , the so-called " calcarine fissure " being the representative of the " stem " only ( i.e , ,the sulcus calcarinus mihi ) of the Human brain ( p. 42 ) .
I have already strongly opposed this interpretation on general morphological grounds , because the retrocalcarine sulcus of the Human brain is often apparently formed by the backward prolongation of the true calcarine sulcus , as Gustaf Retzins has demonstrated . !
The distribution of the area striata in the Apes enables us to settle this matter decisively .
I have examined sections of more than 50 hemispheres of the genera Cebas , Papio , Cynopithecus , Semnopithecus , Hylobatesand Simla to determine the distribution of the stria Gennari , and have found that it occupies both , lips of the greater portion of the sulcus commonly called calcarine .
This shows that the greater part of this furrow represents the sulcus retrocalcarinus of the Human brain .
The examination of foetal brains of Semnopithecus seems to ihdicate that the retrocalcarine sulcus is very precocious in those brains in which the area striata is of great extent .
It may develop eon* \#163 ; Royal Irish Academy Memoirs , ' 1892 .
f ' Das Menschenhriii , ' 1896 .
1903 .
] the RetrocalcarineRegion of the Cortex Cerebri .
temporaneously with or perhaps even before the true calcarine sulcus , or , as seems to be the commonest method , in most Apes ( certainly in Hylobates ) one great fossa develops as the representative of the conjoint calcarine and retrocalcarine sulci .
It is certain that the mere chronological order in which sulci develop in different brains is of little value in the identification of their homologies , so that we cannot place such implicit reliance on this method as Cunningham* seems to do when he regards it as the basis on which the accurate comparison of the sulci in the Human and Simian brain must rest .
In many Apes the area striata , which forms the walls of the retro-calcarine sulcus , may not reach the surface of the cuneus or the lingual gyrus .
In the brains of certain large Ungulates and Carnivores there is a furrow behind the calcarine ( splenial ) sulcus , which occupies a position analogous to that of the retrocalcarine in the Primates .
In the case of the Camel 's brain , I suggested the definite homology of this furrow with the primate retrocalcarine .
f In a series of hemispheres of Camelus dromedarius , I have found that the distribution of the area striata closely follows this sulcus .
When , as often happens , this retrocalcarine sulcus bends upward to the dorso-caudal angle of the mesial surface , the stria-bearing cortex has a similar peculiar distribution .
This places beyond all doubt the question of the identity of the retrocalcarine sulci in the camel and the primates .
It has been stated by Henschen ] ; that the stripe of Gennari does not extend on to the lateral aspect of the Human brain .
This is true in some , but by no means all , cases .
The exact extent of the caudal prolongation of the stria is subject to a wide range of variation .
As the area striata is traced backward alongside the sulcus retrocalearinus , it will be found to expand near the caudal pole * of the hemisphere ( fig. 1 ) , but in some cases it does not reach the true lateral aspect .
In more than half of the specimens which I have examined , however , it does extend on to the lateral surface ( fig. 2 ) and reaches almost ( in some cases quite ) as far forward as the sulcus occipitalis lunatus ( or " Affenspalte " ) .
I have chosen to represent as fig. 2 a case in which the sulcus lunatus is placed far back , because this presumably presents the nearest resemblance to the common European type of brain .
But it often happens in the'* Egyptian brain that a large occipital operculum is present , as in the Apes , and in these cases the stria Gennari is prolonged far forward on the lateral aspect into the operculum .
It has been known for many years that the stria extends into the occipital operculum in the Apes , but I have been unable to find any * Op. cit. , p. vi .
f Op. cit. , 4 Linn. Soc. Trans.,5 p. 380 , fig. 55 .
X Op. cit. , supra .
Prof. G. Elliot Smith .
of [ Dec. 1 , reference to a more detailed account of its distribution .
In most of the brains of Apes that I have examined , the area striata extended forward on the surface of the operculum , but often failed to reach as far as its anterior free margin ; in some cases it ceased abruptly at a point 4 or 5 mm. behind the edge of the operculum .
In the Cercopitheckhe ( in which the operculum is relatively biggest ) the stria Gennari extended upward as far as the dorso-mesial edge of the hemisphere , and laterally ( or ventrally ) as far as the sulcus occipitalis inferior .
The sulcus occipitalis superior lies in the midst of the area Pie .
2.\#151 ; Horizontal Section through the Posterior Part of the right Cerebral Hemisphere of an Egyptian .
caicox ' r = Sulcus retroealcarinus .
The thick line represents the stria Gfennari .
It is quite exceptional for the sulcus collaterals to he prolonged into the area striata as in this diagram .
striata .
Thus , if the whole stria-bearing cortical region were spread out in one plane , it would present a racquet-like shape\#151 ; the handle of the racquet corresponding to the retrocalearine cortex and the expanded part to the occipital operculum .
In the Human brain the " handle of the racquet " becomes greatly enlarged at the expense of the rest of the area striata .
But its form is subject to a very wide range of variation , which I shall describe in detail in a forthcoming memoir .
[ Addendum , January 11.\#151 ; The so-called " calcarine fissure " in the Apes is a complete involution of the of the mesial part of the area striata .
The so-called " calcarine fissure " ( of most writers ) in 1903 .
] the RetrocalcarineRegion of the Cortex Cerebri .
the Human brain usually consists of an anterior part , which is an anterior limiting sulcus of the area striata , and a posterior part , which is a mere indentation ( or indentations ) of part of the mesial area striata , therefore it is not exact to speak of these similarly named furrows as being strictly homologous .
] " On the Acoustic Shadow of a Sphere .
" By Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.B.S. With an Appendix , giving the Values of Legendre 's Functions from P0 to P20 at Intervals of Five Degrees .
By Professor A. Lodge .
Received December 28 , 1903 , \#151 ; Read January 21 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) The problem here considered is that of the intensity of sound at the various points of a rigid and fixed sphere on which plane waves impinge , or reciprocally the intensity at a distance in various directions due to a source of sound situate upon the surface of the sphere .
The analytical solution is readily given , but in the interpretation everything depends upon the ratio of the wave-length to the circumference ( 2ttc ) .
If kc be small , the sphere has little effect .
In my book on the " Theory of Sound , " S 328 , I have considered ( but only for certain special directions ) the case of kc = 2 .
The extension to various directions is now given ; and the calculation is pushed to the case of kc = 10 , about as far as is practicable .
For this purpose the values of Legendre 's Functions up to P20 are required .
e. 4(w + a- ) .
kc =10 .
e. 4(F2+G ) .
0 3-8300 105 1-06117 15 3-8176 120 0-53815 30 3-7148 135 0-278QO 45 3-4978 150 0.13338 60 3-1098 165 0 .
OQ4.QO 75 2-4984 170 0 * 19^01 90 1-7510 175 O. 180 1-09263 The table gives the intensity in directions making angles 0 with the radius which passes through the source .
On the same scale the intensity would be unity were the sphere removed .
The most interesting feature is the existence of a fairly good shadow between 135 ' and 170 ' , and the subsequent rise of intensity in the neighbourhood vol lxxiii .
F

