]\gt ; 100 Torquae produced by a Beam On a New Method of suring tTorquae produced by a Beam of Light in Oblique through a Glass Plate .
By GUY BARLOW , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received November 29 , 1912 , \mdash ; 7 Read January 16 , 1913 .
) In a recent paper*an experiment was described in which the torque exerted by a beam of light in passing obliquely through a cube of glass was measured directly by the twist produced in the suspending quartz fibre .
Since the light was incident at a constant angle , about , the resulting torque was constant also , and the method may therefore be termed statical .
Another form of the experiment , which we might call the dynamical method , will now be described .
Consider a parallel beam of light having energy unit length , and let it pass through a parallel plate of glass of thickness and refractive index .
If the angle of incidence is small , the beam be displaced laterally through a distance , and on the assumption that the beam possesses momentum of amount : ( velocity of light ) per unit length , it at once follows that the torque produced should be Hence according to theory the torque is directly proportional to , and always tends to increase .
If the plate has a moment of inertia I and is suspended vertically by a quartz fibre giving a torsion couple per radian , the action of the light will virtually decrease the restoring torque due to the fibre with the result that the natural period of small oscillations , will be altered to , when the plate is traversed by the where .
Hence for the ratio of the periods we find In practice the change in period is very small , so putting we obtain We can regard this result as giving us a new method of verifying the existence of the torque exerted by light , since it will suffice for the purpose if , instead of measuring the torque for any given angle , we compare the value of calculated as above with the value actually observed as obtained from the periods with the beam of light respectively traversing the plate * Barlow , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 87 , p. 1 .
Torque produced by Light in Oblique Refraction .
and out off .
Further verification of the torque may seem unnecessary , but as this method possessed some novelty I have thought it worth while to make the experiment which is here described .
The above calculation shows that should be proportional to , the energy corresponding to the volume traversed in the plate .
The former apparatus using a cube of 1 cm .
edge was , therefore , quite suitable for the new experiment .
With the strongest beam available the expected value of was not more than per cent. ; it was therefore evident that this dynamical method could not compare favourably with the statical as regards the accuracy obtainable .
However , the new method possesses the distinct : advantage that no especial care is needed either in adjusting the cross-section of the beam or in setting the angle of incidence .
Theoretically we might irst , hose devices wracticefaces.mitted beakened intensity , ffect beturning tfixed moying asecond braversing tight a S beams give rise to torques also proportional to .
If we take the reflection , coefficient of the glass as for normal incidence it can be shown that the factor must be applied to the expression for if is to refer to the incident beam .
The apparatus used was exactly the same as in the earlier experiment ( lo .
The cube was set normally to the light , and the section of the beam was then reduced to a square of about 9 mm. edge in order to give good clearance .
The experiments were made with hydrogen at a pressure of about 10 cm .
Hg .
in the experimental case , as these conditions were known to be favourable for avoiding the effects of gas action .
To test the elimination of disturbing effects the cube was allowed to come to rest and then exposed to the beam for several minutes , but no appreciable deflection was ever observed .
Small torsional oscillations of the cube were conveniently set up by gently pumping out a little , or by letting a little more in .
The transits of the centre of swing , occurring at intervals of 54 seconds , were observed for an hour and recorded on a chronograph .
Ihese transits consisted of 5 sets of 12 , the sets 1 , 3 , and 6 being taken with the light off , the alternate sets 2 and 4 with the lighl on .
The damping reduced the amplitude to 1 per cent. of its initial } in the course of one hour , so that the time of observation could not be usefully extended .
The mean periods and for the alternate sets were obtained by applying Gauss 's method\mdash ; thus each set gave six independent values of the period .
Finally , was - obtained by taking the .
difference between the mean period for a set with on , Torque pOblique andRefraction after .
light on , and the mean period , with light off , for the sets before and after .
This treatment eliminates any error due to a possible effect of amplitude or temperature variation on the period of the cube .
The torsion head was I rotated so that all four sides of the cube were used in succession as incident faces .
The results are given in the following table:\mdash ; Final mean sec. The energy , measured as in the former experiments , was found to be erg/ cm .
Hence , making the correction for reflections , the theory gives see .
, a value which is in satisfactory agreement with the above value given by the experiment .

