292 Mr. A. Edington .
South African Horse-sickness : " South African Horse-sickness : its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inoculation .
" By Alexander Edington , M.B. , C.M. , F.R.S.E. , Director of the Colonial Bacteriological Institute , Cape Colony .
Communicated by Sir David Gill , F.R.S. Received August 20 , 1900 .
This disease , so far as is known , is peculiar to South Africa .
While affecting the Transvaal and Rhodesia every year\#151 ; beginning about the end of October and continuing until the following May , or even later\#151 ; it only affects the Cape Colony and Natal in an epizootic form in certain years , although sporadic cases occur annually in certain localities .
Animals Affected.\#151 ; It affects horses , asses , mules , and it has been asserted\#151 ; although I have never seen such cases\#151 ; that quaggas have also been killed by it .
A disease which occurs to a limited extent among cattle , called by the natives Imapunga , and one which exists as a widespread plague among high-bred sheep and goats in the Eastern Province of Cape Colony , are each closely related in their pathology with this malady .
Areas Infested.\#151 ; The most dangerous areas are those which are relatively low-lying\#151 ; independent of the absolute altitude of the district .
Period of Infection.\#151 ; It has been commonly observed that where animals during a season of sickness are not permitted to graze after sunset and before the sun has dried up the dew from the herbage , they do not so commonly become affected as where such a routine is not carried out .
Horses which are stabled during the night are , as a rule , safe , but during last year 60 per cent , of the stabled horses in Eshowe , Zululand , died of this sickness .
Veterinary Lieutenant Coley , A.V.D. , who kindly made the observations for me , stated that these horses were mainly fed on Guinea or Ubaaba grass mixed with forage or Indian corn .
This grass was usually cut in the evenings and made into bundles till next day .
Those who took particular care to have the grass thoroughly dried in the sun before using it did not lose their horses , while those neglecting this precaution lost heavily .
The disease is only directly contagious ; for while inoculated horses have died in my stables among clean animals , I have never found , during observations extending over seven years , a single case of infec- i tion from such a source .
The annual mortality in Rhodesia and the low-lying parts of the Transvaal amounts to over 90 per cent. Animals which have recovered from the sickness are termed " salted , " and are from six to ten times increased in market value .
its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inocxdation .
293 Secondary Fever .
Animals which are " salted " are liable to subsequent attacks of fever which have no necessary relation to fresh infection .
I have observed numerous cases of this description among the " salted " animals under my observation and during periods when the sickness was unknown .
Symptoms of the Disease .
It occurs under two forms\#151 ; the Dikkopziekte* and the Dunpaarde-ziekte.f In the former the head and neck swells up enormously , thus affording trustworthy indications of illness during life .
In the latter form , as a rule , no symptoms appear until close to the period of death , when the animal becomes subject to very rapid breathing with heaving at the flanks .
At the moment of death , in both forms , it is common to find a huge cloud of white foam ejected from the mouth and nose .
This foam is produced from a free exudation of blood plasma into the air passages .
Owing to the fact that the animals suffering from the Dunpaarde-ziekte show no symptoms until toward the end of the period of illness , it had come to be believed that the whole period of the disease was limited to a few hours ' duration .
Post-mortem Phenomena .
The pericardium is almost invariably filled with a yellow fluid which , while usually clear , is sometimes blood-stained .
Solidified gelatinous exudate is frequently found in relation to the beginning of the aorta .
The pleural cavity is frequently occupied by yellow fluid , and the interlobular and sub-pleural tissues are also frequently distended by this material .
The interlobular tissue is frequently so distended by exudation that the lung tissue proper is dissected up in all directions .
The subcutaneous tissue , especially about the great vessels in the neck , is commonly found to be invaded by this exudation , while in the Dikkopziekte the swelling of the head and neck is due to this effusion .
The yellow fluid of the pericardium and the pleurae is spontaneously coagulable in the presence of minute traces of blood .
These represent the more characteristic pathological conditions obtaining in this disease , among which one characteristic is most noticeable by its absence , e.g. , inflammatory phenomena .
Pathological * Dikkopziekte , a Dutch , word signifying u thick.head sickness,55 is applied to the form in which the swollen head is the most obvious symptom .
t Dunpaardeziekte , " thin horse-sickness,55 applied to the form in which the head is little or not at all swollen .
Mr. A. Edington .
South Af rican Horse-sickness : phenomena are , therefore , for the most part to he ascribed to the marvellous exudation of blood plasma , which , while seen more or less throughout the serous and subcutaneous tissues , is best marked within the thoracic cavity .
In my annual reports as Director of the Colonial Bacteriological Institute I have referred to the morbid anatomy in greater detail .
Inoculation Experiments .
For the purpose of conveying to healthy animals the infection from those already sick three materials have been made use of , viz.\#151 ; 1 .
The yellow fluid from the trachea of infected animals .
2 .
The yellow fluid from the pericardium of infected animals .
3 .
The blood of infected animals .
The use of the first two fluids has not always been successful in setting up the disease , but fresh virulent blood has invariably proved successful .
Methods of Use of the Materials mentioned .
( a. ) By subcutaneous injection .
( b. ) By insertion of a seton , impregnated with the fluid , under the skin .
( c. ) By drenching , e.g. , giving a dose by the mouth .
Sites Selected .
( a. ) Directly into the lung tissue by hypodermic needle operating through the skin over an intercostal space .
( b. ) Into the subcutaneous tissue of the neck .
( c. ) Into the subcutaneous tissue of the flank .
( d. ) Intravenously .
Any one of the channels selected is equally suitable , but the incubation period is somewhat shorter when the intravenous method is used .
1 Period of Incubation .
When the malady is induced by the inoculation of 2 or 3 c.c. of the blood of an animal which has died from spontaneous disease , a mean period of eight to nine days supervenes , after which the temperature begins to rise .
The elevation is gradual , with remissions during the night , but attains to 106 ' F. , as a rule , before death , which usually j occurs after four or five days of fever .
its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inoculation .
295 Preservation of the Virus .
After having transmitted the disease through a succession of animals , I found it possible to preserve its virulence unimpaired through a long period of time .
I bleed the animals into bottles which hold 800 c.c. of fluid .
These bottles are prepared by placing in them 50 c.c. of a 10 per cent , solution of neutral citrate of potash and plugging the necks with cotton wool .
Such bottles are sterilised in the autoclave previous to use .
After being filled with blood , the influence of the citrate arrests coagulation , and the corpuscular matter soon subsides , leaving the more or less clear plasma above .
The latter is drawn off to half the original bulk , and is replaced by a 50 per cent , solution of glycerine and water , containing 0*25 per cent , of pure carbolic acid .
Such a mixture preserves its virulence quite unimpaired for over two years .
One c.c. of this material serves to induce the disease in its characteristic form , but if the dose is increased to 3 or 5 c.c. , the period of incubation is shortened , and the post-mortem phenomena are less characteristic .
From the observations I have made I have found that the subcutaneous injection of fresh or properly preserved horse-sickness blood produces symptoms during life , and shows pathological changes after death which are not to be distinguished from those found in the spontaneously occurring cases of the lung form of the disease .
It is somewhat remarkable that the only cases in which I have succeeded in producing the Dikkop form were those in which the virus which was used was somewhat septic .
When , however , I have inoculated virulent preserved blood into partially protected animals , I have in a number of cases , although not in all , produced this form .
In three cases where the virus used has been sufficiently attenuated as not to produce death but a longer febrile period than is found in the fatal cases , I have also seen the Dikkop form produced .
Effect of Desiccation on the Virus .
Citrated blood dried in a thick layer was rendered non-virulent .
Where , however , such blood was rapidly dried on glass plates in very thin layers it was found , when 2 grammes was dissolved in salt solution and injected into horses , that it produced fever , but not in a virulent form .
The fever thus induced gave practically no protection against a dose of virulent blood at a subsequent date .
Mild attacks of horse-sickness do not , however , give such protection as is required to resist virulent blood .
296 Mr. A. Edington .
South African Horse-sickness Experiments made in regard to Protective Inoculation .
The yellow fluid from the pericardium of an animal which had died from the disease was filtered through a Pasteur filter .
100 c.c. of the filtrate was injected subcutaneously into a horse .
Eleven days later it was inoculated with 3 c.c. of preserved blood injected subcutaneously .
The result , which culminated in death from ordinary horse-sickness , showed that no protective influence had been exerted by the filtered fluid .
Effect of Calomel.\#151 ; This drug , in doses of 30 to 60 grains daily , had the effect of retarding death , and the blood of such animals drawn at periods later than that at which death usually occurs was distinctly weakened in virulence .
Such blood has on several occasions , though not in all , induced attacks of the disease , from which the animals not only recovered , but acquired protection against virulent blood injected subsequently .
Transference of the Disease to other Animals .
( a. ) Donkeys.\#151 ; The subcutaneous or intravenous inoculation of donkeys with fresh virulent blood is followed by fever .
The period of onset is irregular and uncertain , while the duration of the febrile period varies from one or two days to , in my experience , a week or more .
The amount of the virus used has some relation to the severity of the fever , but the special susceptibility of the animal is the principal factor in determining the degree and duration of the fever .
Two donkeys , equal in age , were inoculated respectively with 1 c.c. ] and 50 c.c. of the same blood .
In both cases a moderately severe reaction followed , and while the animal receiving the injection of 50 c.c. was rather more severely affected than the other , the difference on the whole was but slight .
In all I have inoculated twelve donkeys , and , while none died , the difference in susceptibility was most clearly demonstrated , some scarcely showing any reaction at all .
( b. ) Cattle.-\#151 ; The susceptibility of cattle to the inoculated disease is excessively variable .
I have inoculated twenty-one cattle .
A definite febrile reaction was produced in seven cases , and four died .
In the case of one which died , and in which the symptoms produced were quite characteristic of those found in horses , the inoculation of its blood into a clean horse was followed by the usual period of incubation , the onset of fever , and death from characteristic horse-sickness .
The disease known as Imapunga , which occurs to a limited extent among cattle , presents features which in every respect are identical with those produced in susceptible cattle by the inoculation of virulent horse-sickness blood .
its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inoculation .
297 ( c. ) Goats.\#151 ; Angora goats are also to a limited extent susceptible to horse-sickness infection .
Of seventeen which were inoculated , a febrile reaction occurred in ten ; none died .
From one of the ten blood was taken , which was used to inoculate an ox .
The latter animal develqped fever , and died with exactly similar symptoms during life , and showed the same post-mortem conditions as the ox already referred to , whose blood , when inoculated into a horse , produced characteristic horse-sickness .
( d. ) Sheep.\#151 ; Sheep are also susceptible .
Of ten which were inoculated , six showed a well-marked febrile reaction , but none died .
I have not succeeded in transferring the disease to rabbits , guinea-pigs , rats , or mice .
The Transmission of the Disease for Protective Inoculation by Means of the Inoculation of Fresh Blood .
; The inoculation of horses with the blood of donkeys which were suffering from fever produced by inoculation has been attended with most varying results .
In some cases death has been produced , in some an irregular febrile period , while in others no apparent result has followed .
The period of onset of the fever has likewise been most variable .
In some cases a reaction has been set up corresponding to the normal period of incubation which obtains in horse-sickness , while in other cases reaction has been delayed for more than 25 days .
Influence of the Reaction produced .
Where fever has set in on or about the eighth day , been moderately severe in degree and duration , and subsequently subsided , a very definite degree of protection has been produced , although seldom high enough to set up such a resistance as to oppose death when the animal was subsequently inoculated with virulent blood .
A striking demonstration of variable susceptibility among horses was furnished during these experiments .
Of three horses and one mule which were each inoculated subcutaneously with 5 c.c. of fresh blood\#151 ; The mule had no reaction .
Two horses had scarcely any reaction .
One horse had a good reaction .
In the case of the last horse , when subsequently inoculated with virulent blood it suffered severely and just managed to recover .
The others had not been protected to any appreciable degree .
Obviously , therefore , the susceptibility of the last animal had been such as to admit of infection from the donkey 's blood producing reaction and the 298 Mr. A. Edington .
South African Horse-sickness : establishment of protection , whereas the higher degree of insusceptibility of the other animals resisted infection , and in this way evaded the onset of protection .
This phenomenon forms the greatest barrier to protective inoculation , and has contributed to the enormous trouble I have experienced in devising a practical method - of protective inoculation .
The fresh infected blood of cattle , sheep , and goats is still more variable in its results than that obtained from the donkey .
Numerous other experiments of the same nature have been made , all of which result in showing\#151 ; ( a. ) That donkeys , oxen , goats , and sheep possess a very irregular susceptibility to the disease .
( b. ) That the blood of donkeys which do not react may produce no effect when inoculated into the horse .
( c. ) That the blood of donkeys which have evinced moderate reaction may produce intense reaction in some horses and practically none in others .
( d. ) That a mild reaction in the donkey furnishes no definite assurance as regards the reaction which its blood may set up in horses .
Owing to the variable quality of the infection possessed by infected donkey 's blood in the fresh state , I experimented with blood taken from donkeys and oxen which , after having been received , was preserved in the manner already described .
A large number of experiments carried out by this means furnished the following results:\#151 ; 1 .
Protection was only obtained where a definite amount of fever had been produced on several occasions , but unless the reaction was severe , the animal did not resist the inoculation of 1 e.cJ of preserved virulent blood at a later period .
2 .
The susceptibility of horses to such a weakened or attenuated^ virus varies enormously .
Of two animals inoculated with the j same dose of the same virus injected directly into the jugular vein , one had good reaction , the other very feeble .
Neither were found to be protected when subsequently inoculated with virulent blood .
One inoculated with the same .amount of the same preserved !
material two months later died from the primary inoculation , thus !
showing that even the attenuated virus can be satisfactorily preserved !
for a considerable period of time .
In the case of another animal which was inoculated intravenously | with this virus no result followed .
Fifteen days later the same inocu- J its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inoculation .
299 lation was repeated .
The temperature began to be elevated on the fourteenth day , and it died of horse-sickness seven days later .
The primary inoculation in this case , while being ineffectual to induce the disease , had evidently lowered the susceptibility , so that a fresh stimulus , by the same virus , was sufficient to overcome the resistance entirely .
Having recognised that the blood of animals which lived beyond the ordinary period at which horses usually die from horse-sickness was lowered in virulence , I determined to attempt to produce this change in vitro .
Having , therefore , prepared bottles containing citrate solution , and having thoroughly sterilised them , selected animals were bled under the most rigid aseptic management , and the blood received in the bottles which , after being replugged , were incubated at a temperature of 102 F. during ten days .
In one such experiment , out of a total of fourteen bottles , thirteen remained perfectly free from extraneous organisms .
Such blood after incubation was then preserved and tested .
I I found , in this manner , that it was possible to produce an attenuated virus equally suitable for inoculation as that obtained from the donkey or the ox .
I While , however , these experiments demonstrated that it was possible to protect horses by repeated inoculations of an attenuated virus , they equally demonstrated the irregularity of action , owing to the varying susceptibility to the disease in its attenuated form which obtains among horses .
I Several important facts , however , which were elucidated , are deserving of careful consideration , viz.:\#151 ; Death in cases of horse-sickness cannot directly be ascribed to hyperpyrexia , inasmuch as several horses have recovered after having experienced temperatures of over 107 F. ; while others , which have died , and , in which characteristic lesions have been found , have not I had a temperature exceeding 105 F. Protection can be arrived at without the production of very great reaction , provided that a number of inoculations are made into the ; animal , and that these have been so arranged as to proceed very | gradually to the highest degree of virulence .
3 .
' It is exceedingly difficult to determine the exact degree of attenuation in any particular sample of an attenuated virus .
I have usually attempted this by the inoculation of the virus into one or , at most , two horses ; but if the susceptibility of such animals happens to be of a low grade , then the reaction produced may not obtain in other horses for which it may subsequently be used .
In other words , to determine 300 Mr. A. Edington .
South African Horse-sickness exactly the strength of an attenuated virus , it would be necessary always to make the test on at least five animals .
4 .
The indication for future experimentation was thus to call for the discovery of some method by which a virus of standard virulence might be , at will , reduced to any required degree of attenuation .
Experiments were also made to determine whether the blood of an animal suffering from " secondary " fever had any infective property .
To this end animals under " secondary " fever , with temperature as high as 106 F. , were bled and the blood used to inoculate clean animals , but in no case was any reaction produced thereby .
I therefore am convinced that the blood during " secondary " fever is non-inf ective .
Experiments with Serum and Dejibrinated Blood of Animals which have recovered from Horse-sickness .
The experiments made have included serum derived from\#151 ; 1 .
Animals formerly " salted .
" 2 .
Animals formerly " salted " and subsequently reinoculated by periodic injections of gradually increasing doses of virulent blood , the maximum dose being 1000 c.c. 3 .
Animals treated as in Clause 2 , but subsequently permitted to rest for several months and then reinoculated with a small dose ( 5 c.c. ) of virulent blood .
Under the first clause , serum was obtained from a well- " salted " animal which had been twelve days , previous to bleeding , inoculated with 5 c.c. of preserved virulent blood .
Animals which were inoculated with 2 c.c. of virulent blood were subsequently inoculated with large doses of serum ( 100 c.c. or more ) .
The inoculations , in some cases , began on the day that virulent blood was injected ; in others it was delayed until the temperature began to rise , but although the total amounts given exceeded 1000 c.c. , no definite interference with the course of the disease was noticeable .
Under Clause 2 , " salted " animals were inoculated with progressively increasing doses of virulent blood .
When these animals had been inoculated with doses of virulent blood equal to 1000 c.c. they were allowed to rest for eight to twelve days , after which they were bled .
Of this serum , 500 c.c. was inoculated at one dose into a horse , which , during thirty-three subsequent days , manifested no signs of illness due to the inoculation .
When this , period was completed , it was inoculated with virulent virus and as a result died of characteristic ; horse-sickness .
No evidence was shown that the serum had in any 5 its Pathology arid Methods of Protective Inoculation .
301 way interfered with the action of the virus .
Where , however , this serum was used to inoculate animals which were already infected , a very curious change in the character of the disease occurred .
The animals became affected , usually in thirty-six hours , with hemoglobinuria , which later passed into hsematuria and ended invariably fatally , if the disease was virulent .
In two cases , however , where the disease had been induced by an attenuated virus , the hsematuria came to an end with the subsidence of the fever .
In all , this curious condition was produced by serum in nineteen cases .
I Where animals are bled into citrate solution , the plasma is of a yellow colour , but in cases which eventually became the subjects of hsematuria , I noticed , if they were bled about twenty-four hours previous to the onset of this condition , that the plasma was red coloured .
It is therefore evident that the condition has its origin in the blood .
In several cases animals , which were partially protected , became subject in a slighter degree to this complication , if they were reinoculated with virulent blood and were unable to resist it .
I This blackwater may have some relation to the blackwater fever in man .
It is generally believed in Rhodesia that blackwater does not occur as a primary disorder , but only supervenes in persons who have previously been the victims of malarial fever .
; It seemed to me that this serum might in some way be associated with a residual infection .
To determine this I inoculated a " salted " horse , which had also had repeated large injections of virulent blood , with 50 c.c. of fresh blood .
I bled it eight days later , and with 5 c.c. of its blood inoculated a clean animal , which thereafter had a very slight rise of temperature on the eighth day .
I An animal similarly treated was finally inoculated with 300 c.c. injected intravenously and 20 c.c. subcutaneously thirty-nine days previous to being bled .
When bled , the blood was defibrinated , and 100 c.c. was injected into each one of six animals .
No evidence was shown of any infectivity of the blood .
I now determined to make use of the serum from animals which , under Clause 3 , had been allowed to rest for periods over one month previous to the collection of their serum .
This serum is that which is now being used for the purpose of pro- : tective inoculation .
I have determined with regard to it\#151 ; 1 .
It possesses no curative action which in practice would be of any avail to restrain the course of the disease .
2 .
Since an injection of 100 c.c. , into one animal has absolutely no | effect in restraining the action of 1 c.c. of ordinary preserved virus inoculated subcutaneously on the other side , it does not possess any i immunising power which would be of practical value in withstanding I infection .
302 Mr. A. Edington .
South African Horse-sickness : 3 .
Its germicidal activity is extremely weak , as is shown by the following experiments:\#151 ; ( a. ) 1 c.c. of fresh virulent blood was mixed with 100 c.c. of serum , and after being kept for twenty-four hours in the ice chest was inoculated into a clean horse .
The animal had a sharp febrile reaction .
( h. ) Another animal was treated in the same way , but the serum and blood was injected immediately after being mixed .
This animal also had a reaction , but less severe than the former .
Variation of susceptibility must of course be taken into account , and , in order j\gt ; e establish this conclusion satisfactorily , a considerable nuiwber of animals would require to have been simultaneously dealt with .
( c. ) Equal volumes of serum and preserved blood were mixed and kept at ordinary room temperature for four days .
Of this mixture , 2 '5c.c .
was injected subcutaneously into a clean animal .
Fever set in after the usual period of incubation , pursued its characteristic course , and the animal died under circumstances and in the usual time which obtains after the use of pure virulent blood .
Since 1 c.c. of virulent blood mixed with 100 c.c. of serum produced a sharp febrile reaction in one animal but had practically no effect in some others , and since 1 c.c. of blood and 200 c.c. of serum , produced a reaction in another animal , it was clear that under this method also I should have to meet differences of animal susceptibility .
It was so far fortunate that preserved virulent blood acted equally well as fresh blood , so that a standard virus is easily prepared and-maintained , and by mixing the serum of a considerable number of animals I am able to standardise a large volume of serum .
I concluded , therefore , to determine the amount of serum which , when mixed with a definite amount of blood , would serve , acting in concert with the natural protective bodies in the system of the average horse , to ensure the production of the modified disease .
After fourteen days should have elapsed subsequent to this inoculation , provided a. severe reaction was not set up , I intended to re-inoculate with the same dose of virulent blood , but with a much reduced quantity of serum .
1 Again , after fourteen days , the procedure should be repeated , the dosei of virulent blood remaining a constant quantity , but the dose of serum !
being still further reduced .
Finally I intended to inoculate with !
virulent blood by itself , jl In the first three series of experiments sixteen horses were used-1 These were inoculated as follows :\#151 ; its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inoculation .
303 1st Inoculation 1 c.c. virus and 100 c.c. serum ( 10 animals ) .
2nd Inoculation 3rd Inoculation 1 c.c. 0'5 c.c. 90 c.c. 50 c.c. 0-5 c.c. virus in 30 c.c. 0-5 c.c. " 15 c.c. ( 4 animals ) .
( 2 animals ) .
c A slight variation J of the quantities was made in v- several cases .
4th Inoculation 0 * 5 c.c. pure preserved virulent blood . !
* The following shows the results obtained , and where the remark " salted " is made , it is to be understood that the animal has , at later dates , withstood enormous doses of the most virulent blood .
Animal .
Reaction .
Result .
1st .
No reaction at all ... ... ... ... .
Salted .
2nd .
Reaction to 1st only ... ... ... ... ... ... " 3rd .
No reaction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " 4th .
Slight reaction after all four ... . .
" 5th .
Reaction to 4th ... ... ... ... ... ... Died .
6th .
Slight reaction to 1st ... ... ... ... .
" 7th .
No reaction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Salted .
8th .
Reaction to 4th ... ... ... ... ... ... Died .
9th .
Slight reaction to 3rd ; after 5th ... " 10th .
Slight reaction to 4th ... ... ... ... .
Salted .
11th .
Slight reaction to 4th ... ... ... . .
\#151 ; " 12th .
Reaction to 5th ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Died .
13th .
No reaction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Salted .
14th .
Reaction to 5th ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" 15th .
Reaction to 4th ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" 16th .
Reaction to 4th ... ... ... ... ... ... .* .
" In the next experiment seven animals were used , which were inoculated as follows:\#151 ; Inoculations .
1st .
1 c.c. virus and 100 c.c. serum .
2nd .
0-5 c.c. " 25 c.c. " 3rd .
0*5 c.c. " 10 c.c. " 4th .
0-5 c.c. " 1*5 c.c. 2 had 0'5 c.c. pure virus .
The results were as follows:\#151 ; Animal .
Reaction .
1st .
Slight reaction to 5th ... ... ... .
2nd .
, , " 3rd and 5th .
3rd .
No " 4th ... ... ... Eesult .
Salted .
JJ After a large dose of pure virus , died .
304 Mr. A. Edington .
South African Horse-sickness : Animal .
Reaction .
Result .
4 th .
Slight reaction to 2nd \#151 ; Salted .
5th .
No 5 5 4rth ... .
After a large dose of pure virus , died .
6 th .
Slight " 2nd \#151 ; Salted .
7th .
55 \#187 ; 3rd . . . .
, , Note.\#151 ; Where " 5th " is mentioned , it refers to a dose of pure virulent blood .
Total animals inoculated ... ... . .
23 " " died ... ... ... ... ... ..9 " " salted ... ... ... ... 14 The tests thus applied have been of the most severe character , and despite the fact that these are only of the value of preliminary experiments , the results are extremely satisfactory .
Obviously animals have been sacrificed which , under altered methods , might have been saved , for the outcome of these inoculations goes to show that , unless some reaction has been produced during the earlier reactions , there is no certainty that an animal is protected .
Nevertheless it is equally proved that some have become highly protected without having shown any reaction at all .
The indication , therefore , has been to increase the dose of the virus used in the primary inoculations , even at some risk to the more susceptible animals .
In a subsequent series of animals this has been carried out in the following manner:\#151 ; 1st .
Inoculation 2 c.c. virus and 50 c.c. serum .
2nd . .
" 2 c.c. " 20 c.c. " Twelve animals have been simultaneously inoculated in this manner .
The reactions produced have been as follows:\#151 ; Animal .
1st Inoculation .
2nd Inoculation .
1 None .
None .
2 Slight .
Slight .
3 55 55 4 55 Severe .
5 Slight .
None .
6 55 55 7 Severe .
Slight .
8 Slight .
55 9 None .
55 10 Slight .
55 11 55 None .
12 55 Severe .
its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inoculation .
305 A Since one animal , after the first inoculation , had a severe reaction , it is evident that the limit of strength , consistent with safety , had been reached .
The reactions , in the two cases , after the second , were extremely severe , and indicate that the limit of strength of virus for that inoculation had been slightly exceeded , if a widespread scheme of operation had been intended to be carried out among animals in the open .
' These results would seem to indicate that fortified serum , e.g. , that obtained from animals which , after " salting , " have been reinoculated with large doses of virus , exerts a peculiar and definite action on the Jprus .
\lt ; i While , however , 100 c.c. of serum suffices to prevent 1 c.c. of virulent blood , when mixed with it , producing any great elevation of temperature , I have referred to a case in which a severe reaction was produced .
' Since , in another case , 200 c.c. of the same serum , with an equal amount of virulent blood , was followed by a reaction and a definite amount of protection , it is evident that the difference in f susceptibility between the latter animal and those which react slightly after 100 c.c. of serum and 1 c.c. of virulent blood is equal to 100 c.c. : of fortified serum .
Moreover , as already shown , when the virus is attenuated by its passage through less susceptible animals , such as the : donkey or cow , its effect , when used in the same dose , either by subcutaneous or intravenous injection , varies very greatly in different ; animals ; in some producing no evident reaction , in others setting up I some fever ; while , again in others , its use was followed by the onset I of the virulent disease resulting in death .
If , therefore , the admixture of serum with virulent blood is followed , I on inoculation , merely by a modified form of the disease , it must be I concluded that the serum , of itself , cannot be credited with this tesult , 1 but that a peculiar quality , existing in the animal body , and varying in I amount from animal to animal , must play an important part .
Whether I this principle is a simple body , or is a combination of several , cannot at | this moment be determined , but for convenience ' sake I would suggest I .that the name " Antagones " should be applied to it .
The term need I not be taken to imply either an antitoxic or germicidal body , but I merely to denote the " defensive " properties which are already existent I to a greater or less degree in all animals , or are produced or increased I under special stimulation .
Since thoroughly " salted " animals and donkeys can be reinoculated I and infection proved to exist in their blood for at least ten days sub-i sequent , I am inclined to look upon the protection existing in " salted " | animals as Of the nature of a " tolerance , " and to believe that true l immunity , in horses , against this disease is never acquired .
VOL. LXVir .
z

