]\gt ; 1894 .
] Electric ixtures of The a priori theory of the constant temperature of the crater is so attractive , that the author is inclined to attribute phenomenon , uot to any actual change of the luminosity of the crater , or to any wandering of the luminous area , as is seen with a long , unsteady arc , but to the refraction of the light by heated vapour .
All experiments , such as enclosing the arc in a small chamber of mica , or use of gnets , or an air , have failed to produce any effect .
A } of the of the crater while the patch revolves , has been looked for , but nothing distinguishable from changes of luminosity has been seen .
An unexpected difficulty is thus itroduced in the use of the arc as a standard of light , and one which may interfere with its use under some circumstances as a steady and continuous source of light .
The author is further examining this phenomenon , with the view of ascertaining its , and of finding practical conditions under which it is absent or ible .
VIII .
" " The Electric Strength of Mixtures of Nitrogen and Hydrogen By Miss P. G. FAWCETT .
Commumicated by Professol .
J. J. , F.B.S. Received June 21 , 1894 .
The experiments described in this paper were at Professor Thomson 's suggestion , and have been carried out with ] the advantage of his advice and help .
The immediate object of the experiments was to determlno the ectromotive force required to produce a spark between two flat pitrallel metal in a mixture of and ent proportions and at different pressures .
The used was obtained by electrolysis of water , as it was found that that obtained in the ordinary way from zinc and chloric acid was liable to contain impurities which seriousIy affected its electric The two gases were collected ' water in a graduated cylindrical gas-holder , and were allowed to stand for some hours to give them { ime mix before being put into the pparatus .
The mixture WfLf passed through sulphuric acid , and also through cotton wool to remove dust .
The ectromotive force was supplied by a battery of storage cells , each of about 2 voIts , and was measured simply by counting number of cells .
The strength the cells was measured by quadrant electrometer .
At very low pressures it was found that , unless special precautions taken to prevent the discharge anywhere except between 264 bIiss P. G. Fawcett .
Electric Strength of June 5 the opposed faces of plates , it would take a longer path , and pan between the connecting wires on the backs of the plates .
When distance was in .
, the discharge began to pass between the of the plates when the pressure was reduced to about 2 mm. In the later experiments this was prevented by using plates bedded in ebonite discs , onlyleaving exposed the faces between which the spark was intcnded to pass , and by making the connexions with lbber covered wires .
Even then , after the plates had been used for some time , the indiarubber showed signs of giving way , and a discharge occasional ] passed partly between the wires and partly between the plates .
The plates kept at the right distance apart by placing between Ihem small flat pieces of ebonite of the same thickness in Tn the earlier experiments , the plates were in an ordinary bell-jar standing on a flat surface , ] rim being greased with a mixture of -wax and vaseline .
it possible that there be some vapour given off by the grease , I arranged the apparatus so that it could be made air-tight without grease .
For this used a rather narrow bell-jar , closed at the bottom by an indiarubber stop- per , through which passed three glass tubes for the ecting wires , and for communicating with the air-pump and the gasholder .
The jar , with ibs stopper , was placed in a vessel containing 1nercury , so that the junction of the glass and indiarubber was 1nersed , the tubes being bent so that their ends came above the mercury .
The rangement is shown in the accompanying ; are the bonite discs in which the plates are embedded ; the wires , , pass through the ebonite , and are covered with diarubber throughout their length until they come out into the open air at the ends , , of the tubes , , which are sealed with sealing-wax .
of itroge and Hydrogjn .
266 Miss P. G. Fawcett .
Electric Strength of [ June 21 , .
The results ( p. 265 ) were obtained when no grease*was present , and the spark was not able to pass except between the opposed surfaces of the plates .
Distance between the plates in .
These results are represented by the continuous curves figs. 1\mdash ; 7 , in which the abscissae represent the pressure in millimetres of mercury , and the ordinates the E.M.F. in voIts .
The dotted curves in the same figures represent the means of the results of several series of observations with the earlier rangement of the apparatus , in which grease was present , and no precautions were taken to prevent the discharge passing otherwise than between the plates .
FIG. 1 .
FIG. 2 .
* There was always a small amount of rease on the stop-cock of the air-pump , but it does not seem that a ntity vould have an apprcciabl effect .
FIG. 3 .
FIG. 5 .
FIG. 6 .
Mixfures of Nitrogen and FIG. 7 .
These curves are not traced for pressures lower than about 2 mm. The two curves are nearly ideI ) tical in the case of pure nitrogen ; in the other cases , with one exceplion , that of , the discharge seems to pass more easily ) grease is present .
It will be noticed that at fairly high pressures the E.M.11 .
required to produce a spark diminishes nearly uniformly as the diminishes , but that there exists for each mixture a olitical prcssm.c at which the E.M.F. is a minimum , and that as the pressnre diminishes from the critical vaIue the .
continually increases .
the pressure is bbtly less than the critical pressure the increases with remarkable rapidity as the pressure diminishcs .
In fact , as the pressure falls by about mm. the E.M.F. mlty increasc by several hundred volts .
The critical pressure diminishes as the portion of en to Electric Strength of Mixtures of Nitrogen , .
[ June hydrogen is increased .
With spark length in .
it varies from about 11 mm. in pure hydrogen to about 5 mm. in pure nitrogen .
At high pressures E.M.F. required to produce a discharge at a given pressure diminishes continually as the proportion of hydrogen to is increased .
At low pressures the relation between the composition of the mixture the E.M.F. required to produce a spark at a given pressnre is less simple .
It is represented by the curves in fig. 8 , where the ordinates give the E.M.F. in voIts , and the ratio in which the ordinate divides the line NH is equal to the ratio of the volumes of nitrogen and in the mixture .
FIG. 8 .
The curves are given for pressures of 20 , 15 , 10 , 5 , and 4 mm. They could not be considered ftccurate for lower pressures , owing to the extreme steepness of the curves ( 1\mdash ; 7 ) , in consequence of which the E.M. ] ] ' .
, which will a spark a given low pressure , cannot be determined with any precision .
It will be seen that at the pressures 15 and 20 mm. the general lope of the curves is downwards from the nitrogen end to the hydrogen end , but that at pressures 10 , 5 , 4 the slope is the other way , that at low pressures the effect of introducing more hydrogen is in general to increase the electric strength of the mixture .
But as the proportion of ogcn to hydrogen increases from to 1 : , the electric rength does not diminish uniformly , but it may pass one or more maxima and minima .
It is , perhaps , hardly to say that the in be rded as of mixture intermediate vecn those at which vere actually made .
1894 .
] The Asymmefricat Probability Curve .
curves , especially at low pressures , must be considered rather as a convenient way of showing which dots in the figule correspond to any given pressure than as an atbempt at interpolatio1 ) .
IX .
' The Asymmetrical Probability \ldquo ; By F. .
EDGEWORTH , , D.C.L. Communicated by Sir G. G. STOKES , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1894 .
Abstract .
) The asymmetrical probability is tho second approximation\mdash ; the symmetrical probability curve being the first approximation\mdash ; to bhe of frequency which governs the set of values assumed by a function of numerous independently fluctuating small quantities .
The curve may be written ; where y is the number of errors occurring between and is the mean square of errors , and is he mean cube of errors\mdash ; errors measured from the centre of .
This form is obtained by completing the analysis which Todhunber , after Poisson , has indicated ( ' History of Probabilities , ' Art .
1002 ) ; and inrlependently obtaining a general form for the asymmetric probability curve , and deducing therefrom the Poissonian formula in the case ) tho asymmetry is slight\mdash ; the only case to which tlJat formula is applicAmong the peculiarities of the asymmetric probability curve are the want of coincidence between the arithmetic mean and the position of the greatest ordinate , and the descent of the curve at one extrcmity below the abscissa\mdash ; the ordinate appearing to denote negalive bility .
An important case of the general cnrve is forded by ] for which each of the independent elements admits of values .
The approximate form of the Binomial , obtained directly by Laplace ( Todhunter , 'History , ' Art .
993 ) , is deducible from the general theory .
The general , or mnltinomial , probability curve can always be represented by a binomial .
The principle of the asymmetric proLability curve affords an extension of the theory of correlation ated by Messrs. Galton amilton Dickson ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1886 , p. 03 ) .
rfhe symmetrical obability surface

