42 Mr. W. Galloway .
On the [ May 15 , the angles of incidence being taken as abscissae , and the intensities as ordinates ; those representing the calculated intensities being drawn with dotted lines .
The inequalities in that for the observed value with light polarised in the plane of incidence , and the thin silver film ( Fig. Ia ) would probably have disappeared if a larger number of observations had been made , the curve for the calculated value , however* corresponds very nearly with the line which would have been obtained had a smooth curve been drawn between the points given by observation .
Fig. lb gives the results with the thick silver film .
Figs. II and III represent the observations made with the steel* and speculum metal mirrors .
( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 36* p. 187 .
) These diagrams appear to confirm the general conclusion arrived at in the former paper , that although the received formulae for metallic reflection are approximately correct , they are not a complete expression of the facts of the case .
EXPLANATION OE DIAGRAMS .
la .
Amount of light reflected by silver film .
15* Amount of light reflected by double silver film* II .
Amount of light reflected by steel mirror* III* Amount of light reflected by speculum metal mirror .
A. Light polarised in the plane of incidence .
Observed .
b. " j , j , Calculated .
c. " perpendicularly to the plane of incidence* Observed .
d. " " jj Calculated* II .
" On the Influence of Coal-Dust in Colliery Explosions .
No. V. " By W. Galloway .
Communicated by R. H* Scott , F.R.S* Received May 8 , 1884* At the beginning of the first paper on this subject , which I had the honour of reading before the Fellows of the Royal Society now somewhat more than eight years ago ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 24 , p. 354 ) , I gave a short account of what appeared to-me to be a rational mode of explaining the occurrence of all great explosions in dry and dusty collieries ; and since then I have had opportunities of studying several remarkable instances of this class of phenomena , with the result that I am now more than ever satisfied with the correctness of the views which I then expressed .
It is true , as some subsequent writers , amongst whom I may name Sir Frederick Abel , F.R.S. , have observed , that coal-dust had been previously recognised as a factor in * The value of I2 for steel at an angle of 50 ' is 46 ' 14 ' , and not 42 ' 09 ' , as given in the table on p. 196 , an error for which , I regret to say , I am responsible .
1884 .
] Influence of Coal-Dust Colliery .
43 colliery explosions .
I think I may safely claim , however , that no earlier author had gone the length of crediting it with the role of principal agent , and relegating fire-damp to a secondary position .
It is also admitted , I believe , by everyone familiar with the subject , that my experiments with mixtures of coal-dust and air containing a small proportion of fire-damp were original .
Similar experiments were subsequently made by members of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers , * * * S by a committee of the Chesterfield Institute of Engineers , f by Professor Abel on behalf of the Home Office and the Royal Commission on Accidents in Mines , | and by others in this country , S by MM .
Mallard and Le Chatelier for the Commission du Grisou in France , || and by others on the Continent , all of which led to the same conclusion , namely , that air containing too small a proportion of fire-damp to render it inflammable at ordinary pressure and temperature becomes so when coal-dust is added to it .
Differences of opinion were expressed as to the actual proportion of fire-damp , the comparative fineness of the coal-dust , and the quality of the coal necessary to the attainment of this result , but the general conclusion , in every case , was the one I have stated above .
In my first paper , already referred to , I had said : " If it could be shown , therefore , that a mixture of air and coal-dust is inflammable at ordinary pressure and temperature , there could be no difficulty in accounting for the extent and violence of many explosions which have occurred in mines in which no large accumulations of fire-damp were known to exist , " and , immediately following these words , I gave what appears to me to be a new hypothesis regarding the mode of occurrence of great colliery explosions .
My reasons for thinking it necessary to show that a mixture of air and coal-dust alone is inflammable were , first , that after some * " Trans. N. of E. Inst , of Mining and Mechanical Engineers , " vol. xxviii , p. 85 .
t " Trans. Chesterfield and Derbyshire Inst. Mining , \amp ; c. , Engineers , " vol. x , Parts I and II .
+ ( a ) Report on the Results of Experiments made with samples of Dust collected at Seaham Colliery in compliance with the request of the Secretary of State for the Home Department , conveyed by .a letter , dated November 4th , 1880 .
By E. A. Abel , C.B. , E.R.S. , President of the Institute of Chemistry , Chemist to the War Department , \amp ; c. ( J ) " Some of the Dangerous Properties of Dusts .
" By E. A. Abel , C.B. , E.R.S. A lecture delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain , on Friday , 28th April , 1882 .
S " The Explosive Properties of Coal-dust , Coal-gas , and Atmospheric Air , with special reference to Mines .
" By C. E. Jones , P.R.H.S. , Chesterfield .
Read before the Manchester District Institution of Gas Engineers on the 24th of February , 1883 , || " Annals des Mines , " Ire livraison , 1882 .
44 Mr. W. Galloway .
On the [ May 15 , great explosions it was found that the flame had passed through very long galleries , containing presumably nothing but pure air , and of course*dry coal-dust in a state of greater or less purity ; and , secondly , it was impossible to account for certain other explosions , except on the supposition that they had been originated by the firing of a shot in pure air in galleries containing dry coal-dust as in the last case .
To have proved that a mixture of air , coal-dust , and firedamp is inflammably did not appear to me fully to meet the case , and it was for this reason that I made further experiments with the help of a grant made to me by the Lords of Committee of Council on Education at the recommendation of this Society .
The results have been described in some of the former papers of this series .
In making these experiments , and in drawing certain conclusions from them , all favourable to the hypothesis referred to , I was simply carrying out the details of the work then begun , and nothing more .
In former papers I referred to several great explosions which had come under my own immediate observation .
In particular I had made a very careful and complete examination of Penygraig Colliery after the explosion there in December , 1880 ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , p. 454 ) , when I found that the flame had penetrated into every working place in the mine .
The plan which accompanies No. Ill paper shows that all the working places were ventilated by what was , practically , a single current of air .
It was , therefore , open to those who attribute every great explosion to the occurrence of a sudden outburst of fire-damp , and , as the annals of mining show , they constituted a very large majority before the appearance of my first paper on coal-dust , to say that this explosion wa3 due to the same cause .
For this reason I have paid particular attention to the phenomena due to the explosion which occurred at Dinas Colliery on the 13th of January , 1879 .
I do not propose to enter into the minute details of this case , as I should to a large extent simply be repeating what 1 stated about Penygraig explosion , ' but will confine myself to those which are necessary or new .
I had frequently inspected the workings before the explosion , and I have done so at intervals of one month or less since then , so that I have been intimately acquainted with all the conditions of the mine for many years . .
I know also that no sudden outburst of fire-damp has ever been known to take place in it .
The workings were naturally very dry , the temperature ranging from 75 ' to 82 ' F. , and the floor was covered with coal-dust .
Shot firing was carried on by night when the explosion happened .
The damage done by the explosion was very great , the workings being wrecked to such an extent as to lead to their temporary abandonment .
They were re-opened after a large expenditure of time and labour , and it was only towards the end of last year that I was able to inspect the S \amp ; li* o ' GO O S Cnr 1884 .
] Influence of Coal-Du .
Mr. A. W. Blithe .
Observations on the [ May 15 , .working places A , B , C , shown in the accompanying plan , and early in the present year that I could get into those marked D , E. With the exception of some burnt hay or dried grass which I found at the point X in one of the return air-ways , I saw no traces of burning nor deposits of coked coal-dust in any of the main roadways , but I found well-marked deposits of coked coal-dust in all the working places in both districts of workings as far as I was able to penetrate .
The plan shows that the current of fresh air which came down the downcast shaft was split up into three separate currents at the points K and L. The districts A , B , C , and D , E , were thus ventilated quite independently of each other , and thus it was impossible for any outburst of fire-damp which might take place in one of them to affect the quality of the air in the other .
We are thus compelled to fall back upon some other mode of explanation in this case , and I now submit that in the present , and in my previous papers , I have brought forward sufficient evidence to show that the coal-dust hypothesis is the only tenable one .
If it be admitted , however , that this hypothesis is applicable to Dinas explosion , the conclusion is inevitable that , it is equally applicable to every case of the same kind that has ever occurred .
III .
" Observations on the Ingesta and Egesta of Mr. Edward Payson Weston during his Walk of 5,000 miles in 100 days .
By A. Winter Blithe , Medical Officer of Health for St. Marylebone .
Communicated by B. W. Richardson , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1884 .
On the 15th day of March , 1884 , Mr , Edward P. Weston finished successfully a pedestrian feat , which consisted in walking 50 miles a day , Sundays excepted , until he had traversed 5,000 miles .
The last 300 miles were walked on a level track in the Victoria Hall ; and frequent observations of the pedestrian 's pulse and respiration , \amp ; c. , were made during six days by Mr. Green , M.R.C.S. , acting under the instructions of a Committee , the active members of whom were Dr. B. W. Richardson and Dr. Ridge .
Mr. Green also made some volumetric determinations of urea for the purposes of his clinical report ; and he measured the urine , preserved the faeces , and weighed or measured all the food , whether liquid or solid .
Day by day I received the urine for detailed analysis , and at the termination of the walk I also received a jar containing the faeces collected during the five days ending at midnight , Saturday , 15th March .

