2 .
A Letter to Sir John W. Lubbock , Bart. , F.R.S. &amp;c. , " On the Stability of the Earth 's Axis of Rotation .
" By Henry Hennessy , Esq. , M.R.I.A. &amp;c. Communicated by Sir John Lubbock .
Received November 20 , 1851 .
The author refers to a communication to the Geological Society by Sir John Lubbock , in which he appeals , in support of the possibility of a change in the earth 's axis , to the influence of two disturbing causes , which appear to have almost entirely escaped the notice of Laplace and Poisson in their investigations on the stability of the earth 's axis of rotation:-1 .
The necessary displacement of the earth 's interior strata arising from chemical and physical actions during the process of solidification .
2 .
The friction of the resisting medium in which the earth is supposed to move .
With reference to the first of these disturbing causes , the author states , that in his Researches in T'errestrial Physics ( Philosophical Transactions , 1851 , Part 2 .
) , he has been led to conclusions which may assist in clearing up the question .
From an inquiry into the process of the earth 's solidification which appears to him most in accordance with mechanical and physical laws , he has deduced results respecting the earth 's structure which throw some light on the changes which may take place in the relation between its principal moments of inertia , which relation is capable of being expressed by means of a function which depends on the arrangement of the earth 's interior strata .
He then states that he has found strong confirmation of his peculiar views respecting the theory of the earth 's figure , in the experiments of Professor Bischof of Bonn , on the contraction of granite and other rocks in passing from the fluid to the solid crystalline state .
From the results of these experiments , he has been led to assign a new form to the function expressing the relation of the earth 's principal moments of inertia .
Referring to his paper for the mathematical processes by which he arrived at this result , he states that , from the theory he has ventured to adopt , it follows that , as solidification advances , the strata of equal pressure in the fluid spheroidal nucleus of the earth acquire increased ellipticity , and each stratum of equal density successively added to the inner surface of the solid crust is more oblate than the solid strata previously formed .
From these considerations alone , he remarks , it is evident that the difference between the greatest and least moment of inertia of the earth would progressively increase during the process of solidifi* cation .
It follows , therefore , that if the earth 's axis of rotation were at any time stable , it would continue so for ever .
But from the laws of fluid equilibrium the axis must have been stable at the epoch of the first formation of the earth 's crust ; consequently it continued undisturbed as the thickness of the crust increased during the several geological formations .
Thus it appears that the displacement of the earth 's interior strata , instead of having a tendency to change its axis of rotation , tends to increase the stability of that axis .
X With reference to inequalities arising from the friction of a resist .
ing medium at the earth 's surface , the author observes that they could not exist , if , as in the manner here shown , the axis of rotation coincided from the origin with the axis of figure .
In conclusion , he remarks , that if we could assume for the planets a similarity of physical constitution to that of the earth , the theorem as to the difference of the greatest and least moments of inertia of the earth would be applicable to all the planets ; and thus we should be as well assured of the stability of our system , with respect to the motion of rotation of its several members , as we are already respecting their motion of translation .
In a postscript , referring to a third cause of disturbance in the place of the earth 's axis of rotation , suggested in a letter from Sir John Lubbock , namely , the effects of local elevation and depressions at the earth 's surface , the author states ; if , with Humboldt , we regard the numbers expressing the mean heights of the several continents as indicators of the plutonic forces by which they have been upheaved , we shall readily see that these forces are of an inferior order to those affecting the general forms and structure of the earth .
If the second class of forces acted so as not to influence in any way the stability of the earth 's axis of rotation , the former class might , under certain conditions , produce a sensible change in the position of the axis .
But when the tendency of the second class of forces is to increase the stability of the earth 's axis , it would not be easy to show the possibility of such conditions as to render the operation of the other forces , not only effective in counteracting that tendency , but also capable of producing a sensible change in the place of the axis of rotation .

