.
ij 470 Sir W. Ramsay and Prof. J. N. Collie .
[ May 18 , meteorologists to form a more definite idea of the prospects of approaching seasons .
We wish to express our thanks to Dr. W. N. Shaw , F.R.S. , who has kindly assisted the work by permitting us to utilise the valuable | collection of pressure data deposited in the archives of the Meteoro- 1 logical Office .
We also owe a debt of gratitude to Messrs. W. Moss and T. F. Connolly , who have shown great zeal in completing the necessary computations and drawing the numerous curves which were required for the different stations that have been investigated .
" The Spectrum of the Radium Emanation .
" By Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , and Professor J. Norman Collie , F.R.S. Received May 18 , \#151 ; Read May 19 , 1904 .
Attempts have been made since July , 1903 , to see and map the spectrum of the emanation from radium , for at that date the conversion of the emanation into helium was observed by Ramsay and Soddy , and during the first discharge of the induction current through the emanation , it was believed that a peculiar spectrum was noticed ; indeed , three lines were persistent , and were mentioned in the communication on the subject in these 'Proceedings .
' But such attempts have uniformly failed ; at the first moment of the discharge , indeed , a brilliant spectrum has twice been observed , which soon became confused and indistinct .
It faded before it was possible to map it , and owing to the presence of impurities , generally carbon monoxide , nitrogen , or hydrogen , the special spectrum was obscured .
All that could be said was that it appeared to present some brilliantly green lines .
These experiments , however , have not been fruitless ; they have led to better knowledge of the precautions which it is necessary to take to eliminate impurities .
The arrangement of the apparatus , too , has been simplified , and the manipulation made easier .
As it is possible that others may wish to repeat the experiments , and may perhaps have even better success in mapping the spectrum , we think it well to enter into the details of the manipulation somewhat minutely , and to give a woodcut of the apparatus employed .
The stock of radium bromide ( about 109 milligrammes ) dissolved in about 10 e.c. of water in two small bulbs was attached by sealing to a small Topler 's pump .
Between the pump and the bulb there was a stop-cock , greased , of course , to insure freedom from leakage ; but in order to prevent the long contact of the emanation with the stop-cock , and its possible contamination with carbon dioxide , the mercury from 1904 .
] The Spectrum of the Radium Emanation .
471 the pump was caused to flow past the stop-cock by raising the reservoir of the pump and closing the exit tube at its lower end ; the mercury slowly leaked past the valve of the pump , passed the tap ( which was then shut ) , and so confined the space above the radium bromide by means of mercury .
As radium bromide yields electrolytic gas , containing an excess of hydrogen , the pressure gradually rose ; the mercury in contact with this gas remained perfectly bright , and showed no tendency to adhere to the glass ; the presence oi ozone thus appears to be excluded , but this excess of hydrogen will form the subject of a future communication .
The emanation was allowed to accumulate for 14 days .
The pump was exhausted until no trace of a bubble passed down the capillary exit tube .
But as even then a trace of air must have remained Fl(}-1in the barrel , the tap leading to the bulbs containing the radium bromide was turned rapidly , so as to admit a trace of the electrolytic gas into the pump and " wash it out .
" This gas was rejected .
The remaining electrolytic gas with the emanation was collected in a tube which had previously been heated to redness , and then twice washed out with pure oxygen .
The mercury in the collecting tube was then boiled , and the bubble of gas removed .
It was hoped thereby to have eliminated every trace of nitrogen .
The gas was then introduced into the gas-burette , shown in the figure , through the inverted syphon .
All the mercury was freshly filtered and pure .
The apparatus , too , was freshly constructed and heated to redness to burn out traces of dust .
The gas-burette had been washed out with alkali and with nitric acid , and then with a stream of distilled water ; it was dried by drawing through it a stream of dust-free air .
Some slightly moist caustic potash was melted on to the glass , near the sparking wires ; this was intended to absorb any trace of carbon dioxide which might have chanced to be formed during the explosion o the electrolytic gas by the burning of dust .
The rubber tube was cemented Sir W. Eamsay and Prof. J. N. Collie .
[ May 18 , ' on to the burette ; the burette was washed out twice with oxygen , and by lowering the reservoir several times the upper end was made a torricellian vacuum ; it was left thus for some time , so as to insure the removal of adhering nitrogen from the walls of the tube .
The electrolytic gas was then introduced , and exploded .
As the explosion-burette was graduated , the total volume of the gas , as well as g that of the residual hydrogen , was read .
There were 16'43 c.c. of gas ; the residual hydrogen measured P01 c.c. at normal temperature and pressure , and thus amounted to 6T8 per cent , of the total .
The volume of this gas was increased by lowering the pressure so that it was in contact with the fused potash .
It was left for more than an hour ; j the potash , of course , was wet with the water formed by the explosion .
The capillary tubes above the stop-cock of the gas-burette , which had been twice washed out with oxygen , were pumped as empty as possible , until the vacuum-tube showed only the yellow and green lines of the mercury spectrum , and the faintest trace of a hydrogen spectrum .
A .strong current was passed between the electrodes so as to heat them and expel occluded oxygen .
After this process had been repeated as long as was thought safe , until , as remarked , the hydrogen spectrum was extremely faint , the tap to the pump was closed .
The hydrogen containing the emanation was then admitted from the explosion-burette ; it was dried by passage through the narrow tube B filled with phosphoric anhydride , and it entered the bulb C , and the vacuum-tube D. This vacuum-tube was made of lead glass , with electrodes of aluminium .
It was 2-5 cm .
long , with a capillary of about 1 cm .
in length .
The aluminium electrodes were closely surrounded with glass , fused round them , so as to limit the capacity of the tube as much as possible ; it was probably under one-twentieth of a cubic centimetre .
Liquid air was next poured into the jacket surrounding the bulb 0 , and the reservoir was raised and lowered half a dozen times , so as to convey all the gas into contact with the cooled bulb .
The mercury was then raised to the level a , and the tap to the pump opened ; and while the jacket was kept replenished with liquid air the hydrogen was pumped off , until its spectrum had almost entirely disappeared , the red line being hardly visible .
The tap to the pump was then closed , the level of the mercury was raised to and the liquid air allowed to evaporate .
The bulb was so bright that it was easy to read the time on a watch .
The mercury was then raised to the level c , and the current passed .
The spectrum was very brilliant , consisting of very bright lines , the spaces between them being perfectly dark ; it had a striking resemblance in general character to the spectra of the gases of the argon group .
A direct-vision spectroscope , made to special design by Heele , with an illuminated scale for reading , had immediately before been standardised by noting the position of the leading lines of helium and 1904 .
] The Spectrum of the Radium Emanation .
hydrogen .
They were found to lie exactly on a scale which had previously been constructed .
The new lines were read as rapidly as possible , an operation which required about half a minute .
During a second reading many of the lines had faded , and the secondary spectrum of hydrogen began to appear , and rapidly grew stronger .
It was identified by throwing into a field a hydrogen spectrum through the small prism ; and it soon became so powerful as to mask the spectrum of the emanation completely .
In order to attempt to recover it , the mercury was again drawn down to , and liquid air again poured into the jacket ; the emanation again condensed , and the tap to the pump was opened , and the hydrogen removed by the pump until its spectrum was again hardly visible .
On repeating the series of operations already described , the spectrum of the emanation was seen a second time , but it was so transient that only the position of some of the lines could be confirmed .
Next day , only the spectrum of hydrogen was visible ; its secondary spectrum was strong .
The day after , the same was the case : but interposing a jar and spark-gap brought out two lines which had previously been mapped ; they were very feeble .
In the table which follows , all the strong lines which were read are given ; the degree of coincidence of those which are of known wavelength shows the approach to accuracy obtained ; the error is probably less than five Angstrom units .
Wave-length .
Remarks .
6567 Hydrogen C ; true wave-length , 6563 ; observed each time .
6307 Observed only at first ; evanescent .
5955 , , \#171 ; 5\gt ; 5805 Observed each* time ; persistent .
5790 Mercury ; true wave-length , 5790 .
5768 " " " 5769 .
5725 Observed only at first ; evanescent .
5595 Observed each time ; persistent and strong .
5465 Mercury ; true wave-length , 5461 .
5105 Not observed at first ; appeared after some seconds ; persisted , and was visible during the second examination .
4985 Observed each time ; persistent and strong .
4865 Hydrogen F ; true wave-length , 4861 .
4690 Observed only at first .
4650 Not observed when the emanation was examined again .
4630 Ditto .
4360 Mercury ; true wave-length , 4359 .
Sir W. Ramsay and Prof. J. N. Collie .
[ May 18 , 1 When the spectrum was examined two days later , besides the * hydrogen and mercury lines , there were seen 5595 , feeble ; 5105 , feeble ; 4985 , very feeble ; this was with a jar and spark-gap inter- ' posed ; the ordinary discharge showed only the primary and secondary spectra of hydrogen , and that of mercury .
Eleven days later , the emanation from the same stock of radium bromide was collected , and treated in exactly the same manner .
This time , however , an excess of conscientiousness made us continue to extract gas with the pump from the bulb C containing the frozen emanation , surrounded by liquid air , for too long a time .
Every two or three strokes of the pump collected a minute bubble , occupying about the tenth of a millimetre in length of the very narrow fall-tube of the pump , which was really a fine-bore capillary .
The yield of gas I appeared to be continuous ; and when these bubbles were examined in the dark they were brilliantly luminous .
This gas was really the emanation , which possesses a feeble vapour pressure even at the temperature of liquid air .
Needless to say , on attempting to examine | the spectrum , little was seen , for the pressure of gas in the vacuum-tube was too low .
The tube was therefore washed out with the gas which had been pumped off , and the process was repeated .
The minute bubbles which passed down the capillarj^ fall-tube of the pump were examined , and pumping was stopped when they showed a very faint luminosity in the dark .
On compressing the emanation into the spectrum-tube , the * spectrum was again brilliant , and measurements were made .
It was found possible to read the lines several times , for although the spectrum faded in less than a minute , it appeared to recover on ceasing to pass the current .
But this recovery soon failed and , as before , nothing could be detected after 5 minutes but the primary and secondary spectra of hydrogen .
Npw the tube was practically vacuous before warming the bulb containing the emanation ; no current would pass ; but it is , of course , possible that the gas carrying the emanation had not been perfectly dried in passing through the tube B , containing phosphoric anhydride ; any water-vapour would have condensed in the cooled bulb C , and would only slowly have vaporised into the vacuum-tube .
On arriving there , it would give the hydrogen spectrum .
Another possibility is that it may have come out of the electrodes ; for it has been frequently noticed in glowing out a vacuum-tube with aluminium electrodes that even after all trace of hydrogen has been removed by passing the discharge so as to heat the electrodes , and by pumping , the hydrogen spectrum has reappeared on admitting a trace of one of the gases of the argon group , and passing the discharge for a longer time ; but the intensity of the spectrum which replaced that of the emanation may perhaps warrant the supposition that hydrogen as well as helium is one of the products 1 1904 .
] The Spectrum of the Radium Emanation .
, of the disintegration of the emanation .
This , however , is very doubtful , and judgment must be suspended until more satisfactory ?
evidence is forthcoming .
The lines read were :\#151 ; Wave-length .
Remark 8 .
6350 Not observed before ; faint .
5975 Observed before ; faint .
5955 55 5 ' 5890 Not observed before ; faint .
5854 )\gt ; 55 " 5725 Observed before ; fairly strong .
5686 Not observed before ; faint .
5595 Observed before ; strong and persistent .
5580 Not observed before ; faint .
5430 " \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 5393 55 55 55 5105 Bright ; persistent ; observed before .
4985 55 55 55 55 4966 Not observed before ; bright , but transitory .
4640 Transitory ; possibly 4650 and 4630 , which were seen before as distinct lines .
The line 4966 was particularly brilliant at first , but it soon assumed secondary importance .
Some lines which had previously been observed were not seen ; they are 6307 , 5805 , 5137 , and 4690 .
An attempt was made to obtain the spectrum with a jar and spaik-gap ; but only hydrogen and mercury were to be seen .
The resistance soon became very high , and there was danger of piercing the vacuum-tube .
Previous attempts in conjunction with Mr. Soddy gave lines with wave-length 5725 ( jar ) , 5595 ( no jar ) , 5105 ( no jar ) , 4985 ( no jar ) ; the line 5585 was observed three times , and 5105 twice previously .
The lines 6145 and 5675 mentioned in our last paper ( April , 1904 ) were not seen , unless the latter is identical with 5580 .
It may perhaps be mentioned that the line 5595 was seen by Pickering in the spectrum of lightning , and was not identified with a line in the spectrum of any known gas ; it is said to have been a very strong line , of intensity 30.* ... .
There can be no doubt that the lines given are the chief lines in the | visible spectrum of the emanation ; as for the pressure , the volume of emanation was about 1/ 30,000th of a cubic centimetre , and the capacity of the vacuum-tube , say , l/ 20th ; this would make the pressure about 1 / 10th of a millimetre .
It may have been twice as much , for the numbers given are merely estimates .
It may be remembered that , at the Chemical Congress held in Paris * ' Astropliysical Journal , ' 1901 , vol. 14 , p. 36S .
476 The Spectrum of the Radium .
[ May 18 , in 1900 , it was suggested that no element should receive a name until its spectrum had been mapped .
Of course , the converse does not follow , that , after the spectrum of an element has been mapped , it should receive a name .
The " emanation from radium , " however , is a cumbrous expression , and sufficient evidence has now been accumulated that it is an element , accepting that word in the usual sense .
It is true that it is only a transient element , and ought in justice to be called a compound ; but of what 1 It stands on a wholly different plane to any known compound in the amount of heat with which it parts during its spontaneous change , and in the peculiar electrical ] phenomena which accompany its transformation .
It is a gas ; it | follows Boyle 's law ; as Rutherford and Soddy have shown , it resembles the gases of the argon series in its indifference to chemical reagents , for it not merely withstands the prolonged action of magnesium-lime at a red heat , but also , as Ramsay and Soddy have proved , prolonged sparking with oxygen in presence of caustic potash .
Its molecular weight has been found to be nearly 200 , and , if it is monatomic , that number would also express its approximate atomic weight .
Now , it appears advisable to devise a name which should recall its source , and , at the same time , by its termination , express the radical difference which undoubtedly exists between it and other elements .
As it is derived from radium , why not name it simply " exradio " 'l Should it be found that the emanation , which is supposed to be evolved from thorium , is really due to that element , and not to some other element mixed with thorium in exceedingly small amount , a similar name could be given , namely , " exthorio .
" If the existence of actinium as a definite element is established , its emanation would appropriately be named " exactinio .
" It is unlikely that others will be discovered , but , if they are , the same principle of nomenclature might be applied .
It should be stated , in conclusion , that Mr. Soddy collaborated in the experiments preliminary to this successful mapping of the spectrum ; had he not been obliged to leave England , he would , no doubt , have shared whatever credit may attach to this work .

