Sn Account of some LExteriments gton coloured ShaMowsb lty Lieawtenant-General Sir Benjamin Thompson , Caunt oJ : Rumford , F. R. $ .
Iv a Letter to Sir Jowph I3anks Bartv P*R S Read February go , 1:79Wo DEAR SIKfi. .
, 8 INCE my last letter , being employed in the prosecutlon M my experiments upon light , I was struck with a very beau tifulb and what to me appeared to be a new appearance .
De -sirous of comlRaring the intensi-ty of the lightSaof a clear sky by day , with that of a common wax candle , I darkened -my rooms and letting the daylight from the nowrtha coming throtlgll a hole near the top of the window-shuttwer , fall at an angle of about 70 ' upon a sheet of very fiIl-e white paper , I placed a burning wax calldl-e in such a position that -tsvrays fEll upon the same paper , and as ear as I could guess , in the line of re flection of the rays of daylight from without ?
when inter posing.a cylinder of wood about half an inch in di-am-eter , before the centre of the paper , and at the distance of about tw3 inches from its surfaceS I %7aS much surpriwd to find that the two shadows pro3ected by the cylinder upon the paper , instead of being merely shades without colour as I expectedSthe ore of themg that which , corresponding with the beam of daylight was illumirlated by the candle , vas yellozu U while the other corresponding to the light of the candlen and consequent ; lie il luminated by the light of the heaverls , was of the most bea tiful blue that it is possible to imagine .
This appearanceS which was not only unexpectedf but was really EI1 itself in the llighest degree striking and beautiful I found , llpon repeated trials , and after varying the experiment in every way I could think of , to be so perfectly permanent , that it is asbsolutely im possible to produce two shadows at the same time from the same body , the one answering to a-beam of daylight , and the other to the light of a candle or lampn without these shadows being colouredn the one yellow and the other blue .
The experiment may very easily be made at any time by day , and almost in any place ?
and even by a person not in the least degree versed in experimental researches .
Nothing more is necessary for that purpose than to take a burning candIt into a darkened room in the day time , and open one of the wlndow-shutters a littleS about half or three quarters of an inch for instance ; when the candle being placed upon a table or stand or given to an assistant to hold , in such a situation that the rays from the canelle may meet those of daylight from without , ab an angle of about 40 ' , at the surface of a slieet of nvhite paper , held in a proper position to receive them any solid opaque bocly , a cylinder , or even a finger , held before the paper , at the distance of two or three inchesS will project two s\#163 ; ladows upon the papern the o-le lulue , and the other yellowt If the candle be brought rlearer to the paper7 tlaSe blue shadow will become of a deeper huen and the yellow sTladow will graciually grow fainter ; but if it be removed farther off the yellow shadow will become of a deeper colourn and the 1z1ue shadow will become fainter : and the candle remaining stationary in the same place , the same variel ; ies in the strength of the tints of the coloured shadows may be produced merely by operling the window-shutter a little more or less , and rendering the illumination of the paper by the light from without stronger or weaker .
By either of these means , the coloured shadows may be made fto pass through all the gradations of shade , from the deepest to the lightest , and vice versa ; and it is not a little alnusing to see shadows , thus glowing with all the ; brilliancy of the purest and most intense prismatic colours , then ?
assing suddenls through all the varieties of shade , preserving in all the most perfect purity of tintn growing stronger and fainter , and vanishing and returning at colnmand .
With respectto the causes of the colours of these shadowsg there is no doubt but they arise from the dlfEerent qualities of the light by which theyare illuminated a but how they are produced does not appear to me so evident .
That the shadow cor-responding to the beam of daylight , which is illutninated by the yellow light of a candle , should be of a yellowish hue , is not surprising but why is the shadow corresponding tcaV the light of the candle , and which is illuvminated by rlo other light than the apparently white light of the heavensn blue ?
I at first thought that it might arise from the blueness of thesky S but finding that thei broad daylight , reflected from the roof of a neighbouringhouse covered with the whitest new falletl snow , produced the same blue colour7 and if possible of a still more beautifulw tint , I was obliged to abWndon that oplnlon .
Toascertain with some degree of precision the real colollr of the light emitted br a candlen I placedd a lightedwas-candleB well trimmed , in the open air , at mid-dayS at a time when the vound was deeply covered with new fallen snow , and the heaverls were overspread with white clouds a when the flame of the candle , far from being whitea as it appeaxs to be when vieved by aight , was evidently of a very decided yellow -colour , not e-ven approaching to whiteness .
The flame of an ARGANAD}S 1aR1P , exposed at the same time in the open air , appeared to be of the same yellow hue .
But the most striking manner of showing the yellow hue of the light iemitted by larnps and callcllesn is by exposing them in the direct rays of a bright lneridian sun .
In that situation the flame of an ARGANDSS lamp , burning with its greatest brilliancy , appears in the form of a dead yellour semi-transparent smoke .
How transcendently pure and inconceivably bright the rays of the SU11 are , when compared to the light of any of our artificial illuminators , may be gathered from theiresult of this experiment .
It appearing to me very probable , that the difference in the whiteness of the tvo kinds of light , which were the subjects reif the foregoing exl ?
eriments , might , some how or other , be the occasion of the different colours of the shadows , I attempted to produce the same effects by employing two artificial lights ; S3f different colotlrso and in this I succeeded completely .
In a room previously darkened7 the light from two burning ulax candles being made to fall upon the white paper at a proper angleS in order to form two distinct shadows of the cyliIadern these shadows were founcI not to be in the least coloured , but upon interposing a pane of yellow glass ap- ; p.roaclling to a faint orange colourS before one of the candlest one of the shadows immediately became yellown and the other blaxe .
When two ARGAND}S lamps were made use of instead of the candless the result was the same ; the shadows were Collstantly and very deeply colouredS the one yellow approaching to orange , and the other blue approaching to green .
I imagined that the greenish cast of this blue colour was owing either to the want of whiteness of the one lightn or to the orange hue of .
the otherS which it acquired from the glclss .
When equal panes of the same yellow glass were interposed before bolh the lights , the white paper took an orange hue , but the shadows were to all appearance withouts the least tinge of colour t but two panes of the yellow glass being afterwards interposed before one of the lights , while only one pane remained before the atlier , the coloalrs of the shadows immediately re turned .
The result of these experiments havitig confirmed my suspicions that the colours of the shad-ows arose from the di*e-rent degrees of whiteness of the two lights , I now endeavoured by bringing daylight to be of the same yellosu tlnge with candle lightn by the interposition of sheets ofcoloured glasS to prevent the shadows being coloured w ; hen dayli$h-t andS candle light were together the subiects of the experiment ; and : in this I succeeded- .
I was even able to reverse the colours of the shadows by causing the daylight to be of a deeper yellow thanthe candlelight .
Ina the course of these experiments Iobservedl , that differelat shades of yellow given to that daylight produced verydiXerent awnd often quihte unexpected effects : thus one sheet of theyellow glass interposed before the lfeam of daylight , changed the yellow shadow to a lively violetP olourS and the : blue shadow to a light greera X two shect o\#163 ; t the -Sme glass nearlydes-troyedthe c-olours of both the shaclows ; and three sheets changed the shadow which was Koriginally trellow to blue , and that which was blue to-a ptirplish yellow. .
co our .
When the bearn of d-aylight was made to pass through a ... sheet of blue glassa the colours of the shadowsS the yellow as well as the bluea were improved and rendered in the highest degree clear and brillia:nt b but when the blue glass was placed lefore the candlen the colours of the shadows were very much *. .
mpalrec. .
I1 &lt; order to see what would be the consequence of rendering the carldle light of a still deeper yellow , I interposed 13efore it -a sheet of yellow or rather orange-coloured glass , when a very unexpected and most beautiful appearance took place ; the colour of the yellow shadow was changed to orallge , the blue shadow remained unchanged , and the whole surface of the paper appeared to be tinged of amost beautiful violet colour , ap proaching to a light crimson or pirlk l almost exactly the same hue as I have often observed the distant snowy tnountains and valleys of the Alps to take about sunset .
Is it not more than probable that this hue Is in both cases produced by nearly the same cornbitlations of colollred light ?
in the one case it is the wlaite snow ilIuminated at the same time by the purest light of the heavensn and by the deep yellow rays from the west ; and in the othern it is the white paper illuminated by broad daylight , and btr the rays from a burning candleg rencered still lmore yellow by being transmitted through the yellow glass .
The beautiful violet colour which spteads itself over the stlrface of the paper will appear to the greatestpadvantage9 if the pane of orange-coloured glass be held in such a manrzer before the candIey that only a part of the paper half of it for instance , be affected by it , the other half of it remaining white .
To make these experiments with more colzvenience , the paper , whichfimay be about 8 or so inches square , should he pasted or glued down upon a flat piece of board , furllished svitl a ball and socket upon the hinder side of it , and mounted upon a stand ; and the cylinder should be fastened to a small arm of wood , or of metal , projecting forward from the bottotn of the board for that purpose .
A small statldf capabIe of being macle higher or lower as the occasion requiresS should likewise be provided for supporting the candle f and if the board with the paper fastened upon it be surrounded with a broad b]ack frame , the experiments will be so much the more striking and beautiful .
For still greater convenience I have added tvvro other stands , for holding the coloured glass through which the light is occasionally made to passf in its way to the white sur-face upon which the shadows are projected .
It will be hardly laecessary to add , that in order to the experiments appearing to the greatest advalltage , all lightf which is laot absolutely necessary to the experiment , must be carefully shut out .
Having fitted up a little apparatus according to the above directions , merely for the purpose of prosecuting these inquiries respecting the coloured shadows , I proceeded to make a great variety of experiments , some with pointed views , and others quite at random , and merely in hopes of making some accidental discovery that might lead to a knowledge of the causes of appearances whichsstill seemed to me to be enveloped in much obscurity hnd uncertainty .
Having found that the shadows correspollding to two like hIDCGXC IV e p wax candles were coloured , the one blue , and the other yellowS by interposing a sheet of yellow glass befbre one of them , I now tried what the effiect wollld be when blue glass was made use of instead of yellown and I fotknd it to be the same the shadows were still coloured , the one blue , and the other yellow with the diSerencen however , that the colours of the shaslows were reversed , that which , with the yellow glassa was beforeu yelIow being now bluea and that vjThich was blue being yellow .
I afterwards tried a glass of a bright amethyst colollr , and was surprised to find that the shadows still contirlued to be coloured blue and yellow .
The yellow , it is true , had a elirty purple cast ; but the blue , though a little inclining to greeny was nevertheless a clean .
briglit , decided colourv LIav-ing no other coloured glass at hand to push these particular inquiries fartllerS I now removed the candles , and openxng two holes lIl the upper parts of the svindow-shutters of twoR sleighbouring windows I let into the room from above two qbeams of light from different parts of the heavens , and placing the instraluent ln such a manner that two distinct shadow$ were prqected by the cylinder upon the paper , I was entertained by a sccession of very amusing appearances .
The shadows were tirlged with an infinite variety of the most unexpected , and often most beautiful colours , which continually varying sometines slowly , and sonetillles with inconceivable !
rap-idityf afbsolutely iSascillated the eyes , and comuanding the most eager attentlon , afforde-cl an enjoyment as ew as t was besvitching .
It was a windy day with flying cloudSf an- &lt; l-it seemed as if trery cloud that passed broalght with it another complete successiol ] of varying hues , and most svrmonious tintse lf any colours could besaiLd to predominate it was purples X lttta11 the srareties of browns and almost all the other colours I ever remembered to have seen appeared in their turns , md there were even colours which seemed to me to be perfectly rlew Reflecting upon the great variety of colours obserwred in these last experiments , mantr of wheh did not appear to have the least relation to the apparent cfolours of the light by which they were produ-ced ) I began to suspect that the colours-of the shadows -might , in many casesn notwithst-aliding their appa-rent lvrilliancy , be merely an optical deception , owing to contrast , or to some effect of the other neighbouring colours upon the eye .
To determine this fact by a direct experiment , I pro &amp; ceeded in the following mannerf Having , by making use of a flat -ruler instead of the cylinder , contriv-ed to render the shadows much broadern I shat out of the room every ray cf daylight , and prepared to make the experiment with two ARE GAND)S lamps , well trimmed , and ; which were both made to burn with the greatest possible brilliancy ; and having assured myiself that the light they emitted was precisely ; of the same colour , by the shadows being perfectly colotwlrless which wereprojected upon the white papet I directed a tube about 12 inches long and near an inch in di-ameter linXed NYith black paper , against the centre of one of the broad shadows , and l ; ooking through this tube with one eye while the other was closed I kept my attention fiX-ed upon the shaclow , while an assistant repeatedly interposed a slleet of yello &gt; J glass be forethe lamp whose light corresFponded to the shadow I observed , and as-often removed it .
The result vf the expera meant was verysstrikingS and filly confirmed mysllspicions Qe with respect to the fallacy of many of the appearances in the foregoing experiments .
So far from being able to observe any cliange in the shadow upon whicti my eye was fixeda I was not able even to tell when the yellow glass was before the lamp and when it was notX and though the assistant often exclaimed at the striking brilliancy and beauty of the blue colour of the very shadosY I was observing I could not discover in it the Ieast appeararlce of any colour at all .
But as soon as I removed xny eye from the tuben and contemplated the shadow with all its neigllbouring accomparlimentsg the other shadows-rendered really yellow by the effect of the yellow glassS and the white paper which had likewise from the same cause acquired a yellowish hue , the shadow in question appeared to me , as it did to my assistant , of a beautiful blue colour .
=I afterwards repeated the same experiment with the apparently blue sha_ dow produced in the experiment with daylight and candlelight , and with exactly the same result .
How far these experiments may enable us to account for the apparent blue colour of the sky , and the great variety of coS lours which frequently adorn the clouds , as also hat other useful observations may be drawn from them , I leave to philosophers opticians7 and painters to cietermine .
In the mean time , I believe it is a new discovery at least it is utldoubtedly a very extraordinary fact , that fthe eyes are not always to be believedn even zvzth re.spect to the presence or absence of colours .
I cannot finish this letter without mentioning one circumstance which}8 struck me very forci-bly in all these experimerts upon coloured shavdows , and that is , the most perfect harmony whicIi always appeared to-subsist between the colouxs , whatever they were of the two shadows ; and this harmony seemed to me to be full as perfect and pleasing +hen the shadows were of different tints of brown , as when one of them was blue and the other yellow .
In short , the harmony of these colours was in all cases not only ery striking , but the appearances were altogether quite enchantingv and I never found any body to whom I showed these experiments whose eyes were not fascinated with their bewitching beauties .
It ls , howeverS more than probable , that a great part of the pleasure which these experiments afforded to the spectators arose Eom the continual changes of colourn tint , and shade , with which the eye was amusedf and the attention kept awake .
We are used to see-ing colours fixed and unalterable , hard as the solid bodies from which they come , and just as motlor less , co-nsequentlydead , un-interesting , and tiresome to the eyebu ; t intllese experiments all is motion ) life , and beautya It appears to me very probable- , that a further prosecution of these ; edxperi:ments upon coloured shadows maynot only leadr to a knosYledgeA of the real rlature of the harmony of coloursn or thepeculiar circumstances upon which that har m-ony depends &gt; lbut that it may also enable us to construct instrum:-entsfor prodWucing that harnzony , for the entertainment of the eyes , ina lnanrler similar to that in which the ears are entertained by musical soun=ds .
I know that attempts has already been made forthat purpose ^ but when I consider the means employed , I arn not surprised that they did not succeed .
Where the-flowing tide , the varying swell , thecrescen.d.o .
ifs wanting colours must ever remain hard , cold , are inanimate masses I am very sorry that my more serious occupations cto not at present permit me to pursue these most entertaining inquiries Perhaps at some future period I may find leisure TQ resume them .
Munichp I am , &amp; c lSt MaRch , I 79ffi

