]\gt ; On the Specific Inductive of Sample of Highly Purified Selenion .
By O. U. VONWILLER , B.Sc. , Demonstrator in Physics , and W. H. MASON , B.Sc. , Deas-Thomson Scholar in Physics in the University of Sydney .
( Communicated by R Threlfall , F.R.S. Received January 18 , \mdash ; Read February 14 , 1907 .
) General Resutts of the Measurements .
For the purpose of the electrical measurements , the selenion , purified as described in B. Threlfall 's paper , was cast into the form of a circular plate about 15 cm .
in diameter and 1 cm .
thick .
To make the , the selenion was heated until thoroughly liquid , which occurred at a temperature between 20 and 23 C. , then poured into an open zinc mould previously warmed , and allowed to cool at the air temperature .
Under the circumstances the selenion assumed the vitreous form , * the fracture being conchoidal and the specific gravity at C. When hard , the end surfaces of the plate were carefully ground flat and parallel to each other , the grinding being done with carbormldum powder .
After the completion of each set of measurements the plate was broken into small pieces to ascertain if the material was homogeneous hout ; on no occasion were any air bubbles found which could in any way affect the accuracy of the measurements .
Determinations of the specific inductive capacity of the selenion forming the plate so prepared were made by the absolute electrometer method , with alternating electric forces having a frequency of about 50 per second ; and by a method using electric oscillations with a frequency of 24,000,000 per second .
Table I gives the results obtained , the measurements made with the selenion in the dark .
The investigation shows that to the order of the accuracy of the measurements for the sample of selenion tested , the specific inductive capacity is the same under alternating electrical forces having a frequency of 24,000,000 per second , as it is under forces whose frequency is only 50 per second .
This result for the sample of selenion is similar to that found for the specimen of glass mined by the same methods as those described in this paper by Pollock and Vonwiller .
* Saunders , ' Journ. Phys. Chem vol. 4 , 1900 .
' Phil. Mag June , 1902 .
Messrs. Vonwiller and Mason .
On the Specific [ Jan. 18 , Table I.\mdash ; Values of Speoific Inductive Capacity .
For the plate of selenion used in the final determination of the specific inductive capacity by the electrometer method , the specific resistance with the selenion in the dark was found to be ohms at C. and ohms at C. ; these values are to be considered provisional only , more exact determinations extending over a wider range of temperature are now in progress .
The specific resistance decreased considerably when the selenion was exposed to light .
The comparatively high conductivity imparted to the plate by the very thin reddish film which forms on surfaces of vitreous selenion , though only exposed to air , gave considerable trouble until its cause was discovered .
For all measurements it was found necessary to first remove this film by the careful use of glass paper .
The specific gravity of the material was found by weighing , in air and in water , a whole plate and a fragment after the plate was broken up ; the results are identical , giving as the value of the specific yravity at and C. In the report of the Melbourne Meeting of the Australasian Association for the Adyancement of Science ( 1900 ) , Madsen published values of the specific inductive capacity of selenion obtained from measurements with the same sample of selenion as that used in the present determination , but with a different form of absolute electrometer .
The mean value given is ; we are , however , satisfied that some source of constant error remained undetected in the measurements , and that the values are considerably too low . .
Pirani* measured the specific inductive capacity of commercial selenion and obtained values between and .
Sufficient data are not given to enable us to estimate the degree of accuracy attained in this measurement .
* Inaugural Dissertation , Berlin , 1903 .
1907 .
] Inductive of Highly Puri.fied Selenion .
Measurement of the Specific Iulnctive Capacity by the Absolute Electrometer Method .
The apparatus used was that employed by Pollock and Vonwiller in measuring the specific inductive capacity of a specimen of glass , and fully described by them , only change being the substitution for the central swinging brass plate of an aluminium plate of similar dimensions , the lower surface being scraped truly plane ; this enables the value of the electrostatic pull to be determined with slightly increased accuracy .
The results are given in Table II , where the overload represents the mass in grammes whose weight counterbalances the electrostatic pull .
Table II.\mdash ; Results of Absolute Electrometer Method .
Mean value of at C. Measurement of the Specific Inductive pacity with High Frequjncy Alternating Electric The method used was that employed by one of us in observing the variation in the dielectric constant of water at low temperatures The arrangement of the apparatus is shown in .
Electrical oscillations were set up in the two wire circuits ( the primary ) and befc ( the secondary ) by the oscillatory discharge of the condenser ; Rutherford solenoidal magnetic detectors being placed in the two circuits , and the primary alTanged ' Phil. Mag June , 1902 .
Vonwiller , ' Phil. Mag June , 1904 .
Messrs. Vonwiller and Mason .
On the Specific [ Jan. 18 , to be in tune with the condenser vibration .
The dimensions of the secondary circuit and the capacity of the condenser were chosen as described in the former paper , so that the maximum variation in the demagnetisation of the Rutherford detector in the secondary , was obtained for a given percentage change in the capacity of the condenser .
This condenser consisted of two parallel circular brass pJates 1 cm .
in diameter and cm .
thick whose dista1lce apart could be altered .
The lengths , were each made 200 cm .
( altered to 215 and 205 cm .
in the second and third experiments , Table III ) , and as the plates of were moved apart , deflections produced by the two detectors were observed for each position .
In fig. 2 is shown the variation of the secondary deflection ( corrected to a FIG. 2 .
standard primary deflection ) as the distance between the plates is changed : an inspection of the figure shows that a position of high sensitiveness is obtained when the plates are mm. apart .
The ) acity in this position was calculated by Kirchhoffs being the radius of the plates , their , and their distance apart .
'Abhandl .
, ' p. 1907 .
] Inductive of Highly Purified Selenion .
If a plate of a dielectric of radius less than and thickness is placed between the plates of the condenser ( the condenser touching the dielectric ) the capacity , if is less than Sr , is being the specific inductive capacity of the dielectric .
A preliminary calculation , assuming to be the same as at low frequencies , gave dimensions for the selenion plate which would give the same capacity as was obtained en the plates were about 9 mm. apart , with air as the dielectric , and also satisfy the conditions that should be less than and that should be not much less than about , the sensitiveness of the test being decreased as is decreased , owing to the part of the capacity due to the selenion becoming small in comparison with the whole .
A plate of selenion of suitable dimensions was then prepared in the manner already described and placed between the condenser plates and a number of deflections of both detectors observed , single sparks used and the mean ratio of the two deflections determined .
The selenion was then removed and the plates approached until two positions were obtained , for one of which the ratio of the deflections was slightly above , and for the other htly below , that obtained with the selenion , the correct position being obtained by interpolation .
The results of the observations are given in Table III .
Table III.\mdash ; Results of Electric Oscillation Method .
Mean value of at C. In order to make absolutely certain that when the selenion was between the plates the corresponded to those obtained with air between the plates at a distance apart of about mm. , and not 11 or 20 the detleetions would have the same value ( see fig. 2 ) , were taken with Messrs. Vonwiller and Mason .
On the Specific [ Jan. 18 , one of the condenser plates not touching the selenion , but with a small thickness of glass or mica between , the capacity being thus reduced .
It was found then that the deflections were increased , indicating a nearer approach to resonance , as was to be expected , and the rate of increase was such as to indicate that the position corresponded to that with air between the plates at a distance apart of about 9 mm. rather than 20 mm. , where the deflections would also increase with a decrease of capacity .
The frequency of the electric oscillations set up in the system was determined with sufficient accuracy from the dimensions of the secondary circuit when in tune with the primary .
W. B. Morton*gives , then , where is the distance from the centre of the bridge to that from the centre of to the capacity of when the two circuits are in tune , the capacity per unit length of the parallel wires .
and the wave-length of the electric oscillations ( see fig. 1 ) .
From fig. 2 it is seen that the position of maximum resonance occurs when the plates are 1 cm .
apart , being then as is equal to being the distance between the wires ( 30 cm .
) and the radius of the wire cm cm .
, hence is found to be 1260 and the frequency about 24,000,000 .
Measurement of the Resistance of the Selenion Plate .
Considerable difficulty has been experienced in determining the resistance of the selenion plate .
For the measurement of the resistance to have direct connection with the measurements of the specific inductive capacity , it was essential to employ one of the plates actually used in the experiments to determine the latter constant , and this prevented the selenion being cast into a plate of more suitable form for the resistance measurements .
After some trials , it was found that good contact with the surfaces of the selenion plate could be obtained by coating them with gold leaf and lightly pressing brass plates against the gilt surfaces .
A direct deflection method with a sensitive galvanometer and a voltage of 900 gave no current that could be detected , indicating a specific resistance greater than ohms at C. ; finally the method shown diagrammatically in fig. 3 was adopted .
Here represents the selenion plate whose resistance is being measured , and a resistance of about 1000 ohms ( determined accurately by a direct deflection method ) , consisting of a capillary tube containing alcohol , with platinum wires sealed in at the ends making contact with the liquid .
These resistances were 'Phil .
Mag May , 1897 .
1907 .
] Inductive Capacity of Highly Purified Selenion .
connected to one pair of quadrants of a Dolezalek electrometer , the other pair being earthed ; the other terminal of was joined to the positive pole of a battery of accumulators of which the negative pole was earthed , while the other terminal of was connected as shown to a potentiometer , the ends of FIG. which were joined to the poles of a single accumulator , the positive earthed .
The E.M.F. between earth and the end of , joined to the potentiometer , was varied until the potentials of both pairs of quadrants were the same ; if this E.M.F. is and that of the battery joined to the selenion is Instead of altering , the end of !
joined to the potentiometer was sometimes earthed and the difference of potential etween the quadrants determined by observing the steady deflection of the needle ( the instrument having been previously calibrated by means of the potentiometer ) ; if this difference of potential is , we have being extremely small compared with E. By this method the resistance of a plate cm .
in diameter and cm .
thick , was found to be 11 ohms at C. and ohms at C. , the values of the specific resistance at these temperatures being , therefore , ohms and ohms respectively .
The value of in different trials varied from 250 to 600 volts ; varied from to volt ; as the maximum sensitiveness obtained was a deflection of 1 mm. for volt , a very high degree of accuracy could not be obtained with a plate of the above dimensions .
The measurements described in this paper were made in the Physical Laboratory of the University of Sydney .

