]\gt ; mitted.adium CConstant hdvice wdium CCommunicated beceived JElectri.oLAN , University CDubhn ositive cgiving anegative charge tVery dutionsIt wound tater washed approduced basbing oater ather 1iquids aknownThe experiments oectrification .
Read June 25 , 1914 .
) ifferent substances gagnitu.deof tepend.ubst.ance approached.trength oution increased , hatdegree ooncentration.ution.cases tufficient vocity , rops aroken ucquire autions ouite moder.tren.ffect wrops ovater.owed tinto.apositive cnvestig.ations oectrification produced ipraying oiquids bownsend , when sashing takes pnade bandSimpson Snvestigations honnection wject wfound imemoir bmann , *Lenard , 'Wied .
Ann vol. 46 , p. 684 ( 1892 ) .
J. J. Thomson , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 37 , p. 341 ( 1894 ) .
Simpson , 'Phil .
Trans vol. 209 , p. 379 ( 1909 ) .
SKahler , 'Ann .
der Phys vol. 12 , p. 1119 1903 ) .
Townsend , 'Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc vol. 9 , part 6 1898 ) .
J. J. Thomson , 'Phil .
Mag p. 352 ( 1902 ) .
Kosters , 'Wied .
Ann vol. 69 , p. 12 1899 ) .
Eve , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 14 ( 1907 ) .
SS M. Bloch , 'Comptes Rend vol. 145 , p. 54 1907 ) .
Rey , ' l'Ionisation de l'Air par les hutes d'Eau , ' , 1912 .
at any point were a mixture in varying proportions of drops varying over a considerable in size .
The accidental occurrence of a few arge drops would make a very great difference in the results of any measurement .
Ihese difficulties were not encountered to such an extent if the receiving vessel was set immediately under , or only very slightly in advance of the point at which the breaking-up of the water occurs .
A rain of fine drops descended from that point without any intermixture of large drops .
The variation of size amongst the drops collected by the receiving vessel in this position was not very serious .
Measurements could therefore be made with a fair degree of accuracy .
The size of the drops falling into the reoeiver could be varied by varying the strength of the air-blast and by varying the height of the dropper .
If the strength of the air-current is increased , or if the height from which the water falls is increased , the size of the drops falling into the receiver is diminished .
But we are restricted to a certain small range , for if the airinsuffi iCurrent increased beyond.certai oarried forwardto sxtent teyond acertain point theamongst tpray finto tecting vpite oheseof tater drops occurred Ieceiving vovedd soccurred isize opray which foint ahich tuplimitations iound produce aariation iforward sapture targer sized drops which harried forwardsome distance bobservations wnthis wincreasedThe arrangement opparatus shown iiagram ( doptedidue orops feceiver isdue trops i of each drop .
Two points must be considered at this stage , ( 1 ) the number of drops falling into the receiver per second may va1y throughout the experiment , and ( 2 ) the number of drops per unit area into different parts of the receiver may be different .
Before adopting any counting method these points must be examined .
A ruled surface exposed to the drops for a certain small time at different stages of the experiment showed that if any error due to the first cause was present , it was masked by the ordinary irregularities to which the experiment is subject .
The same remark applies to observations on the second point .
These irregularities , however , were not so great as to prevent the counting experiments being made with a fair degree of accuracy .
Two observations were always made , one at the beginning and one at the end of each experiment , of the number of drops falling per square centimetre per second into the centre of the receiver .
Generally , these observations agreed fairly welL In any case in which there was a considerable discliepancy the observation was rejected .
eceiver wrved nropper weighed paper waced iaswhich tdropper wcting woted beans oquare , squares wrted.oted araIt whout 2utes Treading oxperiment asheet oomthe shortness owhich ixposed itroduction donds OedureElectri c of the electrometer .
The number of drops which had fallen on each square quickly counted and noted .
From the two observations a mean value was obtained from which it was possible to calculats the total number of dropa which entered the receiver during the time of the experiment .
Hence the mean volume of the drops could be found .
The observations taken in one experiment are quoted here so as to give an indication of the magriitudes involved:\mdash ; Duration of experiment , .
nutes .
Electrometer deflection . . .
143 divisions positive .
Capacity of electrometer and vessel . .
292 cm .
Sensibility of electrometer 846 divisions per volt .
Positive charge received E.S.U. E.S.U. Weight of paper ( 1 ) . .
Weight of water collected Charge per cubic centimetre of water E.S.U. E.S.U. Mean number of drops per square centimetre in 10 seconds 3 Area of receiving vessel 660 sq .
cm .
Volume of each drop An examination of this Tablet shows that , in spite of certain irregularities , there is a steady increase in the value of the charge per cubic centimetre as the size of the drops gets smaller .
This is illustrated by plotting the values of the charge per cubic centimetre against the reciprocal of the radius of the drops .
In the graph ( fig. 2 ) , the points obtained from the foregoing Table are shown by the small circles .
( The points marked by crosses will be the agreement is quite as good as could be expected considering the difficulties of the experiment .
It is that by some constantly occurring experimental error .
the mean value of the constant , as determined by these experiments , is erroneous .
But there can hardly be any doubt as to the general law expressing the electrical separation that occurs when water is splashed .
This may be stated being the charge , positive on the water , and the increase in area of the water-surface .
Second lllqthod : Distilled Water .
In order to test the generality of the result obtained above , another set of experiments was undertaken , using a different method of breaking up the water .
Different forms of spraying apparatus were tested , and after some trials an ordinary.scent- spray was adopted .
When driven by air under pressure , this spray gave a copious supply of water in fine drops .
The rops carried baryingquantities oater given bkunit vextreme.easy.ases ieffect wscreened against asystem bification o friction against tffecIn tecond pnitude o water effect whiqh we are investigatin [ sign and leave the nozzle with an equ quently if the rate of charging of rdinary sspray iittedTh ]ement opparatus .
water due to effects of this kind may It will be observed that the charge contributedto the water by the sprayer changes as the pressure increased .
No detailed investigation of this point was made .
Another set of experiments was now necessary in , order to estimate the size of the drops corresponding to different values of The method employed in the previous experiments was adopted , but modifications were necessary owing to the very great number of drops that had to be.dealt with .
The sprayer was set up in a closed space so that the was uare metres Tutter wonnected eentimetre pecond Iovered wrevent evaporation.umbergrapb reading that thich tasof drops pquare metre wounted , power microscope beingopen wnown vrder ofnot disturbed braughts Tpray fupon ashutter which cometimes urpose These measurements gumberp posing asheet onBlectrifi o ured iknown tufficient dosition asmall vessel aeigh tater which the average v Considerable difficulties were experienced in making these measurements .
At first , the number of drops counted per second varied in an irregular manner. .
Afterwards , when various devices were adopted to secure steadiness , this variation was reduced somewhat , but it was difficult to entirely eliminate it .
A great number of experiments were made and the mean of the results taken .
It is believed that the result is fairly correct ; .
certainly experiments made at different times agree amongst themselves .
Table \mdash ; Volume and Charge of Sprayed rops .
Results calculated from the best observations are given below .
paration and storage of which no specially high.degree of purity is aimed at .
Ordinary tap-water and some solutions were also examined by the methods of splashing and spraying .
No systematic investigation of either was attempted .
The results obtained harmonise with those Lenard , Sir J. J. Thomson , and other workers .
Dublin tap-water gives an effect 1/ 8 or 1/ 10 that of distilled water Strong solutions give no charge , weak solutions giving positive or negative values , depending on the solute and the concentration .
Electrification of by Splashing .
543 Bxperiments on the Blectrificat of the Air from the Sprayer .
The .
drawn from the sprayer was examined in order to find how the negative was carried .
It is hoped to give a detailed account of these experiments later , when the lesults are more complete .
A rkume may be { given here , however .
The air was found to contain large numbers of ions of both signs , with , of course , an excess of negative .
There appears to be present a number of different classes of ions , each class having a definite mobility .
The values of the mobility vary from that of the ordinary atmospheric ion to that of the ion discovered by Langevin , investigated by Pollock and McClelland and Kennedy .
Thus the largest ion present has a value for the mobility in a field of 1 volt per centimetre of cm .
second .
This is true for both positive and negative .
The ion coming next in order of size has a mobility about three times this value .
There appears to be no intermediate class .
Agai , .
at the other end of the scale we find ions of both signs with a mobility of about cm .
per second , apparently identical with the ordinary atmospheric ions .
also present negative ions of mobility 3 cm .
per second , but no indications of positive ions of that mobility .
Between the small and the large ions there are groups of ions of various mobilities which have not been fully investigated .
It is probable that the excess of negative on the air is present mainly as small ions , as it is in the number of kqmall ions that the negative .
charge predominates most markedly .
Conclusion .
The simple connection demonstlated in this paper between the tion due to spraying and splashing and the in area of the liquid surface concerned should help to throw some light on the of the electrification in these cases .
A further inveStigation of similar effects , and especially a detailed investigation of the nature of the electrification of the air in the different cases , must be completed before an attenlpt is made to put forward a theory of the effect .
In conclusion , the writer wishes to express his indebtedness to Prof. McClelland , who suggested this research , for his continued help and interest during its progress .
*Langevin , 'Comptes Rend .
, p. 232 ( 1906 ) .
Pollock , 'Le Radium , ' vol. 6 , p. 129 1909 ) .
McClelland and Kennedy , 'Roy .
Irish Acad. Proc vol. 30 , sec. , p. 72 ( 1912 ) , and Kennedy , ' .
Irish Acad. Proc vol. 32 , sec. , p. 1 ( 1913 ) .
\mdash ; , VOL.

