A Paper was read , entitled , " On the Variable Intensity of Ter ?
restrial Magnetism , and the Influence of the Aurora Borealis upon it .
" By Robert Were Fox .
Communicated by Davies Gilbert , Esq. V.P.R.S. The author gives the results of a series of observations on the vi ?
brations of the magnetic needle , which he undertook last summer , for the purpose of ascertaining whether the intensity of its directive force is affected by the changes in the earth 's distance from the sun , or by its declination with respect to the plane of its equator .
He observed that the magnetic intensity is subject to frequent variations , which are sometimes sudden , and of short duration .
These anomalies he has been unable to refer to any obvious cause , except when they were accompanied by the appearance of the aurora borealis , which evidently affected the needle on many occasions .
He also thinks that the vibrations of the needle became less rapid with a moist atmosphere , and more so when it was very dry .
Changes of the wind and snow storms appeared also to be attended with fluctuations in the intensity of the magnetism .
He endeavoured to as ?
certain whether there existed any decided and constant difference in the directive force of each pole ; conceiving that , on the hypothesis of a central magnetic force , the north pole of the magnet would , in these northern latitudes , be acted upon with much greater energy than the south pole .
From his observing that the relative intensity of the two poles is not always the same , he infers the probability of the earth 's magnetism being derived from the agency of electric currents existing under its surface as well as above it , and that the rapid fluctuations in its intensity are owing to meteorological changes .
The author is led to conclude that the aurora borealis is an electrical phenomenon , and that it usually moves during the night nearly from north to south , and in an opposite direction during the day ; that it is of the nature of positive electricity ; and that its elevation above the earth is much greater than a thousand , and perhaps thousands of miles .
Prinled by Ilichard Taylor , Uecl JLion Court , Fleet Street

