I next applied the apparatus to the compression of a-riform fluids .
A gasometer B , was filled half full of water ; it was then inverted , and placed in receiving tube A , as represented in fig. 8 : it was found that , under a pressure of 5oo atmospheres , the whole of the air was taken up by the water ; but none of it was given out when the pressure was taken off .
As it might be supposed that even glass was pervious to water by such a force , a small phial was made air-tight , by fitting into its neck a well-ground glass stopper .
It sustained pressure of 5oo atmospheres without change , and was perfectly dry within , although it remained under that pressure i.5 minutes .
It was next subjected to a pressure of Soo atmospheres , and when taken out was found to be crushed to atoms .
In the course of my experiments on the compression of atmospheric air , by the same apparatus which had been used for compressing water , I observed a curious fact , which induced me to extend the experiment ; viz. that of the air beginning to disappear at a pressure of 5oo atmospheres , evidently by partial liquefaction , which is indicated by the quicksilver not settling down to a level with its surface .
At an increased pressure of 6cc atmospheres , the quicksilver was sus-4 pended about 8 of the volume up the tube or gasometer ; at So atmospheres , it remained about 3 up the tube ; at iooo atmospheres , up the tube , and small globules of liquid began to form about the top of it ; at 1200 atmospheres , the quicksilver remained 2up the tube , and a beautiful transparent liquid was seen on the surface of the quicksilver , in quantity about -1 part of the column of air .
The gasometer , fig. 9 , was at another time charged with carburetted hydrogen , and placed in the receiving tube A , fig. 8 , with its mouth immersed in the quicksilver C ; it was subjected to different pressures , and it began to liquefy at about 40 atmospheres , and at 1200 atmospheres the whole was liquefied .
These instances of apparent condensation of gaseous -fluids were first observed in January , 1822 ; but for want of chemical knowledge requisite to ascertain the exact nature of the liquids produced , I did not pursue the inquiry further ; and as the subject has been taken up by those who are eminently qualified for the investigation , I need not regret my inability to -make full advantage of the power I had the means of applying .
I have been desirous oft ascertaining the law of condensation of gaseous fluids , at the high degrees of pressure ; but as the apparatus for the compression of water , which requires to be made , sensibleat ; its -lower extremity , is by no means adapted to show the higher degrees of compression of gases , a suitable apparatus requires to be made for such experiments ; which , I shall hope to make the subject of a future communication .
t'541 1 XXXII .
On the progressive compression of water by high degrees of force , with some trials of its effects on other fluids .
By J. PERKINS .
Communicated by W. H. WOLLASTON , M. D. V.P.R.S. May 25 .
Read June 1Z5 , 1826 .
TH E apparatus suggested by me in a paper read before the Royal Society the 22nd of June , 1820 ; on the compressibility of water , having now been completed , I will first describe its construction , and then give an account of the experiments already made with it .
Fig I. In the accompanying drawing , Plate XX .
is a view of the compressing machine , and fig. 2 is a sectional view of the same , of which the following is a description .
A , is a cylinder of gun metal , the length of which is 34 inches , and its external diameter 13j inches ; B , is the receiver of the compressor , being it2 inch in diameter , and 29 inches long ; C , is the barrel of a steel pump , 82 inches long and it inches diameter , on the outside of which a screw is cut 7 inches in length , by which it is finally united to the compressor ; D , is the chamber or caliber of the pump , -I of an inch in diameter , and continuing of the same size throughout the whole length , excepting a conical enlargement at the bottom and top of the pump ; the bottom cone receives the valve B when opening inwards ; F , the piston or plunger of steel , most accurately fitted to the bore of the pump , having its lower extremity hollowed out to a semi-elliptical cup , with a very thin edge , the expansion of which during the descent of the piston occasions it to be water-tight , without need of any stuffing .
The lever G , which in this view passes behind the pump , is part of the apparatus for indicating the force of compression .
Fig -3 , represents a section of the indicator .
A , is a cylindrical tube , communicating with the receiver of the compressors and of such dimensions that its area is equal to of a square inch .
Hence the number ofpounds pressing on its piston by means of the lever G , indicates directly the number of atmospheres used for compression ; since the arms of the lever are in proportion of io to i , and Its weight counterpoised by means of the hook 0 and weight , fig. 2 , every pound in the scale .
represents to atmospheres of compressing force .
For the purfpose ofmeasuring the diminution of bulk that waiter undergoes , a glass piezometer , fig. 4 , is used for containing it .
This consists of an elongated bulb , nearly four inches in length and about -A of an inch in diameter , with a tube of regular bore , 9 inches long and about I of an inch diameter internally .
By weighing the quantity of quicksilver contained in thisinstrument when full , and ascertaining the -weight contained in a given length of the tube alone , it was found that the whole content was equal to a tube of go0 inches long , having the diameter of the contracted part of the piezometer .
Fig. .
, shows a section of the bottom of the piezometer , -containing -a small disk of steel D , and above it a delicate hair spring ; C , of sufficient strength to retain its position after being pressed upwards in the tube , so as to serve as register of the degree of compression that has been effected .
Fig. ii , is a-phial containing a small quantity of quicksilver , in which the piezometer , full of water , with its register and disk , is to be inverted for experiment , as shown fig. io .
The piezometer so arranged was then placed in the receiver of the compressor , which was filled with water , and kept at a temperature of 50 degrees FAHRENHEIT .
The steel pump C , was next screwed firmly into its upper end , which is 5 an inch longer than the screw or body of the pump , entering a recess of the cylinder of the compressor , of about I of an inch in depth , which it exactly fitted , Between the head of the -pump and the bottom of the recess was placed a collar of lead , for the purpose of making a more perfect joint .
The frame supporting the piston and pump handles was next -screwed to the cylinder ; about an inch of the upper end of the pump was bell-mouthed , the better to receive the piston , which risesquite out of the pump .
Two desirable objects are effected by the piston leaving the chamber at each stroke , viz4 1st..It allows the water to fill the pump in the simplest manner ; 2nd .
The piston at each stroke .
receives a portion of the oil , which floats on the surface of the water in the cup M , which is of great consequence in high pressure .
The piston F , contracts as it enters the bell mouth of the pump , which , togethermwith the pressure of the water against the interior of the piston , causes it to fit as perfectly as the leather cup in the barrel of an air pump .
All -being ready , the pump was set to work , and as soon as the intended pressure was known to be effected by use of the valve , the pressure was gradually taken off , by unscrewingthe pump C. The piezometer being removed from the compressor , the indicating spring wasfound raised in the tube , more or less , according to the power employed .
The greatest amount of which this apparatus admitted was iooo atmospheres ; being equal to 14,000 pounds to the square inch .
In order to estimate ( though less accurately ) higher degrees of compression , I had another piezometer , fig. 6 , eight inches long , ground internally , perfectly cylindrical , and stopped at its upper extremity , with a flat disk of glass cemented into it .
This tube I filled with water , and subjected it to a pressure of 2000 atmospheres .
After repeating this experiment a great number of times , the average of the result showed that the column of water , 8 inches long , was compressed 3 of an inch , or I'part of its length .
For the purpose of representing the law of condensation of water by different degrees of compressing force , I had a plate , 2 , engraved , with parallel lines of of an inch apart , tor which the measure taken in each experiment was immediately transferred .
After the results of 5 experiments had been thus laid down for every io atmospheres , as far as ioo , a curve line has been drawn through the mean of them , as near as could be done-to preserve a regular curve line .
It may readily be seen , that there are various irregularities observable ; but as the original records remain upon the plate , those who , choose to theorize upon the subject , have the means of drawing any other curve that may suit their views of the true law of condensation .
With the same apparatus , I also made experiments on the compression of other fluids .
The most remarkable result I obtained was with concentrated acetic acid which , after compression with a force of 10oo atmospheres , was found to be beautifully crystallized , with the exception of about Gi part of fluid , which , when poured out , was only slightly acid ,

