]\gt ; XI .
Note on an Extension of the Comparison of Magnehc Disturbances with Magnetic Effects inferred from observed Terrestrial Currents ; and Discussion of the Magnetic Efects inferred from Galvanic Currents on days of Tranquil Magnetism .
GEOROE BIDDELL AIRY , Astronomer Royal , F.R. Received December 22 , ] 869 , \mdash ; Read February 3 , 1870 .
IN a communication to the Royal Society , which was honoured by publication in the Philosophical Transactions for 1868 , I described the methods and gave the results of comparing the Magnetic Disturbances which be expected as consequent on the Terrestrial Galvanic Currents recorded by the self-registering galvanometers of the Royal Observatory of Greenwich , with the Magnetic Disturbances actually registered by the self-registering magnetometers .
The comparison was limited to seventeen days ( 1865 , October 5 and 31 ; 1866 , October 4 ; 1867 , Apri14 : 5 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 , May 4 , 14 , 28 , 31 , June 1 , 2 , 7 , 24 ) , various days having been omitted in consequence of a doubt on the uniformity of the clock-movement of the -barrel , which afterwards proved to be unfoumded .
The results of the comparison were exhibited in curves , engraved copies of which are given in the volume of publication .
I expressed my opinion that it was impossible to doubt the general causal connexion of the Galvanic Currents with the Magnetic Disturbances , but that some points yet remained to be cleared up .
As soon as circumstances permitted , I undertook the examination of the whole of the Earth-currents recorded during the establishment of the Croydon and Dartford Wires ( namely from 1865 April 1 to 1867 December 31 ) , as far as they should appear to bear upon this and similar questions .
For this purpose the days of observation were divided by Mr. GLAISHER into three groups .
Group No. 1 contained days of considerable magnetic disturbance ( or days of considerable galvanic disturbance , which are always the same ) , including , besides the seventeen days above-mentioned , the thirty-six days of the following list : , April 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , May 14 , 17 , July 7 , 15 , August 14 , 19 , 26 , September 8 , 16 , 28 , October 4 , 6 , 10 , 12 , 14 , November 1 ; 1866 , August 11 , 23 , September 8 , 9 , 12 , 13 , 17 , 18 , 25 , October 6 , 7 , 10 , 30 , November 26 ; 1867 , ; making in all fifty-three days of considerable magnetic disturbance .
Group No. 2 consisted of days of moderate magnetic disturbance , and of these no further notice was taken .
Group No. 3 contained the days of tranquil magnetism , and the discussion of these will form the principal part of the present Memoir .
The comparisons of the additional thirty-six disturbed days were made in every respect by the same process as those of the seventeen days in the former paper ; the operations of every kind were directed , as before , by Mr. GLAISHER ; and the results are exhibited in the same way , in culves , drawn Assistant in the Magnetical and Meteorological Department of the Royal Observatory .
While these curves to the examination of the Royal Society , as presenting to the Society the evidence on which conclusions as to the relation between the galvanic currents and the magnetic disturbances must rest , I remark that the class and completeness of the evidence which they afford appear to be precisely similar to those offered by the curves appended to the First Memoir , and that the necessity for multiplying copies of them is not , perhaps , very pressing .
The conclusions arrived at in the former investigation were these:\mdash ; 1 .
The general agreement of the curves , especially in the bold inequalities , is very striking ; particularly in the curves relating to Northerly Force .
2 .
The small irregularities in the curves of galyanic origin are more numerous than those in the curves of magnef , ic origin .
3 .
The irregularities in the curves of galvanic origin usually precede , in time , those of magnetic , especially as regards Westerly Force .
4 .
proportions of the magnitudes of rise and fall in the curves often differ sensibly , especially as ards Westerly Force .
5 .
The Northerly Force appears , on these days of magnetic storms , to be increased ; whereas general experience leads us to expect that it would be diminished .
These conclusions aro all supported by examination of the curves formed from the new investigations ; I am still unable to suggest any explanation of the 2nd , 3rd , and 4th , and I still offer them as subjects worthy of the most careful inquiry .
In considering the possibility of explaining nny of them by instrumental causes , it appeared to me that the only one , for the effects hich there could be any opening , is , fault in the DeclinationMagnetometer .
By the courtesy of the Committee of the Kew Observatory , I was permitted to compare the Greenwich Declination-Photograms with the Kew DeclinationPhotoglams , and I found them absolutely identical .
I therefore abandon the expectation of .
the conclusions as the effect of instrumental error .
On the 5th conclusion , much light will be thrown by the examination of the phenomena of days of tranquil magnetism .
I now proceed with the discussion of the curves exhibited by the Earth-current Photograms on days of tranquil nagnetism .
No comparison was made here between the lesults of the Earth-curlent Curves and Magnetometer Curves ; my object being merely to examine the , as regards diurnal inequality , of the Terrestrial Galvanic Currents , or rather of the Northerly and Westerly Magnetic Forces which those currents might be expected to produce .
It was necessary that the process to be employed should be precisely equivalent to that used on the days of magnetic disturbance ; but there was advantage in changing the form .
For , where every individual disturbance was to be depicted , it was riecessary to measure every individual ordinate by two different scales ; here , where the mean of ON TERRESTRIAL GALVANIC CURRENTS .
results for the same nominal hour on numerous days was to be used , it was better to measure the ordinate ( whether of the or of the zero formed by eaking connexions ) by one scale ( a scale of inches was in fact used ) ; to take the means of all corresponding to the same hour ; and then to multiply the means by the two factors obtained from the theory explained in the former paper .
This being done for the two Galvanic Curves , the results combined in the way explained in the folYner paper to exhibit the Inferred Northerly Force and the Infelred Westerly Force .
The general multiplier of the geometrical factors used in the former investigation was determined tentatively , to satisfy this condition , that on the whole the magnitudes of the of the ordinates of the curves representing Inferred Northerly Force and Inferred Westelly Force should be sensibly equal to the similar magnitudes in the curves given by the ConsideJing it as proved that the great disturbances are really prorluced by the galvanic currents , it is evident that we have thus a fairly accurate scale for converting indications into netic f ( referred , as is done all through , to the total horizontal netic force as unit ) , which will also apply accul.ately to the days of tl.anquil magnetism .
Also , the zeroindications being formed in the same way for the disturbed and the tranquil days , any elror which we may discover in the zeros for tl.anquil days , or in the references of the ordinates to those will apply to the zeros or references of disturbed days .
I now proceed with the numerical treatment of the observations of the tranquil days .
The readings in inch-measures of the galvanic ordinates for each nominal hour being grouped by months , and , where there were observations in the same months in different years , the diffelent being combined , the means were taken , and were converted into Magnetic Forces by the following formulae:\mdash ; In the scale of Horizontal-Force of Horizontal is replesented inches ( Introduction to vich Magnetical and Meteorological Observations , 1866 and ) ; and for the graduation of ' ' Scale for Dartford the value graduation of Horizontal-Force Photogram ( Phil. Trans. 1868 , p. 470 ) , or ( p. 469 ) must be used .
number reduced gives for Scale for Dartford , of Force inches .
Similarly , for Scale for Croydon , of Horizontal Force inches .
For Scale for of Horizontal Force inches .
For Scale for Croydon , of Force inches .
With these elements , Tables were prepared for conyerting inch-measures into measures of Horizontal Force .
In the original adaptation to base-lines below the photographic curves , the measures with and , both used atively , were to be added , to form Northerly Magnetic Tendency ; and the measures with taken positively and taken negatively were to be added , to form Westerly Magnetic Tendency .
In the present operations , in which all measures were taken from the photographic base-lines , which reversed the direction of measure for Croydon , was to be applied to the complement of actual measure of ordinate to 5 inches , and to the actual measures of ordinates .
I have entered into these minutiae with the view of facilitating any future reference to the calculations*preserved in the Royal Observatory .
The reading for the zero of each curve ( or the indication when the galvanic communications are broken ) is found by taking the mean of a group of such zeros , as far as there appears to be no probability of instrumental change ; and these readings are treated in the same way as those for the ordinates of the curves .
Subtracting these mean zeros from the mean monthly ordinates at each nominal hour , the first Tables of Hourly indications of the Magnetic Effect of Galvanic Currents are formed .
It is important to observe that all the numbers have the positive sign .
It will be remarked that , in a few instances , the register has been defective at one or two hours ; in those cases it has been thought best still to use the registered hours , though imperfect in number , in the formation of means .
The number of days employed to form the means for different hours is thus somewhat variable , as is indicated by the list at the bottom of the Tables .
The " " Means for the whole day\ldquo ; will appear again , in a following Table , and will explain an important difficulty .
the original calculations , by a mistake , was applied to the actual measures of ordinates , and to the complements of measure to 5 inches .
The error was corrected by changing the signs of all the ultimate results .
ON TERRESTRIAL GALVANIC CURRENTS .
On constructing curves of each month , with the northerly and westerly tendencies for coordinates , it appeared desirable to eliminate some of the irregularities by a systematic process .
The numbers in each ordinate , for any month , being arranged in order , and extended as necessary by repetition of the first terms of the series , the means of adjacent numbers were taken to form a second series ; the means of adjacent numbers of the second series to form a third series , and so on .
This operation was repeated six times .
It will be proper to examine the effect of this process upon periodical terms of different orders .
The inequalities which we seek being essentially periodical with respect to one day , the expression for the inequality at the hour may be expressed in the form Confining our attention to the cosine of the general term ; three successive terms in the series for hours , for the hour , the hour , and the hour , will be cosine cosine cosine ; then , taking the means of the adjacent terms , and taking their means , we arrive by this double operation at the expression cosine cosine { And , repeating the operation six times , we obtain cosine cosine { The argument remains unaltered ; but the coefficient is diminished , not much for , but very much when is large , as for instance , ; which makes cosine It appears therefore that the effect of this process is .
practically to annihilate the advanced terms of the series , and to diminish the earlier terms in different degrees .
And , when we have formed a smoothed series by the process described , and resolve it into terms depending on the arguments , \amp ; c. , we must , in order to find the terms of the same kind in the original or unsmoothed series , multiply the terms found by the following factors : The first , by secant ; The second , by secant ; The third , by secant ; and so on .
And the effects of these ought , if possible , to be introduced into the curves which we may form , using the smoothed terms for ordinates ; an introduction , however , which will not in practice be easy .
The two following Tables are formed by smoothing the numbers in Tables I. and II .
, by the process described above .
ON TERRESTRIAL GALVANIC CURRENTS .
The next step of treatment was , to resolve the series of terms for each month into a diurnal , a semidiurnal , and a tertio-diurnal senes .
With such numbers as we have here before us , I have found the following process very convenient .
I take the numbers for the Westerly Inequality in January as an example .
Arrange the numbers in two columns , to and to , side by side , take the difference of for double diurnal , and the sum ( when orrected by subtracting its mean ) for double semidiurnal .
For convenience , the numbers may be left in the double form .
Half the mean above-mentioned will be the true mean of the twenty-four hours .
The tertio-diurnal term.will contribute no part to the semidiurnal , but it will contribute a part to the diurnal .
To find its value , arrange the diurnal terms ( which I shall now call ' uncor1ected ' ) in three columns of eight hours each ; take the means of the corresponding numbers , which will be the tertio-diurnal terms , and apply them negatively to correct the diurnal terms .
A quarto-diurnal series would readily be formed from the semidiurnal series by the same process by which we have formed the semidiurnal from the original numbers ; and the semidiurnal would be corrected as in the operation for correcting the diurnal .
But the numbers would be small , and would scarcely repay the trifling trouble .
The numbers thus found ought to be multiplied by ; and then the diurnal numbers ought to be multiplied by secant , the semidiurnal numbers by secant the tertio-diurnal numbers by secant The following Tables exhibit all the results .
TABLE Diurnal Magnetic Inequality in North Direction , infelred from Galvanic Earth-Currents .
The unit is o Horizontal Magnetic Force .
ON TERRESTRIAL GALVANIC CITRRENTS .
TABLE VI.\mdash ; Diurnal netic Inequality in West Direction , inferred from Galvanic ents .
The unit is of Total Horizontal Magnetic Force .
-SS be multiplied by be lultiplied by It must be observed that the investigations of any one month are totally with the investigations of every other month .
Bearing this in mind , and remarking the strong similarity in the laws of the numbers ( under each division of the Table ) in proceeding from month to month , with change in the magnitude of the numbers and small change in the epochs of the argument evidently depending on the season , it is impossible to doubt that these numbels are real , the true representation of a galvanic and consequent magnetic action , with remarkable diurnal variation , in the surface-materials of the earth .
In every month there is a constant term of considerable magnitude ( in reference to the scale of forces before us ) towards the North .
Of the origin of this we can give no certain account ; but it may not improbably arise from the different oxidabilities of the terminal plates .
The variations of magnitude probably depend on the changes which were made from time to time in the earth-connexions .
In any case , there is no reason to doubt that the same term exists in the exhibition of forces on days of great disturbance .
And , referring to the tabular values of these constant terms , and to the apparent increase of northern force in the disturbed days as measured by the scales at the sides of their diagrams , it will be seen that the magnitude of these constant terms fully explains the apparent increase in northerly force which was remarked in the discussion of the magnetic effects of earth-currents on the days of great disturbance .
The last of the apparent anomahes , which exhibited itself in that discussion , is therefore entirely removed .
In every month there is a constant term of still greater magnitude towards the west .
And , on referring to the diagrams applying to the days of great disturbance , it will be seen that there is in them a greater increase of force to the west , well corresponding in magnitude to that larger constant term .
The peculiarities of the law of diurnal inequality will be well seen in the diagrams attached to this paper .
The general type of the curve is a double lobe , somewhat modified in one or two months , but always preserving the duplicity .
lt must be remembered that these curves , which are formed by use of the smoothed numbers , are slightly inaccurate in regard to the more rapid inequalities .
Neither in magnitude nor in law are these inequalities , consequent on the galvanic currents , competent to explain the ordinary diurnal inequalities of magnetism .
The discussion of the galvanic currents on the Croydon and Dartford Lines may now , perhaps , be considered as exhausted .

