On the mutual Action of the Particles of Magnetic Bodies , and on the Law of Variation of the Magnetic Forces generated at different Distances during Rotation .
By S. H. Christie , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Read February 15 and 22 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 71 .
] The results obtained by the author , described in a former communication , when a copper disc was made to revolve under a magnetized needle , appearing to him not likely to lead to an accurate knowledge of the law of magnetic attraction , developed during rotation , from the effect of lateral attraction ; he was induced to resume the inquiry , substituting a ring for a disc , expecting that , as no lateral forces would here be called into action , the results would be more uniform , and in this expectation he was not disappointed .
One of the first phenomena encountered by him in this research , was a very great diminution of magnetic force , when a ring of the same weight was substituted for a disc ; and pursuing this point of inquiry , he found that in all cases of solution of continuity , not only by cuts in the direction of radii from the centre , but in concentric annuli or otherwise , there is always a great loss of force , the magnetism of the whole being always much greater than the sum of that of the parts .
He describes in detail these experiments , and the apparatus used for them .
His method of estimating the intensity of the force developed , was by suspending the body , set in rotation by a revolving magnet , by a wire , and preserving a constant velocity of rotation in the magnet , to note the time when the velocity acquired by the disc , was just destroyed by the torsion of the wire , and the disc just began to revolve in a contrary direction .
Applying analysis to the dynamical problem arising , he thence deduces the intensity of the force urging the suspended body .
Applying the resulting formula to the experiments , he finds , in almost all cases , a small diminution in the intensity of the force as the arc of rotation increases , which he attributes to a very minute degree of magnetism accumulated in the disc , and retained by it till the revolving magnet comes round again .
In reasoning on the experiments detailed , Mr. Christie concludes that the greatest developement of magnetism in a disc , subjected to the action of revolving magnets , takes place when the axes of the magnets are vertically under points bisecting the radii , and that the magnetism decreases very rapidly as they approach the edge ; thus indicating that for a full development of magnetism , a continuity of substance , in all directions from the point acted on , is principally requisite .
This result is corroborated in a striking manner by the effect produced by concentric circular cuts in the disc , leaving the interior attached to the exterior in several places .
On successively destroying these points of connexion , a very great diminution of force is perceived .
The effect of removing , by a circular concentric cut , the interior of a disc , appears to be , to destroy or prevent the developement of a quantity of force directly proportional to the mass removed , the magnets acting at a constant difference from the centre ; and reasoninfrom this and other phenomena , Mr. Christie concludes that the reduction of the disc , by concentric and radiating cuts , into very small portions , though not actually to powder , would render its magnetism ; quite insensible .
The author next proceeds to investigate , by experiments of the same kind , the law of variation of the magnetic force regarded as depending on the distance of the revolving magnets from the suspended body , which in this case was a cylindrical annulus of copper , about 1 inch in breadth , 10 inches in internaldiameter , and ; inch thick , weighing 32-375 ounces troy ; and the axes of the magnets were made to revolve during the whole series of experiments , with an uniform velocity of five turns per second , exactly under the middle of the breadth of the annulus , being fixed vertically with their south poles upwards .
He assumes , first , that the action of each magnet may be referred to a single point near its extremity ; secondly , that the action may also be referred to a single point or pole in the copper ring , somewhat in arrear of the point vertically over the magnet , as a consequence of the principles proposed by other writers on the same subject ; and , lastly , that the mutual action of these poles on each other is inversely as the 4th power of their distance .
Assuming then a formula with indeterminate co-efficients expressive of these conditions , and determining them by comparison of the assumed with the observed forces , he finds that the effect of a variation of distance from an inch to 21 ( which causes a diminution of force from 1982-5 to 11*375 , the ratio of nearly 200 to 1 , ) can be represented within a 40th of the whole force , in the extreme case where the observations are liable to the greatest errors , and in all other cases to the 100th part of the force ; so that he considers this law as established by experiment .
The same operations give the values of the assumed constants ; and it may be remarked that these agree very nearly as deduced from different experiments , and that as a mean result , we may state the distances of its pole from the extremity of each magnet , at 105 thousandths of an inch ; and the distances by which the pole of the disc is in arrear of that of the magnet , with the velocity employed , at about four tenths of an inch ; and the introduction of this element gives a considerable increase of coincidence between observed and computed results .
The author next proceeds to apply similar processes of assumption and calculation to the case where the magnets were made to revolve horizontally under the ring , with their poles of the same name adjacent .
In this case his observations also lead to the conclusion of a law of force , varying ilversely as the 4th power , instead of the inverse square of the distance , between the poles of the magnets and the corresponding poles in the ring .
He now reversed the experiments , suspending the magnets over the ring in a vertical position , and making the ring revolve below them till the magnets had attained a state of equilibrium , between the force of the disc in one direction , and that of torsion and their own directive force in the opposite .
The same result is still obtained from this experiment , viz. a variation of the force as the inverse 4th power of the distance .
Mr. Christie next enters into an analytical investigation , having for its object to ascertain how far the principle of time being required for the developement of magnetism will account for the phenomena ; and the conclusion to which he arrives is , that it will do so satisfactorily .
In the course of these investigations , he is led to conclude that , in certain cases , a retrograde rotation in the suspended disc might take place ; and suggests the great confirmation such a fact , if observed , would afford to this theory .

