Mr. J. Norman Lockyer .
On New Star in Auriga .
407 February 4 , 1892 .
1 Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.O.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Farrer Herschell , Baron Herschell , was admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the New Star in Auriga .
Preliminary Note .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received February 4 , 1892 .
From a note in ' The Times ' of Wednesday , February 3rd , I learnt that a new star had been discovered in the constellation Auriga , and that photographs had been obtained at Greenwich on Monday night .
Observations were therefore impossible here before last night .
This is much to be regretted , and suggests that some local organisation is ; needed to further quick transmission of news to observing stations relating to phenomena which may change in a few days or even hours .
Last night was fortunately fine , and two photographs were taken of the spectrum:\#151 ; h. m. The 1 st exposed .
... . .
1 30 , from 7.30 to 9 The 2nd " ... ... . .
3 0 " 9.30 " 12.30 The first registered thirteen lines ; the second appears to contain some additional ones , but they are very faint and have not yet been Pleasured .
A complete discussion of these photographs will form the substance of a subsequent communication , but already the fpllowing approximations to the wave-lengths have been obtained , the photographs being treated absolutely independently , means , however , being taken for the four least refrangible lines , as there has not yet been time to construct a proper curve for this region .
I have recently taken up the question of stellar spectra , and find that a 6-inch object glass , with u prism in front of it , is all that is Squired for the brighter stars .
This instrument was employed upon the nova , which is of about the 5th magnitude , so the exposures were necessarily long .
VOL. l. 2 F 408 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On the New Star in Auriga .
[ Feb. 4 , Lines Measured in the First Photograph .
Wave-length .
Hydrogen lines .
Probable origin .
3933 ( K ) Ca 3968 h 4101 h 4128 4172 4226 . .
Ca 4268 4312 . .
Hydrocarbon 4340 a 4516 4552 4587 4618 Lines Measured in the Second Photograph .
Wave-length .
Hydrogen lines .
Probable origin .
3933 ( K ) 3968 H Ca 4101 h 4130 4172 4227 . .
Ca 4268 4310 Hydrocarbon 4340 4516 4552 4587 4618 *4 For the eye observations , the new 3-footmirror , which has recently been presented to the Astrophysical Laboratory by Mr. Common , was employed , but unfortunately the clock is not yet mounted , so that the observations were difficult .
C was the brightest line observed .
In the green there were several lines , the brightest of which was in all probability F , the position being estimated by comparison with the flame of a wax taper .
Another line was coincident , with the dispersion empl'ye\#174 ; \gt ; with the radiation at X 500 from burning magnesium wire .
A fainter line between the two last named was probably near X 495 , thus completing the trio of lines which is characteristic of the spectra of nebulae .
There was also a fairly bright line or band coincident with the edge of the carbon fluting near X517 given by the flame of the 1892 .
] Energy absorbed by Friction the Bores of Guns .
409 taper .
A feeble line in the yellow was coincident , under the conditions employed , with the sodium line at D. \gt ; The hydrogen line at Gr was distinctly seen , as well as a band or group of lines between Gr and F. Nearly all the lines appear to be approximately , if not actually , ' coincident with the lines seen in the various types of Cygnus stars , the chief difference being the apparent existence of carbon , hydrocarbon , and calcium in the nova .
The colour was estimated by Mr. Fowler as reddish-yellow , and by Mr. Baxandall as rather purplish .
My own impression was that the star was reddish , with a purple tinge .
This was in the 10-inch achromatic .
In the 3-foot reflector it Avas certainly less red than many stars of Gfroup II .
No nebulosity was observed either in the 3-foot or the 10-inch refractor , nor does any appear in a photograph of the region taken by a 34-inch Dallmeyer lens with three hours ' exposure .
It should be stated that the camera was carried by the photographic telescope , the clock of which had had its normal rate purposely changed to give breadth to the spectrum .
The photographs were taken and reduced by Messrs. Fowler and Baxandall .
The eye observations and comparisons were made by Mr. Fowler alone .
IT .
" Note on the Energy Absorbed by Friction in the Bores of Rifled Guns .
" By Captain Noble , C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. ( late Royal Artillery ) .
Received December 31 , 1891 .
t The object of the experiments which I proceed to describe was to \gt ; ascertain approximately , and under varied conditions , the loss of energy due to the friction of the driving ring of the projectile in the bores of rifled guns .
The rotation of modern breech-loading projectiles is generally given by means of a copper ring or band on the projectile , on a plan originally proposed by Mr. Vavasseur , the diameter of this ring being not only somewhat larger than that of the bore , but even larger than the diameter of th$ circle representing the bottom of the grooves , and the projections which give the rotation are formed by the pressure of the powder gases forcing the driving ring into the grooves of the gun .
At the commencement of motion the driving ring is consequently exactly moulded to the section of the bore at the seat of the -shot , and under the conditions due to the pressure to which the gun is at the moment subjected .
It will readily be conceived that a band or ring , moulded as described , may give rise to considerable friction in its passage through the bore , and the amount of this friction may be modified to a * considerable extent by various circumstances .
2f2

