Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
1878 .
] thin layer of the jelly-like mesoderm .
The ectodermic covering consists , except over the free end where the cells are simple and flattened , of long columnar , ciliated cells , the fixed ends branching into delicate fibres , which form a stratum underneath the epithelium .
A similar condition of the ectoderm is described as met with in two depressions of the surface , one being situate above , and the other below , the litho-cyst ; and the resemblance which the elongated epithelium cells with the subjacent granular-looking , but in reality fibrous stratum , exhibits to the developing central nervous structures in the vertebrate embryo is pointed out .
These parts , in fact , probably represent the first beginnings\#151 ; phylogenetically\#151 ; of a central " nervous system .
Some of the cells of the ectodermic covering of the lithocyst are pigmented , and these cells are provided each with an excessively long and fine ( sensorial ) filament instead of with vibratile cilia .
The endodermic core of the lithocyst consists of a prolongation from the nutritive canal of the margin , which at the terminal part of the lithocyst is continued as a solid projection , the cells of which contain calcareous crystals or otoliths .
A small lithocyst is further described , in which the otolithic prolongation of the nutritive canal penetrated the ectodermic covering , and projected freely into the surrounding medium .
Reference is made io the observations of Haeckel upon the nervous system of Greryonia and Cunina , and to a recently published preliminary notice by Oscar and Richard Hertwig , of the structure of the nerve-tracts and sense-organs in various other genera of Medusae .
January 17 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On Cobra Poison .
" By Alexander Peddler , F.C.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Dr. Frankland , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Royal School of Mines .
Received November 1 , 1877 .
On my arrival in India my attention was strongly directed to the enormous number of deaths , annually resulting from the bites of poisonous snakes .
Statistics of the deaths from such causes are-VOL .
XXVII .
C Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
[ Jan. 17 , collected by the various Provincial Governments of India , bnt as might be expected the difficulty of obtaining correct returns is very great , and it is certain that the number registered is far short of the real mortality resulting from this cause .
Even with such incorrect returns , however , as many as 11,416 deaths in India from the bites of poisonous snakes were reported during a single year , * and it is probably within the mark to say that in the whole of India the annual number of deaths from snake bite is not less than 15,000 .
Experiments without number have been made with a view to discover an antidote for snake virus ; but although many so-called remedies have been reported , ifrhas been found on closer examination , that none of them have been of the slightest efficacy either in modifying the action of the poison , or in any way tending to save life .
The nearest approach to success among these unsuccessful remedies appears to have been the system of artificial respiration , suggested by Sir J. Fayrer , and extensively experimented with by the Snake Poison Commission at Calcutta , whose report was published in 1874 , f and who found that , although life might be prolonged by the use of artificial respiration after poisoning by snake virus , in no case was there any ultimate hope of saving life by this means .
So far as I am acquainted with their results , the researches of other chemists have been hitherto unsuccessful either in elucidating the nature of the poison , or in ascribing any composition to the active principle which must be present .
This want of success is the only justification of my bringing the result of my own researches before the Royal Society at all ; while the great practical importance of a satisfactory solution of the problem will , I hope , be accepted as my apology for laying my work before them in its present incomplete form .
Of all the snakes in India the cobra ( Naja tripudians ) is the cause of the largest number of deaths , and the experiments here described were all made with cobra poison , extracted from the snakes in my own presence , by the usual method as described in published memoirs on the subject of snake poisoning .
As may be imagined , the supply of cobra poison which is obtainable is very small , each snake yielding only from one to three grains of solid poison ; so that , in all my experiments , I have been continually hampered with the extreme difficulty of procuring a sufficient amount of the poison to work with on a satisfactory scale .
In submitting my results to the Society , I must at the outset state that it is possible that after further experiments 1 may have to modify some of the results here given .
The liquid poison , which , when extracted from the cobra , has a slightly alkaline reaction , was found to have a specific gravity of 1'095 * 1869 .
See Fayrer , Proc. Roy .
Soc. , xxi , p. 360 .
+ Report on Indian and Australian Snake Poisoning .
Bengal Secretariat Press , Calcutta .
Prof. Pedler on Cobra Poison .
at 23 ' C. , the experiment being made on the average poison collected from 16 snakes on November 26th , 1874 .
Whether evaporated in dry air , or in vacuo , or at 100 ' C. , the fresh poison gave nearly the same amount of solid residue , the mean quantity being 28'28 per cent. , the poison extracted from one batch of snakes in the rainy season ( July ) giving 27'74 per cent. , and the poison from 16 snakes on November 24th , after the cessation of the rains , giving 28-82 per cent. As these samples were taken the first during the hot and moist rainy season , when these snakes are most active , and yield the largest quantity of poison , and the second during the cold season , when they are very sluggish , and yield only small quantities of virus , it may be hypothesised that throughout the year there is very little change in the actual amount of solid present in the liquid poison shed by the cobra .
I have tested the fresh liquid poison with polarized light , but found that it was optically inactive .
With reference to the action of time on cobra virus , my own conclusions do not altogether agree with results previously obtained ; thus , in the report of the Snake Commission above referred to , it is stated that the poison undergoes no change by being kept ; but , from my expe-perience , I have found , that although the poison will not alter if kept for two or three months only , yet if it be kept for a year or eighteen months , it alters in its properties very materially , becoming insoluble , and indeed losing to a considerable extent its poisonous action .
In fact , I gradually collected a considerable quantity of the poison , with a view to experiment on a larger scale ; but , on commencing work , I found the poison almost inert , and perfectly valueless for any scientific investigation on the subject , and in this way lost much time , and a very considerable amount of material extremely difficult to procure or replace .
The poison dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid was analysed , and the mean result was found to be:\#151 ; Carbon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
49'32 per cent. Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7'01 , , Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
17'39 " Ash ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6-68 Oxygen and sulphur by difference 19'60 , , If we regard the ash as being foreign to the organic poison , the proportion of the other elements will then become*\#151 ; * A part of these results was submitted by me to the Snake Poison Commission , and published by them at page 42 of their report .
20 Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
[ Jan. 17 , Carbon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 52-87 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
7'51 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
18'29 Oxygen and sulphur ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
21,33 100-00 The composition of crude cobra poison then approaches rather closely to the known composition of the various kinds of albumin , but the amount of nitrogen in the virus is rather in excess of that contained in egg albumin .
On testing the cobra poison qualitatively , I found that it contained a considerable proportion of a substance which gave all the tests of ordinary animal albumin , * and the amount of this substance was estimated by precipitation with strong alcohol , O'5403 gram of fresh cobra virus treated in this way gave '0935 gram dry albumin , and '0584 gram of a substance , which was gummy and amorphous in appearance .
The albumin on testing was found to be slightly poisonous , and from its physiological action I concluded that it could not contain more than from one-fiftieth to one-hundredth part its weight of the poisonous principle .
The portion soluble in alcohol was excessively poisonous .
It appears , then , that in the poison obtained from the cobra there is about 17*3 per cent , of albuminous matter , and 109 per cent , of poisonous matter only , or that about 60 per cent , of the solid cobra poison is of an albuminous nature , and only 40 per cent , at the most is pare poison .
I have endeavoured , by the use of solvents , both chemical and mechanical , to separate out some crystallizable principle from the poison ; but although I have used a great variety of liquids , I have not yet succeeded in obtaining anything but indications of crystallizable matter , and I have now given up all hope of separating any distinct principle from the poison by this method .
Dialysis through parchment paper was tried , in the hope of separating some principle , and about half a gram of the solid poison , dissolved in water , was allowed to dialyse for five days ; at the end of that time the liquid from the interior of the dialyser , when evaporated , gave an amorphous gummy mass , which had all the physiological properties of cobra poison ; the liquid , outside the dialyser , when evaporated , gave a residue the greatest part of which was like gum , but a few apparent crystals could be detected .
This was tested physiologically , and was , if anything , rather more poisonous than the ordinary virus , and I was , * Dr. Armstrong ( Proc. Poy .
Soc. , xxi , 363 ) had already noticed that the liquid poison when kept contains albuminous matter , hut the poison that he examined had already begun to undergo decomposition .
The chemical composition of the poison , as determined by Dr. Armstrong , shows a much smaller proportion of carbon and nitrogen than that found by me in the fresh poison .
As I have mentioned , the poison \lt ; oes not keep well either as a liquid or a solid , hence the disagreement of the results .
Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
1878 .
] therefore , unable to obtain any satisfactory result by the aid of dialysis .
I have satisfied myself by numerous experiments that the reported remedy for snake bite , ammonia , has no action chemically upon the poison , but that , if anything , the addition of this substance to the poison before hypodermic injection rather increases the rapidity of the action of the poison , and in no instance does it induce any modification of the poisonous action .
Whilst experimenting with the poison , it struck me that it was possible that , as in the case of " many organic poisons , the nitrogen might be in the triad condition , and that it might be possible to modify the poison by the action of ethylic iodide or other substances , as has been done in the case of some alkaloids .
Ethylic iodide was digested with the poison , and the residue , which had increased in weight , when physiologically tested , was found to be very much less active than usual , although still poisonous ; the sample taking about five times as long to kill as fresh cobra poison .
Another sample of poison was treated with hydrochloric acid , and evaporated spontaneously , and the residue was very much less active than ordinary poison , and I have found that even the addition of a small quantity of this acid to a solution of the poison before injection materially retards the poisonous action ; for a quantity ( 3 milligrams ) of poison , which under ordinary circumstances would kill a chicken in about half-an-hour or forty minutes , after the addition of 02 c.c. of hydrochloric acid took 1 hour 6 minutes to produce the same effect .
The poison treated with hydrochloric acid , when evaporated very slowly in vacuo , shows distinct traces of crystals ; but there still remains a large quantity of amorphous soluble matter , from which , when working on a small scale , as from the nature of the subject I was obliged to do , the crystals cannot be separated .
As hydrochloric acid has some apparent chemical action on cobra poison , I tried the effect of a number of chemical compounds on this substance , and by a natural sequence of ideas , having found that hydrochloric acid had a tendency to act in the required direction , amongst them I employed platinum tetrachloride , and found that this yielded excellent results , and gave indications of what might be called a chemical antidote .
The following is a typical experiment .
A quantity of fresh cobra poison was precipitated with alcohol , and the precipitate of albuminous matter well washed , then dissolved and tested , and found to have very slight poisonous action only , the alcoholic filtrate was then acidified with hydrochloric acid , and a solution of platinum tetrachloride added , when a small quantity of a yellow amorphous precipitate was formed ; the solution on evaporation in vacuo yielded a semi-crystalline residue , from which the excess of the platinum salt was removed by washing with dilute alcohol ; OT gram of the solid platinum compound , which 22 Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
[ Jan. 17 , appeared to be very insoluble in water , was administered internally to a chicken , and had no poisonous action ; and the solution containing the excess of platinum salt when injected into a chicken had no action whatever .
Here , then , was a case in which , apparently , the poisonous action of the virus had been destroyed or neutralized , for the albuminous precipitate certainly did not contain more than from one-fiftieth to one-hundredth part of its weight of poisonous material .
I have endeavoured to obtain a sufficient quantity of the poison to give me enough of the platinum compound for the determination of its composition , but up to the present time I have only succeeded in making one complete analysis ; the numbers which I have obtained are as follows:\#151 ; - *2583 gram of platinum compound yielded " 3065 gram C02 , .0996 gram H20 and -0418 gram platinum .
Prom this it follows that C = 33 42 per cent. , H = 4*28 per cent. , Pt. = 16'18 per cent. Also .0946 gram platinum compound yielded '1462 gram ammonia platinum chloride , therefore , H = 9'69 per cent. Unfortunately , I have been unable to determine the amount of chlorine , but if the compound has the ordinary composition of Cle for Pt. , the amount of chlorine present would be 17*42 per cent. , and we should thus get:\#151 ; By Experiment .
Calculated for formula PtCl4 j ( C17H25N407HC1)2 Platinum 1618 per cent. Chlorine by calculation. .
17-42 " Carbon 33-42 Hydrogen 4-28 " Nitrogen 9*69 " *Oxygen by difference ... .
19 -01 " 16 " 36 per cent. 17 65 33 -81 " 4 31 " 9 -29 " 18 -58 Judging from such insufficient data , it would be impossible to assign with certainty any formula to this compound .
It will be seen that I have appended the percentage composition calculated for PtCl4 ( C17H25H407HC1)2 ; but , of course , I do not imagine that I have ascertained the true formula of the poisonous principle ; I merely throw r\lt ; a suS'8'est")n that its composition may be something near Id7-U26.N4C)7 , or the double of this .
Prom the experiment described above , it will be seen that the addi-tmn of the solution of platinum tetrachloride caused a marked change m. , e , ?
ysl'l'gical action of the poison ; and it should be borne in mind , that my main object in these experiments was the discovery of * Only the faintest traces of sulphur are present in the compound .
1878.1 Prof. Pedler on Cobra Poison .
23 an antidote ( if possible ) rather than the solution of the purely chemical qUThe'experiments which I have made to investigate the physiological portion of the subject , naturally divide themselves into three distinct series : the first , in testing the action of graduated doses of the pure fresh poison hypodermically injected into animals ; the second , in the injection of cobra virus mixed with dilute aqueous solution of platinum tetrachloride ; and the third , in the action of the platinum salt on animals previously poisoned by fatal .doses of the virus .
In my preliminary experiments , I assured myself that fresh cobra poison mixed directly with a small quantity of solution of platinum tetrachloride almost entirely loses its poisonous properties .
In order to investigate this thoroughly , I selected chickens as good subjects to work on , and first ascertained the action of pure fresh cobra poison in various quantities , hypodermically injected , on these animals .
The summary of the results which I obtained are shown in Table A , whilst the details of the experiment are described in an Appendix* which contains the description of most of the more important physiological experiments made during this investigation .
Table A.\#151 ; Action of Cobra Poisonh , on Chickens .
No. Amount of Dried Poison used .
Duration of Experiment .
Result .
ft milli Hours .
Minutes .
17 Death -L Q ft . .
31 99 q 1 rtiilli nrrfl .
TYl . .
38 99 O A l 1 12 99 2 99 * JL ] 34 99 o 99 * 1 2 40 99 D h T5 " 1 52 99 ' 4 Q TS " \#187 ; * ' ' V The animal was almost Recovered O \#166 ; 50 '\gt ; i insensible for 12 hours .
From this table , it appears that a quantity of tie milligram of pure dry cobra poison is sufficient to kill with certainty a healthy chicken , while aY 'f a milligram , when injected , produced such an effect , that for twelve hours the life of the chicken was despaired of ; in larger doses the action of the poison is proportionately more rapid , until with a few milligrams death results within a few minutes .
A second series of experiments was then tried , by taking solutions of weighed quantities of the same sample of cobra poison as was used in the first series , mixing with known weights of platinum tetrachloride , and injecting .
The experiments are subdivided into two classes , according to slight variations in the method of working ; in some # This Appendix is deposited in the Archives of the Royal Society . .
Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
[ Jan. 17 , cases the mixture of the poison and platinum salt was allowed to stand for a short time previous to the injection ; and , in the remainder , the injection was performed a few seconds after the platinum solution had been added to the poison .
The results are shown in Table B , which is divided into two sections : the first , showing experiments with the injection performed a short time after the mixture was made ; and the second section showing injections made immediately after the two substances had been brought into contact with each other .
Table B.\#151 ; Action of Cobra Poison mixed with Platinum Tetrachloride on Chicken .
* I.\#151 ; Injection performed a short time after Mixing .
No. Weight of Dried Cobra Weight of Duration or Result .
No. of Chickens which the Poison Poison .
PtOl^ Symptoms .
if used alone was capable of killing .
1 3 milligrams '01 gram No symptoms Survives 45 chickens of cobra 2 3 4 6 " 6 " 8 " .02 " .02 " .025 " poisoning )f 99 99 99 99 i9 90 " 90 " 120 hours , min. 5 10 " .03 " 15 0 Death 150 " 6 15 " .05 " 50 6 99 225 " I II.\#151 ; Injection performed at the instcmt of Mixing .
7 9 milligrams '025 gram hours , mins .
4 0 Death 8 12 " .04 " 1 25 9 12 " .
.025 " 4 10 i9 99 135 chickens 180 " 180 " The first section of this table shows that almost any quantity , however large , of cobra poison mixed with the platinum salt , may be injecte mto chickens without producing any poisonous action ; in the ourth ^ experiment , for instance , enough poison to kill 120 chickens was injected mto one chicken , and although the animal became drowsy and was evidently much upset by the injection of a large volume of iquid , the symptoms which were developed were not those of cobra poison and the animal in the course of a day or two recovered its usual health and strength .
In the case of No. 5 , Table B , enough poison to kill 150 chickens was injected , and death resulted in fifteen iiours ; but the death apparently resulted from the effect of the shock ' , 6 Sy\#174 ; !
; \#174 ; ni 'f the chicken\gt ; caused by the injection of such a large vo ume o lquid as was necessary .
The same remark also applies to Prof. Pedler on Cobra Poison .
1878 .
] Experiment 6 , where enough , poison to kill 225 chickens was injected , and death resulted from the setting in of diarrhoea , and from the subsequent exhaustion , in 50 hours 6 minutes after the performance of the hypodermic injection .
In the experiments of injecting the mixture of the cobra poison and solution of platinum tetrachloride immediately after it was made , the results are not quite so satisfactory , but they still show that large quantities of poison ( enough to kill 180 chickens being used in Experiment No. 1 ) may be injected , and that the fatal result does not take place until after the expiration of a period very much longer , as a rule , than would be the case without the use of the platinum salt .
I have not thought it worth while to experiment with small quantities of poison in this manner , as the result of the first section conclusively shows that , if the platinum salt has time allowed to act upon the poison , the poisonous action of the virus is entirely destroyed .
Before finally accepting this conclusion , I thought it advisable to try a similar set of experiments on other animals , such as dogs ; and , as will be seen below , the experiments which have been performed have entirely borne out the conclusion above arrived at .
In the report of the Snake Poison Commission already referred to , a number of experiments have been made on the action upon dogs of graduated doses of cobra virus , and in the following table will be found a summary of the principal results:\#151 ; Table C.\#151 ; Action of Cobra Poison on Dogs .
I Wt .
of Poison injected .
Weight of Dog .
Time of Experiment .
, Result .
1 *I.S.P.C .
3 .
2i grains 33 lbs. hr3 .
mins .
1 43 Death I.S.P.C. 4 .
2 25 " 1 43 99 I.S.P.C. 5 .
1\#163 ; it 1 grain 39 " 1 21 99 I.S.P.C. 6 .
28 " 1 42 99 I.S.P.C. 7 .
1 24 " 0 57 99 I.S.P.C. 8 .
i \#187 ; 35 " 1 32 99 I.S.P.C. 9 .
i \#187 ; 24 " 2 24 99 I.S.P.C. 10 .
i \#187 ; 19 " 1 58 99 I.S.P.C. 11 .
4 99 20 " 4 20 99 I.S.P.C. 12 .
i \#187 ; 41 " 8 0 99 I.S.P.C. 16 .
" g* 99 40 " 5 6 99 I.S.P.C. 17 .
i 99 14 " 4 28 99 I.S.P.C. 14 .
TO 99 18 " 11 30 99 Prom this table it appears that from a quarter of a grain ( '0162 gram ) to a sixth of a grain may be looked on as a fatal dose to an ordinary sized dog , while any quantities larger than this will produce a very rapidly fatal effect .
In order to test the action of the poison mixed with platinum salt , # These refer to the number of each experiment in the report above quoted .
26 Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
[ Jan. 17 , as before , I used weighed quantities of the dried fresh poison dissolved in water , and added known quantities of a standard solution of platinum tetrachloride ; the results of these injections into dogs are shown in the table below , and in no instance did they show the slightest indication of any physiological action whatever .
These animals were still alive when this paper was written .
Table D.\#151 ; Injection of Mixture of Cobra Poison and PtCU into Dogs .
No. of Expt. Weight of Dog .
Weight of Cobra Poison used .
Weight of PtCl4 used .
Duration of Expt. Result .
1 38 lbs. i grain = *0324 gram *065 gram Not affected 2 25 " 1 grain = *0648 gram *13 gram 99 3 35 " 3 grains = *1944 gram *30 gram . .
99 If we accept the conclusion that \#163 ; grain of cobra poison hypodermically injected will kill a dog under ordinary circumstances , in the three experiments under notice the quantities of cobra poison used were sufficient to kill three , six , and eighteen dogs respectively ; and yet in no case did the dog show the slightest indication of cobra poisoning .
I have not tried larger quantities than three grains of poison , as the volume of liquid which has then to be injected becomes inconveniently large ; even in Experiment No. 3 in .
Table D no less than four or five separate hypodermic injections had to be made , to the great inconvenience of the dog experimented upon .
From these results I think it may safely be said , that the compound which cobra poison produces when brought into contact with an aqueous and dilute ( 5 per cent. ) solution of platinum tetrachloride is quite inert and physiologically inactive , though of course it does not follow that this substance can be used as an antidote in cases of snake poisoning .
If I may be allowed the expression , platinum tetrachloride appears to be a chemical antidote to cobra virus , but whether it will be found to be a physiological antidote can only be settled by extensive researches .
Next , then , with a view to ascertain tentatively whether platinum tetrachloride can be used as an antidote , in the ordinary sense of the word , to snake poisoning , I have tried two sets of experiments described below .
The results which I have obtained from this third series of experiments , although interesting and to a certain extent hopeful m their nature , have not , I am sorry to say , in any case shown that ' life can be saved by this means .
As a preliminary step in the elucidation of this very important question , I have made some experiments on fowls and dogs by first hypodermically injecting known quantities of poison more than sufficient to kill , and after a definite interval injecting known quantities of the standard solution of platinum tetrachloride , at or near the same spot where the first injection was perProf .
Pedler on Cobra Poison .
1878 .
] formed .
By the experiments of other investigators on the subject of snake poisoning , it has been found that the rapidity of the absorption of cobra poison is quite marvellous , and from the beginning I clearly saw that this would be the cause from which in all probability all experiments for the discovery of a true antidote would fail .
So far as I could ascertain the non-success of the experiments about to be described appeared to be due to this cause ; I first experimented upon chickens in the manner described above , and found that in two cases out of three life was prolonged to a very considerable extent , but I did not succeed in preventing death .
The results are given in Table E. Table E.\#151 ; Experiments on Chickens .
Injection of Platinum Salt after Poisoning by Cobra Virus .
No. of Experiment .
Amount of Cobra Poison .
Interval before Injection of PtCl4 .
Amount of PtCl4 .
Duration of Experiment .
Result .
1 i milligram 5 minutes .025 gram hrs .
min. 2 2 Death 2 8 T7 \#187 ; 1 minute 05 " 1 5 99 3 i \#187 ; 1 .015 " 11 47 99 In Experiment No. 1 the amount of poison injected ( enough to kill seven fowls ) would , under ordinary circumstances , kill in about an hour or an hour and a quarter , but the animal here lived more than two hours .
In Experiment No. 2 the poison would , under ordinary circumstances , kill in about an hour and a half , but in the experiment in question it killed in one hour and five minutes .
This showed me a defect in my mode of working , in fact by injecting the platinum solution into the same orifice as the poison , and*to about the same depth beneath the skin , I had merely driven the poison along before the second solution , and thus diffused it more rapidly through the system , naturally causing death to result in a shorter time than would have otherwise been the case .
I should here mention that the same remark applies to some of the experiments I made on dogs described in the next table .
In Experiment No. 3 in Table E , the amount of poison injected into the chicken was enough to kill three or four chickens , and would under ordinary circumstances have killed in from an hour and a half to one *hour and forty minutes .
In this case to avoid the defect in Experiment No. 2 , the platinum solution was injected rather deeper than the poison , and the result was that the animal lived for eleven hours forty-seven minutes , or more than seven times as long as would have been the case had no platinum salt been injected .
This was of course encouraging , and seemed to promise that the platinum salt would in certain circumstances be useful .
The experiments made on dogs are 28 Prof. Peddler on Cobra Poison .
[ Jan. 17 , summarized in Table F , and the method used was the same as before described .
Table F.\#151 ; Injection of Platinum Tetrachloride into Poisoned Dogs .
No. of Eexpt .
Wt.of Dog in lbs. Amount of Cobra Poison used .
Interval before use of PtCl4 .
Amount of PtCl4 injected .
Dura- tion .
Result .
1 31 J grain = *0324 gram !
1 to 2 min '05 gram hr .
min. 2 45 Death 2 15 i grain = *0162 gram 1 minute .05 " 1 48 3 40 ^ grain 1 minute 10 " 5 20 " 4 42 \#163 ; grain 3 minutes .15 " 4 20 internally The platinum salt does not in these instances appear to have been as 1 efficacious as in the experiments on chickens , and as previously men- I tioned I believe that the want of success was owing to the rapidity 1 with which the poison is absorbed and diffused through the system , 1 preventing any chance of the platinum salt coming in contact with the j virus .
This must prove a serious obstacle to the efficacy of any I remedy .
I confess that from my own experience of the rapidity of 1 the absorption of this poison , I have considerable doubt as to the 1 possibility of an antidote to snake poison ever being discovered , for in I a few seconds after the actual bite of a snake the poison is absorbed j by the blood , and carried by it to all parts of the system , and thus the j task of overcoming or neutralizing the virus is rendered extremely ] difficult if not practically impossible .
In making the experiments described in the last two tables , I have \ been seriously hampered with the want of knowledge as to the physiological action of platinum salts in general , and of the platinum tetrachloride in particular ; and although I have searched through every available authority , I have been unable to find any results bearing however slightly on this subject .
To work out the problem before us , we must begin with selecting suitable living subjects for experiment !
We must then ascertain what is the physiological action upon these animals of the platinum salt and of the cobra poison separately , both when administered internally and when injected hypodermically , i Having settled these preliminary questions , we must proceed to test the applicability of the platinum salt as an antidote to the cobra virus by injecting hypodermically into similar subjects the smallest dose , which our preliminary experiments have shown to be fatal , and subsequently administering the platinum salt in various ways .
As my own physiological knowledge and surgical skill are very slight^ I have asked Dr. E. Lawrie to join in the investigation above sec ed out , and we have already commenced our experiments , the 11878 .
] Mr. W. Crookes on Repulsion .
\#166 ; results of which , we hope to submit to the Society in a subsequent I communication .
I do not , of course , lay any claim to have discovered an antidote ( in 1 the true sense of the word ) to cobra poison , but I think that the experi-| ments above described prove the inertness of the platinum compound I of cobra virus , and that this may be deemed a sufficient ground for I making more extensive researches on this subject .
Nor do I at present I venture to make any practical suggestions in connexion with the above | facts as to the treatment of cases of snake bite , for until we are i acquainted with the physiological action of platinum compounds this , would be premature .
The responsibility of recommending any change B in the recognized methods of treatment would be very great , and it , would be worse than rashness to deal with a subject of such vital i importance without having a thorough knowledge of the effects likely \#187 ; to be produced by our actions .
Before concluding my paper I must tender my thanks to Mr. R. H. | Wilson , O.S. , officiating magistrate of the 24 Pergunnas , for kindly | assisting me in procuring live cobras for the extraction of the poison , and to my assistant , Balm Poolin Bohary Saor , for much aid rendered I during the progress of a work not always pleasant to the feelings , and j always more or less dangerous in its nature .
II .
" On Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
Part V. " By William Crookes , F.R.S. , Y.P.C.S. Received December 3 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) This paper commences with an experimental investigation of the ; amount of repulsion produced by radiation on disks of various kinds , I and coated with different substances .
The torsion apparatus for this [ purpose consists of a straw beam , suspended by a fine glass torsion f fibre .
At one end of the beam is a rod hanging downwards , and I capable of taking six experimental disks in a vertical row .
The other I end of the beam is furnished with a pan and adjustible weights , to balance the varying weights of the disks submitted to radiation .
A I standard candle , at a fixed distance from the disks , supplies the radia-I tion , and the amount of movement under its influence is measured by a I ray of light reflected from a mirror on the beam to a graduated scale .
I An appropriate arrangement of screens enables any selected disk to be I experimented on without the others being affected , and a standard I lampblacked disk being always present , the results are capable of intercomparison .
The beam , torsion fibre , disks \amp ; c. , are sealed up in glass , and the whole apparatus is attached to a mercury pump , capable I of carrying the exhaustion to any desired point .

