]\gt ; Note on the jectories of Rijled ectiles Various of Head .
BY A. MALLOCK , F.R.S. Received February Read March In two previous papers*I an approximate formula for the determination of the range and elevaCion of a pointed rifle projectile , of which the head was an with a dius of two diameters .
This approximation agreed so closely with the results obtained in practice that it seemed worth while to ascertain whether the same type of fornlula would not equally well to other shapes of head .
For this purpose I have made the experiments which will be presently described .
In order to explain clearly what the exact points to be decided were , I will briefly restate of the given in the former papers .
The results of all the experiments made on air resistance at high velocities in a curve of retardation in terms of velocity of the form shown in I. The assumption made in the approximate DIAGRAM I. formula for the range is , that , for practical purposes , the curve ABC may be replaced by the straight line DE , as far as retardation between the velocities of 1000 and 3000 .
is concerned .
This leads , as was shown , to the following expressions for the velocity , and the distance travelled in a time , , ( 1 ) .
The quantity is the coefficient of in the equation to the line , viz It was further found , from the analysis of a large quantity of range practice .
that the downward acceleration of the shot during its was less than the acceleration due to gravity , that is to say , the air resistance 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , pp. 274 and Mr. A. Mallock .
On the Trajectories of [ Feb. 24 , produced an upward force , as well as a retardation in the direction of motion , and that the effective downward acceleration could be expressed as a function of the reduction of velocity .
Thus instead of taking the fall in time as , the results showed that we should write for .
The numerical value of for the class of projectiles considered was about This change in the downward acceleration implies that the axis of the projectile is slightly inclined to the trajectory , and that the angle between the two increases as the velocity decreases , that is , as the curvature of the trajectory increases ; and this is what might naturally be expected to happen .
Using the above value for , the angle of elevation , with which the projectile must start , if it is to remain in the air for the time , is given by .
For brevity , I will write for , and for , which gives .
( 3 ) It will be noticed that in this expression for there are three constants , , and .
Of these , and are purely experimental .
The constant , however , can be decomposed into factors , one of which is experimental , while the other depends on the size , weight , and density of the projectile .
The object of the present series of experiments was in the first place to find out whether values could be assigned to , and , which would make the formulae ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , and ( 3 ) agree with observation for different shapes of head , and , secondly , in what manner these constants changed with the shape .
shapes employed for the head of the experimental projectiles were : ( 1 ) Flat heads .
( 2 ) Hemispherical heads .
( 3 ) Ogival heads , radius of ogive 2 diameters .
( 4 ) , , , , , 4 ( 5 ) , , , , 6 ( 6 ) , , , , , , 12 All these projectiles were made of brass , inch diameter and weighing 154 grains ( 10 grammes nearly ) .
They were fired with a velocity of 2480 .
and their trajectories were determined practice up to a range of 1000 yards .
It was found , in every case , except with the flat heads , that values could be found for , and , which would make the formula represent the facts within the limits of errors of observation and , further , that and were apparently independent of the shape of the head .
1908 .
] Rifled ectiles n)Varions of Head .
The chief interest therefore attaches to the dependence of on the shape of the head .
The quantity represented by first occurs as the coefficient of 21 in the equation of the straight line , which is taken to represent the retardation due to air resistance ; and since , then , a velocity is equal to a retardation , the dimensions of are Again , appears as the coefficient of in the expression the remaining velocity , viz. , .
Hence is the reciprocal of the time in which the velocity is reduced by the air resistance in the ratio of to 1 .
And , the retardation of the projectile is equal to mean air pressure ( P ) per unit area of cross-section of the projectile that a:the mass : or , so that The formulae ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) assume that is a constant on the shape of the head of the projectile only .
To determine this constant it is only necessary to determine the for each shape of head from the data furnished by practice at various ranges .
This may be done as follows:\mdash ; Let be the angle of elevation found by experiment as iving a of feet to a projectile having an head of diameters radius .
We have and ' ( 4 ) whence , eliminating , we have .
( 5 ) By plotting the function on the right hand in terms of , the value of which fulfils the conditions of ( 5 ) can be found , and substitu t this value in ( 4 ) we find .
A comparison can then be made between the trajectory foumd by experiment and that iven by the formulae ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) .
I will not add to the length of this paper by giving the somewhat tedious computations required , but the results are shown in DiagratIls ( II ) , ( III ) .
Diagram I[gives the observed angles of elevation lequired at 1000 yards for the various bullets tried , plotted in terms of the radius of the ogive expressed in diameters of the projectile .
Diagram III shows the value which must be assigned to if a shot fired with velocity 2000 , 2200 , etc. , .
requires an of elevation for 1000 yards .
VOL. LXXX.\mdash ; A. 2 Mr. A. Mallock .
On the Trajectories of [ Feb. 24 , By putting we find the minimum angle of elevation which aprojectile at the given range can have , and the values so found approach the angles actually used with large projectiles at ranges short enough to make the reduction of velocity by air resistance inconsiderable .
DIAGRAM II.\mdash ; Angle of elevation found by experiment for ogival-headed projectiles in terms of the radius of the head .
Weight of projectile , 154 grains .
Muzzle velocity , 2480 In Diagram the full curves represent the angles of elevation for various , computed from the calculated value of , and the spots refer to observed values .
It will be seen that the agreement between the calculated and observed results is fairly close .
Diagram gives the calculated values of for the different shapes ol head employed .
In order to test the formula at a different muzzle velocity , a series fired with a bullet made commercially , which has nearly the same weight , and density as the 12-diameter ogive experimental bullet , but having a muzzle velocity of 2880 feet per second .
The result is shown in Diagram VI Curve A. Here the experimental result is in very close agreement with the calculation .
The Curve in the same diagram refers to a bullet of the same 8 .
Rifled Projectiles with Various of density , muzzle velocity , and the same external shape , except that the point is removed , leaving a flattish area about inch diameter .
In this case and in that of the Curve , which refer to a bullet weighing grains , having DIAGRAM III.\mdash ; Showing the values of ' ' \ldquo ; for an ogival-headed projectile in terms of the angle of elevation " " \ldquo ; required for a range of 1000 yards , and with muzzle velocities of from 2000 to 3000 the same shape of head as , and the same flattened point , but with greater density ( muzzle velocity 2225 ) the difference between the calculated and experimental curves is considerable .
But with values of used in Curves and the agreement with the formula again becomes very close .
Mr. A. Mallock .
On the Trajectories of [ Feb. 24 , The constant difference between in sighting.)* DIAGRAM IV.\mdash ; Calculated and observed angles of elevation for ogival-headed projectile .
of , 2 , 4 , 6 , and 12 calibres radius .
Weight of projectile , 154 grains .
Muzzle velocity , 2480 Full curves are the calculated angles .
are results of experiments .
1z Radius of in DIAGRAM in terms of radius of ogive .
average air resistance ( in lb. per square foot ) on the cross-section of the projectile .
velocity of projectile , 860 There is always a difficulty in ascertaining the trne zero of the sighting of a rifle .
It is well known that the first shot from a cold barrel gives a zero different from that indicated by the subsequent rounds , and that in firing a long series , the sighting for a 1908 .
] Rifled Projectiles with Various Shapes of Head .
Whether the difference in the value of requisite for these bullets is entirely due to the blunt points , must be decided by further experiment .
Sharp-pointed bullets are in use in several Continental at the present time , and I may notice that the trajectories computed by the formula , using the values of obtained from , agree very well with tables .
which have been arrived at by experiment in each case .
4 6 8 1o edIZ y DIAGRAM .\mdash ; Comparison of calculated and observed angles of elevation for ogivalheaded projectile of 150 , 154 , and 225 grains .
Radius of ogive 12 calibres .
Curve A refers to angles for sharp-pointed 150-grain projectile .
Muzzle velocity 2360 ( ' ' \ldquo ; deduced from the 154-grain projectile with muzzle velocity 2460 ) .
Curve refers to angles for same shape and weight bnt with flattened point \ldquo ; in case has to be increased to to make the calculated and observed results agree ) .
Curve refers to angles for sharp-pointed 225-grain projectile with muzzle velocity of Curve refers to angles of the same shape but with flattened point as found by experiment .
Curve \mdash ; Calculated angles for projectile of ) The crosses are the results of experiment in each case .
It is a matter of some interest to see what advantage would be gained by giving these extreme pointed shapes to the projectiles of large guns .
For this purpose I have prepared Diagrams VIII , IX , which give the angles of eleyation and the ranges for a 6-inch and 12-inch gun , both having a muzzle given range has occasionally to be altered .
It is probable , I think , that the differential cooling of the barrel may have to do with this , and may render the zero uncertain to the extent of a minute or two .
Mr. A. Mallock .
On the jectories of [ Feb. 24 , velocity of 2850 .
The upper curves refer to projectiles with ogival of two calibres , and the lower to 12-calibre heads .
The gain with the 6-inch gun is considerable , but the ranges would have to be much over 10,000 yards to get a ionate advantage with the larger gun .
Before leaving the subject of pointed projectiles , it may be remarked that the vrajectories of projecti]es differing either in shape , size , or weight , cannot be exactly similar , i.e. , difler from one another merely in scale , if only one of these quantities differ , for if they could , the angles of elevation would Hundred yards .
DIAGRAM \mdash ; Curves relating to a flat-headed projectile .
Weight , 154 grains .
Muzzle velocity , 2480 f.s. calculated velocity .
velocity from ballistic pendulum experiments .
angle of elevation found by experiment .
calculated time of flight .
value of ( in f.s.s. ) required to fullil the condition be the same when one range was a certain definite multiple of the other .
In this case the equation must hold for all values of ( being the constant ratio of ) .
This leads to an equation which is obviously only satisfied for particular values of Rifled Projectiles Various Shapes of 3 4 5 6 2 Thousand g DIAGRAM VIII .
Angles of elevation for a 6-inch gun .
Weight of projectile , 100 lbs. Muzzle velocity , 2850 A. Ogival head , 2 calibres radius .
B. , , 12 , 5 6 IOThousand q DIAGRAM IX.\mdash ; Angles of elevation for a 12-inch gun .
Weight of projectile , Muzzle velocity , 2850 A. Ogival head , 2 calibres radius .
B. , , 12 The trajectories of two different projectiles will , however , be identical if is the same for each .
Within the limits for found in these experiments , *therefore , may be varied in the ratio of to 1 ( constant ) , * See Diagram Mr. A. Mallock .
On the Trajectories of [ Feb. 24 , and in the ratio of 2 to 1 ( constant ) , the trajectory remaining the same , if a proper form of head is chosen .
It was mentioned at the beginning of this paper that the approximate formula used for pointed forms did not apply to the flat-headed projectiles .
The reason for this is that the resistance they encounter is so large that their velocity falls to below 1000 .
( the lower limit of the formula ) at comparatively short ranges .
As regards accuracy , their shooting was bad at all distances , but excessively so at ranges exceeding 300 yards .
Out of thelarge number of rounds fired , only one hit on the target at700 yards was recognised .
The initial velocity of the experimental flat-head was 2480 .
as it was with the other forms , but at 500 yards the air resistance had reduced this to under 400 Although the simple range formula used for pointed forms will not on this account apply to the flat heads , their range in terms of time can readily be got from the resistance curve given in ' .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , p. 273 .
Let be the retardation experienced at velocity , and the negative velocity given to the shot by the retardation ; then remaining velocity , , and .
Also , where is the loss of range due to the negative velocity ; hence the total space , described in time , is .
Now is resistance per unit area at velocity ; and resistanoe per unit area is the ordinate in the resistance curve given in the paper above referred to .
In order therefore to find the range in terms of time for any flat-headed projectile , we have only to find graphically , or otherwise , the integrals and , and to plot the second in terms of the first .
The range is then the ordinate ; and the time of flight the abscissa .
For the purpose of comparing theory with the data obtained from firing , it is more convenient to plot in terms of range .
This has been done in Diagram , where curves are given showing the remaining velocity , the time of flight , and the angle of elevation used in the experiments .
The two crosses on the velocity curve are velocities obtained from ballistic pendulum experiments at 100 and 200 yards .
A curve ' ( E ) is also added which gives the value which must be taken for in order that may be equal to .
From the rapid drop in it is clear that as the range increases the axis of the shot must depart widely from the direction of motion ; in fact , since the mean downward acceleration for the whole time of flight at 500 yards is only about 17 f.s.s. at that range , at least half the weight of the projectile must be borne on the air .
With larger projectiles the inaccuracy of shooting and loss of velocity would not be so conspicuous ; for instance , a flat-head , weighing , with 1908 .
] Rifled Projectiles with Various Shapes of an initial velocity of .
would still have a velocity of 2200 .
at two seconds after its start and would have travelled 5150 feet , and it is not likely that any very great inaccuracy would declare itself up to ranges of 2000 or 3000 yards .
Beyond this , however , the shooting would probably become more and more erratic .
One very remarkable feature about the behaviour of flat-headed projectiles is their great lateral drift .
An ordinary pointed projectile has a small drift in the same direction as it would have if it rolled on the air under it .
The flat-headed projectile ifts in the opposite direction , i.e. , as if rolled on the air above it .
This difference has been noticed by Major-Gen eral Owen , 1862 and 1864 , but the fact seems to have been held as doubtful .
With the 10-gramme bullets , however , there could be no doubt about the matter , as the drift amounts to more than 80 inches at 500 I will not go further the experiments made with this class of projectile at present , although their behaviour is likely to be of help at some future time in forming a true conception of the nature of the action of the air in controlling the attitude of the shot with to the trajectory .
Returning now to pointed projectiles , it will be seen from Diagram II that little is to be gained by using a form of head whose radius is greater than 12 diameters , and , in addition , if a more pointed form is used with a solid shot , comparatively little parallel body is left to give guidance in the barrel .
The resistance might be further decreased if it were possible to use a pointed tail and so lessen the ative pressure on the base , but no mere rounding of the base would do much in this direction , although it might ] act to unstabilise the bullet .
What is wanted is a tail so pointed that its angle is at any rate less than the angle of the cone over which the air naturally flows in passing into the wake of a flat-based projectile , and which is conspicuous in many of the photographs of flying bullets .
These fish-formed bullets , how- ever , are naturally unstable and almost as soon as started they set their axes at a definite and considerable angle to the direction of flight .
It would be possible , I believe , to keep them in a true course if they were provided with proper fins , and if we succeed in this , angles of elevation of 25 ' to 30 ' may be looked for as possible for small arms , at of 1000 yards .
I have to give my best thanks to Colonel the Hon. T. .
Fremantle and Colonel H. Mellish for their co-operation and assistance in carrying out these experiments at their ranges at Wistow and at Hodsock Priory .
All the rounds were fired by them , and their well-known skill as rifle shots made any sensible error in aiming a negligible quantity .

