155 jgg\#163 ; i On Syringammiiia .
of dark lines in the coronal spectrum , that doubt is .
now completely ^ The6 results have amply proved the value of the photographic method employed , and it has been shown how an eclipse of only seventy seconds ' duration can be made to yield important information .
IV .
Note on Syringammina , a New Type of Arenaceous Rhizo-poda .
" By Henry B. Brady , F.R.S. Received April 10* 1883 .
[ PliATES 2 , 3.3 - The specimens to which the following note refers were dredged in the Faroe Channel in the autumn of last year , during the cruise of H.M.S. " Triton , " and were sent to me for examination by Mr. John Murray , F.R.S.E. , under whose direction the scientific observations of the expedition were carried out .
It is now a well-known fact that the region lying between the north coast of Scotland and the Faroe Islands possesses certain features of unusual interest owing to the existence , side by side , of two sharply defined areas , of which the bottom temperature differs to the extent of 16 ' or 17 ' Fahr. The depth of the two areas is very similar , ranging from 450 to 640 fathoms , and they are separated by a narrow ridge having an average depth of about 250 fathoms .
The physical aspects of this phenomenon have been the subject of much discussion , and the biological conditions attendant thereupon are of almost equal importance ; indeed , so far as the Rhizopoda are concerned , there are few areas of the same extent that have so well repaid the labour of investigation .
On the 44 Lightning " Expedition of 1868 , supei-intended by Dr. Carpenter and Sir Wyville Thomson , the cold area furnished amongst other interesting organisms , the large Lituoline Foraminifer Reophax sabulosa , a form which has since been obtained near the same point on the cruise of the 44 Knight Errant , but has never been met with elsewhere .
The warm area yielded at the same time Astrorhiza arenaria , a large sandy species previously unknown to British naturalists .
On the 44 Porcupine " * Expedition of 1869 , another modification of the latter genus , Astrorhiza crassatina^ was obtained in the cold area ; and near the boundary line an entirely new arenaceous type was dredged , to which the generic named Rotelliua has been assigned by Dr. Carpenter .
From the fact that all the specimens of the form appeared more or less broken , it has been inferred that the tests were adherent when living ; but the fragments were abundant/ and consisted of stout tubes , many of them upwards of an inch in length , the interior being subdivided by a labyrinth of irregular Mr. H. B. Brady .
[ Apr. 19 , sandy partitions .
More recently , in 1880 , on the cruise of the " Knighl Errant , " * the rare genus Storthosphcera was found in the warm region ' and in the cold area specimens of Cornusjpira which measured more than an inch in diameter , rivalling in size the finest of the tropical Orbitolites , and therefore amongst the largest known Porcellanoug Foraminif era .
The bottom-dredgings obtained on the cruise of the " Triton " in August and September , 1882 , have not been fully examined , but the surface-gatherings made by means of the tow-net are remarkable for tlm abundance of the curious pelagic type Hadigerina .
This genus had not previously been found living in the British seas , and the specimens procured were equal in size and beauty to any of those collected in southern latitudes during the " Challenger " voyage .
Of the Rhizopoda contained in the dredgings , by far the most noteworthy is the arenaceous form which I propose to describe in the present paper .
It may be stated at the outset that two specimens were secured , but owing to the excessively fragile nature of the organism , both were in a more or less fragmentary condition , though sufficient remains to indicate their principal structural features .
The general appearance of one of the specimens , drawn to the natural size , is shown in PI .
2 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ; the second was too much broken to be of service except for purposes ot dissection .
The figured specimen is about an inch and a half ( 38 millims. ) in diariieter , and about eight-tenths of an inch ( 20 millims. ) in thickness , but it is probable that the latter dimension may not be much more than half that of the entire organism ; indeed , it is evident that the test when complete was a rounded mass , which if developed with any degree of symmetry , must have been a sphere of about an inch and a half diameter .
The structure revealed by the fractured surfaces is that of a congeries of branching and inosculating tubes radiating from a common centre .
The fragile nature of the investment is due to the fact that the walls are composed of fine sand with scarcely a trace of inorganic cement .
In this respect the organism bears a close resemblance to several well-known arenaceous Rhizopods , notably to Astrorhiza arenaria , but the difference in size renders the absence of incorporating cement a much more noticeable feature ; for whilst the test of the latter species , though loosely arenaceous , has sufficient strength and substance to bear handling without injury , that of the present form will scarcely support its own weight when taken out of water , and crumbles into a mass of sand on the gentlest attempts at manipulation .
It is hardly possible to lift even small fiagments by means of forceps , and the specimen would have been in less satisfactory * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
, " 1882 , vol. xi , pp. 708-717 , 1883 .
] On Syringainmina .
K dition than they are , were it not that the disintegrated por-Hns formed a layer of sand in the bottom of the bottle , partially embedding the larger pieces .
Owing to this want of cohesion it has been found impossible to prepare thin sections of any part of ^ The inferior aspect of the specimen , represented in Pl .
2 , fig. 1 , is entirely a fractured surface , and is probably something approaching a median section ; but it is much too uneven to show any regularity of structure , except at some points near the periphery .
The only portion remaining of what was originally the exterior of the test is shown in the side view , fig. 3 , at the point marked a. The convex or " superior " aspect of the specimen , as it stands on the plate , exhibits chiefly the open ends of the transversly-broken tubes .
The different portions of the structure examined in detail reveal little beyond what may be realised at the first glance .
The " inferior " surface of the specimen displays somewhat more regularity in the radial arrangement of the tubes than could be made apparent in the drawing , owing to the unevenness of the fracture .
The organic centre appears to have been broken away , and it is impossible to say whether there has been originally any true nucleus , in the shape of a well-defined primordial chamber .
The central portions , so far as they are left , consist of a network of branching and often contorted tubes , of somewhat smaller diameter than those of the exterior , and less regularly disposed ( PI .
3 , fig. 8 ) .
Nearer the periphery the system of tubes takes a distinctly radial character , and in a favourable section appears divided into concentric layers or tiers of gradually increasing depth ( fig. 6 ) .
The concentric " partitions " exhibited in the radial section of the test , fig. 6 , d.d. , are not , like the " labyrinthic layers " of Parheria , continuous septa of cancellated structure , but are formed by lateral branches , given off at intervals , which unite so as to produce a more or less regular network ( fig. 7 ) .
As nearly as can be made out , there may have been ten or eleven such reticulated " partitions , " at intervals varying from inch ( L26 millims. ) near the centre , to Tl5 inch ( 2-5 millims. ) near the periphery .
As already stated the tubes are not of uniform diameter , those near the centre measuring sometimes no more than inch ( 0'5 millim. ) , whilst near the exterior they often exceed -Jg- inch ( 1 millim. ) , the average diameter being about ^ inch ( 0*735 millim. ) .
The external surface is granular , but in the dry condition it is tolerably smooth ; the interior is smooth and well finished .
The internal cavity whether of the radial tubes or the branches is continuous , exhibiting neither constrictions , septa , nor labyrinthic subdivision .
The thickness of the walls is about -%^-q inch ( 0*125 millim. ) .
The peripheral ends of the tubes are rounded , and closed by an Mr. H. B. Brady .
[ Apr. lg , aggregation of sand-grains of somewhat lighter colour than the rest of the test , in precisely the same way as in arenaria and it| immediate allies .
The rounded terminations are shown in the side view , fig , 3 , at the point marked a ; and on a larger scale in fig. 5 .
With regard to the animal inhabiting the test , there is not much to be said .
When examined by Mr. Murray , fresh from the dredge the tubes were partially filled with dark-coloured sarcode ; and in the preserved specimens , the peripheral portions of the fragments that have been dissected were in this condition .
Owing to the intermixture of sand-grains it has been found impossible to examine the tube-contents Under high magnifying powers , but they appear in all respects similar to the sarcode found in the tests of many of the larger arenaceous Foraminifera which have been preserved in the same way , namely , a dark , somewhat firm , granular , gelatinous mass which on drying forms nearly black branching threads .
There can be no doubt that the organism described in the foregoing paragraphs is the representative of a new type of arenaceous Rhizo-poda , and the generic term Syringammina t\lt ; yryos , a pipe , appot , sand ) with the trivial name , fragilissim appears appropriate for its designation .
In the absence of complete specimens its zoological characters cannot be fully stated , but the following will serve for its identification .
Syringammina fragilissima , nov .
gen .
et sp. Test free ; consisting of a rounded mass of branching , inosculating tubes radiating from a common centre , and arranged in more or less distinct concentric tiers or layers , which are marked by the formation at intervals of a network of lateral branches .
Walls arenaceous , composed of nearly uniform fine sand , with little or no inorganic cement .
Apertures terminal , situated at the peripheral ends of the tubes , closed in with loosely aggregated sand-grains .
Colour dark grey when wet , drying to a much lighter tint .
Diameter about lijg- inch .
\#166 ; 'll The precise habitat of the specimens is given in the following note from the log of the " Triton : " " Station 11 .
August 28th , 1882 , \#151 ; lat. 59 ' 39 ' 30 ' ' FT .
, long .
7 ' 13 ' W. ; depth 555 fathoms ; ooze .
Surface temperature , 57''2 ; bottom temperature 45''5 Fahr. " The position is to the west of the Wyville Thomson Ridge , and close to the " Holtenia Ground " of the " Porcupine " Expedition .
Mr. Murray informs me by letter that " the dredge employed on this occasion was of very much lighter description than those generally used in deep-sed , dredging .
It came up with a large quantity of ooze in the bag , the top layers of which were of pale brown colour , soft and watery , the deeper layers somewhat compact and of slaty hue .
Hpi .
On Syrin gammina .
159 Qne of the specimens rolled out of the oozy layer of the deposit when the dredge was emptied on the deck and broke , unfortunately* in the hands of the sailor who lifted it ; the other was found on passing the mud through the sieves , and when first observed appeared quite spherical .
" y ' .
' * \#166 ; , \#166 ; , ' V , l. ' ' I learn that a somewhat similar specimen was dredged at a depth of 1000 fathoms off the Azores , during the " Challenger " cruise , but that it went to pieces in the sieve * A few words must be added respecting the zoological position and affinities of the new genus .
On the whole , finds its nearest allies , so far as living Foraminifera are concerned , in the deep-sea varieties of AstrorUza .
Comparing it with Astrorhiza arenaria , \ its investing walls are found to be constructed in precisely the same way of loosely aggregated sand , and even in the size of the grains there is great similarity , though this may be in a measure accidental .
But whereas the test of AstrorUza consists ( typically ) of a few tubes , generally unbranched , radiating on one plane from a central cavity or chamber , that of is formed of a multitude of tubes which radiate nearly equally in all directions , and have numerous branches which inosculate freely .
as in Syringammina , the peripheral ends of the tubes serve as the general aperture ; and in both the orifices are masked by aggregations of loose sand , forming rounded and apparently closed terminations .
The genus Parkeria has already been referred to in describing the mode of increase by concentric layers , and both in size and general contour there is considerable resemblance between Syringammina and the fossil type .
But the similarity of internal structure , apparent on a comparison of some of the drawings now furnished , with the illustrations accompanying the original memoir on Parkeria and Loftusia , X is much more remarkable and cannot be passed over without notice .
Owing to the difference in the magnifying powers employed , the resemblance in the drawings is more striking than in * It may be of service to those who have the opportunity of dredging , to note that the sandy skeletons of organisms of this sort may be sufficiently strengthened to bear handling by placing the specimens for a time in strong alcohol , and then drying ; afterwards , when thoroughly dry , saturating with a very dilute solution of dammar in benzole , and draining on blotting-paper .
The dammar solution should be so weak that it does not leave a gloss .
on the surface of the specimen when finished .
\#166 ; f- M. Sars , Carpenter , and Norman assign these deep-sea sandy forms to the same genus as the shallow-water organism , Astrorhiza limicola , which has a chitinous investment , coated with soft mud .
I have not disturbed the arrangement , but my impression is that they represent two distinct genera .
x " Phil. Trans. , " 1869 .
Compare for example the structure of Syringammina as shown in figs. 6 , 7 of the present paper with that of ParJceria and Loftusia as represented in some of the figures in Plates 73 and 79 of the memoir referred to .
160 On Syringammina .
[ Apr. 19 the specimens ; nevertheless the radiate tubular structure and the concentric arrangement of the parts are features common to both forms .
On the other hand , the cancellated layers of which form continuous septa of greater or less thickness , are only represented in Syringammina by an open network of anastomosing tubes .
Mr. Murray has called my attention to the close similarity that exists between the texture of the natural surface of the recent form and that presented by some infiltrated specimens of , after being etched by means of acid .
Morphologically , however , Syringammina appears to find a closer parallel in the group of fossil Rhizopods described by Professor Duncan under the term Syringosp hceridce* Of these the test in its typical condition is a spheroidal body from 1 to 3 inches in diameter , composed of radiating tubes open at their peripheral ends .
The tubes , which are branched and inosculating , are arranged in conical bundles radiating from the centre of the test , and the intervening spaces are filled with an accessory network of branching tubes which present a variety of characters .
The walls are formed of granular carbonate of lime .
The tubes of this fossil type are of much smaller diameter than those of Syringammina , and their association in conical bundles is a very distinctive feature ; besides which , the test presents no evidence of concentric structure .
The material at present available for investigation is insufficient for any detailed comparison of the structure of these organisms , but it is amply sufficient to show that there exist analogies of great interest between the groups they respectively typify ; and it encourages the hope that living specimens may yet be found that shall satisfactorily elucidate the still doubtful points in the organization of the fossil types .
EXPLANATION OP THE PLATES .
' PliATE 2 .
Pigs .
1 , 2 , 3 .
Syringammina fragilissima , natural size .
1 .
Inferior aspect , representing an uneven fractured surface near the middle of the specimen .
The dotted line indicates approximately the original outline .
2 .
Superior aspect of the specimen , representing chiefly an uneven fractured surface near the periphery .
At b the exterior is coated with a film of dried Barcode .
3 .
Lateral aspect .
The portion marked a represents the uninjured natural surface .
* " Karakoram Stones or Syringosphseridse , " by Professor P. Martin Duncan , M.B. , P.R.S. , \amp ; c. , in the " Report on the Scientific Results of the Second Yarkand Mission , " 4to , 3 plates .
Calcutta , 1879 .
Also " On the Genus Stoliczkaria , Duncan , and its Distinctness from Parkeria , Carpenter , " " Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , " 1882 , vol. xxxviii , p. 69 , PI .
2 .
Proc. Ftoy .
Soc/ PL .
ady i. 2 .
, cu Rollick , ad.naut del .
et litk Mini-erru Bros imp SYRINGAMMINA FRAG1LISSIMA .
AT .
Hollielt , a , d.na , t. del .
ei 11th .
Mmterrx Bros imp SYRITST GAMMIKA TRAQILISSIMA 1883 .
] Dr. J. Bell .
Chemistry of Food .
Vi* 4 Section of the test , magnified 50 diameters .
*lg ' The sectjon is of very unequal thickness , but serves to show the arenaceous structure of the test , and the character of the constituent grains many of which are minute Foraminifera .
* A portion of the surface at \#171 ; ( fig. 3 ) magnified 8 diameters ; showing the S ' ' closed terminations of the tubes ; and , at c , a portion of one of the concentric reticulated " partitions .
" Plate 3 .
fjo .
6 .
Radial section ( fractured surface ) magnified 8 diameters ; reticulated Fi\#187 ; - 7 Tangential section ( fractured surface ) on the plane of one of the reticulated " partitions " ( d.d. ) , magnified 8 diameters .
Yis 8 .
Inferior aspect ; a portion magnified 8 diameters , showing the smaller size and contorted form of the tubes near the centre of the test .
April 26 , 1883 .
THE TREASURER , V.P. , in the Chair .
The Presents received , were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the Chemistry of Food .
By James Bell .
Ph. D. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor Frankland , F.R.S. Received April 4 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains the results of researches on butter , cheese , milk , the cereal foods , bread and lentil flour .
The author some time ago , as the result of a series of experiments , indicated that it was probable the soluble and insoluble fatty acids in butter fat did not exist as simple glycerides , but in the complex form of compound ethers\#151 ; palmitic and oleic acids being combined in the same molecule with butyric acid .
The results of a further investigation into the character of butter fat are given , which tend to confirm this theory of its constitution .
Butter fat is proved to vary in composition far beyond the limits previously supposed , and a table of representative samples is given , showing the ordinary variations which occur .
Ordinary fats are contrasted with butter fat , and it is sugVOL .
xxxv .
M

