1882 .
] On the Refraction of Plane Polarised Light .
393 far the posterior part of the nervous system of the Bilateralia can be regarded as derived from the primitive radiate ring .
" A circumoral nerve-ring , if longitudinally extended , might give rise to a pair of nerve-cords united in front and , exactly such a nervous system , in fact , as is present in many Nemertines ( the Enopla and Pelagonemertes ) , in Peripatus and in primitive mol-luscan types ( Chiton , Fissurella , \amp ; c. ) .
From the lateral parts of this ring it would be easy to derive the ventral cord of the Chsetopoda and Arthropoda .
It is especially deserving of notice , in connexion with the nervous system of the above-mentioned Nemertines and Peripatus , that the commissure connecting the two nerve-cords behind is placed on the dorsal side of the intestines .
As is at once .obvious , by referring to the diagram ( fig. 231 B ) , this is the position this commissure ought , undoubtedly , to occupy if derived from part of a nerve-ring which originally followed more or less closely the \#166 ; ciliated edge of the body of the supposed radiate ancestor .
" " Comparative Embryology , " vol. 2 , pp. 311 , 312 .
The facts of development here recorded give a strong additional support to this latter view , and seem to render possible a considerable extension of it along the same lines .
IV .
" On the Refraction of Plane Polarised Light at the Surface of a Uniaxal Crystal .
II .
' ' By R. T. Glazebrook , M.A. , F.R.S. , fFellow and Lecturer of Trinity College , Demonstrator in the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge .
Received December 4 , 1882 .
A paper of mine bearing the above title was read before the Royal Society in November , 1881 , and has since been printed in the Phil. Trans. , " Part II , 1882 .
An abstract appeared in the " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 216 , 1881 .
While continuing with the same apparatus a series of measurements of similar nature , which have occupied me for the greater portion of the present year , I have just discovered a source of error which had hitherto escaped my notice , and which seriously affects all the results I have arrived at .
I have been using a spectrometer made many years since by Grubb , of Dublin , for the late Dr. Robinson , of Armagh , and kindly lent to me by Professor Stokes .
A chance observation has showed me that the object-glasses of both collimator and telescope in this instrument are strongly doubly refracting .
If plane polarised light fall on either , the emergent beam is ellip- \#166 ; \#166 ; \gt ; .r4 2 d 2 On the Refraction of Plane Polarised Light .
[ Dec. 14 , : tically polarised .
The defect is most marked with the object-glass oil the collimator .
If it he looked at between crossed Nicols in a pencil ) of parallel rays the field of view is bright , and is traversed by two brushes , hyperbolic in form , which for two positions of the lens become two straight lines , cutting each other at right angles .
If , again , plane polarised light be allowed to pass through the lens and only the central part of the lens examined , while it is turned round its own axis I find that for four positions of the lens at right angles to each other the emergent beam is quenched by a Nicol placed with its principal plane at right angles to that of the polarising Nicol , the emergent light is plane polarised ; but for all other positions of the lens the light is not quenched , but reduced to a minimum ; the emergent beam is elliptically polarised , and the principal plane of the analysing Nicol is then ( according to Fresnel 's supposition ) parallel to the minor axis of the elliptic vibration .
Moreover , the position , of this minor axis , as the lens is rotated , changes by about 25 ' .
Now , in the experiments described in my paper , it was supposed !
that plane polarised light , polarised in a known plane , fell on a certain prism of Iceland spar .
These recent experiments have shown me that the light was not plane polarised , and that even if we suppose the vibration along the minor axis of the ellipse to be so small that it may be neglected in our theoretical calculations , still the vibration along the major axis will differ considerably in direction from that of the plane polarised beam incident on the lens , while the angle between this major axis and the direction of vibration of the original beam will depend on the position of certain lines in the lens relatively to the plane of polarisation of the incident beam , and will vary as this position changes .
Moreover , the errors produced for two positions of this plane of polarisation differing by 90 ' will be the same in amount but opposite in sign , and this was the case in my experiments .
It is certain that this defect must modify seriously the results of my experiments , it may possibly reduce to nothing the differences recorded in my paper between the electro-magnetic theory of light and experiment .
I have found , moreover , that the defect is a common one with lenses .
Most of those I have tested since I observed it , some ten or twelve in number , show it to some extent .
In none , however , is it so marked as in the one I have had the misfortune to use continuously during the past two and a half years in experiments on polarised light , all of which are affected by it .
I am now endeavouring to-procure a lens suitable for my purpose free from the defect , with the intention of repeating the experiments , and hope at some future time to lay my results before the Royal Society .

