]\gt ; X. BAKERIAN LECTURE.\mdash ; On the the Viscosity riction ) of Liqnids their Chemicat T. E. THORPE , F. R.S. , J. W. BODGER , Assoc. R.C. Received and Read February 22 , ' 1894 .
[ PLATE 8 .
] CONTENTS .
PART I.\mdash ; NATURE 0F THE THOD or , \amp ; c. Page .
Historical Introduction . . . . .
397-406 The viscosity coefficient and modes of measuring . . . .
407-408 Description of apparatus and method employed . . . . .
408-421 The constants of the apparatus . . . . .
Purity of the liquids employed . . . . .
432-433 Deduction of working formula . . . . . .
433-438 Formulae connecting viscosity and tempel.ature . . . .
Scheme of work . . . .
PART \mdash ; THE RESIJLTS Viscosity-coefficients at the temperatures of observation for the various liquids , and formulae connecting the coefficients with the temperature . . .
443-548 PART III.\mdash ; DISCUSSTON OF RESULTS OBTAINED . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
548-549 Graphical 1'epresentation . . . . .
549-573 Algebraical representation .
, . . . . . .
Viscosity magnitudes at comparable temperatures . . . . . . .
586-589 A. Boiling-points . . . . . . . .
B. Corresponding temperatures . . . . . . . .
621 C. 1 .
Temperatures of equal slope . . . . . . . .
2 .
Generality of the results at equal slope . . . .
688-694 8 .
Comparisons at diffe slopes . . . .
694-695 Temperatures at equal sIope . . . . . . . .
General conclusions regarding pbysico-chemical comp risons 704-705 Other methods of obtaining and comparing viscosity magnitudes . . .
705 Appendix . . . .
/ 06-710 PARI1 I. NTRODUCTION .
DURING the half century which has eIapsed since HERMANN KOPP directed attention to the connection which exists between the molecular of substances and their 7 .
11.94 densities , the attempts which have been made to establish similar relationships between the magnitudes of other physical constants and chemical composition have shown that probably all physical constants are to be regarded as functions of the chemical nature of ] ecules , and that the variations in their magnitude observed in passing from substance .
to substance are to be attributed to changes in chemical composition .
The physical properties first investigated from this point of view were naturally those either often measured or at least capable of being easily measured .
To class belong such determinations as density , boiling-point , refractive index , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. On the other hand , properties not so clearly understood , or less readily perceived , received little or no attention .
An example of this kind occurs in connection with the viscosity of liquids .
When a liquid flows , or when its form is altered , forces are called into play within the liquid which offer resistance to the force causing flow or change of form .
The viscosity of the liquid may be taken as a measure of these internal forces , but , although the common use of the terms " " viscid " " oily " " mobile " " limpid \amp ; c. shows that the endeavour has not been wanting to indicate the different character of liquids in respect to this property , it is only within quite recent times that the attempt to obtain quantitative measures of the viscosity , or viscosity-coefficients , for a large numbor of liquids has been made .
This is due to a variety of reasons .
To with , physio-chemical inquiries have been almost exclusive]y carried out by chemists , who have hitherto had little cause to study such a property as viscosity , the conception and mode of quantitative expression of which have been developed by physicists .
Moreover , even from a purely physical point of view , the accurate determination of absolute coefficients of viscosity has been beset with difficulties , both in the theory and practice of the methods employed .
Viscosity is , no doubt , the net result of at least two distinct causes .
When a liquid flows , during the actual collision or contact of its molecules , a true friction-like force will be called into play , opposing the movement .
But , in addition to this force , even after the actual collisions , mole- cular attractions will exercise a resistance to forces which tend to move one molecule past another , and hence it may have been surmised that , even if accurate values of the coefficients of viscosity could be obtained , they might not exhibit simple relationships to chemical composition .
* Although few absolute measures of viscosity have been hitherto published , several researches have been made which may be , in certain cases at least , as being concerned with the relations of viscosity to the chemical characters of substanoes .
That they may lo so regarded arises from the circumstance that the observers have incidentally made use of one of the methods for obtaining the viscosity-coefficient , which consists in noting the time which a definite volume of liquid takes to flow *Comp .
AETZ , WIEDENANN'S Annalen , ' 24 , 25 , 1888 ; , ' WIEDENANN'S Anoalen , ' , $l , 1891 .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
399 through a capillary tube of known size under definite conditions of temperature , pressure , \amp ; c. By suitably arranging the experimental conditions , the reIative times of flow , or , as they have been somewhat inaptly termed , the relative times of transpiration , through the same tube may be considered as proportional to the coefficients of viscosity .
Hence it happens that the historicaI treatment of the investigations which are related to that described in this paper opens with some account of the researches which have been undertake1l to obtain the so-called transpiralion-times ofliquids .
It has to be bome in mind , in dealing with this part of the subject , that in many cases the observers were apparently unaware that they might obtain relative measures of viscosity by the method they employed .
They simply ascertained the time of flow of a liquid , and considered this value as a physical constant under the experimental onditious .
In most cases , as will be made cleal subsequently , these conditions were probably not as would admit of transpiration-time being regarded as a relative measure of the coefficient of viscosity\mdash ; that is , of the real physical constant which was influencing the exI'eriments .
That the flow of , and especially of water , through channels , conduits , and pipes should have so much ] attention in the early days of experimental science is , of course , due to the economic importance of the qubject .
The main resuIt of these ations was to show that the resistance offered to the flow of the liquid was as the square of the velocity , the velocity being in these cases considerable .
About fifty years ago , however , POISEUILLE , starting from physiological considerations , attempted to discover the law of the flow in tubes of very narrow bore where the velocity of exit was but sma and here he found the resistance , to vary not as the square of the velocity , but directly as the velocity .
It was thus evident that the character of the motion of a liquid in a capillary tube where the velocity is small , differed essentially from that occurring in the cases of rapid flow in tubes of iarge diameter .
As is well known , POISEUILLE found that the volume of liquid , in .
millims. , flows in the unit of time through a tube of circular section , the walls of which it wets , may be expressed by the formula , in which is the diameter in millims. of the tube , its length in millims. , the pressure in millims. of mercury , and ( which POISEUILLE regarded as a measure of the fluidity of the liquid ) a constant which varies with the nature of the liquid and its tempel.ature .
The meaning and validity of this empirical expression have been established by the theory of hydrodynamics , and it has been shown that from vations made by POISEUILLE'S method , under suitable conditions and with certain corrections , to be explained hereafter , the viscosity of a liquid may be ascertained .
* STOKBS , 'Cambridge Phil. ' 8 , 304 , 1847 ; WrhDENANIf , ' Pogg .
99 , 177 , 1856 ; E. HAGENBACH , ' Pogg .
Ann , 385 , 1860 ; , 'Wien .
Ber 46 , , 495 , 1862 ; COVETT , 'Ann .
de Chimie et de Phys. ' WILBERFORCE , Phil. ( 5 ) , 31 , 407 , 1891 .
MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THHi RBLAIIONS The attempts made by POISEUILLm to connect the magnitude of with the nature of the liquid were practically restricted to an extension of the prior experiments of GIRARD on the influence of dissolved foreign substances in modifying the velocity of flow of water .
POISEUILLE confirmed the fact that certain of these substances , like common salt , accelerate , whilst others , like nitre , retard the rate of flow of water .
and that in general the action increases , within cel.tain limits , with the amount of substance added .
At first sight it may seem remarkab ] that POISEmLLE should have sought to elucidate the problem by attacking its most complicaied side ; that is , by studying the mutual action of heterogeneous molecules ; but the circumstance is xined when we remember that his primary object was to establish the causes which determine the flow of blood in the capillaries , and to trace the influence of different alimentary substances and medicaments on its movement .
Although no fundamental relations of the kind looked for were discovered , certain facts of a remarkably character were brought to light .
Thus it was found that in the case of mixtures of alcohol and water , there is a oertain mixture for which the time of flow measured at a definite temperature is a maximum , and that this maximum of -flow corresponds with the mixture which shows the maximum degree of contraction , or in obher words is connected with the existence of an apparently definite hydrate , .
Hence it was inferred that such observations might throw considerable light on the molecular constitution of liquids .
The subject was next attacked from point of view by THOMAS GRAHAM ( ' Phil. Trans 1861 , p. 373 ) .
By a method of observation identical in principle with that of POISEUILLE , he confirmed the fact that in the case of mixtures of alcohol and water , the composition of the mixture which had the maximum transpiration-time corresponded with the hydrate ; and he showed that similar relationships were to be found in the case of mixtures of nitric , sulphuric , hydrochloric , acetic , butyric , valeric , and formic acids with water , although the connection of the phenomenon with definite degrees of hydration was not always so well marked as it apparently is in the case of alcohol and water .
Although we are not immediately concerned with this aspect of the subject , it may here.be stated that subsequent investigation has shown that GRAHAM'S main conclusion is not capable of the simple expression which he gave to it .
WIJKANDER ( ' Lund .
physiogr .
Sallsk .
Jubelskrift 1878 , Abstr .
in 'Wied .
Beiblatter , ' vol. 3 , p. 8 , 1879 ) confirmed GRARAM'S observation that iu the of a mixture of acetic acid and water , the maximum transpiration-time occura at with the , but it was also found that at another temperature , the compositio ] ] of the mixture having a maximum transpiration-time was not that of a definite hydrate , showing that the phenomenon is bably dependent on or modified by dissociative changes in the liquid .
( Compare also J. TRAUBE , 'Chem .
Ber vol. 19 , 871 , 1886 ; PAGLIANI and E. ODDONE , 'Atti R. Acc .
dell di Torino , ' vol. , 314 , 1887 , Abstr .
in 'Beibl 1887 , p. 415 ; ARRHENIUS , zeiL fiir physikal .
Chem vol. 1 , p. 285 , 1887 .
) Further investigation is required to BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR MICAL NATURE .
401 how far determinations of viscosity may be taken as the measure of such dissociative changes ; up to the present no simple expression for the relation of the viscosity coefficient of a mixture to those of its components has been deduced .
A point of more immediate importance is that in this Memoir , GRAHAM , for the first time , directed to the desirability of studying the transpirability of homogeneous liquids in connection with their other physical properties , and in respect to their chemical nature .
He determined the transpiration-times of a number of such liquids at the uniform temperature of C. , and compared the observed times with that of water in the same apparatus , at the same temperature .
From observations made on methyl , et .
, and amyl alcohols ; on acetic , butyric , and valeric acids , and on the ethyl esters of these acids he found that the transpiration-time of an alcohol , ester , or acid , increases as its boiling-point under ordinary pressure increases , from which he inferred that a connection exists between transpirability and molecular weight of a kind analogous to that which subsists between boilingpoint and composition , and he suggested the advisability of determining the transpiration-times of homologous series of substances at a fixed and relatively high temperature In 1868 , RELLSTAB ( ' Ueber Transpiration homologer Flussigkeiten , Inaug .
Dissert 1868 ) attempted to develop the subject in the manner indicated by GRAHAM , and at the same time to determine the influence of temperature on the efflux-times of the liquids studied .
POISEUILLE , as already stated , had traced this influence in the case of water ; GRAHAM had repeated the observations on water , and had further studied the case of ethyl alcohol .
RELLSTAB'S method was essentially that of POISEUILLE , the main difference being that the effective pressure was established by ineans of a column of mercury instead of by compressed .
air , and that the observations were made , as a rule , at various temperatures between and .
The intermediate values for every were obtained by graphical interpolation , and the times were compared with that occupied by water at in flowing through the same apparatus under the same pressure ( circa 500 millims. ) .
The experiments gave directly what PRIBRAM and HANDL subsequently designated ( supra ) by the somewhat arbitrary term specific viscosity of the liquids at the temperature of observation .
Calling the specific viscosity , it is expressed by the formula in which is the time of flow of the constant volume of liquid at the temperature of observation , and is the time occupied by the same volume of water at , the pressure which determines the flow being the same in both cases .
RELLSTAB was of opinion that the connection between composition and ation would be best traced by comparing the efflux-times of ' equivalent amounts\ldquo ; instead of the efflux-times of equal volumes of liquids .
The efflux-times of equivalent amounts ere assumed to be obtained by multiplying the observed efflux-times of equal volumes by the molecular weight , and dividing by the density ; in other words , multiplying the CXCIV , observed time by the specific volume at that temperature .
The values of , for so-called " " equivalent amounts were not given with the highest attainable accuracy , inasmuch as the thermal expansion of celtain of the liquids was unknown .
As the range of temperature over which observations extended was only from to and as the relative densities of all the liquids experimented upon were known at he employed in all cases the specific volume at , instead of the true specifio volume at the temperature of observation .
The error thus introduced depends upon the difference between the coefficients of thermal expansion of the liquids under investigation , and may amount to three or four per cent. at the higher temperatures .
The liquids investigated by RELLSTAB were alcohols of the series , certain of the fatty acids , a number of compound ethers ( esters ) , aldehydes , and a few aromatic derivatives .
Slnce the transpiration-time necessarily alters with the temperature , and at a rate varying with each liquid , it of fundamental importance to determine the particular temperature at which the comparison between the individual results should be made .
RELLSTAB assumed , with KOPP , that the temperatures at which the various liquids possessed the same vapour-pressure might be considered as comparable , and adopting LANDOLT'S values for the vapour-pressures , he compared the transpiration-times of ' ' eqoivalent amounts\ldquo ; of the acids of the series at a number of comparable temperatures between and The general result of the observations was to show that in the case of this series of acids the transpiration-time decreases with increasing molecular weight in passing from formic acid to acetic acid , and from acetic acid to propionic acid , but that the differences between the values for the several pairs of acids become less and less as the temperature rises until they become constant .
On passing from propionic acid to normal butyric acid , from butyric acid to valeric acid , from valeric acid to caproic acid , the -times increase with increasing molecular weight , and the differences between the values for any pair of successive homologues at " " comparable temperatures\ldquo ; become less and less with increasing temperature , as in the first case , and tend apparently to become constant .
No simple relation either between the transpiration-times and the molecular weights or between these times and the vapour pressures could be traced by RELLSTAB .
Hence , in the rest of his memoir , RELLSTAB simply follows GRAHAM'S suggestion , and compares the transpiration-times of " " equivalent amounts\ldquo ; of the various liquids , whenever possible , at , the highest temperature to which his experiments extended .
The main conclusions which RELLSTAB deduces from his observations may be thus summarised :\mdash ; 1 .
The transpiration-time of all liquid substances decreases with the temperaturh The decrease for equal intervals is most marked , the longer the time of efflux and ower the temperature .
2 .
An increment of , in an homologous series , is in general accompanied by BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
403 in the time of efflux .
This increase in efflux-time is greater when the increment of takes place in an alcohol radicle than when it takes place in an acid radicle .
3 .
An increase in the transpiration-time also accompanies an increment of CHOH , of , and of O. 4 .
A decrease of accompanies an increment of C. 5 .
Metameric bodies have , in general , different efflux-times .
These are nearer together , the nearer the boiling-points of the ]iquids .
6 .
Substances containing double-linked carbon have a greater efflux-time than those of equal molecular weight containing single-linked carbon .
7. .
An increase or diminution of velocity of transpiration corresponds with an increase or decrease of boiling-point without being a simple function of the latter .
8 .
In any particular homologous series it is possible to determine the direction of the alteration in transpiration-velocity on passing from a lower to a higher member , but not the magnitude of the change .
GUEROIJT ( ' Count .
Rend vol. 81 , p. 1025 , 1875 ; and vol. 83 , p. 1291 , 1876 ) also determined the value of in POISEUILLE'S formula ( taking as the height of a water column ) ab ordinary temperatures for a number of the liquids investigated by RELLSTAB , and from the data PRIBRAM and HANDL have calculated the " " specific viscosities\ldquo ; for equal volumes so as to make the results more directly comparable with those of RELLSTAB .
The numerical values thus given by the two observers are , for the most part , widely different , although certain of their general conclusions are in agreement .
Both find that , as a rule , in an homologous series , an increase of molecular weight is accompanied by an increase of transpiration-time , and GUEROUT confirms the exceptions in the cases of formic and acetic acids .
GUEROUT'S numbers are , with one exception , considerably higher than those of .
In the series of the alcohols the difference is as high as 40 per cent. in the case of butyl alcohol , and is about 20 per cent. in most of the others ; the series of the acids the discrepancy amounts to 5 or 6 per cent. It is impossible to determine exactly to what these divergencies are due , since GUEROUT gives no details either of the character of his preparations or of his method of observation .
GUEROUT found that isomeric esters give the same value for , but RELLSTAB'S observations lend no support to this conclusion .
The most extensive investigation hitherto published on this subject is that by PRIBRAM and HANDL Wien .
Ber Part II .
, vol. 78 , p. 118 , 1878 ; Part II .
, vol. 80 , p. 17 , 1879 ; Part II .
, vol. 84 , p. 717 , 1881 ) , who have determined the " " specific viscosity\ldquo ; of a large number of liquid substances at different temperatures .
Their methods , in principle , were identical with that of POISEUILLE , although it must be admitted that their apparatus was hardly capable of furnishing results at all comparable in point of accuracy with that of their predecessor .
Indeed , the test-observations which they adduce differ among selves by from 2 to 3 per cent. , and , under certain conditions of measurement , successive observations on the same liquid vary by as much as 12 per cent. The comparisons of the specific viscosities were given at temperatures differing by a interval between the maximum limits of and .
The main conclusions which may be deduced from their work , which of course refers to specific viscosities measured at one and the same temperature , are stated.by them as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The substitution in a molecule of Cl , Br , I , and for , in all cases.inereases the specific viscosity of the substance .
This increase is smallest on the introduction of Cl , and increases on the introduction of Br , I , and , and in the order given .
The absolute amount of the increase depends not only upon the nature of the substituting radicle but also upon its position in the molecule .
2 .
Isomeric esters have nearly the same specific viscosity .
Of two isomeric esters that possesses the greater specific viscosity which contains the higher alcohol radicle .
3 .
The ester containing the normal radicle has always a greater specific viscosity than the isomeride containing the iso-radicle , and this obtains no matter whether the isomerism is in the alcohol or the acid radicle .
4 .
The normal aldehydes have invariably a greater specific viscosity than the iso-compounds .
In the case of the alcohols the results are conflicting , although as a rule the normal compounds have a greater specific viscosity than the iso-alcohols .
5 .
The alcohols have a greater specific viscosity than the corresponding aldehydes and ketones .
6 .
In homologous series , in general , the increase in specific viscosity is proportional to the increase in molecular weight ; the actual amount of increase is , however , dependent upon the constitution of .
the molecule , and only becomes constant when the members of the homologous series , considered as binary compounds , contain one constant and one variable member .
PRIBRAM and HANDL'S work undoubtedly constitutes a great advance upon that of their predecessors .
But whilst it establishes the broad fact of a connection between the viscosity of a liquid and the chemical nature of its molecules , it cannot be said that the numerical results afford us any accurate means of determining the quantitative character of this connection .
This is probably due partly to the imperfection of their observational methods and to their mode of treating their results , and partly also to the uncertainty of the basis of comparison ; possibly , aJso the nature of the liquids themselves may have occasioned , to some extent , the equivocal character of the results , for it is impossible to gather from such data as are given that the liquids approached the standard of purity which is desirable in an investigation of this kind .
R. GARTENMEISTER ( ' Zeits .
fur physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 6 , p. 524 , 1890 ) has also determined the viscosity of a large number of organic substances and has expressed his results in absolute measure .
His method consisted in allowing the liquid to flow from bulb-shaped pipettes through capillary tubes in the manner already adopted by BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
405 OSTWALD and ARRHENIUS ( ' Zeits .
fur physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 7 , p. 285 , 1887 ) .
The greater number of the determinations were made at the temperature of , but in the cases of formic and butyric acids , and in those of methyl , ethyl , propyl , iso-propyl , and -butyl alcohols , a series of estimations at every between and was made .
GARTENMEISTER finds that although , in general , viscosity may be said to increase with molecular weight , there are apparently numerous exceptions to this rule .
These are seen not only among the initial members of the fatty acid series , but also among the esters of aceto-acetic acid .
Metameric esters frequently possess different viscosities , as already observed by RELLSTAB .
On the other hand , RELLSTAB'S con- clusion that the viscosities more nearly approximate the smaller the difference in boiling-point is only generally true .
On comparing the boiling-points of the acetoacetic esters with their viscosities , it is found that the boiling-point of the ethyl ester is always an equal number of degrees higher than that of the methyl ester of the same acid , whereas , in the case of the viscosities , the relations are of quite another order .
BRUHL ( ' Ber 13 , 1529 ) has pointed out that it is probable that in the case of isomeric bodies more time would be required for an equal number of molecules to flow through a capillary tube of.that particular compound which has the higher boilingpoint , the greater relative density , and the greater refractive index ; or , in other words , that the viscosity of a liquid stands in the same relation to its chemical constitution as do its other physical constants .
GARTENMEISTER finds that , although the statement may be taken as generally true , there are numerous exceptions .
RELLSTAB concluded that containing so-called double-linked carbon transpire more slowly than those of equal molecular weight containing single-linked carbon .
PRIBRAM and HANDL , however , found that the " " specific viscosity\ldquo ; of allyl alcohol is less than that of propyl alcohol , and GARTENMEISTER observed that diallyl has a lower viscosity than dipropyl .
On the other hand , the viscosity of benzene is more than double that of dipropyl .
If it is assumed that there is double linking in both allyl compounds and in benzene , it would seem to follow that the relatively high viscosity of benzene cannot be ascribed wholly to double linking , but is rather on those properties that we associate with the ring mode of atomic grouping .
This view of the influence of the ring grouping is confirmed by the study of other aromatic compounds .
GARTENMEISTER further condudes from PRIBRAM and HANDL'S observations that , within the limits of temperature at which the determinations have been made , viscosity of compounds containing an equal number of carbon toms in which Cl , Br , and I replace each other is proportional to the molecular weight .
In the case of homologous series the viscosity is proportional to the square of the molecular weight .
The introduction of the hydroxyl group into the .
molecule greatly increases the viscosity of the liquid .
This is strikingly illustrated by the instances of propyl alcohol , propylene glycol , and glycerin .
Indeed , the high viscosity of solutions of carbohydrates , e.g. , the sugars , gums , \amp ; c. , is probably dependent on the relatively numerous hydroxyl groups present in the molecule .
The manner in which the hydroxyl group is combined seems , however , to have considerable influence on the viscosity .
Thus , in the cases of the isomeric substances , benzyl alcohol and metacresol , it is found that , in the first-named substance , in which the hydroxyl group occurs in the side chain , the viscosity is very much less than that of the second , in which the hydroxyl group is attached to a carbon atom in the benzene ring .
The foregoing observations practically include all that may be regarded as attempts to determine connection between the viscosity and the chemical nature of homogeneous liquids .
A very large amount of experimental work has been especially in the physical laboratories of OSCAR E. MEYER , WIEDENANN , and OSTWALD , on saline solutions and mixtures , in order to trace analogies and relations between viscosity and electric conductivity , temperature , concentration , \amp ; c. ; but while these researches have been of great service in regard to the applicability and value of observational methods , they have added little to our knowledge of the special question with which we are more immediately concerned .
Although it is manifest from the foregoing account that relationships do exist between the chemical character of liquid substances and that property which is related to their times of transpiration , it must be admitted that these relationships are not very precisely defined by such experimental evidence as we.have at present .
Instances have been given in which the results of different observers , and in some cases even those of the same observer , differ among by amounts which cannot be reasonably attributed to imperfections in the principle of the methods employed .
As a general rule , the plan adopted seems to have been to make relatively rough observations on as many liquids as could be obtained , rather than to institute a careful and systematic comparison between a few of well established purity .
Moreover , the nature of the conditions by which truly comparable results could alone be obtained , has received but scant consideration .
For example , it seems futile to expect that any definite stoichiometric relations should become evident by comparing observations taken at the same temperature .
A few attempts have been made to ascertain the influence of temperature on the time of transpiration , but these are insufficient both in number and temperature range to admit of a trustworthy deduction of ] of the variation .
It seemed obvious therefore that in order to investigate the subject with reasonable hope of discovering stoichiometric relations , one essential point was to ascertain more precisely the influence of temperature on viscosity , and then to compare the results under conditions which have been found to be suitable in similar investigations in chemical physics .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF , LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
407 DEFINITION 0F VISCOSITY COEFFICIENT .
It has already been stated that the time which a liquid takes to flow through a capillary tube , is , under certain conditions , a measure of its viscosity .
The necessary conditions will be given at length subsequently .
It will be sufficient here to indicate the meaning of viscosity , and the principles involved in it .
In the case of an ideal solid , the value of the fraction is a constant ; whereas in the case of a liquid this ratio depends on the time during which the force acts .
Determined for unit-time , the fraction may be taken in the case of a liquid as a measure of its viscosity or its resistance to change of form .
The coefficient of viscosity is thus given by the expression Deforming force Deformation per unit time .
Consider a quantity of liquid contained between two parallel planes of unit area at a distance S apart , and let a tangential force act on the liquid so that the planes move parallel to one another , and let the displacement of one plane relative to the ' other , which may be considered at rest , be S\fnof ; mD If the velocity of any stratum be assumed to be proportional to its distance from the fixed plane , then the deformation of the substance between the planes per unit time , or the rate of shear , is measured by the velocity of displacement of any stratum divided by its distance from the fixed plane , and thus by S'/ S , so that , if be the tangential force per unit area acting on either of the planes , and exerted by the substance in resisting deformation , If , that is , if the displacement is equal to the distance from the fixed plane , , and the coefficient of viscosity can then be defined .
It is the force which is necessary to maintain the movement of a layer of unit area past another of the same area with a velocity numerically equal to the distance between the layers , when the space between them is continuously filled with the viscous substance .
Or may be defined as the tangential force which must be exerted on unit area of each stratum of liquid in order to maintain the flow when the velocity is changing in a * Different symbols have been used in different countries to indicate the coefficient of viscosity .
In France , in Germany , and in this country , have been commonly employed .
The use of seems objectionable as it is now largely employed for the refractive index of a substance ; it is also sometimes used to deno magnetic permeability and also the micro-millimeter .
We therefore prefer , in conformity with German custom , to make , of to denote the coefficient of viscosity .
direction normal to the movement in such a way that strata at unit distance apart have velocities which differ by unity .
The dimensions of are therefore It seemed advisable to design an apparatus which would admit of the determination , in absolute measure , of this coefficient for different substances and for a temperature range from up to the ordinary boiling-point of the particular liquid .
In this way instead of finding , as has been the usual custom , rela , tive times of flow hrough the same apparatus under the same external conditions of temperature and pressure , and which might or might not be taken , as will be shown later , as measures of a single physical magnitude of the substance , that is , of its viscosity , the physical magnitude ] could be measured and the various influences which have been found to affect its value could be allowed for .
The physical constants thus obtained could then be treated from the point of view of the chemist and the comparison would thus be of the same kind as that employed in connection with other physical magnitudes , such as densities or refractive indices .
MODES 0F MEASURING VISCOSITY .
Although the transpiration method has been almost exclusively used in researches of this kind , there are other methods ofobtaining the value of .
One of the oldest methods is due to COULOMB ( ' Mem. de l'Inst .
Not vol. 3 , p. 261 , 1800 ) .
It consisted in suspending a disc or cylinder within a mass of liquid and setting the disc or cylinder oscillating .
From the diminution in the amplitude of the oscillations the value of the coefficient of viscosity may be calculated .
Another method depending on observations of the oscillation of a liquid in a -shaped tube was first proposed by LAMBERT ( Mem. de l'Acad .
de Berlin , 1784 ) .
The oULOMB method was modified by MAXWELL .
PIOTROWSKI , at HELMHOLTZ'S suggestion , instead of a regular solid in the liquid .
obtained values of by oscillating a hollow sphere filled with the liquid ; and quite recently O. .
MEYER has shown that by the use of a hollow cylinder instead of a sphere , the accuracy obtainable in the theoretical treatment of the observations is considerably increased .
None of these methods was suited for values of over wide temperature ranges ; moreover , the large volume of liquid required to carry them out precluded their use in our case , owing to the difficulty of obtaining such large quantities of liquid in a state of sufficient purity .
The tube method was therefore alone available for our purpose .
It is satisfactory to note that MUTZEL has obtained with the hollow cylinder a value for at which is identical with that deduced from the tube observations of POISEUILLE .
GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD AND DESCRIPTION OF THE APPARATUS EMPLOYED 1N TH1S INVESTIGATION .
The principle of the method employed by us consists in observing- the time required for a definite olume of liquid , under a definite pressure , to } ) through BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHFMICAL NATURE .
409 a capillary tube of known size , the temperature being known and kept uniform during the interval .
The liquid under observation is contained in a vessel fitted with a capillary tube .
This instrument , on the suggestion of Principal , we propose to term a glischrometer .
It is immersed in a bath of water or ] ycerin , the temperature of which can be altered as desired .
The definite volume of liquid which is forced through the capillary tube is measured by suitable marks etched upon the instrument .
A head of water serves to set up the pressure , which is ascertained by a water nometer , and the time of flow is noted by means of a stop-watch .
In decidiug upon the form of the glischrometer several conditions had to be observed .
In most of the instruments used by previous observers , the liquid after passing through the capillary was allowed to escape , and hence the apparatus had to be re-charged before another observation could be made .
In the form adopted by us the time spent in re-charging was saved , b.y arranging that in all the observations on any one liquid the same ] could be used repeatedly ; and further economy in time was obtained by arranging that observations could be taken while the liquid was flowing in either direction through the capillary tube , and that while an observation was in progress , and liquid was leaving one portion of the instrument , it was entering another portion and getting into position for a fresh observation .
It was also desirable to avoid the use of corks or caoutchouc , at least in such as would be in contact with the liquid ; it was therefore necessary the instrument should be made entirely of glass .
This condition presented the first serious difficulty in construction .
To obtain absolute values of the coefficient of viscosity the exact dimensions of the capillary tube had to be known , and the problem to be solved was , how to seal the capillary tube to the other parts of the instrument in such a way that the direction and size of its bore should not be altered .
The form of apparatus designed to meet these requirements is shown in It consists of two upright limbs , , and , ( left and right ) , connected near their lower ends by a cross-piece .
Within the cross-piece is the capillary tube , the bore of which is about 008 centim. radius , and the thickness of the wall about 2 millims. , the internal radius of the cross-piece being a mi]limeter or so greater than the external radius of the capiIlary .
At the zone , , the of the cross-piece are constricted and made continuous with those of the capillary , the latter is thus gripped at its middle portion and held axially within the cross-piece .
The use of the cross-piece will now be obvious , for by its means the risk of altering the bore of the ] tube was lessened , as only one sealing operation was necessary in order make the capillary tube the sole means of communication from the one limb to the other .
To ascertain that thia was really the case and that the capillary was quite continuous with the cross-piece all the way round , two simple tests were applied .
A deeplycoloured liquid was introduced into the instrument , when it was observed that the colour was stopped entirely at the zone , .
The second co1lsisted in hffi filling one limb with water and blowing air from the empty limb through the water in the other .
Bubbles of air Qsued through the bore of the capillary tube only ; of course , if any passage had existed cross the zone , its presence would have beeu revealed by a stream of bubbles .
On one side of each lirnb of the instrument three fine horizontal lines were etched , , on the left limb ; , on the right limb .
volumes of the limbs between and and between and were carefully determined ; these represent the volumes of liquid which flow through the capillary .
The time taken by the level of the liquid to pass from the upper to the lower of either of these pairs of marks is the time observed in the experiments .
The limb is constricted in the vicinity of the marks , in order to give sharpness in noting the coincidence of the meniscus with the mark .
The shape of the limb between the marks was made cylindrical rather than spherical , in order that the contained liquid might the more readily acquire the temperature of the bath in which the glischrometer was placed during an observation .
It will be seen from the figure that the upper ends of the limbs terminate within the glass traps .
These traps admit of slight adjustments of the volumes of liquid contained in the limbs , and their use , which is connected with that of the marks and , will be evident at a later stage .
During an experiment the levels of liquid in the two limbs are continually altering .
It will be sufficient here to state that the object of these marks and traps is to ensure that at the beginning of any observation in a particular limb the effective head of the liquid contained in the TWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
411 chrometer shall be constant and shall be known .
Let us suppose that an observation is to be made in the right limb ; the liquid level in the left limb is just brought into coincidence with the mark , when any excess of liquid will flow over into the trap ; hence the effective head of liquid extends from to , and is thus known .
similar proceeding is carried out for the left limb observations , using the mark and trap .
The marks and have been placed by trial in such positions that the volume from to is almost equal to , but slightly greater than , that from to The reason for this will be given subsequently .
The volumes and are the working ] umes ofliquid used in the observations .
From what has been said it will be seen at the beginning of an observation in the right limb the liquid level is at .
In order to allow the observer time to get ready to take the necessary readings before the liquid level falls to , which time is but short in the case of mobile Iiquids , the limb is expanded into a bulb , as shown in fig. 1 , just above .
After the liquid has fallen to and the time has been noted , readings of temperature , pressure , \amp ; c. , have to be taken immediately ; to give the necessary tinle for these readings , the limb is again enlarged below the mark , so that they can be taken before the level in the right limb falls , and the level in the left rises to Similar reasons explain the shape of the left limb .
The lower extremities of the limbs are also expanded and bulb-shaped .
This form was given to them , so that , if by any mischance any solid particles were present in the liquid under experiment , they would tend to collect in the hollow under the end of the capillary .
The instrment was made of thin glass to facilitate the passage of heat through its walls .
It was therefore somewhat fragile , and would probably not have lasted throughout the observations had pains not been taken in its treatment .
When immelsed in the bath it was attached by light brass clips to a brass framework ( see fig. 3 ) .
Whenever possible it was only manipulated when attached to this frame , and in this way it could be filled with liquid and cleaned with little risk of age .
The general arrangement of ths whole apparatus is shown in fig. 2 .
The scale is A bath , which for observations at temperatures below 10 contains water , and for higher temperatures glycerin , is supported on an iron stand , which is placed on a table in front of a window .
* The bath is divided into two compartments .
The inner compartment is provided back and fro.nt with plate glass walls ; the rest of the bath made of brass .
The outer compartment bounds the inner at the sides , and underneath , and is fitted with a tap for usting the quantity of liquid which it contains .
The brass framework carrying the glischrometer , and thermometer , can be lowered into vertical slots in the lateral of the inner compartmen ; when thus situated the glischrometer occupies a central position in the bath .
The walls of both compartments are provided with guides , along which move stirrers consisting of brass plates pierced with holes , which are attached to suitable rods and cross pieces , and are worked by a small water-motor , which is connected with the upper cross piece * In practice two baths were used , one containing water , the other glycerin .
by a cord and pulley arrangement as shown in the figure .
The length of the cord , which ries with the atmospheric conditions , is adjusted by a hook and chain .
sets of stirrers fixed to the rods at different heights move in front of and behind the glischrometer in the inner compartment , and of course at the sides in the outer comparbment .
Lids pierced holes for the stirring rods , thermometer , and india-rubbertubes , covel in the top of the bath .
The lids covering the outer compartment can be removed or replaced , eveu while the stirrers are in motion , without disturbing anything .
The rubber tube connects the right limb of the glischrometer with the glass tube , in which is inserted the three-way cock .
In the same way connects the left limb of the glischrometer with the tube fitted with the three-way cock At and are united by a -piece which leads to the bottle containing a quantity of sulphuric acid , which can be abstracted or replaced by means of the siphon W. The acid serves to dry air in its passage from the reservoir to the glischrometer .
When hygroscopic liquids are being experimented upon , the exit tubes of the three-way cocks are provided with small tubes filled with calciumchloride to prevent access of atmospheric moisture to t , he glischrometer .
In this way it is insured that dry air only is in contact with the liquid under examination .
By the tube , which extends from within a few millimeters of the surface of the acid in to a centimeter or so below the cork L',.and which is fitted with the cock , the air in may be put into communication with the large air reservoir L. This consists of a glass bottle of about 30litres capacity , encased in a wooden box , and surrounded with sawdust to prevent excessive fluctuation of temperature .
A glass tube , which reaches to within 5 millims. of the bottom of , is connected , as shown , by india-rubber tubing with the water reservoir R. The air in is compressed by raising the water reservoir , the height of which can be regulated by a cord leading by a system of pulleys to the stud X , in close proxirnity to the position occupied by the observer , and to the water manometer , which indicates the pressure set up in the collfined air-space .
The manometer is connected with the air reservoir by the tube I , I , which has a common termination with the tube N. Leading from to the air is the tube furnished with a stop-cock .
This tube is but seldom used ; it serves to make fine adjustments of the pressure by allowing small quantities of air to escape from , and is also useful when it is necessary to quickly bring the air in to atmospheric pressure .
The three-way cocks and serve to put either limb of the glischrometer in connection with the atmosphere or with the air reservoir , or to cut off communication of either limb with the reservoir or the atmosphere .
By their means the air reservoir may also be put into connection with the atmosphere .
When the apparatus is not in use , and the glischrometer has been removed ffom the bath , the cocks and are turned so as to cut off communication from to the air , and the reservoir is hung upon a peg which is attached to the table at a level below that of the bottom of the air reservoir .
After water has siphoned over from to , and the air in the former has thus been reduced to atmospheric pressure , the cock is turned to prevent unnecessary absorption of water from by the acid in M. In front of the bath is placed the iron stand , which is fitted with ] screws and rests on the low wooden support shown .
Fixed to the stand are three vertical brass rods each carrying a telescope .
The telescope on the middle rod is used for reading the thermometer T. The telescope on the rod to the right of the middle rod is used for viewing the marks on the right limb of the glischrometer , that on the rod on the left for the marks on the left limb .
On these outer rods are fitted the stops , which have been so placed that , after ] the stand , when a telescope and a stop are in contact ; one of the marks of the glischrometer is in the field of view .
The stop-watch is kept on the table just to the right of the telescope support .
To obtain observations at temperatures above that of the atmosphere , the bath is heated by Bunsen burners , which are protected from draughts by a zinc screen fitted with glass in order that the flames may be seen .
The gas supply is regulated by a quadrant tap , , fixed to the side of the table close to the observer 's hand .
Temperatures below that of the atmosphere are obtained by introducing fragments of ice into the outer compartment of the bath , this compartment being kept uncovered by the lids at such times .
The double bath not only tends to keep the liquid round the glischrometer of a more uniform temperature , but it also has the advantage that the liquid in the inner compartment need not be ren ewed very frequently , as any dust or dirt introduced while regulating the temperature is confined to the outer compartment , and thus in no way interferes with the telescope readings .
METHOD OF EXPERIMENT .
Before introducing the liquid to be examined , it was essential that the glischrometer should be perfectly clean and dry .
The instrument was first rinsed out by successive quantities of dust-free water , alcohol , and , or , under ordinary circumstances , alcohol and ether only , ] allowed to drain .
It was then transferred to a specially constructed air-bath , heated to about or , and a current of air , filtered through cotton wool , and dried by oil of vitriol , was drawn through it for some time .
The liquids used for washing were obtained dust-free by distillation in an apparatus made entirely of glass , consisting of a large Wurtz flask , fitted with a well-ground glass stopper , the exit tube being sealed to a glass tube , which was passed through a Liebig 's condenser .
were stored in ether bottles which , in addition to well-fitting glass stoppel .
, had glass caps ground on to their necks .
The liquid is gently distilled in this apparatus and , after sufficient time has been BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
415 allowed for the tube of the condenser to be rinsed out , the distillate is collected in the clean and dry store bottle .
A small quantity ofliquid is allowed to , and the bottle is then rinsed out .
After this process has been repeated three or four times , the bottle is allowed to fill up with the distillate , and if on examination with a lens , when the bottle is held up to the light , the liquid shows no trace of suspended matter , it is regarded as dust-free .
If suspended matter is present the distillation is repeated .
As a rule , by the use of this glass apparatus , one distillation of liquid , which has been distilled in the ordinary way , gives a sample free from dust .
A special piece of apparatus was made in order to introduce and withdraw liquid from the glischrometer .
The essential parts of the apparatus are seen in .
On one side of a mahogany stand , which is 75 centims. high and 17 centims. square , is fitted , by brass clips , a .
centim. pipette , , which serves as an air reservoir .
Connecting this pipette with a similar one containing mercury , is a short straight glass tube with a stop-cock , , and a rubber tube .
The mercury pipette can be hung upon either of the hooks or , and in this way the air in the reservoir can be put under increased or diminished pressure .
Connected by a -piece with the air reservoir , are the two vertical glass tubes , and , each provided with -cocks .
One of these tubes can be joined by rubber tubing to the horizontal limb of a small -piece , , the vertical limb of which passes through until it isjust underneath the cork of the bottle , , containing the liquid to ' introduced into the glischrometer .
A light ] bottle of about 25 cub. centims. capacity , to the base of which a disc of lead has been cemented to give it increased stability , was found ofconvenient size as a filling bottle .
To the upper or free end of the vertical branch of the nall T-piece , , 2 centims. or so of narrow rubber tubing are fixed , which allow the short branch of a narrow siphon , , to pass air-tight into the liquid in the ] bottle .
The siphon was made by pulling out a piece of quill tubing in the blow-pipe flame , and bending it twice at right angles .
The long branch extends downwards some 35 centims. or so , parallel to the front side of the mahogany stand .
The second vertical tube , , leading to the air reservoir , is for quickly putting the air in the reservoir to pressure .
It can also be used to introduce dry air , or other gas , to the reservoir and bottle .
when a hygroscopic or decomposable liquid is being employed .
The other side of the stand is fitted with an exactly similar arrangement of pipettes and stop-cocks .
A vertical brass rod , , extends along the middle of the entire length of the front side of the stand at a distance of 2 or 3 millims. from it .
Along this rod slides a closely-fitting brass tube , , which can be clamped to the rod by a screw and milled head , N. cross-arms , , are attached to the brass tube , and the ends of these arms have been so constructed that they may be readily made to support and hold vertically the brass frame , , carrying the glischrometer .
By means of this arrangement the glischrometer can be brought under the long branch of the siphon , and can be fixed with the end of the latter at any desired height within the right or the left limb .
On regulating the heights of the mercury reservoir on the and , and of the glischrometer , and manipulating the stop-cocks , definite quantity of liquid can with ease be introduced or withdrawn from the instrument .
On several occasions , during the course of the investigation , the glischrometer was treated with hot , strong nitric acid , in order to remove grease , free alkali , \amp ; c. While the glischrometer was drying , the filling bottle and siphon , which , of course , had been rinsed out with the same liquids as the glischrometer , were also being dried .
The bottle was heated on a steam tray , in a glass crystallizing dish , the top of which was covered by a glass plate to exclude dust .
When warm , a ream of air filtered through cotton wool was blown through it .
It was then corked , the ends of the -piece being closed with short lengths of rubber tubing plugged by pieces of glass rod .
The liquid under investigation was then distilled , in the apparatus described later , into the filling bottle .
The latter having been repeatedly rinsed out with the dust-free liquid , a suitable quantity was then collected and the bottle corked .
The siphon , which meanwhile had been kept on glass supports in a cupboard out of the way of dust , was now suspended over the steam tray : and a current of filtered air was then driven through it .
When dry it was wiped on the outside with a clean silk BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
417 cloth , and fitted to the filling bottle in the manner already described .
The siphon was rinsed out by allowing a few drops of the liquid to be examined to run through it .
It was then slowly emptied by putting the filling bottle under diminished pressure .
When it empty , and bubbles are just about to be drawn through it into the liquid in the bottle , the latter is put to air and the air current thus stopped .
This method has always to be used in order to empty the siphon , and the process must be slow in the case of volatile liquids , otherwise evaporation takes place so quickly at the free end of the siphon that ice crystals form and the siphon has to be dried anew .
The quantity of liquid necessary to carry out an observation is greater than can be in any one limb of the glischrometer .
Instead , however , of filling the requisite amount into each limb by means of the siphon , time is saved , and risk of introducing dust is lessened , by filling liquid into one limb and by putting the other limb to reduced pressure , the requisite quantity of liquid being aspirated into it through the tube .
The method uniformly employed was to allow the siphon to extend to the bottom of the right limb , the filling bottle being attached to the pressure arrangement on the right side of the stand .
The left limb of the apparatus was then connected by the rubber tube , fig. 3 , to the pressure arrangement on the left side of the stand .
The siphon was slowly set in action , and , after the liquid level had risen above the capillary , the left limb was put under diminished pressure .
It was necessary to allow but a small quantity of liquid to enter the left limb ; when sufficient was introduced the pressure brought up to that of the atmosphere and the filling of the right limb proceeded with .
During this process , by lowering the glischrometer , the end of the siphon was kept just below the surface of the liquid ; in this way only a short length of the outside of the siphon was wetted , and risk of introducing adherent dust minimised .
When almost enough liquid had been introduced the frame carrying the glischrometer was clamped , so that the end of the siphon was at the height to be occupied finally by ) liquid level .
When the level of liquid had reached the end of the siphon the latter was emptied in the manner indicated .
The volume of liquid to be introduced was found by trial ; it was slightly more than was necessary for the purpose of observation when liquid has the lowest temperature at which experiments were made .
The quantity had not to exceed a certain limit , for , as will be seen presently , the tr ) , fig. 1 , would thus be filled , and the observations would be interrupted before they had extended over the requisite ran of temperature .
It was also found convenient , in order to avoid the introduction of liquid into trap during filling , to aspirate such a quantity of liquid iuto the left limb that the necessary volume of liquid was introduced into the glischrometer when the right limb was filled up to about the Mobile liquids run so quickly through the siphon that when the liquid eached the desired level , the action of the siphon can be reversed , so much liquid enter the glischrometer that if .
the volume of the limb up to the } is not considerN DCCCXCIV .
able , the latter may be filled , and must be elnptied before the observations can be commenced .
When the volume of liquid in the glischrometer had been adjusted , the rubber tube was detached from the glischrometer , which was then lowered , the siphon moved aside , the tubes and ( fig. 2 ) fitted to the ight and left limbs , and the ends of each stopped a glass rod .
The fra1ne and glischrometer were now retaoved from the filling stand , and any small air bubbles which occasionally lodged in the interspace between the capillary tube and the cross piece of the glischrometer were removed .
The thel.mometer was now fitted to the frame , which was next lowered into the slots in the sides of the bath .
The water-bath was used for low temperature observations , and in the case of this bath , the stirrers were next introduced .
The lid of the inner compartment , which was pierced with holes for the rubber tubes and the thet.mometer , was then fitted on , and the bath placed in position directly under the pulley over which passes the cord leading to the motor .
In the case of the glycerin bath , the stirrers remain permanently in the liquid , the glischrometer being introduced by unscrewing the cross pieces connecting the stirring rods and taking off the lid covering the inner compartment .
This lid is made in one piece , and can only be removed in this way , or along with the stirrers as is done in the case of the water-bath .
After adjusting the position of the bath , the rubber tubes ( fig. 2 ) were at once fitted to the glass tubes respectively , and the cocks turned so as to put the limbs of the Qchrometer in connection with the air reservoir , and thus under equal .
The water reservoir was then raised to the required height , care being taken to wet the walls of the manometer for some distance above the points where readings were to be made .
In this way , before the first observation was started , and in the interval between subsequent observations the experimental liquid was kept under the increased pressure of the air in the reservoir .
Two advantages arise from this arrangement .
In the first place , the air in contact with the liquid is dry , which would not be the case if the pressure in each limb were kept equal by putting the three-way cocks to air , and secondly , evaporation of the liquid in the glischrometer under the increased pressure is retarded .
At high tempe- ratures the loss of liquid by evaporation during the interval between two observations , when the temperature is being raised , and afterwards when it is becoming steady , would in some cases be so great as to impair the volume necessary for the next observation if the liquid were kept at atmospheric pressure for such a length of time .
Having established the pressure and having adjusted the length of the cord leading from the stirrers to the motor , the latter was put on to the water main and the stirrers set in motion .
If the experimental liquid did not solidify above ice was now introduced into the outer compartment of the bath , and as it melted the supply was replenished , the water fornled being removed at intervals by the tap .
The motor was easily conBETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF .
LTQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
419 trolled .
The rate of stirring was altered by regulating the water supply and the length of stroke adjusted by attending to the cut-off .
By rapid stirring the temperature soon falls , and becomes steady at or , the exact temperature depending on the temperature of the laboratory .
As a general rule , observations at as nearly as possible the same temperature were taken in both limbs of the glischrometer ; for this purpose , as will be evident from what follows , the first observation at a given temperature had to be taken in the right limb .
When the liquid in the glischrometer had acquired the constant temperature of the bath , the first point to be attended to was the nent of the working volume of liquid .
During the time that the glischrometer had been standing after being filled , the liquid was slowly flowing through the capillary , and the level , which after filling was much higher in the right limb , had been falling and approaching that in the left limb .
The cock was now turned so as to ) the.right limb of the glischrometer to air .
The pressure of the air reservoir , which was acting upon the liquid in the left limb , caused the level in this limb to ] , and as soon as the meniscus , as seen by a lens through the glass wall of the bath , touched the mark , fig. 1 , the pressure on both limbs was equalised .
The slight excess of liquid over the volume which was introduced in filling the glischrometer , escaped into the trap .
This process was carried out before observing the time of flow at any temperature , and in this way the beginning of any experiment , the head of liquid in the limb , subject to a small correction for expansion of the glass of the ometer , was constant .
As will be shown later , by this means a pressure correction for the effect of the varying head of liquid in the limbs of the glischrometer during the time of flow can be evaluated .
The head of liquid having been adjusted , the left limb was now put to air .
Under the pressure of the air reservoir the level in the right limb , which meanwhile had been slowly filling , descended more rapidly .
The telescope on the right-hand outer rod now clamped against the upper stop , when the mark was in the field .
As soon as bhe meniscus was seen through the telescope to touch this mark the stud of the stop-watch was pressed and the hands started .
Readings of the thermometer through the telescope , of the water levels in the manometer , and of the manometer thermometer through a lens , were immediately taken .
The telescope on the right hand rod unclamped and allowed to slide down to the lower stop , the mark being then in view .
During the experiment , attention was directed to keeping the temperature of the bath as uniform as possible .
This temperature was noted at regular intervals during the flow , and if the latter were long , the manometer readings were also repeated .
When the meniscus was seen through the telescope touch the mark the hands of the watch were arrested and readings of the thermometer and manometer noted immediately as before .
The time indicated by the watch was next taken , and the hands brought back to zero .
If it was judged that these final readings could be taken and noted.before the level in the limb to the disposition of the cocks was left unaltered ; if the level , however , was falling too rapidly to admit of these observations , both limbs were put under the same pressure before the level fell to the mark To take an observation in the left limb , precisely similar operations were gone through .
The volume of liquid was first adjusted by bringing the level in the right limb to .
Since , under circumstances , the left limb observation was taken at the same temperature as the previous one in the right limb , and from the fact the limb is expanded below the mark , sufficient time is given to the observer before the meniscus passes from to to enable him to begin the observation in the left limb , the cocks , , having remained undisturbed from the beginning of the right limb observation .
The working volume ; , is , as already stated , shghtly less than .
This was necessary because at high temperatures during the flow from the right a small but appreciable loss of liquid by evaporation took place , chiefly from the left limb , which was , of course , at atmospheric pressure .
It was necessary , therefore , in order that observations might be taken at the same temperature in either limb , that the working volume in the left limb should be the smaller .
Care had to be taken not to make the difference of the volumes too great , for in order that the ight limb observation may be taken after a left limb observation , the difference between the volumes must be made up by the expansion of the liquid in attaining the next higher temperature of observation , and in some cases this temperature interval is small\mdash ; some or so .
Having taken the necessary readings in the left limb , the pressure was equalised on the two limbs before the level of liquid fell to and the bath was now raised to the next temperature of observation .
To obtain temperatures between and the atmospheric temperature , hot water , and , when necessary , ice were introduced into the outer compartment of the bath , and after several trials the quantity of boiling water needed to effect a given rise of temperature , and the quantity of ice which had to be added from time to time in order to maintain it constant , were ascertained with considerable precision .
After the temperature of the bath had become steady and the liquid in the glischrometer had had time to acquire it , the head of liquid was adjusted and the observations taken as already described .
To maintain the temperature just above that of the atmosphere small quantities of boiling water were from time to time introduced into the outer compartment of the bath ; for higher temperatures up to , the water-bath was by small Bunsen burners .
Temperatures above were obtained by the use of the glycerin bath , the water bath containing the glischrometer being allowed to cool to about , and the glischrometer then transferred to the glycerin bath , which had been previously warmed over a steam tray .
The glycerin bath was heated a large Bunsen burner with a spreading flam1 .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL During its flow the liquid in one limb of the glischrometer was at atmospheric pressure , an observation could therefore not be taken at a temperature above the ordinary boiling-point of the liquid .
The highest temperature at which an obser vatiou was taken depended on the appearance of bubbles of vapour in the liquid .
It invariably happened that bubbles began to form in the left limb , never near the capillary , but in the region of the mark .
The temperatur was raised till bubbles appeared in the left limb .
A right limb observation was then taken , a few bubbles forming in the left limb while the flow was in progress , these bubbles affecting but slightly , if a , t all , the validity of the observation .
A left limb observation was then taken at the same temperature , and could always be carried on without the appearance of bubbles .
The fact that the results of these two observations are concordant proves that the effect of bubbles during the right limb observation is inappreciable .
As a general rule , duplicate observations\mdash ; one each limb\mdash ; were taken at the same temperature in the case of each liquid , and these observations were made at twelve temperatures , occurring at approximately regular intervals between and the boiling-point of the liquid .
It was found , however , that the variation of the coefficient of viscosity with the temperature was of such a kind that it was needless for the purpose of the research to take observations at temperatures separated by intervaIs smaller than When , therefore , the range of temperature between and the boiling-point of the liquid was but short , fewer than twelve pairs of observations were made , the number being regulated by the interval .
In all cases the time of flow decreases as the temperature rises .
In the case of relatively viscous liquids , at low ratures , single observations only were taken , alternately from the right and left limbs .
When , however , by rise in the temperature the time of flow was reduced to a convenient amount , duplicate observations were again taken .
If during a series of observations on any liquid the latter had to stand overnight in the gliSchrometei ; the cocks were turned so as to prevent all passage from the limbs of the glischrometer , and the apparatus was then disposed as when not in use .
When the cocks were placed as described above , the bottle was in communication with the atmosphere , and , therefore , to prevent access of moisture , the exits of the cocks were joined by a piece of rubber tubing .
If the temperature of the bath was below that of the air , it was advisable to make the levels of the liquid in the two limbs about the same before turning the cocks , otherwise , the temperature rising during the night to that of the atmosphere , the expansion of the air in the ] containing the smaller quantity of liquid might force the liquid from the other limb into the trap , and thus affect the working volume .
CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE DIME : NS10NS 0F THE APPARATUS .
The fundamental measurement which regulated the degree of accuracy aimed at , and therefot.e the dimensions of the apparatus , was that of time .
Since a comparatively large number of liquids was to be examined , and since it was considered to be necessary to make , as a rule , twenty-four observations on the same liquid in order that the law of the change of viscosity with temperature might be ascertained , it was desirable that the times of flow should be as short as possible , consistent with an accuracy sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the research .
Considering the conditions of the problem , we may assume an accuracy of one part in ] 1000 as sufficient ; indeed , when we have regard to the imperfection and uncertainty of the theory , this degree of accuracy is probably the utmost that we can at present legibimately aspire to .
Since the watch was graduated into fifths of a second , and could be read to one-tenth , it followed , on the assumption that one-fifth of a second was the probable error in time of an estimation , and that two observations were to be taken at.each temperature , that the minimum time of an observation , even at the temperature , should never be less than three minutes .
At the lower temperatures , where the efflux times would be greater , the same absolute error in time , other things being equal , would of course have a smaller percentage effect .
On the basis of POISEUILLE'S observations , we first made a trial apparatus , and with such a working volume of liquid as seemed suitable ( determined approximate]y in the manner given below ) , we ascertained the size of capillary needed to give an efflux time of three minutes in the case of water at Observations with benzene , which is less viscous at its boiling-point than water , showed that the same apparatus could still be made to give efflux times within the minimum limit with liquids much less viscous than water at its boiling-point , provided that means were devised for slightly altering the pressure under which the flow took place .
With the knowledge acquired by the use of this model the apparatus described was designed .
As regards the volume of liquid to be taken , it is obvious that , other dimensions being constant , the larger the volume of liquid employed , the smaller is the percentage effect of an error in the time ; on the other hand , the larger the volume the greater becomes the difficulty of keeping the temperature uniform during the flow and of ensuring that the whole of the liquid has taken up the temperature of the bath .
A relatively small vohlme meets the requirements , and it may be made to give sufficiently long times by using long and narrow capillary tubes .
But in the case of a small apparatue the tive amount of liquid which adher to the walls is greater than in a large apparatus of similar shape .
On the assumption of the degree of accuracy above given we are thus able to fix the minimum limit .
Considering all things the best volume to take appeared to be about .
So small a quantity had the further advantage that it enabled observations to be made on liquids which were difficult to obtain in large quantities in a state of sufficient purity .
The shape of the vessel had also to be BETWEEN THE VISCOSITy OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
423 considered .
As regards rapidity of acquiring a constant temperature , ] cylinder is better than a sphere ; in the case of a sphere , however , less liquid adheres to the walls than in that of a cylinder of equal capacity .
Experiments made with water determined the relations of length and breadth of cylinder such that the observations should not be influenced , within the limits of accuracy aimed at , by the liquid left adhering to the walls .
Having fixed the working , the other factors to be considered in maintaining the timt of flow at any temperature within the three minutes limit were the pressure and the dimensions of the capitlary tube .
As already stated the pressure employed was a head of water .
The minimum head should be capable of with an accuracy well within 1 in 1000 .
The scales of the manometer were divided into millimeters and could be easily read by a lens to millim. The minimum pressure head usually employed was about 100 centims. , which was found a convenient height to measure ; hence the error in reading the manometer did not exceed 1 in 5,000 .
The dimensions of the capillary could now be fixed from POISEUILLE'S observations and from the results of the experiments with the model .
Since the time of flow depends on both the length and radius , it is obvious that the same time could be obtained by means of tubes of very different dimensions .
It was advisable , however , to have the length as short as possible consistently with the considerations given below , for then the limbs of the apparatus could be placed near together , and could be kept more readily at the same temperature , and the temperature , indicated by a thermometer placed between them , could be taken as that of each .
The length chosen was about 5 centims. , and with this length the radius had to be about 008 centim. It will be obvious from { he above dimensions that the velocity of flow of liquids which have efflux times near the minimum limit is considerable .
Mean velocity centims. per second .
In connection with this relatively high velocity two questions present themselves : ( 1 ) The formula used in obtaimng the coefficient of viscosity is deduced on the assumption that the motion of the fluid within the is linear , and that the stream does not break up into eddies .
OSBORNE Phil. Trans 1883 and 1886 ) has shown , experimentally , that if the velocity of efflux is greater than that given by the expression , the motion probably t , and therefore the formula will not hold .
In this expression is the viscosity coefficient , and the density of the liquid ; is the radius of the tube .
By taking observations under different pressures : it has been shown , as is described later , that the flow in the apparatus employed by us is linear .
In the case of water the critical velocity at in our apparatus is about 400 centin ) .
a second , the velocity actually observed is about centims. In the case of ether , one of the most mobile of liquids , the critical velocity at , as given by the above , is centims the actual value in the apparatus employed , even under the greatest head , centims. It is evident , therefore , that our apparatus falls well wlthin the requirements necessary for a stream without eddies ( 2 ) On account of the high value for the velocity of efflux the kinetic nergy correction see becomes in some cases tively large .
Thus , the extreme case of ether at , under the highest pressure it is about 4 per cent. ; this is also the valu of the correction in the case of water at , although at it only 16 per cent. On the other hand , the recent investigations by FINKENER , COVETT , and WILBERFORCE have shown that the theoretical basis upon the evaluation of the correction depends is valid , and that the actual determination of the numerical value can be made with a higt ] degree of accuracy .
In any case , the hiometric relations deduced from ients of viscosity thus obtained will in all probability be unaffected by any modifcation of the theory relating to the correction .
For this modification can at most lead to a correction on a correction , because it is obvious that the liquid does carry away kinetic energy , which must be allowed for .
Moreover the legitimate use of the correction will give a- means of testing its validity , as the final results thus obtained can be compared with those observations in which this correction is less important .
Dearth of experimental data has been the main obstacle in deciding the worth of the correction , and if , as has been the custom , its effect were in all cases to be evaded instead of ascertained , the problem would never be brought nearer to solution .
DETERMINATION 0F THE CONSTANTS 0F THE GLISCHROMETER .
Volumes of Liquid Passing through the Capillary Tube.\mdash ; The volumes of liquid contained between the marks and on the left limb , and the marks and on the right limb , were obtained by gauging with water .
Three weights were ascertained\mdash ; ( l ) The weight of water filling the glischronleter up to the lower marks and the weight of watei filling the right limb up to the lower mark , and the left limb up to the upper mark ; and ( 3 ) the weight of water filling the glischrometer up to the upper marks and .
In determining any of these weights a quantity of freshly distilled water was introduced by means of the ffiling apparatus into the clean and dry glischrometer , which had been carefuly weighed .
The quantity of water introduced was adjusted until the levek of liquid in either limb nearly coincided with the desired marks , pains bein taken not to wet the glischrometer above these marks .
To obtain perfect coincidence between the liquid levels and the marks , the glischrometer was transferred to the water-bath , and by slightly alterin the temperature and adjusting the quantity of liquid in either BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMIGAL NATURE .
425 limb , by causing a small quantity to pass through the capillary tube , the temperature was obtained at which the quantity of liquid introduced into the glischrometer exactly filled it up to the marks , all the observations being made through the reading telescopes .
The glischrometer was next withdrawn from the bath , its open ends closed by india-rubber caps , and allowed to take up the temperature of the balance case ; the caps were then removed and the weight ascertained .
Knowing the weight of the glischrometer alone , the weight of water ( reduced to a vacuum ) which at the temperature of the water-bath filled the instrument up to the marks could be ascertained , and on introducing corrections for the expansion of the water and of the glass , the volume at could be readily calculated .
From two concordant sets of observations carried out in this way the mean volumes were found to Right limb , cub. centims. Left limb , , The amount of liquid which in any observation flows through the capillary tnbe is , of course , less than either of the above volumes by the quantity which adheres to the wall of the glischrometer-limb between the upper and lower marks .
To obtain some idea of the amount t , hus adhering , a glass vessel was made of as nearly as possible the same shape and size as a limb of the glischrometer .
This vessel was fixed vertically , filled with water , and the amounts which at ordinary temperatures adhered to the sides when the times taken by the water to flow from the vessel were about the same as that of the actual viscosity observations were determined by weighing .
About .
was found to adhere , and with rise in temperature the amount appeared to diminish .
The error thus introduced in the case of water corresponds to 1 in 1300 , and is within the limits of the accuracy to which we could attain .
Dimensions of the Capillary Tube .
\mdash ; It was expected , and it so happened , that several tubes would be brokeIr before one was successfully sealed inio the glischrometer in the manner already described .
On this account measurements of the mean diameter and length of the capillary were deferred till the sealing in had been accomplished .
Having ascertained , by rough optical easurements , that the section of the bore of a piece of capillary tubing was nearly circular , and that its mean diameter was suitable , before cutting of the required length , the tubing was marked as shown .
BC being the length required , at these points two cuts were made with a sharp file , and on either side of each cut , the same letter , or , was etched on the tube with glass-ink .
The length , BC , was then broken off , carefully protected from dust , and sent to the glass- blower .
Optical measurements made on the section of the pieces AB and CD at their marked ends served , of course , to give the dimensions of the bore at the ends of the length BC .
In each case the length of the major and minor of the elliptical section of the bore was determined .
The method employed was as follows:\mdash ; One of the pieces .
AB or , was fixed vertically in a cork , the marked end uppermost , and projecting a millimeter or so above the cork .
The cork was placed centrally in a circular brass disc , on the circumference of which were four marks apart .
This disc stood on a piece of paper , on which were ruled two lines at right angles to one another , the marks on the disc coinciding with the lines on the paper , and the whole arrangement placed so that the section of the bore of the tube was in the field of the telescope of a horizontal cathetometer , which was graduated to read to 0001 centim. By rotating the cork , the major axis was , by trial , brought parallel to the cross-hair of the telescope , and the minor axis was then measured .
On rotating the disc through by means of the marks on its circumference and the lines on the paper , the major axis could next be ascertained .
Some thirt .
measurements made in this way gave the following mean values observed at Correcting for the expansion of the glass and of the scale of the cathetometer , these numbers give at as values for the mean section of the bore of the tube Semi-major axis , 008603 ; semi-minor axis , 008148 .
If these measurements could have been taken as absolute lenghs in centimeters , no further observations need have been made on the dimensions of the section of the tube .
It is very difficult , however , to obtain an instrument which will give such readings for lengths so small ; we have , therefore , regarded the above as relative measurements , and have obtained the true lengths of the semi-axes by combining the preceding measurements with what we have taken as the true mean radius of the tube as determined by weighing with mercury , in the manner shortly to be described .
On receiving the glischrometer from the maker , the ' first point to decide was whether the bore of the tube had been modified in the process of sealing .
A thread of mercury was introduced into the tube of such a length that it .
could be measured when on either side of the zone of sealing , or when its central portion was in the l.egion of the zone .
Eighteen measurements were taken by the horizontal oathetometer , six when bhe thread was in somewhat rent positions in each of the three regions indicated above .
The following mean values were obtained:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
427 Thread towards end Thread at zone of sealing Thread towards the end centims. 1.5581 , It is evident that no appreciable modification in the dimensions of the bore had been brought about in making the glischrometer .
The measurements indicate also the increase in the section of the towards the end , which was apparent from the previous optical measurements .
Length of the Bore the \mdash ; From the fact that the ends of the tube were somewhat oblique , it was a matter of some difficulty to find the exact length of the bore .
When the glischrometer was laid flat on the table with that side undermost upon which the various marks .
, \amp ; c. , were etched , owin to the obliquity of t , he ends the termination of the bore could not be seen , and even with etahed side uppermost the termination was not quite definite .
Accurate readings were obtained , however , by introducing a thread of mercury into the tube , the Jtity of mercury being so arranged that at either end the thread expanded into a spherical globule .
With the etched side uppermost the points where the bore ended and this expansion took place could be clearly made out .
Measurements were then made with a BROWN'S calibrating instrument of the length of the bore dicated in this way , when the bore was parallel to the line of motion of the reading microscope and when different parts of the ] of the instrument were used .
From twelve measurements the mean observed length at was centims. orrected for the expansion of the brass scale the expansion of glass , at this value became centims. Radius of the Bore of the Tube.\mdash ; The mean radius was determined by weighing a globule of mercury which occupied a known length of the bore of the tube .
After several trials the method adopted was as follows : glischrometer , perfectly clean and dry , was fixed with the capillary tube vertical , the left limb being uppermost , and , of course , horizontal .
Into this limb was next introduced a long piece of drawn-out glass tubing containing a small globule of pure re-distilled mercury .
One end of this piece of { , ubing was placed on the flat end of the capillary , and to the other end was attached a piece of rubber tubing .
By gently compressing the rubber tubing the globule was transferred to the flat end of the capillary .
The drawn-out tube was then removed , and a small india-rubber ball , which could be used as a compressing syringe , was attached to the free end of the left limb .
By gently tapping the glischrometer the globule was brought over the bore of the capillary , and , when in this position , by compressing ball it as slowly driven into the tube .
After a suffi ient length of mercury had been introduced , by quickly laying the glischrometer flat on the table , the excess of mercury contained in the globule was detached into the left limb .
The position of the thread which nearly filled the bore was then made as nearly as possible equidistant from the ends of the capillary .
The length of the } read was then ascertained by the calibrat , ing instrument , eight measurements , as a rule , being made when the thread was parallel to the line of motion of the reading microscope and when either side of the glischrometer was uppermost .
When the length had been accurately measured , by tilting the glischrometer the thread was completely transferred , in the form of a ] , into the right limb .
By judiciously tapping and tilting the ] ischrometer , the globule was next very gradually moved to the free end of the limb , its course being followed with a lens in order to see that no separation into smaller globules took place .
The globule was finally received in a small weighed glass tube which fitted into a slightly wider tube .
The tubes together weighed less than 1 gram .
The weight of the globule , which was but some , was then ascertained .
The weighings were performed on an assay balance by the method of vibrations .
The sensibility of the balance was about 7 ( 1 scale division corresponded to less than The zero point and the sensibility were determined before and after each weighing .
Reduction of the observed weight to a vacuum was unnecessary since mercury was weighed a , gainst platinum .
By the use of the ordinary formula , , on introducing the necessary corrections for the expansion of the brass scale of the calibrating instrument , and for the expansion of glass and change in , the density of mercury , the mean of two concordant determinations carried out as above gave for the mean radius of the capillary at 0082018 centim. If A and are the semi-axes of the ellipbical section of the tube , on taking the value of the ratio , as already obtained by the optical method , and using the above value of as the true mean radius of the tube , the values of A and are found to be centim. centim. At the constants of the glischrometer thus obtained were as under:\mdash ; Volume , right limb cub. centims. Volume , left limb Length of capillary centims. Section ofCapillary Determination of \mdash ; Two sets of thermometers , each consisting of BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
429 instruments , were employed .
The working range of the first instrument extended from to ; that of the second from to .
They were of the Geissler pattern , made of Jena glass , and had been compared with standards at the Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt at Charlottenburg .
Each thermometer was provided with two fixed points and was divided into half-degrees and could be read by the telescope to hundredths .
The position of the two fixed points was ascertained from time to time , and the necessary corrections introduced into the temperature readings .
During the time over which the observations extended there was no appreciable alteration in the capacity of the bulbs .
In considering the influence of thermometric errors it must be remembered that varies for different liquids , and moreover for any one liquid varies greatly with the temperature .
Thus for water the value of this rate of change is about 18 times as large at as it is at .
This example serves to illustrate the general rule that is much larger at low than at high temperatures .
On the other hand , in considering the effect of possible errors due to this circumstance , it must be remembered that it is much easier to keep the temperature constant at low temperatures , and that the accuracy of the final result is increased by the multiplication of thermometer readings at the low temperatures , and that the longer times of flow tend to ensure that the liquid has actually the temperature of the bath in which the whole is immersed .
An error of in observing the temperature may be taken for an average value of the viscosity as corresponding to about 1 parb in 1000 in the value of Determination .
of Pressure.\mdash ; The pressure under which the liquid was driven through the capillary tube was measured by means of a water-manometer .
This consisted of a glass -tube fixed , as shown in fig. 2 , to a stout wooden frame , provided with a plummet and velling screws .
The shorter limb of the manometer was connected with the air-reservoir , and between the limbs was a thermometer to determine the temperature of the water .
Two millimeter scales , each 10 centims. long , were etched on each limb , the middle points of the inner pair and of the outer pair bein equidistant from the middle point of the longer limb .
The two upper scales were read from below upwards , the two under scales from above downwards .
The pressure head was thus the sum of the scale-readings , plus the distance between the zeros of the scales .
The quantity of water was adjusted so that the levels were always on corresponding scales , i.e. , either on both of the inner or on both of the outer scales .
Pressure heads of circa 130 centims. were measured by the outer scales , and those of centims. by the inner .
The inner scales were principally used for such liquids as would , under the higher pressures corresponding to the outer scales , give times of flow under the three minutes limit .
The lengths of the scales were tested and the distance between their zero-points by means of a De La Rive cathetometer .
As the pressure head was to be expressed finally in terms of water at , the , ale of the manometer was corrected to This was done once and for fill ffom the cathetometer readings at the mean atmospheric temperature by applying a correction , which also included a small scale error , to the distance between scales .
The variation in length of the manometer between the mean and extrem temperatures of the laboratory may be neglected .
The true length of the water column on a scale correct at , having the temperature of the atmosphere , could thus be got with ease .
To express this as a head of water at the temperature of advantage was taken of the fact that when the same two scales were used the sure head was almost the same , and thus the correction of the head for change in density of the water depended only on the temperature .
A table was therefore constructed from which by inspection the correction to be applied to the head at any temperature in order to give the height of a column of unit density could be obtained .
In order to find the mean effective pressure , two corrections have to be applied to this head of water .
1 .
Correction for lities in the Atmospheric essure on the Liquid in the JIanometer and Glischrometer.\mdash ; A head of air , assumed to have the mean atmospheric temperature and pressure , and having a height equal to the difference .
between the upper level of liquid in the manometer and the mean level of liquid in the glischrometer , opposes the flow of liquid through the capillary .
Acting in the same direction is head of air having the atmospheric temperature and a pressure equal to that of the atmosphere plus that indicated by the manometer , and having a height equal to the in level of the lower liquid surface of the manometer and the mean liquid level in the glischrometer .
The mean value of this correction for the outer scales was centim. of water at ; for the inner scales the correction was centim. These values are not appreciably cbed by changes in atmospheric density , and were therefore applied once and for all as corrections to the distance between the scales .
2 .
Correction for Change of of Liquid in the Glvschrometer.\mdash ; This correction , which is needed to eliminate the effect of the alteration in the heads of liquid in the two limbs , is by far the more difficult to ascertain .
If the limbs of the glischr.ometer had been identical in all respects , it would have been possible to arrange the working volume of liquid before each flow , so that the pressure produced by the head of liquid acting in unison with the pressure of the air-reservoir during the first half of the time of flow , would have been cancelled by an equal back pressure during the second half .
As it was impossible to obtain the limbs exactly similar , and as on this account the mean head of liquid accelerating the flow differed from that retarding it , it became necessary to estimate the exact value of the effective pressure due to this cause , and provide some means of ascertaining its effect at any temperature with any liquid .
This was rendered possible by use in each flow of a constant working volume of liquid , as already described .
To obtain the effective pressure called into play during the flow from , say , the right limb , it was necessary to take account of the fact that the rate of change of largely influenced by the varying diameter of the limb .
A paper mi\amp ; met BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LfQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
481 scale , 1 millimeter broad , was gummed along the entire length of each limb of the glischrometer .
A quantity of water then introduced into the instrument , which was transferred to the bath , and after a constant state of temperature ( that of the atmosphere ) had been obtained , the working volume of liquid was adjusted .
The position occupied by the mark was ascertained by a cathetometer , the level of liquid in the right limb brought just into contact with the mark , and the position of t , he level in the ] limb read .
As the level fell in the right limb to the mark , readings were taken on the cathetometer and paper scales , of the levels in both limbs , when that in any one limb was leaving a narrow portion of the limb to enter a wide portion , or versed .
FiIlally the cathetometer reading of the mark was observed , the level brought into contact with it , and the position of the corresponding level in the left limb noted .
The positions of corresponding levels are numbered alike , and are roughly indicated in fig. 1 , p. 410 .
The.temperature remaining unaltered , the time was next observed , by fixing the cross hair of the observing telescope on the corresponding reading of the paper scale , which the liquid took to pass from 1 .
to 2 , 2 to 3 , \amp ; c. , under a constant pressure .
It was then possible to plot out a curve having as abscissae the times , and as ordinates the heads ofliquid , \amp ; c. , representing the variation in the head ofliquid with the time throughout the entire flow , the curve between any two consecutive ordinates being assumed to be straight .
The curve consisted , of course , of two portions , one ve , the other below the axis of abscissae .
On dividing the difference in the area enclosed between the upper part of the curve and the axis of abscissae , and that enclosed between the lower part of the curve and the axis of abscissae , by the total time of flow , the mean head of water of density corresponding to the temperature of the experiment which influences the flow is obtained .
In the case of the left limb this was found to be centim. at ; in the case of the right limb it was centim. It is obvious that with the same liquid this height will be subject to a correction for expansion of the glass of the glischrometer , but as the height is small compared with the total pressure , 130 centims. .
or so , the correction may be neglected .
Thus , for any liquid for any temperature - cenbim .
represents the mean head of liquid opposing the flow from the left limb .
In order to put this head into the form of a correction to be applied to the reduced reading of the water manometer , account has to be taken of the densities of the different liquids , and of the variation in density of each liquid with change of temperature .
A table has been constructed for each limb of the glischrometer , from which , knowing , the density of the liquid at , and , the volume which 1 cub. centim. at occupies at the temperature of experiment , it is possible to obtain by inspection the value , in centims. , of water at , corresponding to the mean effective pressure head of any liquid at any temperature .
The tables include densities from to , and volumes ffom1 at , to at the highest point of observation .
Determiruxtion of Time.\mdash ; Two stop watches supplied by DENT were used .
The rate each was determined from time to time by running it for 12 hours against an astronomical clock controlled by hourly signals from the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , and suitable corrections , which were in all cases very slight .
were introduced into the observed times of flow .
PURITY 0F THE LIQUIDS EMPLOYED .
As regards the purity of the liquids investigated , we mainly relied upon their origin and mode of preparation , but we give , whenever possible , as criteria , the boilingpoint and vapour density , and in some cases the density of the liquid employed for the viscosity determinations .
The boiling-point was in almost all cases determined by means of the apparatus seen in fig. 4 , constructed on a principle similar to that already employed by BERTHELOT .
It is made entirely of glass in order to exclude dust and extraneous organic matter , and is so arranged that the mercurial column of the helmometer is jacketed for by far the greater part of its length , and is completely mded by vapour during a ation .
Hence the correction for the emergent column , which is especially unsatisfactory in the case of thermometers of the Geissler pattern , is obviated .
For this reason it is only in the case of a few liquids which were distilled from ordinary flasks that there is any correction for emergent ] involved in the boiling-points as given by us .
The neck of the flask is constricted just below the cork supporting the mometer , so that the cork may never be moistened by the liquid .
The observations on boiling-points are reduced to a standard atmosphere by th6 formulae of CRAFTS ( Ber 20 , 709 ) and of RAMSAY and YOUNG ( ' Phil. Mag 1885 , 515 ) .
In certain cases where the vapour pressures have been studied the corrections have been deduced from the curves of vapour pressure .
In cases in which it was necessal'y to carry out a ffactionation the apparatus was employed ; on account of the large radiating surface and the construction of its neck , the flask was found to be very well adapted to this BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
433The vapour density was ascertained by means of the modified Hofmann apparatus already described by one of us ( THORPE , 'Chem .
Soc. Trans 1880 ) , which allows of the introduction of all the corrections necessary to obtain normal values .
) formula used in the reduction of the ervations is where required vapour density , weight of substance taken , temperature of vapour-jacket , V observed volume , corrected for meniscus and volume of le , height corrected for scale error and reduced to height of mercury in experimental tube corrected for scale error at the temperature of the vapour-jacket , It will be seen that the agreement between the observed and theoretical values is , as a rule , very satisfactory .
DEDUCTION 0F THE WORKING FORMULA .
When a stream of liquid flows through a tube of uniform section , so far as experiments have been able to show , the liquid ecules appear either to move in straight lines parallel to the axis of the tube , i.e. , the motion is linear ; or the stream breaks up into eddies , i.e. , the motion is turbulent .
With a given liquid flowing through a given tube , linear movement corresponds to the lowest velocities , turbulent movement to the highest , and for intermediate values of the velocity , the two kinds of movement may occur alternately .
In order to deduce the value of the viscosity coefficient from the time of flow , it is essential that the movement be linear .
If a horizontal tube of indefinite length and of radius be traversed by a constant current of liquid , pressure falls in passing along the tube in the direction of the movement , and if measurements of pressure be made at any two sections of the tube distant from one another , the difference of pressure observed , if the movement is linear , may be attributed to two causes:\mdash ; 1 .
To friction of the liquid against the walls of the tube ( external friction ) .
2 .
To the viscosity of the liquid ( internal friction ) .
Experiment seems to show , however , that ( 1 ) is inoperative , because it is found that if the tube be wetted by the liquid , the loss of pressure is ) endent of the nature of the material of which the tube made .
It is , therefore , assumed that the layer of liquid in immediate contact with the wall of the tube is stationary , and the XDCCCXCIV .
3 ] experiments of KOCH ( ' Wied .
Ann 14 , 1 ) on the flow of mercury through tubes , and those of COVETT on the flow of water through paraffin tubes , seem to show that even when the tube is not wetted bhe Qame state of things prevails .
* Under the conditions above given , the loss of pressure may thus be wholly attributed to overcoming the viscosity of the liquid .
Assume the velocity of the liquid molecules to be the same at points equidistant from , axis of the tube , and to be zero at the wall of the tube and greatest at the axis , and consider the acting upon an elementary cylinder of liquid situated between the two sections of the tube at which pressure is measured , and having for its axis the axis of the tube .
If be the radius of such an elementary hollow cylinder , its length , measured in the direction of the axis of the tube , its thickness , and the press .
exerted on one end of the cylinder , then the total pressure on this end will On the other end of the cylinder bhe will be : The difference of these two pressures is spent in overcoming viscosity or internal friction , inasmuch as the external pressures which are nol.mal to the direction of movement must be in equilibrium with the weight .
the liquid .
Within the cylinder , the adjacent liquid is moving more freely and tends to the cylinder along with it , whereas on the exterior surface of the adjacent liquid , which is moving more slowly , exerts a retarding effect .
The difference of these two friction-effects corresponds to the loss of pressure .
In order to estimate the magnitude of the friction-effects assumptions have now to be made .
When a liquid is at rest its surface is plane , the force between two contiguous strata of liquid is therefore normal to their surface of separation .
It is only when the liquid moves that this force has a tangential component .
It is thus assumed that the magnitude of this component is a function of the relative velocity of the strata , becoming zero when the relative velocity is zero .
For small velocities , such as those usually attained in capillary tubes , it is further assumed that the tangential component is simply proportional to the relative velocity .
The tangential component is also assumed to be proportional to the area of the surface of contact , and to be independent of the curvature of the surface .
After making these assumptions it may readily be shown that if be the difference in the pressures at two sections of the tube distant from one another , then V , the volume of liquid carried through the tube per unit time , is given by * The question of slipping at a liquid boundary has recently been raised by BASSETT ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 52 , 273 , 1893 ) .
experimental suppol.t to the that slipping really takes ae seems , however , to be wanting .
Besides the resuIts quoted above , and those summarised by ( Ann. do Chimie et de Phys. [ 6 ] , 21 , 490 , 1890 ) , the work of WHETHAM ' Phil. Trana , ' vol. 181 , A. ( 1890 ) , p. 559 ) is comclusive in showing during linear movement the liquid layer in contacl with solid wall is stationary , and from the experiments of COVETT , the same condition appears to even when the movemont is BETWEEN VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND UHEIB CHEMICAL NATURE .
435 V and thus , that It is also possible to obtain the same expression for by integrating the simplest of the fundamental hydrodynamical equations of NAVIER ( ' Mem. Acad. des Sciences , ' vol. 6 , 1822 ) , after making assumptions that hen a permanent current of liquid passes through a tube the velocities of the molecules are parallel to the axis of the tube and zero at the sides ( COVETT , 'Bull .
des Sci. Phys 1888 ) .
If , instead of a tube of in.definite lengbh , and the loss of pressure taking place between two sections of such a tube , we deal with a system consisting of two reservoirs , connected by a tube of finite length , the difference of measured being that between the two reservoirs , then the above formula in general not apply unless suitable corrections be introduced .
This arises from the fact that the observed difference of pressure will , in general , not be entirely spent in overcoming viscosity within the tube , for , besides this cause of loss of pressure , the following have to be taken into account:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) If the liquid flows through the tube with a finite velocity , at the entrance to the tube pressure will be spent in imparting kinetic energy to the liquid .
( 2 .
) Owing to modifications of the stream-lines , especially at the entrance , pressure will be spent to some small extent in overcoming friction outside the tube , in the neighbourhood of its ends .
It is possible to arrange the experimental conditions so that corrections for these disturbing causes may be neglected .
observations made by POISEUILLE , with long and narrow tubes , are in perfect accord with the preceding formula .
In these experiments the velocity of efflux was so small that the kinetic energy correction was inappreciable , and , owing to the length and narrowness of the tubes , the pressure spent in friction outside the tubes was negligible in comparison with thal spent within them .
When , however , the velocity of of :lux is considerable , and the tube is as short as that of our glischrometer , the magnitudes of these disturbing effects have to be ascertained and , if necessary , corrections have to be applied .
( 1 .
) A correction for the kinetic energy imparted to the liquid was first deduced by HAGENBACH ( Pogg .
Ann. , ' 109 , 385 , 1860 ) .
His conclusion may be thus stated .
If , in the formula for an indefinitely long tube , be taken as the length of a finite tube , and the difference of pressure between the reservoirs which the tube connects , then the value of this correction , which has to be applied to the formula , is in which is the density of the liquid .
In a communication ( Ann. de Chim .
Phyb ( 6 ) , 21 , 433 , ls90 ) , which must be regarded as containing the most complete theoretical discussion , which has hitherto peared , of the formula applicable to the case of a finite tube , COVETT finds that 436 .
MESSRS .
T. .
THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE REL .
ATIONS is the true value of the kinetic energy correction .
This value is greater than that given by HAGENBACH in the ratio of to 1 .
Simultaneously with the publication of COUETTE'S paper , GA RTENMEISTER ( Zeit .
filr physik .
Chem 6 , 524 , December , 1890 ) , stated that , from considerations not then published , Professor FINKENER , of Berlin , had arrived at a correction which is identical with that given by COVETT , and , more recently , WILBERFORCE ( ' Phil. Mag 5 , 31 , 407 , 1891 ) has shown that , from HAGENBACH'S assumptions , the value of the correction , as given by COVETT and FINKENER is correct , as there is a slip in the reasoning employed by HAGENBACH .
What may be termed the value of the correction is the one in this paper .
It is shown by COVETT to give much better results than that of HAGENBACH when applied to observations made with two of the shortest tubes used by PoISEUlLLE , in which the velocity of efflux was large and varied considerably .
The formula corrected for kinetic energy is therefore COVETT alone seems to have attempted to obtain a measure of the friction near the ends of the tube .
What actually takes place in this region is not sufficieutly known to of the magnitude of the efl'ect being theoretically deduced .
COVETT concludes , however , that in order to assess its value experimentally , it may be egarded as the same as that of a slight alteration in the length of the tube employed , and the formula for a finite tubc containing the corrections for kinetic energy and the influence of the ends , he gives as Here , is the length which must be taken in a tube indefinitely long and of the same radius as the finite tube in order that when V volumes of liquid flow per unit time through the tube the work spent in friction per unit time for the length will be the same as that dissipated by the influence of the ends .
The magnitude of which takes note of this friction effect he attempted to deduce from such experimental data as were available .
Two sets of observations were made by POISEUILLE with short tubes ( say A and B ) of the same radius but of different .
From observations made with these short tubes at a uniform temperature of , the values of calculated by the fo1mula for an indefinitely long tube vary with the velocity of efflux .
On introducing the CouETTE-FINIIENER correction for kinetic energy , unless in the case of the highest velocities , the value of is constant for either tube , but is different in the case of tube A from that in the tube , and in both cases it differe BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQOIDS ANY ) THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
437 from the true value of , as deduced from POISEUILLE'S observations with long tubes in which the corrections are negligible .
These differences COVETT attributes to the effect of the magnitude L. Let be the constant value obtained for by the above process in the case of tube its value in the case of tube B. On assuming that has the same value for both tubes , secing that the diameter of each tube is the same , from the preceding equation the true value of should be given by This was found to be the case ; the true value of thus deduced identical with that obtained POISEUILLE in the case of long tubes .
On solving for , its value was found to be times the diameter of the tubes .
From a set of experiments made by himself in which the diameter was seven times that of the tubes used by POISEUILLE , COVETT found that was 3 times the diameter .
COVETT : concludes from this evidence that , unless the velocity of efflux be considerable , the value of is constant and about three times the diameter of the tube .
Probably its magnitude becomes somewhat larger the diameter increases .
The conditions of velocity in our observations and the diameter of our tube are similar to those for which the above constant value of seems to hold , and , on applying the correction to our results , after correcting for kinetic energy , they would be diminished by about 1 per cent. We find , however , that without applying this correcti.on for , our observations give results for water identical with those of POISEUILLE .
It need not follow , however , that our results are in opposition to the idea that the source of error denoted by the correction is inoperative .
We are rather inclined to believe that its effect is made negligible in our case by another source of error which acts in the same , and which it seems impossible to allow for .
The radius of our tube was obtained by weighing with mercury , a method which gives low results , due to the film of condensed air which invariably intervenes between the mercury and the glass .
The radius thus obtained will be too small , and seeing that the fourth power of the radius is employed in determining , the percentage error made in observing be magnified .
For this reason , we have neglected the correction for in deducing the value of ; this was indeed the ] course which appeared to be open .
The correction is an experimentally determined quantity , which was introduced in order to make obseryations taken with short tubes coincide with those taken by the long tubes of POISEUILLE ; in our case this coincidence exists without the use of the correction .
The formula used by us to obtain was thus is now the volume of the liquid through the tube in time .
This formula was deduced for a circular tube of radius , but it is almost impossible obtain narrow tubes of perfectly circular section .
The tube employed , as already stated , was elliptical .
In such a case the semi-axes of the ellipse being A and Professor RUCKER was good enough to show that in the above formula should be replaced by which , when , is , of course , Since observations were made at ent temperatures , a correction for expansion of glass , and for in , the density of the liquid , must be introduced into the formula .
If are determined for , if be the temperature of observatiorj , the coefficient of linear expansion of glass between and , and the volume cub. centim. of liquid measured occupies at then the coefficient of viscosity measured at will be given by Neglecting quantities of the second order , This formula may be written and are constants having different values for each limb of the and is , of course , constant for the same liqui be taken with sufficieut accuracy from a table constructed for 5 degrees was obtained from observations on the thermal expansion of. .
the Details of the measurements made in order to determine the constants have adready been described .
Their values are given by ON THE MATHEMATICAL EXPRESSION 0F THE RELATION 0F THE VISCOSITY 0F LTQUIDS To TEMPERATURES .
Our observations on the several liquids were , as already stated , taken at of temperatures varying between and .
In order to obtain viscosity at any desired temperature from these observations , we have used both BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
439 methods .
It may be con venient to discuss here the reasons which led to our adoption of the particular type of algebraical expression which we employ .
Most of the formulae which have hitherto been proposed have been devised from a study of the effect of temperature on the viscosity of water .
POISEUILLE ( loc. cit. ) used an expression of the form O. E. MEYER WIED .
Ann vol. 2 , p. 387 , 1877 ) showed that although this formula gave good results for the temperature range over which PoISEUILL I observations extended , namely to , yet for higher temperatures it was pplicable .
For such temperatures MEYER proposed the hyperbolic expression .
To cover the entire temperature range from to , SLOTTE ( ' WIED .
Ann vol. 14 , p. 13 , 1881 ) suggested the expression which gives numbers in fair agreement with the observed values .
The preceding formulae were all deduced empirically and were applied only to a particular case .
GRAETZ ( ' WIED .
Ann. , ' vol. 34 , p. 25 , 1888 ) , starting from MAXWELL'S formula ( ' Phil. Mag ( 4 ) , vol. 35 , p. 129 ) , ( in which is the modulus of rigidity , and is the time of relaxation , or the time which a stress excited in the fluid takes to fall to of its original value ) , shows that as a first approximation , in which is the critical temperature of the substance expressed on the centigrade scale , and is an unknown temperature below the melting-point .
A is a constant .
In deducing the formula GRAETZ assumes that the viscosity of liquids is mainly due to molecular attractions , and that molecular impacts , which in the of gases are all important , play only a subordinate part in the case of liquids .
It would follow from the formula that at the critical temperature is zero , and at is infinitely great .
A and have , of course , to be determined experimentally for each liquid .
On applying his formula to the results obtained by RELLSTAB and by PRIBRAM and HANDL , in which the temperature range did not exceed , GRAETZ found that in some fifty cases it was satisfactory .
In the case of the fatty alcohols and ethyl ether the formula was inapplicable .
That GRAETZ'S formula appeared to fail in case of ether was no doubt due to the imperfect data by means of which he tested it .
We find that the formula deduced from our observations reproduces them with an average divergence of less than per cent. For many of the other liquids , especially for water and the alcohols , the formula is .
GRAETZ'S formula may be transformed into the expression given by SLOTTE on putting , and In a subsequent communication , ( ' Beibl vol. 16 , p. 182 , 1892 ) reviews the position of the question of viscosity as a function of the temperature , and concludes thab none of the preceding formulae gives satisfactory results with liquids such as the oils where the viscosity alters rapidly with change in temperature .
We had ourselves ascertained that an expression of the type given by POISEUILLE , even when four constants were introduced , iled to reproduce the results for water within the limits of experimental error .
fin ds , however , that an expression of the form gives better results than any of the others .
It differs from POISEUILLE'S formula in containing in the denominator the general exponential term instead of We have employed this last expression given by SLOTTE as being the most satisfactory of those at our disposal .
The formula may be written in the shape In order to determine the values of the constants , two values of , viz. , and are chosen which correspond respectively with the temperatures and ; a third value of , viz. , , is then found from the equation , and the temperature corresponding with this value is found graphically .
and are then deduced from the equations , In co1mection with each substance we give the data used in deducing the formula , and the values of the constants for the expression .
A table is also given which contains the values of the constants when the formula is put into the shape .
The general applicability of SLOTTE'S formula as a means of expressing as a metion of the teznperature is discussed at a later stage .
SCHEME 0F WORK .
With a view of testing the conclusions set out at length in the introduction to this paper , and in particular of tracing the influence of homology , substitution , Chlorides .
Propyl chloride . . . . . . .
Isopropyl ride . . . . .
Isobutyl chloride . . . . .
CH .
Allyl chloride . . . . .
[ I. Methylene chloride ormethane ) Ethylene chloride . . . .
Ethylidene chloride . . . . .
Chloroform ( Trichlormethane ) . . .
Carbon tetrachloride ( Tetrachlormethane ) Carbon dichloride ( Tetrachlorethylene ) Sulphur Compouncls .
Carbon bisulphide Methyl sulphide Ethyl sulphide Thiophen Acetaldehyde Ketones .
Acetaldehyde Dimethyl ketone .
Methy ] ethyl ketone Diethyl ketone Methyl prcpyl ketone .
CO. .
CO. Acids .
Formic acid . . . . . .
Acetic acid acid .
Butyric acid Isobutyric acid H. COOH . .
COOH . .
COOH . .
COOH . .
COOH .
Oxides ( Anhydrides ) .
Acetic anhydride ( Acetyl oxide ) .
Propionic anhydride ( Propionyl oxide ) Ethyl ether O. BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND CHEMICAL NATURE .
443 Benzene .
Toluene ( Methyl benzene ) .
Ethyl benzene .
Ortho-xylene Meta-xylene Para-xylene . . .
Alcohols .
Methyl alcohol Ethyl alchohol Propyl alcohol .
Isopropyl alcohol Butyl alcohol .
Isobutyl alcohol .
Trimethyl carbinol Amyl alcohol ( active ) Amyl alcohol ( inactive ) .
Dimethyl ethyl carbinol Allyl alcohol Of course such a list might be greatly extended , and might be made to comprise other well-defined groups of correlated substances .
It must , however , be remembered that we are limited in our selection by the difficulty of obtaining many substances in a state of sufficient purity to warrant the ur of the labour necessary to determine their viscosity .
Moreover , we were desirous that the upper limit of temperature in our observations should not exceed that which cauld be conveniently ascertained in a glycerin bath : hence the boiling-point should not be higher than or PART II.\mdash ; RESULTS OBTAINED .
WATER .
The viscosity of water has been frequently measured ; indeed , no other liquid has been made the subject of so many determinations of this property .
As the measurements hitherto published extend , for the most part , over a comparatively limited ran ge of temperature , we have considered it desirable to make an additional series of observations from about up to the ordinary boiling-point , partly to gain mors information as to the effect of temperature in altering the viscosity of water , and partly to the validity of our experimental method as well as the accuracy with which the constants of the apparatus had been determined .
The sample of water used was distilled just before its introduction into the glischrometer from a quantity which had been repeatedly distilled in order to free it from dust .
Special pains were taken in the final distillation to obtain a sufficient quantity of air-free as well as dust-free liquid .
The details of the observation are stated below .
On the left-hand side of the-table are given the esults obtained from observations made in the left mb of the glischrometer , i.e. , when the liquid was flowing from the left limb to the right limb .
On the right-hand side are the corresponding results of observations in the right limb .
In the first column is given the mean corrected temperature at which the observation was made ; in the second is the mean effective pressure grms. per square centim. ; under Corr. is given the value in dynes of the correction for the kinetic energy of the liquid flowing through the capillary .
Under , in the last column , is given in dynes per square centim. the value of the viscosity-coefficient after all corrections have been applied .
In calculating the results , the values used for the density and expansion of water have been taken from the mean results of different observers given in ROSETTI'S tables ( ' Annals de Chimie et de Phys. ' ( 4 ) , 17 , 370 ) .
VISCOSITY of Water between and The results of these ions are graphically represented in Plate 8 ; viscosity coefficients being taken as ordinates and temperatures as abscissae .
By taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
445 we obtain the formula The agreement between the Observed and Calculated values is seen in the Table : MORITZ ( ' Pogg .
Ann 70 , 1847 ) from observationamade by the method of COULOMB ( oscillating disc ) , inferred that water had a maximum viscosity in the neighbourhood of .
Other observers , and more especially POISEUILLE and SPRUNG , using the tube method , were unable to detect sny peculiarity in the rate of change of viscosity at temperatures at about the point of maximum density .
We have made a special series of observations to test this question , the results of which are seen in the following table:\mdash ; VISCOSITY of Water between and The resulbs of the viscosity observations between and , by taking may be represented by the formula which gives results in fair accord with the observed values .
The curve representing the change in viscosity was originally plotted on as large a scale as was consistent with the accuracy of the observations , but no indication was given by this curve that any anomalous change occutTed in the viscosity at temperatures between and It must be borne in mind , however , that the anomalous change in the density of water amounts only to about 1 part in 10 , 000 ; hence , since the accuracy attained in these special observations of viscosity probably does not exceed 1 in 5,000 , it may be doubted whether any anomalous change in viscosity of the same order of magnitude as that observed in the case of the density would be detected by any of our present experimental methods .
Measurements of the viscosity of water by the tube method have been made by the following observers:\mdash ; POISEUILLE . . . . . . . .
'Mem .
Save .
Etrang .
, ' 9 , 433 .
GRAHAM .
' Phil. Trans 151 , 373 ( 1861 ) .
LSTAB ' Inftug .
Diss .
Bonn .
' ( 1868 ) .
SPRUNG ' Pogg .
Ann. ' 159 , 1 .
ROSENCRANZ ( comm .
by O. E. ) .
'Wied .
Ann 2 , 387 ( 1877 ) .
GROTRIAN ' Wied .
Ann 8 , 536 ( 1879 ) .
BETWEEN VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
447 STEPHAN 'Wied .
Ann 17 , 680 ( 1882 ) .
WAGNER 'Wied .
Ann 18 , 259 ( 1883 ) .
SLOTTE 'Wied .
Ann 20 , 262 ( 1883 ) .
KoNIG 'Wied .
Ann 25 , 620 ( 1885 ) .
TRAUBE 'Ber 19 , 871 ( 1886 ) .
NOACK 'Wied .
Ann 28 , 666 ( 1886 ) .
In order to compare our results with those of our predecessors , we have made a careful critical examination of certain of these memoirs , and more particularly of those in which the ations extend over a moderate range cf temperature , which are expressed in absolute measure , and which , so far as can be judged , were made with sufficient care .
In all cases where the values are given in gravitation measure they have been reduced to dynes , and when a correction for kinetic energy is necessary , the more accurate values deduced from the expression of COVETT and FINKENER have been substituted for those obtained by the formula of HAGENBACH .
\mdash ; The observations made by POISEUILLE in 1846 are still regarded as the standard data from which the coefficients of viscosity of water for the temperature range over which the experiments extended , virz .
, from to , may be deduced .
POISEUILLE found the number of milligrams of water which could be driven through tubes of different dimensions under definite conditions of teinperature and pressure .
From four sets of observations in tubes of different diameters , O. E. MEYER ( ' Wied .
Ann 2 , 387 ) has calculated the values of the viscosity-coefficients at the diflerent temperatures of observation , and , by graphical interpolation , has found from each set the values at the same temperature apart .
The numbers obtained for the different sets are in close agreement , and from these the mean values of the coefficients are calculated .
On plotting these mean values as ordinates against temperatures as abscissae on the same sheet as that containing the curve for our observations , the agreement between the two series is seen to be remarkably close .
POISEUILLE'S observation at exactly on our curve , that at , which is not quite concordant with that at , is somewhat larger than our observation at that temperature .
From to the observations lie slightly to the right of our curve ; from to they are coincident with it , and the observation at lies slightly to the .
In no single case does the difference between our observations and those of at the same temperature exceed 1 per cent. Comparing observations at intervals apart tenlperatures between and , the mean difference between our and those of PoISEUlLLE is less than per cent , POISEUILLE'S values being , on the average , greater by this amount .
We have examined the values of the coefficients , as calculated by MEYER , from POISEUILLE'S observations , in order to ascertain if they lend any support to the oorrectiou for -effects outside the tube , as given by COVETT .
The coefficients NlLSSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELArlONS determined with one pair of tubes should be on the average about 02 per cent. greater than those determined by the other pair if the correction were operative .
No such difference is apparent ; hence the value of the correction probably falls within the limits of the experimental error .
SPRUNG ( loc. cit. ) gives a series of values for water extending from to which are expressed in gravitation measure .
On introducing the necessary corrections to reduce these values to dynes , we find that from to they are practically identical with ours ; from to they are slightly larger , the deviation increasing as the temperature rises , until at it is about per cent. At and our curve passes between those of SPRUNG and POISEUILLE .
The Covett correction would diminish SPRUNG'S results by about per cent. ROSENCRANZ ( loc. cit. ) made a series cf observations on water , at temperatures between and , with a view of supplementing POISEUILLE'S observations between and On plntting ROSENCRANZ'S values it is at once seen that individual results differ widely from the values deduced from a mean curve .
At the higher temperatures , the mean values are also considerably higher than those obtained by SLOTTE ( .
infra ) and ourselves at these temperatures .
value at is identical with ours at that temperature , but at his result differs by some 10 per cent. from that of SLOTTE and ourselves .
The discrepancy between values and those of later observers is to be ascribed to the imperfections of his experimental method .
There c , an be little doubt , from the construction of his apparatus , that he failed to ascertain the real telnperature of the water flowing through the capillary tube .
SLOTTE ( loc. cit. ) is the only observer who has hitherto attempted to determine the viscosity of water at all temperatures between its ordinary freezing and boiling-points .
His results are expressed in dynes , and we have modified them by substituting the COUETTE-FINKENER values of the kinetic energy correction for those of HAGENBACH .
This makes a difference of about 1 per cent. in the value of at the higher temperatures .
At , SLOTTE'S value for differs by about per cent. from ours ; at higher temperatures , his numbers are about per cent. greater .
The application of the correction for friction effects outside the tube would diminish his values to the extent of about per cent. , , make them about per cent. greater than our own .
TRAUBE loc. gives two sets of values for , determined with two different tubes , at temperatures between and At the same temperature , the bservations of the oue series agree to within 1 per cent. with those of the other .
TRAUBB compares his numbers with those of POISEUILLE ( as given by , SPRUNG , and SLOTTE .
From this comparison values appear to be larger than SLOTTE'S by amounts varying between 2 and 3 per cent. , but agree more closely with those of the other observers .
This agreement , however , is not real , since POISEUILLB and SPRUNG'S values expressed in gravitation measure .
As a matter of fact , the results of all the observers are expressed in dynes , TRAUBE'S numbers differ more BETWEEN THE OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
449 widely from the values afforded by POISEUJLLE and SPRUNG'S observations than they do from those of SLOTTE .
The introduction of the Couette-Finkener correction reduces TRAUBE'S coefficients at the higher temperatures by about 1 per cent. On comparing these corrected values , which irregularly with the temperature , with our own , they are found to be uniformly greater to the extent of from to per cent. These differences cannot be attributed to friction outside the tube ; the effect of this would diminish the values by about per cent. The following table , showing the viscosity of water in dynes at every and , is based upon the observations of POISEUILLE , SPRUNG , SLOTTE , and ourselves .
The values due to POISEUILLE are those calculated by OSCAR MEYER , with the exception of that at , which has been obtained by graphical extrapolation .
SPRUNG'S values are those given in his paper , with the substitution of the CouetteFinkener correction for that of HAGENBACH ; SLOTTE'S numbers have been corrected in like manner , and the values for every obtained graphically .
The values given by ourseives have been obtained in the same way .
TABLE showing the Viscosity of Water in Dynes per square centim. between and * The observation at was used in extrapolating this value .
gives in additiou a at , but as it is considerably greater than it ought to be , having regal.d to the drawn ough the other observations , it has been neglected .
These values are taken from the cnrve connecting ths speoial series of observations made on water between the tomperatures of and MESSRS .
T. E. THORPH } AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS BROMINE .
About 600 grms. of " " pure\ldquo ; bromine were repeatedly shaken with pure oil of vitriol during four days .
It was then separated from the acid and distilled in a refl condenser , made entirely of glass , with pure potassium bromide , for eleven days .
The product was next distilled into a bottle and treated with phosphoric oxide for four days .
On siphoning off the bromine from the phosphoric oxide it was found to boil absolutely constantly at .
Bar .
millims. Corrected.and reduced The observations for viscosity gave : In reducmg the observations we have employed the value the density , and the expression for bhe thermal expansion .
( THORPE , ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1880 , 172 .
) By taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula by means of which the calculated values in the following table are obtained:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR MICAL NATURE .
451 NITROGEN PEROXIDE .
A quantity of this substance , prepared by heating carefully dried lead nitrate , was illed , after having been frozen in a mixture of calcium chloride and ice .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced .p .
Observations on its viscosity gave : The attempt was made to extend the readings up to within a degree or so from the boiling-point of the substance .
The vapour of the nitrogen peroxide , however , acted so rapidly upon the caoutchouc connections at the higher temperatures that further observation was rendered impossible .
In reducing the observations we have employed the value the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion THORPE , .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain which gives results in good reement with those ained by observation .
HYDROCARBONS .
The specimen of normal pentane used by us was supplied by the late Professor SCHORLEMMER .
-distilled from sodium wire , it boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced The observations for viscosity were as follows:\mdash ; 's value for the relative density , ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1884 ) , and the expression BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
453 for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and L. M. JONES , 'Chem .
Soc. Trans 1893 , p. 273 ) , were used in the reduction of the observations .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain which gives results in very close agreement with the observed values .
Isopentane ( Dimethyl-Ethyl-Methane ) .
Obtained from Professor SCHORLEMMBR .
On distillation from sodium wire it boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced b.p. Dr. PERKIN , who examined the magnetic rotation of the same sample , found the same boiling-point .
The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations , PERKIN'S value for the relative density , the expression THORPE for the thermal expansion have been used .
By taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain which gives values in very close agreement with those obtained by observation .
Hexane .
Obtained by SCHOBLEMMER by the action of zinc and dilute hydrochloric acid on secondary hexyl iodide from mannite ; it boiled at Phil. Trans .
Observations with the ] ischrometer g BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHFMICAL NATURL .
455 value ( Annalen , 214 , 160- ) and his expression for the thermal expansion have been used in the reduction of the observations .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain which gives the following values as compared with those obtained by observation:\mdash ; ( Dimethyl-propyl-methane ) .
Obtained from Professor SCHORLEMMER , who found its boiling-point to be Observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have adopted ( which gives ( PERKIN , 'Chem .
Soc. Trans 1884 , 447 ) for the relative density , and the expression THORPE JONES , for the thermal expansion .
Taking calculated ) ( from curve ) we get ; which gives values in close agreement with those obtained by observation:\mdash ; Heptane .
A specimen ofpure normal heptane , from Pinus , was distilled from sodium wire .
It boiled at ( corrected and reduced ) .
Determination of vapour density:\mdash ; 1 .
IL Found 50.19 .
Calculated Observations for viscosity gave : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
457 In the reduction of the observations value for the density and the expression for the thermal expansion already given by one of us ( THORPH ; , .
cit have been employed .
Taking ( calculated ) from curVe ) we obtain which gives numbers in good agreement with the observed values .
CCCXCJV. .
3 4.58 MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS Isohep fane ( Dimethyl-Butyl-Methane ) .
Made for us by Mr. W. A. C. ROGERS , Assoc. R.C.S. , by WURTZ'S reaction .
In its preparation pure inactive amyl alcohol was used ; this was obtained by PASTEUR'S method of fractional crystallization of the barium salts of amyl-sulphuric acid .
The alcohol was converted partly into bromide and partly into iodide , and these were purified by fractional distillation before treatment with ethyl iodide or bromide and sodium .
The sodium , in thin sIices , was gradually added to the mixed halogen compounds in .
flask connected with a reflux condenser .
The reaction was more vigorous in the case of the iodides than in that of the bromides .
The contents of the fla , sk were ] over in an oil-bath and the distillate heated in sealed tubes with sodium to decompose any unaltered compounds .
The product was further purified by JUST'S method ( ' Annalen , ' 220 , 154 ) and finally fractionally distilled in order to separate the diamyl simultaneously formed in the reaction .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced .
p. A determination of vapour density gave : Found .
Calculated The observations for viscosity gave In reducing the observations we have used for the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE , .
cit Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we get BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THETR CHEMICAL NATURE .
459 which .
numbers in fair reement with the results of observation : \mdash ; A sample of normal octane , prepared by Professor SCHORLEMMER from capryl aJcohol , was digested over phosphoric anhydride and distilled from sodium wire , and the fraction boiling between 12 57 and 12 73 , which more than half the total amount , was collected separately and used for the observations .
Bar .
7478 millims. Corrected and reduced Determination of vapour density : Found , Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave : lfESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS In educing the observations the value for the density at , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE , .
cit have been employed .
TakirIg ( calculated ) ) from curve ) we obtain which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; Ethylene ( -Isoamylene ) .
Prepared by Dr. PERKIN from the iodide obtained from dimethyl ethyl On distillation , it boiled between and .
Bar .
758.7 millims. Corrected and reduced Determination of vapour density : Found , Calculated , Observations for viscosity gave : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THLIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
461 In reducing the observations we have employed PERKIN'S value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and JONES , .
cit Taking ( calculated ) from curve ) we obtain which almost exactly reproduces the observed values:\mdash ; Isoprcne ( Pentine ) .
We are indebted to Dr. TILDEN for a liberal supply of this hydrocarbon .
It was obtained from turpentine .
On distillation the greater part boiled between and A determination of vapour density gave : Found , ; Calculated , As the hydrocarbon readily absorbs oxygen , which transforms it into a liquid of consistence and higher boiling-point , it was carefully redistilled in a current of dry carbon dioxide .
The greater portion boiled regularly between and Bar .
758.5 millims. Corrected and reduced The observations for viscosity gave : As isoprene is one of the least viscous of the liquids examined by us , it presented an excellent means of determining whether different velocities of flow in our apparatus led to identical values for the viscosity .
For if with this substance concordant values of were thus obtained , it would be indicated ( 1 ) that , even for the highest velocities we have employed , the character of the motion is still linear ; and ( 2 ) that 1 , mode of correcting for kinetic energy is valid .
The observations made in the neighbourhood of under the diiferent pressures of and centims. show that the values of thus obtained are identical .
* In reducing the observations of viscosity we have enlployed for the density at the value , and for the thermal expansion the expression and JONES , .
cit Taking ( calculated ) from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in very good agreement with the observed values .
* This fact is even more clearly established in the case of ether\mdash ; also a very mobile liquid\mdash ; vrhere two independent samples , measured under similar wide iations of pressure , afforded perfectly concordant values of ( see pp. 519-520 ) .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURF , .
463 Diallyl ( Hexine ) .
Prepared for us by Mr. H. GRIME , Assoc. R.C.S. , by the action of sodium on allyl iodide .
Portions of about 100 grams of the pure iodide were placed with about half their weight of sodium in a flask attached to a reflux condenser .
Two drops of absolute alcohol were added and the contents of the flask maintained at for hours in a water bath , and after standing for from 12 to 24 hours the diallyl was distilled off and subsequently rectified .
The sample was allowed to stand over sodium until required for our observations .
On distillation , it boiled between and , by far the greater portion coming over between and .
This fraction was redistilled and the portion boiling between and was employed for the observa ions .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Determination of vapour density : Found , Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave the following results:\mdash ; In reducing the observations we have adopted the value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( ZANDER .
'Annalen 214 , 148 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in good agreement with those obtained by observation .
IODIDES .
Methyl Iodide .
A quantity of\ldquo ; pure\ldquo ; methyl iodide , after standing for some days over phosphoric oxide , was shaken with " " molecular " " silver and distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
7462 millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , The liquid was quite colourless and remained so throughout the observations .
ions for viscosit , BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND CHEMICAL NATURE .
465 In reducing the observations we have employed the value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( DOBRINER , ' Annalen , ' 243 , 23 ) .
Taking , ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which altnost exactly ex the observed values .
MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. } .
RODGER ON RELATiONS Ethyl Iodide .
A quantity of ethyl iodide , made for us by Mr. A. GREEVES , was dried over calcium chloride , and final .
over phosphoric oxide .
On distilling , it boiled between and , Bar .
7562 millims. Correct , ed and reduced The sample was quite colourless and remained so throughout the observations .
Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations of viscosit .
: In reducing the observations we have used the value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( DOBRINER , .
cit Taking ( calculated ) from curve ) we obtain which gives results in good agreement with the observed values .
Propyl Iodide .
A quantity of this liquid , obtained from KAHLBAubf , after drying over phosphoric oxide , was carefully fractionated , and the greater portion was eventually foun to boil between 10 34 and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , The liquid remained quite colourless during the observations for viscosity .
These gave : MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. ON THE RELATION@ In reducing the observations we have adopted for the relative density , and the expression for the expansion DOBRINER , .
Taking ( calculated ) ( curve ) we obtain which gives results in good agreement with those obtained by observation .
Isopropyl Iodide .
A quantity of isopropyl iodide , obtained from KAHLBAUM , -was placed for some days over phosphoric oxide , and after decantation shaken with ' molecular\ldquo ; silver to remove free iodine .
was then fractionated , when the main portion was found to boil between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced .p .
No valid determination of vapour density could be obtained , or indeed expected , owing to the rapidity with which the iodide changes on exposure to heat and light .
The observa ions for viscosity BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
469 The liquid quite colourless to begin with , , in the course of the observations it became tinted , at the close was of the colour of pale sherry .
In reducing the observations we have employed the value the relative density , and the relative volumes given by F. D. BROWN ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 36 , 245 ) for the thermal expansion .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain which gives values in good agreement with those obtained , observation .
Isobutyl Iodide .
About 500 cub. centims. of isobutyl iodide , boiling and were fractionated .
The greater portion boiled between 12 and 12 5 .
This was shaken with mercury , to remove any free iodine , decanted , and treated with phosphoric oxide , and the portion boiling at and collected separately .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced iodide was re-distilled under diminished pressure before introduced into the glischrometer .
The portion collected came over , without actual boiling , between and under a pressure of from 85 to 141 millims. The observations for viscosity gave : The liquid at the outset was perfectly colourless , but in the course of the work it gradually became yellow and ultimately dark red at the higher temperatures .
It remained , however , transparent to the end .
In reducing the observations , we employed the value for the relative density , and the numbers given by PIERRE and PUCHOT ( ' Ann. de Chim .
et , de Phys 4 , 22 , 318 ) as expressing the thermal expansion .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from we obtain which gives the following calculated values ; \mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITy OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
471 Allyt Iodide .
A quantity of aIIyl iodide , by the method of TOLLENS and HENNINGER ( ' Annalen , ' 156 , 134 ) , which boiled between 10 5 and , was shaken with a small quantity of mercury and distilled ; the greater portion was found to boil between and 10 55 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced .
The distillate was next treated with " " molecular\ldquo ; silver and redistilled under diminished pressure millims. immediately before its introduction into the glischrometer .
The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations , we employed the value for the relative density , and the expression given by NDER ( ' Annalen , '214,146 ) for the thermal expansion .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we the formula which affords the following calculated values:\mdash ; BROMIDES .
Ethyl sample made by the action of bromine and phosphorus on alcohol , after over phosphoric oxide and rectifying , boiled between and .
Bar .
764.9 lJtillims .
Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
473 In reducing the the value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( PIERRE , ' Annals de Chim .
et de Phys 3 , vol. 15 , 369 ) , have been adopted .
Taking ( calculated ) from curve ) we obtain the formula which almost exactly reproduces the observed values .
Propyl Bromide .
A quantity of this substance , obtained from KAHLBAUM , phoric oxide , boiled between and .
Bar .
reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations .
viscosity:\mdash ; In reducing the observations the value for the relative density at , and the expression .
for the thermal expansion ZANDER , Annalen , , have been adopted .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in good agreement with the observed values .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSTTY OF LIQUIDS AND CHEMICAL NATURE .
475 Isopropyl Brom , id .
The observations for viscosity were : over phosphoric oxide , the liquid boiled .
Corrected and reduced Calculated , In reducing the observations , the value 1.3397 for the relative density at , and the expression for the thermal expansion ZANDER , , have been adopted .
Taking ( calculated ) from we obtain the formula which gives values in good agreement with those obtained by observation .
Isobutyl Bromide .
After drying with phosphoric oxide , the liquid boiled between and Bar .
7638 millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND CHEMICAL NATURE .
477 In reducing the observations , the value of for the density at , and the volumes given by PIERRE and PUCHOT Annals de Chim .
et de Phys. ' ( 4 ) , 22 , 314 ) for the thermal expansion , have been made use of .
Taking ( calculated ) from lrve ) we obtain the expression which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; Allyl Brornide .
Prepared by Mr. J. G. SALTMARSH , Assoc. R.C.S. , by method ( ' de la Soc. Chim .
de ) .
After drying and distillation the liquid boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , I. ; II .
; Calculated , The mercury in both cases was found to be slightly attacked by the vapoul of the allyl bromide .
The observations viscosity gave : In reducing the observations the value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion , were used ( ZANDER , 'Annalen , ' 214 , 145 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives values in good agreement with those obtained by observation .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHENICAL NATURE .
479 Ethytene Bromide .
A considerable quantity of ethylene dibromide was dried over phosphoric oxide and frozen .
By repeated eezing and partial liquefaction a fracticn was eventually obtained which melted constantly at .
This was again dried over phosphoric oxide and distilled ; it boiled between .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; Calculated , In reducing the observations the value for the density at , and the expression for the thermal expansion , were adopted ( THORPE , toc .
cit Taking ( calculated ) 12 71 urve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; Propylene Brornide . .
CH Br .
Prepared by KAIILBALTM .
After drying over phosphoric oxide the liquid boiled between 1 and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced b.p. Vapour density : Found .
Calculated Observations for viscosity :\mdash ; In reducing the observations , the value for the relative density at , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( ZANDER , ' Annalen , ' 214 , 175 ) , were adopted .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMfCAL NATURE 481 Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following values:\mdash ; Isobutylene Bromide .
A quantity of this substance , procured from KAHLBAUM , was placed over phosphoric oxide .
for some days and then distilled .
It boiled completely between and 14 60 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Before introducing it into the glischrometer , it was again distilled under reduced pressure , and the portion coming over between the pressures 77 and 91 millims. was employed for the experiments .
The observations for viscosit .
were as follows:\mdash ; In reducing the observations we employed the value given by PERKIN ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans 45 , 525 ) for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and L. M. JONES , .
cit Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain which gives the following calculated values Acetylene Bromide .
( Symmetrical Dibromethylene .
) ( CHBr : CHBr .
) Prepared by Dr. PLIMPTON , to whom our thanks are due for the specimen .
The liquid boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , 9277 .
Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISc OF LIQUIDS AND CHEMICAL NATURE .
483 The published determinations of the density of acetylene bromide are somewhat discordant .
Two independent estimations of the sample employed by us gave and ; mean , which we have adopted in the calculations .
This agrees closely with WEGER'S value , For the thermal expansion we have used WEGER'S expression nalen , Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; Propyl Chloride .
A quantity of the chloride obtained from KAHLBAUM was dried by phosphoric oxide and distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; Calculated , In reducing the observations the value for the relative density , and the expression : for the thermal expansion ( ZANDER , ' Annalen , ' 214 , 157 ) , were used .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain from which the following calculated values obtained:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
485 Isopropyl Chloride .
A sample from KAHLBAUM , after drying over phosphoric oxide , was distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour.density : Found , .
Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations , the value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( ZANDER , ' Annalen , ' 214 , 158 ) , were employed .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATION@ we obtain which gives an extremely good agreement with the observed values:\mdash ; Isobutyl Chloride .
.1 sample from KAHLBAUM , after standing over phosphoric oxide for several days , was distilled , and the fraction boiling between and was used for the experiments .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , I. ; II . .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
487 In reducing the observations , the value for the density at , and the relative volumes at different temperatures given by PIERRE and PUCHOT ( ' Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys. ' ( 4 ) 22 , 310 ) , were employed .
Taking calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the expression which gives values agreeing closely with those obtained by observation .
Atlyl Chloride .
Made by the action of phosphorus trichloride on aHyl alcohol by Mr. J. G. SALTMARSH , A.R.C.S. , to whom we are indebted for the preparation of the other haloid derivatives of allyl employed by us .
The ified product between and .
Bar .
7524 millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity : \mdash ; MESSRS . .
E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS The value for the relative density at , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( ZANDER , 'Annalen , ' vol. 214 , p. 14@ ) , have been employed in the reduction of the observations .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in good agreement with those obtained by observation .
Methylene Chloride .
A quantity of this liquid , obtained from KAHLBAUM , was placed over phosphorio anhydride and distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
769.2 millims. Corrected and reduced BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUTDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
489 Vapour density : .
Calculated , 4237 .
The observations for viscosity were as follows:\mdash ; In reducing the observations we have adopted PERKIN'S value for the relative density , and the expression already given by one of us ( THORPE , .
cit for the thermal expansion .
Taking ( calculated ) from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives values in close agreement with those obtained by observation .
Ethylene Chloride .
specimen of this liquid was dried over phosphoric anhydride boiled between and .
Bar .
7610 millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : , I. ; II . .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; reducing the observations the value for the density at .
and the expression THORPE , for the thermal expansion , have been adopted .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from we obt in the formula ' which gives the following calculated values : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQU .
IDS .
AND CHENIICAL NATURE .
Ethylidene Chloride .
A sample , prepared from paraldehyde free from phosphorus , was fractionated , and the portion boiling between and was employed for the experiments .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced b.p. Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; In reducing the observations the value 1.2049 for the density at , and the expression TflORPE , for the thermal expansion , were used .
( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives values in close agreement with those obtained by observation .
Chloroform .
We are indebted to Mr. DAVID HOWARD for the sample of pure chloroform which has served or our periments .
It was placed over phosphoric oxide for some hours and distilled .
It boiled completely between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations viscosity:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE .
VJSCOSITY OF LIQUIDS THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
493 In reducing the observations we have employed the value for the density at , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE , .
cit Taking ( calculat , ed ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results.in very good agreement with those obtained by observation .
MESSRS .
T. E. THORPHi AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS Carbon chloride .
The sample employed for our observations was obtained by repeatedly agitating a quantity of the rectified liquid with potash solution , decanting , drying over phosphoric oxide , and fractionating .
The liquid was eventually found to boil constantly at .
Bar .
7554 millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; Calculated , In reducing the observations we have adopted the value for the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE , loc. cit Taking ( calculated ) from curve ) we obtain ) expression which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
49.7 Carbon Dichloride .
A large quantity of this liquid was distilled , washed with water and a dilute solution of potassium carbonate , dried over phosphoric anhydride and carefully fractionated .
Eventually , after repeated fract , ionation , a portion was obtained which boiled between 12 73 and 12 85 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; The published determinations of the density of carbon dichloride are very discrepant , owing , doubtless , to the difficulty of obtaining this substance pure .
Two determinations of the sample used by us gave at the values and , the mean of which ( 1.6551 ) has been employed in the reductions .
For the thermal expansion we have adopted PIERRE'S observations ( ' Annals de Chim .
et de Phys. ' ( 3 ) , 33 , 233 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; SULPHUR Carbon Bisulphide .
A sample from Dr. PERKIN , after digestion with phosphoric oxide , was distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
7660 millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL ) The observations for viscosity gave : \mdash ; In reducing the observations we employed for the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE , .
cit Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives numbers in very close accord with those obtained by observation .
Methyl Sulphid A quantity of methyl snlphide was dried over phosphoric oxide and fractionated .
The greater portion was eventually found to boil between and Bar .
7654 millims. Corrected and reduced A determination of vapour density gave : Weight of liquid .
Volume of vapour Temperatul.e Pressure gram .
cub. centim millims. Found , .
Calculated , The vapour density observation was made at \mdash ; the atmospheric temperature , as the substance was completely volatilised under the diminished pressure millims. ) employed in the experiment .
The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations the density was taken as and the thermal expansion as THORPE JONES , .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain formula BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMTCAL NATURE .
499 ' which gives results in excellent agreement with those obtained by observation .
Ethyl Sulphide .
About 200 grams of ethyl sulphide were ried over phosphoric oxide and distilled , By far the greater portion boiled between and .
Bar .
millims Corrected and reduced Vapour density : The observations for viscosity gave : Found , .
Calculated , In reducing the observations we have adopted PIHiRRE'S value for the relative density , and his expression for the thermal expansion ( ' Annals de Chim .
et de Phys ( 8 ) , 83 , 215 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) 003663 ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in good agreement with the values obtained by Thiophen .
A quantity of thiophen , after drying , was carefully fractionated , and the portion boiling between and was collected and employed for the observations .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour dens Found , .
Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave : BETWEEN VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
501 In reducing the observations we have employed SCHIFF'S values for the thermal expansion , and the rmmber for the relative density .
Taking ( calculated ) from curve ) we obtain the mula which gives results in good agreement with those obtained by observation .
Dimethyl Ketone ( Acetone ) .
A sample lent to us by Dr. PERKIN was distiIled : all came ov .
It was redistilled : the portion collected for the and 5 ( emergent c , olumn ) .
rected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have adopted the value for the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE , .
cit Taking ( calculated ) ( ffom curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in very good agreement with those obtained by observation .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL ORE .
503 Methyt Ethyl Ketone .
A quantity of this ketone , obtained from Professor JAPP , and prepared by KAHLBAUM from ethylic methaceto-acetate by BoKING'S method ( ' Annalen , ' 204 , 17 ) was dried by means of anhydrous copper and submitted to fractional distilation .
Eventually a portion was obtained which boiled between and Bar .
millims. The quantity of the material was insufficient to allow of further treatment .
A vapour density determination gave .
Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have adopted the value for the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and L. M. JONES , Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we dbtain the formula which gives values in good agreement with those obtained by observation .
Diethyl Ketone .
A sample of this compound , lent to us by Dr. JAPP , and prepared by KAHLBAUM from barium propionate by KRAFFT'S method , was carefully fi.actionated , and eventually a portion was obtained which boiled between and Bar .
illims .
Corrected and reduced A determination of its vapour density gave .
Calculated , The viscosity observations gave : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LTQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL ] ] .
505 In reducing the observations we have adopted the value for the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and L. M. JONES , cit Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; CCCXCIV .
Methyl Propyl Ketone .
A sample lent to us by Dr. JAPP was placed over anhydrous copper sulphate and submitted to fractional distillation , and eventually a portion was obtained boiling between and 10 55 .
Bar .
minims .
Corrected and reduced Determi-nations of its vapour density gave ( 1 ) .
Calculated Observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have adopted PERKIN'S value which gives for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and L. M. , loc. cit Taking ( calcu]ated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMIOAL NATURE .
507 Acetaldehyde .
A considerable quantity of aldehyde , obtained from KAHLBAUM , was distilled from a water-bath , the temperature of which was not allowed to rise above , and the fraction distilling between and was collected separately .
This portion was then shaken for a few minutes with calcium chloride ( comp .
PEBXrN , ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1884 , p. 475 ) , filtered into a stoppered bottle , and placed in ice for about four hours to promote the separation of any metaldehyde , The liquid was again distilled , and the portion boiling between and was collected .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced A determination of the vapour density of this fraction gave ; calculated The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations , we have employed the value for the relative density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( KOPP , 'Jahresbericht , ' 1847-48 , p. 66 ) .
a Taking culated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives numbers in almost exact agreement with the observed values .
ACIDS .
Formic Acid .
H.COOH .
We are indebted to Dr. PERKIN for the sample of formic acid which has served for our observations .
It was a portion of that employed him in determining the magnetic rotary polarization of this substance .
It boiled at ( corrected ) .
The observations for viscosity gave : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
509 In reducing the observations , ZANDER'S expression ( ' Annalen , : 224 , 59 , 1884 ) for the thermal expansion , was employed : this affords values closely concordant with those given by that of KOPP : for the relative density we have adopted the mean of the concordant observations of LANDOLT and ZANDER , viz. , Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives calculated values which agree closely with those obtained by observation .
Acetic Acid .
COOH .
A quantity of ' pure ' glacial acetic acid was cooled below its fi.eezing point , and the liquid portion drained from the crystals .
These were melted , again frozen , and drained as before , the process being repeated four times .
The portion was then melted and placed over anhydrous copper sulphate for several days .
The clear liquid was decanted and distilled .
It boiled at .
Bar .
miJlims .
Corrected and reduced As is well known the vapour density of acetic acid is anomalous .
The observations of RAMSAY and YOUNG , however , render it possible to calculate the vapour density of the pure acid at different temperatures and pres ures .
We accordingly made a determination of the vapour density of the acid employed by us with the following results :\mdash ; Weight ofliquid , .
Volume of vapour , cub. centims. Temperature , .
Pressure , millims. Found , .
Calculated ( R. and The observations for viscosity gave : For the relative density we have adopted the mean of the closely concordant values of ROSCOE , ) , OUDENANS , and ZANDER , viz. , , and for the thermal expansion the mean of the formulae given by KOPP and ZANDER : Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives values which agree closely with those obtained by observation at temperatures above BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
511 Propionic Acid .
COOH .
A sanlple of the pure acid received from ] .
PERKIN was boiling between 14 52 and collected separ ( emergent column ) .
Bar .
millims. orrected and red The observations for viscosity gave : After the observations were finished it was discovered that a minute quantity of the mercury of the thermometer had distilled up into the vacuous space .
It was considered desirable , therefore , to repeat such of the observations as might possibly have been affected by this circumstance .
The repetition of all above 10 showed , however , that the distillation which had occurred was too insignificant in amount to influence the results .
In all subsequent observations over 10 the thermometer was inverted and replaced in the bath just before the observation of temperature .
Observations of the thermal expansion of propionic acid have been made by KOPP Annalen , , by PIERRE and PUCHOT ( ' de Chimie et de Phys 4 , 28 , 71 ) , and by ZANDER ( ' Annalen , ' 224 , 91 ) .
As the results are very concordant , the mean value of the different expressions has been employed .
For the relative density we have adopted , the mean of the values given KOPP , LANDOLT , LINNEMANN , and ZANDER .
Taking ( lculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LTQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL .
513 ButyricA -- .
COOH .
From Dr. PERKIN .
It was found to boil at ( emergent column ) .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced The observations for viscosity gave : The relative density of butyric acid has been frequently determined , and there seems little reason to prefer any one value to the exclusion of the others from among the concordant observations of DELFTS , PIERRE , , LANDOLT , LINNEMANN , and BRUHL .
We have , therefore , adopted the mean of the different results , namely , , which is almost identical with the observations of LANDOLT and BRUHL .
For the thermal expansion we have taken the means of the very concordant observations of PIERRE ( ' Annals de Chimie et de Phys. , ' ( 3 ) , 31 , 127 ) , and ( ' Annalen , ' 284 , p. 91 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) ' 87 , we obtain the formula ' which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; DCCOXCIV .
Isobutyric Acid .
COOH .
From Dr. PERKIN .
On distillation the sample boiled between and ( emergent c.olumn ) .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and .
A second observation of the boiling-point in another apparatus .
as the boiling-point limits 15 4 and 15 3 .
millims. Corrected and reduced The observations for viscosity gave : The repetition of the observations from about upwards was made in BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUI .
DS AND THEIR MlCAL NATURE .
515 quence of a minute quantity of the mercury of the thermometer having distilled into the vacuous space ( comp .
p. 511 ) .
In the second series the thermometer was inverted and replaced in position just before the observation of temperature and flow .
The.second set of observations lie exactly on the curve which expresses the first series ; no sensible error in the determination of the temperature had therefore been made .
In reducing the observations we have employed for the thermal expansion the mean values ained from the concordant results of PIERRE and PUCHOT ( ' Annals de Chim .
et de Phys ( 4 ) 28 , 366 ) , and of ZANDER ( ' Annalen , ' 224 , 91 ) .
For the relative density we have adopted , the mean of the closely agreeing values given by PIERRE and PUCHOT , LINNEMANN , BRUHL , and MAIIKOWNIKOFF .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; MESSRS . .
THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS OXIDES .
Acetic Anhydride .
arge quantity of this liquid was shaken for a few minutes with phosphoric , oxide distilled .
It boiled between 13 50 and 13 77 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced .p .
Observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have employed KOPP'S value for the relative density , and his expression for the thermal expansion ( ' Annalen , ' 94 , 290 Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula woiclx gives results in good agreement with the observed values .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
Propionic Anhydride .
A quantity of this liquid , obtained from KAHLBAUM , was shaken with a small quantity of phosphoric oxide for a few minutes , decanted and submitted to fractional distillation .
The portion employed for the observations boiled between 16 30 and 16 25 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have employed the value for the density , and the expression for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and L. M. JONES , loc. cit Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; Ethyl Ether .
Two independent preparations of ethyl ether have been made use of in our observations on the viscosity of this substance .
The first , made specially for us by Professor DUNSTAN , after standing in contact with sodium wire for a day was distilled .
It boiled completely between ] ; on redistillation the greater portion boiled between and .
Bar .
764 millims. Corrected and reduced yapour density : Found , .
Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
519 In reducing the observations we have employed KOPP'S value for the relative density , and his expression for the thermal expansion ( ' Pogg .
Ann 72 , 1 and 223 ) .
We are indebted for the second sample of ether to Dr. PERKIN .
After standing for a night over sodium wire it was distilled ; it boiled completely between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced slight difference in the boiling point of the two samples may be due to superheating .
It is noteworthy that TAMMAN Wied .
and BECKMANN Zeits .
physik .
Chemie , , independently , found very great difficulty in obtaining ether of a constant vapour pressure .
A determination of the vapour density of Dr. PERKIN'S sample gave Calculated , 3700 .
The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have empIoyed the same values fur the density and thermal expansion as in the reduction of the first series .
Taking mean values from the two series of observations we get ( calculated ) ( from curve ) from which we obtain the formula which reproduces the observed values in both cases with great accuracy:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHFMICAL NATURE .
521 AROXATIC HYDROCARBONS .
Ben , zene .
A sample of carefully purified and thiophen-free benzene which had stood ov er sodium wire for many months , was .
It boiled comple ely between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Determination of vapour density :\mdash ; Found , The observations for viscosity gave : Calculated , Observations on the thermal expansion of benzene have been made by KOPP ( ' Jahr 1847-48 , 66 ) ; VINE ( ' Ann. de Chimie et de Phys 4 , 11 , 465 , 1867 ) ; ADRIENZ ( ' Ber 1873 , 441 ) ; PISATI and PATEBNO ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans. ' ( 2 ) , 12 , 686 ) ; and LACHOWICZ .
As KOPP'S values approximate very closely to the mean of all the other observations , they have been made use of in the reduction .
His expression for the thermal expansion is We have also employed his value for the density .
By taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in close agreement with the observed values .
Toluene ( Methyl benzene ) .
We are indebted to Dr. PERKIN for the sample of this hydrocarbon which has served for our experiments .
Ib was prepared from pure sodium parasulphonate .
Placed over sodium wire and distilled , it boiled between and 11 40 .
Bar .
lims .
Corrected and reduced b.p. Determinations of its vapour density gave : Found , I. ; IL .
Calculated , The observations with the glischrometer gave : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITy OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
.523 In reducing the observations , PERKIN'S value for the relative density ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans , ' .
cit and LOUGUININE'S values ( ' Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys 4 , 11 , 468 ) for the thermal expansion were adopted .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives results in good agreement with the obselved values:\mdash ; Ethyl Benzene .
A quantity of this hydrocarbon , obtained from KALHBAUM , was placed over sodium for a couple of days and then submitted to careful fractionation .
The portion boiling between and was re-distilled , and the fraction boiling between and was colIected separately and digested with sodium wire for four days and again distilled .
The greater portion boiled and 13 27 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Determination of its vapour density : Found , The observations for viscosity gave : Calculated , MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS In reducing the observations , we have employed WEGER'S expression for the thermal expansion\mdash ; and the relative density ( ' Annalen , ' 221 , 67 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula , by means of which the calculated values given belo are obtained .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
525 Ortho-xylene ( Ortho-dimethyl benzene ) .
: 2 .
Two specimens of this hydrocarbon were employed in the determination of its viscosity .
The .
first was prepared for us by Dr. G. T. MooDY from WITTE'S " " pure\ldquo ; ortho-xylene .
The hydrocarbon was sulphonated with ordinary sulphuric acid , and the product converted into the barium salt , and ultimately into the sodium salt , which was then repeatedly crystallised from water .
The pure sodium salt , which forms large , characteristic ates , was hydrolysed by mixing it with sulphuric acid and injecting steam into the solution .
The hydrocarbon thus obtained was dried over sodium and distille .
, the first and last portions of the distiJlate being collected apart .
The middle fraction was placed over sodium wire for about a fortnight and again distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced The determination of the boiling-point was subsequently repeated .
The hydrocarbon was found to boil at 14 35 under a barometric pressure of millims. Corrected and reduced Observation of vapour density:\mdash ; Found , The observations for viscosity gave the following results:\mdash ; In reducing the observations , PINETTE'S expression for the thermal expansion , and his value 10 the relative density , , have been employed ( ' Annalen , ' 243 , 50 , 1884 ) .
As the boiling-point of the ortho-xylene employed is nearly higher than that usually assigned to this hydrocarbon , Dr. was good enough to prepare a second sample from the sulpho-chloride .
This was reconverted into the acid by boiling with alcohol , and the acid was afterwards hydrolised .
The hydro- carbon was dried over sodium wire and distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced b.p. It will be observed that the boiling-point of the second sample is almost identical with thab of the first .
An observation of its va.pour density gave : Found , .
Ca]culated , Observations on the viscosity of the second sample were made with the following results : \mdash ; In reducing the observations the same values for the relative density and thermal expansion were used as in the first series .
On plotting the results , the observations on the second sample are seen to be practically identical with those of the first .
For temperatures up to of the second are about per cent. greater than those of the first ; from this point up to about 10 the curves are absolutely coincident ; from up to the boiling-point the observations of the second series are about per cent. less than those of the first .
The case is interesting as showing the practical identity of the two samples , and as proving that a substance prepared in totally different ways may be obtainedin condition so closely approximating to absolute purity that the degree to which may fall short of this ideal state is without appreciable effect on the property we measuring .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
527 Taking ( calcuhted ) ( from curve ) obtain the expression which gives values in good agreeinent with those obtained by observation .
Meta-xylene ( Meta-dimethyl benzene ) .
: 3 .
We are .
indebted to Dr. MooDY for a liberal supply of this hydrocarbon .
It was prepared from WIT pure\ldquo ; meta-xylene .
The hydrocarbon was sulphonated with ordinary sulphuric acid and the resulting sulphonic acid was recrystallised nine or ten times from a mixture of two parts of ordinary sulphuric acid and one part of water .
The pure meta-acid was converted into the sodium salt which was thrice recrystallised .
The pure sodium salt was reconverted into the hydrocarbon by hydrolysis with sulphuric acid and steam , dried over sodium and distilled .
On redistillation , after standing .
some time over sodium wire , the meta-xylene boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced .p .
Determinations of its vapour density gave : Found I. ; II .
Calculated , MESSRS .
T. E. ] AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATION8 The observations for viscosity gave : In reducing the observations we have employed PINETTE'S value for the relative density , , and his expression for the thermal expansion ( ' Annalen , ' 243 , 51 , 1884 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula by means of which the calculated values given below are obtained .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
529 -xylene ( Para-dimeth yl benzene ) .
: 4 .
We are indebted to Dr. MoODY for a sample of this hydrocarbon .
It was prepared from KAHLBAUM'S " " pure\ldquo ; para-xylene ; this gave on sulphonation a clean sodium salt , which was nearly , if not quite , pure .
The sodium salt was re-crystallised twice , and then hydrolysed .
The regenerated hydrocarbon was dried and placed in a freezing mixture .
By constant stirring the solid hydrocarbon was obtained in small crystals .
When about half the liquid had solidified , the crystals were separated by a filter-pump and allowed to drain for over an hour at the ordinary temperature ; the crystals were then melted and distilled over sodium .
On redistillation , after standing over sodium wire for several hours , the hydrocarbon boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Determination of vapour density:\mdash ; Found , .
Calculated , An attempt was made to take the first viscosity observation at , but although the para.xylene was liquid to begin with , it solidified shortly after starting the experiment .
The crystals began to soften at about , and were completely melted at After complete liquefaction the temperature was allowed to fall to about , and the first observation was then made .
In reducing the observations , PINETTE'S expression for the thermal expansion , and his value for the relative density , , have been employed ( ' Annalen , ' 243 , 51 , 1884 ) .
Taking ( cficulated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula from which the calculated values given below are obtained:\mdash ; ALCOHOLS .
Methyl Alcohol .
A quantity of acetone-free methyl alcohol ( from KAHLBAUN ) was converted into the oxalate by DITTMAR and FAWSITT'S process ( ' Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edin 33 , 2 , 510 ) .
After standing for two months over dry potassium carbonate , the product was cohobated with quicklime , and allowed to remain in contact with fresh lime for a week .
This process was repeated , and the resulting liquid put over anhydrous copper sulphate for ten days ; the alcohol , which was coloured bluish-green from the presenoe of a small quantity of dissolved ( FORCRAND , 'Compt .
Rend 102 , 551 ) , was siphoned off and distilled .
It boiled between and : ( emergent column ) .
Bar .
, millims. Corrected and reducod Vapour density:\mdash ; Found , .
Calculated , The observations viscosity were as follows:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR MICAL NATURE .
531 In reducing the observations KOPP'S value for the relative density , , and his expression for the thermal expansion were employed .
There is , however , reason to believe that the methyl alcohol employed by KOPP was not wholly free from water , in spite of the care employed in its preparation .
We , therefore , recalculated the value of the kinetic energy correction by means of the more recent determinations of the relative densiby and expansion of methyl alcohol given by DITTMAR and FAWSITT , but that the coefficients were not affected within the limits of experimental error .
Taking calculated ) from we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; MESSRS . .
E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS Ethyl Alcohol .
A quantity of " " pure\ldquo ; absolute alcohol was boiled with quicklime for eight hours in a reflux condenser , and decanted on to fresh lime , over which it was allowed to starJd for about a month , again decanted and distilled from freshly burnt lime .
It constantly at .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , Calculated , observations for viscosity gave : BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
533 The observations were reduced by means of KOPP'S values for the density , and his expression for the thermal expansion ( ' Jahresbericht , ' 1847 , 66 ) .
Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following calculated values:\mdash ; Propyl Alcohol .
Received from Dr. PERKIN .
After standing over anhydrous copper sulphate for some time it was distilled .
It boiled between and ( emergent column ) .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Determinations of vapour density :\mdash ; Found , ; II .
, .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; Observations on the relative density and thermal expansion of propyl alcohol have been made by PIERRE and PUCHOT ( ' Annals de Chim .
et de Phys ( 4 ) , 22 , 276 ) , and by ZANDER ( 'Annalen , ' 214 , 154 ) .
The observations are not in very good agreement .
As there seemed to be doubt as to the individuality of the specimen of alcohol employed by PIERRE and PUCHOT , the numbers given by ZANDER have been adopted , viz. :\mdash ; We have also employed his value for the relative density .
happens to be the mean of the observations of BRUflL and LINNEMANN .
Taking calcula ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives the following observed values:\mdash ; The observations have been reduced by means of ZANDER'S values the relative density at , and his expression for the thermal expansion , ( ' Annalen , ' 214 , 154 ) .
Two formulae are required to reproduce the values with sufficient accuracy .
The first extends from to , the second from to They are respectively as follows : .
, .
The agreement between observed and calculated values is seen in the following table : Butyl Alcohol .
A quantity of the alcohol obtained from KAHLBAUM was dehydrated by caustio baryta .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
7646 millims. Coxrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , I. , ; II .
, .
Calculated , As the alcohol is rather viscous at low temperatures , the time of flow at being nearly 50 minutes , single observations only were made up to are as follows:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
537 In the reduction of the observations we have employed ZANDER'S value , , for the density at , and his expression for the thermal expansion ( ' Annalen , ' 224 , 80 ) .
Two formulae are required to reproduce the values with sufficient accuracy .
The first extends from to , the second from to They are respectively as folJows : .
, .
The agreement between the observed and calculated values is seen in the following table : \mdash ; Isobutyl Alcohot .
A sample received from Dr. PERKIN was placed over anhydrous copper sulphate for a month , decanted , and distilled .
It boiled between and 10 42 ( therm. 567 ) .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , As the liquid is very viscous at low temperatures , the time of flow at being more than 77 minutes , only single observations were made in this series .
The sample was redistilled nearly two years after the first series of observations , and a second series taken .
The alcohol was now found to boil between and ( therm. 1518 ) .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced This result agrees .
almost exactly with that first obtained .
The following observations were made in glischrometer:\mdash ; In reducing the observations the density and values for the relative volumes different temperatures given by PIERRE and PUCHOT Ann. de Chim .
et de Phya , ( 4 ) , 22 , 306 ) were employed .
On plotting the series of observations they are found to lie on exactly same curve .
This agreement shows ( 1 ) that the sample was uniform in BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEM[CAL NATURL .
539 and that it had suffered no change during the two years ; and ( 2 ) that the dimensions of the glischrometer had experienced no appreciable alteration during the same period , although it must have been washed and dried , heated and cooled , many hundreds of times during the interval .
Three formulae of the SLOTTE type are required to reproduce the values with even approximate accuracy .
The first extends from to , the second from to the third from to They are respectively as follows:\mdash ; I. , II .
, III .
The agreement between the observed and calculated values is seen in the following table : Trimethyl Carbinol .
A sample of this substance l.eceived from Dr. PERKIN , which had been distilled with baryta and kept in a fused state over anhydrous copper sulphate for six to weeks , was distilled .
It boiled between and .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Determinations of its vapour density showed that the sample was probably still imperfectly dehydrated .
I. II .
Weight of liquid 0 .
gIms .
grms. Volume of vapour cub. centims. cub. centims. Temperature .
Pressure millims. millims. Found , I. ; II . .
Calculated Unfortunately the quantity of the substance at our disposal was insufficient to enable us to submit it to further dehydration .
The observations for viscosity were as follows:\mdash ; As the time of flow , especially at the low temperatures , was so considerable ( at it was nearly 57 minutes ) , only single observations were made up to In reducing the observations , the relative density , given by PERKIN ( ' Chem. Soo .
Trans 45 , 469 ) , which gives , and the expression THORPE JONES , for the thermal expansion , have been employed .
Two are required to reproduce the values with sufficient accuracy .
The first extends from to , and the second from to Thev are , respectively , as follows:\mdash ; .
, .
The agreement between the observed and calculated values is seen in the following table : .
542 MESSRS .
T. .
THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS The time of flow of this alcohol at low temperatures is so great\mdash ; at it was over 106 minutes\mdash ; that only single observations were taken up to 11 78 .
In reducing the observations we employed PERKIN'S value , for the relative density , which gives , and for the thermal expansion the expression ( THORPE and JONES , .
cit Three formulae are required to reproduce the values with sufficient accuracy .
The first extends from to , the second from to , the third from to They are respectively as follows:\mdash ; I. , II .
, IIL The agreement between the observed and calculated values is seen in the following tables :\mdash ; Amyl Alcohol ( optically inactive rfwo samples of optically inactive amyl Cohol have served for our For the first we are indebted to Dr. PERKIN .
It was a portion of that prepared by Professor PEDDLER by PASTEUR'S method of fractional cryst , allisation from the various sulphamylates ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans vol. 6 , p. 74 , 1868 ) .
When tested in a LAUREUT'S polarimeter with monochromatic sodium light it was found to be quite inactive .
It was placed over anhydrous copper sulphate for three weeks , and distilled .
It boiled between and 13 35 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and redued BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS -AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
Vapour density:\mdash ; Found , I. ; IL .
Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave : On account of the length of time of flow ( about 84 minutes at ) only single observations were made except at about , when duplicate readings were taken in both limbs .
In reducing the observations we have used the value for the density , and the expresslon for the thermal expansion ( THORPE and JONES , .
cit The second sample of inactive amyl alcohol was prepared for us by .
GREEVES in the laboratory of the Royal College of Science , by PASTEUR'S method .
When examined in the Soleil-Duboscq Polarimeter with a sodium flame , not the least indication of rotation was apparent .
It was carefully dehydrated by copper sulphate and ] , when it was found to boil almost constantly between and .
Bar .
7620 millims. .
and red .
Vapour density : Found , Calculated , The observations for viscosity gave:\mdash ; .544 MESSRS .
T. E. ] AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATION8 In leducing the observations the same values for the density and thermal expansion were used as in the case of the first sample .
The results of the two series of observations show that the samples were not absolutely identical in character , although the general form of the curves is almost the same .
From up to about the first sample is more viscous than the other .
At the difference amounts to about per cent. , this gradually diminishes up to about when the curves cross ; above the first sample is slightly less viscous than the other , the extreme difference being about 1 per cent. at the boiling point .
These differences may possibl .
be owing bo the presence of a minute quantity of water in the first sample , which seemed moreover to be indicated by its lower vapour density and boiling-point .
We prefer , therefore , to adopt the values afforded by the second sample as expressing the true viscosity of the inactive alcohol prepared by PASTEUR'S method .
Three formulae , given by the observations on the second sample , are required to reproduce the values with sufficient accuracy .
The first extends from to , the second from to , t , he third from to .
They are , respectively , follows:\mdash ; I. , II .
, II1 .
The agreement between the obse , rved and calculated values is seen in the tables :\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
545 Dimethyl Ethyl Carbinol .
Received from Dr. PERKIN .
After standing over dehydrated copper sulphate for five months it was found to boil between and 10 52 .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced Two determinations of its vapour density gave the following results:\mdash ; Weight of liquid Volume of vapour Temperature Pressure Found , I. ; II .
I. II .
75 . .
74 .
millims. millims. Calculated , In spite of the prolonged treatment with copper sulphate the liquid was evidently not completely The observations for viscosity gave the following results:\mdash ; NPCCCXCIV .
In reducing the observations we have taken PERKIN'S value for the relative density ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans 45 , 471 ) .
which gives and the expression THORPE JONES , for the thermal expansion .
Three formulae are required to reproduce the values with approximate accuracy .
The first extends from to , the second from to , the third from to They are respectively as follows:\mdash ; I. ' II .
, III .
The agreement between the observed and calculated values is seen in the following table :\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF AND THEIR CHEMJCAL NATURE .
547 Allyt Alcohol .
A portion of a sample received from Dr. PERKIN .
It was carefully dehydrated by lime .
On distillation it boiled between and ( emergent column ) .
Bar .
millims. Corrected and reduced .
This number agrees closely with that previously found for this substance by one of us , viz. , ( THORPp , ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1880 , 210 ) .
Vapour density : Found , .
Calculated , Observations for viscosity:\mdash ; The observations have been reduced by means of the value and the expression ( THORPE , loc. cit Taking ( calculated ) ( from curve ) we obtain the formula which gives numbers in good agreement with the observed values .
MESSRS .
T. ] .
THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE PART III.\mdash ; DISCUSSION OF RESULTS .
INTRODUCTION .
Before proceeding to the discussion of the results obtained , it may be advisable to indicate briefly the factors upon which the magnitude of the viscosity may probably depend .
Unlike several of the properties which have been investigated from a physicochemical point of view , viscosity depends essentia'lly on the forces in play between molecules\mdash ; it is the result of extra-molecular actions .
It has long been conjectured that the fundamental molecules of some liquids , at least , are really congeries of gaseous molecules .
NAUMANN , from the boiling-points of isomers ; RAMSAY and YOUNG from the variations , of saturated vapour densities ; GUYE and YOUNG from critical densities , and others , have given evidence in favour of this conclusion .
The most significant contribution to the subject , was made as long ago as 1886 , by oTYos ( ' Wied .
Ann 27 , 452 ) .
He was able to show that for many liquids the rate of change of molecular surface energy with temperature was independent of the temperature and of the chemical nature of the liquids ; whereas for other liquids , like water , the fatty alcohols and the fatty acids , this was no longer the case .
EoTvoS attempted to show theoretically that to the former class belonged substances for .
which the complexity of the liquid molecule was the same as that of the molecule , while to the latter class belonged substances for which the complexity of liquid molecule was the greater .
He also indicated how the degree of complexity any temperature might be ascertained .
Quite recently , RAMSAy and SHIpLDS Phil. rans .
, by means of the principle used by EoTvos , have largely supplemented the observations of the BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
549 physicist .
results serve to confirm the idea that the fatty acids , the fatty alcohols , and water , are liquids which contain congeries of gaseous molecules , and that acetone , glycol , propionitrile , and nitroethane belong to the same category .
Thirty-six other iquids examined by them give , on the other hand , little evidence of association of molecules .
Although this method of estimating molecular complexity has not been established by rigorous theoretical qiderations either by EoTvos , or by RANSAY and SHIELDS , it must be granted that there is now strong experimental support to the contention that liquids may differ from one another in regard to the complexity of their molecules .
Since surface energy resembles viscosity , inasmuch as both are the result of extramolecular effects , it is almost certain that the one as well as the other will be affected by molecular complexity .
Hence , in dealing with viscosity , we must be prepared to find its magnitude influenced not only by the nature , number , and arrangement of the atoms composing gaseous molecules\mdash ; intra-molecular factors which alone seem to operate in the case of properties like specific ] ecular volume and molecular refraction\mdash ; but also by the extent to which the gaseous molecules become associated into complex groups in passing from gas to liquid .
GRAPHICAL REPRESENTATION 0F RESULTS .
After the observations of viscosity had been reduced , curves extending from to the boiling-points of the particular liquids were plotted against viscosity coefficients as ordinates and temperatures as abscissae .
On the scale adopted , 1 millim. corresponded to in temperature , and to 00002 in the viscosity coefficient .
On this scale a continuous curve could be drawn through the experimental points with little difficulty , as the observations taken in different limbs at the same temperature were often coincident , and were never so far.apalt as to admit of the introduction of any appreciable error by an arbitrary method of smoothing .
On plotting the curves for a group of related substances on the same sheet of paper , marked regularities were often apparent between the relative disposition of the curves for the different members and their chemical nature .
These regularities will be apparent from the reduced representations of the curves given in the following pages .
To avoid complication , the experimental points through which t , he curves are drawn have not been indicated ; it has to be remembered , however , that each curve represents on the average some observa of the viscosity coefficient .
The ordinates are multiplied by .
We now proceed to indicate the general features of these curves .
Paraffins .
The paraffins investigated were isopentane , pentane , isohexane , hexane , isoheptane , heptane , and octane .
Fig. 5 represents the results obtained .
In the case of the paraffins the curves are all of the same general shape ; their order and disposition such as to exhibit a direct connectiori between the chemical nature of the substances and the magnitudes of their viscosity coefficients .
The curve for any paraffin always lies below and to the left of that of its next higher homologue ; and , further , the curve for the isoparaffin always lies below and to the left of that for the normal paraffin .
All the curves tend to approach as the temperature rises , but it is notioeabIe that at the same temperature the distance between the curves of isomeric paraffins is larger the higher the molecular weight .
At the same temperature the viscosity is greater the higher the molecular weight and is lower for an iso- than for a normal compound .
Another striking feature in the series is that all the curves stop almost exactly on a line drawn parallel to the horizontal axis .
This means , of course , that at their respective boiling points the paraflins have almost exactly the same viscosity coefficient .
Hydrocarbons .
Only three unsaturated hydrocarbons were investigated , viz. , isoprene , -isoamylene , and .
Fig. 6 represents the results .
As in the case of the paraffins , curve for isoprene lies to the left of that for diallyl ; each of curves is also disposed in the same way with reference to the paraffin ; that of being to the left of that of isopentane ; and that of to the left of that of isohexane .
The curve for -isoamylene lies also to the left that of isopentane , and is very close to that of isoprene .
Isoprene a curve , however , which lies uniformly to the right of thab for isoamyleue although the molecular weight of the latter compound is very slightly the Hence it would appear that differences in constitution may , in some cases , the ence of molecular weight .
When , however , we compare strictly hydrocarbons , it would appear that the relative position of the viscosity mainly dependent on molecular weight .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHElsiICAL NATURE .
551 T.he position of the curve for diallyl is interesting , for when one allyl group only occurs in the molecule , as in the case of the allyl halides ( .
infra ) , the curve for the allyl compound lies between the curves for the corresponding normal and isopropyl compounds , and is thus to the left of that for the normal compound only .
When , however , two allyl groups occur in the molecule , as in the case of diallyl , the curve obtained lies to the left of that of the isopropyl ( isohexane ) as well as that of the normal propyl compound ( hexane ) .
Iodides .
The iodides investigated were methyl iodide , ethyl iodide , isopropyl iodide , propyl iodide , isobutyl iodide , and allyl iodide .
Here striking regularity is again obvious .
Fig. 7 represents the results obtained .
The cnrves are all of the same general shape , and those for the saturated iodides are disposed in accordance with molecular weights .
Isopropyl iodide , as in the case of the paraffins , has at the same temperature always a lower coefficient than normal ProPyl iodide .
The position of allyl iodide between normal and isopropyl iodides , and nearer to the normal than the iso-iodide , is noteworthy , and again indicates the influence of constitution on the viscosity coefficient .
Bromides .
Nonobromides.\mdash ; Five monobromides were examined , viz. , ethyl bromide , isopropyl bromide , propyl bromide , isobutyl bromide , and allyl bromide .
Fig. 8 represents the results obtained .
On comparing the curves for the monohalogen compounds , the same kind regularity as in the cas .
of the iodides is apparent , both as l.egards heir shape order .
The ] curve occupies a position between those of the normal and compounds as before , but is now about midway between the two .
It is also be noted that at the boiling-point the bromides have almost the same coefficient .
This regularity , so marked in the case of the paraffins , was not in the case of the iodides , but as the molecuIar weight falls it again aeserts itself , only in the case of the bromides , but also , as will be seen later , in the case of chlorides .
Dibromides.\mdash ; The dibromides investigated were acetylene dibromide , dibromide , propylene dibromide , and isobutylene dibromide .
The results are given in fig. 9 , which also contains several of the monobromides , and in for the sake of comparison , the curve for bromine is also inserted .
In order to keep the curves of somewhat the same size as in previous scale of ordinates and abscissa in this figure is two-and-a-half times as BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
553 has hitherto been .
Although the has thus been reduced , the general shape of the curves , since both ordinates and abscissae have been alteied the same ratio , is the same as it would have been on the previous scale .
The marked effect of atom of hydrogen in a monobromide by an atom of bromine , is evident on the curves of ethyl , propyl , and isobutyl bromides with the corresponding dihalogen compounds ; at , for example , ethylene bromide has a coefficient five times as great as that of ethyl bromide .
Indeed , the entire shape of the dihalogen curves differs from that of the mono-derivatives .
For the latter , the slope of the curve varies little from member to member , and is comparatively speaking small .
The slope , of course , is and is the measure of the rate of change of the viscosity coefficient with temperature .
In the case of the monoderivatives , is not only small but varies little as the temperature rises .
For dihalogen derivatives the slope is ably increased , and with it , its variation ith temperature .
also apparent that constitution exercises a marked effect in the case of the dibromides , for although the curves for acetylene , ethylene , and isobutylene follow in the order of the molecular weights of the substances , that for bron ) lies to the left instead of the right of the curve for ethylene bromide .
such data as can be obtained on this point , the divergence is more probably due to difference in symmetry between the structure of the ecules of ethylene and bromides than to any possible difference in the complexity of the liquid of these substances .
It is significant that the curves for substances of which molecules contain two atoms of bromine have such a different shape from those of mono-derivatives .
Bromine itself , as shown by the similarity of its curve to that of acetylene bromide , behaves like a dibromide .
This fact may be held to indicate the diatomic nature of its molecule .
Chlorides .
Four monochlorides were examined , viz. , isopropyl chloride , propyl chloride , isobutyl chloride , and allyl chloride .
Fig. 10 represents the results obtained .
order of the curves for the ogen compounds shows the same regularity exhibited by the raffins .
The curve for the allyl compound is nearer the than the normal propyl curve .
It is therefore evident that although in the nlonohalogen compounds the allyl curve always lies between the propyl curves , is a regular alteration in its relative position .
It is nearer the normal curve case of the iodides , but nearer the iso curve in the case of the chlorides .
boiling point the saturated mono-cblorides have , as in the case of the parent almost the same viscosity coefficient .
Dichlorides .
Three dichlorides were investigated , viz. , methylene dichloride , ethylene and ethylidene dichloride .
The results obtained are represented in , in the curves forpropyl and isobutyl chlorides are inserted for the sake of BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
555 The same effects as in the case of the dibromides are here traceable , the introduction of a second atom of chlorine exercising a marked increase in the viscosity constants .
The curve for dichlormethane occurs to the right of the normal propyl curve , .
and both the dichlorethanes are to the right of the isobutyl curve .
The distance between the curves for the dichlorethanes indicates a difference in the characters of the two substances which seems almost too great to be accounted for by the mere difference in their chemical constitutions .
Probably the molecular complexities of the two substances may not be the same .
SCHIFF'S values for the surface tension of ethylene chloride give , however , no indication of molecular aggregation , and as yet there are no other data on this point .
It is noteworthy that the curve of the symmetrical isomer lies to the right of that of the unsymmetrical isomer , position analogous to that of the curve for symmetrical ethylene dibromide as compared with that of propylene dibromide .
Poly-chlorinated Compounds .
Measurements were made on di- , tri- , and tetra-chlormethanes , and also on tetrachlorethylene .
The curves obtained are represented in fig. 12 .
The curves for the chlormethanes follow one another in the order of their molecular weights .
distance apart of the curves for the and tetra-chlor compounds is much greater than that of the curves for the di- and tri- compounds , and points to the fact that the effect produced by the introduction of a chlorine atom into the molecule of a com- pound depends on the number of chlorine atoms already present .
The comparison of the curves for tetrachlorethylene , , and tetrachlormethane , , is significant , illustrating the effect of constitution in counteracting that of molecular weight , and also the effect of temperature on the relative viscosities of two substances .
At low temperatures the compound of higher molecular weight has the lower viscosit , y , but , as the temperature , the curves cross , and the viscosity at the sam temperature is in the order of the molecular weights .
No crossing of the curvea takes plac .
in the case of any of the strictly comparable compounds which have hitherto been considered .
Sulphur Compounds .
Four compounds containing sulphur were investigated , viz. , methyl sulphido , sulphide , carbon disulphide , and thiophen .
The results obtained are represented fig. 13 .
The curves for methyl and ethyl sulphides exhibit the same regularities shape and position as other homologous compounds .
Carbon bisulphide gives a somewhat steeper curve than the alkyl sulphides ; the position of the curves for the three substances is in accordance with their weights .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
557 The curve for thiophen , , is considerably to the right of that for ethyl sulphide , , and exemplifies the probable effect of the ring grouping of atoms in increasing the viscosity constants ( vide infra ) .
Atdehydes and Ketones .
Observations were made on acetaldebyde and four ketones , viz. , dimethyl ketone , methyl-ethyl ketone , diethyl ketone , and methyl-propyl ketone .
Fig. 14 represents the results obtained .
Aldehyde and the ketones give curves which closely resemble one another , and in which is very small .
The curves follow regularly in the order of increasing molecular weight .
Methyl-propyl and diethyl ketones give curves of almost the same shape , the latter lying uniformly to the left of the former ; unlike the dichlorethanes , the symmetrical compound has in this case the smaller viscosity at the same temperature .
It should be stated , however , that the validity of this conclusion may be affected by the great difficulty of obtaining diethyl ketone in a condition of sufficient purity .
Fatty Five members of this series were investigated , viz. , formic acid , acetic acid , propionic acid , isobutyric acid , butyric acid .
represents the results obtained , on a scale two and a half times as close as that usually employed .
The character of the curves for the acids presents a marked difference from that of the paraffins and such of their derivatives as.have hitherto been considered .
One of the most important features is seen in the largely increased effect of temperature on the value of the viscosity coefficients of all the acids .
In the case of formic acid , which most ] indicates this point , the change in the coefficient between 10 is 0244 ; whilst in the case of heptane , which has about the same boilingas formio acid , the change is only about , or about one-eighth of the change the case of formic acid .
The most striking feature , however , in connection with the curves for the acids , their relative disposition , which is exceptional , the anomaly bein due to the behaviour of the lowest members of the series .
Except at temperatures close to BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF hIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
559 boiling point , the curve for formic acidis to the right of all the others ; at the same temperatures it has the greatest viscosity .
passing to acetic acid the viscosity falls , the curve for this acid lying uniformly to the left of the formic acid curve .
The curve for propionic acid , in a similar way , comes to the left of that for acetic acid .
The order of the curves for the three acids is exactly the opposite to what invariably obtains in the case of strictly homologous substances .
The curve for butyric acid , takes up a normal position to the right ofthat for propionic acid ; isobutyric acid also conforms to the general rule , the curve uniformly to the left of that of butyric acid , and to the right of that of propionic acid .
This exceptional behaviour of the tty acids is in ] probability to be traced to differences in molecular complexity .
EoTvos first suggested that the fatty acids contain complex molecules , and according to RAMSAY and SHIELDS all the acids we have examined contain molecular aggregates , and at all temperatures complexity of formic and acetic acids is somewhat the same , and more than twice as great as that of any of the acids , so that at all temperatures the weights of the liquid molecules of these two acids are greater than those of the others .
It is thus possible to give a definite reason for the apparently anomalous position the curves of the lowest acids .
In the case of the normal paraffins and their monohalogen derivatives we are dealing- with- liquids whid ] in all likelihood contain simple molecules , the molecular weights of the gas and- the liquid are- here the same , and here the curves are disposed in accordance with the ordinary gaseous weights .
In the case of the acids , however , the effect of the complexity of the liquid molecule is superadded , the molecular weights of gas and liquid are no longer the samcl , and the curves no longer follow one another in the order of the theoretical molecular weights , but their disposition evidently depends upon the weights of the liquid molecules .
Although this reasoning indicates why the viscosity curve of formic acid should lie to the right of the others , it does not explain why the curve for formic should lie to the right of that for acebic acid , because from the measurenlents of RAMSAY and , the molecular weight of liquid acetic acid is at all temperatures greater than that of formic acid , and its viscosity at any temperature would thus be expected to be greater instead of being less than that of formic acid .
It is noticeable from the numbers given by RAMSAY and SHIELDS that with the exception of acetic acid ) complexity of the first four acids diminishes with rise in molecular weight .
If the anomalous position of the viscosity curves is due solely to the effect of complexity , it is indicated that acetic acid is really no exception to this rule .
If , however , the results obtained by the surface-energy method of estimating complexity are valid , it must be admitted that the anomalous position of the curve for formic acid , with relation to that of acetic acid , is due to some peculiarity in the constitution of formic acid , which may be associated with the fact that it is the initial member of the homologous series , and does not contain a or a group .
Anhydrides .
Acetic anhydride and propionic hydride were the only members of this series which were examined .
The curves obtained , together with that of propionic acid , which is inserted for the sake of comparison , are given in fig. The curves for propionic anh.ydride and acetic anhydride are disposed in the order of the molecular ghts .
On comparing the dotted curve for propionic acid with those for the two anhydrides , it is evident that the absolute values of the coefficients for propionic anhydride are not very different from those for propionic acid at the same .
although the theoretical molecular weights of the substances differ widely .
This is probably another instance of the marked effect of moleculal complexity .
From surface energy measurements it appears that liquid acetic anhydride contains simple molecules , and from the position and course of the viscosity curve for propionic anhydride with reference to that of acetic anhydride , it is probable that propionic anhydride is also simply constituted .
Propionic acid on the other contains molecular aggregates , and from surface-energy measurements the molecular weight of the liquid is almost 130 , a number which is exactly the same the molecular weight of gaseous and probably of liquid propionic hydride .
This is probably the reason for the proximity of the curves of propionic acid anhydride .
Aromatic members of this series were investigated , viz. : benzene , toluene , ethyl ortho-xylene , meta-xylene , and para-xylene .
The results obtained are epresented in fig. 17 .
The general character of the for the aromatic hydrocarbons is similar to of raffins : is comparatively small .
One of the most striking points BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL .
561 oonnection with them the anomalous course of the benzene curve .
At benzene has a greater viscosity than ethyl benzene ; at about the curves cross and for the greater part of its course the benzene curve lies between those of ethyl benzene and toluene .
At about , however , it cuts across the toluene curve , so that at the boiling point of benzene the viscosity constants of benzene , toluene , and ethyl benzene are in the order of the molecular weights .
The curve .
toluene is uniformly to the lert of that for ethyl benzene .
Another striking point is the disposition of the curves for the three isomeric xyIenes .
The curves for the meta- and para-isomers lie between those of toluene and ethyl benzene , and thus uniformly to the left of the curve for the latter , The curve for the ortho-isomer however , is widely separated from the other two and lies considerably to the right of the curve for ethyl benzene .
It is also interesting , as emphasising the similarity between the meta- and compounds and the separation from them of the ortho-compound , that although at low temperatures para-xylene gives slightly larger coefficients than meta-xylene , yet between 11 and the boiling-point the two curves for the meta- and para-isomers are practically identical .
The peculiar course of the benzene curve might at first sight appear to indicate molecular complexity ; an extensive series of surface-energy measurements made by RAMSAY and SHIELDS would appear to show however that this disturbing factor does not here exist .
If we accept this conclusion , then difference in chemical constitution must be taken to be the cause of the peculiarity , for it is easy to lceive that a XDCCCXCIV .
property viscosity will be affected by the general contour of the moving The benzene molecule differs from those of all its homologues in containing no chains , and since the curves for the isomeric xylenes show that even a in the position of the side chains exerts a decided effect on the viscosity , the want of side chains may be expected to bring about a marked influence .
The curve for benzene , the initial member of the bomologous series of hydrocarbons , thus resembles formic acid , the initial member of the series of fatty in having an anomalous position with respect to that of higher homologues .
Alcohols .
Eleven .
alcohols were examined , viz. , methyl alcohol , ethyl alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , propyl alcohol , trimethyl carbinol , isobutyl alcohol , butyl alcohol , di-methyl ethyl carbinol , active amyl alcohol , inactive amyl alcohol , and allyl alcohol .
Fig. 18 represents the results obtained for methyl , ethyl , isopropyl , propyl , isobutyl , butyl and allyl alcohols .
The scale in this diagram , as in all those relating to the alcohols , is two and a half times as close as that usually employed .
The peculiar character of the alcohol curves is at once evident .
Here the tendency of the slope to deviate the small values which it has in the case of the paraffins and their derivatives reaches a maximum .
Even methyl alcohol , over the comparatively short temperature range between and its boiling point , gives large values of , the curve being of the same general shape as the high temperature regions of the curves of the higher alcohols .
In the case of isobutyl alcohol , for example , the change in viscosity between and is 0751 ; over the same temperature range heptane has a viscosity change , so that the same temperature change exerts almost twenty-five times as great an effect on the viscosity coefficient in the case of the alcohol as it does the case of the hydrocarbon .
continuous curves in the diagram refer to the four lowest members of the of normal alcohols .
It will be seen that the curves are disposed in accordance the theoretical molecular weights of the alcohols .
There is no anomaly such as which occurs in the case of formic and acetic acids , although there is every reason believe that molecular grouping takes place in the case of the alcohols just as in case of the acids .
From RAMSAY and SHIELDS ' observations on the four normal alcohols at temperatures , methyl alcohol is the most complex , and the complexity diminishes with rise in molecular weight , so that in the case of butyl alcohol it about half what it is in the case of methyl alcohol .
Although this is assumed the case , the molecular weights of the liquid alcohols still follow one another in .
order of the theoretical molecular weights , so that the disposition of the curves is in conformity with the weights of the liquid molecules indicated by energy observations .
WEEN THE ISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL .
563 ourves for lower iso alcohols lie no longer uniformly on one side of those of rresponding normal alcohols .
The two available comparisons show that the urve cuts that of the normal isomer , so thab at high temperatures the iso-curve , generally the case , Iies to the left of the normal curve , whilst at low temperatures ies to the right .
at any temperature is uniformly greater the iso-than the normal alcohol .
he crossing of the curves probably also tu be traced to different rates of decomtion of liquid ecular aggregates .
RAMSAY and SHIELDS ' observations deed that the molecular weight of liquid isobutyl alcohol is greater at low and less at high temperatures than that of butyl alcohol .
In the absence of any satisfactory theory little stress can , however , be laid upon the given by surface-energy observations in so far as they relate to the extent of cular gregation or to its variation with temperature .
RAMSAY and observations indicate that in some cases complexity increases with rise in temperature viscosity gives no indication of such an increase .
heir .
measurements also show liquid isopropyl alcohol has a higher molecular weight than either normal or aIcohol : the viscosity curve of isopropyl alcohol is , however , to the left of those alcohols higher in the series .
The curve for allyl alcohol is still between those of ethyl and propyl alcohols , as in the case of the paraffins and their derivatives ; its position relative to the isomeric propyl alcohols is , however , no longer the same , a fact no doubt due to mole .
cular complexity .
According to RAMSAY and SHIELDS ' observations , the molecular weight of liquid allyl alcohol is almost the same as that of liquid methyl alcohol ; .
the position of the curves for these two alcohols is , however , very different , the difference being due , in part at least , to the influence of chemical constitution .
The profound effect of constitution and molecular complexity on the relative disposition of the alcohol curves , and also the effect of temperature in altering this disposition , is evident on comparing the isomeric butyl and amyl alcohok .
Butyl Alcohols .
'rhree isomeric butyl alcohols , viz. : trimethyl isobutyl alcohol , and normal butyl alcohol were examined .
The results are represented in fig. 19 .
Tel.tiary butyl alcohol at low temperatures , just above its freezing-point , has the largest viscosity ; as the temperature rises , howeve , , its viscosity curve cuts across those of the iso- and normal isomers , so that at temperatures near its boiling-point it has the lowest viscosity .
Isobut.vl alcohol at low temperatures has , in a similar way , a much greater viscosity coefficient than the normal isomer , but , as already shown , the curve for former crosses that of the latter as temperature rises .
Ether .
The curve for ether which is , of course , isomeric with the butyl , is duced to show how markedly the chemical constitution and the molecular of a liquid affect its viscosity .
Amyl Alcohols .
Fig. 20 represents the results of the determinations on di-methyl ethyl active amyl alcohol , and inaative amvl alcohol .
As in the case of the butyl.lcohols , the tertiary isomer as at iow the largest viscosity .
EventuaJly , however , its viscosity curve crosscs those BETWEEN THEi VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
inactive and active alcohols , and higher temperatures it has the smallest viscosity .
The curve of the active alcohol stands in the same relation to that of the inactive alcohol as that of isobutyl alcohol does to that of normal butyl alcohol .
Of all the liquids examined , dimethyl ethyl .
carbinol exhibits in the most marked degree the effect of temperature on the viscosity coefficient .
At , the value of the coefficient is 14179 dine , while at , the boiling-point of the alcohol , the coefficient is only.00418 dine , or.only about of the value which it has at The general character of the curves for the alcohols clearly shows that even in monohydric alcohols there is the indication of the high valiles of the coefficient which are known to characterise the glycols , glycerin , and other hydric alcohols .
The feature which is common to all those curves , as has been stated , large value of the slope .
Temperature exerts a profound effect on the value ETWEBN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
567 viscosity , and thus we have peculiar steep curves indicating at low temperatures values for the viscosity coefficient which are enormous when compared with those of , say , the paraffins .
This rapid increase in the value of the viscosity is , in all probability , to be associated with increasing complexity in the molecule of the liquid alcohol , complexity which is probably much greater in the case of the polyhydric alcohols .
It is further to be noted that the viscosity curves which most closely resemble those of the alcohols are those of water and the fatty acids , and these are just the liquids which , along with the alcohols , have , on independent grounds , been held to consist of complex molecules .
There is thus strong support to the idea that large are to be ascribed to changes of molecular complexity , and , further , that marked change of complexity is exhibited so far as our viscosity observations go by only one type of substances , namely , those which , like water , an acid , or an alcohol , contain a hydroxyl group .
The peculiarities above referred to are thus related to the chemical nature of the substances , and comparisons of the curves for hydroxy componnds such as water , formic acid , and propyl alcohol with that of heptane , all of which substances have boiling points differ at most by only makes evident at glance the peculiarity here considered .
The oWing tables contain values of the coefficients of viscosity read off at intervals of from the cul.ves originally plotted .
Besides giving an idea of how the viscosity coefficient varies from substance to substance the numbers may serve as data for , either graphically or by the ordinary interpolation formulae .
the values of the coefficients at particular temperatures:\mdash ; COEFFICIENTS OF VISCOSITY ( dynes per sq .
centim. ) .
HyDROCARBONS .
PARAFFINS .
UNSATURATED HYDROCARBONS .
BETWEEN THE cosITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
) DIBROMIDES AND COMPOUNDS CONTAINING SULPHUR .
BETWEEN VIScosITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURb ANHyDRIDES ( Oxides ) .
ALCOHOLS .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
573 Conclusions drawn from the raphical Representation of the Results .
From the graphical representation of the results , we appear to be justified in that the value of the viscosity coefficient depends not only on nolecular weight and chemical constitution but also on molecular complexity .
For liquids which probably contain simple molecules , or for which there is , in any case , little evidence of the association of gaseous , the following conclusions be drawn:\mdash ; ( 1 ) In homologous series , or in series of related substances , the viscosity is greater the greater the molecular weight .
( 2 ) An iso-compound has always a smaller viscosity coefficient than the corresponding normal compound .
( 3 ) An allyl compound has in general a coefficient which is greater than that of the corresponding iso-propyl compound , but less than that of the normal propyl compound .
( 4 ) Substitution of halogen for hydrogen raises the viscosity by an amount which is greater the greater the atomic weight of the halogen .
Successive substitution of hydrogen by chlorine in the same molecule brings about different increments in the viscosity coefficient .
( 5 ) In some cases , as in those of the dichlorethanes , constitution exerts a marked influence on the viscosity ; and in the case of the dibromides and benzene it may be so large that the compound of higher molecular weight has the smaller viscosity .
( 6 ) Certain liquids , which probably contain molecular complexes , do not obey these rules .
Formic and acetic acids are exceptions to rule ( 1 ) .
The alcohols conform at some , but not at all , temperatures to rule ( 2 ) ; at no temperature , however , do they conform to rule ( 3 ) .
( 7 ) Liquids containing molecular complexes have in general large values of ( 8 ) In both classes of liquids the behaviour of the initial members of homologous series , such as formic acid and benzene , is in some cases exceptional when compared with that of higher homologues .
ALGEBRAIC REPRESENTATION 0F RESULTS .
We have already discussed the various types of mathematical expression which have been suggested in order to represent the relation of viscosity to temperature .
As already stated , we found at , on the whole , the most satisfactory formula hitherto devised is that due to SLOTTE .
We , therefore , next sought to determine whether any connection could be traced between the magnitudes of the constants in this formula and the chemical nature of the substances .
Writing the formula in the shape , where is , the viscosity coefficient at , it is seen\mdash ; as , indeed , follows from the previous discussion of the disposition of the curves\mdash ; that , in general , in any series of related substances : ] increases as the molecular weight increases ; ( 2 ) for an iso-compound is less than for the corresponding normal compound ; ( 3 ) for an allyl compound is less than for the corresponding normal compound but greater than for the isopropyl compound .
Exceptions to ( 1 ) occur in the case of lowest members of the series of fatty hydrocarbons , and dibromides .
Excoptions to ( 2 ) and occur in the of alcohols .
As to the magnitude of in passing from one series to another nothing definite can be said .
The corresponding iodides , bromides , and chlorides give values which are in the order of their molecular weights ; the acids and alcohols , however , although possessing smaller theoretical molecular weights than the corresponding iodides , give larger values of , due , doubtless , to the influence of molecular complexity .
As regards the other constants of the formula , and are terms connected the temperature variation of .
It is evident , however , from the appended table that nagnitudes of these terms are not simply related to the chemical nature of the , substances .
Pentane and isopentane , for example , give different values for these constants , although the two experimental curves are almost superposable .
This is doubtless due partly to the facts \mdash ; ( 1 ) That SLOTTE'S formula does not express the true law of the temperature change of the viscosity , and ( 2 ) That only three observations are used in deducing the formula ; but mainly to the circumstance ( 3 ) That the values of and are interdependent , so that different pairs of values of and may be found which give , with the same value of , practically the same viscosity curve , and , from the mode of deducing these constants , the individual values of and are often affected by influences which fall within the limits of error .
( 1 ) and ( 2 ) .
For short straight curves the formula gives numbers which agree with the observed values , the differences exhibiting no regularity .
In the of isopropyl chloride , for instance , the calculated values agree with those of tion to the fourth significant figure\mdash ; that is , on an average , to 1 part in 2000 ; with a degree of accuracy which is certainly as high as we may suppose the tions themselves to possess .
As soon , however , as the length of the curve increases , the slope begins to vary considerably as the temperature rises\mdash ; that is , as soon as observed curve commences to deviate to a marked extent from the linear type\mdash ; formula begins to break down , and the differences vary in a regular way , and that at low temperatures the calculated curve is to the right and at high to the left of the observed curve .
Attempts were made to obtain a.better agree in cases such as this .
Professor HENRICI , to whom we are oted for assistance in the mathematical treatment of our results , spent some considerable THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
575 tempting to deduce a suitable formula ; and on the publication of SLOTTEi'Spa ] ) sought , by an application of the method of least squares , to employ the whole of experimental results in arriving at the values of the constants .
The improvent , however , was hardly conmensurate with the arithmetical labour involved .
It follows by differentiating SLOTTE'S formula in the shape ' on using the differences between the observed values of and those deduced by formula as values for , as many equations as there were observations were ained .
These were then added together into three groups , the sums being solved , and , the corrections to be applied to the constants in the original rmula .
The results obtained by this method were again but a slight those given by the unmodified constants .
Of course , better agreement would be tained by introducing more constants into the formula .
Immediately this is done , wever , the simple character of the formula disappears , and it is rendered unwieldy , indeed , unsuited for carrying out a general physico-chemical inquiry as to the pendence of viscosity on temperature .
The worth of the simple formula can only be tested when some means has been vised for employing all the observations in deducing it .
In some cases it was vious that all or most of the differences between observed and calculated values ere of the same sign , so that by slightly altering the value of , and thus shifting the lculated curve , a better agreement could be obtained .
When possible this was done .
As stated before , the less of the agreement between the formula and obserdepends on the slope .
As the difference between the slopes at and the iling point increases , the deviations increase .
For many liquids calculated and served numbers only give a fair agreement in f , he fifth decimal place , and this en thought sufficiently good .
In these cases , the initial slope , in general , diminishes about one-tenth of its value as the curves are descended .
Although , for curves in hich the slope varies to such a large extent as this , the results giving the comparison calculated and observed numbers have only been given to the fifth decimal place , ere is every reason to believe that the observed values are just as accurate as those liquids giving short straight curves and where the agreement is satisfactory as far the sixth place .
In the case of the alcohols the slope changes so considerably as mperature rises , in some cases being at the boiling-point only of what it is at at the observed curve has had to be split up into two or ree parts , and a sepax.ate mula calculated for each , in order to give the required degree of agreement .
It is nificant that when this is done the values of and vary according to the part the curve chosen , a circumstance indicating that no great stress should be put the relative magnitudes of the constants in the ordinary formula .
For , obviously their values depend so much upon the particular part of the curve that if it were possible to take observations below , values rent from already given would be obtained .
the following table are given the values of , and in SLOITE'S formula:\mdash ; CONSTANTS in SLOTTE'S Formula , BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATUR .
577 CONSTANTS in SLOTTE'S Formula , ( continued ) .
CONSTANTS in Formula : ( continued ) .
( 3 .
) The main cause of the want of regularity in the ] of and is , no due to the fact that they are interdependent , and , as has bren stated , that pairs of values of these constants give practically the same curve .
Moreover , the mode of deducing their , they are , in many cases , largely affected influences which are within the limits of experimental error .
On referring to it will be seen that the denominator of the expression which serves to determine .
In the case of curves which approach the linear type this is but small , it may be but several tenths of a degree ; and , hence , since an error one-twenty-fifth of a degree in reading off from the curve corresponds to of a degree in bhe value of the denominator , in extreme cases the value of may altered by one-half by errors incidental to plotting and reading the curves , in the case of aldehyde , the denominator is , and here an error of BETWEEN THE OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATIJRh1 .
579 obtaining would alter the value of by more than 60 per cent. It is worth noting , however , that in spite of this uncertainty , which is , of course , greatest in the case of mobile liquids having low boiling-points , the value of varies within comparatively narrow hmits for all the liquids ; if the al.cohols investigated be excepted , the sixty- two remaining liquids give a mean value for of .
The maximum value occurs in the case of isohexane , which has an extremely small value for , and the minimum in the case of .
Aldehyde the large value of for but here the value of is smaller than for any other substance ; methyl alcohol gives a value similar to that given by aldehyde ; but in the case of ethyl alcohol is as high as .
For the higher aJcohols two or three formulae are used in each case , but still the value of remains in general high , its average value for the alcohols being .
In the case of trimethyl carbinol the values of are small ; but here the values of are enormous as compared with those given by the majority of the liquids .
The alcohols thus differ from all the other liquids in giving larger values of or of or of both these constants ; they are thus characterised by the marked effect exerted by temperature on their viscosities .
From the fact that the values of and are small for the great majority of the substances , it became a matter of interest to ascertain if in the formula a few terms in the expansion of would not suffice to denote the effect of temperature upon viscosity .
For inasmuch as the coefficients of , \amp ; c. , in the expansion involve both and , it might be expected that the magnitudes of these coefficients would be related to the chemical nature 01 the substances .
The data given in the following table serve to test the above points when three terms in the expansion are employed .
In the headed and are given , for all the liquids but the alcohols and water , the values of these coefficients in the expression .
The remaining columns serve to give an idea of the accuracy with which this modified formula reproduces the observed values of .
Since the terms omitted in the formula are most important at hjgh temperatures , the differences between observed and calculated values will be greatest at the highest temperatures .
Under are given temperatures as near as possible to the boiling points of the liquids and satisfying also the condition , which simplifies the calculations , that eaoh is an integral product of 10 .
Under ( calculated ) are giyen the values of at the temperature as deduced from the above modified formula , and under ( observed ) the values of at as read off from the curves .
The differences obtained may be taken as the maximum ifferences between the observed and calculated values given at any temperature .
su MESSRS .
T. E. THORPLI AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS .
BJlTWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
581 Formula , tinued .
Agreement of Observed and Calculated The differences given in the table show that in the great majority of cases the greement is very close .
Indeed it clearIy points to the conclusion that an expression the type will hold for most of the liquids .
Fifty-five of the liquids give differences which are not greater than 5 ; in the diffel.ences are nil .
Five of the liquids give differences greater the largest , viz. , per cent. , being given by propionic anhydride .
In most of where the differences are greater than 2 , slightly better agreement is by introducing another term into the expansion .
Since is less than 2 these liquids the additional term is negative , and the denominator in the smalier ; the result is , that with the additional term the calculated are all too large , whereas with three terms , as the table shows , they are all too In the case of ethylene bromide and ortho-xylene the negative differences on using the additional term are greater than the positive differences given by formula already used .
Little advantage is therefore obtained by introducing term into the formula , and in any case the small differences , given by all substances in the preceding table indicate that the values of the coefficient and closely represent the true effect of temperature upon viscosity , and that connections which may be traced between the magnitudes of these coefficients and chemical nature of the substances may therefore be regarded as valid ] The nature of these relationships is dealt with in what follows .
tionships between the Magnitudes of the Temperature Coeflicients and On taking a general survey of the table it is evident that the fatty and their monohalogen derivatives , the sulphides , the ketones , aldehyde and are characterized by small values of the coefficients ; in these series exerts the smallest effect on the viscosity .
The aromatic hydrocarbons and have larger values of the coefficients , whilst the largest of all are given by alkylene dibromides , the acids , and the anhydrides , to which may also ) ethylene dichloride and carbon tetrachloride .
On closer examination the following conclusions may be arrived at : Hornologues.\mdash ; In general the coefficients increase as a homologous series is ascend Exceptions to the rule occur in the case of the dibromides , formic and acetic aci benzene and toluene , probably for the reasons already given when gl.aphical representation of the results .
Corresponding Compounds.\mdash ; In general the compound of higher molecular has the larger coefficients .
This rule is obeyed by the chlorides , iodides of the alkyls , by the allyl halogen compounds , and by ethylene chloride bromide .
The acids on the other hand , although they have smaller molecular have much larger coefficients than the corresponding iodides .
Substitution of for Hydrogen.\mdash ; On comparing the coefficients mono-bromides with those of the corresponding dibromides , the large increase BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMTCAL NATURE .
583 values of the coefficients produced by the replacement of hydrogen by bromine is made evident .
The chlormethanes also indicate that replacement of one atom of hydrogen by one atom of chlorine also raises the vaJues of the coefficients ; that the increase varies with the amount of chlorine already present in the molecule is shown by the large values of the coefficients given by carbon tetrachloride .
In connection with these substances the large coefficients of the alkylene dibromides as compared with those of acetylene dibromide and bromine , of ethylene dichloride as compared with ethylidene chloride , and of tetrachlormethane as compared with tetrachlorethylene , are noteworthy .
Isomers.\mdash ; Normal and iso compounds have coefficients which are almost the same .
The acids constitute the most marked exception , probably on account of the disturbing effect of molecular complexity .
Of the two isomeric ketones , diethyl ketone , the symmetrical isomer , has the smaller coefficients ; the opposite conclusion holds in the case of the chlorethanes .
The values for the isomeric aromatic hydrocarbons clearly indicate the peculiar behaviour of ortho-xylene which has considerably larger values than the closely agreeing numbers given by the other isomers .
The difference between the observed and calculated numbers is greater than that given by any of the substances in the preceding tables , and on introducing another term into the formula the difference is changed from to , so that little advantage is thus derived .
The bove agreement is sufficiently close to allow and 7 to be regarded as expressing the temperature effect with sufficient accuracy for the end at present in view , and the magnitudes of these coefficients are particularly interesting .
For , although is ] than in the case of several of the liquids given in the first set of tables , the value of given by water is the largest of any yet considered .
At low temperatures , temperature has a large effect on the viscosity of water ; at higher temperatures , however , the effect is relatively smaller than in the case of liquids with correspondingly large values of .
In its behaviour at low temperatures , water strongly resembles the acids , and more especially the alcohols , and there is little doubt that the peculiarit , ies of all these liquids be ascribed to the presence of molecular aggTegations .
The Atcohols .
The only two alcohols , which had values of which were not very far removed from 2 , coupled with moderately small values of , and which , therefore , had any likelihood of giving a serviceable formula of the type already used , were and allyl alcohols .
The results for these two alcohols are given below:\mdash ; Methyl alcohol gives a moderately small difference , the values of its coefficients being somewhat the same as those of the acids .
Allyl alcohol gives a much larger difference , and has larger coefficients than methyl alcohol .
It , is to be noted that in both cases the values of are large , pointing to large temperature changes at the higher temperatures .
Of the remaining alcohols the values of or of , or of both , are so large as to preclude any chance of agreement between the results of observation and those given by a formula with three terms , and nothing would be gained by the use of involving such a number of terms as would make the agreement satisfactory .
For the large values of , given by the alcohols , clearly indicate that with them the effect of temperature upon viscosity is in general much more pronounced than in any other series .
In the following table are given for each alcohol the values for and 7 , obtained , as before , from SLOTTE'S formula .
Where several of these formulae have been used only that corresponding to the lowest temperature range is given in each case .
The range over which the original SLOTTE'S formula applied is indicated in the table .
The values are given merely for the purpose of showing how the behaviour of the differs from that of the other substanoes .
BETWEEN THE YISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
585 FORMULA , .
From the above table it follows that , although the values of in the case of ethyl and propyl alcohols are somewhat less than those given by one or two of the liquids which had the largest values in the first table , yet in all cases the values of 7 are much larger than for any of the liquids previously discussed .
Here we ve the indication of the persistence of large temperature alterations at high mperatures , which brings about the long steep curves so characteristic of the oohols .
It is further evident from the table that the values of the coefficients of the normal cohols increase with the rise in molecular weight and increase on passing to the onding iso-alcohol , and still further increase on passing to the corresponding alcohol .
The largest values of all the temperature coefficients is possessed tertiary butyl alcohol ( trimethyl carbinol ) .
It is also noteworthy that inactive amyl alcohol has smaller coefficients than utyl alcohol , and , further , that the large differences between the coefficients of iv and inactive amyl alcohols point to the markedly different courses taken by the rves of these closely-related isomers over the low temperature ranges .
The alcohols , like the acids , have much larger temperature coefficients , although dler theoretical molecular weights than the corresponding iodides .
This result is doubt to be attributed to the presence of molecular aggregates in the liquid hok .
It must be noted , however , that the behaviour of the alcohols differs from of the acids , for , in the latter , the coefficients at first diminish in ascending the of normal acids , and isobutyric acid has smaller coefficients than normal butyric whereas , in the case of the alcohols , there is a persistent rise in the values of the cients as the series of normal alcohols is ascended , and isobutyl alcohol has larger DCCCXCIV .
coefficients than normal butyl alcohol .
These results are no doubt to be ascribed rences in the mode in which the complexity alters in the two series .
The preceding discussion sorves to show that the effect which temperature on the viscosity of a liquid substance is related to its chemical nature and physical constitution .
Conclusions concerning the Effect of Temperature on 1 .
SLOTTE'S formula gives the best results in the case of observed viscosity in which the slope varies but little with the temperature .
Where the .variation of the slope is considerable , as in the case of the alcohols , several formulae of this type have to be employed in order to represent the effect of temperature upon viscosity with sufficient accuracy .
2 .
As regards the relations between the chemical nature of the substances , and the magnitudes of their temperature coefficients , it is evident that : From the mode in which the constants and , in SLOTTE'S formula , are derived , their individual values cannot be expected to be simply related to chemical nature ; ( b ) For the majority of the liquids , the formula , , obtained SLOTTE'S formuia by neglecting terms in the denominator involving higher powers of than , closely expresses the effect of tempera ture on viscosity , and , in this formula , the magnitudes of the coefficients and are definitely related to the .
weight and the constitution of the substances ; ( c ) The substances , to which this modified formula does not apply , are terized by large temperature coefficients , and these substances are in those which , like water , the acids , and the alcohols , contain aggregates .
COMPARISONS 0F MAGNITUDES AT COMPARABLE The examination of the curves for families of related substances gives , of general idea of how the viscosity varies from member to member .
In order , to obtain quantitative relationships between viscosity and chemical nature , compare one group of substances with another , it was necessary to fix upon temperatures , and to obtain and compare the values correspoilding with temperatures .
The first point to decide was at what temperature viscosities should be BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
587 In the , owing to the fact that the temperature variation has been little studied , it has been customary to employ one and the same temperature for all substances .
The kind of relationships which are obtained by such a system of comparison have already been indicated in connection with the graphical representation of our observations .
We have thought it to say anything further regarding this method , for , as has been shown , the viscosity curves , even in the same family of substances cross one another , so that quantitative relationships ) tained at any single temperature of comparison can have no pretensions to generality , but must vary with the value of the particular temperature selected .
The first comparable temperature which suggested itself was the boiling-point , and the detailed examination of viscosity at the boiling-point is first set out .
With such data as could be obtained relating to critical temperatures , we then calculated values of corresponding temperatures by the method indicated by VAN DER WAALS .
The particular temperature adopted ( 6 ) was such that it included the greatest number of cases .
A very brief summary of the results obtained at the corresponding temperature of 6 is next given .
Following this are the results obtained by the use of a new system of deducing comparable temperatures , the details .
of which are given on pp. 622 and 623 .
Viscosity Magnitudes dealt with at the Different of Comparison .
At each of the different conditions of comparison the experimental results have been expressed according to the same system , in order to show at a glance relationships between the magnitudes of the viscosity constants and the chemical nature of the substances .
The liquids are arranged so that chemically-related substances are grouped oups of homologues , chlorides , bromides , and , propyl and allyl compounds , groups of isomers , \amp ; c. The alcohols , on account of their peculiar behaviour all the conditions of comparison , are kept more or less separate from the other liquids .
Tables are constructed in this way which give the values of three different magnitudes derivable from measurements of the viscosity of the substances .
( 1 ) Values of the Viscosity fficient .
The first set of tables contains values of the viscosity coefficient in dynes per sq .
centim. and exhibit how this physical constant varies from liquid to liquid at the temperature of comparison .
( 2 ) Values of Specifc MArea .
The Viscosity .
The second set of tables contains values the coefficients treated so as to quantitatively connect them with the chemical nature of the substances .
The absolute coefficient is the force in dynes which has to be exerted per unit area of a liquid surface in order to maintain its velocity reIative to hat of another parallel surface at unit distance equal to unity .
It seemed , however , that relations between viscosity and chemical nature would best be brought to light if instead of adopting merely unit areas we selected areas which were related to the specific molecular volumes of the liquids .
If be in grams a weight of substance numerically equal to its molecular weight , and if be the density of the liquid , is the specific molecular volume or a volume ofliquid in cub. centim. which contairls for different substances the same number of gaseous molecules .
evidently gives in sq .
centim. the area of the face of a cube which may be taken to represent the specific molecular volume .
This area we term the specific molecular area and the product of and the specific molecular area we term the molecular viscosity .
With the units employed , it is the force in dynes which has to be exerted on a liquid surface equal to the specific ] ecular area in sq .
centim. in order to maintain its velocity equal to unity under the unit conditions laid down in the definition of the viscosity coefficient .
In the absence of a dynamical theory of the nature of liquid viscosity if we assume , as has already been done by EoTvos , on the specific molecular here are distributed , on the average , the same number of molecules , the molecular viscosity may be taken as proportional to the force which has to be exerted on a liquid molecule in order to maintain its velocity equal to unity under unit conditions .
( 8 ) Values of Specifc Molecular Volume .
The Iolecutar Viscosity Work .
The product of and the specific molecular volume exhibits relations to chemical nature of the same kind as those given by molecular viscosity .
This product is evidently the molecular viscosity multiplied by which is the length in centimeters of the edge of the cube which represents the specific molecular volume , and this length we term the specific molecular length .
has evidently the dimensions of work , and for this reason we term it the molecular viscosity work .
In ordinary units it is the work in ergs required to move a liquid surface equal to the specific molecular area in sq .
centim. through the specific molecular length in centim. under unit conditions .
If the specific molecular length be assumed to be proportional to the average distance between the centres of two adjacent molecules the molecular viscosity work is proportional to the work spent in moving a moIecule through the average distance between two molecules under unit conditions .
In deducing specific molecular volumes , specific molecular areas , etc. , gaseous rnolecular weights were employed .
It was therefore to be expected that the relationships between the magnitudes of the molecular viscosity and molecular viscosity work , existing in the case of liquids for which the liquid and gaseous molecular weights were identical , would no longer be the same when the liquids contained aggregates of aseous molecules .
By this mode of treatment it was hoped that if these magBETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR NATURE .
589 nitudes were simply related amongst themselves in the case of non-associated liquids , deviations from such regularities would be exhibited by complex liquids , and these deviations would give some indication of the existence and extent of the molecular grouping .
A. COMPARISONS 0F scoslTY MAGNITUDES AT TfJE B Following the suggestion of SCHRoDER and KOPP , the temperature of the boiling-point has been largely used in the comparison of the physical constants of liquids ; at this temperature the vapour pressures of the substances are , of course , the same , and this equality emed to justify the use of the boiling-point as a comparable temperature .
DBERG has pointed out that the reason why KOPP obbained re]ationships between the densities of liquids and their chemical nature at the boiling-point , probably lies in the fact that the boiling-point is pproximately a so-called corre- sponding temperature .
If the absolute boiling-point be divided by the absolute temperature , ient having the average value of 2/ 3 is obtained , so that the boiling- point is approximately the corresponding temperature of 66 .
According to the theoretical views of VAN DER WAALS , the thermal properties ' liquids should be compared at such corresponding temperatures , and the accidental agreement between the boiling-point and the corresponding temperature of 66 is taken by GULDBERG as being the reason for the success of the boiling-point as a temperature of comparison .
It may be contended , however , that this argument is not altogether valid .
Seeing that , in general , the higher the boiling-point the higher is the critical temperature and the larger is the difference between the two , the ratio of the absolute boiling-point to the absolute critical temperature cannot vary very much for different substances .
It may be written\mdash ; .
' where B.P. is the ordinary boiling-point and C.T. the ordinary critical temperature expressed .
on the cerltigrade scale .
Here the ratio is seen to be unity diminished by a fraction in which the numerator increases along with the denominator , which latter contains a large constant term , viz. , 273 .
According to another deduction from VAN DER WAALS ' theory substances may be compared when under corresponding pressures , or pressures which are the same tion of their critical pressures .
Comparisons at corresponding temperatures should lead to like results .
If the -point were a corresponding ternperature , then the vapour pressure at the boiling-point should for all liquids be the same fraction of the critical pressure .
But at the boiling-point the vapour pressures of different substances are the same , and hence if the boiling-point be approximately a corresponding temperature , the critical ures of substances ought to be approximately the same .
This conclusion , however , is not supported by facts , and hence , having regard to the doctrine of corresponding pressures , GULDBERG'S vie , that the boiling-point may be regarded as a corresponding temperature , receives no support from VAN DER WAALS ' theory .
Hitherto the boiling-point has been ] of value as a comparable temperature in dealing with properties which , like density or surface energy , vary but slowly with the temperature .
It was a matter of interest , therefore , to determine if it led to good results in the case of a property like viscosity , which alters rapidly with the temperature .
No doubt physico-chemical relationships , even in the case of these slowly changing properties , are not so definite as might be desired , and the want of precision may in part be due to the fact that at the boiling-point the substances are not in really comparable conditions .
Evidence on this point seemed most likely to be gained by the study of a property which , like viscosity , varies so largely with temperature .
In deciding upon the particular boiling-points to be adopted , we have made a careful critical examination of all existing data , and have selected the mean value of what seemed to be the best authenticated determinations , including our own .
In the following tables the values of have been read from the curves , and are multiplied by in order to avoid the use of decimals .
COEFFICIENTS 0F VISCOSITY AT TflE BOILING-P01NT .
( in dynes per sq .
centim. ) HOMOLOGUES .
Homologues .
It apparent from the table that the effect on the viscosity-coefficient of an increment of in molecular weight varies from series to series .
Paraffins.\mdash ; In this series the viscosity-coefficient is practically the same , both in the case of normal and iso-hydrocarbons .
Here we have the somewhat striking result that the magnitude of the coefficient is practically independent of molecular weight .
A similar result holds for the two hydrocarbons , isoprene and diallyl , and also for the alkyl chlorides , as the viscosity of propyl chloride , which does not occur in the table , is 274 .
In all the other series , with the exception of methylene and ethylene chlorides and the alcohols\mdash ; that is , in the case of the iodides , bromides , sulphides , ketones , acids , anhydrides and arotnatic hydrocarbons , an increment of brings about a diminution in the viscosity coefficient .
Moreover , it is the general rule that the diminution becomes less and less as the series is ascended .
In the case of the dichlorides the compound of higher molecular weight has a decidedly higher coeflicient .
This difference is no doubt affected by the same cause which brings about the wide separation of the curves of the isomeric dichlorethanes .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEIsITCAL .
593 If ethylidene chloride be used instead of ethylene chloride , a negative difference , as in most other series , is obtained for the effect of The fact , too , that methylene chloride is the lowest member of the series , and contains only one carbon atom , may be important .
The large differences brought about by the values for formic acid and benzene are further indications of the abnormal coefficients possessed by the initial members of homologous series .
Alcohols.\mdash ; This series , as is the case under every condition of , differs from all the others .
An increment of not only exercises great influence on the viscosity coefficient , but its effect is , inasmuch as the sign changes as the molecular weight increases .
The differences between the first three members are positive ; all the others are negative .
In the tertiary alcohols the effect of is at a maximum , and reaches the large value of CORRLSPONDING Compounds .
On comparing the coefficients of corresponding halogen compounds a marked regularity is apparent .
The iodide has a coefficient which is invariably larger , in general , by some 30 units , than that of the corresponding bromide , while the bromide has in turn a coefficient which is invariably larger than that of the corresponding chloride , in general by some.50 units .
There is here a close connection between the molecular weights of the halides and the magnitude of their coefficients , whether the compounds be normal or iso alkyl derivatives , or ] or ethylene derivatives .
On comparing the acids with the iodides , the two lowest members exbibit , a marked irregularity .
Formic acid has a coefficient which is more than half as large again as that of methyl iodide , although the latter has the higher molecular weight .
The coefficient of acetic acid is still larger than that of ethyl iodide , although the difference is only one-tetlth of what it was in the case of the formic acid comparison .
and isobutyric acid give values which are uniformly ] by some 30 units than thosc of the cotTesponding iodides , so that sufficiently higt ) up in the acid series members conform to the rule that the compound of lower molecular weight has lower viscosity .
This behaviour of the acids with reference to the iodides is very probably to ibuted to the high molecular complexity of the lowest acids .
If the coefficient is greater the higher the molecular weight of the liquid molecule , on and SHIELDS ' observations to estimate the complexity , it that acetic acid old have a slightly larger viscosity than ethyl iodide .
and highel acids should have smaller viscosities than the colresponding iodides just as is the case in the above table .
Formic acid , on the other its complexity appears from surface-energy observations to be about the same as that of acetic has , at its boiling-point , a smaller liquid molecular weight than methyl iodide , and would be expected to have a correspondingly smaller viscosity .
This is , howevel , not the case , and points either to the , as already stated , that the surface-energy observations employed do not give a correct measure of the compIexity , or that formic acid , as initial member of the homologous series , gives a peculiar value of the viscosity coefficient .
On ring the alcohols with the iodides , methyl alcohol is seen to have a much smaller coefficient than methyl iodide , but for the remaining alcohols given in the table the coefficients are decidedly greater than those of the iodides ; for the saturated the difference is about 100 units .
These results cannot be easily explained .
According to surface-energy measurements the weights of the molecules of the liquid lcohols are invariably lower than the ordinal.y molecular of corresponding iodides .
Methyl alcohol , however , is the only alcohol which has a lower viscosity than the corresponding iodide .
In explanation of these anomalies the following points be borne in mind : 1 .
The degree of molecular complexity not be accurately indicated by surfaceenergy measurements .
2 .
The molecular ] exity of f , he alcohols may increase with rise in molecular weight .
3 .
The boiling-pointlnay not be a snitable condition of comparison .
That the -point is a suitable condition of comparison in the case of the chlorides , bromides , and iodides is shown by the fairly definite relations exhibited .
Hence , it is probable that the molecular complexity of the alcohols does increase with rise in molecular weight , contrary to the conclusion arrived at from surface-energy measurements .
BETWEEN THHi VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL fURHi .
NORMAL Allyl Compounds .
With the exception of the alcohols , a normal propyl compound invariably a slightly larger coefficient than the corresponding allyl compound , the average difference being some 9 units .
It is noteworthy that diallyl and normal hexane are related in the same way as the halogen .
In the case of the alcohols , the difference is still in the same sense but has reached the value of 90 units , or 10 times its magnitude in the preceding comparisons , a result no doubt due to molecular complexity .
Ethylene and acetylene bromides may be compared here , as they differ in constitution in the same way as normal propyl and ally ] compounds .
The saturated compound has a coefficient which is the larger by some 72 units , a value comparable with that given by the alcohols .
ISOLOGOUS Hydrocarbons .
On comparing normal pentane with isoamylene , loss of hydrogen is attended by fall in viscosiGy of some 15 units .
Isoprene and diallyl give numbers which differ from those of the corresponding paraffins by about the same amount , some 12 units .
It is thus evident , that in passing from amylene to isoprene , the effect of loss of hydrogen on the viscosity-coefficient is counterbalanced by constitutive influences .
The effects of constitution are well illustrated by the numbers given by the aromatic hydrocarbons which are decidedly larger than those of ) corresponding paraffins , so that fall in molecular weight appears to be accompamed by rise in viscosity .
The large difference given by benzene may be attributed to the behaviour exhibited in general by the lowest members of homologous series , to which reference has already been made .
of Halogen for Hydrogen .
On comparing alkylene dibromides with alkyl the same number of carbon atoms , it is evident that on replacing hydrogen by bromine the viscosity coelficient is largely increased .
The variation of the effect with increase in molecular weight is , however , not regular ; this is probably due , as already indicated , to the peculiar behaviour of propylene bromide .
The values for the chlormethanes indicate that , the effect of substituting hydrogen by chlorine is to increase the , yet the magnitude of the effect depends to a great extent on the amount of halogen already present in the molecule .
COMPOUNDS Differing by 1 Carbon Atom .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
597 The introduction of a carbon atom and the occurrence of a double linkage , which takes place in passing from tetrachlormethane to tetrachlorethylene , is followed by a considerable .
of the viscosity coefficient , viz. , 107 units .
This effect is almost the same as that produced on passing methyl alcohol to acetaldehyde , where is replaced by CO. It must not be forgotten , however , that in the case of methyl alcohol the result is affected by molecular complexity .
NORMAL and Iso Compounds .
Excluding the alcohols , the viscosity-coefficient of an iso compound is eithel slightly greater than , or ahnost equal to , that of the corresponding normal compound .
In the seven cases cited , the coefficient of the iso compound is , on average , greater by some units .
the case of the alcohols the differences are in the same sense , but have considerably larger values , viz. , 28 and 47 units .
BUTYL Alcohols and Ethyl Ether .
Alcohols .
comparing the coefficients of the isomeric alcohols they seem to vary in a regular way with the constitution .
The more branched the -ain of atoms in the molecule the higher is the viscosity .
A tertiary alcohol has a larger coefficient than an iso- alcohol , and an iso alcohol than a normal alcohol .
Active and inactive amyl alcohols have almost the same coefficients at their boiling-points .
If the above relations are affected by complexity , it is evident that the extent of the complexity is dependent on the chemical nature of the substances .
ALLYL Alcohol and Acetone .
Allyl alcohol has a value which is more than half as large again as that of acetone , and , as is shown in the preceding table , butyl alcohol a value which is more than twice as large as that of ether .
These results are , no doubt , affected both by diffe , in chemical constitution and of molecular complexity .
HANES .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
599 ISOMERIC Ketones .
Ethylene chloride gives a coefficient which is markedly larger than that of ethylidene chloride .
Here the symmetrical isomer has the larger value .
In the case of isomeric ketones , however , the symmetrical compound has slightly the smaller coefficient .
The probable cause of this result has already been indicated .
AROMATIC Hydrocarbons .
Meta- and para-xylene have identical coefficients , which are , however , removed from that of ortho-xylene , which is some 30 units larger .
The value for ethyl benzene is between that of ortho-xylene and of the other two isomers .
General Conclusions to Viscosity Coefficients at the Boiting-point .
The results arlived at from the previous discussion may be summarized as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) As an homologous series is ascended , in a few cases the viscosity coefficients remain practically the same , but in the greater number of series the coefficients diminish .
In one series the coefficients increase .
In the case of the alcohols the coefficients vary ularly with ascent of the series .
( 2 .
) Of corresponding compounds , the one having the highest theoretical molecular weight has in general the highest coefficient .
The acids and , to a much greater extent , the alcohols do not accord with this rule .
( 3 .
) Normal propyl compounds have , as a rule , slightly higher values than allyl compounds ; in the case of the alcohols propyl compounds have much the higher value .
MESSRS .
T. ] .
THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS ( 4 .
) The effect of molecular weight is in some cases more than counterbalanced by the effect of constitution or of complexity .
( 5 .
) The lowest members of homologous series frequently exhibit deviations from the regularities shown by higher members .
( 6 .
) An iso compound has , in general , a larger coefficient than a normal compound , and the differences reach their maximum in the case of the alcohols .
( 7 .
) In the case of other metameric substances , branching of the atomic chain and the symmetry of the molecule influence the magnitudes of the coefficients ; the orthoposition , in the case of aromatic compounds , appears to have a more marked effect on the coefficient than either the meta- or para-positions .
The isomeric normal alcohols give values which are almost twice as large as those of acetone and ethyl ether .
( 8 .
) One of the most striking points thus brought to light is the peculiar behaviour of the alcohols , and to some extent of the acids , as contrasted with that of other liquids .
MOLECULAR VIscos[TY SPECIFIC MOLECULAR AREA AT THE BOILING-POINT .
( in dynes per sq .
centim. specific molecular area in sq .
centims. ) .
HOMOLOGUES .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR ICAL NATURE .
601 ( continued ) .
in chemical composition corresponds with an increase in molecular viscosity .
This increase is , however , far from being constant , even in the same series .
( 2 .
) the above exceptions , it is also apparent that the corresponding compound having the highest molecular weight has the highest ] ecular viscosity , and the differences between the members of two corresponding series are fairly constant .
( 3 .
) The relationships shown in the other tables are substantially of the same nature as those given by ) viscosity coefficients .
The comparisons which give the largest deviations from regularity contain those substances which have already been shown to exhibit a peculiar behaviour , namely , the alcohols , acids , propylene dibromide , ethylene dichloride , \amp ; c. In order to giye some idea of how far molecular viscosity at the oint is quantitatively connected with chemical nature , attempts were made by the method given in detail at a later stage to calculate the probable partial effects of the atoms on the molecular viscosity .
Values were also assigned to the effect of the iso grouping of atoms , the double linkage of carbon atoms , and the ring grouping .
The values thus obtained are given in the following table:\mdash ; DAMENTAL Viscosity Constanbs ( Molecular Viscosity at the Boiling-point .
) The main points to be considered in connection with the meaning to be attached to fundamental viscosity constants in general , may be introduced here .
As has already been stated , viscosity taken as a measure of the attractive BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
607 forces play between molecules .
Now the preceding tables , and more especially those given later , go to show that an increment of in chemical composition , or the substitution of an atom of chlorine , bromine , or iodine for an atom of hydrogen , brings about a definite change in the viscosity magnitudes .
It is therefore made evident that viscosity or intermolecular attraction is in reality a property of the atoms of which the molecules are composed .
But besides change in molecular weight , change in the mode of grouping of the same atoms also affects the values of the viscosity magnitudes .
The observations show that iso compounds have values differing from those of isomeric normal compounds ; ring compounds have not the values which by the study of straight chain compounds they might be expected to have ; compounds containing hydroxyl oxygen give values differing from those containing carbonyl oxygen .
The same atoms must therefore exert different effects when differently linked together .
That the effects of the atoms in one portion of the molecule need not be affected by change in the mode oflinkage of the atoms in another portion is proved by the fact that the effects of , of iodine , of bromine , etc. , are the same in normal and in iso compounds .
In the present state of the question it is impossible , however , to ascertain to what extent the individual effects of each atom are influenced by an alteration in the mode of grouping in a given portion of a molecule .
Hence the method adopted in deducing fundamental constants is to assume that certain atoms retain the same values under all conditions whilst the collective change in the values of those atoms which are affected by the mode oflinkage is , when possible , expressed either as a new constant the value of an iso linkage , a double linkage , etc.\mdash ; or by saying that a particular atom has assumed a new value , e.g. , carbonyl oxygen , hydroxyl oxygen , etc. In some cases the method of calculation may lead to the result that a negative constant is ascribed to a particular atom .
In deducing the values of carbon and hydrogen , for example , it is implied that in a group and in the molecuJe of a normal paraffin he individual effect of each atom of carbon or of hydrogen is the same .
The above easoning and the actual results show , however , that this is not the case .
The effects exerted by carbon and hydrogen in a group are different from those in a group .
Since this constitutive effect cannot be apportioned amongst the atoms concerned in it , the fundamental constant of an element may for this reason come out nega iv although the absolute effect exerted by any atom is doubtless positive .
For these reasons fundamental constants are to be regarded as ascertained magnitudes which are merely intended to indicate how far the observed results may be represented as the sum of partial values which are the same for all ubstances .
They have no reference to the possible behaviour of the elements when the free state ; they simply serve to show how far definite changes in chemical .
mposition correspond with definite changes in the viscosity magnitudes .
The comparisons of bhe observed molecular viscosities and those calculated by meaIl of the above fundamental constants are given in the following tables .
In the first , Table , are set out those compounds for which the agreement is fairl satisfactory .
With respect to the meant it must be borne in mind that errox incidental to the determination of the boiling-point , density , and thermal expansio1 as well as of viscosity , may affect the observed values .
In the second , Table , are placed compounds which give differences which are fa beyond the limits of the experimental errors involved .
MOLECULAR Viscosity at the Boiling-point .
TABLE A. WEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR MICAL NATURE .
609 ( continued ) .
* Calculated from the value of bromine in dibromides . .
\mdash ; A. 4 MOLECULAR Viscosity at the Boiling-point .
TABLE B. BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
611 1 .
It will be seen from the first table that , in the case of forty-five , the difference between the observed and calculated values rarely exceeds 5 per cent. Here molecular weight and chemical constitution exert effects upon the magnitude of the molecular viscosity which can be quantitatively expressed with moderate exactness .
In the case of the isomeric ketones and aromatic hydrocarbons the differences are in part due to constitutive influences which , as yet , on account of lack of data it is not possible to allow for in obtaining the calculated values .
2 .
In the second table are found those substances which give differences exceeding this 5 per cenb .
limit .
These be roughly classed as unsaturated hydrocarbons , polyhalogen compounds , formic and acetic acids , benzene , water , and the alcohols .
In cases the differences are the result of constitutive influences .
The same calculated value is used for ethylidene and ethylene dichloride .
The large difference given by the latter is the result of the difference in the structure of the two compounds .
The calculated values for the chlormethanes are obtained by means of value possessed by chlorine in monochlorides .
The differences are seen to increase as accumulates in the molecule , pointing to the conclusion , supported by other physico-chemical comparisons , that the effect produced on substituting hydrogen by halogen depends on the number of hydrogen atoms previously substituted .
In the value of carbon bisulphide , the value of sulphur in alkyl sulphides was employed .
The large difference may be attributed , in part at least , to the difference in the mode of linkage of sulphur in the bisulphide .
Benzene gives a large difference , probably for the reasons given when discussing the graphical representation of the results .
The calculated value of aldehyde is obtained in the same way as that of a ketone .
The difference obtained is , therefore , an indication of the generic difference in chemical constitution of the two classes of substances .
The calculated values of all the hydroxyl compounds given in the table are obtained by means of the constant for hydroxyl oxygen deduced from the higher fatty acids .
It will be seen that in the case of the lower acids , of water , and of all the alcohols but methyl alcohol , there is no indication of agreement .
For the lowest acid chemical constitution , as already mentioned , may in part be the cause of the difference , but for the other substances difference in molecular complexity at the boiling-point is doubtless the main factor in producing the large divergences above obtained .
As the toichiometric relationships exhibited by molecular viscosity at the boilingpoint are on the whole not very definite , we do not intend to further discuss the results given in the above tables .
( i12 MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. .
RODGER ON THE RELATIONS MOLECULAR VISCOSITY WORK SPECIFIC MOLECULAR VOLUME IN ERGS AT THE BOILING-POINT .
( in dynes per sq .
centim. specific molecular volume in cub. centims. ) HOMOLOGUES .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
613 Homologues ( continued ) .
MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. flODGER ON THE RELATIONS CORRESPONDING Compounds .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND HEIR C NATURE .
615 ISOLOGOUS Hydroc rbons .
BUIYL Alcohols and Ethyl Ether .
THE OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURb 617 AROMATIC Hydrocarbons .
Conclusions in reference to Molecutar Viscosity Work at the Boiling-point .
By means of the numbers given in the tables the following probable values for fundamental constants are deduced:\mdash ; FUNDAMENTAL Viscosity Constants ( Molecular Viscosity Work at the Boiling-point .
) In the following tables is giyen the of the observed numbers .
MLSSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE REiLATIONS substances are classified into two groups\mdash ; Table A and Table B\mdash ; as in th case of molecular viscosity , according as the differences are less or greater than per cent. MOLECULAR Viscosity Work at the Boiling-point .
TABLE A. TWEEN THE VISC0S1TY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
619 MOLECULAR Viscosity Work at the Boiling-point .
TABLE ( continued ) .
MESSRS .
T. L. AND J. W. RODGER ON THE ATlONS MOLEC , Viscosity Work at the Boiling-point .
TABLE B. The degree of agreement between the observed and calculated values of the molec ] viscosity work is practically the same as in the case of molecular viscosity , the same exceptions occur in the of hydroxy compounds , \amp ; c. BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
621 clusions relating to Molecular Viscosity and Molecular Viscosity at the Boiling-point .
On taking a general survey of the comparisons at the boiling-point , it evident that for the majority of the substances examined\mdash ; the paraffins and their monohalogen derivatives , the sulphides , the ketones , the oxides , and most of the acids and aromatic hydrocarbons\mdash ; molecular viscosity , and molecular viscosity work may , with moderate exactness , be quantitatively connected with chemical nature .
The substances\mdash ; unsaturated hydrocarbons , di- and polyhalogen compounds , formic acid , benzene , water , and the alcohols \mdash ; present marked exceptions to the foregoing Vularities .
Most of these substances have already been shown , both in the graphical and algebraical portions of this memoir , to be peculiar ; hydroxy compounds , and , in particular , the alcohols , exhibiting in all cases the most unced deviations from regularity .
B. COMPARISON 0F VISCOSITY MAGNITUDES THE C0RRESP0ND1NG MPERATUP .
Tables similar to those already given were constructed showing the various viscosity magnitudes at the corresponding temperature .
When satisfactory observed or calculated data could not be obtained , the criticai temperature was deduced by means of the formula of THORPE and RUCKER Jour .
Chem. is the absolute critical temperature , is the volume that unit-volume of liquid measured at occupies at From the values of the critical temperatures thus obtained , , the corresponding temperature on ordinary scale , was given by THORPE and RUCKER'S formula is inapplicable to the case of water .
To make the calculated critical temperature for water harmonise with the observed value , instead of being would require to be .
The alcohols in general give values of which are also larger than 2 by about 10 per cent. The critical data are too unsatisfactory to warrant us in laying an particular stress on the relationships obtained under this condition of comparison .
We think , therefore , that no useful purpose can be served by reproducing the tables .
Partial and imperfect as the available data are , the relationships however are similar to , even ifless definite than , those obtained at the boiling-point .
For a property like viscosity , which alters so rapidly with temperature , a corresponding temperature is certainly no better as a condition of comparison than the boiling-point .
COEFFICIENTS AT L0PE ( in dynes per sq .
centim. ) .
HOMOLOGUES .
TWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
625 nologues ( continued ) .
At this condition of comparison the effect which an increment of in chemical composition exerts on the magnitude of varies within much narrower limits than when the boiling-point is used as the temperature of comparison .
With the exception of the acids , which are still peculiar , and the dibromides , the effect in all cases is positive , and , in general , diminishes as the series is ascended .
The large differences which exist at the boiling-point between the lowest members of series have now disappeared .
The paraffins have no longer almost the same constants , but have values which vary regularly with the molecular weight .
With the exception of propionic acid , the acids and anhydrides , which at the boiling-point had values which differed considerably from each other , have now practically the same viscosity coefficients .
The alcohols , as already stated , cannot be compared at this particular value of the XDCCCXCIV .
slope .
This is sigllificant as indicating that even at this new condition of comparison the behaviour of the alcohols , as at the comparable temperatures already employed , is anomalous .
ORRESPONDING Compounds .
Corresponding iodides , bromides , chlorides , and acids now give constants which are closely related to one another .
The large discrepancies given at the boiling-point by the lowest acids have now disappeared , and in all cases the differences between corresponding members of two different series of compounds are much more nearly constant , the largest variations being given by the acids .
An iodide has , on the average , a coefficient which is 37 units greater than that of the corresponding bromide .
Practically , the same average difference , 38 , exists between corresponding bromides and chlorides .
Here , the difference in is strictly proportional to the difference in molecular weight .
The difference between an iodide and an acid , , on the average , though uniform , is not so large as that between an iodide and a bromide , , 37 , although the differences in the theoretical molecular weights are respectively 106 and 47 .
This indicates that in general is not a simple function of theoretical molecular weight .
Methyl alcohol , the only member of the alcohol series which could be included at slope .
, gives a value onsiderably below that of methyl iodide or formic acid , the difference being in the direction of the change in molecular weight but showing no proportionality .
Here , as with , the relationships are much more regular than at the -point .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY LIQUIDS AND MICAL N NORMAL Propyl and Allyl Compounds .
ETHYLENE and ylene Bromides .
Here again , is a decided regularity ; the coefficient of the propyl compounld is uniformly larger , and the difference to increase as the molecular weight the iodides exhibiting the smallest , and the hydrocarbons the largest differences .
In the case of ethylene and acetylene bromides , where the molecular weights are higher than in the case of the iodides , the difference for the loss of a double linkage and the addition of has become negative .
At the boiling-point ence was in no way comparable that of normal propyl and allyl compounds .
ISOLOGOUS Hydrocarbons .
On passing from pen , tan to amylene the viscosity rises by some 12 units .
When , however , by the loss of four hydrogen atoms the corresponding paraffin passes into isoprene or diallyl the viscosity falls , the fall increasing with the molecular weight .
Constitution here evidently comes into play .
An aromatic hydrocarbon coefficient is greater than of the corresponding ) by allount which 6 ' 28 MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RIBLATIONS increases with increase of molecular weight ; the differences now vary within much narrower limits than at the boiling-point .
SUBSTITUTION of Halogen for Hydrogen .
The conversion of a monobromide into a dibromide is accompanied by a mark rise in viscosity , which is less.the higher the molecular weight .
On the conversion of dichlormethane into the tri- and tetra-chlor compounds change is very .
As , however , the results for chloroform and carbon tetra .
chloride extrapolated , the small difference may be due to errors thus introduced .
COMPOUNDS differing by one Carbon Atom .
The differences here obtained are now far removed from one another , no doubt for bhe reason given in the case of these comparisons at the boiling-point .
ISOMERS .
NORMAL and Iso Compounds .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
629 Normal compounds have higher values than the corresponding iso-compounds .
The rence for the butyric acids may be the result of molecular complexity .
AROMATIC Hydrocarbons .
Of the four isomeric substituted benzenes , ortho-xylene has decidedly the largest coefficient , and para-xylene the lowest coefficient , whilst meta-xylene and ethyl benzene have intermediate and almost identical values .
ISOMERTC Ketones .
The isomeric ketones give identical ients , the effect of bei1lg tpparently inoperative , probably for the reason already given .
DICHLORETHANES .
The isomeric dichlorethanes give values which differ widely , the symmetrical compound being the more viscous .
b30 SSRS .
T. AND J. W. RODGER ON TH1 IONS VISCOSITY FICIEINTS AT SLOPE ( in dynes per sq .
centim. ) As already stated , it was impossible to compare all the liquids at the same slope .
previous comparisons made at the slope include all the liquids except bromine and the alcohols .
The next step was to choose another value of the slope so that these outstanding liquids might be included in the comparison .
In the case of the alcohols , the slope , even at the boiling-point , has a value which is larger than that given by many of the liquids at the lowest temperatures of observation .
therefore , in order that as many compounds as possible might be compared with the lcohols , the smallest possible of the slope at which the alcohols could be comhad to be chosen .
The value which satisfied this condition was , which to be the value possessed by isopropyl alcohol at its -point .
Besides the cohols , it was found that 3.3 of the liquids , which were compared at slope could be compared at this new value of the slope , and the first point to decide was whether the same relations existed between the magnitudes of the various viscosity con stants at this new value of the slope as we had established at the previous value .
This point was easily ascertained in the following On finding the value of the ratio , Viscosity coefficient at slope .
Viscosity coefficient at slope .
' a number was obtained which was practically the same for all the 33liquids The mean value of the ratio was ; the average divergence from the mean being036 , or about per cent. due allowance for experimental errors , and especially for imperfections in SLOTTE'S formula , the constancy of the ratio is satisfactory , as it shows tha't the relationships established between the viscosity coefficients at slope remain practically the same at slope , and indicates that the method of comparison is a general one , and is independent of the particular value of the slope at which the comparisons are made .
It is also noteworthy that the and water , the complexity of which is supposed to increase as temperature falls , give values of the ratio which do not differ more widely from the mean ratio than the values given by other types of substances such as the dibromides .
The values given by the alcohols bromine which , of course , could not be compared at slope given below:\mdash ; BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
631 In the case of the primary alcohols , the table shows that up to propyl alcohol a rise in molecular weight is accompanied by a fall in the visqosity coefficient , but for all other higher alcohols a rise in molecular weight is accompanied by an increase in the coefficient .
The alcohols , therefore , differ from most other where the value of is positive , and tends to diminish as the series is ascended .
Conclusions to Viscosity Coefficients at Equal Slope .
1 .
It is eyident , from the foregoing isons , that temperatures of equal slope tend to reyeal much more definite relationships between the values of the viscosity coefficients and the chemical nature of the substances than were obtained at the boiling-points .
2 .
In homologous series , with the exception of those of the alcohols , acids , dichlorides , the effect of on the value of the coefficient is positive and tends to diminish as the series is ascended .
3 .
Of corresponding compounds , the one of highest molecular weight has the highest coefficient .
4 .
Normal propyl compounds have slightly larger coefficients than the corresponding allyl compounds .
5 .
An iso compound has invariably a larger coefficient than a normal compound .
6 .
In the case of other isomers , the orientation of the molecule and branching of MESSRS .
T. Fi .
THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS the atomic chain influence the magnitudes of the coefficients .
Similar effects of constitution are also exhibited on comparing saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons , the variable effects produced by successive substitution of halogen for hydrogen .
7 .
alcohols , and to some extent the acids , still give results which are peculiar when compared with those of the other substances .
CULAR VISCOSITY SPECIFIC MOLECULAR AREA IN DYNES PER SQ .
CENTIM .
AT SLOPE ( in dynes per sq .
centim. specific molecular area in sq .
centims. ) HOMOLOGUES .
TWEEN THE OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL .
633 Homologues ( continued ) .
It is evident from the table that the effect of an increment of in chemical composition on the molecular viscosity is here much more definite than at the boihngpoint .
Although the numbers show that the effect apparently slowly diminishes as each homologous series is ascended , yet it may be taken as a first approximation that the effect is about the same in all the homologous series investigated .
The mean difference for is about 120 units , the largest differences from the mean being in the cases of the acids , the dibromides , and the anhydrides .
In the case of nides an unsymmetrical compound is compared with a compound , that the value for is probably ected by constitutive influences , and , as the anhydrides , the unsatisfactory character of the propionic anhydride may be the caus ' of the smallness of the difference .
It is significant that the differences given rous acids , although , are not very far removed from those given other series of homologues .
CORRESPONDING Compounds .
Here it is seen that an iodide has on the average a molecular viscosity which is about 127 units larger than that of the corresponding bromide .
A bromide a molecular viscosity which , on the average , is 115 units greater than that of the corresponding chloride , the average difference from this mean value being only some 3 units .
An iodide has , on the average , a moleculal viscosity which is 174 units greater than that of the corresponding acid .
Methyl alcohol has a molecular viscosity which is also considerably lower than that of methyl iodide .
It is , , evident that the corresponding compound of higher molecular weight has the higher molecular viscosity , and where two series of corresponding compounds , the fatty cids included , can be compared , the differences obtained are approximately equal .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
635 NORMAL Propvl and Allyl Compounds .
ETHYLENE and Acetylene Bromides .
It is evident that a normal propyl compound has a molecular viscosity which is , on he average , 41 units greater than that of the corresponding allyl compound .
It is urther indicative of the comparatively definite quantitative relations here exhibited hat the difference between the molecular viscosities of ethylene and acetylene )romides , which are related in the same way as a normal propyl compound is to an bllyl compound , is also 41 units .
Loss of hydrogen is always attended by a fall in molecular viscosity .
On comparing wo series of corresponding hydrocarbons , the differences , although not quite jonstant , vary within comparatively narrow limits ; in the case of the aromatic arbons and the paraffins , the differences vary in a regular way , and diminish with in molecular weight .
It is also evident that the removal in succession of two )ydrogen atoms from a saturated hydrocarbon brings about a variable decrement in riscosity .
MESSRS .
T. L. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RHiLATIONS SUBSTITUTION of Halogen for Hydrogen .
On converting a monobromide into the corresponding dibromide , the viscosity by all amounlt which is approximately constant and equal to 300 units .
If , however the hydrogen atoms present in the same molecule be substituted in succession chlorine , it is evident from the comparisons given that the effect diminishes as number of chlorine atolns in the molecule increases .
COMPOUNDS differing by a Carbon Atom .
The values given by the two comparisons may partly be due to the fact that the effect of the linkage of carbon atoms among themselves is different from that of a carbon atom to an oxygen atom , and partly to the effect of the molecular complexity of methyl alcohol .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
637 ISOMERS .
NORMAL and Iso Compounds .
With the exception of the butyric acids , which of those given above are probably the only liquids containing molecular aggregates , the normal compound has distinctly the higher molecular viscosity .
In the case of the halogen compounds , the differences diminish with the fall in molecular weight ; in the paraffins , however , there is no regularity in the variation of the differences .
It may thus be assumed , as a first approximation , that the average effect of the iso mode of grouping is constant and operates so as to diminish the molecular viscosity by about 21 units .
AROMATIC Hydrocarbons .
Of the four isomeric hydrocarbons , ortho-xylene has the largest , and para-xylene lowest molecular cosity .
Ethyl benzene and meta-xylene give identical which are almost the mean of those of ortho-and para-xylene .
DICHLORETHANES .
The symmetrical compound has here decidedly the larger value .
ISOMERIC Ketones .
Here the unsymmetrical compound , probably for the reason already given , has larger molecular viscosity .
Quantitative relations fairly definite in character are thus exhibited in the preceding tables between the magnitudes of the molecular viscosities .
The tables of ] ogous and corresponding compounds show that molecular exerts an approximately regular effect , and the comparisons of normal and iso pounds , and of propyl and allyl compounds , indicate that the effect of constitution also in some cases be quantitatively timated .
We have , therefore , attempted to ascertain if molecular viscosity can be as the sum of partial effects which may be ascribed to the atoms and to the atom linkage which occur in the molecule .
The details of the method of which is the same as that employed in the case of the comparisons at the point , are given in what follows .
METHOD DEDUCING THE FUNDAMENTAL VISCOSITY CONSTANTS ( MOLECULA ISCOSITY AT SLOPE ) .
Value of From the table of homologues the mean of the twenty-three values for the is 120 .
Neglecting signs , the average difference from the mean is 12 .
therefore assumed that BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND CHEMICAL NATURE .
639 Influence of the Iso grouping .
Neglecting , for reasons already given , the butyric acids , the six available comparions give 21 as the amount by which the molecular viscosity of a normal compound is eater than of the isomeric iso compound .
The mean difference from this value , eglecting signs , is about 3 .
It is therefore assumed that the value of the iso is Vatue of H.ydrogen .
On deducting the value of from the observed molecular viscosity of a normal paraffin , a value is obtained for the effect of On using the above measure of the effect of the iso mode of linkage , iso paraffins may also be included in the comparison .
The available data are as under : Neglecting signs , the average divergence from this value is 7 .
It is therefore assumed that of From the two equations follows , on the assumption that the effect of is additively composed of those of rbon and hydrogen , that the effect on the molecular viscosity of an atom of carbon ay be taken as SSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE BEhATION@ Influence of Double The four comparisons show that the molecular viscosity of a normal compound is 41 units larger than that of the corresponding allyl compound .
average rence from this mean value is less than 2 .
The value is xactly the as that brought about by the change of ethylene into acetylene bromide .
This corresponds with the addition of and the loss of a double linkage of atoms .
Consequently if we take the value of as 89 , we may assume that a double linkage of carbon atoms increases the molecular viscosity by 48 units .
The iso linkage of carbon atoms , as already seen , exercises an opposite effect the extent of 21 units .
Values of the logens .
Adopting the values , iso linkage , double linkage the values of the carbon-hydrogen " " rests\ldquo ; in the molecules of the various compounds may be calculated , and the atomic effects of the halogens may in be obtained ; the data are given in the following tables:\mdash ; VALUE of Iodine .
The value for methyl iodide , the lowest member of the series , varies so much the closely concordant numbers given by the other iodides that it is omitted in the mean .
With this omission , which will be referred to subsequently , the divergence from the mean is about 4 units .
TWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
641 VALUES of Bromine .
In monohalogen compounds bromine has thus the value of 372 , the mean divergence om this value being about 3 .
In dihalogen compounds , however , bromine would appear to have a slightly lower lue , viz. , 861 , with a mean divergence of 6 .
VALUES of Chlorine .
saturated as ( o unsaturated monohalogen compounds chlorine seems to the value 256 , the mean divergence being about 2 units .
or the two dihalogen compounds the number obtained is 244 ; from the trihalogen pound it is 224 , and from the tetrahalogen compound 206 ; the value which may be ascribed to chlorine becomes less and less as chlorine accumulates in the moleIn the unsaturated lalogen compound , using the ordinary values of and double linkage , the number obtained is 230 , which is nearer that deduced from roform than from tetrachloride , and is the same as the value ( 231 ) given thylidene chloride .
CCCXCIV . .
4 The values for the halogens obtained from monoderivatives are so related that value for bromine , 372 , is almost the mean of the values of chlorine and , 377 .
Values of Oxygen .
Carbonyl Oxygen.\mdash ; On deducting the values of from the observed viscosities of aldehyde and the ketones of the general formula , the ences correspond with values of carbonyl oxygen The average divergence from the mean is about 9 units .
The mean value no doubt affected by constitutive causes , as aldehyde is not strictly comparable the ketones , and isomeric ketones do not give identical molecular Moreover , acetone appears from surface-energy measurements to contain aggregates .
These effects are apparently small , however , and in a first mation may be ignored .
Hydroxyl Oxygen.\mdash ; On deducting from the observed molecular of the acids , values are obtained the joint effect of an atom of bonyl and an atom of hydroxyl oxygen in these compounds .
WEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
64.3 ormic acid , the initial member of the series , presents the greatest divergence the mean value , and the numbers on the whole are not so uniform as those en in previous comparisons , the average difference from the mean being 16 units .
probable that the cause of these deviations is to be sought in differences in the lecular complexity of the acids .
From the relations and it follows that the value of hydroxyl oxygen may be ken as Ether Ox.ygen.\mdash ; The study of several of the physical characters of substances , more ecially their .optical prties , has that an oxygen atom , when linked to carbon atoms , exercises an effect on the magnitude of a physical which is erent from that exerted when it is in the condition of carbonyl oxygen or hydroxyl ygen .
The number of compounds available to ascertain if such a difference exists the case of the viscosity constants is hardly sufficient to warrant .
any definite consion as to the absolute magnitude of the effect so exerted .
Using the values of and , and the observed numbers for acetic ) ydride and ether , the mean value is obtained for ether oxygen .
So far as the data , it would appear that er oxygen , or oxygen linked to two carbon atoms , which be represented as , has an extremely small value as compaled with that of oxygen in a carbonyl oup , or with that of hydroxyl oxygen as deduced from the acids .
If such differences are confirmed by more observations , viscosity will as one of the most useful properties in determining the constitution of oxygen mpounds .
The values obtained..for oxygen in different conditions Carbonyl oxygen Hydroxyl oxygen Ether oxygen . . . . .
It is , of course , to be remembered here that the value of as it is derived from the ids is no doubt affected by molecular complexity .
of Sulphur .
Only two compounds are available for the estimation of the atomic value of phur which is singly linked to two carbon atoms .
Influence of Ring-grouping .
HORSTMANN'S discussion of the specific ] ecular volumes of liquids seems to that in aromatic compounds the ring-grouping of atoms exerts a marked On the other hand , BRUHL concludes that , so far as refraction and dispersion stants go , there is no indication of this effect .
BmUHL assumes , however , that double linkages occur in the benzene nucleus .
The data to test this point in connection with the viscosity constants are scanty , and , further , four of the aromatic methyl toluenes\mdash ; isomers , each having a different viscosity magnitude .
Since the value of deduced from homologous aromatic hydrocarbons with the values given by other homologous series , in the present state of the it may be assumed that carbon and hydrogen have the same values in these pounds as they have in the others .
In the following table the " " rests\ldquo ; are from the previously found vatues for carbon and- hydrogen on the assumption the constitution is the same as in an open straight chain compound .
The in the last column represent the excess of the observed molecular viscosities over values thus calculated , and may be taken as measures of the effect of the grouping of atoms .
BETWEE THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
Probably the first three hydrocarbons alone are comparable with one another as the xylenes contain two side chains .
The general value is , however , almost the same as that deduced from the first three , as the meta-isomer gives the mean value , and the values of the ortho- and para-isomers lie to about the same extent on either side of the mean .
Making due allowance for constitutive effects , it is evident , therefore , that the peculiar structure of aromatic compounds exercises an approximately constant and a most marked effect on their molecular viscosities , which are larger by some 244 units than the amounts calculated in the way already indicated .
The calculated increase , which would be brought about by three double linkages , is 144 units , so that the observed differences have to be sought for in some additional structural effect which acts in the same sense as d.ouble linkage inasmuch as it increases the molecular viscosity .
The whole eflect may at present be termed that of the ring-grouping of atoms , no assumption being made as to whether or not double linkage participates in bringing it about .
Thiophen gives the value for the same kind of effect ; .
" " Rest Ring-grouping .
Thiophen 699 548 151. .
The effect produced by two double linkages is 96 .
The fundamental constants thus obtained given below .
FUNDAMENTAL Viscosity Constants .
( hIolecular Viscosity at Slope ) The following tables show the numbers calculated by means of these ether with those actually observed:\mdash ; MOLECULAR Viscosity at Slope ETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
647 MOLECULAR Viscosity at Slope continued ) .
The fifty-one compounds named in the above table give an average divergence from the calculated values of about one per cent. per cent It is also significant that the largest differences are given by methyl iodide , acetone , aldehyde , and formic acid , which are all the initial members of homologous series .
The large difference iven by propionic anhydride , as already indicated , is probably due to impurity .
In the following table are given the observed values of those substances which uld not be included in deducing the fundamental constants and the values caIculated these substances after making certain assumptions as to their structure .
rplhe calculated value for amylene is obtained by assuming that an iso grouping a double linkage occur in the moIecule .
If no iso group be assumed to exist , calculated value is 648 , which is considerably nearer that found .
According Dr. PERKIN , however , the sample is isoamylene .
The values for the chlormethanes are calculated from the values of carbon hydrogen , and the value of chlorine in monochlorides .
The comparison is given order to show that as chlorine accumulates in the molecule the observed differ more and more from those calculated in this manner .
In a similar way for carbon dichloride , calculated on the assumption that a double linkage in the molecule , is also far in excess of the observe value .
The observed value ethylidene chloride is compared with that calculated for ethylene chloride ; difference is due to the difference in the constitution of the two isomers .
In calculating the value for carbon bisulphide , the vaIue possessed by singly-linked sulphur in the alkyl sulphides has been used .
difference is , no doubt , due to altered condition of sulphur in the bisulphide .
The values of methyl alcohol and water are calculated by means of the hydroxyl oxygen as deduced from the acids .
It is evident , especially in the case water , that the observed numbers differ widely from alculated in this way .
As similar relationships are given by these substances when the values of molecular viscosity work are compared , their behaviour will be discussed more at a later stage .
MOLECULAR VISCOSITY AT SLOPB ( in dynes per sq .
centim. specific molecular area in sq .
centims. ) On finding the ratios of the molecular viscosities at the two slopes , a practically constant number was obtained as in the case of the coefficients .
Its oean value was , the average difference being or THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS .
AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
649 For this reason.it was assumed that the fundamental constants which were at slope , if increaSed in the ratio of 1 : , would serve .
the of molecular viscosities at slope .
This was the only course which be taken in order to deduce fundamental constants , as the number of liquids too small to enable them to be obtained in the manner already indicated .
damental constants had to be deduced in order that alcohols might be compared the other liquids .
The following are the values of the atomic constants at slope 87 calculated from the values at slope , on the assumption that at the larger slope is times that at the smaller .
FUNDAMENTAL Viscosity Constants ( Molecular Viscosity at Slope ) .
following table gives the comparison of the observed values with those ulated from the above fundamental constants:\mdash ; SSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RBhAnIoNs MOLECULAR Viscosity at Slope .
In the above table the agreement of calculated and observed values is the same as it was at the smaller slope , the mean percentage differen being The largest differences , as at the smaller slope , are given by the acids and anhydride .
In the following table those liquids are compared which were employed in deducing the fundamental constants .
The calculated values are in the same way as already indicated ab slope BETWEEN THH } VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
651 The behaviour of these substances is substantially what it was at the smaller slope , here the differences between the observed and calculated numbers were respectively , and The identical values given for the differences in the case of water are especially noteworthy , as the molecular complexity of water is supposed to alter as the temperature ffils .
It has already been shown that the molecular viscosities of the acids\mdash ; which , like water , are also supposed to contain molecular aggregates\mdash ; are related to those of the other liquids in practically the same way at the two slopes .
These points are of the highest importance in justifying the use of temperatures of equal slope as temperaures of comparison .
For although the temperatures of slope , and thus the molecular viscosity corresponding with these temperatures , will be affected by the existence of molecular aggregates , yet the above facts indicate that the relationships obtained at any one value of the slope are general , and will be the same , no matter at what slope the comparisons are made .
Bromine the Atcohots .
The comparison of the observed values for bromine and the alcohols with those oalculated from the preceding fundamental constants , which were entirely deduced \amp ; om the molecular viscosities of the other , is given in the table .
MESSRS .
T. ] .
THORPE XND J. W. RODGER ON THN The calculated value for bromine is deduced from the dibromides , and its with the observed value is satisfactory .
In the case of the alcohols , however at once evident that all trace of agreement between calculated and observed-values disappeared .
The values of the alcobols , like that for water , are calculated by of the constant for hydroxyl oxygen as derived from the acids .
The calcula.ted for a tertiary alcohol is obtained on the assumption two iso linkages occur in molecule .
In the case of the normal primary alcohols the first diflerence is positive , all the others are ative , and increase as the series is ascended .
It is also notice that an iso- or secondary isomer , gives a larger difference than the normal isomer , a tertiary isomer ' gives the largest difference of the isomers .
It is thus that there is a regularity in the magnitude of the deviations .
Allyl alcohol exhibits a comparatively large negative difference .
As the behaviour of the.alcohols of the same nature with regard to the molecular viscosity work , we defer its discussion till a later stage .
Concl usions relating to Molecular viscosity at Equal Slope . .
The tables indicate that at equal slope molecular viscosity for the great of the substances can be calculated from fundamental constants which express only the partial effects of the atoms existing in the molecule , but also those du .
different modes of atomic arrangement .
The large effects which can be attributed to the ring-grouping of atoms , to iso linkage , to double linkage , and to changes in the condition of oxygen in compounds , as well as the smaller due to the accumulation of an atom halogen in a molecule , make evident the quantitative influence of constitution .
2 .
Of the remaining substances , the chlormethanes , tetrachlorethylene , ethylid ride , and carbon bisulphide , give deviations from the , calculated values on of constitutive influences , which for lack of sufficient data can not , as yet , quantitatively expressed , and which are not allowed for in deducing the fundameo constants .
3 .
The alcohols and water give no agreement with the calculated values .
in which the deviations vary indicates , in the case of the alcohols , that the factor.is related to their chemical nature .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL .
653 MOLECULAR VISCOSITY WORK SPECIFIC MOLECULAR VOLUME AT SLOPE in dynes per square centim. specific molecular volume-in cub. centims. ) HOMOLOGUES .
MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE REbATIONS Homologues ( continued ) .
It is evident from the above table that in all homologous series exerts effect on the molecular viscosity-work which is approximately constant and is 80 units , although , as in the case of molecular viscosity , there is a tendency for value to diminish as the series is ascended .
BETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
655 CORRESPONDING Compounds .
The compound of higher molecular weight has invariably the higher molecular iscosity work .
It is evident also that the same change in chemical nature correonds approximately with the same change in molecular viscosity work .
The value for an iodide is about 70 units greater thau that for a bromide , and the alue for a bromide is about 60 units greater than that for a chloride .
The value for an iodide is greater by about 102 units than that for an acid , and methyl iodide has a value greater by some 130 units than that for methyl alcohol .
NORMAL Propyl and Allyl Compounds .
ETHYLENE and Acetylene Bromides .
five comparisons @how that the loss of 2 atoms of hydrogen and the gain of a double linkage correspond to a definite change in molecular viscosity of some 29 units .
ISOLOGOUS Hydrocarbons .
Loss of hydrogen is accompanied by a fall in the value of the molecular work .
A benzene hydrocarbon has a value which is invariably lower by 100 units than that of the normal paraffin containing the same ber of carbon The values for isoprene and diallyl are some 52 units lower than those of the sponding paraffins , and that of iso-amylene is som9 units lower than that of pentane .
It is noteworthy that these numbers , 100 , 52 , and 21 are , in the same although not strictly proportional to , the corresponding differences in chemical sition , viz. , , lmd SUBSTITUTION of Halogen for The mean increase in molecular viscosity for the change of into a dibromide is 174 : the however , tends to become greater the the molecular weight .
As in the case of molecular viscosity the effect of substituting by Cl in a methane is smaller the larger the amount of chlorine in the molecule .
THE yISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
657 COMPOUNDS Differing by a Carbon Atom .
As in the of molecular viscosity , the different values given by the comparisons ay be partly due to the fact that the addition of a carbon atom to form the group : exerts a different effect from that produced when the carbon atom added rms the group , and partly to the presence of molecular aggregates in the ethyl alcohol .
ISOMERS .
NORMAL and Iso compounds .
With exception of the butyric acids , which are anomalous , probably for the ason already given , the normal compound has always the higher viscosity , the verage difference being about 8 units .
It is evident , however , that in the same mily of compounds the difference tends to rise with the molecular weight .
AROMATIC Hydrocarbons .
in the case of molecular viscosity , ortho-xylene has.the largest value and paraCCCXOIV .
xylene the smallest ; meta-xylene and ethyl benzene have practically the and this is almost the mean of those of ortho- and para-xylene .
DICHLORETHANES .
The symmetrical compound has , as before , larger value .
ISOMERIC Ketones .
Probably for the reason already given , the unsymmetrical compound has the value .
It will be apparent from these tables that the relationships thus established definite as those given by the molecular viscosities of the substances , and justify attempt to calculate atomic constants which is given in detail in what follows .
method is the same as that used in the case of molecular viscosity .
METHOD 0F DEDUCING THE FUNDAMENTAL VISCOSITY CONSTANTS VISCOSITY WORK AT SLOPE ) .
Value of The mean of the twenty-three available for given in the table of logues is practically 80 and , neglecting signs , the average divergence the mean is 5 .
Hence it is assumed that Influence of the Iso grouping .
Excluding the butyric aoids , for the reason already given , all the in showing that a normal ompound has a higher value than an iso WEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR MICAL N age difference being 8 , from which the mean divergence , neglecting signs , is 3 .
effect of introducing the iso arrangement of two carbon atoms iuto a straight compound is thus taken to be Value of Hydrogen .
The data used in deducing the value of are summarised below:\mdash ; Neglecting signs , the average divergence from the mean is less than 3 .
Value of Carbon .
Since and , it may be taken that Influence of a Double Linkage .
The four comparisons of normal propy ] and allyl compounds show that the occurof a double linkage and the loss of two hydrogen atoms lower the moleculal scosity work by 27 units , the average divergence about 1 unit .
The same nge in a substance like ethylene bromide affects its molecular viscosity work to out the same extent .
follows , therefore , since the value of is , that the value of a double age is \mdash ; 95 .
Values of the Halogens .
dopting the values , , iso grouping , double datn available for calculating the atomic constants of the halogens collected tables given SSRS . .
THORPh ' AND J. W. RODGER ON THE VALUE of Iodine .
average divergence from the mean is less than 4 .
VALUES of Bromine .
In monohalogen compounds bromine has the value 151 , the average being less than 4 .
In dibromides the value for bromine is , with an average difference than 4 .
value is moSt the same as that in monobromides , but the small probably real , as comparisons of molecular viscosity , and also of chlorine \amp ; c. , serve to show that in dihalogen compounds the halogen has a lower in monohalogen compounds .
In monohalogen compoumds the value of chlorine by the method of calculation opted is 89 , and in carbon tetrachloride is 64 .
It is thus apparent , as far as the data go , thab as cumulates in a lecule its value becomes less and less , the values obtained being In monochlorides , 89 .
In trichlorides , 71 .
In dichlorides , 82 .
In tetrachlorides , 64 .
In the unsaturated compound , , chlorine appears to have about the lue as in chloroform and in ethylidene chloride ( 76 ) .
The mean of the values for iodine and chlorine in monohalogen compounds is 153 , ich is almost identical with that obtained for bromine , viz. , 151 .
of Oxygen .
Carbonyl Oxygen.\mdash ; On deducting , as before , from the observed for ehyde and the ketones , values are obtained Methyl ethyl ketone and methyl propyl ketone give almost the same value carbonyl oxygen ; the value of diethyl ketone , on making allowance for the constitution , also indicates that the value of is about \mdash ; 19 .
The values for obtained from dimethyl ketone , the initial member of the which from surface-energy measurements appears to contain molecular and aldehyde , which , of course , has a different constitution from that of the are not included in the adopted mean .
These two substances will be referred to later .
It is assumed that the probable value for carbonyl oxygen is Hydrox.yl Oxygen.\mdash ; On deducting the values of from the observed for the fatty acids , the differences obtained correspond with the joint effect atom of carbonyl and an atom of hydroxyl oxygen OO .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
6(i3 average divergence from the mean is less than 4 .
The percentage variation however , than for most of the other atomic constants .
The value is affected by the complexity of the acids .
Taking and it follows that in the , and , it follows that in the acids Bther Oxygen .
Using the precedin values of , and , the observed numbers acetic anhydride and ether respectively 44 and 42 as values for ether oxygen ; such scanty data are to hand it is therefore probable that The mean values thus obtained for oxygen in different conditions are Value of The two comparisons available for obtaining values for singly-linked sulphur given below : \mdash ; On calculating values for the molecular viscosity work of the aromatic hydrocarbons the same way as has been described when deaIing with molecular viscosity , the given in the subjoined table , representing the effect of the ring-grouping , Probably the first three hydrocarbons are alone strictly comparable , as contain two side chains .
The mean of all the differences is , however , same as that deduced from the first three .
The average difference from the in the case of the xylenes is due to constitutive influences , is only It is thus evident that the rjng-grouping of atoms exerts a definite and fluence on the magnitude of the molecular viscosity work .
If it is assumed that three double linkages occur in benzene , the differences be reduced to units , so that the original rence is in the same sense as that which would be by double linkage , but evidently it can not be explained on the assumption double linkages alone produce it .
As in the case of aromatic hydrocarbons the calculated value for largely in excess of that observed : Thiophen Difference , 294 .
The value of the effect of two double linkages is 190 .
so that here also impossible to attribute the observed difference to the double linkage of carbon alone .
values thus obtained for the fundamental constants are summarized in following table:\mdash ; FUNDAMENTAL Viscosity Constants ( Molecular Viscosity Work at Slope THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIB CHEMICAL NATURE .
665 parison of the observed values of the molecular viscosity work wit , those by means of the above fundamental constants is given in the following MOLECULAR Viscosity Work at Slope MOLECULAR Viscosity Work at Slope .
The average difference between the observed and calculated numbers given above compounds is less than 1 per cent. ; in one or two cases , as the isomeric and isomeric xylenes , the differeilces are partly due to effects of constitution ignored in obtaining .
the calculated values .
Several compounds are worthy of special discussion , and are considered follows .
Isoprene.\mdash ; The calculated value for isoprene is deduced on the assumption a straight chain compound containing two double linkages .
Of the-five formulae for isoprene ( see TILDEN , 'Proc .
Birmingham Phil. Soc vol. 8 , contains , in addition to the double linkages , an iso linkage of carbon atoms. .
linkage occurred in the chain the calculated value for the molecular would be reduced to 270 , and the difference between the observed and values raised to 14 units .
or 5 per cent. Viscosity erva !
therefore view which is indicated by chemical methods , that no iso linkage THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
667 ecule .
It is noteworthy that the difference between the values of the molecular osity work of diallyl and isoprene is 72 , a number which is lower than the mean for a difference in composition corresponding to , viz. , 80 .
If diallyl be esented as above small difference may be taken to indicate that isoprene is not a true 1ologue of diallyl , and probably , therefore , that the formula for isoprene which most resembles the formula for diallyl , viz. , : not the correct formula .
The conclusions which follow from the viscosity of taken in conjunction with the fact that isoprene yields acetic acid as an idation product , point to .
CH : : the most probable formula for this hydrocarbon .
Methyl Iodide.\mdash ; The difference between the theoretical and calcuIated values for thyl iodide is considerably above the average .
This is no doubt due to the fact that methyl iodide is a substituted methane ; it is , deed , the only monocarbon compound given in the table ; in all the other iodides dine has been introduced into a methyl group .
( Compare what ] with regard carbon tetrachloride , which is also a monocarbon compound .
) Fatty Acids.\mdash ; As has already been stated , the acids most probably contain aggregates at the temperatures of comparison .
The fairly regular values by the normal acids for the effect of and indicate , however , that at peratures of equal slope the extent of the molecular .aggregation if not quite the is not very different for the various liquids .
Isobutyric acid has probably a slightly different molecular complexity at equal from that of the corresponding normal acid .
The same result , indeed , follows surface-energy observations .
This is no doubt the reason why in all comparisons which this iso acid enters it gives values which appear more or less anomalous compared with those given by non-associated liquids or by liquids like the acids , which are probably of about the same degree of association at equal omeric Aromatic Hydrocarbons.\mdash ; The calculated value is the same for all the pounds , and is deduced from the values of carbon , hydrogen , and the effect of the -grouping .
thyl benzene and meta-xylene give observed values which are identical with those whereas ortho-xylene gives a number which is as far above the calculated value as that of para-xylene is below it .
The differences give a variation in constitution of these substances .
In the llowing table comparison of the molecular viscosity work and several other physical these isomers:\mdash ; As ards the metameric xylenes , except in the case of magnetic rotation , the ences are of the same sign ; this , of course , is the result of the fact that the isomer has either the largest value , and the meta compound the smallest vice .
The magnetic rotation of the meta isomer is exceptional , and is smaller than that of the para isomer .
It is also invariably the case that the ence between the values of the ortho- and meta isomers is larger than the between the meta- and para isomers .
The relation in which the magnitude of the value for ethyl benzene stands of the other compounds varies with the particular property dealt with .
The difference given in the table is that between ethyl benzene and ffom the magnitude and sign of this difference as compared with those differences it is evident that , in the case of molecular viscosity work , perature , and specific molecular volume , the value for ethyl benzene is between those of ortho-and meta-xylenes .
* ALTSCHUL , ' Zeib .
fur physik , Chemie , ' 11 , 577 .
LANDOLT and JAHN , ' Zeit , fur physik .
Chemie , ' 10 , SCHoNROCK , ' .
fur physik .
Chemie , ' 11 , 753 .
\ldquo ; TWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
669 the case of critical pressure and magnetic rotation ethyl benzene has the largest , in the case of boiling-point and molecular refraction the smallest , value of all the .
The relations between the magnitudes of the viscosity constants of these tances is thus in harmony with their other physical properties .
what follows the observed values of substances which are not included in the eding table , and which were not employed in deducing the fundamental constants , compared with the values given by the other substances .
mylene.\mdash ; Assuming that the substance employed is a straight chain compound taining one double linkage , the calculated value is Difference 2 .
the value found is Dr. PERKIN'S authority , however , the sample is tri-methyl ethylene , and if , in ition to a double linkage , an iso linkage be taken to exist in the molecule , the ulated value is modified to 297 , and the difference raised to 10 , or about 3 per This difference is somewhat greater than those usually found in the preceding le , and it is noteworthy that Dr. PERKIN found that the magnetic rotation of .
this ple was anomalous compare Journ. Chem. 1884 ) .
It may also be pointed out that this substance is the only ore examined in which iso linkage is associated with a double linked carbon atom ; of all the substances vestigated by us it alone contains the group The same remarks apply in the case of molecular viscosity .
Chlormethanes.\mdash ; In deducing the values of the fundamental constants it has been ablished that if the values of carbon and hydrogen be taket ] as constant , the value the halogen in a dihalogen compound is invariably lower than the value in a monocompound .
From the values rded by the chlormethanes it would appear that a similar still takes place in the case of tri- and tetra-halogen compounds .
In to indicate this change in the value of the halogen , we give in the following the observed values of the chlormethanes and the values calculated by using the possessed by chlorine in monochlorides .
As the number of hydrogen atoms dispIaced by the halogen increases , the augment at an increasing rate .
If the values of carbon and hydrogen be taken as normal in these introducing the value of chlorine obtained from monohalogen compounds the nnmbers represent the respective effects on the molecular viscosity work of and 4 atoms of chlorine when linked to one carbon atom .
It is instructive to note that the magnitudes of several of the other properties of these and similar substances exhibit the same kind of From inations of the heats of formation of halogen compounds at cox volume , THOMSEN concludes that the respective thermal effects which may be 1 buted to the fixation of different numbers of chlorine atoms in the same molecu } as follows:\mdash ; Here , cisely as in the case of molecular viscosity work , the differences at a decreasing rate .
The numbers given in the following table indicate also a parallelism betv magnitudes of the boiling-points , specific molecular volumes , and magnetic powers of the chlormethanes and the values of the molecular viscosity work .
Critical temperatures might also be included in the comparisons , but the the higher ch]orinated compounds , especially that of methylene chloride , are worthy , as the observations were made over heated mercury , whereby the are partially decomposed .
The value for the molecular viscosity work is calculated from that of monohalogen compounds .
all cases the differences are not constant , but alter progressively as substitution on ; and for all the properties but specific molecular volume the differences diminish .
there properties , which are less influenced by differences in constitution than those tioned above , also give indication of effects of a similar kind .
Observations on cular refraction show , although not so definitely as the above properties , that as ement , or radicle , accumulates in a molecule the effect of each increment is not same ( Comp. BRoHL , 'Zeit . .
physik .
Chem 7 , 178 ; ARMSTRONG , 'Proc .
Chem. 1892-3 , 57 ) .
the case of specific molecular volume and molecular refraction , unlike what takes in the case of molecular viscosity work , the value of chlorine , say , increases as ssive atoms are linked to the same carbon atom .
This difference is significant , cosity and boilin-point are doubtless to be referred to inter-molecular effects , eas specific molecular volume , and , as there is reason to believe , refraction as well , be associated with intra-molecular effects ( compare p. 549 ) .
surface tensions of two only of the chlormethanes , viz. , chloroform and carbon chloride , have been determined by SCHIFF .
He has shown that , according to his od of treating surface tension measured at the boiling-point , the value of chlorine loroform is the same as in carbon tetrachloride .
It would thus appear that , as ds the surface tensions of these two substances , the effect of the accumulation of in in the molecule is inoperative .
values for the molecular viscosity work of the chlormethanes are thus in ony with those of all other properties which are largely affected by constitutive influences , and conform to the general rule that the extent to which the of a property is affected by the displacement of one atom of hydrogen by one halogen is not constant , but varies in a regular way according as the first , third , or fourth hydrogen atom is replaced .
\mdash ; The molecular viscosity work of ethylene chloride is greater than that of ethylidene chloride .
With the exception of heats of combust , ion , where it has to be noted that takes no part in the chemical change , the maguitudes of several of the other properties of these metamers exhibit similar differences , as the table shows:\mdash ; Here again the change in specific molecular volume and molecular refractiom the opposite sense to the change in the other properties .
The cause of these remarkable differences is no doubt to be traoed to the the effect of introducing chlorine in place of hydrogen into ethane varies it is the first , second , or third atom of chlorine which is united to the same atom .
Thus the effect of substituting hydrogen by chlorine in the , is doubtless diffel.ent in each case .
Moreover , it is also conceivable that the effect may depend on the nature of whether it be , or .
To test these two points it necessary to investigate as many of the various chlormethanes as possible .
This has only been done in the case of specific molecular volumes , and here .
clearly point to the conclusion that if we start with ethyl chloride the nature inoperative , and thab the effect of introducing Cl into ethyl chloride , or its derivatives , simply depends on whether it is the first , second , or third which has been into a particular methyl group .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHFMICAL NATURE .
673 the value for ethyl chloride calculated by KOPP from PIERRE'S values for its expansion , and the values obtained by STAEDEL , the following are the data serve to establish the foregoing conclusion:\mdash ; the effect of ng chlorine , as in the case of the chlormethanes , is according as the first , second , or third hydrogen atom in the original methyl is replaced by the chlorine .
cause of the difference between the specific molecular volumes of ethylene ride and ethylidene chloride is to be sought for in the fact that in the former stitution has taken place in two methyl groups , whereas in the latter it has only en place in one methyl group .
There is no doubt that the difference in the magnies of the viscosity and other physical properties is to be ascribed to the same fact .
ether the magnitude of the effect of substituting chlorine in the case of these perties depends also on the nature of , i.e. , on the halogen contents of the other thyl group , can best be decided by investigations similar to those of STAEDEL .
ere is indication , however , that this effect is operative in the case of viscosity , as ars that dihalogen derivatives of ethane give a smaller value the atomic stant of the halogen than monohalogen compounds .
If the effect of the nature were inoperative , the compound should yield the same value for orine as , for in each case the first hydrogen atom in a methyl group alolle been replaced .
Indeed , it may be the case that specific molecular volume affected the same way .
The volume-change in passing from ethane itself , , to ethyl chloride , , may perhaps differ the change uced in passing from .
to .
This point can only be when the specific molecular volume of ethane is determined .
rom a study of the chlorethanes and chlormethanes it is thus evident that , as in as of specific molecular volume , the magnitude of the effect which is exerted on molecular viscosity work when chlorine is united to carbon , hydrogen being tIled , depends on whether the first , second , or third hydrogen atom is replaced .
Urachlorethylene.\mdash ; The mean value of chlorine in tetrachlorethyler ) This value is almost the same as the value of chlorine in viz. , 76 .
It is probable , therefore , that in substituting hydrogen by chlorine in same or similar variations take place , as in the case of ethane ; for on and the first and second hydrogen atoms attached to a given carbon at , om have substituted , and the above numbers show that the mean value of the chlonne the same in both cases .
The following table contains the values of chlorine calculated from the viscosity work of the chlorine compounds examined :\mdash ; It will be seen in conformity with the conclusions already stated increases the value of chlorine always diminishes .
It is also noticeable that is the same , the value of chlorine varies slightly with the series to substance belongs .
This is again evidence of the fact already mentioned substituting hydrogen in a methyl group , the effect also depends upon the the radicle to which the group is attached .
On comparing the differences between the specific molecular volumes of belonging to the above series a similar variation is noticeable , as is seen following table : \mdash ; THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURF .
675 effect of introducing chlorine increases as increases , and , remaining the it , is greatest in an ethylene compound and least in a methane compound .
Here , always the case , the direction of the change in specific molecular volume is the of that exhibited in the case of molecular viscosity work .
evident that the condition of chlorine in carbon tetrachloride is different from in orethylene .
Indeed , is hardly comparable with the other ances where substitution in mebhyl groups is considered .
comparing the physical properties of these two substances with those of pounds which are related in the same way so far as chemical composition goes , in cases , as the following table shows , the behaviour of these chlorine compounds is uliar .
he peculiarity is doubtless to be attributed to the different conditions of chlorine in two compounds , a difference which is ignored when the compounds are simply rded as differing in chemical nature by an atom of carbon and a double linkage .
SSRS .
T. AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONg differences ) the magnitudes of the property of the two comI)ounds never in hal .
money with the fairly concordant differences other ) airs of compounds , members of which differ in composition by and double linkago .
and already stated , the observed values of these not in , the fundamental constants .
Using tho , and , the observed and calculated numbers large difference in the case of aldehyde points to the difference in constitul the ketones , as the value of oxygen used in obtaining that of ketonic oxygen .
The difference is to be ascribed to ficct luos have to be given to carbonyl in groups and values to be given to oxygen in the groups ( hydroxyl oxygen ) RO .
R ( ether oxygen ) .
A study of other would havcl to be undertaken to decide this point .
The large observed ncutone what difficult to explain on purely chemical grounds .
It is tho symtnotry of the molecule , ] the evidence is somewhat fttctory .
Tlte symmetrical compound Et .
.Et .
gives an observed value 'thnn that obtained by calculation ; possibly , as already mentioned , racter of the diethyl ketone may affected the result .
On comparing and ethylidenc chlorides it been seen that the symmetricnl compound tho ical compound just cetonle appears to differ from liko Me .
CO.Et .
and Me .
CO. ; the symmetrical compounds having the .
The ost probable cause of the peculiar behaviour of acetone is , by surface-energy surements , which point to the conclusion contains molecular ) regates , whereas methyl propyl ketone .
and higher gues of acetone , do not .
( RANSAY and SHIELDS , 100 .
Bisulphide .
calculated value for carbon bisulphide , using the -linked sulphur , is 436 .
The observed value is 241 .
It is evident , however , that in carbon bisulphide we are dealing with ICTWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR NATURE .
677 phur , which , employing the ordinary values for carbon and hydrogen , apparently thq value The values thus obtained for sulphur are related to one another in a similar way to ose already given for ether oxygen carbonyl oxygen .
BRUHL arrives at corresponding values in the case of oxygen from a study of molelar refraction ; his numbers are given in the last column of the above table .
In nformity with what has already been said , the difference in the case of molecular fraction is negative , while in the case of viscosity it is positive .
The observed value for water is 55 .
The calculated value , using the value for hydroxyl oxygen , and the ordinary value hydrogen , is 30 , so that the observed number is twice as large as that calculated this way .
Having regard to the general physical behaviour of liquid water as dicating the existence of molecular aggregates , and also to the mode in which the ndamental constants were deduced , this difference is what might have been anticipated .
value for hydroxyl oxygen was deduced from the observed numbers given by the ids on the assumption that in these liquids , and had the same values as in ply constituted liquids .
Seeing , however , that the acids contain molecular gregates , the value of wiIl be affected by this influence and cannot , therefore , expected to apply to liquids containing molecular aggregates which differ in plexity from those of the acids .
The large differerlce obtained above may , in the main , be attributed to the fact that equal slope the complexity of water is different from that of the acids , a conclusion is supported by surface-energy observations .
The fact also that in the simple molecule OH is linked to hydrogen and not to an unsaturated " " rest\ldquo ; as in simple molecule of an acid may also exert some effect .
MOLECULAR VISCOSITY W0RK AT SLOPE in dynes per sq .
centim. specific molecular volume in cub. oentims .
In order to compare the alcohols with the other liquids , and to test comparisons at slope still held at different values of the slope , the of the molecular viscosity work were ascertained at slope .
The choosing this particular value has already been given .
On finding values of the ratio for as many substances as could be compared at the two slopes , numbers which practically the same were obtained ; the mean value of the ratio be.ing an average divergence of 034 , or per cent. As the number of liquids was insufficient to admit of an independent of the fundamental constants , from the constancy of the above ratio it was that the fundamental constants obtained at slope , if multiplied by apply at slope ; the values thus obtained are given below .
FuNDAMENTA .
L Viscosity Constants ( Molecular Viscosity work at Slope The comparison of the observed numbers with those calculated by above constants is given in the following table:\mdash ; ETWEEN THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUI AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
679 MOLECULAR Viscosity-work at Slope In the above tables the agreement between observed and calculated values is prac- ally the same as at the smaller slope ; the mean percentage difference is It is noticeable that in the case of the dibromides the differences are iformly larger than in the case of the other Iiquids .
It is also evident that although the relations between the isomeric chlorethanes are the same as at the slope , the values of the isomeric aromatic hydrocar not arrange themselves in the same order .
Of the isomeric xylenes the orthohas still the largest molecular scosity work , but para-xylene bas now a value is slightly larger than that of meta-xylene .
The value for ethyl benzene is no intermediate to that of ortho-and , but is the greatest of all the given by the four isomers .
The numbers are now in the same order as the rotations of the substances .
Whether these small variations in the relative tudes of the of the molecular viscosity work are real , or merely the imperfections in formula , cannot at present be definitely decided .
The halogen compounds , and water , which are not included in the preceding give values which are related to those of the other co1npounds in the same way slope .
This is seen in the following table , where the observed values halogen compounds at the two different slopes are compared with the values by using the value of chlorine in monochlorides .
The calculated value for obtained from the value of hydroxyl oxygen deduced from th acids .
From the agreement between the magnitudes of the percentage differences at the two slopes , it is evident that the peculiarities exhibited by these the smaller slope still persist at the large slope , and are thus independent of the slope at which the comparisons are made .
The discussion of the these substances already given at slope is thus applicable to the values As already pointed out , the agreement of the differences in the case of water behaviour of the fatty acids at the widely separated temperatures of the two indicate that even in the case of liquids such as these which contain aggregates , the relationships obtained are also independent of the particular the slope at which the comparisons are made .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS .
AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATU R. 681 Bromine and the Alcohols .
the following table the observed values of bromine and the alcohols are pared with the values calculated from the fundamental constants , which it must remembered have been exclusively deduced from observations on the other liquids .
romine.\mdash ; The calculated number for bromine is deduced from the dibromides .
is evident that the value calculated in this way differs considerably ffom that of bromine .
The divergence is much greater than in the case of molecular osity .
The A lcohols .
results given by the alcohols show that the behaviour of this series of subces is peculiar at this as at other conditions of comparison .
The large differences even the calculated and observed vahles prove that the fundamental tants served for calculating the values of the other substances do not apply in the of the alcohols .
The divergences are no doubt to be attributed to the presence liquid- alcohols of molecular aggregates which have a complexity different from of the acids , and in what follows the attempt is first made to ascertain if the nitudes of the numbers given by the alcohols , affected as they are by complexity , ated to one another or to the chemical nature of the alcohols .
Atcohols.\mdash ; On comparing the values given by the normal primary alcohols , ect of still appears to be constant , but instead of being 150 , as in the of other homologous series , is now reduced to 104 .
The comparison of the ed and calculated using is given in the following table , the of methyl alcoholbeing taken as the starting point of the calculated numbers:\mdash ; In deducing the value of the molecular viscosity work of propyl ignored , as there is little doubt , from the low boiling-point of the sampl* viscosity is affected by impurity .
It is conceivable , of course , that the in the case of this alcohol may be due to mathematical treatment of the in the case of the alcohols SLOTTE'S formula is least satisfactory , as is that a small error in determining the slope corresponds to a large error ascertained viscosity .
In this particular case , however , a grnphical obtaining the slope led to practically the same result as the analytical method .
difference in the case of propyl alcohol about 4 per cent. , and in the case of and butyl alcohols the differences only about6 per cent. It is therefore that in normal primary fatty alcohols , , as in other homologous series , to a constant change in molecular viscosity work , and that the magnitude change differs from that in other series , and is about 104 units .
A primary straight chain alcohol may be represented as on deducting values of , that is , , from the observed values of the the differences obtained correspond with the value of H. . .
OH .
The data are given in the table:\mdash ; Propyl alcohol , as before , gives a number differing considerably excluding this , we conclude that the probable value of H. . .
OH is 156 .
is evident that although quantitative relations do not exist between esponding members of the different classes of isomeric alcohols , yet the nitudes the molecular viscosity work vary in a regular way with the chemical nature of substances .
normal alcohol has alarger value of the molecular viscosity-work than an isomeric primary , or iso-secondary alcohol , and an iso alcohol has in turn a larger value than isomeric tertiary alcohol .
Of the two primary amyl alcohols , isobutyl carbinol a larger value than secondary butyl carbinol .
All the values conform to the rulo the higher the boiling-point , the higher is the molecular viscosity work .
It is seen from the table that the difference between a normal and an iso alcohol about 40 units as compared with 15 in the case of other compounds .
comparing the values of allyl alcohol and normal propyl alcohol with those of the esponding iodides , the behaviour of the alcohols is seen to be peculiar .
the whole of these comparisons it is clear that in the case of the alcohols the of the molecular viscosity work vary largely with the chemical nature of the .
In order to obtain some estimate of these ions and to see if they bject to any general ruIe , the observed values for the branched-chain alcohols the following table , compared with those calculated by means of the numbers obtained from the normal primary alcohols for and H. . .
OH , no made for the branching of the atomic chain , \amp ; c. If the alcohols be now arranged in the order of the divergences from the values , on writ , out their formulae at length and so arranging that the HO placed at the end of each formula , there is at once an obvious relation between constitution and the magnitude of the divergences .
In alcohoIs with two branches in the chain the more nearly the place to the HO group , or the nearer the rest of the molecule is to the .
HO larger is the divergence .
If there are three branohes in the chain greater than if only two branchings occur , and is also greater the molecular weight of the alcohol .
The divergence of the value for an branched chain from that of the corresponding straight chain compound function of the proximity of the rest of the molecule to the HO group .
The divergence is least in the case of the primary alcohols and is less for a ndary than for a tertiary alcohol .
Of isomeric prirnary alcohols the one in ch the branching of the chain occurs nearest to the hydroxyl group exhibits the est deviation .
Only one secondary alcohol occurs in the table , but of the two tiary alcohols the one of higher molecular weight has the larger deviation .
values given by the alcohols although at first sight apparently anomalous thus seen to be subject to regularity ; moreover they indicate most clearly that presence and relationships of the ( HO ) group in the fundamental molecule are ascribed the apparent ncies .
ow it has already been indicated that the slope of the alcohol curves and indeed whole general behaviour of the alcohols point to the presence of molecular ates in these liquids .
It has also been stated that those liquids , which from independent considerations give the most marked indication of containing such are hydroxyl compounds .
Hence it is most probable that the anomalous for the viscosity magnitudes exhibited by the alcohols , more especially since can be connected with the presence of the result of the presence of molecular aggregates in the at the temperature of comparison .
The used for the ] .
viscosity work in the case of the alcohols are therefore actual values of this quantity , since they involve the theoretical molecular .
instead of the actual liquid molecular weights of the substances .
They can , not be taken to represent the same magnitude as is dealt with in the case of constituted liquids , but serve only to indicate how the simple relationships whioh for such substances are complicated by the presence of molecular complexes .
It would be interesting , no doubt , to ascertain with such data as are to hand , actual value of the magnitudes , ated from liquid molecular But until the theoretical basis of 's method of estimating molecuJar has been definitely established we do not see that much will be gained by such a comparison .
We are indeed inclined to believe that the question of the actual extent of the plexity will not be settled by the study of one single property but by a as many properties as are more or less immediately related to the acting a liquid substance .
Results Liquids .
The most satisfactory method of showing the presence of complexes in the liquids which we have examined would be to compare the observed values with calculated by means of the effect produced by hydroxyl oxygen in simply liquids .
The general concJusion which seems to flow from the physicoevidence at present accumulated is , however , that a simply constituted compound does not exist ; all hydroxy compounds seem to contain molecular gates .
Hence , the most that can be done is to show that the value of oxygen which applies to one series of substances , does not apply to another , that , in the case of the same series , owing to variations in the complexity of vidual members , the differences between the observed and calculated larger than in similar comparisons involving simply constituted liquids .
may also be obtained on comparing the effects produced by a definite chemical composition on the viscosity magnitudes of the hydroxy liquids with produced by the same change in the case of simply constituted liquids .
The varying values which , by the preceding mode of treatment , may be hydroxyl oxygen in the acids , water , and the alcohols , and which may be some extent by chemical constitution as well as molecular are as The value of hydroxyl oxygen originally used was derived from the numbers the acids wherein the " " rest.\ldquo ; contained the un..saturated carboxyl group , so value of refers only to the acids .
In the case of water , it has that here the value of derived from the acids no longer applies .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
687 be taken to be normal , and to be , the value of oxygen in water the normal alcohols , since . .
OH , using the norlnal value for values which may thus be ascribed to oxygen , when linking hydrogen to groups in these compounds , are given below . .
Linking hydrogen to carboxyl in an acid , , , , hydrogen in water , , , , a saturated rest in a normal alcohol he value which , by the above method of calculation , may be ascribed to , is seen the table to be larger for water than for an acid , and largest of all for an alcohol .
preceding discussion has also shown how the behaviour of the alcohols is probably ated t.o the effect which the ( HO ) group exerts upon the rest of the molecule , and is now ind.icated that this effect is greater in the case of an alcohol than in that of other of the liquids examined .
he values for given by the viscosity coefficients of the acids , it will be mbered , varied irregularly as the series was ascended .
The same is true for the es given by molecular viscosity and molecular viscosity work .
lthough in these latter cases the mean effecb of is not far removed from that simply-constituted liquids , coupled with the peculiar behaviour of isobutyric acid compa.red with other iso compounds , the irregularities observed point to the uliar behaviour of the acids which is so obvious in glancing at their viscosityand which is no doubt to be ascribed to molecular complexity .
normal alcohols appear to a constant value for , which is decidedly rent from that given by simply-constituted liquids .
Moreover , the variation in numbers for isomeric alcohols is enormous when compared with that given by the liquids , the acids included .
the above facts point to the molecular complexity of the hydroxy liquids we have examined , and also to the conclusion that if complexity , as disuished from the purely chemical constitution of simple molecules , is the sole of the irregularities , it exerts a much more profound effect in the case of the hols than in any of the other liquids .
This last conclusion is further supported he comparisons made at different slopes .
will be remembered that , on passing from one slope to another , viscosity itudes of water and the acids alter to the same extent as those of the liquids .
The alcohols , however , do not follow the same rule , for , as be seen later , on ing to a new ] , the extent to which the 6.88 MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE viscosity alters is different for each alcohol and is related to its chemical These results are but additional expressions of the marked differenoes obviously exist between the viscosity-curves of the blcohok and those of other liquids .
Conclusions relating to Molecular Viscosity Work at Equat Slope , The results here obtained are of precisely the same nature as those discussed molecular viscosity .
More detail has been given to show that the which give deviations from the calculated values fall into two classes .
In the deviations are to be attributed to chemicaI constitution , as similar effects may be detected in the magnitudes of other physical properties which seem to be affected by molecular complexity .
In the second are those like the acids , water , and the alcohols , for which the disturbing factor is , no molecular complexity , the effect produced in this way , in the case of the being dependent upon their chemical nature .
GH : NERAL1TY 0F THE RESULTS OBTAINED AT EQUAL SLOPE .
One of the most important points which has to be discussed in connection with physico-chemical investigation is the question of the generality of t , he results .
the relationships obtained at one series of comparable temperatures be the any other series chosen according to the same system , but having different from those first employed For example , will relations between specific volume measure the ordinary boiling-point be the same at other of equal vapour pressure ?
In the case of viscosity the question is : Are the results obtained the magnitude of the slope ?
It has already been shown that on comparing as liquids a.s could be compared at slopes and , practically the same are obtained in each case .
Instead , however , of testing the question by method like the above , which relates to particular cases , it is possible to question in a general way by employing SLOTTE'S formula .
From , it follows that , or the slope , is given by , and , where THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
689 is expressed in terms of the slope .
\amp ; c. , be the viscosity coefficients of liquids A. , \amp ; c. , measured slope , and let \amp ; c. , be the corresponding coefficients at the slope hen , if the relations between , \amp ; c. , are the same as those between \amp ; c. , that is , if the relations are to be independent of the value of the it is evident that the ratios \amp ; c. , must be equal .
\amp ; c. , can be expressed in terms of the slope , and may be written \amp ; .
, \amp ; c. , can be in the same way expressed in terms of the slope and hence , if the relationships between \amp ; c. , are to be the same as those ween \amp ; c. , it follows that the values of ratios \amp ; c. , must be equal , since in comparisons at equal slopes and have the same value for all the ids , it follows that the will be independent of the slope if \amp ; .
is , if \amp ; c. far as SLOTTE'S formula goes , it is thus indicated that for the comparisons to be eral the value of should be the same for all the liquids .
has already been stated that , from } mode in which is deduced , its value is by circumstances more or less accidental .
It is satisfactory , however , to find , omparing the values of for all the liquids , with the exception of aldehyde and alcohols , that the variation is comparatively small .
following table contains the mean value of given by the different series of the alcohols and aldehyde excluded:\mdash ; From the 60 liquids above given , it is evident that the value of is , in etween 1 and , and does not differ much from From this mean value it is possible to calculate the value of the ratio viscosities at the slopes employed , that is , the value of Viscosity coefficient at slope Viscosity coefficient at slope ' for , by the previous discussion , the ratio is equal to which is equal to The mean value of this ratio obtained directly for the 33 liquids which be compared at the two slopes , was , as already stated , , which closely with the value obtained above by using the value of deduced from the whole 60liquids included in the table .
From the reasons already given regarding the unsatisfactory character method of the constants in SLOTTE'S formula , this agreement is of able importance , and seems to indicate that formulae may yet be obtained of used by SLOTTE in which is ' the same for all substances such as those sidera , tion .
If this should be possible , since it is evident that is the quantity peculiar to each liquid which should chemico-physical comparisons .
If , at present , values of be found for THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL .
691 means of the varying numbers for , these values can in general be directly connected with the chemical nature of the substances , for such uitous variations in the value of as those given by pentane and isopentane general relationships .
is also indicated that the general relation which connects the viscosities of all foregoing liquids with the slope is that knowing at the slope , it is possible to calculate its value at the new Tu Alcohols.\mdash ; As already stated , one formula of the type used by SLOTTE was not able of representing with sufficient accuracy the observed values for the higher hoIs over the entire range between and the boilin -point .
It has already been ted , and it is evident from the ] on p. 578 , thaii even when several short range mulae are employed the values obtained for are markedly in excess of the erage value obtained from the other substances .
It is also evident from the erent formulae obtained from the same alcohol that the value of is not constant falls as the temperature rises .
This variation would probably take place in the of any experimental curve if several formulae were deduced according to the hod employed , inasmuch as a similar change is noticeable in the values of as by the formulae for water .
his variation indicates that the magnitude of is dependent upon the particular of the curve to which the formuIa refers , and when it is remembered that for two liquids is the portion of the curve compared between and the boiling-point same extent , the variation lends further support to the idea that with such a thod as that employed in deducing SLOTTE'S formula , little stress need be put upon slight changes in the value of as have been found for the majority of the liquids .
he general mean of he 22 values obtained for in all the formulae relating to alcohols is , and this value differs so much from the mean value obtained other liquids , that it is without doubt connected with the generic difference in the viour of the alcohols which is expressed in the peculiar shape of their viscosity large value for , especially when it is borne in mind that for the alcohols large values , also indicates that at a larger value of the slope their viscosity cients will not be related to those of the other liquids in the same way as at , but will be relatively larger .
the unsatisfactory nature of the formula for the hols , it was not possible this difference by a general method .
A new vaIue of the slope was chosen , and the corresponding values of determined for the alcohols , and as possible of the other liquids .
value of the slope which appeared to be the most suitable , viz. , that MESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE possessed by butyric acid at At this value of the slope , only 5 than the alcohols could be compared , and in the following tables are given of and the temperature , for these liquids at the previous slope .
slope .
As before , is expressed in dynes per sq .
centim. Here it is again evident that the coefficients are related at slope practically the same way as at slope , as the value of the ratio of the viscos at the two slopes is practically constant and equal to .
It is also significant the value of the ratio calculated on the assumption that has the mean value by means of the formula is exactly the value found above , viz. , This goes to show that at temperatures which differ so widely as those of original slope .
and of the final slope , the difference being about viscosity coefficients are related in practically the same way , even in the liquids like the acids and the dibromides .
With the alcohols , however , this is not the case .
The following table values of the alcohols at slopes .
and .
Methyl alcohol is not the tables , as the temperature corresponding with the larger slope appears low as THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
693 The value of the ratio , instead of being , is now considerably greater , ing on the average .
It is thus evident that the mode in which the magnitude the viscosity coefficients of the alcohols varies with the value of the slope is different that of the whole of the other liquids .
It is further indicated that , although the of the ratio is somewhat the same for all the alcohols , yet it depends to some tent on their chemical nature , as it is smaller the higher the molecular weight for cohols of like constitution , and , in the case of alcohols of the same molecular weight , is smaller the more branched the atomic chain , or the lower the boiling-point , as is en from the following table:\mdash ; It is thus apparent that not only are the magnitudes of the viscosity coefficients of the alcohols determined at any one slope , peculiar , but also the manner in which values of the coefficients change with the slope .
With such data as are to hand , would seem that relations between the viscosity coefficients of the other liquids are the same kind , no matter what slope be used .
The mode in which the values for alcohols are related to those for the other liquids depends , however , on the slope , further , the relations between the values for the alcohols themselves seem to end on the value of the slope , and to suffer slight variations which are related to chemical nature .
here is little doubt that methyl alcohol behaves in the same way as the higher for the value given by it for the quotient was , which is higher than the mean value given by the other liquids , viz. , Here we again have definite evidence that the alcohols exhibit peculiarities have no existence in the case of the other liquids .
Even the acids which , alcohols , contain molecular aggregates , give no marked indication of behaviour at different slopes .
Between the groups of acids and akohols there therefore , be a generic difference which may ultimately be related to the fact an alcohol the HO group , which is the most active part of the molecule so far am cosity is concerned , is in connection with a saturated ' ' rest whereas , for an the " " rest\ldquo ; is unsaturated .
In the preceding discussion regarding the generality of the results , viscosity cients only have been dealt with ; similar conclusions hold , however , for viscosity and molecular viscosity work , as the molecular area and molecular volume so slowly with temperature as compared with viscosity , the relations between at the temperatures of equal slope are so nearly independent of the magnitude slope , that the change in the viscosity coefficient itself need alone be considered .
COMPARISONS IN WHICH A DIFFERENT SLOPE IS EMPLOyED FOR EACH If it is eventually established that a formula of the type used by SLOTTE the true temperature-function of viscosity , and also that in such a formula from liquid to liquid , from what has been said it is evident that comparisons same slope will not be general , but will vary with the magnitude of the Under such conditions it is obvious , therefore , that to obtain general slope must vary from liquid to liquid , and the following method indicates question may be approached , the conditions to be fulfilled being:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) That the comparisons shall be general .
( 2 .
) That the results obtained shall be related to the chemical nature substances .
( 1 .
) For generality , it has already been shown that the following relation hold \amp ; .
Now if \amp ; c. , differ from \amp ; c. , that is , if the slope varies fromliquid to slopes can be chosen so as to satisfy the above relation in an indefinite number ( 2 .
) It appears , however , from all the preceding comparisons that chemical will only be made evident when the slopes are nearly the same ; hence for relations \amp ; c. , must be approximately equal , and , of course , be approximately equal .
If slopes be chosen , therefore , according to some dehnite system , and TWEEN THE OSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
695 conditions , the results will be general , and related to the chemical nature of substance .
trial we have found that if slopes be chosen which satisfy the relationship \amp ; .
, \amp ; .
, condition for generality is fulfilled , the slopes obtained are almost the same , and are chosen according to a system , as the constants employed are and , which in the formulae of the particular liquids .
same conditions are also satisfied if instead of either or be substituted in the above equations .
all these conditions of comparisons , however , the stoichiometric relationships no more definite than at temperatures of equal slope .
We do not propose , refore , in the present state of the question , to give details of the results obtained .
above discussion , however , may serve to show how it is possible by means of pe comparisons , and with a simple formula like that of SLOTTE'S , to insure that results obtained shall be general , even when varies .
The fact that the above somewhat complex methods lead to no better physicoemical relations than the simple method of equal slopes , may also be taken as a there indication that , at least for liquids in which the molecular complexity does change with the temperature , in a formula of the type employed , if it could made to agree more closely with actual observations , the constant would the same .
This again indicates that at temperatures of equal slope the results be taken to be general as well as comparable .
nclusions relating to the Generality of the Results Obtained the of Equal Slope , and to the Comparisons in which Different Stope is Employed for each Liquid .
From the preceding discussion it is evident that over such temperature-ranges our observations extend the results obtained at a particular value of the slope be regarded as general for all liquids , with the exception of the alcohols ere the relationships vary slightly as the slope alters .
It is further indicated that in the present state of the question equal slope is most suitable condition at which to compare the viscosities of different liquids .
0F THE MAGNITUDES 0F THE TEMPERATUBES 0F EQUAL SLOPE the preceding comparisons we have been concerned with the values of the , viscosity magnitudes corresponding with points on the viscosity curves ESSRS .
T. Hi .
THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATION at which is the same for the different substances .
Instead of values of the viscosity at these points we may equally well deal with the of the temperatures at which the slope is the same for the various what follows an attempt is made to show how the magnitudes of the equal slope- are related to the chemical nature of the substances , and , also , relationships obtained at any one slope are affected on passing to a new the slope .
TEMPERATURES IN DEGREES CENTIGRADE VHICH THE SL0PE 1s HOMOLOGUES .
THE. .
cosITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
697 Homologues ( continued ) .
rom the above table it is seen that for most series an increment of brings an increase in the temperature of slope , which varies within moderate limits from one series to another .
The dibromides , the acids , and benzene give , , negative differences , and the dichlorides a large positive difference .
These ularities are but further indications of the peculiarities which have already been in connection with these substances .
CORRESPONDING Compounds .
In the case of simply constituted liquids , the same alteration in molecular brings about approximately the same alteration in temperature .
The hest molecular weight has also the highest temperature .
The complex methyl alcohol and the acids\mdash ; do not obey these rules , but give large negative rences which , in the case of the acids , diminish with rise in molecular weight .
NORMAL Propyl .
and Allyl Compounds .
ETHYLENE and Acetylene Bromides .
A normal propyl compound has invariably a slightly higher temperature corresponding ] compound .
The differenc.es thus obtained , unlike what the differences in the viscosity magnitudes at equal slope , show no that given by the dibromides .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR ISOLOGOUS Hydrocarbons .
On converting a saturated into a straight-chain unsaturated hydrocarbon the perature of slope is lowered , amylene giving a larger difference than isoprene or The large negative values of the differences given by the aromatic hydropoint to the influence of the ring-grouping , and their variation to the omalous behaviour of benzene already noted .
SUBSTI'rUT1ON of Halogen for Hydrogen .
On substituting bromine for hydrogen the temperature is largely increased , and amount varies somewhat with the chemical nature of the substance .
The succesreplacement of hydrogen by chlorine increases the temperature by rent COMPOUNDS differing by a Carbon Atom .
entire want of agreement between the values of the differences given in the above comparisons , no doubt , the result both of chemical constitution and molecular complexity of methyl alcohol .
ISOMERS .
NORMAL and Iso Compounds .
A normal compound has a tempelature which is in general slightly larger that of the corresponding iso compound .
The large difference given by is , in all probabi ] , the result of complexity .
AROMATIC Hydrocarbons .
The large ifference given by ortho-xylene is connected with the striking in the coUrse of the curve for this substance , as 6ompared with those of the isomers .
he temperatures of the other isomers differ at most by some DICHLORETHANES .
The symmetrical compound has here by far the higher Rperature .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEIvIICAL NATURE .
ISOMERIC Ketones .
Of the two ketones , the symmetrical compound has slightly the lower temperature .
as in the case of all other comparisons , the chlorethanes differ from the EMPERATURES IN GREES CENTIGRADE AT WHICH THE SLOPE IS 0000987 .
At slope the temperature differences obtained on making comparisons of the nd given in the preceding tables are practically of the same order as are there ted .
This 'result follows from the fact.that the ratios of the absolute temratures of the two slopes are practically constant .
The mean value of the ratio , the hirty-four possible comparisons is , the average divergence from the an being017 , or about per cent. It is also worthy of note that the liquids ing the largest divergences were water , benzene , and formic acid ; the differences all negative , and about per cent. in the case of water , and 3 per cent. in case of the other two liquids .
That the temperature diffelences are of the same order at any slope was also ified by comparisons made at various slopes which are not discussed in this paper .
It now remains to examine how the temperatures by the alcohols at slope 87 are related to one another .
The results are expressed in the following tabJes : MESSRS .
T. E. THORPHi AND J. W. RODGE[I ON THE HOMOLOGUES .
It is seen from the above table that the differences,.although always positive , to a most marked extent in the case of the alcohols as compared with simply tuted liquids .
NORMAL and Iso alcohols .
Here again the alcohols are peculiar , as the differences are positive and whereas for the other liquids the corresponding differences are , in general , NORMAL Propyl and Allyl Alcohols .
The large value of the difference given by the comparison of normal allyl alcohols further instance of the peculiarities of the alcohols .
THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAL NATURE .
708 ERATURES IN DEGREES CENTIGRADE AT WHICH THE SLOPE order to ascertain if the values of the temperature differences given .
by the ok would be of the same nature at another slope , values were obtained for the Absolute temperature at slope Absolute temperature at slope liquids other than the alcohols , namely , formic and butyric acids , and ethylene , lene , and isobuty ] en bromides , were also available for this comparison .
These liquids gave practically the same values for the ratio , the mean value being the average divergence012 , or about90 cent. These liquids behave , thereat the large slope just as they did at the smaller slopes .
The alcohols , ever , do not obey this rule , for they give ratios which are not the same , but vary liquid to liquid , and are in general less than he values of the ordinary temperatures at slope , and the values of ordinary temperatures at slope , together with the ratios of these tempel.aon the absolute scale , are given in the following table : \mdash ; a normal alcoho the ratio is about ; for an isoalcohol , about ; and for alcohol , about .
The alcohols again differ in their behaviour from the majority of the other liquids , and their peculiarities , as is shown in the above are related to their chemical nature .
Conclusions relating to of Equal Slope .
preceding tables show that : The magnitudes of the temperatures of equal slope vary in a regular way with bemioal nature of the substances , except in the case of liquids like formic acid , NESSRS .
T. E. THORPE AND W. RODGNR TflE benzene , and propylene dibromide , giving viscosity curves which are compared with those of their homologues .
2 .
temperature relationships may also be garded as neral independent of the value of the slope , except in the case of the alcohols .
which , respect , as in that of viscosity at equal slope , are anomalous .
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING PHYSICO-CHENICAL : It is evident from theforegoing tables that the liquids showing irregulanty agnitudes of their temperatures of equal slope are the dihalogen acids , benzene , ortho-xylene , the alcohols , \amp ; c. , and these are the shown both by the graphical and algebraical treatment of , our results to viscosity-curves having courses which were peculiar as compared with those majority of other related substances .
Although at equal slope the viscosity tudes of many of these compounds , the acids included , exhibit more or less relationships , yet when we consider the magnitudes of the temperatures at slope , the peculiarities of the substances stand out as as before .
to the conclusion that , if the disposition of the curve of a substance is compared with those of related substances , then no matter how we choose the ditions of comparison the original peculiarity expressed by the curve must still and may be discovered by regarding the results from different points of view .
Since the nitude of the boiling-point of a subs ance is more or less related to its chemical nature , if we choose the as the co comparison , we insure that the temperatures of the substauces will less definite physico-chemical relationships and hence the viscositythose liquids which give peculiar viscosity-curves will not be definitely related boiling-point .
This we have seen to be the case .
Similar considerations apply case of other physical properties .
At equal slope , on the other hand , we have found that the viscositymany of the peculiar substances accord with the regular behaviour of those of the other liquids , but , as has just been shown , the peculiarities , no lo'nger exist in magnitudes of the viscosities , are clearly indicated by of the temperatures .
This argument does not necessarily prove that for the purposes of comparisons the boiling-point has as much to recommend it as a temperature slope ; indeed , the latter , both by the results obtained and from general seems to be by far the more preferable .
The real conclusion indicated is that system of peratures of comparison merely for the sake of obtaining and the magnitudes of physical properties at those temperatures , is but a partial arriving at a true estimate of the behaviour of the substances , for that expressed , not only in the magnitude of the physioel- .
property , but THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS AND THEIR CHEMICAI , NATURE .
705 tude of the temperature .
At equal slope the viscosity of benzene , say , although scosity curve is peculiar , accords with those of higher homoIogues , and , indeed , oet homologous substances .
Benzene may therefore be said to be comparable other substances at equal slope , but it has still to be explained why the perature of ben-zene is higher than that of its higher homologue at equal slope , this temperature relation is the reverse of what holds for almost all simply- tituted liquids .
foUows , therefore , from the above general discussion , ( 1 ) that a comprehensive of the physico-chemical relationships of a series of substances can only be ined by studying the variation of the physical property over as wide a ran ge of perature as possible ; ( 2 ) that the graphical or algebraical representation of the so will indicate whether particular members of a series are exceptional haviour as compared with their congeners ; and ( 3 ) if such exceptional behaviour it may be detected either in the viscosity.magnitude or the temperature , no whether we use the boiling-point , a corresponding temperature , or a temperaof equal slope as the condition of comparison .
OTHER METHODS 0F OBTAINING AND COMPARING VISCOSITY-MAGN1TUDES .
might at first sight be supposed that the most suitable method of obtainiug ) ico-chemical relationships would have been to deal with the curves expressing ) between temperature and the molecular viscosity or the molecular work , instead of concerning ourselves , as we have done , with the for , the viscosity coefficient .
the fact , however , that molecular aggregation affects the values of and extent which cannot at present be satisfactorily estimated , we concluded that uestion should , in the first instance , be approached by deducing slopes frolrl the for the viscosity coefficients , and not from curves involving the quantities have , however , made a series of comparisons using curves for 1noleculau : , theoretical values of being used in obtaining them .
The result of this is , that the constants in SLOTTE'S formula , and the coefficients and in the formula , the values of the temperatures of equal slope , and the values molecular viscosity read off at these temperatures , although differing in tude from those already given , exhibit amongst themselves practically the same relationships as have already been described .
same conclusions apply to the method in which curves for molecular viscosity are employed .

