]\gt ; IV .
" " On the Dependence of Radiation Tcmperatul.e.\ldquo ; By SIR WILLIAN SIEMENS , F.R.S. , D.C.L. , .D .
April 25 , 1883 .
Sir Isaac Newton held that the radiation of heat from a hot body increased in arithmetical ratio with the difference of tempel.ature between it and the surrounding bodies .
This law forms a rough approximation to the truth over a vely limited range of temperature .
MM .
Dulong and Petit carried out an elaborate experimental research on the rate of .
of hot bodies by radiation , to somewhat higher temperatures , and deduced from their tions empirical formula\mdash ; Rate of cooling .
Here is the temperature of the hot body in degrees Centigrade , the temperature of the surrounding matter , and is a constant depending on the nature of the radiating body .
This formula agrees very fairly lvith experimental results for ordinary temperatures , like Newton 's law , it has been shown that it cannot be applied for a wider range .
The anomalous results which Newton 's law and the formula of MM .
and Petit lead to , when )plied to the cooling of bodies at a very high temperatnrc , are well illustrated by the attempts at deducing therefrom temperature of the solar photosphere .
Waterston and Pere Seccbi in his work entitled " " Le Soleil\ldquo ; following Newton 's hypothesis , obtained 10,000,000o C. as the probable solar temperature , and Captain J. Ericsson , on the same hypothesis but assuming other constants , arrived at a temperature between and C. Strangel .
contrasting with these determinations are those of Pouillet in 1886 , and Vicaire in who , employing Dulong and Petit 's empirical formula , deduce the and lS98o C. for the solar temperatlll'e .
Between these extreme estimates we have those of Dr. Spoel.er , C. , of Zoellner , 27 , , Professor James Dewar ( 1872 ) , 16,000o , Rosetli ( 1878 ) , , and Hirn ( 1882 ) , 20,000o .
In my own investigations on this subject , by comparing the I spectrum of the sun as regards the proportion of luminous rays with those of the electric arc and flames , I have arrived at the conclusion that the tempelature of the photosphere does not exceed C. , which is in close agreement with the limit assigned by M. Sainte-Claire Deville , deduced from the observations of Frankland and Lockyer on the hydrogen lines in the solar spectrum .
Sir William Thomson , in a paper communicated to the Society of Glasgow ( 1882 ) , has compared the power of the sun 's radiation per unit of surfaoe with that of a Swan inc.andescent carbon filament , and has shown that it is about sixty-seven times greater ; he concludes from these data that the estimate I had formed of the solar temperature , i.e. , nearly S000o C. , cannot be very far from the true ] These diverse and indirect results have long impressed me with the need of further experimental investigation of the dependence of radiation on temperature ; and it has occurred to me lately , that the difficulties with which Dulong and Petit had to contend in making their measurements by means of a mercurial thermometer , where the losses due to conduction and convection are very great , and exceedingly difficuIt to determine , might be avoided in adopting a method of conducting the experiment which forms the , principal subject of my present communication .
It is well known that the measurement of electrical rents and resistance is susceptible of very great accuracy compared with all thermal measurements hence my endeavour has been to estimate thermal eifects entirely by eIectrical methods .
In the Bakerian Lecture for 1871 , hich I had the honour of before the Royal Society Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 19 , p. 443 ) , I showed th the resistance of a platinum wire can be expressed as a linear function of its temperature by an empirical formuIa , the of which must be determined for each individual wire ; heuco convel.sely , if resistance of a }-ire previously calibrated is measured , its tempel.ature can be deduced .
From theoretical considerations I that might be expected to represent the relation between the resistance and absolute temperature .
This formula agreed closely with my own experimental resuIts for platinum , copper , silver , iron , and aluminium rcs of the Society of Telegraph ngineers and EIecand ( B ) on the diagram , carried on two suitable wooden stands .
The binding screws are connected through an electro-dynamometer ( D ) , for the purpose of measuring the current , to a secondary battery , Diagram arrangement of experiment .
the number of cells in which can be varied .
A high resistanoe galvanometer ( G ) is also inserbed between the binding screws as a shunt to f , he platinum wire .
The electro-dynamometer is of the ordinary form , in which the current passes through a fixed coil , and a movable coil consisting of a cingle twist , hung by a torsion spring in a vertical plane at right angles to the plane of the fixed coil .
The couple due to the current is balanced by the torsion ' of the hence the angle of torsion is proportional to the square of the current .
The current through the high resistance galvanometer being a measure of the difference of potential between the extremities of the platinum wire , the reading of the galvanometer , divided by the main current as debermined by 1883 .
] On the Dependence of Radiation on Temperature .
169 the electro-dynamome , is proportional to the resistance of the wire .
Hence the constant of the instrument and the resistance of the galvanometer being known , the resistance of the platinum wire could be calculated , as the current was varied by altering the number of cells composing the battery .
The measurements were made in all cases when equilibrium been established between the radiation and the energy of the current , evinced by the constancy of the readings of the electro-dynamometer and Having made , rough prehminary series of experiments to the suitability of the method and apparatus , with satisfactory resu on April 17th I ma I made a second series , the results of which are recorded Table I. Column I gives the current amperes passmg through the wire ; column II the difference of potential in volts between the terminals as deduced from the readings of the galvanometer ; column III the rate at which the energy of the current was converted into adiant energy , represented by the product of the electromotive force and current , and therefore measured in volfamperes or watts ; column the resistance of the wlre , being the ratio of the electromotive force to the current ; column the corresponding temperature of the wire degrees Centigrade .
Finally , column VI describes the condition of the wire as apparent to the eye .
Table I. of wire 102 centims. Diameter millim. Temperature of room F. On April 18th , three further series of experiments were made , the results of which are set forth in a similar manner in Tables II , III , and TOTE .
temperatures corresponding to the very small currents are not given , as for very small deflections the electro-dynamometer readings could not be regarded as perfectly Table III .
Length of wire 102 centims. Diameter millim. Current increasing .
' On the Dependence of ) ?
The resuIts given in the four tables are plotted out on the curve lnarked ( A ) .
The abscissae give the rate at which the energy of the ( current is converted into heat , and the ordinates the corresponding resistance of the wire .
To determine the temperature of the wire corresponding to each resistance , another series of experiments was made , which are described hereafter .
The values of a , , and obtained were\mdash ; hence ; where ; the resistance of the wire at the freezing point .
By giving to various values in this formula , a curve can be ucted showing the reIation between the resistance and absolute Such a curve was drawn , and approximated for high temperatures to a straight line , as evidently must be the case from the form of the equation .
By solving the equation for the maximum value of observed , it was found that the tsmperature of the wire when bright red hot was about C. It is known that platinum wire melts approximately- 1800o C. The curve of relation between the temperaturc of the wire and the ependence oadiation oaenergy absorbed constructed .
tu king abscissae of the curve proportional to the watts absorbed , and the ordinates proportional to the temperatures in degrees Centigrade , the dotted curve marked represents the relation between the power 1 and the temperature for the results given in the tables .
I have sought to express this relation by an empirical formula in order to carry the curve to still higher temperatures .
The equation\mdash ; Temperature where represents watts , agrees with the experimental results .
The constants the values , Mr. McFarlane , in a paper communicated to the Royal Society on January 11th , 1872 , has arrived at the equation\mdash ; Rate of energy lvhere are empirical constants and is the difference of temperature , from his experiments made through a very limited range of temperature , , about C. Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 20 , p. 90 , 1872 ) .
Professor James Dewar , from experiments extending from a temperature of to the boiling points of sulphur and mercury , also deduces a parabolic formula .
' ' Proceedings of the Royal Institution vol. 9 , p. 266 .
) Making use of the equation I have given , the rate of energy absorbed for a temperature of C. , is 155,000 watts , or sixtyseven times the rate of absorption at a temperature of 1670o C. Since 1670o C. is not much below the temperature of an incandescent filament ( reverting to Sir William Thomson 's calculation for the ratio of the radiant power per unit of surface of the sun to that of the incandescent filament ) , the temperature of the sun comes out to be about 278 ; which is in very close ag.reement with my former estimate based on other grounds .
The effect of absorption between the sun and the earth wouId bring the two estimates into still closer agreement .
If we attempt to form a natural equation to the curve , it is apparent that it will consist of two terms\mdash ; The term due to radiation , The term depending on the c.onvection and conduction of the air .
The conduction of heat by the wire into the terminals may be neglected , as by taking a considerable it becomes a small quantity of the second order .
The first term I take to be proportional Rate of energy .
The constants A and will depend on the nature of the radiating body and on the surrounding medium .
Although for theoretical purposes it is important to eliminate the conduction and convection , yet in most cases a medinm is present , and it has been shown by Mr. Crookes that , within limits , variations in pressure have only a very small effect on the amount of heat lost by conduction and convection .
I have not as yet been able to make auy experiments on the determination of the term , but it is my intention to make further ations on this point .
I am indebted to Professor Shokes for sug.gesting a method which appears to me likely to yield useful results .
He proposes to construct a chimmey of white paper , and to fix it over the wire through which the current is passing .
The chimney will eollect all the heated air ascending by convection , and by suitable means its temperature and the rate of flow can be measured , and hence the rate of loss of heat by convection estimated .
It might be supposed that the experiment in vacuo would diminish the convection .
According to the original researches of long and Petit , the rate of cooling diminished in a geometrical progression , whose ratio was , as the pressure diminished in a second geometrical progression , of which the ratio Crookes , in a paper communicated to the Royal Society Proc. Boy .
Soc 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 239 ) described some experiments on this point , and showed a diminution of pressure from 760 millims. to 120 millims. had a very slight effect on the convection .
From 120 to 5 millims. the effect was somewhat more marked .
A reduction of pressure from 5 millims. to 2 millims. , however , produced twice as much fall in the rate of cooling as whole exhaustion millims. to 1 millim. Hence to eliminate the effect of a very high exhaustion must be obtained .
It still remains to describe the experiments by which the constants : 1@83 .
] the Dependence of Ra of the empirical formula con wiul its absolute temperature were in a glass tube , stopped at either ] wire passed centrally .
The tube an aperture in its cover sufficiently 1 meter placed in contact with the trough was filled with meIting ic measured by a bridge .
two Bunsen burners were placed 1 ture gradually raised by increasin burners .
In this way a series of simultane temperature of the and its cor The results are given in the subjoin reading that the thermometer ha represented the temperature of the tions were taken as the wire cooled given in the table .
For the reduction of the 26 equations obtained from these obsertions , the method of least squares was employed , giving A second series were taken with the same piece of wire , and the current increased until the broke .
The values for deduced by the method of least squares are\mdash ; In conclusion I have pleasure in acknowledging the assistance I have received in conducting the experiments , and in the .of this paper , from Messrs. E. Lauckert and Edward Hopkinson , D. Sc. The Society adjoul.ned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May .
xxxv .

