]\gt ; Photo-elastic in Glass . .
( 17 ) We have thus arrived at a form of pulse hich r ] ) resents complete radiation at all temlJeratures , and the statistical relation between it and the harmonic constituents of the radiation emitted by the various roups of molecules .
Meantime fuller discussion of the above is reserve for a later paper .
On the 'Iemperature riation of the Photo-elastic in Strained By L. N. G. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mathematics Mechanics in the University of London .
Received December Read nuary 2 1 .
The object of this ation to determine in what manner stress-optical of glass vary with chance of temperature .
The method of measuring the stress-optical coefficients was the one described in 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc vol. 83 , pp. 573 et , but the following modifications were introduced for the special purpose in view .
2 .
The glass slabs were enclosed in a double-walled copper ) amber .
In the space between the two walls a constant circulation of steam could be maintained .
Two windows of plane parallel glass in the front and back of the chamber allowed , previously analysed by a , to traverse the slabs and to be focussed a spectrographic camera .
The plan and front elevation of the chamber are shown in fig. 1 .
tures were provided in the sides of the chamber to allow , wooden arms , by means of which moment without shear could be applied to the slabs , to project outside .
As a certain amount of free play had to be allowed to these arms , the apertures could not be made or packed htly with cotton wool .
In order to prevent draughts and loss of heat , thick felt pads , were fitted round the arms at the exit and entrance to the apertures as shown in fig. 1 .
practically closed the apertures while allowing the arms free motion , and the .
L. N. G. Filon .
Variation ed in comparison with the other forces An arrangement of partitions ( not ) in the figure ) inside the double wall ensured that steam circulated evenly through every part of the hollow wall .
A thermometer passed a cork in the roof of the chamber , its bulb being between the two slabs just outside the path of the rays of light .
When a steady state had been reached inside the chamber , the reading of this thermometer was assumed to give the temperature of the glass slabs .
Under the circumstances it was impossible to avoid a fairly large loss of heat through the various apertures .
Nevertheless a steady of to C. was always attained , and the definition of the spectrum after passing through the slabs showed that there can have been no serious inequalit , ies of temperature inside them .
3 .
The correction for the prismatic shape of the slabs induced by flexure was allowed for , as explained in the paper referred to , by immersing the slabs between two layel'S of oil .
The use of oil of cedarwood , which was employed previously , had to be discontinued , as it was found to coagulate at the enlperatures .
A sample of transformer oil , for which I indebted to the kindness of the Vacuum Oil Company , Ltd. , was used instead , and so far has proved entirely satisfactory .
The index of refraction of this oil had to be determined at both temperatures .
This was done by photographically the deflection ) a spectrum line after ) a wedge Prof. L. N. G. Filon .
negative ) , are given in columns II , III , V , of the table below for temperatures of C. and C. In columns I and have been entered the values of as determined for the same glass at about C. some three years previously .
These are taken from Table II of the paper quoted above , but expressed in the new units .
Table of Stress-Optical Coefficients for Glass 3199 .
3.77\mdash ; The gaps in the above table are due to the fact that many lines gave measurable images on one plate but not on another .
the Photo-elastic Effect in Strained Glass .
Photo-elastic Effect in Strained Glass .
The results are exhibited in the diagrams of fig. 2 , the base line being shifted so as to bring the curves of and close to one another for purposes of comparison .
The curves through the observations are merely put in as guides to the eye , to call attention , to the general trend of the observations .
They are not intended in any way to represent accurately the " " best fitting\ldquo ; curves .
7 .
If we compare the 1912 observations at the two temperatures it appears that the coefficient is numerically increased , numerically diminished , by rise of temperature .
If , however , we now compare the 1912 observations at the lower temperature with the 1909 observations at a sensibly equal temperature , we get tolerable agreement as regards but a serious difference in , which cannot be explained away by errors of observation .
The conclusion seems forced upon us that these stress-optical properties are not permanently fixed , but vary with the time and with the life-history of each individual piece of glass .
Possibly a slow readjustment of internal conditions takes place inside the glass , analogous to the settling down of highly viscous material .
But possibly also , the coefficients may be altered by the treatment received by the piece of glass in the interval .
Now , of the 1912 measurements , those at the higher temperature were taken on January 18 and , those at .
the lower temperature on March 7 for and March 14 for .
It is therefore possible that the general shift of the curve represents the residual effect after heating .
No observations were taken in 1912 before applying heat : an omission which unfortunately cannot now be repaired .
But clearly the effect of previous eatment will now have to be carefully studied .
One statement , at any rate , we can make with some certainty : the rise of temperature causes a temporary increase of the coefficient As regards the general trend of the curves there is in all the CI curves a slight average fall from red to blue and in all the curves a slight average rise from red to blue .
This seems unaffected by of temperature .
Superimposed upon this general trend are local irregularities of the type already discussed in the paper several times referred to .
These may or may not be significant .
A rise between and occurs in all the curves representing observations taken at temperature C. or after the glasses had been raised to that temperature : there seem to be traces of this rise in the 1909 observations of .
Probably this irregularity is significant and is made prominent by rise of temperature .
In this connection it may be Transparence of Surface Film in Polished well to note that the ordinary dispersion of this glass shows anomaly near 4300 .
One other local irregularity seems worthy of notice : this is the dip in the curve at C. near 5500 .
This is isolated : there is corresponding to it in any of the other curves .
This dip appears , however , well supported by the neighbouring observations .
If it prove real it is of considerable interest , being apparently developed only at the higher temperature .
8 .
In conclusion I have to express my very best thanks to Dr. E. N. da C. Andrade for his invaluable assistance .
Dr. Andrade very kindly undertook to measure for me the spectrograms and has expended much valuable time and care upon this task .
My acknowledgnlents are also due to Professor F. T. Trouton for continuing to me the kind and helpful of his laboratory at University College , London .
Transparence or of the SurfFilm produced in Polishing Metals .
By G. T. BEILBY , F.B.S. Received January Read [ PLATE 11 .
] In a communication to the British Association*it was that all smooth metal surfaces are covered with an enamel-like transparent In a subsequent communication to the Royal Society the actual formation of a surface layer or skin by polishing was demonstrated .
of the photomicrographs in the latter paper Plate showed that minute pits on a polished surface of antimony had been covered over by a film of this description .
It was suggested that the diminished reflecting power of the film covering the pits probably indicated that it had become translucent , but no direct evidence of thuis mslucence was afforded by these particular observations .
It was also suggested that the have been carried across the pits on a support provided mall ranulesb or flakes which had filled up the pit to the level of the eneral surface .
The 'Brit .
Assoc. Rep 1901 , p. 604 .
' Proc. Roy .
Soc , vol. 72 , p. 218 .

