Fig -IFor y ; Salt-work Fig -IVa a b Fig -Vb bb Fig. IIIa aa d C ab ab C C Fig -IIFig -VIE C dd aa Cbf aaddi bf Some Inquiries Concerning the Salt-Springs and the Way of Saltmaking at Nantwich in Cheshire ; Answered by the Learned and Observing William Jackson Dr. of Physic .
1 .
WHat is the depth of the Salt-Springs ?
The depths are various , in some places not above 3 .
or 4 .
yards .
In our Town of Nantwich , the Pitt is full 7 .
yards from the footing about the Pitt ; which is guessed to be the natural height of the Ground , though the Bank be 6 .
foot higher , accidentally raised by rubbish of long making Salt , or Walling , as they call it , In other places the Springs lye much shallower ; for in two places within our Township the Springs break up so in the Meadows , as to fret away not only the grass , but part of the earth , which lies like a breach , at least half a foot or more lower than the turf of the Meadow , and hath a Salt liquor , ousing , as it were , out of the mud , but very gently .
2 .
What kind of Country it is thereabout , where the Springs are , whither Hilly &amp; c. ; And what Plants grow near them ?
Our Country is generally a low ground , witness the name given to it ( the Vale Royal of England ; ) yet it is very full of Collicular Eminencies , and various Risings , to distinguish it from being all Meadow .
We have also a peculiar sort of ground in this County and some adjacent parts , which we call Mosses ; and they are a kind of Moorish boggy ground , very stringy , and fat : which serves us very well for Turfs , cut out like great Bricks and dried in the Sun .
And this kind of ground is so much here , that there are few Townships but they have their particular Mosses .
In these is found much of that Wood we call Firr-wood , which serves the Country-people for Candles , Fewel , and sometimes for small Timber-vses ; and this the Vulgar concludes to have lain there since the Flood .
But generally these Mosses seem to be places undermined by some Subterraneous streams ; or by the dissolution of some matter , that made them equal with the rest of the ground formerly : In which conjecture I am confirmed by this , That near a place of My Lord Cholmondeley 's , called Bilkely , about 9 .
or 10 .
years since , not far from one of these Mosses , without any Earth-quake , fell in , a piece of ground about 30 .
yards over , with an huge noise , and great Oaks growing on it fell with it together ; which hung first with part of their heads out , afterwards suddenly sunk down into the grounds , so as to become invisible : Out of which Pitt they drew Brine with a pitcher tied to a cart-rope , but could then find no bottom with the ropes they had there : Since , the Pitt is filled up with water , and now doth not taste Salt , but a very little brackish , a very small rindlet passing through it .
The Hhhhh2 nearest nearest Salt-springs to this place are at Dartwich about 3 .
miles from it , belonging to the present Lord Keeper , and My Lord Cholmondeley .
Some Hills we have , but no big ones , near our Springs ; which generally lye all along the River Weeuer , as Hanktllow , Hatherton , Ofterson , Bartherton , Nantwich , Weever , Leftwich , Northwich ; yet there is an appearance of the same Vein at Midlewich nearer the River Dane , than Weever ; which notwithstanding seems not to be out of the Line of the Weverish stream ; and these lye all near Brooks , and in Medowish grounds .
As to Plants , I could observe no singularity at all ; for , where the Salt reaches the surface , it frets away all ( as I said before , ) and upon the Turf near the old decayed Pitts grows the very same , that doth in the remotest place of the Meadow ; only Iobserve , that , where the Turff was fretted away , Rushes maintained their station longest ; yet they grow also in other moist grounds , so that they are no friends to the Salt-springs , but I perceive , they resist them best .
3 .
Whether there be any Hot-springs near the Salt-ones ?
And Whether the Water of the Salt-springs be hotter or cooler , than other Spring-water ?
The Water of the Salt-springs here is very cold at the bottom of the Pitt , insomuch that when the Briners sometimes go about to cleanse the Pitt , they cannot abide in , above half an hour , and in that time they drink much Strong water .
There is not any Hot Springs ( that I can hear of ) nearer us , than Buckston-well , which is about 30 .
miles distant near DarbyPeak Hills .
4 .
Whether they find any Shells about those Springs , and what kind of Earth it is ?
I cannot hear of any Shells digged up , though of late several new Brine-springs have been both sought , and found by sinking deep Pitts ; yet none knows of any Shels , but rather a blackish Slutch mixed with the Sand , which infects the whole Spring ( like the Scuttle-fish ) black , when it is stirred ; else the water runs very clear .
5 .
How strong the Water is of Salt ?
Springs are rich or poor in a double sense ; for a Spring may be rich in Salt , but poor in the quantity of Brine it affords Thus they have a rich Brine in their chief Pit at Midle-wich , which yields a full fourth part of Salt , like the rich Burgundian Springs , mentioned in Kircher 's Mundus Subterraneus ; yet this is so thrifty of its Brine , that the Inhabitants are limited to their proportions out of it , and their quantity is supplied out of Pitts that afford a weaker Brine .
Our Pitt at Nantwich yields but a sixth part ; but then it is so plentiful a Spring , that , whereas they seldom Wall , that is , make Salt , in above 6 .
Houses at a time , and there are or should be about 50 .
Wich-houses in the Town ; this Pitt is Judged sufficient to supply them all : And this advantage would accrew over and above , that such quick Use of the Pitt extremely strengthens the Brine , perhaps to a degree little less than that of Middle-wich Pitt : For , I have tried it myself , that a quart of Brine , when the Pitt hath been drawn off 3 .
or 4 .
days first , to supply 5 .
or 6 .
Wich-houses , hath yielded an Ounce and an half more of Salt , than at another time , when it hath had a rest of a week or thereabout .
But I conclude , that the nearest conjecture , to be made of the strength of this Brine , is , to yield one pound of Salt for six pounds of Brine ; as I have several times tried without any operation that might obscure the working : By which proportion you see , that six Tuns of Brine yield one tun of Salt : which may be built upon ; though in their ordinary way of working they make such variety of Additions , that it is impossible for any to be confident of the Product .
To add some particulars , concerning this point ; I shall tell you , that March 8 .
1668 .
I weighed two pounds of distilled water in a narrow-mouthed Glass-bott'e , that I might make an exact mark for a quart .
This Bottle , being filled with our Brine to the very same mark , weighed ( besides the tare of the Bottle ) two pounds three ounces and five drachmes .
This was taken up , when the Wich-houses but began to work , so that the Pitt was but little drawn .
I filled up the Bottle with the same Brine , and it weighed just three drachms more .
This Brine , boiled away without any addition or clarification , made five ounces and two drachmes of Salt .
Five days after , when the Fire had been drawn all that while for the working of the Wich-houses , vid .
March , 13 , the same Bottle , filled to the Quart-mark aforesaid with Brine then taken up , weighed , beside the Bottle , two pound four ounces and one drachme : the same time the Bottle , filled as in the former Experiment , weighed just two pounds and an half , which is three drachms more than the quart mark before ; which boiled into Salt made six ounces six drachms and two scruples : which exceeds the former quantity of Salt , one ounce four drachms and two scruples , though the Brine exceeded the former in weight but four drachms .
By which Try all I confuted also a Tradition , which the Briners have amongst them , viz. That the Brine is strongest at times of the Spring-Tydes , to wit , at the Full and Change of the Moon .
For March 8th .
aforesaid was only one day past the Full , and then the Brine was weaker than it was the 13th day , when it was 6 .
days past the Full .
So that I conclude , there could be no other reason , than that the much drawing makes way for the Saltsprings to come the quicker , and allows the less time for the admission of Fresh Springs .
6 .
What is the Manner of their Work ?
or What Time of boiling the Salt-water ?
Whether they use any peculiar thing to make it granulate , and if so , What that is ?
Their manner of working is this : They have formerly boiled their Brine in 6 .
Leaden pans with wood-fire ; upon which account they all claim their interest in the Pitt by the name of so many Six Leads Walling ; by which they each know their proportion ; but in the memory of many alive they changed their 6 .
Leads into 4 Iron-pans , something better than a yard square , and about 6 .
inches deep , still sitting the Content of these to that of the 6 .
Leads : and of late many have changed the 4 Iron-pans into two greater ; and some Wall but in one : But still the Rulers gage it to their Old proportions .
Thus much seemed necessary for understanding the several Operations .
They use for their Fuel , Pit-coals , brought out of Staffordshire .
These Panns are set upon Iron-barrs , and made in , on all sides , very close ( that the flame nor smoke break through ) with clay and bricks .
They first fill their Pans with Brine out of the Pitt ; which coms to them in several Woodden Gutters : then they put into their Panns amongst their Brine a certain mixture , made of about 20 .
Gallons of Brine , and 2 .
quarts of Calves Cows and chiefly Sheeps blood , mixed into a Clarret-Colour : Of this mixture they put about 2 .
quarts into a Pann that holds about 360 .
quarts of Brine ; this bloody brine , at the first boiling of the Pann , brings up a scumm , which they are careful to take off with a Skimmer , made with a woodden handle thrust through a long square of Wainscot-board , twice as big as a good square trencher : this they call a Loot .
Here they continue their fire as quick as they can , till half the Brine be wasted , and this they call Boiling upon the fresh .
But when it is half boiled away , they fill their Panns again with new Brine out of the Ship , ( so they call a great Cistern by their Panns sides , into which their Brine runs through the Woodden Gutters from the Pump , that stands in the Pitt ; ) then they put into the Pann , 2 .
quarts of the Mixture following : They take a quart of Whites of Eggs , beat them thoroughly with as much Brine , till they are well broken ; then mix them with 20 .
Gallons of brine , as before was done with the Blood ; and thus that which they call the Whites is made .
As soon as this is in , they boyle sharply , till the second Scum arise ; then they scum it off as before , and boyle very gently till it Corn ; to procure which , when part of the Brine is wasted , they put into each Pann of the Content aforesaid about a quarter of a pint of the best and strongest Ale they can get : this makes a momentany Ebullition , which is soon over , and then they abate their fires , yet not so but that they keep it boiling all over , though gently ; for the Workmen say , that if they boyle fast here , ( which they call Boiling on the Leach , because they usually all this time lade in their Leach-brine , which is such Brine , as runs from their salt , when it is taken up before it hardens ) if I say , they boyle fast here , it wasts their Salt .
After all their Leach-Brine is in , they boyle gently , till a kind of Scum come on it like a thin Jce ; which is the first appearance of the Salt : then that sinks , and the Brine every where gathers into Corns at the bottom to it , which they gently rake together with their Loots : I say , gently ; for much stirring breaks the Corn .
So they continue , till there is but very little brine left in the Pann ; then with their Loots they take it up the Brine dropping from it and throw it into their Barrows , which are Cases made with flat cleft wickers , in the shape almost of a Sugar-loaf , the bottom upper-most .
When the Barrow is full , they let it stand so for an hour and an half in the Trough , where it drains out all the Leach-brine abovesaid , then they re move it into their Hot-house behind their Works ; made there by two Tunnels under their Panns , carried back for that purpose .
The Leach-brine , that runs from the Barrows , they put into the next Boiling , for it is to their advantage , being salt melted , and wanting only hardning .
This work is persorm 'd in 2 .
hours in the smaller panns , which are shallower , and generally boyle their brine more away ; wherefore their Salt will last better , though it does not granulate so well , because , when the Brine is wasted , the fire and stirring breaks the Corns .
But this Salt weighs heavier , and melts not so soon ; and therefore is bought by them , that carry it far .
But in the greater Panns , which are usually deeper , they are above half an hour longer in boiling ; but , because they take their Salt out of their Brine , and only harden it in their Hot-house , it is apter to melt away in a moist Air : Yet of this sort of Salt the bigger the grain is , the longer it endures ; and generally this is the better granulated and the clearer , though the other be the whiter .
Upon which I rather think , it is the taking of the salt out of the Brine before it be wasted , that causes the granulating of it , than the Ale to which the Workmen impute it .
This kind measures profitably well ; therefore much bought by them that buy to sell again .
They never cover their Panns at all , during the whole time of Boiling .
They have their Houses like Barns open up to the thatch with a Cover-hole or two , to vent the steam of the panns .
Possibly Tiles may do better , but no body is yet so curious as to try , but the steam is such , that I am confident , no plaister will stick , and boards will warp , and their nailes will rust so , as quickly to fret in pieces .
7 .
Whether the Salt , made of these Springs be more or less apt to dissolve in the Air , then other Salt ?
And whether it be as good to powder Beef or other Flesh with , as French Salt ?
This Question I cannot well answer , in regard that French Salt coms not to us , to compare the efficacy of the one with the other experimentally ; but this I can assure for our Salt , that with it both Beef and Bacon is very well preserved sweet and good a whole year together ; and I do apprehend this Salt to be rather more searching than French Salt , because I have often observed , that meat kept with this Salt shall be more fiery Salt to the midst of it , than I have observed , when I have eaten powdered meat on Ship-board , which was probably done with French Salt , I then being on the Southside of England , and in a Dutch Vessel .
It is certain , Cheshire sends yearly much Bacon to London , which never yet had any mark of infamy set upon it ; and hanged Beef(which others call Martin-mass-Beef ) is as good and as frequent in Cheshire , as in any place ; so that I conclude , that this Salt is fully effectual for any Use , and as good as any other ; and therefore hope , 'twill be prosecuted in the use , that so the Trade of our own Commodities may rather be advanced , than of foreign , especially this of Salt ; which if it shall please the R. Society to promote , they will lay an obligation on all our Country never to be forgotten .
Mean time , if I have related here any thing obscurely or imperfectly , I am ready to answer any new Queries , that shall arise out of this obscurity , or give larger satisfaction to any of the Old , that shall be thought hereby not sufficiently explained .
Explication of the Figures belonging to the Account of Saltmaking .
Fig. 1 .
This is the Model of an Iron-pann of that proportion , when Four are used in one house .
a a. The Ears to hang the Pann by upon the Brick work .
b. The several junctures of the Iron plates riveted .
Fig. 4 .
C C. The breadth and length of the Pann near 4 .
foot .
C d. The depth of the sides of the Pann , about 6 .
inches .
Fig. 2 .
a a. The Hot-house between the Wall and the Chimney .
Leach or Leach-brine , b b. The two Tunnels .
C C. The Chimney-back , into which the two Tunnels conveigh the smoke .
dd d. d. The four Panns .
E. The partition-wall between the Panns and the Hot-house .
f. The Fire-places .
g g. The Ash-holes .
h. The Hearth below .
ii .
The descent to the Hearth .
Fig. 3 .
The Pack with his stale , with which they reach brine out of their Ship to fill their Panns withal .
a b. Several positions of their Loots , with which they skim , and gather their Salt .
Fig. 5a.a .
Two Barrows newly filled with Salt ; set into the Leach-trough to dripp out the b b , The Salt heaped above the Barrows and patted down hard .
C. The Leach trough .
Fig. 6 .
A gutter , which they lay over from one Pann to another , to pour the Brine into the farthest panns .

