1879 .
] On a Direct Vision Spectroscope .
483 prism and transmits it in a plane at right angles to the axis of the collimator to the second prism .
This second prisim is moveable about an axis parallel to its edge and to the axis of the telescope , and has a right angled reflecting prism attached to it , so that the light after traversing this prism twice passes the second time through the fixed prism and so by reflection into the telescope .
The lever carrying the second prism with its reflecting prism is moved by a micrometer screw , by the head of which the movement of the prism is read .
We placed the design in the hands of Mr. Hilger , some time since , and we now exhibit the instrument to the Society .
In the last number of the " Journal de Physique , " M. Thollon describes some modification of his instrument , but it does not seem that his modified plan is so well adapted to the ordinary use of a chemical laboratory as ours .
The accompanying diagram represents a section through the prisms at right angles to the axis of the collimator and telescope .
April 24 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for-them .
The Right Hon. Richard Assheton Cross , Secretary of State for the-Home Department , was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; Mr. H. T. Butlin .
[ Apr. 24 , I. " On the Nature of the Fur on the Tongue .
" By Henry Trentham Butlin , F.R.C.S. Communicated by J. Burdon SANDERSON , F.R.S. , Professor of Physiology in University College , London .
Received March 26 , 1879 .
[ Plates 10\#151 ; 13 .
] The fur on the tongue is generally stated to consist chiefly of epithelial cells , usually sodden and granular .
But several observers have described fungi as existing in it , or in the buccal mucus .
Robin , for instance , describes a form of ( L. ) in the mouth , and particularly in and between the teeth .
Kolliker mentions , as of constant occurrence , masses or dark-brown bodies ( which had previously been described by Miquel and Neidhardt , as occasionally present ) having a granular aspect , which he believed to be of the nature of a fungus , similar if not identical with the fungus affecting the teeth .
Billroth speaks of finding in the white fur of himself and of several patients , exquisite palmelloidal forms of Ascococcus and Glcecoccus colonies .
The object of this paper is to show that schizomycetes form the essential constituent of the fur , and to explain , as far as possible , some of the laws which govern the formation of far .
The tongue is kept clean by free movement and by being rubbed against the interior of the mouth , the gums , and the .
teeth ; but fur almost always exists upon its surface , both in health and in disease .
The fur is generally thickest in the morning before food is taken , and during illness , when the necessary cleansing is not properly performed .
It occurs , too , most abundantly in the centre and back part of the tongue , covering a triangular area immediately in front of the circum-vallate papillae , for this part of the tongue is most difficult to keep clean .
It occupies the papillary surface of the tongue , scarcely ever extending beyond it , and is , therefore , not found posterior to the circumvallate papillae .
It does not form a continuous layer unless it is exceedingly thick , but lies upon the tops of the filiform and some of the fungiform papillae .
In children the fungiform papillae are usually quite free from fur , but in adults the difference between the fungiform and filiform papillae is not nearly so well marked , and , with the exception of those situated near the apex of the tongue , the fungiform papillae are frequently coated .
Far forms upon the filiform papillae , because these papillae are rough and possessed of longer or shorter epithelial processes , to which foreign matters cling readily , and from which it is very difficult to dislodge them .
The fungiform papillae , on the contrary , are usually smooth and rounded on the summit , and even when large are easily kept clean .
1879 .
] On the Nature of the Fur on the Tongue .
485 The accompanying tables refer to the constancy of the presence of fur , to its thickness in health , and to its relation to the papillae .
Analysis of Cases examined .
On 68 healthy tongues\#151 ; fur on all except one .
On 178 tongues of persons suffering from disease or accident\#151 ; fur* on all except two .
Table showing relation of fur to papillae on 62 healthy tongues , with remarks on the age of the persons and the characters of the papillae .
Position of Fur .
No. of cases .
Age of Patients .
Remarks on Papillae .
On filiform papillae only .
On filiform and some fungiform papillae .
Equally on filiform and fungiform papillae .
41 18 3 22 under 20 years of age .
17 oyer 20 years of age\#151 ; 1 aet .
15 .
All over 20 years ... .
In all cases fungiform papillae small\#151 ; in 14 cases difficult to distinguish .
Fungiform papillae small or indistinguishable .
62 Table of thickness of the fur on 68 healthy tongues , with remarks on the papillae and the nature of the tongue .
Quantity of Fur .
No. of cases .
Papillae .
Condition of Tongue .
None 1 Scarcely any Tongue very smooth and supple .
Very thin 17 Scarcely any in 12 ... Very smooth and supple in 12 .
Thin 38 Moderately thin 10 Large and distinct in 8 .
" thick 2 Large and distinct ... Infirm old people , aet .
80 and 95 .
Thick 0 68 When thin the fur can only be scraped off with difficulty , and ralways brings with it numerous fragments of the hair-like processes which form the terminations of the filiform papillae .
But , when thicker , soft , and moist , it can be removed in considerable quantity with ease .
486 Mr. H. T. Butlin .
[ Apr. 24 , Microscopical examination of the results of such scraping gives , in nearly every instance , the same results .
1 .
Debris of food and bubbles of mucus and saliva .
2 .
Epithelium .
3 .
Masses which appear at first to consist of granular matter , but which are the gloea of certain forms of schizomycetes .
When large and closely packed they are of yellow or yellowish-brown colour , but when smaller and more loosely held together are almost colourless .
They are generally attached to portions of the hair-like processes which have come away with them , on account of the tenacity with which they adhere to the processes .
Vertical sections of hardened tongues show the relation of these masses to the filiform papillae better than mere scrapings of the surface of the tongue .
The filiform papillae , instead of exhibiting fine , clean , tapering processes , terminate in processes which are uneven , tuberculated , or beaded , and blunted at their ends , owing to the presence of these bodies .
Around the masses float free fungi , often exhibiting very active movement .
The relative proportion of the three constituents of fur varies under certain conditions .
The quantity of debris of food and bubbles is much greater during or immediately after eating than during fasting , although there is no corresponding increase of the fur at such times .
The epithelium is much more abundant in thin fur than in thick fur , its quantity depending rather upon the vigour with which the tongue " is scraped than upon the amount of fur present .
It can be obtained in just as great quantity where no fur is present , provided the tongue be closely scraped .
The schizomycefces are found in every case in which there is fur upon the surface of the tongue , and I have even found a little of the glcea where no fur was perceptible to the naked eye .
The quantity of glcea depends roughly upon the quantity of fur .
The position of the glcea corresponds with the position of the fur .
The fur dots the tops of the filiform papillae , and the gloea is attached to the processes of these papillae .
Fresh scrapings of fur show this relation of the gloea to the filiform papillae , but vertical sections of hardened tongues show more than this .
They show that the filiform papillae are the sole seat of the glcea , which does not exist between the papillae , and seldom upon the fungiform papillae .
Again , the colour and appearance of the thin grey fur corresponds with the colour and appearance of the thin grey pellicle which forms upon the surface of Bacterium-producing fluids , and as the latter becomes whiter and more opaque as it becomes thicker , so does the fur become whiter and more opaque with increased thickness .
A modification of colour is , however , frequently produced by the yellow or brownish-yellow tint of the glcea .
In order to ascertain the true nature of the gloea , and to obtain it in a much purer form than that in which it exists naturally upon the .
1879 .
] On the Nature of the Fur the Tongue .
487 surface of the tongue , I cultivated it upon a warm stage .
Minute portions of fur from different tongues were placed in a drop of aqueous humour , and kept at a temperature of 30 ' to 33 ' C. Free growth and development took place , but instead of the single fungus I had expected several fungi were found .
Only two forms , however , were present in every instance , namely , Micrococcus and , and , \lt ; from a comparison of the natural fur with results obtained by ' artificial cultivation , I think there can be little doubt that the fur l consists chiefly or essentially of these two fungi .
Micrococcus existed in every case examined , small spherical bodies { generally in pairs or groups of four , but often forming chains .
Upon the warm stage rapid multiplication took place with the production of pairs , fours , long and short chains often twisted and looped , and small .
and large colonies .
When these colonies reached a large size ( which happened in the course of a few hours ) they presented a granular appearance and assumed a yellow or brownish-yellow colour , and all movement ceased in them.* The development of Micrococcus occurred abundantly and rapidly in all the experiments made with the exception of one , in which so rapid a formation of Bacterium termo took place , that in the coarse of a few hours the whole of the fluid was clouded and obscured by its presence .
Usually the development of other fungi did not interfere with that of Micrococcus .
Comparing the masses or colonies produced by cultivation with the granular masses of which the fur chiefly consists , the chief constituent of each appears to be the Micrococcus sphere .
The natural colonies are , of course , not often so pure as those produced artificially , but still not uncommonly these natural colonies present the same regularity of structure as the colonies figured in sketch 5 .
The other form , Bacillus , was also present in every case examined , but unfortunately development seldom or never occurred , being apparently prevented by the presence of other fungi .
It consisted of slender rods , having a well-marked double contour and a light interior .
Their length varied much , but was always many times their breadth .
There were no defined contents within the rods , except in some of the longer and broader of them , which contained highly refractive-spherical bodies which appeared to be spores .
The shorter rods moved actively about the field of the microscope , and even some of the longer rods ( looking when magnified 450 times from inch to-1 inch long ) moved slowly from place to place .
The rods were generally straight , but some of the longer ones were curved or bent .
They often formed short chains or occurred in pairs , but did not form colonies , although they sometimes occurred in great number and of large size in the Micrococcus colonies .
They showed very little * I never observed any lengthening into rods , or the development of any other form from these Micrococci .
488 On the Nature of the Fur on the Tongue .
[ Apr. 24 , -change in appearance for many hours , sometimes for two or more days , after which they usually became granular and degenerated .
These bodies are apparently identical with the buccalis of Robin .
But I think they would be more rightly called Bacillus subtilis .
Their length , their slender form , the conditions in which they occur , and the fact of their non-development in the presence of other fungi point to this conclusion .
I made many attempts to separate them in order to produce the fungus in a purer form by cultivation , but did not succeed in doing so .
Although this fungus did not develop under artificial conditions in the presence of Micrococcus and other fungi it is highly , probable that its development takes place freely upon the surface of the tongue .
Its habitual presence there , generally in tolerable abundance , and the occurrence of spore-bearing filaments may be adduced as evidence in favour of this view .
Besides these fungi Bacterium termo existed in some of the furs examined , and twice developed with such rapidity that the whole of the fluid was crowded with these organisms to the exclusion of every other form .
Pairs , chains , and colonies were formed .
Sarcina ventriculi was frequently present and generally developed quickly .
It usually occurred in pairs or fours , and was easily recognisable by its large size , compared with the other organisms present , by the square or oblong form of its nuclei , by their faint yellow or red tint , and by the area of protoplasm surrounding the nuclei .
The groups of two or four moved slowly about the field of the microscope , but the large masses which were formed remained .quite motionless .
The masses attained so large a size as seriously to interfere with the growth of some of the other organisms , and when large showed a decided yellow , or brownish-yellow colour .
In two or three of the specimens there occurred rapid and very abundant development of a form of , which appeared from the double twist which it exhibited , and from its extreme tenuity , to be Spirochceta plicatilis .
Its growth took place from exceedingly small portions of the organism , and continued only at one end , which was in constant motion , whilst the other end remained stationary ; and as the growth progressed , large masses were formed which soon became so dense that it was impossible to discern the nature of the organism of which they were composed .
This Spirochoeta did not occur in most of the specimens examined .
A larger form of Spirillum was also occasionally present , but was not seen in the act of developing .
Although I believe the fur consists chiefly of and Bacillus subtilis , I think it is probable from the results obtained in the experiments upon which the foregoing observations are founded , that the .development of these other forms ( termo , Sarcina ventriJProc .
Roy Soc. Vol. 28 .
PI .
tO .
n \#166 ; o " West Hewmcm * C\#174 ; .
Fig.l .
Constituents ' of healthy fur .
( low power ) Fig.2,3 .
d ' highly 'magnified : ( x45Q .
) I " Westtfemoflai*G ?
imp IgiFi-g .
\lt ; ?
1 , 2 .
Sections of Epidermis-fur on filiform papillae ( oo 3 .
, olj.4 ) Bpioj !
3 , 4 .
Portions of Papillae with fur upon them .
( * 24*0 .
) proc .
Roy .
Soc. Vol.28 .
PI .
13 .
j Scurdnou .
\ V F13- 6 .
VUndQ , HfcrVj " Prfc Some results of cultivation ( *450 .
$scb\#171 ; k-* C ?
acy .
On the Abdominal Circulation in Man .
481\gt ; 1879 .
] culiy Spirochoeta plicatilis ) may often add considerably to its bulk , and may , perhaps , modify its characters under certain conditions .
The slime which exists around and between the teeth is composed of the same constituents as the fur on the tongue ; all the organisms which are found in the one are found also in the other .
Bacillus exists , however , in greater quantity in this tooth-slime than in the fur , and the rods and filaments are usually much longer in the tooth-slime , probably because they are not subjected to so much disturbance .
In conclusion I have to thank Dr. Burdon Sanderson and Dr. Lauder Brunton , for valuable suggestions , and for the kindly interest they have shown in this work .
A List of the principal Worhs relating to the Nature and Character of Tongue Fur .
1831 .
Piorry .
" Du Procede Operatoire .
" Paris , 1831 .
1845 .
Remak .
" Diagnostische und Pathologische Untersuchungen .
" Berlin , , 1845 , s. 221 .
1849 .
Pfeufer .
" Der Mundhohlenkatarrh .
" Henle u. Pfeufer .
Ztchffc .
f. RatMed .
, Bd .
7 , 1849 , s. 180 .
1850 .
Miquel .
" Untersuchungen iiber der Zungenbeleg .
" Prager Viertel Jahrschft .
, 1850 , Bd .
28 , s. 44 .
1853 .
Robin .
" Vegetaux Parasites.'* Paris , 1853 , p. 345 .
1861 .
Neidhardt .
" Mittheilungen iiber die Veranderungen der Zunge in Krank-heiten .
" Arch. d. Wissensch .
Heilkunde , Bd .
y , 1861 , s. 294 .
" Hyde Salter .
Todd 's " Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology .
" Art .
" Tongue .
" Yol .
iv , pt .
2 , p. 1161 .
1866 .
Hallier .
" Die Pflanzlichen Parasiten .
" Leipsig , 1866 .
1867 .
Kolliker .
" Handbuch der Gqwebelelire .
" 5th Auflage .
1867 .
Ss .
348\#151 ; 349 .
1873 .
Fairlie Clarke .
" Diseases of the Tongue .
" London , 1873 , p. 93 .
1874 .
Billroth .
" Coccobacteria septica .
" Berlin , 1874 , s. 94 .
" Robin .
" Lemons sir les Humeurs .
" Paris , 1874 , p. 550 .
1877 .
Koch .
" Unters uchnngen iiber Bacterien .
" Cohn 's Beitrage sir Biologic der Pflanzen , Bd .
II , Hf^ 3 , s. 399 .
II .
" Note on the Supplementary Forces concerned in the Abdominal Circulation in Man .
" By J. Braxton Hicks , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 20 , 1879 .
During the ordinary inspiratory effort , the descent of the diaphragm , most noticeable in the male , necessarily produces pressure on the abdominal viscera in contact with its lower surface ; these in their turn press down the intestines , which , acting as fluid enclosed in closed elastic sacs , press equally in all directions .
Thus during each descent the abdominal walls are projected forwards , as may be readily seen by adapting an instrument similar to a cardiograph resting on three feet ,

