]\gt ; V. Om -Shcets .
LAMB , , F.R.S. , Professor of in Victoria University .
Received Marcb 2 , \mdash ; Read Marc , 1887 .
IT is a problem of some interest in to determine the natural nodes of decay , and the corresponding persistencies , of free currents in a given conductor .
When this has been solved it is an easy matter to find the currents induced by given varying electromotive forces .
The general theory for a system of circuits is of course well knowrl .
If the variables , . . .
, which specify the currents , be so chosen that the electrokinetic energy and the dissipation-function are both expressed by sums of squares , say then ?
are for the present purpose the ' normal coordinates\ldquo ; of the system ; and the equations of motion of electricity are of the form where is the external electromotive force of the type in question .
In the of free currents , , and consequently where If we put then may be called the " " modulus of decay or the " " persistency , of free currents of this type .
In considering the effect of varying electromotive forces , it is convenient to suppose these expressed , as regards the time , in a series of simple harmonic terms , each of which may be taken separately .
Assuming , then , that , we have , for the induced current , 21 .
7 .
S7 1,32 ON LIPSOIDAL -SHEETS .
Fi - .
the ) of the currents lags behind that of the inducing electromotive force au ount 8 This .
llark as it of some } ) ortancem relation to the interesting question of the rotation of a conductor about an axis of metry in a constant metic field .
The netic potential of any normal will be proportional to or , where the azlmuth about the axis of , and is ( or zero ) .
If now , as in MAXWELL'S ' Electrlclty , ' , we employ coordinate with the conductor , the electromotive forces tive to these will vary as , where is the angular velocity of rotation .
On account of the symmetry about the axis , the retardation of phase above spoken of colTes to this , the tenl of currents of any normal type is , owing to its inertia , relatively to the field an angle arc ) , where is the lnodulus of decay proper to the type .
( See SS 7 , 16 , below .
) For other than linear conductors the problem above stated was first solved by in the case of infinite plane sheet of conductivity .
The cases of solid spherical and cylindric conductors , and of thin spherical and cylindric shells , have been treated by Prof. C. RAYLEIGH , and the writer .
It is remarkable that , with a certain exception , S no difference of electric potential , and consequently no surface distribution ] of electricity , is ] into existence during the of free in conductors of the forms mentioned .
In S 675 of his 'Electricity and ' MAXWELL has indicated a certain of clltrents over the ce of all ellipsoid , which produces a uniform gnetic field in the interior .
I do not that it has yet been noticed that this arrangement fulfils the conditions .
a natural mode of decay of free currents in a thin ellipsoidal film whose conductivity ( per unit area ) varies as the perpendicular the centre on the plane ; or , , in a thin shell of uniform material bounded by similar and coaxi , 1 ellipsoids .
This is proved in Part I. of the following aper ; and thence easily find the currents induced in such a shell when situate in a uniform netic field of .
intensity ; or , again , the induced by rotation of the shell in a uniform and constant field .
I have pted to thebe results and to the normal types of ents in a shell of the kind indicated .
In Part II .
is given the complete solution of this problem , the determination of the corresponding persistencies , il .
, 188 Rep 1882 .
, 1883 ; Soc. Proc vol. 15 , pp. 139 and 270 .
of rents of ' Second Typc\ldquo ; in a spherical collductor .
Such c.ul.rents cannot , , bc excited by \ldquo ; ESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL for the case where two of the axes of the ellipsoid equal , when the ' functions which naturally present themselves in such an investigation reduce to spherical harmonics , and so can be handled with comparative facility .
solution of the problem of induced currents can then be obtained in a very manner .
Of the special forms which the conducting shell may assume , the most interesting is that in which the third axis ( that of symmetry ) is infinitesimal , so that we have practically a circular disk whose resistance varies as , where is the distance of any point from the centre , and the radius .
In view of the physical interest attaching to the question , it would be desirable to have a solution for the case of a uniform circular disk rotating in any magnetic field ; but , in the absence of this , the solution the more special kind of disk here considered may not be uninstructive .
It appears that , except in the case of currents symmetrical about the axis , when the soid is one of revolution , there is always a surface distribution of electricity in the problems considered in this paper .
I. 1 .
If , be the components of electric current at any point of a thin conducting film ; , those of electric momentum at any poin of space ; the following conditions must be satisfied .
At all points external to the film we must , ( 1 ) where .
The functions , are everywhere continuous , but their derivatives are discontinuous at the film ; , we have where , are elements of the normal drawn from the film on the two sides .
If , satisfy the solenoidal condition over the film , these conditions ensure that ( 3 ) everywhere .
The electric potential satisfies equation at all points external to the film ; it is everywhere continuous , but its normal derivatives may be discontinuous at either or both of the surfaces of the film .
If be the resistance of the film , per ullit area , the equations of olectromotiv force are 1 : 4 UltR !
( 4 ) In these equations is pposed to have the value appropriate to the space included between the two surfaces of the film , which may differ in form the values which it has in the external space on either side .
any natural mode of decay the time occurs through a factor of the here is real positive .
The preceding equations then become .
( 5 ) 2 .
Let us apply this to the case of an ellipsoidal shell whose thickness varies as the from the centre on the tangent plane ; say it equaIs , where is a numerical constant .
be the specific of the material , we then have the semi-axes of the shell be , and let the axes of coordinates be taken along these .
In the most important type of free currents the lines of flow are in planes perpendicular to a principal .
If this axis be that of , the currentfunction over the surface of the ellipsoid is of the form The corresI)onding values of are The values of the internal space are abc C. ' corresponding values for the external space are obtained by placing the lower iimit of the lntegrals by the positive root of .
( 7 ) LA ON PSOl T These values of ; they are continuous at the , and their normal deri vatives tisfy ( 2 ) .
We now find that the equations ( 5 ) are satisfied , assu ) .
the of the electric potential within substance of the film , . . . . .
( 8 ) and properly determine A. If we write , for short less , equations in question reduce to whence for the " " persistency\ldquo ; we have Also ( 10 ) The value ( 8 ) of will obtain the internal cavity of the ellipsoid , but in the external space we shall have the lower limit being defined by ( 7 ) .
continuity of at the outer surface of the requires .
Unless , there will be a distribution of electricity over the outer surface , density being determined by where is the specific inductive capacity of the rnedium , , for inslance , ' ' Spherical oniC chap .
13( ; SSOR IT .
II3 ON CURRENT-SHEETS .
denote elements of normal , drawn the surfac on the two sides .
Since , we find without difficulty .
( 12 ) 3 .
Some particular cases of the formula may be noticed .
For a spherical shell we have thence which is right .
FOF an ellipsoid of revolution ( 13 ) when the currents are symmetrical l'oulld the axis ; whilst , in the case of currents in planes parallel to the axis , .
( 14 ) For form we have ' ( 15 ) for the oblate form in case excentricity of the section , Again , if we make , we get elliptic ' homoeoidal\ldquo ; cylinder .
We then have : * tricity.'S43S .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL -SHEETS .
so that for the case of currents circulating round the cylinder ( I 8 ) The surface density of free electricity is then given by For a circular cylinder ( 18 ) gives . .
which is right .
For currents parallel to the axis of the cylinder , ( 20 ) If in ( 18 ) or ( 20 ) we make infinite , we get the case of two uniform parallel plane sheets at a distance apart .
The persistency of uniform parallel straight currents flowing in opposite directions in the two planes is then ( 21 ) 4 .
Such special results as these may , of course , be obtained more easily by independent processes .
Thus for a cylindrical shell of any form , if a current of strength circulate round each unit length , the magnetic induction in the interior is parallel to the axis and equal to .
Hence , if be the resistance of uuit length to currents circulating round it , , where is the area of the crosssection .
This gives . . . . . . . . .
For a " " homoeoidal\ldquo ; cylinder we have , if be an element of the elliptic contour , and the " " excentric angle ab IIDCCCLXXXVII .
' whence giving , ofcourse , the same value ( 18 ) of as before .
If we wish to determine , not merely the persistency , but also the ibution of free electricity , we may proceed somewhat as follows .
Taking the case of an elliptic cylinder , and resolving parallel to the principal axes , we have , as before , and , at the surface , \mdash ; My where , have the values ( 17 ) .
Resolving in the direction of the current , The resistance is here supposed independent of , but is otherwise unrestricted .
Introducing the excentric angle , we , since C. ( 23 ) from to which agrees with ( 22 ) .
The value of over the film is found by integration of ( 23 ) , being supposed a known function of .
We can then find two functions which satisfy and are finite , \amp ; c. , throughout the interior and exterior spaces respectively , and coincide at the film with value just indicated .
Again , within the substance of the film itself , the electromotive force in the direction of the normal must be zero .
This gives or , ( 24 ) PROFESSOR H. ON LLTPSOIDAL C where dS is an element of the thickness of the film , directed towards the outer If , be the ties of free electricity at the inner and outer surfaces respectively , we then have ( 25 ) I ' , denoting , as before , elements of the normal , drawn from the film , on the inside and outside respectively .
For the case of a homoeoidal cylinder this process leads to the result already obtained .
For other laws of thickness there will , in general , be a distribution of electricity on both surfaces of the film .
5 .
Another case of interest is obtained by supposing ilffinitesimal , so that the conductor may be taken to be an elliptic disk whose resistance per unit area varies according to the law In the case of a circular disk the formula ( 13 ) is replaced by where we may put ' Hence ( 26 ) find , however , that in the case of a film bounded by confocal cylinders the inner surface alone becomes electrified .
The symbol here refers to the disk .
Since this is the limit of a double film , its resistance at any point is half that of the corresponding portion of the film on either side .
For an elliptic disk where is the semi-maior axis , the excentricity , and the complete elliptic integral of the second kind .
This gives any point is proportional to for many reasons to have a solution for the case of a uniform , but events the above result shows that the time-constant of a disk of uniform resistance must be considerably less than .
I find , similar to those employed in Lord RAYLEIGH'S ' Sound ' value lies between and , the latter value being nob emoved from the truth .
* For a disk of copper whose radius is a decimetre and thickness a this lower limit sec. For disks of different dimensions the result will vary as the radius and the thickness conjointly .
6 .
Let us next calculate currents induced in a homoeoidal shell when situate in a uniform netic field of varying nsity .
It is sufficient to consider the where the lines of force are parallel to a principal axis .
Also the expression for the netir , force may be supposed resolved , as regards the time , into a series of rmonic t of which may be taken separately .
Putting , then , denoting , the components of vector potential due to the field , we write uced currents will be of the type ' ( f , he corresponding onents of electric momentum at the film will be ' tuting in the equations , \amp ; .
, \amp ; .
, LC *[ ' Boy .
Soc. Pro vol. 42 , 1887 , p. 294 .
] PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
or , by ( 9 ) , .
( 27 ) The retardation of phase of the induced currents relatively to the romotive forces of the field is arc , as usual .
When is very great in comparison with this is equal to .
Since the magnetic force in the interior of the shell , due to the currents alone , is given by we see that in this case the currents just neutralise , in the interior , the magnetic action of the field , in accordance with a well-known principle .
7 .
Take next the case where the shell rotates with constant angular velocity about a principal axis ( z ) in a uniform and constant magn etic field .
It is shown in MAXWELL'S ' Electricity , ' S 600 , that the problem is the same if we suppose the shell to be fixed , and the field rotate in the opposite direction , provided we add to the electric potential the function .
( 28 ) First let us suppose the lines of force to be perpendicular to the axis of rotation , so that we may write for the components of the field I pt , I pr , ; whence ( 29 ) if , as usual , we retain in the end only the real parts .
Hence the solution of our problem follows by superposition from the results of the preceding section .
omitting the time-factor , we assume for the current-function which gives .
( 30 ) SSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
The corresponding values of , at the film are ' \mdash ; DLx ( 31 ) If we further nssume ( 32 ) and substitute in the ) \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. ; then , ting coefficients , we obtain the following four equations to determine N. N. . . . . . . .
( 33 ) L. M. \mdash ; Hence If denote the tenci e of free curl'ents of the types respectively , these be Wl.itten ( 34 ) The ponents of nebic force within the shell , due to the currents alone , are found to } ) so that we have for the total magnetic field inside .
( 35 ) These diminish indefinitely as increases .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
If we write and restore the time-factor , the expression for the current-functio ] ] becomes , on discarding the imaginary part , .
( 36 ) The currents flow at any instant in a system of ellipses whose planes are parallel to one another and to the axis of rotation .
When the ellipsoid is one of revolution about we have .
The planes of the currents are dragged as it were , in the direction of the rotation of the shell , through a constant angle ] from the direction of the magnetic force in the inducing field , in accordance with a general principle pointed out at the beginning of this paper .
8 .
When the lines of force are parallel to the axis of rotation there are no induced currents , but only a superficial ibution of electricity .
The calculation of this distribution involves assumptions which vary with the particular theory of electromagnetism adopted ; and even MAXWELL'S theory has been differently interpreted in this respect by different writers .
It may be well , therefore , to state with some care the here taken .
Considering , for the sake of simplicity , the case of , solid conductor rotating in a field of uniform intensity about an axis ( z ) parallel to the lines of force , and supposing the axes of , to move with the solid , then , on the hypothesis that there are no currents , we have , throughout the interior , , ( 37 ) whilst in the surrounding dielectric ( taken to be sensibly at rest ) case of a spherical shell has been discussed by C. NIVEN and J. LARMOR , ' Phil. Mag. , ' Jan. , 1884 .
has considered the currents indnced by rotation of a ellipsoid ( see STEwAIt and TAIT , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc ol .
15 , 1867 , p. , leaving out of account , however , the mutual action of the currents themselves .
This is equivalent to supposing the period of rotation to be long in comparison with the modulus of decay of free currents .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON F , LLIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHHiETS .
, ( 38 ) here f , are the components of dielectric polarisation , and the specific inductive capacity .
We have also the solen oidal condition .
( 39 ) It is to be carefully borne in mind that nothing is krown of the function beyond what is contained in these equations , except that it is everywbere continuous .
The relations of may be deduced from these equations by putting .
In the present problem we have const . . . . . . . .
( 40 ) throughout the conductor , whilst in the external space satisfies the equation with the conditions that its value at the surface shall agree with ( 40 ) and its first derivatives vanish at infinity .
The surface density is then given by .
( 41 ) where , are the direction-cosines of the element of the normal drawn outwards .
solution of this problem for an ellipsoidal conductor is obtained by an adaptation of the results given by FERRERS Spherical monics , chapter .
I do not think it worth while to transcribe these , as the result for the more specially interesting case of an ellipsoid of revolution , and in particular for a circular disk , is given below in S15 .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL 9 .
The result of S2 can be generalised , and it can be shown that the different normal types of free currents in a homoeoidal shell are obtained by equating the current-function to the LAMt'S functions of various orders .
But it may be sufficient here to consider the case where two of the axes of the shell are equal , when the functions in question reduce to spherical harmonics .
Taking first the case where the ellipsoid is of the prolate form , we transform to elliptic coordinates or by , ( 42 ) the axis of being that of sy1nmetry .
The value of may range from \mdash ; 1 to that of from 1 to .
The surfaces const .
are confocal ellipsoids of revolution , whose semi-axes are the distance between the common foci being .
The value of for the surface of the shell will be distinguished , where necessary , by The perpendicular on the tangent plane at point of the shell is ( 4.3 ) LAPLACE'S equation transforms into .
( 44 ) Considered as a function of may lo expanded in a series of spherical harmonics whose coefficients are functions of , and it is easily seen that each term of the expansion must separately satisfy ( 44 ) .
Taking first the case of the zonal harmonic , if we put .
where 2 .
4 , ( 45 ) we find , . . . . .
( 46 ) PROFLSSOR H. LAMB ON LLIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
showing that must be a zonal harmonic of order , of the first or second kind .
We thus obtain the solutions . . . .
( 47 ) where denotes the zonal harmonic of the second kind , .
:\mdash ; ' \mdash ; . . .
, .
( 48 ) The former of the solutions ( 47 ) is appropriate to the space inside the shell , the latter to the external In like manner , whel ] involves , we have the solutions ( 49 ) 10 .
Proceeding now to the problem of free currents , we shall show that the condifor a norlnal type are satisfied whenever , considered as a function of and * The following values of the first fonr solid al.monlCS this type , expressed in terms of have here only recapitulated , for purposes of ref the tions ( , ( 49 ) .
For details see HEINE 'Ku 1 poses re erence , the principal steps in the deduction of FFiItrtE , ' Spherical monics , chap .
functionen , ' vol. 2 , part , chap . .
; or The following are the values of few of the more .
the of equations ( 49):\mdash ; solid harmonics of the form given by : : : : : , : : SSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOII)AL is a zonal , tessaral , or sectorial harmonic of integral order .
Since any arbitrary value of can be expanded in a series of such hat.monics , the results thus obtained will enable us to represent the decay of any initial distribution of current whatever .
If , be linear elements drawn on the along a meridian and a parallel of latitude respectivel .
, . . . . .
( 50 ) the current may be resolved into the components along the meridian , towards the positive pole ; and along the parallel , in the direction of increasing .
Take , first , the case of the zonal harmonic . . . . . . .
( 51 ) The currents then flow in circles round the axis of , the strength of the current at any point being . . . . . .
( 52 ) If be the magnetic potential due to these currents , we have with the conditions that at the surface ( the suffixes denoting the values on the two sides ) , whilst the normal derivative is continuous .
Assuming , . . . . . . . .
( 5d ) the surface conditions give ; whence , in virtue of the relation , ( 54 ) we find ( 55 ) . .
to the symmetry about the axis , there will be no difference of electric potential , and the electromotive force of induction will be everywhere the direction of the current .
The maonetico .
induction across any element of the surface will be .
( 56 ) Substituting from ( 53 ) , and integrating over the portion of the surface bounded by a parallel of latitude and including the positive pole , we find for the total induction through the parallel C. If the system of currents defined by ( 51 ) remain always similar to itself , the electromotive force a parallel is equal t , o of this .
The electromotive force at a point is derived by dividing by .
Since we obtain in way .
( 57 ) this to where has the value ( 52 ) , and , we find that all the conditions of the problem are satisfied , provided where \amp ; .
( 58 ) prove in a similar manner that in the case of an ellipsoidal shell with unequal axes agnetised everywhere in the direction of the normal so that the " " strength\ldquo ; is proportional to a 's function , the potential on either side is everywhere proportional to PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL Since this gives , for ; or , putting , ( 59 ) which agrees with ( 13 ) .
For , I find .
( 60 ) The case of a spherical shell may be deduced from ( 58 ) by making .
For large values of we need only retain the first terms of the series in ( 45 ) , ( 48 ) .
In this way we reproduce the known result .
11 .
The simplest plan of dealing with the case where the current-function is a tessaral or sectorial harmonic is to consider the current round any infinitely small circuit bounded by meridians and parallels .
If , be the components of electric momentum along a meridian and a parallel respectively , we have ; ( 61 ) or , putting ' ( 62 ) Eliminating .
( 63 ) . . .
( 67 ) for the spaces inside and outside the shell respectively .
If we write , for shortness , , . . . .
( 68 ) the conditions to be satisfied at the surface of the shell give ; whence , . . . . .
( 69 ) PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLTPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
the reduction being effected by the formula ( 70 ) Hence the right-hand side of ( 63 ) ( 71 ) by ( 64 ) and ( 69 ) .
( b5 ) and ( 71 ) , we see that the assumption ( 64 ) satisfies the conditions of a normal type , and that the corresponding modulus of decay is ( 72 ) The accuracy of this result may be tested by putting , when we obtain the correct result for the case of a spherical shell .
The case of the sectorial harmonic is obtained by putting in ( 72 ) .
When , in which case , we obtain ; or , writing which will be found to with ( 14 ) .
The results ( 58 ) and ( 72 ) were originally obtained by a method more analogous to that of S2 , the currents and the electric momentum being resolved parallel to This method is much longer than thab here given , and involves the determination of *TODHUNTEI , ' Functions of LAPLACE , \amp ; c S 109 .
the electric potential .
It be while , however , to record the alue of thus obtained for the included between the two surfaces of the film , .
:\mdash ; , . . .
( 73 ) where and constants .
The of ( 73 ) corresponds to a distribution of electricity on the surface of the , the second to a distribution on the inner .
In the case of the sectorial harrnonic , 12 .
When the shell is of the oblate form , the elliptic coordinates to be employed are as follows .
We write siinn csions , ( 74 ) where may from to .
The surfaces const .
are confocal ellipsoids of revolution , the extreme case a circular disk of radius in the plane Comparing these equations with ( 42 ) , we see that they may be obtained by writing for and for .
The equation therefore becomes .
( 75 ) The type of tions symmetrical about the axis is .
where .
( 76 ) One integral of this is ; ( 77 ) FERRERS , ' Spherical Harmonics , ' chap .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON LLlPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
this becomes infinite for .
The second solution is ' arc ) ' , ( 78 ) the latter expansion , however , being only convergent when .
This function vanishes at infinity .
Hence we have the following solutions of ( 75 ) : , ( 79 ) the former being appropriate to the space inside the ellipsoid , the latter to the external space .
* In like manner , when V involves we have the solutions ( 80 ) It seems unnecessary to go through the details of the investigations corresponding to those of SS10 , 11 .
The results are , for the zonal harmonic , .
, ( 81 ) and , for the tessaral harmonic , ' ( 82 ) * The second solution is finite even when , but its space derivatives are infinite at the focal IDCCCLXXXVII. .
X where PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
When , ( S1 ) becomes ; or , putting , ( 83 ) which agrees with ( 13 ) .
13 .
If we make infinitesimal , we get results applicable to a circular disk , of the kind considered in S 5 , provided be odd .
Putting , and where is ultimately made to vanish , the formulae for the symmetrical currents become , ( 84 ) ' ( 85 ) where denotes the distance of any point of the disk from the centre .
For smaU values of we have , being odd , whence ( 86 ) For , this gives as in S 5 .
The persistencies of the successiye symmetrical types are as 1 , , \amp ; .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL CURRENT .
SHEETS .
For the tessaral harmonic .
( 87 ) where , we have From the series ( 77 ) we find , without difficulty , being odd .
Also from the second line of ( 78 ) , under the same restriction , when .
Hence ( 88 ) The most important of the types ( 87 ) is that in which , when 14 .
The methods of SS10 , 11 , might be applied to determine the currents induced .
by simple harmonic variations of a magnetic field ; but it is unnecessary to go throug the calculations , as the result can be written down at once from the following considerations .
We must first suppose the magnetic potential due to the field to be expanded , for the space near the conductor , in a series of terms of the forms given by the first lines of ( 47 ) and ( 49 ) ; or of ( 79 ) and ( S0 ) , as the case may be .
Each of these terms will act by itself , and produce a current-function of the type ( 51 ) or ( 64 ) .
Now , in S11 , the equation of free currents of any normal type was brought to the form , . . .
( 89 ) current lines are the orthogonal projections on the plane of the contour lines of spherical harmonics drawn on a sphere of radius F. E. NEUMANN has shown ( ' Crelle , ' vol. 37 ) how to expand the potential of a single magnetic pole in this way .
resistance , and the -hand side as the electromotive force of induction due to the decay of the currents .
If be the modulus of decay of the type in question , Now let represent a fictitious distribution of current over the ellipsoid , which shall have the same magnetic effect in the interior as the actual inducing field .
This distribution is foumd at once from ( 69 ) .
The equation of induced currents will then be or .
( 90 ) When the free currents have died away all our functions will vary as , where measures the rapidity of the changes in the field .
Substituting in ( 90 ) , we find .
( 91 ) When is very great this becomes The result ( 91 ) may be verified in the problem of S6 .
15 .
Let us next consider the rotation of the shell in a constant field .
There will be no currents due to those terms in the expansion of which are zonat solid harmonics ; the only effect of these being a certain surface electrification .
We may complete the investigation of S8 by finding the density of this electrification in the case of an oblate ellipsoid of reyolution rotating in a uniform field about an axis parallel to the lines of force .
We have to find a function which shall have the value . . . . . . . . .
( 92 ) at the surface of the conductor , and shall satisfy throughout the external space .
Denoting by the equatorial radius , ( 92 ) may be put in the form . . . . . .
( 93 ) Hence in the external space .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON LIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
But and .
Hence , by ( 41 ) , For the case of a disk we have , as in S5 , , and where is ultimately made .
Also whence .
( 94 ) The total charge on both surfaces of the disk is .
The constant is of course to be determined by the other conditions of the problem .
If the axis of the disk be ulated , we shall have 16 .
The only terms in the value of which give rise to sensible currents in a rotating disk are those tessaral solid harmonics for which is odd .
If the value of , referred to fixed axes , be .
( 95 ) the corresponding value of will be ( 96 ) where , by the formulae analogous to ( 69 ) , 1 3 . . .
( 97 ) If now , to use MAXWELL'i3 artifice , we pass to axes of , moving with the disk , we must write , where is the angular velocity of the rotation .
For the trigonometrical term at the end we may write ) if we retain in the end only the real part .
Hence for the induced currents we have , by ( 91 ) , where is the persistency of free currents of the type .
Putting we find , finally , on returning to fixed axes of .
( 98 ) The system of currents is stationary in space , but is displaced relatively to the field by a greater or less angle arc according to the speed of rotation .
The maximum value of this is for a sufficiently rapid rotation .
* This represents a fictitious distribution of currents which would iv at all oints of the disk the glve at all poin same normal force as the actual field .
PROFESSOR H. LAMB ON ELLIPSOIDAL CURRENT-SHEETS .
The most important type of induced currents is got by putting , in ( 95 ) .
In this case so that the lines of force at the disk are normal to it , but the direction of the force is reversed as we cross the axis of .
The current-function relatively to axes displaced through the proper angle varies as The current-lines for this case are shown in the figure .
The signs indicate where the normal force due to the field is towards or from the spectator .
In the next type we have , so that , and the current-function ( relatively to displaced axes as before ) varies as may be shown that , referred to the same axes , the potential varies as .
The equipotential lines are not orthogonal to the current-lines , except in the case of the circle Note added June 30 , 1887 .
]

