1884.1 On Limnocodium Sowerbii , Allman and 9 mesentery of the transverse colon before it becomes related to the omentum ) .
The colic arteries are briefly dismissed with the exception of the middle ; this vessel is discussed at greater length owing to the doubts which exist concerning the development and .anatomy of the transverse mesocolon .
An attempt is made to refute the adhesion theory advocated by Haller , and to explain how it is quite possible for the mesocolon to consist of two layers instead of four .
In conclusion the following principles are deduced :\#151 ; First .
That the arteries of the abdomen , including the splenic and hepatic , were originally derived from the dorsal aorta for the supply of the midgut .
Second .
That they reach their destinations by passing through the mesentery .
Third .
That they participate in all the changes the mesentery undergoes .
Fourth .
That if an organ is developed in the mesentery or from the gut , it will obtain part at least of its blood " supply from the vessels of the mesentery or gut , and that these will conform to the preceding rules .
It is finally remarked that although these observations have only been applied to the human subject , yet they appear so simple and so likely to be true that it is probable that they have a rdueh wider applicability .
IV* " On the Occurrence of a Hydroid Phase of Limnocodium Sowerbii , Allman and Lankester .
By Alfred Gibbs Bourne , Assistant Professor of Zoology in University College , London .
Communicated by E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1884 .
It is now four and a-half years since the Medusas of Limnocodium were discovered by Mr. Sowerby , in the Victoria tank in the gardens 'Of the Royal Botanic Society , at Regent 's Park .
Since that time Professor Lankester has continued to make observations and experiments , in which I have assisted , with the view of elucidating their life-history and the conditions of their somewhat anomalous occurrence .
" We discovered , however , nothing which threw any light upon the subject .
On November 27th we had an opportunity of seeing the tank at the Botanical Gardens , immediately after the withdrawal of the water , and I then collected and examined at Professor Lankester s request a large quantity of the sediment and portions of various roots and other submerged objects .
Prof. A. G. Bourne .
On a Hydroid Phase of [ Dec. llr The Hydroid Form .
I discovered upon some of the root filaments of the plants of Pontederia which were growing in the tank in great profusion , an organism , which in its method of growth somewhat resembles an encrusting sponge .
It occurs very abundantly upon some of the roots , and is not to be found upon others .
I am unfortunately unable to say whether the roots upon which it occurs were near together or scattered through the tank .
I have not seen it upon any young roots , while on the other hand it is most abundant upon the oldest and blackest roots .
Where most abundant there are four or five Fig. 1 .
Hy droid forms of Limnocodium Sowerbii* It .
Hoot filament of Pontederia ; A , B , C. Colonies of various sizes ; IX Portion^ of a Hydroid in optical section , slightly diagrammatic ; JEct .
Ectoderm ; End* Endoderm ; m. umouthnem .
Nematocysts ; jp .
Perisarcal tube of adventitious-particles .
1884.1 Limnocodium Sowerbii , A liman and Lankester .
pieces of different size and shape upon any one filament .
The smallest pieces are mere knobs , and about TV of an inch long ; the largest are prolonged into three or four lobes , about of an inch- long .
No tentacles are present .
They may develop subsequently .
The basal portion tends slightly to spread over its area of attachment , this portion half encircling a root-filament .
There is no trace of a true perisarc , but the surface is covered with particles of mud and other debris , which become glued together by some secretion of the animal , and form a sort of tubular casing .
In some specimens which I have mounted I have observed this casing slipping off , owing to shrinkage of the animal .
The tip of a lobe usually projects beyond this tube , but sometimes in specimens placed in cold water it withdraws itself sluggishly into the tube .
The organism does not exhibit any active movement , but upon irritation there is a slight contraction , such as described above , and accompanying this there may be an expulsion of fluid and minute particles from the extremity of each lobe , demonstrating the existence of an aperture to each , which presumably serves as a mouth .
The animal throws off nematocysts when irritated .
Preparations of the stained animal mounted whole and serial sections have revealed further points in its structure .
The ectoderm cells are fairly uniform throughout , and present numerous nematocysts .
The endoderm cells are much modified in the " mouth " region , i.e. , at the apex of each lobe , being set very closely together , and staining very deeply with carmine .
In preserved specimens there is only a very minute lumen , leading from the terminal aperture .
Lower down the endoderm cells have a clear swollen appearance , and almost fill up the enteric cavity .
In the basal region the endoderm cells are normal , and the cavity is well developed , and may contain particles .
The peculiar arrangement of endoderm cells near the apex may have no special significance , but it somewhat suggests in appearance the rudiment of a sub-umbrella found in such forms as Hyd/ roctinia , Podocoryne , and Sippopodius , figured by Ed. Van Beneden , and more recently by Weissmann.* Structures resembling Puds produced by the Medusiform Persons .
During the summer of 1883 I discovered both in water taken direct from , the tank at the Botanic Gardens and in jars in which the Medusas had been kept alive for some time , minute vesicles consisting of ectodermic and endodermic layers , surrounding a closed central * Die Entstehung der Sexualzellen bei den Hydromedusen .
Prof. A. G. Bourne .
On a Hydroid Phase of [ Dec. 11 , cavity in which , particles were apparently undergoing digestion .
Between the ectoderm and endoderm more or less gelatinous tissue was always developed , separating the two layers .
I was prevented from carrying my observations very far , owing to the sudden disappearance of all the Medusae from the tank .
I therefore propose to reserve further details for a future occasion .
It may , however , be useful as a guide for further observations if I state that I ascertained these vesicles to be formed by a nipping off of the genital sac after the liberation of the ripe spermatozoa .
I kept these vesicles in isolated vessels and examined them from day to day for four or five days , during which they underwent certain changes , but these changes were somewhat irregular , an irregularity owing possibly to the unfavourable conditions , possibly to the lateness of the season , all Medusae being about to disappear .
The mere fact that all the Medusae I could keep long enough under observation threw off all their genital sacs in a similar way , and that these vesicles lived for so long a time without disintegrating , points to this being some regular process of reproduction .
I repeated part of these observations during last summer , but was unable to continue them , owing to the short period during which the Medusae flourished this year .
History of Limnocodium to the Present Date .
The following table gives the history of Limnocodium up to the present date .
For many of these dates I am indebted to Mr. Sowerby .
March 1879 .
Pontederia plant introduced into the tank ( R.B.S. ) .
March 15,1880 .
Tank ( R.B.S. ) filled after remaining empty during .
the winter . .
June 10 , 1880 .
Adult and very young Medusae observed in immense numbers .
July 31 , 1880 .
Medusae had all disappeared .
Dec. , 1880 .
Tank ( R.B.S. ) emptied , damp mud and roots only being left .
March 17,1881 .
Tank ( R.B.S. ) filled .
June 12 , 1881 .
A few adult Medusae observed ; swarms of young .
June 16 , 1881 .
About eight adult Medusae , numerous young forms , and some mud , transferred in a jug of water to the Victoria Tank at Kew .
June 25 , 1881 .
All Medusae vanished at Regent 's Park .
Aug. 18 , 1881 .
Adult Medusae swarmed at Kew .
Sept. 30 , 1881 .
Kew tank contained adult forms only .
Oct. 15 , 1881 .
Kew tank emptied , and a few Medusae only seen .
1884 .
] Limnocodium Sowerbii , Allman and Lankester .
18 March 10,1882 .
Tank filled at Regent 's Park .
No Medusae observed anywhere during this year ( 1882 ) .
March 8 , 1883 .
Tank filled at Regent 's Park .
April 28 , 1883 .
Medusae appeared at Regent 's Park , adult and young .
July 13 , 1883 .
Nipping off of spheres from the genital sacs first noticed .
July 14 , 1883 .
Ten adult Medusae in clean water transferred to-Kew .
These were never seen again .
July 25 , 1883 .
All Medusae disappeared .
The tank at Regent 's Park was not emptied during this winter .
April 27 , 1884 .
Two specimens of adult Medusae observed at Regent 's Park .
May 28 , 1884 .
Adult and young Medusae next observed , and in great numbers .
June 20 , 1884 .
Very few Medusae observed .
June 30 , 1884 .
Medusae almost had disappeared .
Nov. 28 , 1884 .
Hydriform organism seen on roots when tank at Regent 's Park was emptied .
Nov. 30 , 1884 .
Pontederia root bearing hydroid placed in Kew tank .
Dec. 1 , 1884 .
Tank refilled at Regent 's Park .
General Remarks .
That this new and in many ways most remarkable hydroid , appearing in fresh water in great quantities , in the tank where Limnocodium appeared , and upon the roots of a plant which was introduced just before Limnocodium appeared , is a phase in the life-cycle of Limnocodium seems so highly probable , that we may take it for granted at present .
Incontestable proof will , I hope , be furnished next spring by tracing its further development .
As it seems extremely probable that during next summer we may be able to explain fully the life-cycle of this most interesting organism , it is not necessary to devote much time now to speculating upon what that cycle will probably be .
The connexion of the organism with , first suggested by Professor Lankester , seems to be borne out by the fact that only upon the Pontederia roots can we find the hydroid form .
That the Limnocodium did not establish itself at Kew may be owing to the fact that there was no Pontederia in that tank .
In dealing with the hydroid form here described , we must remember that Limnocodium is undoubtedly one of the Trachomedusae .
No trachyline form has before this been shown to be connected with any hydroid condition , but we know less about the Trachomedusse than 14 Mr. J. Starkie Gardner .
Fossil Plants and the [ Dec. 18 , about the Medusae derived from Gymnoblastic or Calyptoblastic hydroids .
Direct development has been shown to occur in two or three genera of the Trachylinse ( , JEJgineta , \amp ; c. ) , whereas regarding the life-cycle of the other forms we know nothing .
The hydroid here described is now in an immature condition .
It may be a creeping stolon , which when further developed will resemble other hy droids ; it may turn out not to be comparable to other hydroids , and to be a fixed sporosac of some kind ; but if it grows into an adult form resembling the form at present known , it may serve as the type of a new group of hydroids related to the Trachyline Medusoids .
December 18 , 1884 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
It was announced that the question of the re-admission into the Society of Mr. James Bateman would be put to the vote at the next meeting .
The Chairman gave notice that the President had appointed as Vice-Presidents\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Mr. Warren de la Rue-Sir Frederick Evans .
Professor W. H. Flower .
Sir Joseph Hooker .
Pursuant to notice , Mr. Alfred Cornu and Professor James Dwight Dana were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Evidence of Fossil Plants regarding the Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the North-East Atlantic .
" By J. Starkie Gardner .
Communicated by Sir J. D. Hooker , K. C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1884 .
In the following communication I desire to make known to the Society some of the results which I obtained by means of grant given to me by the Government Grant Committee .
Brief and incomplete

