March 15 , 1849 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled '"Researches in Physical Geology .
" Part II .
By Henry HIennessy , Esq. Communicated by Major Beamrish , F.R.S. In this communication the author states that , having in Part I. ( read to the Society in December 1846 ) endeavoured , by generalizing the hypothesis on which is usually founded the theory of the earth 's figure , not only to improve that theory , but also to establish a secure basis for researches into the changes which may have taken place , within and at the surface of the earth , during the epochs of its geological history , his object here is to discover relations between the interior structure of the earth and phenomena observed at its surface , and also the effects of the reaction of the fluid nucleus , described in Part I. , upon the solid crust .
This memoir is divided into sections , each containing a distinct investigation ; and the statement of the geological results is given at the end .
I. The Pressures of the Shell and Nucleus at their surface of contact .
In the investigation of these pressures the earth is supposed to consist of a nucleus of fluid matter enclosed in a solid shell , the inner and outer surfaces of which are spheroidal , but nearly spherical ; and both shell and nucleus are supposed to consist of strata varying in density according to some unknown inverse law of the radii .
The pressure at the inner surface of the shell is conceived to be due to a constant pressure , which is the same for every point , and a variable pressure , arising from the difference in form of the surface of the nucleus and inner surface of the shell .
On these suppositions , simple expressions for the pressure on any stratum of the nucleus and on the shell 's inner surface are deduced .
II .
The Variation of Gravity at the earth 's surface .
The author does not assume in this investigation that the laws of arrangement of the particles composing the shell and the nucleus are necessarily the same ; so that the expression which he obtains for gravity at any point on the earth 's surface , besides being a function of the latitude of that point , and of the radii and ellipticities of the shell 's inner and outer surfaces , contains functions depending on the constitution of the shell and nucleus .
I-He states that this expression for gravity is not merely speculative , but that it will be found to assist in explaining certain apparent anomalies detected by observation in the variation of gravity at the earth 's surface , as well as in pointing out the limits assigned by observation to the thickness of the crust .
III .
The Laws of Density of the Shell and Nucleus .
According to the author 's views in a subsequent section , it appears that the solidification of the earth could not proceed simultaneously from the centre towards the surface , and from the surface towards the centre .
He therefore , in determining the laws of density of the shell and the nucleus , restricts his investigations to the latter case , in which the solidification proceeds from the surface towards the centre .
IV .
The Forms of the Strata of the Shell .
The author conceives a surface to exist which may be called the effective surface of separation of the perfect fluid of the nucleus and the imperfectly fluid portion adhering to the shell , the form of which surface will depend on the pressures which the fluid exerts .
As it may be shown that the pressure of the perfect fluid will not be constant , the surface of separation will tend to assume a form different from that of the inner surface of the shell .
If we admit that the matter composing the nucleus becomes denser in assuming the solid state , the author concludes that the inner surface of each stratum added to the shell will be more oblate than its outer surface ; and that thus the tendency will always be to render the inner surface of the shell more and more oblate .
He then deduces an expression for the ellipticity of the fluid surface .
V. The principal lIoments of Inertia of the Earth .
From his investigations the author concludes that , as the thickness of the shell increases , the difference between the greatest and the least moment of inertia of the earth also increases ; which conclusion is independent of any knowledge of the absolute laws of density of the earth 's interior .
VI .
On the existence of a'Solid Nucleus within the Earth .
The conclusion arrived at here is , that if a solid nucleus existed , as the pressure on it would be continually diminishing , while its temperature would remain nearly constant , this nucleus , instead of increasing in magnitude , would tendt to return to its original fluid state .
VII .
The directions of the Fissures in the Shell which might be produced by the action of the pressures in Section I. The author states that the tenden:ey of the variable pressure is in the first instance to produce fissures parallel to the equator ; that when such a fissure was once commenced the tendency would be to propagate it along a parallel of latitude , until the force of the tensions became sufficiently lessened by the separation of the extended portion of the shell ; and that similar fissures would be formed simultaneously and symmetrically o6i each side of the equator .
Subsequently , as may readily be deduced from Mr. Hopkins 's investigations , the tendency will be to form fissures at right angles to those previously existing .
If , however , the constant pressure were far greater than the variable , the directions of the fissures would be governed chiefly by accidental causes ; but if a fissure commenced , it would continue to be propagated in the great circle coinciding with its first direction , unless accidental causes should alter its course .
VIII .
On the existence of a Zone of least disturbance in the Shell .
The author investigates analytically the position of this zone , and from the results of his investigation , points out the conditions under which it will exist , and also the consequences that will follow frot its non-existence .
IX .
This section is devoted to the calculation of some of the constants contained in the formula of the preceding sections .
The following are the geological deductions from the foregoing investigations:1 .
The stability of the axis of rotation of the earth will progressively increase during the process of solidification .
2 .
By employing the values of the constants obtained in Section IX .
, it appears that the thickness of the earth 's crust cannot be less than 18 miles , and cannot exceed 600 miles .
3 .
The earth 's primitive ellipticity , when entirely fluid , was less than its present ellipticity ; but their difference may be neglected .
4 .
If a zone of least disturbance existed near the parallel of mean pressure , the directions of great lines of elevation should be in general parallel , or perpendicular to the equator .
Its non-existence there , which observation seems to show , proves at least that the variable pressure did not predominate over the constant .
Since , as yet , observation goes to prove that such a zone does not exist on the earth 's surface , we must provisionally conclude that the constant pressure greatly predominated over the variable , and , consequently , that the directions of the lines of elevation must be comparatively arbitrary .
5 .
That great friction and pressure exist at the surface of contact of the nucleus and shell , is shown from the conclusions arrived at in Section IV .
, combined with the important result obtained by Mr. Hopkins in his second memoir on Physical Geology ( Phil. Trans. 1840 , p. 207 ) .
6 .
The amount of elastic gases given off from the surface of ' the nucleus rapidly decreases as the thickness of the shell increases .
7 .
The expression obtained for the variation of gravity shows that , if the angular velocity of rotation of the:earth remained unchanged , the waters on its surface would tend to accumulate towards the equator , for the increase of gravity , in going from the equator to the poles , would be less according as the shell 's thickness increased .

