H 877 .
] On the Beds of Chert in the Limestones of Ireland .
163 which is sufficiently constant , our most successful results having been gained with a six-horse power Corliss engine , with a heavy fly-wheel , in he workshop of the College .
Some experiments which promise well have been made with rotating lists on the principle of the thaumatrope .
By using a rotating disk nth slits , and viewing through them another disk on which appropriate igures or symbols are marked , the velocity of one can be determined if hat of the other is known .
This principle may possibly be applied with 4t| idvantage to determine the relative velocity of two machines , such as the win screws of ships .
tot Without pretending that the method described in this paper for deter-Kfj tuning the velocity of rotation will be useful on an extensive scale , we \#171 ; top that it may be applicable in some cases of investigation where accurate observations can be rapidly made without any complex apparatus 41 \gt ; r difficult manipulation .
It has the advantage that it .
can be applied III lirectly to a machine without the intervention of any gearing , the mere fltil ittaching of a piece of paper to a shaft being all that is necessary .
It Bit ; annot , by giving the machine more work to do , produce any effect on n ts rate ; and by the impossibility of slip , it must give accurate results if he paper is properly mounted in the first instance and the observations m are properly made .
rf Being an optical method for investigating rotation , we suggest cyclo-el# scope as a name for the instrument .
\#171 ; ; . !
*S kjH m April 26 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
.iH| : The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for oittem- 3 The following Papers were read :\#151 ; 191 Hr thdj 1 .
" On the Nature and Origin of the Beds of Chert in the Upper Carboniferous Limestones of Ireland .
" By Prof. Edward Hull , M.A. , F.R.S. , Director of the Geological Survey of Ireland .
With " Chemical Notes , " by E. T. Hardman , E.C.S. , of the Geological Survey of Ireland .
Received March 16 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) After reviewing what had been published by previous authors on the 1 origin of chert-beds , and showing that much remained to be done in this department of petrology , the author proceeded to describe the geological mI\#187 ; 164 On the Beds of Chert in the Limestones of Ireland .
[ Apr. 26 position of the principal cherty zone of the Carboniferous Limestone of Ireland , showing that , while bands of chert occur at intervals throughout this formation , the highest beds immediately under " The Yoredale Shales " are especially rich in chert , and are frequently entirely replaced by this mineral .
In these beds coralline , crinoidal , and other marine forms were frequently to be recognized by the naked eye .
Thin slices for microscopic examination , taken from various localities , extending from Sligo to Carlow , also showed that even the most dense and compact masses of chert exhibit , under favourable circumstances , forms belonging to those marine animals ( such as corals , crinoids , foraminifera , and occasionally mollusks ) which build their shells or skeletons of carbonate of lime rather than of silica .
The siliceous paste in which these forms are enclosed was found to be in a gelatinous state ; and the forms were only to be distinguished by difference in depth of shade from the paste , the shells or skeletons having disappeared .
The chemical analyses of these specimens by Mr. E. T. Hardman , E.C.S. , tended to show that the cliert-beds contain various proportions of carbonate of lime as well as other minerals , so that a gradation from siliceous limestone into pure chert might be traced .
From a review of the whole circumstances , it appeared that the origin of the chert-beds was to be attributed to the replacement of the original limestone or calcareous " ooze , " due to organic agency , by silica , and that the rock is truly a pseudomorph , a view held by several .observers .
The manner in which this replacement had been brought about was then touched upon .
It was shown that there was reason for believing that at the close of the period during which the Carboniferous Limestone was formed over the area of Central Ireland , the sea-bed was elevated , so as to be covered by the waters of a shallow sea , exposed to the sun 's rays , and of a warmer temperature than when at a greater depth .
The waters appear to have been charged with a more than usual supply of silica in solution , derived ( as Mr. Hardman suggests ) from the surrounding lands , formed , for the most part , of highly siliceous materials .
As silica is less soluble than carbonate of lime , chemical replacement would naturally take place , the carbonate of lime being dissolved out and its place taken by the silica .
The warm condition of the sea-water , its exposure to sunlight , the porous character of the coralline , crinoidal , and other forms , and the soft and " oozy " condition of the foraminiferal mud would give easy access to the sea-waters , and a process of silicifi\#151 ; cation would take place analogous to that described by Dr. Martini Duncan , F.R.S. , as having occurred in the West Indies .
The paper was accompanied by chemical analyses and photographic figures of some of the thin slices , slightly magnified .

