On the oblique Refraction of Iceland Crystal .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 24 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 381 .
] In the preceding communication Dr. Wollaston inserted two different measures of refractive powers distinctly observable in the Iceland crystal , as well as an estimate of its dispersive power ; but he has reserved for this treatise some remarks , which the same mode of investigation has enabled him to make on its oblique refraction .
To this he was led by the consideration that the law to which Huygens had reduced this refraction , however founded in truth , could not be easily verified by any of the former methods of measurement .
According to the Huygenian hypothesis , .
light proceeding from any luminous centre is propagated by vibrations of a medium highly elastic , that pervades all space .
In ordinary cases the incipient undulations are of a spherical form ; but in the Iceland crystal they appeared to him to be portions of an oblate spheroid , of which the axis is parallel to the short diagonal of an equilateral piece of crystal , and its centre the point of incidence of the ray .
Hence he deduced a ratio between the sine of incidence , and the sine of refraction ( that is , the ordinate of the spheroidical undulation ) in any section of the spheroid .
In a geometrical deduction our author shows that his observations on this substance accord throughout with the hypothesis of Huygens , the measures he has taken corresponding more nearly than could well happen in case of a false theory .
This is illustrated by various examples , in which the refractive power is estimated according to various directions of the plane of incidence ; and the data are pointed out for the construction of the spheroid , by which these refractions are regulated .
Lastly , a comparative view of the angles observed , and those obtained by computation , is reduced into a table , from which , by their near agreement , we collect an additional proof of the accuracy of the results .

