]\gt ; PROCEEIJ I OF THE December 5 , 1889 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , iu the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed as idents\mdash ; The Treasurer .
Professor Alfred Newton .
Sir Henry E. Roscoe .
Professor , W. Williamson .
Professor T. NlcKenny Hughes was admitted the Society .
Pursuant to notice , Professors Stanislao tlste Chauveau , and Henry A. Rowland were balloted for and elected oreign Members of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks for them .
The Papers were read:\mdash ; I. :Remal.ks on Mr. A. W. Ward 's Paper On the lIag.netic .
Rotation of the Plane of Polarisation of Light in doubly refracting Bodies.\ldquo ; ' By O. ] Physikalisches Institut , trassburg i. E. icated b RAYLEIGH , .
Received Octobel , 1889 .
In the above-mentioned paper Mr. Ward* theoretical and experimental investigations which , as far as tley colrect , are in their sential parts already published , and indeed somewhat more ompletely in three papers by GouyT and ourselves , the latter * Ward , ' ploceedmgs of Royal Society , ' , vol. , p. Gouy , ' Journal de Physique , ' vol. 4 , 1885 , p. 149 , " " Sir les oir obutoire et de la double Refraction Wicner , ' 's Annalen , ' vol. 3 , p. 1 , " " Wirkung tion und hung , \ldquo ; Wcdding , , p. 2 , " " Die netische Drehunlg clcr ebene bei pclbrechung in dilatirtem Glass VOL. XLVIt .
2 Messrs. O. Wiener and W. Wedding .
Magnetic [ Dec. 5 , tigatious having been suggested by Professor Kundt .
Experiments on the rotation of the plane of polarisation of light by means ofinterrupted rents , like those of Bichat and Blondlot , are here excluded .
Since the above-mentioned papers have not been noticed by Mr. Ward , and are hence probably not well known , it may be of interest to re- produce here their essential contents .
Gouy shows that in a body , which at the same time has the power of double refraction and of rotation , certain vibrations , to which he gives the llame " " privilegiees are p.ropagated unaltered .
These vibrations exactly same part such bodies .
as the linear components in , and normal to , the principal section case of ordinary ] cting bodies , and as Fresnel 's two circular components in the case of ordinary rotating bodies .
In bodies which at the same time have the power of double refraction and of rotation , these two components of vibration take place in opposite directions in two ellipses , ) major axes one the plane of cipal section and the other perpendicular to it .
The ratio of the axes the differsnce of phase of the components are calculated by Gouy the constants of double refraction and rotation .
For the complete solution of the problem of the tion of light in sucl ] a body we only requiro to resolve any incident vibration into its two privileged components , and to compound them to a s1ngle resultant on ence .
The solution of this problem is contained in the above paper by Wiener , which was intended to supply the theoretical foundation for Wedding 's investigation .
It was especially important to determine how the rotation , due to the rotational power of the body , is disturbed by double refraction .
It was found that the rotation aIters periodically with the thickness of the plate , and with strong doubJe refi.action may even become ative , that is to say , in the opposite direction to that due to the rotational power .
The rotation is zero in the neighbourhood of those places where the difference of phase of the linear components , due to double refraction , is a multiple of , and not , as Mr. Ward thinks , of .
The general resul , of Wiener 's paper may be quoted as follows:\mdash ; " " Herrscht bei der leichzeitjgen Wirkung von Circularpolarisation* und Doppelbrechung die eine for , so wird die andere theilweise verdeckt .
Eine stark Doppelbrechung driickt die Drehung der Circularpolarisation und eine stark Circularpolarisation das Elliptischmachen der Doppelbrechung herab Wedding 's investigation is of purely expcrimental nature , and consists of two parts .
The first is occupied wibh magnetic rotation in stressed glass , and completely confirms by experiment the con* By cularpolarisation \ldquo ; is understood wh we here called rotational 1889 .
] Rotation of the Plane of Potaris clusions of the theory , especially with to zero and negative otation .
It concludes the words : Ebenso man bei Krystallen , an denen man keine elektro- , netische D. beobachten kann , nicht den Schluss ziehen , dass ihnen keine Verdet'sche Constant , weil eine handene lUng durch die superponirte Doppelbrechung geschwacht wird und bis sir Unmerklichkeit verdeckt werden kann In the second part he communicates the repetition of Villari 's on the rotation of the plane of polarisation of light in a spinning between magnet poles .
He finds a diminution of rotation from to when the disk spins 10,800 times in a minute , and proves ) erimeIltallythat this is due to the don'ole refraction produced by celltrifuo{l force .
For , on the one hand , the double refraction produces a difference of phase in the linear components , which , like the , is to the squarc of number of revoluticns , hence must be due to this force ; on the other hnnd , the rotation vanishes as the theory requires , just where the difference of phase of the lineal components is Thus Mr. YYard 's essential results , lmely , the diminution of the rotation by double refraction , and the explanation of Villari 's experiment by means of the double refraction due to force , have even already communicated in the above-named papers .
With regard to lfr .
Ward 's mathematical deductions , the first of the before-mentioned authors to point out a mistake which Mr. Ward has in ming his differential equation .
In accordance with Mr. lYard , we lct the or axis fall in the plane of section , and the axis in the direction of the rays of ] ight .
We must examine how an ellipse is altered under the common action of rotation and double refraction , if we advance in the medium a short distance .
Like Mr. Vard , we take the ellipse as produced by osition of and components , the ratio of whose amplitudes is , and whose difference of phase is ; then the direction of the major axis forms with axis an ange , detormined by the equation Since the double retraction does not alter the value of , we obtain the variation of with under the influence of double refraction alone by forming , regarding as constant\mdash ; or . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messrs. O. Wiener and W. Wedding .
Magnetic [ Dec. 5 , So far our calculation agrees with Mr. Ward 's .
To continue : let under the influence of double refraction alone by , when the vibration advances through ; then the alteration of is - tain Under the influence of rotation alone , let vary by ; then the total alteration of with is given by the equation\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 .
) In this equation is still unknown ; it is also variable with tlJe double refraction and with the rotation .
We mtlst therefore form a second diiferential equation for .
We know the alteration of due to double refraction alone ; it is .
In to learn the variation of with , alone , we are in nee of a relation between and , in which only and are variable in consequence of rotation .
relation is\mdash ; tau , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4 .
where if is the ratio of the minor and major axes of the ellipse .
This ratio , as a matter of fact , does not alter with rotation .
From this follows\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 5 .
) But since , the variation of by rotation alone is .
The total variation of with is hence given by the equation\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 6 .
) Thus the complete solution of the problem is contained in the two simultaneous differential equations\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mr. Ward 's solution , however , consists in the single differentia ] Rotation of Plane Polarisation of r ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 8 .
) He obtains it by setting in equations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) .
This tion is not correct , since it only represents the variation of donble refraction , whilst also varies with rotation .
To show the effect of this mistake , we will consider tho particularly simple case where the incident vibration is along axis lone , and where the double refraction is so much the rot ntion that we can replace by The correct differential equations are\mdash ; Mr. Ward 's is\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 10 .
) The solutiou of the simultaneous differelltial equntions ( 9 ) is\mdash ; whilst Mr. Ward obtainb for case by of ( 10)\mdash ; \amp ; .
( 11 ) it follows in accordance with experiment that when , the difference of phase , is a multiple of .
Ward concludes from ( 12 ) that when a multiple of To conclude : Mr. Ward 's single differential equation must be replaced by two simultaneolJs differential equations .
The conclusions which Mr. Ward draws from his equation are hence in part incorrect , part not properly proved .
[ Reference may also be made to Professor Gibbs 's rrati on of " " Donble action i perfectly Transparent Media exhibit the Phenomena of Circular Polarisation 'Amer .
JourIl .
Sci June .
1882.\mdash ; R. ]

