340 Development of Apteryx .
Electrical Resistances .
[ Jan 21 r I 1 III , " Additional Observations on the Development of Aptery| By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , F.K.S. , Professor of Biology | in the University of Otago , Dunedin , New Zealand .
Re_ ceived December 15 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is founded upon the study of three embryos of Apteryx australis obtained since the author 's former communication on this subject was written .
The youngest ( stage E ' ) is intermediate between E and F of the former paper , the next ( F ' ) between F and G , the most advanced ( G ' ) between G and H. In E ' the characteristic form of the beak has already appeared .
In F ' the pollex is unusually large , giving the fore-limb the normal characteristics of an embryo wing .
Several important additions and corrections are made to the former account of the skull , especially with regard to the pre-sphenoid region , the basi-cranial fontanelles , and the relations between the trabecular and para-chordal regions .
The account of the shoulder-girdle is amended .
In Apteryx ow\amp ; ni the coracoid region is solid , and no pro-coracoid appears ever to be formed : in A. australis a ligamentous pro-coracoid is present at a comparatively early period ( stage F ' and perhaps E ' ) .
An intermedium is present in the carpus in all three specimens in addition to the elements previously described .
The brain in stage G is interesting , as being at what may be called the critical stage ; the cerebellum is fully developed , and the optic lobes have attained the maximum proportional size and are lateral m position .
In all essential respects the brain of this embryo is typically avian .
a Differential Electrostatic Method of measuring High Electrical Resistances .
" By Major Gardew , R.E. Communicated by Sir William Thomson , D.C.L. , P.R.S. Received January 6 , 1892 .
The following method has been found useful for determining the relative value in insulating quality of small samples of materials , the insulation resistance of short pieces of cable , and other very high resistances .
The arrangement is also suitable for continuously indicating the position on any electrical circuit , worked at a high pressure , of the

