638 The Opposite Electrification produced by Animal and Vegetable Life .
By W. M. Thoenton , D.Sc .
, D.Eng .
, Professor of Electrical Engineering in Armstrong College , Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1910 .
) 1 .
Introductory.\#151 ; When a steady electric current is passed through a drop of pond scum rich in animal and vegetable organisms , two opposite movements of migration of the living cells will in general be observed .
Diatoms and unicellular algae , for example , move towards the negative pole , amoeboid animal organisms to the positive .
The clearness of the effect is often confused by the presence of anchored and skeleton cells of either kind , and the case of pond scum is only given because the effect to be described was first observed in this way .
Early in 1904 it was desired to find an indicator for the qualitative detection of voltage gradient in liquids in fields of microscopic dimensions .
The orientation of long diatoms into line with the current was anticipated from the known behaviour* of bacteria in an alternating field , and found to occur .
In steady , that is unidirectional , fields they not only orientate but move along the line of current-flow to the negative pole .
They therefore serve in two ways to indicate the presence of a steady current in the liquid .
At the first , and in all subsequent trials , the movement of migration of the diatoms was accompanied by one in the same direction of portions of most of the vegetable matter free to move , and a simultaneous movement in the reverse direction of the free animal forms , provided that the motile activity of the latter did not overpower the mechanical influence of the field .
The movement was quite dead-beat , reversing instantly with the reversal of polarity , and since the only mechanical force an electric field can exert is upon an electric charge it was concluded that the -opposite movement of the cells indicated that they carried opposite charges , the animal cells being negatively electrified , the vegetable cells positively .
2 .
Method of Experiment.\#151 ; To observe the movement it is well to have the field as strong as possible ; it was found that 75 volts per centimetre was the highest which could be conveniently used .
This is much greater than that employed by previous workers , which rarely exceeded 10 volts per centimetre .
To avoid trouble by liberation of gas at the electrodes with this high * L. Lortet , 'Comptes .Rendus , ' April 20 , 1896 , p. 892 .
Electrification produced by Animal and Vegetable Life .
639 gradient it is necessary to use a small current , that is to have a high resistance between the poles , such as one obtains from a thin film of liquid of high resistivity , 300 to 1000 ohms per centimetre cube .
The method used was to place a drop of tap water , weak saline or cane sugar solution , on a glass slide , to introduce by a platinum needle the cells to be observed , and to place a f-inch square cover slip over it .
The drop was just sufficient to fill the space below the slip without flooding it .
The electrical pressure was then applied from a hand generator of the kind used in testing the insulation of electric cables , giving about 150 volts when turned slowly , 500 volts quickly , on open circuit- The pressure from a direct-current electric lighting supply with a water resistance or bank of lamps in series also serves well .
The current strength should be such that bubbles form at the electrodes very slowly or not at all .
The current was led into the drop by means of two fine platinum wires secured to an insulating cross-bar by wax , and attached by flexible wires to a reversing key and the generator .
The bar could be raised or lowered freely .
The stand holding it was of such a height that the wires were almost horizontal , lying along opposite sides of the cover slip .
Using a y^-inch oil-immersion lens the cells crossed the field in a few seconds when the generator was turned slowly .
It is difficult when working with bacteria to avoid the influence of streaming under the slip caused by change of capillarity through electrification , and it is only by repeated trial that the exact thickness of liquid for dead-beat movement can be obtained .
With blood and yeast cells , however , the electro-mechanical force on the cell is much greater , and streaming gives less trouble .
Its occurrence can in any case be readily seen by the organisms continuing to move after the stoppage of the current .
Before dealing with living cells it must be stated that almost all finely divided matter can be made to migrate in an electric field in suitable liquids .
This has been very fully investigated , notably by Quincke* Hardy , t Perrin , $ and Burton .
S The present results are differentiated from these by the clear division between the movement of the two types of life , in general irrespective of habitat , culture medium or composition of the cell , provided that this is fresh .
The intensity of the movement is conditioned largely by the relative conductivities of the organisms and the surrounding liquid .
* * * S * Wiedemann , ' Electricitat , ' vol. 2 , pp. 166 et seq. t W. B. Hardy , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1900 , vol. 66 , p. 110 .
$ Jean Perrin , ' Journ. de Chim .
Physique , ' 1904 , vol. 11 , 10 , p. 607 .
S C. V. Burton , ' Phil. Mag. , ' April and November , 1906 .
640 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
Opposite Electrification [ June 17 , In repeating the experiments the chief difficulties will be found to be ( 1 ) in maintaining electrical contact between the wires and the drop without excess of liquid ; ( 2 ) in the cells adhering to the slide and cover slip ; ( 3 ) in distinguishing between forced movement of the cells and free movement due to streaming .
Whenever there is no movement either the electrical circuit is broken or the cells are anchored .
To avoid the disturbing influence of ions from the poles the current should be reversed every five to ten seconds of continued observation .
The essential points are fresh cells , neutral liquid , high voltage and resistance ; in addition to which the electrical conductivity of the liquid should be less than that of the organisms .
The reason for the latter is that when it is greater the current avoids the cell , preferring to go by the liquid .
On the other hand , when the conductivity of the organism is greater the current converges upon it .
3 .
Infusoria.\#151 ; From time to time attempts were made to obtain conditions under which the effect could be demonstrated with certainty .
Motility of any kind gave trouble ; thus Paramoecium was found hy Verworn* to move to the negative pole ; but if the current is switched on while clusters of the organisms are under observation , they will be found almost without exception to burst towards the positive .
This was also observed by Yerworn .
Euglena , again , bursts towards the positive .
The cell contents of Eotifers and of small fresh-water worms move towards the positive , the sacs clearing on the negative side .
Many similar observations were made , but the results were , as a rule , not sufficiently marked or uniform for repeated demonstration .
These were all with cells in their natural habitat .
Dale , f by a careful examination of the movement of parasitic infusoria in various solutions , arrived at the following results .
The reaction of the host__a frog\#151 ; was always alkaline .
In an alkalinated solution ranarum moved to the positive ( p. 310 ) ; from a freshly killed frog to the positive ( p. 316 ) ; Balantidium entozoon , alkaline , in strong currents to the positive , then later to the negative ( p. 321 ) , Balantidium elongatum ( p. 326 ) , and Balantidium duod\amp ; ni ( p. 332 ) , first to the positive and after some hours to the negative .
It is not stated whether the organisms were then found to be living , but is of interest to note that the movement , whilst they were fresh , was in each case to the positive .
The reversal may be compared with that of plants given in the next section .
In acid solutions the movements were in general reversed , but the * ' Fsycho-physiologische Protistenstudien , ' Jena , 1889 .
t H. H. Dale , * Journ. of Physiology , ' vol. 26 , pp. 219 et seq. 1910 .
] produced by Animal and Vegetable Life .
641 conditions are then not those of normal life or growth , since the reaction of the fresh frog was alkaline .
Starting from Hardy 's conclusion ( loc. cit. ) that acid particles are electrically negative and basic particles positive , Lillie* investigated the movement of certain animal cells .
He found that the red corpuscles and smaller leucocytes\#151 ; in frog 's blood\#151 ; move to the positive , the voluminous leucocytes to the negative .
With spermatozoa there is active migration of the sperm head to the positive , the tail having been absorbed in the cane sugar solution used .
With teased-out tissue the effect was not so certain , which he suggests may be the result of post-mortem alteration of muscle substance , and of the injury in teasing out the cells .
His conclusions are " that the direction and speed of electrical migration of living cells and portions of tissue are chiefly dependent upon the electrical characteristics of their constitutent colloids , that animal cell nuclei exhibit a strong tendency to migrate to the positive pole , and that this is strongest in those nuclei in which the proportion of nucleic acid is highest .
" Perrin ( loc. cit. ) , discussing colloidal solutions , observes that " a charge which is raised by the presence in the solvent of a monovalent acid is lowered by a monovalent base , " an extension of Hardy 's conclusion .
Jennings'f paper on " The Reactions of Electricity in Unicellular Organisms " is a criticism of others by Birnkoff and Greely on the migrations of infusoria , chiefly Paramcedum .
Greely states that , in his opinion , " the electrical condition of the protoplasm itself determines the motion .
" 4 .
Vegetable Cells.\#151 ; In the present experiments the first clear movement of vegetable matter observed , other than that of diatoms , was of filaments of Vaucheria , which moved to the negative .
Volvox aureus moved and burst to the negative , as was also observed by Carlgren .
J plantaginis , a pleurococeus ( chlorophyll green alga ) , a unicellular alga , and protococci from moist growths , all moved to the negative .
Working by the method described , the following bacteria , when taken from young active growths and examined immediately , moved without exception to the negative :\#151 ; B. typhosus , B. tuberculosis , B. diphth .
avium , B. prodigiosus , B. Lactic acid , B. pyocyaneus , B. coli comm .
, B. Friedldnder , Sarcina aurantiaca , lutea , Staph , aureus , Spore-bearing bacillus , Hog cholera , Pneumococcus .
Bacteria from cultures which had been standing in the laboratory for some time and were not subcultured before being examined , and bacteria which , though sub-cultured 24 hours before use , showed very poor growth , almost invariably moved to * Br .
S. Lillie , 'Am .
Joum .
of Physiol. , ' 1903 , vol. 8 , p. 276 .
t H. S. Jennings , 'Joum .
Neurology and Psychol .
, ' 1905 , pp. 528\#151 ; -534 .
J Archiv f. Anat .
a. Physiol. , ' Physiol. Abth .
, 1900 , p. 49 .
642 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
Opposite Electrification [ June 17 , the positive .
This reversal is no doubt accompanied by marked changes in the protoplasm .
In the case of an unclassified non-motile bacillus , in the laboratory of the University of Durham College of Medicine , isolated from a scarlet fever patient , a most active migration to the negative was obtained , which , tested by samples from the same agar tube kept after incubation in a cool place , lasted for about ten days , when it reversed .
No further observations were possible on this organism because it soon after died out .
Russ , * working with weak voltage gradients , small currents and many hours ' exposure , has recently found some bacteria to migrate to the positive pole , others to the negative .
In view of the present experiments the former may be attributed to either motile response to stimulus , or the forced movement of organisms of which the charge had been reversed by prolonged action of the solution .
With regard to the movement of growing plants , Brunchhorstf found that roots extending into water through which a moderate current was passed bent towards the negative , but when the current was strong to the positive .
He regarded the latter effect as secondary and due to electrolytic action .
Ewart and BaylissJ regard it as stimulatory .
They apparently agree that , with moderate currents , the movement to the negative is a response to stimulation .
JostS notes that " roots which in the strong current exhibit positive curvature always die , not only on the positive side but altogether , at the latest after 24 hours .
The negative curvature appears to be genuine stimulation , with the root apex acting as the organ of perception .
" Letellier|| also observed curvature of growing roots towards the negative pole .
The sporangiophore of Phy corny ces was found by HeglerIF to bend towards the negative pole under the influence of Hertzian radiation .
From the difficulty experienced in working with motile organisms it was decided that although there was cumulative evidence that the difference between the animal and vegetable reaction was real , a crucial test could only be made with non-motile cells of either kind , the animal cells fresh from the animal , the vegetable cells from an active growth .
5 .
Blood Corpuscles and Yeast.\#151 ; Human blood corpuscles satisfy the conditions in every way .
They are readily obtained fresh and , containing a high percentage of salts , are not too sensitive to external influences .
At first it * C. Russ , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , vol. 81 , p. 314 .
t ' Ber .
d. bot .
Gres .
, ' 1884 , p. 207 .
\#163 ; * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1905 , vol. 77 , p. 63 .
S ' Plant Physiology ' ( trans .
Harvey Gibson ) , 1907 , p. 481 .
|| * Bull , de la Soc. bot .
de Prance , ' 1899 , vol. 6 , p. 11 .
If ' Verhandlg .
d. Ges .
deutscher Naturf .
Aerztein Halle , ' 1891 .
1910 .
] produced by Animal and Vegetable Life .
643 was thought that bacteria could be found to satisfy the conditions equally well , in spite of the difficulty of observing them readily , but in any loopful there are liable to be inert organisms which confuse the result .
Many observations were , however , made with blood corpuscles and bacteria mixed in a drop of tap water or weak saline solution .
When the latter were fresh the effect was marked , the blood cells of both kinds moving actively to the positive , the bacteria to the negative , streaming past one another , stopping , starting , and reversing with the current .
For the purpose of demonstration the difficulty was to find a vegetable growth of great vigour with single non-motile cells of convenient size for observation .
This was eventually found in Torula .
Yeast is easily obtained and complies with all the requirements .
Blood and yeast cells are of the same size , but the slight colour of the former and the oval shape of the latter enable them to be readily distinguished .
Judging by the velocity of migration the charge carried is of the same order in each .
In a field containing many of both kinds they move past each other and after collision pass on with unchanged speed .
The effect can be readily projected upon a screen with arc light , using a No. 6 objective well stopped down , the disc obtained being about 3 inches in diameter .
It is unlikely that the electrical charges reside only on the surface , for they would , at least in part , coalesce , as they do in neutralised colloidal solutions.* The charges of blood and yeast cells appear also to be exceedingly stable .
Smears of either on glass , dried for several days , on being moistened with water exhibit the effect quite well .
It may then be reasonably concluded , in so far as it is possible to have a single crucial test for so wide a range of activities , that fresh animal cells are negatively , and vegetable cells positively electrified .
The fact that collisions do not discharge the cells , and that in both kinds the reversal of charge ( which has no doubt led to most of the conflicting evidence on electrical migration of cells ) takes place slowly , and cannot well be located in the cell wall , suggests that the above conclusion may tentatively be extended to the protoplasm .
The principal difference between the two modes of life would then be that active animal protoplasm produces negative electrification , vegetable positive .
Expressed in terms of Hardy 's results the former is acidic , the latter basic in type .
6 .
Contributory Evidence.\#151 ; This conclusion is not without support from less direct experiment .
It has been shown by Dr. Wallerf that the local skin response current is opposite in sign in animal and vegetable tissues , indicating an essential difference in the normal charge of their cells .
* W. E. Hardy , loc. tit .
t A. D , Waller , ' Signs of Life , ' p. 84 , S 61 .
VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; B , 3 B 644 Electrification produced by Animal and Vegetable Life .
From experiments on the action of static charge on growing plants Lemstrom* found that air positively ionised stimulated growth much more than when the charge was negative .
These observations agree with the view that there is an essential difference in sign between animal and vegetable charge , that of vegetable growth being positive .
If then a supply of negatively charged matter raises the activity of animal protoplasm and depresses that of bacteria , it may be even possible in disease to stimulate the blood directly by the inhalation of negatively charged air .
It is worth examining where in nature air is found to have a free negative charge .
Elster and Geitelf have shown that at high altitudes there is always a much stronger discharge of negative than of positive electrification .
The action of sunlight , especially of the ultra-violet rays , is to cause a leak of negative charge from growing leaves and from pine trees in particular , the latter no doubt in part from the discharging influence of sharp points .
The presence of negative charge in high pine woods from a combination of these causes may account in some measure for their marked curative properties , in tuberculous disease of the lung for example .
In view of the difficulty of attacking tubercle situ and the importance of the desired result , the suggestion is offered that the inhalation of air charged artificially with negative ions might prove useful in the treatment of tubercle of the lung , either by raising locally the activity of the blood cells or lowering that of the organisms .
It may be remarked that nascent oxygen and chlorine , which in electrolysis carry a strong negative charge , are active bactericides , hydrogen , the only electropositive gas , is not .
*7 .
Glassification of Rudimentary Organisms.\#151 ; When the cells are fresh or active the described effect provides a sensitive means of distinguishing between animal and vegetable .
Thus Lycogala ( Mycetozoa ) moved to the positive pole and was thus , in the specimens examined , animal in type .
Resting spores of Badhemia utricularis , after several hours in water , moved equally well to the negative pole , as vegetable. . .
Whether the latter observation is an example of the reversal of sign of an animal cell , similar to that constantly found with bacteria , or an indication that the organism may possibly be vegetable in type , requires further examination .
Mr. J. J. ListerJ observes that " Badhemia utricularis is exceptional in feeding on living fungi , though it will also live and thrive on the same fungi after they have * S. Lemstrom , ' Electricity in Agriculture , ' 1904 , p. 62 .
+ 'Ann .
d. Physik , ' 1900 , vol. 2 , p. 425 .
% \#171 ; A Treatise on Zoology ' ( ed. Sir E. Kay Lankester ) , \#171 ; The Protozoa , p. 49 .
The Fermentation of Galactose by Yeast and Yeast-juice .
645 become dried , if they are wetted again with water .
" It also differs from many Mycetozoa in growing in strong sunlight.* It would be of interest to examine in this way the rudimentary organisms which at present occupy an undefined position between the two great divisions of living matter .
If protoplasm is identically the same in animal and vegetable cells the principle of life for each must be the power of determining its activity so that as a result the charge of one becomes negative and the other positive .
It is also possible that the protoplasm itself may not be the same , and that the characteristic electrical charge is obtained not by separation within the cell but by selective absorption from without , so that the protoplasmic cell-content cannot be regarded as quite the same in the two cases .
In conclusion I wish to express my indebtedness to my colleague , Prof. H. J. Hutchens , for most useful advice .
The Fermentation of Galactose by Yeast and Yeast-juice .
( .
liminary Communication .
) * By Arthur Harden , F.B.S. , and Boland V. Norris .
( Beceived July 18 , 1910 .
) ( From the Biochemical Laboratory of the Lister Institute .
) Numerous investigators have shown that many species of yeast which ordinarily do not ferment galactose , readily acquire that property when cultivated in a medium containing that sugar .
The present communication briefly describes experiments which have been made with living yeast in this way , and with the juice obtained from this yeast .
Experiments are also proceeding with yeast " killed " by acetone and other reagents ( zymin ) , and it is hoped when these are complete to give a more detailed account of the whole investigation in a future paper .
Pure cultures of S. Carlsberg I have been used throughout these experiments .
The medium employed for " training " the yeast consisted of yeast water to which was added 20 per cent , of hydrolysed lactose and 0T5 per cent , of K2HP04 .
* Lo .
cit. , p. 48 .
3 b 2

