Some Account of Cretinism .
By Henry Reeve , M.D. of Norwich .
Communicated by William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Rlead February 11 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 111 .
] The peculiar idiots , Cretins , which prevail in the Valais and in Switzerland , appear to have been first described by Felix Plater in 1656 ; but the author of the present communication refers to M. de Saussure for the most accurate account of the appearance of the disorder ; to Malacarni of Turin , and to Professor Ackerman , for a particular description of several cretins that they dissected ; and for a more full account of the malady , to the Essai sir le Goitre et Cretinisme , by Mons. Fodere .
By these and other accounts , Dr. Reeve 's curiosity was excited to examine what connexion could subsist between mental imbecility and that enlargement of the thyroid gland which so frequently accompanies it , and which , in general , first attracts the notice , and has much occupied the attention , of those who have described cretinism .
But this is not a constant attendant ; while the more essential symptoms are , deformed head , diminutive stature , a sickly complexion , a vacant countenance , coarse and prominent eyelids , wrinkled and pendulous skin , with muscles proportionally flabby .
The qualities of the mind correspond to the outward appearance , and vary in all degrees , from common stupidity to complete fatuity .
Notwithstanding the assertions and ingenious reasoning of Foder6 and other authors upon the supposed connexion between goitre and cretinism , the author is inclined to think , from the instances which he had an opportunity of observing in the neighbourhood of Martigny , that the two disorders are perfectly distinct ; and that though they frequently occur in the same person in countries where both disorders are endemial , yet no necessary connexion subsists between them : for even there , many persons have goitre without cretinism , and many cretins have no goitre ; and in Britain , we know that no weakness of the intellectual powers accompanies bronchocele .
Dr. Reeve is inclined to ascribe this singular malady to peculiarities in the physical constitution of certain districts .
The valleys where cretinism is most frequent , as Saussure justly observes , are surrounded by very high mountains ; they are sheltered from currents of air , and are exposed to both the direct and reflected rays of the sun .
The atmosphere is humid , close , and oppressive : the houses of the cretins are also generally in the most confined situations , are very filthy , very hot , and miserable habitations ; while in the more airy and elevated parts of the mountains , no cretins are to be seen .
The hypothesis , that snow-water is the cause of goitre and of cretinism , our author observes , is contradicted by the most obvious facts ; since there are many places contiguous to glaciers where the inhabitants can drink nothing but snow-water , and yet are not subject to these disorders ; which , on the contrary , do occur in some places where snow-water is unknown .
The theory also which ascribes them to waters impregnated with calcareous matter is equally unfounded ; and even the general opinion , that goitre is endemial in mountainous countries , is of no value , since it is rare in Scotland , though mountainous , and very common in the county of Norfolk .
Fromr those dissections which have been made of cretins by Ackerman , by Malacarni of Turin , and by Fodere , some very singular appearances in the cranium have been observed .
There was no cavity for the reception of the pons varolii and medulla oblongata ; and that which contained the cerebellum scarcely exceeded one third of its natural capacity .
The present paper is accompanied with two drawings taken in the anatomical museum at Vienna , from the skull of a cretin who died at thirty years of age ; yet the fontanelle is not closed , the second set of teeth are not out of their sockets , and none of the bones are distinctly and completely formed .
Every part bears marks of irregularity in the growth and formation of bone .
The zygomatic and maxillary processes of the ossa malse are wanting .
the ossa nasi very small ; in the temporal bone the zygomatic process terminates at the coronoid process of the lower jaw ; the mastoid and styloid processes are wanting ; the os occipitis is unusually large , and numerous additional ossa triquetra are seen along the whole course of the lambdoidal suture .
Cretinism , says the author , is a most distinct instance of the effect of physical causes on the intellectual as well as on the bodily powers ; and it is now sufficiently ascertained , that it may be prevented by removal of children from the confined and dirty situations to the more open and airy parts of the mountains : and , accordingly , the number of cretins has , within the last ten years , sensibly diminished .
The analogy between this disorder and rickets is considerable .
It is remarkable , that they were both first described nearly at the same time ; and it is to be hoped that they will disappear together , and at some happier period be known only by description .

