II .
" On the Partitions of the r-Pyramid , being the first class or r-gonous x-edra .
" By the Rev. T. P. KIRKMAN , M.A. , F.R.So Received October 14 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) Partitions proper of the r-pyranid are made by drawing diagonals none crossing another in the r-gonal base , and diapeds ( intersections of non-contiguous faces ) none enclosing a space , in the r-edral vertex .
The object of the memoir is to enumerate the number of such partitions that can be made with K diapeds in the vertex and k diagonals in the bases of the pyramid .
By the drawing of k diagonals , the pyramid becomes a ( r+ l)-acral ( r +k + l)-edron , which by the introduction of K diapeds becomes a ( r+ K+ 1)-acral ( r +k+ l)-edron .
Such a figure is termed an r-gonous ( r +K -+ )-acral ( r+ k+ l)-edron of the first class .
The definition of an r-gonous x-edron of the first class is that it contains a discrete r-gony , i. e. K diapeds and k diagonals of which no diaped meets a diagonal , and such that the convanescencce of the K diapeds will form an 2-ace , and the evanescence of the diagonals forms an r-gon .
If the summits upon the k diagonals be , one or more of them , partitioned by K ' diapeds , or the faces about the K diapeds be partitioned by k ' diagonals , there arises a mixed r-gony , in which are one or more angles made by a diaped and a diagonal .
If such a figure has not a discrete r-gony as well as that mixed one , and has no ( r + ')-gony , by the vanescence of which the ( r + ')-pyramid can be obtained , it is an r-gonous x-edron of the second class .
And r-gonous x-edra of the third class can be obtained by partitioning the faces about the K ' diapeds and the summits upon the kc diagonals , in such a manner that no ( r+r')-gony shall be introduced ; and so on for higher classes of r-gonous x-edra , It is proved that every partition proper of the r-pyramid , that is , any ( 1 +K)-partitioned r-ace laid on a ( 1 + c)-partitioned r-gon , is an r-gonous ( r +l+ 1)-acral ( r k+ )-edron .
The number of the ( I -k)-partitions of the r-gon , and of the ( 1 +-K)-partitions of the r-ace is known by the formulae given in the author 's memoir " On the partitions of the r-gon and r-ace , " in the Philosophical Transactions , 1857 .
The present memoir gives the formulae whereby the partitions of the pyramid are determined in terms of those of the r-gon and r-ace .
Thus the entire first class of r-gonous x-edra is enumerated , without descending to any classification of polyedra according to the rank of their faces and summits .
The enumeration of the second and higher classes will require such classification , which will introduce so vast a complexity as to render the further prosecution of the theory of the polyedra , in the opinion of the author , practically impossible by any method deserving the name of scientific generality .

