308 Mr. F. E. Beddard .
a new Form of | the adiabatic relations for liquid and gaseous ether : the rise of pressure and temperature when volume is decreased without escape of heat .
It is obvious that similar relations are determinable f0r 1 solutions , and probably with much greater facility .
M. Alexeeff has !
made some measurements which might be utilised for this purpose .
f but they are far too few in number , and , moreover , the necessary data as regards osmotic pressure are wholly wanting .
It would be possible by a series of differential experiments to ascertain the 1 evolution of heat on increasing concentration , and so to arrive at a I knowledge of the specific heats of the solution at constant osmotic pressure , corresponding to the idea of specific heat at constant pressure ; and also of specific heats at constant concentration , corresponding to specific heats at constant volume .
I do not know whether such researches would yield as accurate results as those we are at present carrying out , but they are at least well worthy of attention .
II .
" Preliminary Notice of a New Form of Excretory Organs in an Oligocheetous Annelid .
" By Frank E. Beddard , M.A. , Prosector of the Zoological Society .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1891 .
So far as our knowledge of the Oligochseta goes at present , the excretory system appears to consist either of one or more pairs of separate nephridia in each segment , or of a diffuse , irregularly arranged system of tubules with numerous external pores upon each segment , and often with numerous coelomic funnels in each segment ; there may or may not be a connexion between the tubes of successive segments .
All the aquatic Oligocheeta have nephridia of the first kind ; a large number of the terrestrial Oligocheeta have nephridia of the second kind ; there is occasionally in the latter forms a specialisation of part of the diffuse nephridial system into a pair of large nephridia ; these species connect the two extremes .
But in all these Worms the nephridia are contained in the coelom , though some of the connecting branches may be retroperitoneal ; the ducts which lead to the exterior may branch in the thickness of the body wall , but there does not seem to be any extensive ramification and anastomosis of the tubes in the muscular layers of the body wall.* I have recently found a remarkably different arrangement of the nephridia in an Annelid belonging to a new genus of Eudrilid\#169 ; * This family is chiefly noteworthy on account of the remarkable modi* ' Quart .
Journ. Mier .
Sci. , ' vol. 28 , PI .
fig. 1 , n , and fig. 2 .
1 1891 .
] Excretory Organs in an Annelid .
) ftcations of the reproductive organs , and the present genus is no i exCeption to the rule in that particular ; hut it shows a further peculiarity in the structure of the nephridia ; the arrangement of these organs in the clitellar region of the body is unique among i Annelids , and is to a certain extent suggestive of the condition of the organs supposed to be nephridia in certain Nematoidea .
Throughout the body generally , as in other Eudrilids , the nephridia are paired ; in the genital region I was struck , on dissecting the worms , by the apparent absence of nephridia .
Sections through the body wall in this region show that the longitudinal and transverse muscular layers are traversed by a system of peculiar canals not at all like nephridia in appearance .
These canals are not mere clefts between the muscular fibres , such as Kiikenthal has described in his paper " Ueber die lymphoiden Zellen der Anneliden such lymph spaces I have found in a good many Oligocheeta , but they never possess a definite wall .
On the contrary , the canals which I describe here have a definite darkly-staining wall , with nuclei here and there .
They resemble the blood vessels very closely , and might easily be confounded with them .
These vessels are arranged in a longitudinal and a transverse series with numerous branches and interconnexions .
The longitudinal muscles are imbedded in a nearly homogeneous , transparent , connective tissue , which is of some thickness between the peritoneal epithelium and where the muscular fibres end .
It is in the latter j tract of tissue that the four principal longitudinal trunks run .
corre-| sponding in position to a line connecting the four successive pairs of j setae ; there appear to be smaller longitudinal trunks , but the four | principal ones run through several segments without a break ; these I longitudinal trunks are connected with a metamerically repeated | system of transverse vessels ; these lie between the transverse and | longitudinal muscular coats , and appear to run right round the body .
1 'fhey are of considerable calibre , but not so wide as the longitudinal j trunks ; I could not detect any ciliation anywhere , and their walls i are extremely thin .
They give off numerous branches , which traverse .j body wall in every direction , and form a finer meshwork of ; tubules ; some of the branches run towards the epidermis , and 1 although I could not detect in transverse sections the actual orifices , \#166 ; nn account of the fineness of the tubes , I could make out at frequent i points a slight modification of the epidermis which seemed to J correspond to an external pore .
Upon fragments of the chitinous cuticle being stripped off and examined with a high magnifying power , the orifices were quite plain .
ley were much smaller than the nephridiopores of but i not so minute as to be confounded with the pores of the gland cells 'C the epidermis .
* ' Jenaische Zeitscliv .
f. Naturw .
, ' vol. 18 ( 1885 ) , p. 310 .
310 Excretory Organs in an Oligochcetoas Annelid .
[ Mar 5 The system of tabes was everywhere accompanied by blood vessels-but , it is perhaps unnecessary to remark , there was nowhere any COn ' nexion between these tubes and the capillaries ; no coagulated blood was in a single instance found in the excretory tubules .
In spite of their very different appearance , as well as arrangement from the nephridia of other types , such as which possess a diffuse nephridial system , the excretory nature of these tubes seems probable , without any further description .
A connexion with the body cavity must be proved in order to remove all doubts as to their nature ; in each segment , just behind the pair of setae , the longitudinal duct gives off a branch , which passes through the peritoneum and comes to lie in the ccelom ; this branch continues for a short distance , and then abruptly ceases ; whether it is furnished with an actual orifice or not I am unable to say .
In a few cases , the branch entering the coelom became connected with a very small coiled nephridial tubule , so small that it was not , as already mentioned , recognisable in dissection .
I am inclined to refer the atrophy of the intra-coelomic part of the nephridia to their having been used up in the formation of the genital ducts .
I have recently communicated to this Society a notice of the development of the genital ducts out of nephridia in Acantho-drilus ; * and that mode of development is possibly general .
In any case the nephridial system of the genital segments of this consists almost entirely of a complex system of , which ramify in the thickness of the body wall , which open by numerous pores on to the exterior , and are connected by a few short tubes with the body cavity .
If the tubes leading to the ccelom became obliterated , and they are very short as it is , the excretory system would consist only of the network in the body walls .
This system of tubes in the skin may perhaps be more comparable to the nephridial network of Cestodes and other flat Worms , than the intracoelomic network of other Oligochseta ; its presence , however , in the body walls suggests a comparison with the Nematoidea , which appear to possess at least the remains of a ccelom .
In some of these Worms a system of fine tubes connected with the excretory pore permeates the interspaces between the longitudinal muscles .
1 ' Echinorliynchus the tubes connected with the lemnisci also ramify in the integument , and the lemnisci themselves are processes of the body wall depending into the coelom .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 48 , 1891 , p. 452 .

