354 Mr. W. Galloway Influence [ Mar. 2 Are you quite sure that the molecular structure of the platinum wire is constant while it behaves as you say it does ?
I beg you will permit your letter and this to appear in the Proceedings .
It will make my note more useful if you will .
Believe me Very faithfully yours , J. Norman Booster .
III .
" On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
" By W. Galloway .
Communicated by Professor Frankland , F.R.S. Received February 4 , 1876 .
In coal-mines in which the temperature of the workings is considerably higher than the mean annual temperature at the surface , there is usually a layer of rubbish on the floor of the roadways and air-ways , which consists , in some places , almost entirely of dry coal-dust , and in others of coal-dust mixed with small pieces of coal and stone .
If it could be shown , therefore , that a mixture of air and coal-dust is inflammable at ordinary pressure and temperature , there would be no difficulty in accounting for the extent and violence of many explosions which have occurred in mines in which no large accumulations of firedamp were known to exist ; for it is only necessary to suppose that a sudden gust of wind ( originated , for example , by the explosion of a small accumulation of firedamp ) had swept through the adjoining galleries , raising a cloud of dust into the air , and then all the other phenomena would follow in regular order .
The flame of the originally inflammable mixture would pass directly into the newly formed one , expanding its volume ; the disturbance would be propagated over an ever widening area , until that area might possibly become coextensive with the workings themselves ; and the consequences would be the same as if the whole space had been filled with an inflammable mixture before the disturbance began .
The accounts of colliery explosions published in this country hardly ever allude to the existence of coal-dust ; and when they do so , in one or two cases , it is for the purpose of suggesting that the gases disengaged from it by the heat of the firedamp-flame would no doubt be ignited , and tend to increase the force of the explosion* .
This seems all the more * Since the above was written , my attention has been called to the following observations by Faraday and Lyell ( Phil. Mag. 1845 ) :\#151 ; " In considering the extent of the fire for the moment of explosion , it is not to be supposed that firedamp is its only fuel ; the coal-dust swept by the rush of wind and flame from the floor , roof , and walls of the works would instantly take fire and burn , if there were oxygen enough in the air present to support its combustion ; and we found the dust adhering to the face o the pillars , props , and walls in the direction of and on the side towards the explosion , 1876 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
355 remarkable when it is remembered that a mixture of air with several other combustible solids in a finely divided state is explosive at ordinary pressure and temperature , and that some serious explosions have been caused by the accidental ignition of very fine dry flour suspended in the air in confined spaces .
This subject has attracted more attention in France .
In the first Number of the 'Annalesdes Mines ' for the year 1875 there are some notes referring to it , together with a paper by M. Vital , Ingenieur des Mines .
M. Vital describes , in a very minute manner , all the phenomena produced by an explosion in the Campagnac colliery on the 2nd of November , 1874 .
A shot , which blew out the tamping , was fired in one of the working-places , in a seam of bituminous coal , and was accompanied by an explosion which burnt three men so seriously that they died within a week .
No firedamp had been detected in this place at any time ; but as the floor was covered with very fine , dry coal-dust , and as the shot was fired at the bottom of the face , and would consequently raise a cloud of dust , it was concluded that nothing but the instantaneous combustion of coal-dust , under the influence of the shot , could account for the accident .
The writer then describes the nature of the coal-dust , both in regard to the size of the particles and their chemical composition ; and afterwards he gives an account of some experiments conducted by him in the Eodez laboratory , for the purpose of ascertaining to what extent a flame resembling that of a shot is lengthened when suddenly lanced into an atmosphere consisting of air with fine coal-dust suspended in it .
In concluding , he says:\#151 ; " Very fine coal-dust is a cause of danger in dry working-places in which shots are fired ; in well-ventilated workings it may of itself alone give rise to disasters ; in workings in which firedamp exists it increases the chances of explosion ; and when an accident of this kind does occur , it aggravates the consequences .
" I had carefully thought over this subject for a considerable time before I had seen M. Vital 's paper , and had come to a conclusion somewhat different from his .
It was this : that air mixed with certain proportions of firedamp and dry coal-dust would be explosive at ordinary pressure and temperature , although the presence of the same proportion of one of the combustible ingredients , or the other , alone , might be insufficient to confer this property on the mixture .
I derived this opinion increasing gradually to a certain distance as we neared the place of ignition .
This deposit was , in some parts , half an inch , and in others almost an inch thick ; it adhered together in a friable coked state ; when examined with the glass it presented the fused round form of burnt coal-dust , and when examined chemically , and compared with the coal itself reduced to powder , was found deprived of the greater portion of the bitumen , and in some cases entirely destitute of it .
There is every reason to believe that much coal-gas was made from this dust in the very air itself of the mine by the flame of the firedamp , which raised and swept it along ; and much of the carbon of this dust remained unburnt only for want of air .
" Mr. W. Galloway the Influence [ Mar. 2 , mmecliately from the consideration that , without doubt , combustible gases can supplant each other in certain equivalent proportions in mixtures which will just ignite at given temperatures , and that finely divided combustible solids have probably the same property to some extent .
Accordingly , when an opportunity occurred on the 3rd of July last , I made experiments to test the correctness of these views .
An apparatus for testing safety-lamps in an explosive current had been erected for my use at Llwynypia Colliery , in the Bhondda valley , through the kindness of Mr. A. Hood , the Managing Director , and Mr. W. G. McMurtrie , the Manager of the Glamorgan Coal Company 's Collieries ; and by having it altered slightly , I was able to employ it also in making experiments with coal-dust .
This apparatus , of which fig. 1 is a vertical section , consists of a horizontal wooden box or pipe , 18 ft. 9 in .
long , by 12 in .
deep , by 6 in .
wide inside ; it was connected with the covered top of the upcast shaft by means of a vertical box of the same dimensions as itself in cross section , and 4 feet long .
A and F are sliding valves for regulating or shutting off the air-current ; B is a glass window , and h a small door on the top of the box ; D a wooden pipe 4 in .
square inside , by 2 ft. long ; C a hopper for letting the coal-dust iuto the apparatus , and c an iron pipe 2 inches in diameter , closed at the top by a wooden plug which projected above the top of the hopper ; lastly , E is a malleable iron pipe , which conducted firedamp from a closed space underground , in which there is a strong blower .
The valve at F having been closed , and that at A opened somewhat , a current of air passed up through D into the apparatus , and , flowing past B , escaped into the upcast , which is connected with an exhausting-fan .
A naked light was then placed inside the apparatus at B , opposite the window ; the hopper was filled with coal-dust and the plug withdrawn to a short distance above the top of c , and moved about gently .
The coal-dust falling through c into the upper end of D was winnowed by the air-current ; the larger particles fell down through D on to the ground below7 , and the fine dust , with which the w'hole air-current wTas charged , 876 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
357 issed over the naked flame at B , and thence into the upcast .
The am of the naked light seemed to lengthen somewhat under these cir-amstances ; but on no occasion did the mixture take fire , or show any pmptoms which led me to suppose it might possibly do so .
I repeated his experiment many times , both with steam-coal dust and with the inest and driest dust of the No. 3 Rhondda seam , which is an excellent oking coal , and invariably obtained the same result .
The air was charged it different times with every proportion of dust , from a thin , scarcely isible cloud to one which extinguished the flame of the lamp .
The following analyses of the two kinds of coal-dust employed in these ixperiments have been kindly made by Dr. Frankland:\#151 ; Steam-Coal dust .
Bituminous-Coal dust .
Carbon .
85-295 . . . .
82-570 Hydrogen 5-040 5-400 Oxygen ( by difference ) , 1-261 . . . .
6-030 Nitrogen .608 1-050 Sulphur .692 .800 Moisture .614 *670 Ash 6-490 3-480 100*000 100-000 In some of the experiments with coal-dust and air alone , the dust of the bituminous coal was carefully dried and sifted through muslin before being used .
The results of these experiments , and of others which I have made since , seem to indicate very conclusively that a mixture of air and coal-dust is not inflammable at ordinary pressure and temperature .
When , however , a small quantity of firedamp was allowed to pass into the apparatus at E , the valve E being partly opened to determine an air-current from E towards B , the mixture of air , firedamp , and coal-dust was found to be somewhat explosive .
This experiment was conducted in the following way:\#151 ; A safety-lamp was placed in the apparatus at B , and the quantity of firedamp was regulated until the flame of the safety-lamp showed no indication of its presence .
The safety-lamp was then removed and replaced by a naked light , and coal-dust was admitted at C. The effect was instantaneous ; for , as soon as the cloud of coal-dust touched the flame , an explosion took place , and the box was filled with a red flame , which continued to burn until the supply of coal-dust was cut off or the air-valves closed .
The naked light inside the apparatus was raised up to the top by means of a wire , just before the coal-dust was admitted , in order to ascertain that there was not an explosive mixture of gas and air at that point .
I have extracted the following analysis of the firedamp employed in this and all the experiments that follow from a paper by Mr. J. W. Thomas " On the Gases enclosed in Coals from the South-Wales Basin , Mr. W. Galloway on the Influence and the Gas evolved from Blowers and by Boring into the Coal itself " printed in the Journal of the Chemical Society , September 1874 .
Although I was satisfied after this with the correctness of my hypothesis in regard to mixtures of air , firedamp , and coal-dust , I could not consider this form of the experiment to be quite satisfactory ; for it was always possible that the coal-dust , in falling through the branch D , might diminish the quantity of air sufficiently to enable it to form an explosive mixture with the constant quantity of gas entering the apparatus .
On the 4th of December last a serious explosion occurred in New Tredegar Colliery , and on the 6th two others followed , in Swaithe and Llan Collieries .
I made an official investigation into the circumstances attending the explosion in the last-mentioned colliery , and was fortunate enough to be able to visit the workings within two and a half hours after its occurrence , when the ventilation was only partially restored .
At that time the air in all the unventilated parts of the workings near the level in which the explosion had taken place ( as far as they could be explored with safety ) was so charged with co , , and other products of the imperfect combustion of coal , that it was difficult to distinguish objects two or three feet distant .
During this and subsequent visits to these workings , I ascertained that the floor of the level already referred to was covered with a layer of dry coal-dust , mixed with small pieces of coal and stone , throughout its entire length ( 130 yards ) ; that for about 50 yards next its inner end the ventilation of the level itself , and of the working-places branching from it , depended almost , if not altogether , on a convection-current and diffusion ; and that firedamp was given off occasionally by the coal and strata at the face of the level , and in two other places 50 or 60 yards further out , in sufficient quantity to form small explosive accumulations .
It was asserted , moreover , that no accumulation of explosive gas was known to exist anywhere in , or near , this part of the workings an hour before the accident ; and as there were naked lights in each of the working-places , an explosive accumulation which might be formed in one of them could not find its way into any of the others without passing one of these lights and being ignited by it .
It was impossible , therefore , that a large accumulation of gas could have been formed within the hour which preceded the explosion .
On the other hand , there were traces of coked coal-dust on the timbers , Composition in 100 parts .
Marsh-gas ... ... . .
Hydride of ethyl . .
Carbonic anhydride Nitrogen ... ... . .
94*78 0*90 0*72 3*60 100*00 876 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
359 [ tending over a distance of 322 yards of the workings , pointing to the resence of a large body of inflammable matter ; and yet the amount of amage done was insignificant .
The traces on the props undoubtedly idicated the direction in which the air was travelling when the coked oal-dust 'was deposited ; and I could not satisfactorily reconcile the arious directions indicated in this way , except on the supposition that be inner end of the level ( O , fig. 2 ) had been the origin of the explosion ; hat in the level itself and in the two places ( O ' , 0 " ) branching from it to he dip ( the only branches in which the traces were distinct ) , the coke vas deposited during the retrograde movement of the air ; and that in the daces leading from the outer end of the level ( O ' " ) it was deposited luring its outward movement .
If we supposed , for example , that all the coke had been deposited while he air was moving away from the origin of explosion , it would be necessary to assume three distinct origins , one in each of the dip places at ooints where no gas could possibly accumulate ( O ' , 0 " ) , and one at the )uter end of the level ( O ' " ) , where there was no cavity in the roof , and where the whole of the ventilation was passing .
Every circumstance tended to show that some explosive gas had accumulated at the inner end of the level , where there was no ventilating current ; that this gas had ignited at one of the naked lights , raising a cloud of dust along the level by its explosion , and that there had been sufficient firedamp in the air occupying the level to form a weak explosive mixture when the coal-dust was added .
There could be no doubt whatever that the whole of the air in the level contained some firedamp , so that it became a matter of importance to ascertain the smallest quantity required to make air explosive when coal-dust is added ; and with this object in view I made further experiments on the 13th of December .
The apparatus at Llwynypia Colliery was altered somewhat .
Eig .
3 Mr. W. Galloway the Influence [ Mar 2 represents the new arrangement .
The same wooden box was employed .
but instead of connecting it to the top of the upcast , a small blowing-fan ( A ) driven by a steam-turbine was joined to it at one end , and the other end was left open .
B and D are windows ; C the hopper for coal-dust ; and E one of two sluice-valves , which can be pushed into the box from each side until they meet in the middle , when they stop the air-current coming from the fan .
The fan draws the air into two chambers , one above and the other below the blades ; from these chambers the air passes into the fan itself , downwards and upwards through central openings , and is expelled into the apparatus through a tangential pipe .
The firedamp-pipe passes through one of the air-holes into the lower chamber , and , being turned up at the end , terminates close to the blades .
The whole of the firedamp coming from the blower is allowed to pass into the fan ; and as there is always an inward draught through the air-inlets , the whole of it passes into the apparatus thoroughly mixed with air .
The qualitative experiment with this apparatus is made in the following way:\#151 ; The fan having been set in motion , a current of air and firedamp traverses the apparatus in the direction of the arrow .
A safety-lamp is then placed in the box opposite the window ( B ) , and the velocity of the current is increased by opening the valves at E until the flame of the lamp gives no indication of the presence of the firedamp .
After this the safety-lamp is removed and two naked lights substituted , one opposite each window ; and coal-dust is supplied through the hopper .
As soon as the cloud of coal-dust reaches the flame at D , it takes fire , and either explodes backwards against the current , or fills the box with a red flame from D to the end , according to the amount of firedamp in the mixture .
Meanwhile the lamp at B continues to bum exactly as before , showing no indication of the presence of the firedamp .
This experiment is quite conclusive .
The quantitative experiment is slightly different .
A safety-lamp is placed at B , and the valves at E are closed very gradually until the current becomes explosive ; the velocity is then measured at D by means of a small anemometer , observed through the window .
After this the valves are opened to any desired extent ; the velocity of the current is again measured ; the anemometer is removed , and a naked light substituted for it at D , and coal-dust is admitted at C. On the 16th of December I found that the current of air and firedamp alone was just explosive when its velocity was 155 feet per minute ; and two other observations , made during the intervals between the experiments with coal-dust , gave respectively 156 and 153 feet .
Again , on the 5th of January it became explosive at 150 feet per minute .
On the former occasion the velocity was increased to 296 , 331 , 337 , 440 , 523 , and 543 feet per minute , and on the latter to 714 , 808 , 900 , and 1060 .
1876 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
361 At the whole of these velocities the mixture became instantly inflammable when coal-dust was added to it , and filled the apparatus from B to 0 with a large smoky flame , which set the wood on fire when continued for more than a few seconds .
At a rather higher velocity than the last , the coal-dust did not make the mixture inflammable ; I did not , however , determine the exact point at which it ceased to have this effect .
By other experiments I found that a mixture consisting of 1 volume of this firedamp and 15 volumes of air is inflammable , and that with 16 volumes of air it is not inflammable at a temperature of 57 ' Fahr. Making use of these data , then , to calculate the composition of the mixture passing through the apparatus during the last of the second series of experiments , we find that the relative volumes of gas and air were 9-375 and 140-625 at a velocity of 150 feet per minute ; whereas they were 9-375 and 1050-625 at 1060 feet per minute , or 1 firedamp to 112-06 air in the latter case .
In order to obtain reliable results from these experiments , it was necessary to have some means of ascertaining that the whole of the firedamp entered the apparatus at the low velocities , and that the fan exerted no exhausting force on the gas-pipe in the opposite cases .
For this purpose the 2-in .
gas-pipe was terminated at a distance of 16 inches from the fan , and the gas was conducted from this point to the centre of the fan-chamber , through a lg-inch pipe fitted loosely into the former to a distance of about a foot ; a very delicate means of observing the state of the pressure in the gas-pipe was also provided by having a small hole punched in it at a distance of 15 feet from the fan , and keeping a jet of gas continually burning at that point .
When the velocity of the current was low , gas escaped through the space between the two pipes , and discovered its presence when a light was applied to it .
It was then necessary to close some of the air-inlets to the fan , either partially or wholly , until a flame held at the junction of the gas-pipes was drawn inwards ; at the same time the flame of the jet 15 feet off had to be carefully observed , so that the closing of the inlets might not be carried too far .
When the velocity was greatest , on the other hand , all the air-inlets were opened ; and although air was drawn through the junction of the gas-pipes , the height of the flame of the jet already referred to did not diminish to an appreciable extent .
Having ascertained in the manner just described that when air contains only a very small quantity of firedamp ( 0*892 per cent , of its volume ) it is capable of forming an inflammable mixture with coal-dust , we are naturally led to inquire into the means by which the presence of firedamp is usually ascertained in mines ; and we find that the universal practice at the present day is to carry a safety-lamp into the atmosphere to be examined , and observe the indications of the flame .
When the atmosphere is explosive , or nearly so , these indications are unmistakable ; but when the proportion of firedamp is small , it is necessary to pull down VOL. xxiv .
2 E Mr. W. Galloway on the Influence [ Mar. 2 , the wick until the flame is only about an eighth of an inch high ( that is to say , until it has little or no yellow colour remaining ) , and observe whether it has a " cap " above it or not .
The cap is a spindle-shaped or conical blue flame , more transparent than , and appearing to rest upon , the oil-flame ; it seems to be due to the combustion of that part of the mixture of firedamp and air which becomes heated to the temperature at which its active constituents can combine .
It is known that when the cap is large , there is much firedamp in the air ; when it is small that there is little ; and when there is no cap , it is almost , if not quite universally assumed that there is no firedamp present .
There is not , however , so far as I know , any published information of a definite kind concerning the appearances presented by the cap in mixtures of firedamp and air in different proportions ; I have therefore made a few experiments in order to obtain these data for the purposes of this paper .
The experiments were made on the 17th of January , in the cabin near the bottom of the No. 3 Pit , Llwynypia Colliery .
The firedamp employed was from the same source as that with which the coal-dust experiments were made , and was obtained from a pipe close to the door of the cabin .
The apparatus consisted of a measuring-cylinder , a mixing-cylinder , a lamp , a bucket for holding water , and some india-rubber tubes .
The measuring-cylinder ( fig. 4 ) is 10 inches long by 2 inches in diameter ; it has a cock ( a and b ) in the middle at each end , and a branch cock from each of these ( c and d ) ; it has also a water-gauge a , opposite which there are marks and figures on the cylinder showing the parts into which its volume can be divided .
The mixing ' 876 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
363 ylinder ( fig. 5 ) is 2 feet long by 8 inches in diameter ; it has a cock ( e and/ ) tt each end , a water-gauge at the side , and a scale , each division of which represents one volume of the measuring-cylinder .
In the interior t is divided into three compartments by two diaphragms ( g and ) ; these jompartments communicate with each other through ten |-inch holes o o ) in each diaphragm , ranged in a circle whose centre is the axis of ; he cylinder .
Fig. 6 represents the essential parts of the lamp apparatus in section .
It consists of a wick-holder and an oil vessel , above which there is a chamber 6 , with a branch pipe ( a ) on one side and a circular opening ( o o ) on the top .
This is surmounted by a glass chimney c d ) covered on the top with a piece of tin-plate ( c ) , in which there is a 1 |-inch round hole ( 6).The water-bucket is of the same capacity as the i mixing-cylinder , and has a cock on one side at the bottom .
The indiarubber tubes are used for the purpose of connecting the cylinders with \gt ; each other , with the water-bucket , \amp ; c. Each cylinder can be filled with water or emptied , as may be required , by connecting the cock at its lower \#187 ; end with the one in the water-bucket , and placing it below or above the evel of the water in that vessel after the cocks have been opened .
Both cylinders are filled with water in the first place : the water in ; he larger one is then allowed to flow out , the cock at its upper end being open to the atmosphere , until it contains any desired number of f volumes of air , each volume equal to the capacity of the smaller cylinder .
The cock at the top of the smaller cylinder is connected with the gas-pipe ; the branch cock c is opened , and firedamp allowed to pass through it so as to expel the air from the india-rubber tube ; the jet of gas is ignited and kept burning , while the water is permitted to flow out at b until the required volume of gas is obtained : all the cocks are then closed .
The two cylinders are now connected together at both top and bottom , care being taken that the upper connecting-tube is filled with firedamp and the lower one with water when the connexion is made ; the four cocks are opened , and the small cylinder is so placed that its top is just below the level of the water in the other .
The gas is thus quickly trans- 364 Mr. W. Galloway Influence [ Mar. 2 , ferred to the mixing-cylinder , and after this all the cocks are closed and the cylinders disconnected .
With this apparatus the volumes of gas and air can be measured with considerable accuracy and rapidity .
The quantity of water remaining in the mixing-cylinder varied in the different experiments from 60 to 300 cubic inches .
Accordingly , when this cylinder was inverted , the water ran down through the holes in the diaphragms into the lowest compartment , and a corresponding volume of the gases was forced to take the opposite course ; and I found that by inverting it forty times in succession and pausing each time until the sound of the running water had ceased , a comparatively perfect mixture of the gases was obtained for each experiment .
The homogeneity of the different parts of these mixtures was attested by the fact that , whereas the whole of the one composed of 1 volume of firedamp and 15 volumes of air was inflammable , none of the mixture of 1 firedamp to 16 air was so .
' The wick of the lamp ( fig. 6 ) having been carefully trimmed , was drawn down until the flame presented the appearance of a small blue hemisphere , about g inch high by | inch diameter at the base , and having a conical speck of yellow in the middle near the top ; the tube a was then connected with the top of the mixing-cylinder , and the mixture was forced into the chamber bat the rate of about 2| cubic inches per second .
All other lights were removed from the cabin during this part of the experiment , and the various phenomena were observed in what would have been total darkness but for the feeble light of the lamp itself .
The different mixtures employed consisted of 1 volume of firedamp to 14 , 15 , 16 , 18 , 20 , 25 , 30 , 40 , 50 , and 60 volumes of air .
The experiThe dotted line between 15 and 16 represents the asymptote .
18/ 6 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
365 meats were begun at 11 a.m. , and concluded at 6 p.m. The meteorological observations inside the cabin at 3.15 p.m. were:\#151 ; temp. 57 ' Fahr. ; humidity 79 ; bar .
3015 .
The same water was employed in all the experiments ; and it may be safely assumed that the humidity of the mixtures of firedamp and air was 100 .
The following phenomena were observed in connexion with the different mixtures:\#151 ; 1 firedamp to 14 air\#151 ; slightly explosive .
1 to 15\#151 ; inflammable : the flame of the mixture would not pass down through the hole in the tin-plate cover of the chimney ; but when the small flame , employed to ignite it , was put through the hole to a depth of \ inch or so below the tin-plate cover , the mixture ignited , and a horizontal , waving sheet of blue flame , occupying the whole sectional area of the chimney , passed down through it in about two or three seconds , and was extinguished on reaching the bottom .
1 to 16 gave a voluminous , waving , spindle-shaped , pale blue cap 3| inches high .
Fig. 8 represents the forms and sectional dimensions of the various " caps , " from sketches and measurements taken at the time they were observed .
366 Mr. W. Galloway on the Influence [ Mar. 2 , 1 to 18\#151 ; a similar cap 2 inches high , which burned rather more steadily .
1 to 20\#151 ; a cap 1T5^ inch high , with nearly parallel sides to about two thirds of its height , and drawn out to a point at the top .
This cap was perfectly steady , and more distinct than any of the others .
1 to 25\#151 ; a conical cap \to inch high .
1 to 30\#151 ; a conical cap S inch high .
1 to 40\#151 ; a conical cap ^ to | inch high .
1 to 50\#151 ; an exceedingly faint cap S inch high , the top having the appearance of being broken off .
1 to 60-\#151 ; it was hardly possible to distinguish any thing above the small oil-flame .
If there was any cap ( which the manager of the pit and two of the firemen who were present considered excessively doubt- .
ful ) , it was represented by the frustum of a cone , of which the sides only were visible , little more than y1^ inch high .
The firemen , whose principal occupation is to examine the workings daily for any symptoms of firedamp , both asserted positively that they would consider an atmosphere in which the small oil-flame burned as it did in this mixture to be perfectly free from gas .
When the height of the oil-flame was increased to | inch it became luminous , and then the cap was invisible in all the mixtures consisting of 1 volume of gas to 25 volumes and upwards of air .
Similarly , the cap is invisible in all mixtures down to the explosive one with higher oil-flames .
On comparing these results graphically ( fig. 7 ) , the divisions of the base line , measured from left to right , representing the number of volumes of air to one of firedamp , and the length of the ordinates giving the heights of the corresponding caps , measured from the top of the oil-flame , it is seen that the curve drawn through the extremities of the ordinates is roughly approximate to the form of a rectangular hyperbola .
I have therefore drawn that curve for comparison through the top of the ordinate which corresponds to 20 volumes of air .
It is evident that the heights of these caps are in some degree propor tional to the quantity of firedamp consumed above the oil-flame per unit of time ; and , although the methods by which they were obtained are far from perfect , the results seem to point to the existence of a simple relationship between the initial temperature , the heat of combustion , and the specific heat of the various gases contained in the mixtures .
To recapitulate in a summary manner what has been already said in the preceding pages of this paper , we have now two principal facts before us , which are these :\#151 ; 1 .
A mixture of firedamp and air , in the proportion of 1 volume of the former to 60 , or more , volumes of the latter , gives no reliable indication of the presence of the inflammable gas , when tested in the manner usually , if not always , adopted in mines .
2 .
A mixture of firedamp and air , in the proportion of 1 volume or the former to 112 of the latter , becomes inflammable at ordinary pressure 876 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Eocpiosions .
367 nd temperature , when charged with line dry coal-dust , such as that which i to be found on the roadways in dry coal-mines .
It seems , therefore , only reasonable to conclude that an explosion , riginated in any way whatever , in a mine of this class , may extend itself o remote parts of the workings where the presence of firedamp was quite unsuspected .
It is by no means so uncommon as might be imagined to find the air it the face of the workings and in the return air-courses of what are onsidered to be well-ventilated mines showing a cap at least ^ inch high \gt ; n the small oil-flame .
I refer to my own observations in mines abound-ng in dry coal-dust , and reported to be free from gas , because no inflam-nable accumulation was known to exist in them at the time .
In these ; ases the firedamp appears to be given off quietly at a uniform rate along he face of the coal , but nowhere in such quantity as to render the atmosphere locally inflammable .
To give some notion of the volume of gas { iven off in this way , I need only mention that , in one instance , I found in air-current , whose volume amounted to 34,000 cubic feet per minute , ho wing a cap | inch high .
Taking this case as an example , we may mppose the amount of air to be doubled , so that where a cap | inch ligh was to be found formerly there is now no trace of gas .
Then we mow that , so long as the coal-dust remains undisturbed , naked lights night be used with perfect safety ; but let it once be raised and ignited 5y a small local explosion of firedamp , or by a shot such as that which mused the explosion in the Campagnac Colliery , and the final results may be of the most serious description .
In this way some of the great explosions which have occurred in mines supposed to be almost , if not piite , free from explosive gas may perhaps be accounted for .
The explosion in the Campagnac Colliery might possibly have been partly due to the presence of a small proportion of firedamp in the atmosphere of the working-place in which it occurred .
That place had been iriven in coal to a distance of 25 metres beyond the ventilating-current of the district , and was ventilated only by an eddy which passed inwards along the floor and returned along the roof ; and , although no firedamp bad been found in it , the workmen were provided with a safety-lamp with which they were expected to make a careful examination before igniting a shot .
This precaution was considered necessary , since slight explosions had taken place in other parts of the same mine .
Lastly , the working-place was quite level , so that it offered no opportunity for an accumulation of explosive gas to be formed in it .
The most striking circumstance , however , connected with this explosion is that , although it raised a dense cloud of coal-dust along the gallery which formed the prolongation of the place in which it occurred , to a distance of from 130 to 150 metres , the flames do not appear to have extended more than 7 metres beyond the point at which they first encountered the ventilating-current .
Mr. W. Galloway on the Influence [ Mar. Similarly , in the case of the Llan explosion , I found that , at a distance of 15 yards or so beyond the point where the principal air-current was met ( Jc , fig. 2 ) , the traces of coked coal-dust on the timber began to grow fainter ; and although they could be found here and there to a distance of 70 yards further towards e , they were indistinct for the last 40 yards , and resembled sparsedly scattered grains of gunpowder .
Let the plane on which figure 2 is described be elevated , so that the line a c dips towards c at an angle of 10 ' while / O ' " is level ; then each line on the drawing represents a gallery about 8 feet wide by 5 feet high with solid coal on each side and rock above and below .
O'"/ is the level referred to formerly ; the roof had fallen so as to fill up most of the gallery ( i ) , and several of the places ( ssl\amp ; c. ) were also partially or wholly filled up .
O is the only-working-place shown ; the others were in the pillars immediately above the level .
All the galleries terminate as shown in the figure , except a , b , c , d , and e , which may be supposed to continue indefinitely .
Bends of no consequence from our present point of view are omitted .
Those galleries and parts of galleries in which traces of coked coal-dust were found are shown by means of plain lines , and the others by dotted lines .
There was a trap-door in the gallery a and a stopping in b where the traces terminate ; both were blown out ; there was also a stopping at g. The arrow-heads show the direction in which the air was evidently travelling when the coke was deposited on the timbers .
Before leaving this part of the subject it may not be out of place to make a few remarks on the influence of blasting-shots in giving rise to explosions in mines .
I have already had the honour of submitting a paper on the same subject to this Society , published in USTo .
154 of the ' Proceedings ' for 1874 .
In that paper experiments were described which showed that an intense sound-wave , such as that originated by a blown-out shot , was able to pass the flame through the wire-gauze of a safety-lamp burning in an explosive mixture .
The two hypotheses advanced in the reports of the Inspectors of Mines to account for the simultaneousness of explosions of firedamp with the firing of shots were also mentioned ( p. 443 ) ; and I purpose again to refer to one of these , namely , that which supposes the firedamp to be ignited directly by the flame of the shot .
There can be no doubt that the gases which issue from a shot-hole have a sufficiently high temperature to ignite an explosive mixture of firedamp and air if they pass into it immediately .
I exploded such a mixture of coal-gas and air many times by firing a pistol-shot into it when making experiments at the Meteorological Office in the beginning of the year 1873 .
It seems exceedingly doubtful , however , whether the gases even from a heavily-charged shot which blows out the tamping will retain a sufficiently high temperature to ignite a mixture of this kind at a distance of a few yards , if they have to pass through a space filled with pure air before reaching it .
On the other hand , it may be reasonably supposed S76 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
369 bat .
if the same shot were fired in various mixtures of firedamp and air 5s flame would be prolonged more and more as these mixtures drew earer to the explosive point , somewhat in the same measure as the cap n the flame of a lamp enlarges under the same circumstances .
This pro-onged flame might even partake of the nature of a local explosion of redamp , especially if augmented by the presence of a small quantity of oal-dust , although those who fired the shot had not been able to discover he existence of any explosive gas beforehand .
I undertook to investigate he nature of mixtures of gas and air which are not explosive at ordinary \gt ; ressure and temperature , when I applied to the Government-Grant Com-aittee for assistance in 1872 ; but I regret to have to say that , from various auses , I have not yet been able to carry out the necessary experiments .
M. Vital has given experimental results which tend to show that the lame of a shot is prolonged in a mixture of coal-dust and air .
I have epeated his experiments with gunpowder , but without much success , laving only once succeeded in getting the flame to appear at the end of ; he apparatus ( fig. 3 ) , when the shot was fired from a pistol in the posi-ion p ; and as the mixture of coal-dust and air was travelling in the same direction at the rate of about 500 feet per minute , some deduction must be made on that account .
The charge consisted of 1*365 gramme if gunpowder well rammed .
I also placed a shield at O , and fired many shots through a hole in the centre into the current charged with coal-dust ; the amount of gunpowder varied from 2| grammes downwards , but on no occasion did the mixture seem to ignite .
It is always possible , however , that if coal-dust could be made fine enough , and were thoroughly mixed with dry air in the proportion of about 1 pound to 160 cubic feet of air , the mixture might be inflammable at ordinary temperature , or , if not , it might at least be so nearly inflammable that an explosion begun in it in a confined space might be propagated through it .
Without some further proofs , therefore , it would be premature to draw any positive inference from my experiments with gunpowder-shots , as they are by no means so satisfactory as I could wish ; and I am glad to be able to state that Professor Marreco , of Newcastle-on-Tyne , intends to investigate this question with more substantial apparatus .
The occurrence of three great explosions within as many days in the beginning of December last , seemed to indicate the influence of some external agency tending to produce the same result in each individual case .
The barometer was high and the temperature at the surface exceptionally low at the time ; and it is well known that these atmospheric conditions are not favourable to the occurrence of explosions in which firedamp alone is concerned .
It had been often observed before that disastrous explosions happen most frequently during the winter months , and in some instances during very cold weather .
Mr. Scott has recently informed me that he pointed out the latter circumstance in the year 1867 in an official letter to the Home Office ; and in preparing the diagrams Mr. W. Galloway on the Influence [ Mar. 2 , for our papers on the Connexion between Colliery Explosions and " Weather it was remarked by both Mr. Scott and myself that several great explosions bad occurred in the years with which we had to deal ( 1868 to 1872 inclusive ) during weather very similar to that which prevailed in the beginning of December last .
This phenomenon was more marked , however , on the last occasion than at any time during my own experience ; and while I was investigating the causes of the Llan explosion the following explanation presented itself to me , which I have now the honour of submitting to the consideration of the Eellows of this Society , with the remark that this part of the subject will be more minutely investigated by Mr. Scott and myself .
If we assume that the magnitude of some colliery explosions has been determined by the presence of coal-dust in the workings , and that the hygrometric state of coal-dust changes with the humidity of the air with which it is in contact , then it is an obvious conclusion that explosions of this kind will be most likely to occur when the air in the mines is driest ; for at such times not only will the coal-dust be most easily raised into the air by the local explosion ( which we may always suppose to happen at any rate ) , but it will also be burned more easily than when it contains a larger proportion of moisture .
As an example we may take the case of a dry mine , in which the temperature of the workings is 70 ' Fahr. During warm weather the air which descends the shaft has a temperature of , say , 60 ' when it enters the intake air-course ; at this stage it is also saturated with vapour , for there is usually a little water trickling down the sides of a mine-shaft .
The temperature rises gradually as the current draws nearer to the faces , and at length attains its maximum when the newly exposed face of the coal has been passed .
During this process the humidity has also been increasing to some extent , always remaining below complete saturation , however , in a mine of this kind .
In very cold weather , on the other hand , the same current may sometimes have a temperature of 32 ' , or less , when it reaches the bottom of the shaft ; and since it passes through the same workings , its temperature rises to 70 ' as before .
It is plain , therefore , that , in the latter case , the ventilating-current must either obtain an additional supply of moisture from the workings ( about | pound for every 1000 cubic feet of air ) , or it must be drier than in the former case at every point of its course .
Prima facie , then , this process of reasoning leads us to the conclusion that explosions whose magnitude is due to the influence of coal-dust will happen most frequently during cold weather ; and , conversely , we might expect to find that the magnitude of those explosions which occur during cold weather is traceable , in some measure , to the influence of coal-dust .
The data represented graphically in figures 9 , 10 , and 11 are closely connected with this part of the subject : figs. 9 and 10 show the variations of temperature in the cabins at the bottom of Ferndale and 1876 .
] of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions , Figs. 9 \amp ; 10 .
Fires are kindled near the mouth of the Llwynypia downcast shaft to heat somewhat the air which enters it when its normal temperature is at or below the freezing-point .
This is necessary in order to prevent the formation of large masses of ice on the walls , which would be the result if the numerous springs which percolate the brickwork were permitted to freeze for a considerable time .
In this way the apparent irregularity of the temperature observed in the cabin of this mine at the beginning of December may be partly or wholly accounted for .
Llwynypia shafts , in the South Wales district , for six weeks before and after the explosions of the 4th and 6th of December last ( these dates are marked above each curve by short thick lines ) ; fig. 11 represents the numbers of great explosions which have occurred in each month of the year for the last twenty-five years ( 1851 to 1875 inclusive ) .
Femdale and Llwynypia shafts are 286 and 380 yards deep respectively .
The cabins , in which the observations of temperature are made daily , are small chambers 8 to 9 feet square by 7 to 8 feet high , formed in the coal on one side of a roadway .
Each cabin is separated from the roadway by a brick wall with a door in it , which is usually kept shut .
The door of the cabin in the Femdale mine opens into the space between two trap372 Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
[ Mar. 2 doors , in a passage which connects an intake with a return air-way .
Th side of the cabin on which the thermometer hangs is separated from tb intake air-way by a thickness of 6 yards of coal ; this point of the air way is 130 yards from the bottom of the downcast shaft , and the cui rent of air passing it amounts to 21,600 cubic feet per minute .
Th cabin in the Llwynypia mine is only 16 yards from the bottom of th shaft , and is situated at the side of one of the principal levels , where th\lt ; quantity of air passing the door is about 30,000 cubic feet per minute .
The temperatures recorded in these two positions vary very little from day to day ; and although they do not represent the actual variation taking place in the temperature of the ventilating-currents , they my be accepted , in a general way , as indices to the march of temperature ir .
the intake air-courses .
Regarding them only in this capacity , then , ii is interesting to observe that , in each case , the temperature had reached a minimum about the end of the first week in December .
The great explosions which furnish the data for figure 10 are those bj which nineteen , or more , men were killed ; twenty was originally the lowest figure , but afterwards four others were included , by each of which nineteen men were killed .
In consequence of this restriction the Llan explosion ( 17 ) is excluded , as well as many others of equal importance .
Arranging the months according to the number of explosions which took place in each , we have :\#151 ; December . .
10 October ... .
4 June ... ... 3 February . .
6 November . .
4 January 2 March . . . .
6 April 3 August 2 July .
5 May 3 September . .
1 The six months ending with March have produced thirty-two of these explosions , and the other six months only seventeen .
January is exceptionally low among the winter months , a circumstance which may perhaps have some connexion with the general cessation of work for several days at the end of the year ; and July is high among the summer months , indicating the effect of a high temperature at the surface in retarding the ventilation .
The three explosions in May happened within the same fortnight in 1852 ( May 6 , 10 , and 20 ) ; and September is particularly exempt , having only one .
It may be said in conclusion that the dangers arising from the presence of dry coal-dust in mines may be greatly diminished by having the coal-dust itself removed as far as possible , and extending the system of watering the roadways , now practised in many places for the sake of comfort .
The same precautions are recommended in M. Vital 's paper already referred to .
It should also be mentioned in this place that the ventilation of many mines will require to be largely augmented before we can reasonably expect to enjoy comparative immunity from the recurrence of explosions .

