]\gt ; Mr. G. A. Schott .
On the [ Jan. 18 , as obtained by the platinum thermometers are independent of the ratio of the bridge arms , and are , therefore , unaflected .
The values of the temperature coefficients , of the capacity for heat of water and of the specific heat of the calorimeter , remain practically unaltered , as the correction only affects the sixth significant figure .
The corrected value of in terms of a thermal unit at C. is thus , and I estimate the limit of error due to the causes mentioned in Section I of this Appendix as Hence ( assuming that ) , kilogramme-metres in latitude of Greenwich .
-lbs .
per thermal unit C. in latitude of Greenwich .
, , .
On the Reflection and Refraction of Light By G. A. SCHOTT , .
( Cantab .
) , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , formerly Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by B. T. GLAZEBROOK , , F.R.S. Received November 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to examine the consequences of supposing the transition between different refractive media to be effected continuously through a thin variable layer , to deduce expressions for the amplitudes and changes of phase of the retlected and refracted light , and to compare them with the results of experiments hitherto made on ubject .
The theories examined are the eIastic solid theories , both those assuming large velocities for the pressural wave , including Green 's , Voigt 's , and K. Pearson 's theories , and also Lord Kelvin 's contractile ether theory , and then the electromagnetic theory , in the form given by Hertz , which , it may be remarked , leads to the same equations as contractile ether theory .
The medium being continuously variable , the displacsments and stresses , or the electric and netic force components , are everywhere continuous .
The method thus avoids all hypotheses as to boundary conditions at surfaces of discontinuity .
For convenience , the first constanl portion of the medium , from which the incidental light comes , is called the first medium , the second constant part , into which the light is in part refracted , is called the second medium , the thin variable part is called the variable layer , and the arbitrarily chosen planes , which include bhe whole of the variable layer , are called the boundaries of the layer .
Since at those planes the medium is continuous , the displacements and stresses have the same values on both sides of each plane .
1894 .
] Reflection and of Light .
In tlJe first medium are assumed an incident , a reflected , and a pressural wave , and in the second a refracted and a pressural wave , the pressural waves , of course , disappearing on the contractile ether electromagnetic theories .
Taking account both of vibrations in and perpendicuIar to the plane of incidence , there are 6 amplitudes and 6 of phase , in all , 12 constants , to be detet.mined .
From the continuity of the motion at the two boundary planes of the variable layer are obtained 12 pairs of equations , of which 6 determine the motion inside the variable layer , and the remaining ones the , 6 pairs of constants .
In the actual work , inaries are used in the usual way , reducing the equations by one half , the requisite number of equations obtained at the end by changing the sign of the imaginary .
From the equations of vibl.ation in the variable Iayer and one half of the bonndary conditions , solutions are obtained in ascending powers of the thickness of the layer , which , on substitution in the remaining boundary conditions , give sufficient } ions t determine the amplitudes and phases by simple though long algebraic analysis .
The solutions are found be convergent , provided is less than the reciprocal of the greatest value of the refracbi index occurrin , .
in ths val'iable layer , being its thickness , and the wavelength in vacuo of the light employed .
This condition ives values for which are less than the hickness of a soap producing a red of the first order .
Thus the films for which the holds at all cannot possibly produce colours of thin plates , which has been stated as a possible objection by Lord Rayleigh .
The soIutions are taken as far as is necessary to give the values of tlJe amplitudes and phases correct to squares of .
The elastic solid theories lead to Green 's formulae , but the actile ether and eIectromagnetic theories give modifications of 's fornlulae , oCauchy 's type .
The corrections to the amplitudes are of , whilst the phases are of order .
If are the refracti ve indices of the media and the layer , then these terms involve certain constanbs which are functions of of the mean values of and certain combinations of The effect is considered of supposing the velocibies of the prcssural waves to be large , but finite and different , the refractive index for ffie pressural wave from the first to the second medium having any value .
The resulting formulae deviate from 's chiefly in that becomes are the large ratios of the to tho light velocity in the two media ; and tlJis value of holds for values of , so large that and .
The eifect is vays to increase , and thus Haughton 's proposal to substitute for a Mr. G. A. Schott .
On the [ Jan. 18 , quantity , in which represents the refractive index of the pressural waves or a quantity of that nature which is to be made nearly equaI to unity , cannot on any rigid theory be accepted .
Hence neither Green 's theory , nor any other rigid elastic solid theory , such as that of Voigt or of K. Pearson , can be made to agree with experiment , if we suppose the ether incompressible .
The alternative of supposing the ether contractile , will be found to agree with experiment , but there is no means of deciding between it and the electromagnetic theory as regards refraction and reflection .
These theories lead to the following expressions for the ratio of the intensities and the difference of phase of the components , polarised parallel and perpendicular to the plane of incidence , of the reflected light\mdash ; , where the amplitudes , phase retardafions of the components polarised perpendicularly ( 1 ) and to the plane of incidence , the amplitude of each incident component being taken as unity , ?
are the angles of incidence and refraction , and , are four constants depending on the refractive indices of the two media and on the constitution of the val.iable layer and satisfying the theoretical conditions , and the conditions that when the two media are erted , that is , interchanged , remain unchanged , and change sign .
The expressions for and for show that the change of difference of phase depends chiefly on also slightly modified by , and that the alteration in amplitude depends chiefly on , being only affected by A. The accuracy with which the constants can be experimentally determined is thus very different , being greatest for , less for , and least for and A. The values of the four constants are iudependently calculated for several pairs of media from experiments by Jamin , by Kurz , and by Quincke , using the method of least squares and assuming that the observations equally exact at all incidences , which is only roughly true .
The numbers for the ratio intensities and the difference of phase ated with the values of the constants rather better with 1894 .
] Rpflection and Refraction of observation than the corresponding numbers for Cauchy 's formulae , .
even as modified by incke to explain his experiments .
For inLQtance , in case of Jamin 's experiments on realgar-air , chosen at random , the probable errors of a single ation are\mdash ; according to theory , in , to Cauchy , ) , and in the diffel'ence of phase , measured in , according to the theory , , according to Cauchy , .
This superiority is due to the influence of the additional constants and ; but their fact is very slight .
that of A especially so ; in some cases A may be put zero without greatly impairing the accuracy of the theoretical formulae .
The values of , as determined from the intensity experiments within the limits of error with those deduced from the equation ; in the case of eesence of lavender-air there is a serious discl.epancy , for is , while is ; but here the error is due to the smallness of , ten times less than for any other of media ; in fact the minimum value of is only or , and an error of only a few minntes in the determination of the azimuth would make a great difference in the value of B. In cases of such difference between and , it is best to rely on the value of , which can be determined with much greater accuracy than , in some cases with mors than five times greater accuracy .
As regards the interchange of media , there were available three sufficiently accurate sets of experiments by Quincke .
The conditions referl'ed to above are satisfied with very good accuracy in the case of flintglass-air , the values of being and , and of ; for flintglass-water the numbers are , , and ; but for crown- glass-air the discrepanoy is great , aIJd Jamin and Cauchy 's corresponding relation between the ] cities , , is not so nearly satisfied ; the observed valucs of are in the three cases , , and , instead of , 1210 , and .
More accurate experiments will be necessary to test this point .
Cauchy 's theory leads to a relation between the ellipticitics of three media taken two and two , , which relation has tested by Quincke and found not at all in experiment .
The above theory has the advantage in requiring no such relatio]l .
The tlJeory discussed above merely requires the existencc of a transition film , whether due to attual transition between the of the two media or to an adventitious accumulation of Mr. O. Heaviside .
On the ransformation of [ Jan. 18 , moisture , or condensed gases , or to combinations of these causes .
And it affords an explanation of the details of reflection , which is rigid , and at least as good as the representation given by the empirical formulae of Cauchy , even as moditied by Quincke .
VI .
" " On the Transformation of Optical Wave-Surfaces by Homogerleous Strain By OLIVER AVISIDE , F.R.S. Received December 20 , 1893 .
Simplex Eolotropy .
1 .
All explanations of double refraction ( proximate , not uItimate ) rest upon the hypothesis that the medium in which it occurs is so structured as to impart eolotropy to one of the two properties , associated with and kinetic energy , with which the ether is endowed in order to account for the transmission of waves through it in the simplest manner .
It may be elastic eolotropy , or it may be something equivalent to eolotropy as regards the density .
In Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory the two properties are hose co11necting the electric with the displacement , and the magnetic force with the induction , say the permittivity and the inductivity , or and These are , in the simplest case , constants corresponding to isotropy .
The existence of eolotropy as regal'ds either of them will cause double refraction .
Then either or is a symmetrical linear operator , or dyadic , as Willard Gibbs calls it .
In either case the optical wavesurface is of the Fresnel type .
In either case the fluxes displacement and induction are perpendicular to one another in a wave-front , whilst the electric and magnetic forces are also perpendicular to one another .
But it is the netic force that is in the wave-front , coincident with the induction , in case of magnetic isotropy and electric eolotropy , the electric for bein then out of the wave-front , though in the plane of the normal and the displacement .
And in the other extremes case of electric isotropy and magnetic eoIotropy , the eIectric force is in the wavefront , coincident with the displacement , whilst the magnetic force is out of the wave-front , though in the plane of the normal and the induction .
Now , as a matter of fact , crystals may be strongly eolotropic electrically , whilst their magnetic eolotropy , if existent , is insignificant .
This , of , justifies 's ascription of double refraction to electric eolotropy .
Properties connected uith Duplex iEolotropy .
2 .
When duplex eoIotropy , electric and magnetic , is admitted , we obtain a more general kind of wave-surface , including the former two

