Behaviour of Oxy-hcemoglobin , in the Magnetic Field .
503 perature have a decidedly destructive effect upon the vitality and virulence of the organism .
I am very greatly indebted to Professor Dewar , F.R.S. , not only for a constant supply of liquid air , but also for many valuable suggestions given me during the course of the experiment , and my cordial thanks are due to Dr. Roux and the officials of the Pasteur Institute for the facilities given me at that Institution for carrying out the necessary inoculations .
" On the Behaviour of Oxy-hasmoglobin , Carbonic-oxide-hsemo-globin , Methsemoglobin , and certain of their Derivatives , in the Magnetic Field , with a Preliminary Note on the Electrolysis of the Haemoglobin Compounds .
" By Arthur G-amgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the Owens College , Victoria University .
Received and Read , June 20,1901 .
1 .
The Observations of Faraday and P on the Diamagnetic Properties of the Blood .
In the course of his investigations on magnetism and diamagnetism , read before the Royal Society in the year 1845 , Faraday* found that , notwithstanding the iron which its colouring matter contains , the blood is a diamagnetic liquid .
" I was much impressed , " he remarked , \#171 ; by the fact that blood was not magnetic , nor any of the specimens tried of red muscular fibre of beef or mutton .
This was the more striking , because , as will be seen hereafter , iron is always and in almost all states magnetic .
But in respect to this point it may be observed .
that the ordinary magnetic property of matter and this new property are in their efforts opposed to each other ; and that when this property is strong it may overcome a very slight degree of ordinary magnetic force , just as also a certain amount of magnetic property njay oppose and effectually hide the presence of this force .
" t Faraday further found the blood to behave like all the constituent tissues of animal bodies which he investigated , and was led to state that if a man could be suspended with sufficient delicacy , after the manner of Dufay , and placed in the magnetic field , he would point equatorially ; * " On New Magnetic Actions and on the Magnetic Condition of all Matter , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1846 , part 1 .
t Faraday 's * Experimental Researches in Electricity , ' vol. 3 ( 1845 ) , p. 36 , para .
2285 .
504 Prof. A. Gamgee .
On the Behaviour of for all the substances of which he is formed , including the blood , possess this property .
" * De la Eiveand Brunner , t later , suspending a bound-up frog between the poles of an electro-magnet , observed it to assume an equatorial position , thus realising Faraday 's prediction that a complex animal organism must be diamagnetic in accordance with the properties of its constituent tissues and of the water which enters so largely into their composition .
Shortly after the publication of Faraday 's researches on diamagnetism , Professor Pliicker , t of Bonn , in a well-known paper , which appeared in 1848 , after describing the characteristic behaviour of magnetic and diamagnetic liquids contained in watch-glasses placed upon and between the poles of powerful electro-magnets , gave the results of his observations on the diamagnetic properties of the blood .
He not only confirmed , by experimenting on the blood of the frog , of man , and of the ox , the accuracy of Faraday 's statements , but , by employing the microscope in his observations , he was able to show that the blood corpuscles are more strongly diamagnetic than the liquid in which they float .
S 2 .
Objects of the Present At a time when all facts bearing on the physical properties and the chemical relations and structure of the blood-colouring matter are rightly claiming the attention of many of the leading workers in physiological chemistry , it appeared to me very desirable to examine the magnetic properties of the crystalline blood-colouring matter itself , in the condition of utmost available purity , and , whatever the results might be , to extend the inquiry to its leading iron-containing derivatives .
* Faraday 's 'Experimental Researches in Electricity , ' toI .
3 , p. 36 ( 2281 ) .
f De la Eire and Brunner 's researches are only known to me at second hand from the account given of them in Valentin 's ' Grundriss der Physiologie ' ( 4 Auflage , 1855 , p. 507 ) , where an engraving is reproduced in which a bound-up frog is shown placed between the poles of an electro-magnet .
J Pliicker , ' Experimenteile XJntersuchungen iiber die Wirkung der Magnete auf gasformige und tropfbare Flussigkeiten .
' Refer to the heading ' Lber das magnetische und diamagnetische Verhalten der tropfbarfliissigen Korper , in Pog-gendorff 's Annalen der Physik und Chemie , ' vol. 73 , 1848 , p. oto , para .
49 .
S In 1874 , Dr. R. C. Shettle , in a paper read before the Royal Society ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 23 , 1875 , pp. 116\#151 ; 120 ) , gave the results of experiments which had led him to the conclusion that arterial blood is paramagnetic as compared with venous blood , which is diamagnetic , the assumed difference in magnetic behaviour being explained by the author as due to the paramagnetic properties ot the oxygen absorbed by venous blood .
In reference to these statements , the only observation which I have to make , on the basis of my own woik , is that they art entirely erroneous .
Carbonic-oxide-hccmogloUn , the Magnetic Field .
505 Although Faraday had shown that the blood is diamagnetic , and Pliicker that the blood corpuscles are more decidedly diamagnetic than the liquid in which they float , it was yet conceivable , though improbable , that the iron-containing haemoglobin would prove to be a feebly magnetic body , of which the true magnetic behaviour was concealed by the substances with which it is associated in the blood corpuscles .
Whether haemoglobin proved to be magnetic or diamagnetic , it obviously would be of great interest to examine the magnetic properties of the iron-containing substances which the blood-colouring matter yields when it is decomposed by acids in the presence of oxygen , and in the event of a difference between the magnetic behaviour of the mother-substance and its derivatives , to push the inquiry in a direction likely to lead to the discovery of the cause of the discrepancy .
In pursuance of such an object I have been led to inquire whether the pure blood-colouring matter in aqueous solution is an electrolyte , and having discovered that it is one , to examine the results of its electrolysis .
On this part of my inquiry the statements which I have to make in this paper are strictly preliminary , and , except in the first most interesting particular that oxy-hsemoglobin and CO-hsemo-globin separate in the first instance unchanged from their aqueous solutions when these are subjected to very feeble currents , are to be considered as liable to correction by future more extended work .
3 .
The Electro-magnet employed in the present Research .
The electro-magnet employed was constructed by Lad many years ago , and is sufficiently powerful to be employed for observations on the rotation of the plane of polarisation of light .
I had it fitted with an accurately closing glass case and with adequate arrangements for the proper suspension of the bodies under examination .
I am not possessed of instruments which would enable me to determine directly the strength of the magnetic field employed in my several sets of experiments .
The Rev. F. J. Jervis-Smith , F.R.S. , Millard Lecturer in Experimental Mechanics in the University of Oxford , to whom I had the pleasure of showing my experiments , had the great kindness to make careful measurements of the coils , and has practically reconstructed an electro-magnet similar in dimensions to mine , with the same windings , and of which the iron core derived from a similar instrument , made by Lad , was probably identical in properties to that in my electro-magnet .
Using Professor Rowland 's method for determining the field , he obtained the following results :\#151 ; Intensity of the earth 's horizontal magnetic component at Oxford = 0T8 .
Distance between faces of pole pieces , 3 cm .
506 Prof. A. Gamgee .
On the Behaviour of Current in Amperes .
Magnetic Field in C.Gr .
S. units .
2-4 516 33 700 4-2 870 Probably it is safe as an approximate estimate to assume that my field was about 1000 C.G.S. units with a current of 5 amperes .
All the fundamental experiments on the magnetic properties of oxyhemoglobin , CO-hemoglobin , and methsemoglobin were made by suspending cakes of the dried crystalline bodies by means of one or a few fibres of silk between the poles , thus avoiding the disturbing influence of glass tubes , however feebly magnetic .
In the case of hsemin the substance was similarly examined , in the first instance , by suspending as far as possible rectangular cakes formed by the aggregation of microscopic crystals .
In the case of hasmatin , the substance , being in an amorphous pulverulent condition , was necessarily examined in glass tubes , but its intensely magnetic properties prevented in its case , as in that of hsemin , any difficulties arising from the very feebly magnetic properties of the glass tube containing it .
4 .
Oxy-hcemoglobin a strongly Diamagnetic Body .
The oxy-hsemoglobin employed in the present research was prepared by myself during the past winter from the blood of the horse by employing substantially the method of Hoppe-Seyler .
In some cases the blood corpuscles were separated from the defibrinated blood by long continued centrifugalising ; generally , however , the defibrinated blood was mixed with ten times its volume of a mixture made by diluting 10 volumes of saturated NaCl solution with 90 volumes of distilled water , and the corpuscles were then separated by means of the centrifuge .
In either case , the magma of corpuscles was treated with a small quantity of distilled water and pure ether , and the mixture having been thoroughly agitated in a stoppered separating funnel , the aqueous solution of the blood-colouring matter was separated and filtered into flasks surrounded with ice , and subsequently treated with one-fourth of its volume of pure absolute alcohol at a temperature of \#151 ; 5 C. , and the mixture placed in an ice chamber for twenty-four or thirty-six hours .
The oxy-haemoglobin which crystallised was separated from its mother-liquor by means of the centrifuge .
The crystalline mass was repeatedly washed with ; distilled water at 0 ' C. , and the washed crystals treated with distilled water at 30 ' C. ; the saturated solution Carbonic-oxide-hcemoglobin , \amp ; c. , Magnetic Field .
507 was rapidly centrifugalised , rapidly filtered into flasks surrounded by ice and salt , and the haemoglobin caused to crystallise by the addition of absolute alcohol under the prolonged influence of cold .
After being crystallised three times , the oxy-haemoglobin was collected on filters , and the moist mass of microscopic crystals drained .
The pasty crystalline mass was dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid at a temperature which never exceeded 5 ' C. Behaviour in the Magnetic Field.\#151 ; An irregular mass of three times crystallised oxy-haemoglobin dried in , weighing 1-088 grammes , and measuring 18 mm. in length , 13 mm. in depth , and 13 mm. in breadth , was suspended by a couple of fibres of unspun silk between the poles of the magnet , the distance between these being 20 mm. ; the mass was made to rest in the axial position before the current was passed through the coils .
Three cells of an accumulator were employed ; on closing the key the mass of haemoglobin instantly assumed the equatorial position .
The experiment was repeated with masses of haemoglobin prepared at various times , and recrystallised from one to three times , and weighing from 0*5 to 2 grammes , and invariably they were found to be powerfully diamagnetic .
A specimen of oxy-haemoglobin of the horse , kindly prepared for me under the direction of Professor Hofmeister in the Chemico-Physio-logical Laboratory of the University of Strasburg , by the ammonium-sulphate method , and which had been five times crystallised , proved to be as powerfully diamagnetic as the oxy-haemoglobin prepared by myself by Hoppe-Seyler 's method .
5 .
Carbonicroxide-hcemoglobin is , like Oxy-hcemoglobin , strongly Diamagnetic .
Mode of Preparation .
\#151 ; The carbonic oxide-haemoglobin employed was prepared by saturating a concentrated solution of twice crystallised oxy-haemoglobin with pure CO , and then crystallising the CO compound by the addition of absolute alcohol and exposure to a temperature of \#151 ; 5'\#151 ; 10 ' C. Behaviour in the Magnetic Field.\#151 ; A nearly rectangular prismatic mass of CO-haemoglobin which had been dried in vacuo , and which weighed 0-642 gramme , and of which the length was 17 mm. , the breadth 6"5 mm. , and the depth 13 mm. , was brought into the axial position between the poles of the electro-magnet , the distance between these being 18 mm. On passing the current from three cells of an accumulator through the coils of the electro-magnet the mass instantly assumed the equatorial position .
The experiment was repeated with different specimens of CO-haemoglobin , and invariably with the same result .
508 Prof. A. Gamgee .
On the Behaviour of In the absence of all data as to the diamagnetic moment of either Oxy- or CO-haemoglobin , it is impossible to state whether these bodies differ in any degree in respect to their behaviour in the magnetic field .
Working carefully but merely qualitatively , it would appear , however , that their behaviour in the magnetic field is identical .
6 .
Methcemoglobin is , like Oxy-hcemoglobin , strongly Diamagnetic .
The substance was prepared by adding to a saturated solution of twice crystallised oxy-haemoglobin of the horse a few drops of solution of ferricyanide of potassium until the characteristic change in colour and in the spectrum indicated the complete conversion into methaemo-globin .
The solution was cooled to - 5 ' C. , treated with one-fourth of its volume of absolute alcohol at - 10 ' C. , and the mixture placed in ice and salt for a period of thirty-six hours .
The crystalline methaemoglobin which separated was then washed with repeated quantities of ice-cold water , collected on a filter , drained , and dried in vacuo at a temperature not exceeding 5 ' C. Experiments with lumps of this substance varying in weight between 0*3 and 1*0 gramme showed it to be apparently as diamagnetic as oxy-haemoglobin .
7 .
Hcematin and Acethcemin ( Hcemin ) intensely Magnetic Substances .
Preliminary Remarks .
The more recent analysis of Jaquet , Zinoffsky,.and Hiifner have led to the conclusion that , at any rate in the horse , the dog , the ox , and the hen , there exists a remarkable constancy in the proportion of the iron which exists in haemoglobin ( 0*335 per cent.).* If it be assumed that 1 molecule of haemoglobin contains 1 atom of iron , the molecular weight of the haemoglobin of the dog , the horse , the ox , and the hen would be 16,669 , a result which concords admirably with the volume of oxygen and carbonic oxide which can enter into combination with haemoglobin on the assumption ( first of all advanced by Lothar Meyer ) that 1 molecule of haemoglobin can combine either with 1 molecule of oxygen or of carbonic oxide .
The empirical formula for the haemoglobin of the dog calculated by Jaquet from his analyses is probably very near the truth , namely , C758Hi203Ni95S3FeO2i8* Why should haemoglobin possess so enormously high a molecular weight 1 The question suggested itself to Bunge , who has furnished us with a reason which is eminently suggestive : " The enormous size of the haemoglobin molecule , " says this writer , " finds a teleological explanation , if we consider that iron is eight times as heavy as water .
* For a discussion of all the more recent analysis of hemoglobin , see my article on " Hemoglobin " in Schafer 's .
Text-book of Physiology , ' p. 199 , et \#187 ; eg .
Carbonic-oxide-hcemoglobin , Magnetic Field .
509 A compound of iron , which would float easily along with the blood current through the vessels , could only be secured by the iron being taken up by so large an organic molecule .
" " When oxy-hsemoglobin is subjected to the action of acids and alkalies it splits up with great ease into a coloured iron-containing body and into an albuminous body ( or mixture of such bodies ) .
The former , to which the name of Hsematin has been given , is a derivative of the molecular group existing in the blood-colouring matter , upon which its colour , its spectroscopic characters , and its physiological properties doubtless depend , though it is a derivative which is unquestionably a product of oxidation , and in no sense represents the real hcemochromogen .
According to Hoppe-Seyler , the empirical formula of hsematin is C34H3505N4Fe , whilst according to Nencki its composition is represented by the formula C32H32C\gt ; 4N4Fe .
When the decomposition of oxy-hsemoglobin is effected by glacial acetic acid in the presence of alkaline chlorides , a perfectly crystalline substance separates , which has been hitherto known under the name of hcemin , but which we shall now , following the suggestion of Nencki , term acethcemin .
This body was looked upon by Hoppe-Seyler as a hydrochloride of hsematin ; the recent researches of Nencki and Zaleski have shown that acethsemin contains 8-59 of iron , and possesses a composition represented by the formula C34H3304N4ClFe ; it contains an acetyl group , and both the acetyl and chlorine in it are linked to the iron .
When this body is dissolved in weak solutions of sodium hydrate in the cold , the chlorine and acetyl are separated , and on neutralisation with acids , hsematin of composition C32H3204N4Fe is obtained .
It is with these two coloured iron-containing decomposition products of hsemoglobin , hsematin and acethsemin , that my observations have been carried out .
Before referring to these in detail , I wish again to insist that these oxidation-products in no sense represent the unaltered iron-containing group to which the blood-colouring matter owes its physiological properties .
As Hoppe-Seyler showed , when hsemoglobin is decomposed by acids and alkalies in the absence of all traces of oxygen , hsematin is never formed , but a colouring matter which possesses the same spectrum as that which had previously been described by Stokes as that of reduced hsematin .
4 This substance Hoppe-Seyler called hsemochromogen , and he expressed the opinion that it constitutes the veritable coloured radical upon which the physiological properties of hsemoglobin depend .
The experimental facts advanced by Hoppe-Seyler have always appeared to me absolutely inadequate to warrant this hypothesis , which , however , is most suggestive , and demands a thorough and a new investigation .
510 Prof. A , Gamgee .
On the Behaviour of Oxy-hcemoglobin , A. Magnetic Properties of Acethcemin .
The acethsemin employed in the present research was prepared by me from ox 's blood by the method of Schalfijew .
Some of the specimens were purified by recrystallisation from glacial acetic acid , others by dissolving in a chloroformic solution of pure quinine , and subsequently adding to the filtrate hot glacial acetic acid , saturated with NaCl* My first observations were made with a block of agglomerated hsemin crystals weighing 0-6455 gramme , and measuring 26 mm. in greatest length , 18 mm. in height , and 6 mm. in thickness : this block was suspended by two fibres of silk , so as to occupy the equatorial position in reference to the pole pieces of the magnet .
The distance between the poles being 30 mm. , on passing a current from three accumulator cells through the coils , the mass instantly assumed the axial position , and was strongly attracted to the nearest pole , the suspending silk fibres being sensibly deflected from their original vertical position .
Even when the poles of the electro-magnet were 40 mm. apart , the mass instantly set in an axial position when the current was passed .
The observations were repeated with numerous specimens of hsemin , and always with similar results .
B. Magnetic Properties of Hcematin .
The hsematin employed in these researches was prepared by dissolving recrystallised and perfectly pure acethsemin in a weak solution of chemically pure sodium hydrate at ordinary temperatures , and precipitating the filtered solution without delay by neutralising with dilute sulphuric acid .
The precipitated hsematin was thoroughly washed , drained , and dried .
In consequence of its absolutely amorphous pulverulent character , my magnetic observations on this body were conducted with the aid of tubes of very feebly magnetic glass , containing from 0-1 to 0*4 of pure hsematin .
The intensely magnetic character of hsematin was as easily demonstrated as had been that of acethsemin .
8 .
Preliminary Observations on the Electrolysis of Solutions of Pure Oxy-hcemoglobin and The remarkably definite results of my research , which had shown that Oxy- and CO-hsemoglobin are decidedly diamagnetic substances , whilst their iron-containing derivatives , acethsemin and hsematin , are * Refer to my previously quoted article in Schafer 's .
Text-book of Physiology and to Nencki and Zaleski 's recent article " Untersuchungen uber den Blutfarbstoff .
1 .
Ueber die Aether des Hamins " ' Zeitschrift fur Physiologische Chemie , vol. 30 , 1900 , p. 384 , et seq_ .
Carbonic-oxide-hcemoglobin , \amp ; c. , the Magnetic .
511 powerfully magnetic , naturally led me to speculate on the possible cause of these differences .
It appeared to me that if haemoglobin were found to be an electrolyte , apart from the interest which would attach to the discovery of the fact , a study of the products of its electrolysis might throw great light upon the question .
Do we not know , for instance , that those compounds in which iron and other magnetic metals are present in electro-negative radicals are diamagnetic ?
* In spite of my having made great efforts to purify as completely as possible the substances with which I worked , it is questionable whether their purity was sufficient for electrolytic researches .
The experiments which I have yet made on this division of my subject must therefore be looked upon as strictly preliminary , and I hope in the course of the coming winter to extend them greatly , making use of compounds of haemoglobin which have been subjected to far more frequent recrystallisation .
In the course of these experiments , beside studying the proximate products of electrolysis with currents of different strength and potential , I intend to determine by the methods of Kohlrausch and Ostwald , with as great accuracy as possible , the specific conductivities of solutions of Oxy- and CO-haemoglobin .
The following are the results of my electrolytic experiments which I wish at present to place on record:\#151 ; Firstly .
When solutions of pure oxy-haemoglobin are subjected to electrolysis at a temperature of about 15 ' C. between platinum electrodes , from twelve to sixteen cells of a carbon zinc bichromate battery being employed , and the current passing through the liquid being from 3 to 5 milliamperes , a rapid subsidence of the colouring matter takes place , the upper layers of the solution becoming perfectly colourless .
The depositing colouring matter retains the spectroscopic character of oxyhemoglobin , and when stirred with it is absolutely and almost instantaneously soluble in the liquid from which it has separated .
Exactly the same result occurs in the case of carbonic-oxide-hae mo-globin .
Secondly .
On continuing the passage of the current through the solution in which precipitation has occurred , secondary reactions occur , gas is developed both at the anode and cathode , and in many cases a dirty white-brown deposit forms at the cathode .
Thirdly .
Under conditions of strength of current and potential which were not determined with sufficient accuracy , and which I have not yet been able to reproduce at will , the solutions of oxy-haemoglobin and CO-haemoglobin have , under the long continued action of the current , on several occasions deposited at the anode an insoluble * W. Allen Miller , * The Elements of Chemistry ' : Part I , " Chemical Physics , " p. 422 , London , 1855 ; H. du Bois , ' Proprietes magnetiques de la matiere ponderable .
Rapports presents au Congres International de Physique reunis a Paris en 1900 , ' Paris , 1901 , Tome II , p. 460 .
VOL. LXVIII .
2 O Mr. W. Duddell .
On Resistance and red colouring matter containing both the albuminous and the iron-containing residues of haemoglobin .
In the case of CO-haemoglobin the compound deposited has presented the peculiar colour of CO-haemoglobin .
General Conclusions .
The following are the conclusions to which I have been led by my experiments:\#151 ; 1 .
The blood-colouring matter , oxy-haemoglobin , as well as carbonic-oxide haemoglobin and methaemoglobin , are decidedly diamagnetic bodies .
2 .
The iron-containing derivatives haematin and acethaemin are powerfully magnetic bodies .
The differences in magnetic behaviour between the blood-colouring matter and acethaemin and haematin point to the profound transformation which occurs in the haemoglobin molecule when it is decomposed in the presence of oxygen .
3 .
The preliminary study of the electrolysis of oxy-haemoglobin and CO-haemoglobin renders it probable that , in the blood-colouring matter , the iron-containing group , on which its physiological properties depend , is ( or is contained in ) an electro-negative radical : according to analogy , the iron in such a compound would possess diamagnetic and not magnetic properties .
In conclusion , I beg to acknowledge my indebtedness to Professor von Bunge , of Basel , to Professor Franz Hofmeister , of Strassburg , and to Dr. v. Ehrenberg , the technical director of the chemical factory of Messrs. Merck , of Darmstadt , for their great courtesy and kindness , in placing at my disposal preparations of haemoglobin prepared by themselves or under their direction .
I have further to add that I reserve to myself the right of continuing without delay the researches , of which the first results are contained in this paper .
" On the Resistance and Electromotive Forces of the Electric Arc. " By W. Duddell , Whitworth Scholar .
Communicated by Professor W. E. Ayrton , F.B.S. Received and Read June 20 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The discrimination between resistances and electromotive forces in conductors , or apparatus , in which both of these quantities are functions of the current is considered , and it is pointed out that whether such an apparatus may be said to possess a resistance , or an E.M.F. , or both , depends to a large extent on the nature of the definition of these quantities , and a definition of these quantities is adopted .

