488 Dr. W. Huggins on the Spectra [ May 25 , That these paraffins have really the constitution which I have ascribed to them follows partly from their mode of formation ; thus dipropyl was obtained from the normal propyl iodide , and dibutyl from normal butyl iodide .
The constitution of the others was determined by converting them into alcohols and studying the oxidation products of the latter ; thus the hexyl hydride from petroleum , as well as that obtained from mannite , was transformed into secondary hexyl alcohol , which on oxidation yielded acetic acid and normal butyric acid .
In the communication above referred to , I placed the hydrocarbon C8 H18 from methyl-hexyl carbinol amongst another group ; but I have found now that this body is identical with dibutyl and also with the hydrocarbon which Zinke obtained from primary octyl alcohol .
This chemist prepared also dioctyl , C16 H34 , which consequently is a normal paraffin ; and it appears probable that dihexyl , which Brazier and Grossleth obtained by the electrolysis of oenanthylic acid , belongs to this group too .
We are now acquainted with the following normal paraffins:\#151 ; .
Boiling-points .
Found ( mean ) .
Calculated .
Difference .
C II4 Ca He C3 Hg HJ0 i ' i ' C5 Hia 38 ' 38 ' 37 ' c0 n14 70 ' 71 ' 33 ' C7 Hia 99 ' 100 ' 29 ' c. H18 124 ' 125 ' 25 ' CwHm 202 ' 201 ' 4x 19 ' c"hm 2/ 8 ' 278 ' 4x19 ' From this it appears that the boiling-point is not raised 31 ' for each addition of CH0 , as I formerly assumed , but that , as the calculated numbers show , the difference between the boiling-points of the lower members decreases regularly by 4 ' until it becomes the well-known difference of 19 ' .
IV .
" Note on the Spectrum of Uranus and the Spectrum of Comet I. , 1871 .
" By William Huggins , LL. D. , D.C.L. , V.P.ll .
S. Received May 10 , 1871 .
In the paper " On the Spectra of some of the Fixed Stars"* , presented conjointly by Dr. Miller and myself to the Royal Society in 1864 , we gave the results of our observations of the spectra of the planets Venus , Mars , Jupiter , and Saturn ; but we found the light from Uranus and Neptune too faint to be satisfactorily examined with the spectroscope .
* Phil. Trans. 1864 , p. 413 ; and for Mars , Monthly Notices It , Astr .
Soc. vol .xxvii .
p. 178 .
1871 .
] of Uranus and Comet I. , 1871 .
By means of the equatorial refractor of 15 inches aperture , by Messrs. Grubb and Son , recently placed in my hands by the Royal Society , I have succeeded in making the observations described in this paper of the remarkable spectrum which is afforded by the light of the planet Uranus .
It should be stated that the spectrum of Uranus was observed by Father Secchi in 1869* .
He says : " le jaune y fait completement defaut .
Dans le vert et dans le bleu il y a deux rays tres-larges et tres-noires .
" He represents the band in the blue as more refrangible than F , and the one in the green as near E. The spectrum of Uranus , as it appears in my instrument , is represented in the accompanying diagram .
The narrow spectrum placed above that of Uranus gives the relative positions of the principal solar lines and of the two strongest absorption-bands produced by our atmosphere , namely , the group of lines a little more refrangible than D , and the group which occurs about midway from 0 to D. The scale placed above gives wave-lengths in millionths of a millimetre .
The spectrum of Uranus is continuous , without any part being wanting , as far as the feebleness of its light permits it to be traced , which is from about C to about G. On account of the small amount of light received from this planet , I was not able to use a slit sufficiently narrow to bring out the Fraunhofer lines .
The positions of the bands produced by planetary absorption , which are broad and strong in comparison with the solar lines , were determined by the micrometer and by direct comparison with the spectra of terrestrial substances .
The spectroscope was furnished with one prism of dense flint-glass , having a refracting-angle of 60 ' , an observing telescope magnifying diameters , and a collimator of 5 inches focal length .
A cylindrical lens was used to increase the breadth of the spectrum .
The remarkable absorption taking place at Uranus shows itself in six strong lines , which are drawn in the diagram .
The least refrangible of these lines occurs in a faint part of the spectrum , and could not be mea- * Comptes Kendus , vol. lxviii .
p. 761 , and ' Le Soleil , ' Paris , 1870 , p. 354 .
49Q On the Spectra of Uranus and Comet I. , 1871 .
[ May 25 , sured .
Its position was estimated only , and on this account it is represented in the diagram by a dotted line .
The positions of the other lines were obtained by micrometrical measures on different nights .
The strongest of the lines is that which has a wave-length of about 544 millionths of a millimetre .
The band at 572 of the scale is nearly as broad but not so dark ; the one a little less refrangible than D is narrower than the Others .
The measures taken of the most refrangible band showed that it was at or very near the position of F in the solar spectrum .
The light from a tube containing rarefied hydrogen , rendered luminous by the induction-spark , was then compared directly with that of Uranus .
The band in the planet 's spectrum appeared to be coincident with the bright line of hydrogen .
Three of the bands were shown by the micrometer not to differ greatly in position from some of the bright lines of the spectrum of air .
A direct comparison was made , when the principal bright lines were found to have the positions , relatively to the lines of planetary absorption , which are shown in the diagram .
The band which has a wave-length of about 572 millionths of a millimetre is less refrangible than the double line of nitrogen which occurs near it .
The two planetary bands at 595 and 618 of the scale appeared very nearly coincident with bright lines of air .
The faintness of the planet 's spectrum did not admit of certainty on this point ; I suspected that the planetary lines are in a small degree less refrangible .
There is no strong line in the spectrum of Uranus in the position of the strongest of the lines of air , namely , the double line of nitrogen .
As carbonic-acid gas might be considered , without much improbability , to be a constituent of the atmosphere of Uranus , I took measures with the same spectroscope of the principal groups of bright lines which present themselves when the induction-spark is passed through this gas .
The result was to show that the bands of Uranus cannot be ascribed to the absorption of this gas .
There is no absorption-band at the position of the line of sodium .
It will be seen by a reference to the diagram that there are no lines in the spectrum of Uranus at the positions of the principal groups produced by the absorption of the earth 's atmosphere .
Spectrum of Comet 1 .
, 1871 .
On April 7 a faint comet was discovered by Dr. Winnecke .
I observed the comet on April 13 and May 2 .
On both days the comet was exceedingly faint , and on May 2 it was rendered more difficult to observe by the light of the moon and a faint haze in the atmosphere . .
It presented the appearance of a small faint coma , with an extension in the direction from the sun .
When observed in the spectroscope , I could detect the light of the coma to consist almost entirely of three bright bands .
1871.1 On a new Atmospheric-Pressure Instrument .
491 A fair measure was obtained of the centre of the middle band , which was the brightest ; it gives for this band a wave-length of about 510 millionths of a millimetre .
I was not able to do more than estimate roughly the position of the less refrangible band .
The result gives 545 millionths .
The third band was situated at about the same distance from the middle band on the more refrangible side .
It would appear that this comet is similar in constitution to the comets which I examined in 1868* .
V. " On a New Instrument for recording Minute Variations of Atmospheric Pressure .
" ByWiLDMAN Whitehouse , F.M.S. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. Communicated by R. H. Scott , F.R.S. , Director of the Meteorological Office .
Received May 8 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The occurrence of a heavy U ground-swell " on the sea-coast in perfectly calm weather suggested to the writer some years ago the possibility of atmospheric waves or pulsations accompanying a gale being propagated to a considerable distance ( irrespective of any horizontal movement of air ) , and giving evidence of the disturbance existing elsewhere .
It was seen that , even if such were the case , it would be difficult to obtain proof of it , as any ordinary observations would fail to detect it , and that it could only be attained by the adoption of a system of continuous record specially adapted to the purpose .
The writer therefore determined to design and construct an instrument with this object ; and after many trials with varied apparatus , it was decided to adopt the hydraulic principle , as affording at once the means of accumulating force sufficient to actuate the instrument , and of measuring the force itself by the alteration produced in the height of the column of water .
The use of an air-chamber was suggested by the sympiesometer ; it has , however , been enlarged to meet the altered conditions of this instrument , and is buried underground to secure freedom from all diurnal changes of temperature .
The action of the instrument essentially depends upon the flow and reflow of water between two hydraulic chambers ( connected by a tube or siphon ) , one of which is open and exposed to atmospheric pressure , the other closed at top , and removed from such pressure , being in pneumatic connexion with the buried air-chamber .
Any difference in the levels of the water in these two chambers is a measure of the variation of pressure producing it , and the water in its flow is made to move the tracing-point or pen across the paper .
In order that the objects of the research should be attained , the action must be continuous , unfailing , of great delicacy\#151 ; able to show changes of * Phil. Trans , 1868 , p. 555 ; and Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvi .
p. 386 .

