1895 ] Remarks on Variation in Animals and Plants .
379 Evidently , therefore , in spite of the abnormally great frequency with which large deviations occur , the whole percentage of abnormalities , among crabs between 7 and 14 mm. in length , is less than it is in adult crabs ; and there is a rough agreement between the result obtained from these measurements and that obtained by Bowditch from the measurements of human stature already referred to .
So that among female crabs in Plymouth Sound , during the period of life to which these observations refer , there is no indication of any destructive agency which acts selectively upon the dentary margin .
Whether such selective destruction occurs among males , or among females at a later period of life , is for the present an open question .
Variation in frontal breadth may , therefore , for the present be considered to be of more importance in the economy of female crabs than variation in the length of the dentary margin\#151 ; a view which receives confirmation from the dimorphism already shown to exist ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 54 , p. 324 ) in the frontal breadth of crabs from Naples , while it is a striking justification of the accepted system of classification , in which the characters of the great groups into which the Braehyura are divided are almost entirely those associated with changes in this dimension .
In conclusion , an important feature of the method employed may be pointed out .
The increase of death-rate , associated with a given abnormality of frontal breadth , has here been roughly determined ; in the previous paper , already referred to , the effect of abnormality in this dimension upon several other organs of the body was determined ; and by the method of that paper it would be possible to determine the effect of parental abnormality upon the offspring .
These are all the data which are necessary , in order to determine the direction and rate of evolution ; and they may be obtained without introducing any theory of the physiological function of the organs investigated .
The advantage of eliminating from the problem of evolution ideas which must often , from the nature of the case , rest chiefly upon guess-work , need hardly be insisted upon .
H. " Remarks on Variation in Animals and Plants .
To accompany the first Report of the Committee for conducting Statistical Inquiries into the Measurable Characteristics of Plants and Animals .
" By Professor W. F. R. Weldon , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1895 .
I* The importance of variation as a factor in organic evolution is not seriously disputed ; but , if one may judge from the expressions contained in recent essays , naturalists are not agreed as to the VOL. lvii .
2 E Prof. W. F. R. Weldon .
[ Feb. 28 manner in which variation among individuals is associated specific modification .
The view originally put forward hy Darwin and Wallace ia that specific modification is at least generally a gradnal process , result , ing from " the accumulation of innumerable slight variations , each good for ' the original possessor " ( 'Origin of Species , ' chap , xv ) This view rests on the assumption that each of those small differ , ences which are to be observed among a group of individuals belonging to the same species has generally some effect upon the chance of life .
" Can we doubt ( remembering that many more individuals are born than can possibly survive ) that individuals having any advantage , however slight , over others , would have the best chance of surviving and of procreating their kind P " ( ' Origin of Species , ' chap.iv ) .
Of late years , another view has received support from various writers .
An examination of any series of animals of the same species preserved in a museum shows in most cases a large majority of specimens which are superficially alike : those individual differences , upon which stress is laid by Darwin and by Wallace , are often so slight as to escape attention unless minute comparison is made between individual and individual .
But there will commonly be found a few individuals which differ so remarkably from their fellows as to catch the eye at once .
Such large deviations differ from the smaller ones , at least in most cases , by their extreme rarity ; but they have been extensively collected , and most museums contain numerous examples of their occurrence .
Some naturalists have been led , from the striking character of such variations , to assume for them a preponderant share in the modification of specific character .
These persons assume , if I understand them rightly , that the advantages or disadvantages which accompany the more frequent slight abnormalities are in themselves of necessity slight ; and that the effect of such slight abnormalities may be neglected , in comparison with the effect produced by the occasional appearance of considerable deviations from the normal type .
They regard change in specific character as an event which occurs , not slowly and continuously , but occasionally and by steps of considerable magnitude , as a consequence of the capricious appearance of " sports .
" Without presuming to deny the possible effect of occasional " sports " in exceptional cases , it is the object of the present remarks to discuss the effect of small variations , as it may be deduced from the study of two organs in a single species .
The case chosen is the variation , during growth and in adult life\gt ; of two dimensions of female Carcinus moenas , recently investigated by a Committee of the Royal Society ; and what is here said may be considered an appendix to the report of that Committee .
1895.1 Remarks on Variation in Animals and Plants .
381 2 .
The questions raised by the Darwinian hypothesis are purely statistical , and the statistical method is the only one at present obvious by which that hypothesis can be experimentally checked .
In order to estimate the effect of small variations upon the chance of survival , in a given species , it is necessary to measure the percentage of young animals exhibiting this variation ; , the percentage of adults in which it is present .
If the percentage of adults exhibiting the variation is less than the percentage of young , then a certain percentage of young animals has either lost the character during growth or has been destroyed .
The law of growth having been ascertained , the rate of destruction may be measured ; and in this way an estimate of the advantage or disadvantage of a variation may be obtained .
In order to estimate the effect of deviations of one organ upon the rest of the body , it is necessary to measure the average character of the rest of the body in individuals with varying magnitude of the given organ ; and try the application of Mr. Galton 's method of measuring correlation , a simple estimate of this effect may be obtained .
In the same way a numerical measure of the effect of parental abnormality upon abnormality of offspring may be obtained by the use of Galton 's correlation function , and such measurements have been made , in the case of human stature , by Mr ; Galton himself .
It is to be observed that numerical data , of the kind here indicated , contain all the information necessary for a knowledge of the direction and rate of evolution .
Knowing that a given deviation from the mean character is associated with a greater or less percentage death-rate in the animals possessing it , the importance of such a deviation can be estimated without the necessity of inquiring how that increase or decrease in the death-rate is brought about , so that all ideas of ' functional adaptation " become unnecessary .
In the same way , a theory of the mechanism of heredity is not necessary in order to measure the abnormality of offspring associated with a given parental abnormality .
The importance of such numerical statements , by which the current theories of adaptation , \amp ; c. , may be tested , is strongly urged .
3 .
The report itself describes an attempt to furnish some of the numerical data referred to for two dimensions of the shore crab .
The data collected give an approximation to the law of frequency with which deviations from the average character occur at various ages .
The conclusions drawn are ( a ) that there is a period of growth during which the frequency of deviations increases , illustrating arwin s statement that variations frequently appear late in life ; y ) that in one case the preliminary increase is followed by a decrease m the frequency of deviations of given magnitude , in the other case 18 n't\#187 ; and that ( c ) , assuming a particular law of growth ( which 382 Mr. H. M. Vernon .
Effect of Environment [ Feb. 28 remains , as is admitted , to be experimentally tested ) , the observe^ phenomena imply a selective destruction in the one case , and not ia the other .
It is not contended that the law of frequency at various ages adopted in the report , is exact .
It is , however , hoped that the ap .
proximation is sufficiently exact to give numerical estimates of the quantities measured , which are at least of the same order as the quantities themselves , and for this reason it is hoped that the method adopted may prove useful in other cases .
III .
" The Effect of Environment on the Development of Echinoderm Larvae : an Experimental Inquiry into the Causes of Variation .
" By H. M. Vernon , B.A. Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1894 .
( From the Zoological Station , Naples .
) ( Abstract .
) The conditions of environment under which an organism develops are known to be of considerable influence in the production of variations .
It was thought to be of interest to determine by exact measurement the effects which such slight changes in the environ-mental conditions as might occur naturally would produce in the growth of some organisms .
The animal chosen was the larva or pluteus of the sea-urchin Strongylocentrotus lividus .
These larvae develop readily from artificial fertilisations , and they can , moreover , be obtained at all times of the year , irrespective of season-The method adopted was to shake pieces of the ovaries and testes of several sea-urchins in small jars of water , and then mix the two liquids .
After standing for an hour , portions of the water containing the impregnated ova were poured into jars holding 2 to 3f litres of sea water , and these were transferred to a large tank of running sea water .
The larvae were generally allowed to develop for eight days , as the aboral and oral arms reach their maximum length in this time .
The larvae were killed by the addition of corrosive sublimate to the water , and were then , after washing in distilled water , preserved in 70 per cent , alcohol .
They were mounted m glycerine and measured under the microscope , the body-length , t e aboral arm-length , and the oral arm-length being in each case measured .
The larvae were measured in sets of fifties , and the mea\#174 ; 8 taken .
The aboral and oral arm-lengths were calculated as percentage8 on the body-length .
In all 10,000 larvae were measured .
'life The effects of temperature on development were first studied .

