I. " Researches into the Chemical Constitution of Narcotine , and of its Products of Decomposition."-Part III .
By A. MATTIIESSEN , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry in St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Received February 18 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) In this part the preparation is described of two new bases derived from narcotine .
1 .
On the Action of Hydriodie Acid on Narcotine.-When narcotine is heated with fuming hydriodic acid , iodide of methyl is evolved , and on investigating the residue it is found to consist of the iodide of a new base .
In two experiments made with 50 grms. of narcotine , 45*7 and 46'2 grms. of iodide of methyl , and in a third experiment with 100 grms. of narcotine , 91'8 grms. of iodide of methyl , were obtained , 51'5 grms. and 103'1 grms. being the theoretical quantity required for the following reaction : CP H23 N 07+3 HI=C , , H17 N 07+3 CH3 I. If the reaction C2 , 23 , N 07+2 2 HI= IC H19 , N 07+ 2C3I took place , the theoretical quantity of iodide would only be 34'3 grms. and 68'7 respectively .
The endeavours to obtain the base in a state fit for analysis have been fruitless , owing to its oxidizing rapidly when exposed to the air ; to establish its composition , the chloride was analyzed , and led to the following result : C9 I , N 07 II C1 .
The base itself is , when newly precipitated , nearly white , but as soon as it is exposed to the air it becomes almost black ; it is soluble in carbonate of sodium , caustic soda , potash or ammonia , slightly soluble in hot alcohol , quite insoluble in ether , and nearly so in water .
All endeavours to obtain it or its salts in a crystalline state have hitherto failed .
The base may be called normal narcotine , or , shorter , nornarcotine , as it contains , in all probability , normal meconin combined with cotarnimide .
2 .
On the Action of IHydrochloric Acid on NTarcotine.--When narcotine is heated with hydrochloric acid for about two hours , chloride of methyl is evolved , and on examining the residue it will be found to contain the chloride of a new base .
The reaction which takes place is simply that one atom of methyl in the narcotine is replaced by one of hydrogen ; thus : C,2 H2,3 N 07 +t C1-C , H1 N OqC Cl. The pure base forms a white amorphous powder , almost insoluble in water and ether , very , soluble in alcohol .
Its salts , like those of the other bases derived from narcotine , are , as far as they have been prepared , amorphous .
The base may be called dimethyl-normal-narcotine , or , shorter , dimethyl-nor-narcotine .
In the annexed Table the properties and reactions of the narcotine bases are given side by side .
Neither of the above bases has any marked physiological effects ; for in working with them , as well as in taking grain doses , no ill effects have been observed .
It is worthy of notice that the taste of the chlorides varies so markedly by the replacement of one atom of methyl by one of hydrogen .
Form .
Trimethyl-nor mal-narco'ine ( ordinary narcotine ) , Dimethyl normal-narcotine , C21 IH1 N 0 , .
Methyl-normalnarcotine , C20 Hl ) 07 .
White crystals .
White , amorphous .
White when freshly precipitated , sometimes brown ; amorphous .
iNorm-al narcoWhite when time , freshly preciC19 [ 7 N 07 .
pitated , turns ^ brown imme .
r diatelj on ex ' o posure to air ; ' amorphous .
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cotarnine , C12 H3 N 03 .
White , generally buff-colour , crystalline .
Solubility in o -4 ยง 22 C ) 2211 A. 02 o 2C 02 r^ d 224 2 " 25 q0 &lt; .1 0.I rQ i 25 IP4 &lt; 2C 02 Reactions of the Chlorides in solution with Concentrated Solution of Chloride .
Not precipitated by H C1 .
Solution in H Cl not precipitated by water .
Precipitated partially by H C1 .
Solution in strong H Cl precipitated by water ; the precipitated chloride is tarry .
Mostly precipitated by H Cl. Solution in strong H Cl precipitated by water ; the precipitated chloride granular .
Almost wholly precipitated by H C1 .
Solution in strong H Cl precipitated by water ; the precipitated chloride granular .
Not precipitated by H C1 .
Solution in H C1 not precipitated by water .
Taste of Chloride .
Bitter .
Bitter .
Astringert .
Tasteless .
Bitter .
Pt C14 , .
KHO .
N E4H:O .
Na C O0 .
Yellow preciPrecipitate inPrecipitate inPrec:pitate inpitate .
soluble in exsolvble in exsoluble in excess .
cess .
cess .
Yellow preciPrecipitate sopitate .
lvble in excess .
Yellow precipitate , slowly turning brown .
Yellow precipitate , imirediately turning brown .
Yellow precipitate .
Precipitate slightly soluble in excess .
Precipitate insoluble in excess .
Precipitate soPrecipitate soPrecipitate soluble in excess .
luble in excess .
luble in excess .
Precipitate soPrecipitate soPrecipitate soluble in excess .
luble in excess .
luble in excess .
II I~~~~~~~~ Precipitate Precipitate soslightly soluluble in excess .
ble in excess .
Precipitate soluble in excess .
Co co C ? .
I 03 cD * All these precipitates decompose on boiling with excess of platinum chloride .

