248 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches on [ Nov. 26 , a mass of indifferent tissue , into which pass representatives of all three germinal layers .
This must represent the primitive streak .
The persistence of the blastopore to form the anns has been demonstrated in the Amphibia , by Miss Johnson in the Newt , by Gasser in Alytes , and by Spencer in the Frog .
The fact that it persists in the Cyclostomata appears to point to the fact that this is a primitive feature retained in those eggs which have not become much modified by the presence of a large mass of yolk .
This view would be greatly confirmed if renewed observation on the development of Amphioxus should demonstrate the same fact .
IIL " Researches on Myohaematin and the Histohaematins .
" By C. A. MacMunn , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 19 , 18*85 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of observations made on the spectra of the organs and tissues of invertebrates and vertebrates , which have brought to light the presence of a series of animal colouring matter 's which had not previously been discovered .
The name histohsematins is proposed for all these colouring matters , and that of myohaematin for the intrinsic pigment occurring in striped muscle , which belongs to the same series .
These pigments are not identical with any known decomposition product of haemoglobin , and they are found in animals in whose bodies no haemoglobin can be found .
The method of examination is as follows :\#151 ; -The tissue or part of organ to be examined is put into a compressorium , by means of which any required thickness can be obtained , it is illuminated by means of a large sub-stage condenser , and examined with a Sorby 's microspectroscope fitted to a binocular microscope , the binocular form being preferred , as one tube is free for the observation of the specimen .
The source of illumination was generally an argand gas burner , sometimes direct sunlight , sometimes a Swan lamp .
The objectives of the microscope up to the one-eighth were so adapted as to enable both fields of the microscope to be fully illuminated , which is a matter of importance in dealing with small quantities of material , or in differentiating those portions of an object which give different spectra .
The Histohcematim.\#151 ; Examined in this way the organs and .
tissues of invertebrates and vertebrates present a series of spectra , which are all evidently connected with each other .
From Echinoderms to man the same appearances have been found ; thus there is a most striking 1885 .
] Myohoematin and the 249 likeness between the spectra of such organs as the ovaries of a starfish and the pancreas , stomach-'wall , kidney , and other organs of a cat , and between these and that of striped muscle throughout the whole animal kingdom .
To give an idea of the character of these spectra and their distribution is not easy in an abstract , but in general they may be said to consist of at least three bands\#151 ; one before D , one or two between D and E , and sometimes one or two others nearer violet .
When one band occurs between D and E it replaces the two found in other cases , which are of great narrowness compared with other physiological spectra .
The band before D is always the same both in the Installaematins , and in myohsematin with few exceptions .
Sometimes this kind of spectrum is replaced by another in which two narrow bands like those of reduced haematin occur nearer the violet than the bands of the latter .
It was proved repeatedly that the handed spectrum belongs to the deoxidised condition , and the handless to the fully oxidised ; accordingly these pigments are respiratory .
Among animals in which I have found these spectra a few may be enumerated with the organs in which they occur .
Thus in Echino-derms the ovaries , stomctch-wall , and other parts of show them well marked .
In molluscs , Limax few us , L. variAvion Jlehx H. pomatia , and other slugs and snails contain them in such parts as the nephridium , albumen gland , ov wall of cvop , oviduct , penis and elsewhere , and all contain myohmmatin in the muscle of the heart in both auricle and ventricle , also in the pharyngeal muscle .
In these species , as Dr. Sorby first showed , the bile contains a kind of haematic , which is evidently connected with the histohaematins for reasons given in the complete paper .
In other molluscs such as Littorina littorea , Purpura Trochus cinerarius and ziziphinus , Patella vustagnalis , edulis , Ostraea edulis , Anodonta cygnea , and others , they have been observed by the above method of examination .
In Arthropods , such as Homarus vulgaris , Astacus fluviatilis , Cancer pagurus , Carcinus moenas , and Pagurus Bernhardus , they have also been found , in sueh situations as the green glands ( of the two first ) , the stomach-wall , liver , exceptionally in the branchiae , and elsewhere .
They are also present in insects and in spiders .
In all these invertebrates ( and others ) they can be studied uninfluenced by the presence of haemoglobin .
W^herever they are seen the corresponding tissue or organ is more or less yellow or reddish-yellow , but sometimes almost colourless .
On examining vertebrates I was surprised to find the same spectra in such situations as the liver , spleen , kidney , stomach-wall , pancreas , wall of intestine , and sometimes in the ovary .
And by washing out Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches on [ Nov. 26 , the blood-vessels with salt solution , I found the bands became much better marked .
Thus :\#151 ; In fishes they have been observed in the tench , herring , roach , eel , and others .
In reptiles , in Tropidonotus natrix , Scincus officinalis , Trionyx , Emys Europcea , Lacerta viridis , and agilis .
In Amphibians , in Rana temporaria , \gt ; Salamandramaculosa , Siredon pisciform and others .
In birds , e.g. , pigeon , , owl , turkey , goose , duck , swift , \amp ; c. The gizzard of birds is , however , , mainly coloured by oxyhaemoglobin .
In Mammals , e.g. , dog , cat , rut , rabbit , guinea-pig , hedgehog , sheep , ox , pig , mouse , and man , as well as in others .
In all cases oxidation and reduction ' could be brought about .
When the bands are invisible they can be brought into view by dipping the portion of organ or tissue into Stokes's- , fluid , , or into a weak- solution of ammonium sulphide in water ; on exposure to the air they become faint .
Myohcematin.\#151 ; All the species enumerated and others have been examined for myohcematin , and in all those which possess striped muscle it has been found .
Thus in molluscs , it is found in the heart and pharyngeal muscle of Limax , Arion , Helix , and other pulmonates .
In Arthropods , in the cardiac muscle of Astacus , Cancer , Carcinus , and Pagurus , and not in their voluntary muscles ( so far ) ; also in the muscle of the cephalo-thorax of such spiders as Epeira diadema , Tegenaria civilis ( and- others ) .
In insects it is abundantly present , especially in the muscles from the thorax .
It is best marked in those which move the wings actively , such as diurnal and nocturnal lepidopters .
So far it has been found in the following insects:\#151 ; Musca domestica , and chlora , Apis mellifica , Bombas terrestris , Vespa vulgaris , Hydrophilus , Hyticus marginalis , Qeotrupes stercorarius , Lucanus cervus- , Coccinella , linus olens , Cerambyx moschatus , Creophilus maxillosus , violaceus , Periplaneta orientalis , Qryllus domesticus , viridissima , Tipula oleracea , Pieris rapae , and various other lepidopters and dipters .
It bas also been found in the mouth parts of larvae .
Among vertebrates it has been found in the heart and voluntary muscle of all the fishes , reptiles , amphibians , birds , and mammals enumerated above .
It is frequently accompanied by haemoglobin in these classes , and sometimes replaced by it. .
It may be apparently absent , but its bands may be brought into view by the use of reducing agents .
The spectrum of myohaematin is remarkable for the sharpness and narrowness of its bands , in which point it and the other histohaematins differ from any other known animal pigment .
Three bands are 1885 .
] Myolicematin and th always present , one between C and D , close to D , which corresponds to the first band of the histohaematin spectrum , two very narrow and sharp , of which the second is darker than the first between D and E ; besides these there are one or two nearer violet , one covering E and h , the other before F , which are not always present .
The 2nd and 3rd bands correspond closely to similar bands in the histohaematin spectrum , in which they may appear joined to form one broad band .
The colour of the pigment giving this spectrum is yellow or reddish-yellow , but even in very pale muscles the bands can sometimes be seen , especially after the u's6 of a reducing agent .
Various attempts have been made to isolate myohaematin , but owing to the coloured constituent being joined to a proteid , it will not go into any of the usual solvents .
It has been proved by pressing out the plasma from frozen muscle that some of the myohaematin belongs to the plasma , but even after this treatment , its bands are seen better marked in the muscle than before .
It has also been got from blood-free muscle by digesting in pepsin solution , which , however , alters the pigment , as it no longer gives the original spectrum , but another which is remarkable , as it is imitated closely by a spectrum sometimes seen in insect .muscle without any treatment .
Obtained by this method , the pigment is of a yellow colour , and is only soluble in water .
From the changes which the histohaeinatins and myohaematin undergo with oxidising and reducing agents , and for reasons given in detail in the paper , I have come to the conclusion that these pigments are concerned in the internal respiration of the tissues and organs in which they are found .
Spectrum of the Adrenals.\#151 ; Another point of interest brought to light by these observations is the occurrence of haemochromogen in the medulla of the supra-renal glands of mammals ; thus in this situation in man , dog , cat , ox , sheep , pig , guinea-pig , rabbit , and rat , I have found haemochromogen , the bands of which are very dark ; and it would appear that this haemochromogen is partially removed by washing out the blood-vessels with salt solution .
Hence , and owing to the fact that elsewhere it is excretory , as in the bile , the haemochromogen of the adrenals appears to be excretory ; if so a downward metamorphosis of haemoglobin , and probably ( for reasons given in the paper ) of the histohaematins , is one of their functions .
Hence if by disease , or by artificial removal , this metabolism is prevented , the incompletely metabolised pigments circulate in the blood , and staining of skin and mucous membrane , as in Addison s disease , may take place .
In the urine of Addison 's disease such au imperfect metabolite occurs as I have already shown.* * " Journal of Physiology , " vol. ri , p. 37 .
252 On Myohcematin and the Histohcematins .
[ Nov. 26 , To give an idea of the connexion which exists between the histo-haematins and myohaematin , I have here added a few wave-length measurements .
These are given in greater detail in the complete paper , and the spectra have been mapped to the number of 70 in the accompanying charts .
No. 1 .
A histohsematin spectrum from the ovaries of a star-fish ( Uraster rubens ) ; \#151 ; 1st Band. .
... ... X613\#151 ; 593 2nd ... ... ... .
X569\#151 ; 560 3rd " ... ... . .
\556\#151 ; 548-5 No. 2 .
A histohaematin spectrum from the stomach-wall of a cat:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
X613\#151 ; 593 2nd " ... ... . .
X569\#151 ; 563 3rd " ... ... . .
X556\#151 ; 551 No. 3 .
A similar spectrum from the pancreas of a cat 1st Band ... ... X613\#151 ; 596 *5 2nd " ... ... . .
X569\#151 ; 563 3rd " ... ... . .
X556\#151 ; 548 '5 .
No. 4 .
A myohaematin spectrum from Hydrophilus:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... X613\#151 ; 593 2nd " ... ... ... \569\#151 ; 563 3rd " ... ... . .
X557\#151 ; 548-5 No. 5 .
A myohaematin spectrum from the heart of the lobster ( Homarus vulgaris ) : \#151 ; 1st Band ... ... X613\#151 ; 593 2nd " ________ X569\#151 ; 563 3rd " ... ... . .
X556\#151 ; 550 No. 6 .
A myohaematin spectrum from the heart of a cat \#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
X613\#151 ; 596 .
5 2nd ... ... ... .
X569\#151 ; 563 3rd " ... ... . .
X556\#151 ; 550 It may be added that it is very difficult to measure these bands , and allowing for this fact the agreement is very close , especially as all the measurements were made independently of each other .
It is also necessary to add that the above are what maybe called typical histohaematin spectra , as in some cases Bands 2 and 3 are joined to each other to form one band .

