]\gt ; Dispersion Equivalents .
Paramyosinogen , myosinogen , and myoglobulin are proteids of the lobulin class .
They are all completely precipitated by satul'ation with magnesium sulphate , or sodium chloride , or by dialysing out the salts from their solutions .
They can be separa , ted by fractional heat coagulntion , or by fractional saturation with neutral salts .
When muscle turns acid , as it does during rigor mortis , the pepsin which it contains is enabled to act , and at a suitable temperature albumoses and peptones are formed by a process of selfdigestion .
It is possible that the passing off of rigor mortis , which is apparently due to the reconwersion of myosin into myosinogen , may first stage in the self-digestion of muscle . .
" " Dispersion Equivalents .
Part I By J. H. GLADSTONE , Ph. D. , .
Received May 24 , 1887 .
The idea of refraction equivalents has become familiar to those who work on the borderland of optics and chemistry , and the value of that property as a means of investigating the chemical stracture of compounds is becoming more and more recognised .
There is a similar property , perhaps equally valuable for the same object , which has ttracted little attention hitherto ; I allude to the equivalent of dispersion .
During the last twelve months , however , I have collated dd measurements of the length of the spectrum , whether made by myself or by others , and have added many new determinations , and I now in a position to submit some of the results to the Society .
The history of the subject goes back to the first paper of Mr. Dale and myseIf upon the refraction of light , which we gave as one of the conclusions " " the length of the spectrum varies as the temperattlre increases In our second paper we came to the conclusion that " " there is no simple relation holding good for different liquids between the increase of volume and the decrease of dispersion by heat contrary to what we found to be the case with refracbion .
We adopted , i.e. , the difference between the refractive indices for the solar lines A and as the measure of dispersion .
This divided by the density gave the specific dispersion .
When , however , Landolt adopted the plan of calculating the " " refraction equivalent we applied the same method to what we termed dispersion equivalent , that is , " " the difference between and , or more simpIy * ' ' On the Influence of tule on the Refraction of Light 'Phil .
Trans 1858 , p. 8 .
" " On the Refraction , Dispersion , and Sensitiveness of Liquids 'Phil .
Trans 1863 , p. 323 .
stated that the dispersion equivalent of any substance is little by the manner in which it is combined with other bodies , and gave as the mean value of in the vinic group , but higher .
figures in the benzene and pyridine groups ; phosphorus equal to chlorine ; bromine ; and iodine .
In my subsequent paper in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' in which the refraction of forty-six elements were worked out , I remarked , " " the question of dispersion equivalents is also of interest ; the data the investigation of the matter are given in the Appendix But there the matter rested .
The paramount interest of the refraction equivalents in truth caused both the Continenlal observers and myself to neglect.the question of dispersion ; and with the exception of brief references it in papers on Refraction , nothing was published on the subject till last summer , when I applied the measurement of dispersion to elucidation of the cheJnical structure of the essential oils ; S and afterwards in a paper at I ventured to give values for fifteen elements .
Almost simultaneously with these appeared a paper by Bruhl , in which he endeavoured to eliminate the influence of dispersion from the refraction equivalents of highly refractive bodies .
In this he seems to establish the factthat for such bodies at least , the theoretical formula of Lorenz , ' gives more uniform results than the empirical formula ; but he draws as one of his conclusions , .
" " the dispersion exercised by different bodies stands in no relation which is as yet clearly recognisable and measurable either with the refraction exerted by them , or with the chemical nature of the substances In this and a following he gives additional proof of the worthlessness of Cauchy 's dispersion formula , or any of the suggested modifications of it , to eliminate the inflnence of dispersion .
It will be seen that Bruhl 's conclusion is inconsistent with the views I have recently expressed , and the determinations I had already * ' Brit. Assoc. Rep 1866 .
( Trans. Sec. , pp. 10 and 37 .
) ' On the Refraction Equivalents of the Elements 'Phil .
Trans 1869 , p. 27'Phil .
Mag , ' vol. 11 , 1881 , p. 59 .
'Brit .
Assoc. Rep 1881 ( Trans. p. .
'Chem .
Soc. Journ vol. 46 , 1884 , p. 258 .
S 'Chem .
Soc. Journ vol. 50 , lS86 , p. 609 .
'Archives Sci. Phys. Not vol. 16 , 1886 , p. 192 .
'Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 235 , 1886 , p. 1 .
' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 236 , 1886 , p. 233 .
1887 .
Dispersion Equivalents .
pnblished ; but while I am free to confess that there are many difficulties in the investigation of dispersion which have not been felt in dealing with refraction , I hold that the following conclusions are folly warranted by the data:\mdash ; 1st .
That dispersion , like refraction , is primarily a question of the tomic constitution of the body ; the general rule being that tho dispersion equivalent of a compound is the sum of the dispersion equivalents of its constituents .
2nd .
That the dispersion of a compound , like its refi.action , is modified by profound differences of constitution ; such as changes of atomicity . .
That the dispersion frequently reveals differences of constitution at present unrecognised by chemists , and not expressed by our rmulae .
In this paper my object will be to point out the uniformity that does exist , leaving apparent exceptions for future consideration .
Before entering upon an attempt to determine the dispersion equivalents of the different elementary substances , it may be well to consider the difficulty which occurred at the threshold of the enquiry , and another which appears to have deterred Bruhl from prosecuting his enquiries in the direction of dispersion .
The original experiments of Mr. Dale and myself led to the belief that the " " specific dispersion , , slightly diminishes with increase of temperature\ldquo ; ; but more accurate experiments made on the same specimens of bisulphide of carbon , benzene , brombenzene , and mint terpene , at the temperature of the observing room in the height of summer and depth of winter , have made me less confident of this nclusion .
The variations are certainly within the limits of experimental error .
The observations of Wullner both upon bisulphide of carbon and water , those of Baille and .
Willigen upon water , as well as those of Pisati and Paterno on benzene and cymene , show that there is little , if any , appreciable difference in the specific dispersion at different temperatures .
The general tendency of the observations on the ssventy substances which have been examined more or less carefully , appears to be that the small difference of specific refraction that exists at different temperatures is a little greater in the case of than in that of A. Bruhl gives three cases of isomeric or quasi-isomeric bodies .
He measures the specific dispersion by the of Cauchy 's formula divided by the density .
He shows that ciunamic alcohol , , and cinnamic aldehyde , , both of which he conceives to contain four pair of doubly-linked carbon-atoms , have a widely different specffic dispersion ; that allyl paracresolate and anethol , , having Sour pair of doubly-linked carbon-atoms , are also quite different in attributes to them ; in fact the extremely high dispersion in each case only tells the same tale as the extremely high refraction .
As to the two substanoes of the formula is open to question whether hexahydronaphthalin has only two pair of doubly-linked carbonatoms ; and the refraction equivalent calculated for each of the throws some doubt upon their purity .
Bruhl also com. pares met , hyldiphenylamine with cinnamic aldehyde , but the presencs nitrogen iu the first body , and the uncertainty as to the constitution of the second , render it unsafe to draw any conclusions from the comparison .
That the specific dispersion of isomeric or polymeric bodies is practically the same , except here the constitution is very different ( as in aniline and picoline ) , was shown in my papsr in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' six years ago ; and this must be set against the doubtful cases mentioned above .
The Elements .
There are but few of the elements of which the dispersivs energy can be directly determined ; but it so happens that two or three of these are among the most dispersive of bodies .
Phosphorus was determined by Mr. Dale and myself in a melted condition , and also by Damien both in that and the solid state .
Our observation gives ; those of Damien*work out at and respectively .
Sulphur.\mdash ; An old observation of mine on this body liquefied , gave for ; and recent observations from its solutions in bisnlphide of carbon .
give for .
These agree in indicating abont for Selenium.\mdash ; According to the observations of Sirks , the refractive indices for A and are respectively ; taking the specific gravity at , the dispersion equivalent of this element would be the extraordinary amount of for D\mdash ; A alone .
Eydrogen.\mdash ; Ketteler 's observations give dispersion equivalent of for the dffierence between the green line of thallium and the red line of lithium .
' Journal de iqne , 'Poggendorif , Annalen , ' vol. , 1871 , p. 429 .
' Poggendoffi , Annnlen , ' vol. 124 , 1865 , p. persion Enlents . .
405 Carbon .
ervations upon diamond give for the dispersion equivalent of the same range .
Iodine , in the state of vapour , or lved in bisulphide of carbon , gives a spectrum in which the order of the colours is abnormal .
Far more important results have been obtained from organic substances , by following a method similar to that which LandoIt adopted in his determination of the retraction equivalents of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen .
The materials for such an enquiry are very abundanl .
They consist of the observations published by Mr. Dale and myself in 1863 , and my more recent determinations published and unpublished , the very valuable lists of Landolt and Bruhl , numerous observations by Kanonnikofl , Nasini , and others .
Continental observels have usually adopted the lines , and of the hydrogen spectrum .
On comparing the refraction equivaIents of organic liquids of the fatty acid series which differ from one another by , or multiples of it , my best determinations lie between and aging about for each .
On treating in similar manner fifteen series of such bodies in Bruhl 's tables , some of which contain many terms , the dispersion equivalent for works out very uniformly at an average of .
This answers to for .
Armstrong 's cymhydrene , which is a saturated substance of the ] has a dispersion equivalent of , giving therefore for each .
Kanonnikoff 's determinations of tetraterpene and naphthene , also , give similar numbers .
It may therefore be assumed that the value of in saturated organic compounds lies between and , answering to the well known as the refraction equivalent of the same combination .
When , however , we examine unsaturated compounds in a manner , we find that the value rises to at least Eydrogen.\mdash ; While the value of may be fairly taken at , it is more difficult to say what portion of this is due to the carbon , and what to the hydrogen .
I have endeavoured to determine it , by deducting times from the paraffines by comparing the monatomic , diatomic , and triatomic alcohols , and by other similar means .
The results are somewhat irregular , as might indeed be expected from the neSS of the residual figure , but give a mean of per each hydrogen .
Carbon.\mdash ; If the in be taken at , it bllows that the carbon have a dispersion equivalent of about .
This answers to the refraction equivalent of It is well known , especially from the researches of Bruhl , .
that in unsaturated organic compouuds , an increase of refraction , for * ' Ueber das Dispersionsaquivalent von Diamant 'Wiedemann , Annalen , ' vol. 22 , 1884 , p. 424 .
It must remain for future consideration , whether there may not be .
an intermediate refraction equivalent , corresponding to the dispersion equivalent of On the appearance of Bruhl 's papers in 1880 , I ventured to suggest that there was a still higher refraction equivalent for carbon , in those cases in which it " " has all four of its units of atomicity satisfied by obher carbon-atoms , each of which has the higher value of or as in naphthalene or pyrene .
This visw has been , and is , the subject of controversy , but on turning to the dispersion equivalents of these bodies , they are found to be always enormously high , far higher than can be accounted for by the figures with which we have hitherto been dealing .
gen.\mdash ; It has been established by Bruhl , that in the case of aldehydes and ketones , oxygen has a refraction equivalent of .
As these have the general formula , and the dispersion of is known , it is very easy to determine the dispersion equivalent of the oxygen .
Various determinations of these bodies give a fairly uniform result ; for H\mdash ; A. In the case of the alcohols , the oxygen has a refraction equivalent of only .
Comparing the dispersion of the of diffel.ent atomicities in the published lists , the mean value for oxygen in this condition comes out at about .
Nevertheless , in the organic acids and compound ethers , the value of the two oxygens together seems rarely if ever to exceed Chlorine.\mdash ; Our lists also give us the means of determining the value of chlorine in organic substances of the fatty acid series .
As reckoned from such substances as chloroform , chloral , ethylene , and ethylidine ride , and bichloride of chlorethylene , the dispersion equivalent of this halogen appears to be 0.50 , though in the simple chlorides of the compound radicles it appears to be a little less .
Bromine.\mdash ; The dispersion equivalent of bromine varies in a similar way to that of .
As deduced from bromoform and the dibromides of the olefines , it is 1.22 ; but in the bromide of ethyl it is lower .
Iodine.\mdash ; The dispersion equivalent of iodine in -iodide of me'1887 .
] errion Equivalents .
thylene was found to be , and in iodoform in solutiou it seems be about the same ; while in the ordinary iodides of the compound radicles it is much less .
Nitrogen.\mdash ; Nitrogen appears to have a lower value in nitriles , oyanides , and sulphocyanides than in organic bases : but the figures obtained so far , for each condition of nitrogen , ars not accordant .
The lower value , however , probably does not exceed .
The values of in the fatty acid series , as deduced from substitution products of the alcohols , glycerine , mannite , \amp ; c. , are , however , fairly accordant , giving about Sulphur.\mdash ; For the determination of sulphur , we have the excellent observations of Wiedemann , * and Nasini ; the first on snlphur substitution oducts of carbonic ethers ; the second on many anic compounds .
There exist also two or three observations of my own .
It appears that the value of sulphur in mercaptans , sulphocyanides , and sulphides of ethyl , butyl , amyl , and allyl , is about ; answering to the refraction equivalent of But in bisulphide of carbon , where the refi.action equivalent of snlphur is , the dispersion equivalent is : and this is about the value which the element appears to have in ths isosulphocyanides , while the element itself dissolved in bisulphide of carbon , gives for the dispersion , which is equivalent to fully These results are collected together in the following table .
The dispersion equivalents here given must however not be taken for anything more than approximate .
* ' Journ. Prakt .
Chem vol. 114 , 1873 , p. 453 .
'Gazz .
Chim .
Ilul .
' vol. 13 , p. 296 .
tive energies being respectively and .
Again it will evident that the proportion between the refraction and dispersion not the same even in the case of analogous elements .
Thus , taking the three halogens , the ratio between the refraction for A and tb dispersion for H\mdash ; A for chlorine is about 100 to 5 , for bromine 100 , and for iodine 100 to 15 .
Netals in Salts.\mdash ; In 1869 , as already stated , I suggested that the same data from which the refraction equivalents of the metals had been determined , would be available also for their dispersion equivalents .
I have many observations in addition to the data then published ; and Kanonnikoff has been over part of the same measuring the and of the hydrogen spectrum .
Unfortunately , however , the errors of observation bear so : considerable a proportion to the whole amount observed , at any rate in dilute solutions , th$b we cannot look upon single determinations of the dispersion equiva .
lent of a salt as of much value .
Thus , even when great care has been taken in measurement , each index of refraction is liable to an error of , and as the error in determining A and may be in opposite directions , cannot be relied upon within Now among solutions of salts the specific dispersion rarely amounts to ; the error of observation may therefore be more than 1 per cent. , and if the salt should form only 5 per cent. of the solution , the error might exceed 20 per cent. Such solutions , therefore , are practically valueless for this purpose .
Yet it would be easy to publish a table of miscellaneous salts , the dispersion equivalents of which had been deduced from several fairly accordant observations on fairly strong solutions , or which have been corroborated from some independent source .
It has appeared preferable , however , to confine attention at present to the series of potassium and sodium salts , which are far the most complete and the most instrnctive .
It is evident at a glance , that the figures in the sodium columns invariably lower than those in the potassium columns , and that the difference is fairly uniform .
In regard to the refraction equivalent , it is about and in the dispersion equivalent it is about It follows , that if we can determine the value of potassium , that of sodium may be at once lated : and presumably the same process may be extended to all other metals that form soluble salts .
But it is not so easy to determine the value of potassium .
In *Previously determined at to my previous estimate to .
This is detel'mined mainly from the organic salts , and the nitrate , and cyanide .
I. did not draw any from the haloid salts , as the chlorine , bromine , and iodine in them appear to have somewhat higher values than what they have in organic compounds .
How are we to determine the corresponding equivalent of dispersion ?
From the haloid salts it would seem to be about , but it seems likely that the disturbing influence , whatever it be , which increases the refraction of the haloid saIts , would affect the dispersion .
The formate and acetate , and , promise more trustworthy resuIts , as we can subtract from their dispersion equivalents the numbers already determined for carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen .
This will give respectively and for the dispersion equivalent of K. If we view potassium hydrate , KHO , as water in which one hydrogen atom is replaced by poffisium , water being , we obtain the value of for K. From the nitrite , , by subtracting for , we obtain for K. In like manner from the cyauide , KCN , by deducting cyanogen , we get for K. From the carbonate , , by taking the probable value of the at , we get for each K. From the oxalate , by deducting we get for each K. These figures , varying from to , are too uncertain , and too * This is estimated from measurements of , and , and is somewhat open to doubt , as there seems to be somethihg abnormal in the spectrum .
XXL ' ' On the Rate at which icity leaks through Liquidm which are Bad Conductors of \ldquo ; By J. THOIISON , , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , and Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics in th University of Cambridge , and H. F. NEWALL , Assistant Demonstrator in Physics , idge .
May 26 , 1887 .
The experiments here described were undertaken to test the rate at which elsctricity leaks through a liquid which conductl electricity badly , does or does not follow Ohm 's law .
The method used is described Iater ou ; it consists in establishing by a battery a difference of potential of about 100 volts between the plates of a condenser , in which the dielectric is ths faulty insulator to be experimented on , then disconnecting the battery , and measuring with an electrometer the rate at which the difference of potential dies away .
Let and be the differences of potential at the beginning and end of an interval , and let If be the capacity of the condenser , the quantity of electricity which has leaked away in the time , then ;

