]\gt ; Mr. W. Brennan [ Dec. 11 , From these forms for and a variety of others may be obtained , as well as expressions in the form of integrals for spherical hal'monics of the second kind .
Corresponding forms may also be established for oblate spheroids .
7 .
The expansion of he reciprocal of the distance between two points plays an inlportant part in the application of these investigations .
It has therefore been found in ellipsoidal harmonics and thence , by reduction , in harmonics of the spheroid , circular cylinder , and aboloid of revoIution , and its application has beeu briefly illustrated in finding the general term in the expansion of the potential due to the magnetism induced in an ellipsoid placed in any field of force , and in finding the electrical capacities of surfaces inverted from ellipsoids .
In the same connexion , I have also found the sxpansion for the potential due to a thin shell bounded by similar and similarly situated ellipsoids , the density of which varies inversely as the cube of the distance from a fixed point .
8 .
In the last part of the paper I have shown how to prove what Heine terms\ldquo ; addition theorems\ldquo ; in the case of spheroidal harmonics , and thence , by reduction , in the case of Bessel 's unctions .
II .
Observations of the Sun and Sky By WILLIAM BRENNAND .
Communicated by C. B. CLARKE , F.B.S. Received October 30 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The paper begins with a short account of the various papers communicated by Sir H. Roscoe , and published in the Transactions of the Royal Society .
2 .
My observations were made at Dacca , East Bengal , in 1861-66 , repeated at Milverton , in Somersetshire , during the last two years .
My first experiments were directed to ascertaining the action of the sun on sensitised paper exposed at right angles to the solar rays for different altitudes of the sun , and largely to ascertaining the laws of distribution of the actinic power in the sky .
I take no observations except when the sky is quite clear .
3 .
The method of measurement I adopted is the darkening produced in sensitised paper .
I cut strips from one uniform sheet of ordinary photographic paper .
My observations being relative , 1 obtain the same results tios ) with any paper .
1 compare ultimately the effects of the sun and of a candle on this same paper .
4 .
I assume that , in burning a stearine candle , the chemical action is proportional to the material consumed ; I have taken as my unib ( i ) 1890 .
] Photometric Observations of the Sun and Sky .
of measure of chemical action the darkening produced at a distance of 1 inch from the wick of the candle when 100 grains were consumed , which in the candle I used in India occupied about fortyseven minutes .
My observations , being almost entirely relative , are independent of these assumptions , which affect hardly any of my results except comparisons with the absolute unit measures of Sir H. Roscoe .
5 .
Explains the method by which I obtain a standard strip for the candle unit .
7 .
Describes the water motion ometer , with which observations of the action of sun and sky were made .
8 .
Shows how it may be proved expel.imentally that the intensity of tlJe action of light emanating from a physical point varies inversely as the square of the distance from the origin .
9 .
For obtaining the effects of the sun and sky , I have always experimented mainly by exposing the paper at right angles to sun 's .
Sir H. Roscoe , on the other hand , exposes his paper on a horizontal plane .
Theoretic considerations have led me to another method of observation ( with the " " octant\ldquo ; actinometer below ) which gives directly the measure of the effect really desired .
A table is given of the first observations I made , which afterwards led to the formation of Table ( see next page ) .
11 .
The method of ) serving the action of the sun alone .
12 .
Observations taken near the horizon not to be depended upon .
13 .
Refers to the construcbion of Table , and the extension of the table for altitudes of the sun beyond those observed .
14 .
Shows how the numbers of the table were obtained , by taking the inverse of the times required at each altitude for producing the darkening of the candle unit .
17 .
I found the action of the sun , as far as my expel.iments went , the same at all hours of the day and at all seasons of the year .
And in Somersetshire I got exactly the same chemical action of the snn as at Dacca .
18 .
Various observations had led me to suspect that the chemical actlo1l of the sky at the same moment was diverse in different parts of it .
To investigate this suspicion , I designed an instrument which I call the ailleuse Actinometer ( fig. 2 ) .
I mount a number of similar cylindrical tubes in one plane in a semicircle , to the centre of which the axis of each tube is directed : one extremity of each tube lies in the circumference of the circle ; the other extremities lie on a concentric circle of about one-halfthe radius .
In the circumference of this smaller circle is a semicircular series of holes , against which a semicircular block carrying the sensitised paper is pressed by a screw .
Each cylinder cuts out of the sky a circle of angular diameter .
One of the tubes near its top carries a small plate of wood Mr. W. Brennand .
[ Dec. 11 , Table B. Chemical Action of Sun and 33 . . .
34 . . .
35 . . .
36 . . .
37 . . .
38 . . .
39 . .
' 42 . . .
43 . .
5 44 . .
2 46. .
50 . .
55 . . .
60 . .
65 . .
70 . .
75 . .
80 . .
85 . .
90 . .
N.B.\mdash ; For sun altitudes to , the figures are not the result of direct observations ; for sun altitudes to , the figures are less certain by reason of thin haze often present .
on which stands a style ] to the tube , by means of which this particular tube can be brought in a line with the sun .
By another motion the plane of the tubes can be adjusted to the plane of symmetry ( or elsewhere ) .
[ A vertical plane through the sun at any time divides the visible sky into two exactly similar portions .
I call this the plane of symmetry .
] 19 .
The observations ( Table C ) were taken December , 1864 , at Dacca ( among other similar observations taken in the same cold 1890 .
] Photometric Observations of the Sun a Sky .
Table C. ( Sun 's Altitnde Distance oated v in the plane of symmetry .
The barrels of the mitrailleuse were fixed apart , the altitude of the sun being I give the table as an early observation that shows well that there is a point of minimum intensity at from the sun .
It also :ppears that if be the intensity for the altitude of the sun , then ths intensity of the sky at a point from the sun is given ( roughly only according to this table ) by the formula This observation was made in the plane of symmetry : it turns out chat the value , , gives the intensity very accurately , for any point , in any other great circle , whose distance the sum is measured on that circle .
20 .
For any altitude of the sun , the chemical action of the sky is a minimum at all points in a great circle , the plane of lvhich is at right angles to the line joining its centre to the sun .
[ This plane I call the plane of minimum intensity ] As the whole of the mathematical developments of this paper founded upon the law that at any point of the sky whose distance is from the sun the intensity Mr. W. Brenmand .
[ Dec. 11 , I have been careful to verify it by numerous observations both at Dacca and in Somersetshire , and to vary the observations in every way I could devise .
Thus the mitrailleuse has been placed in the plane of minimum intensity .
In this case all the barrels give the same reading for points not too near the horizon .
Next the mitrailleuse was placed in planes of great circles through the sun at various angles with the plane of symmetry , by tuming it round the line joining one of its tubes with the sun the observed chemical actions well with Next by means of stops I made the aperture of each barrel of the mitrailleuse to be where is the distance of the axis of the barrel from the sun ; this mitrailleuse being exposed , the barrel being directed to the sun , the circular darkened spots were found to be very accnrately of the same depth .
Further , 1 calculated the of exposure for ( particular ) mitrailleuse with barrels of uniform aperture , which ought , on the law , to give a uniform tint .
I exposed this mitrailleuse for these calculated times , first in the plane of symmetry , afterwards in a plane inclined to it at ; the results agreed closely with my anticipation , and show to be a very good approximation .
22 .
I have therefore made full use of the expression for the chemical action of the light of the sky in a circle from the sun ( whose altitude is ) .
First , in the following proposition : 24 .
Having given the chemical action in the circle of minimum intensity , to calculate the total chemical action of the sky on a plane exposed at right angles to the sun .
N.B. is a constant for this calculation , but it varies with the altitude of the sun .
Let the figure represent a projection on the plane of symmetry , being the sun , the zenith , HRYH ' the horizon , AYX the plane of minimnm intensity , SH the sun 's altitude , the angular distance of the sun from .
Then the total action of sky throughout the gore HYZSH on sensitised paper at in the plane perpendicular to os ( K. ) The expression cannot integrated ; but , by using a formula of reduction in series , it gives\mdash ; 890 .
] Photometric Observations of the Sun and Sky .
Total intensity of the gore on the paper at which is the formula I have used in numerical computations .
It is the numerical value in the column " " Sky alone\ldquo ; in Table which is thus brought into direct verification with observed by the mitrailleuse .
Arts .
25\mdash ; 29 show that the integral ( K ) taken for the whole visible hemisphere is . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( Q ) .
This is the hole chemical action of the hemisphere resolved on the horizontal plane , which was one of the quantities observed by Sir H. Roscoe .
30 .
Deals with any suspicion that may arise that the law of cosecants may have been umed , the fact being that the law was arrived at , by experiment simply , more than twenty-two years ago , \amp ; c. 31 .
Apply ; the equation ( y ) to determine for the altitudes given by Sir H. Roscoe in his table showing the total chemical action of diffuse daylight ( i.e. , of the whole sky , the sun being stopped off ) on horlzontally exposed paper ( ' Phil. Trans 1870 , p. 314 ) .
These values are tabulated with corresponding values of calculated by formula in ( 24 ) from the Dacca Table , forming together Table E. 32 .
As a first approximation from Table , it lvould appear that Sir H. Roscoe 's unit of chemical action is of the Dacca candle unit Photometric Observutions of the Sun and Sky .
[ Dec. 11 , Table E. Twihght .
33 .
The resultant chemical action of the sky on a horizontally exposed piece of paper , the sun 's altitude being , is found This vanishes when i. e. , when Or This gives an absolute value for twilight , supposing daylight to cease when the diffused daylight of Roscoe entirely vanishes .
The extreme limit at which twilight has been certainly observed is when the sun is below the horizon ; ab which time the formula would show the chemical action of diffuse daylight to be only of what it was just after sunset .
In other words , the formuJa gives a very good agreement with the observed duration of twilight .
34 .
Taking as -ordinate planes the plane of symmetry , the plane of minimum intensity , and the plane through the sun at right angles these ( which last I call the of the sun 's altitude ) , it is found ( as a corollary in Article 34 ) that [ U ] , [ V ] , [ W ] , representing the total chemical effect of the sky , resolved on these -ordinate planes .
This suggested the of the octant actinometer , which 1890 .
] On the Validity of Person 's Absolute Zero .
requires only a quarter of the visible sky to be clear for observation , and gives the value of directly , requiring no calcnlation or reduction .
It possesses , moreover , the great advantage of not taking in the low band of sky near the horizon , and thus avoiding a principal element of uncertainty in other observations , 35 .
The octant actinometer consists of three quadrantal planes , MOS , MOI , and IOS , joined at their edges so as to form a hollow trihedral , and mounted so that one of the edges , OS , can be brought to point to the ; the plane MOI will then coincide with the plane of minimum intensity .
The instl .
meant has another adjustment , by which it can turn round OS as an axis , and if one of the planes MOS , IOS be brought to coincide with the plane of symmetry , the other will coincide with the plane of the sun 's altitude .
I take a small square of sensitised paper , and cut it along ; then slipping the part COB under AOC , so that coincides at , it forms rectangular trihedral of paper .
This is placed in a snaall exposure trlhedral of cardboard , and covered by a thin metal trihedral in the trihedral of the octant ( I make several of these trihedrals of sensitised paper , so as in the field to take quickly a series of observations ; the trihedral of paper is , of course , carefully covered till the instrument is in adjustment ) ; exposed to the action of the sky for ( say ) thirty seconds , the readings on the planes MOS and IOS will be each , and that on the plane MOI will be 30 .
36 .
Gives in Table the observations with the octant in August last .
:37 .
Discussion regarding the most useful method of resolution of the sky and sun .
III .
" " Determinations of the Heat Capacity and Heat of Fusion of some Substances to test the Validity of Person 's Absolute Zero By SPENCER IFREVILLE PICKERING , M.A. , F.R.S. Received November 6 , 1890 .
The relations existing between the heat of fusion of a substance and its heat capacity in the liquid and solid condition were demonstrated by Person , in 1847 ( ' Ann. Chim .
Phys. ' ( 3 ) , , p. 315 ) .
He showed that the heat of fusion must diminish as the temperature

