388 Mr. H. G. Plimmer .
Effects 'produced on Rats [ Dec. j " Note on the Effects produced on Rats by the Trypanosomata ol Gambia Fever and Sleeping Sickness .
" By H. G. Plimmet : F.L.S. Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received December 1 , 1904 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1905 .
( From the Laboratories of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine .
) The following observations-are of interest in connection with the view that Gambia Fever may be the early stage of the disease which ends as Sleeping Sickness , which is held by some : and with the question of the causal relationship of the Trypanosoma found in Sleeping Sickness to the disease .
The Trypanosomata used in the experiments mentioned below were given to me by Col. Bruce , F.R.S. ; that of Gambia Fever having been taken from a monkey inoculated in Africa from a native boy suffering from Gambia Fever , and that of Sleeping Sickness from a monkey inoculated in Africa from a case of this disease .
Gambia Fever .
Fourteen rats were inoculated with the Trypanosoma of Gambia Fever at intervals between December 11 , 1903 , when I received the first rat from Col. Bruce , and August 24 , 1904 , all of which are dead .
In each case the Trypanosomata were present in the blood , the first appearance of them there being about four weeks after inoculation : and towards the end of the disease they were present in large numbers .
The average time between inoculation and death was two months and twelve days .
In each case the spleen was enormously enlarged ; there was considerable hyperplasia of the follicles , and the pulp was congested in varying degrees .
There was also marked hyperplasia of the lymphatic glands , especially of those of the mesenteric and mediastinal areas .
There was congestion of the liver , with cloudy swelling of its epithelium , and the same condition in a lesser degree was found in the kidney .
In no case was there any paralysis , or any nervous symptoms , except that just before death the animals became heavy and apathetic .
Post mortem the capillaries of the brain contained large numbers of the organisms .
Sleeping Sickness .
Three rats were inoculated on December 1 , 1903 , from a monkey which had been brought home by Col. Bruce from Africa after inoculation with cerebro-spinal fluid from a case of Sleeping Sickness .
At no time were any Trypanosomata found in the blood of these rats , even after it had been centrifugalised post mortem .
One rat became 1.904 .
] the Trypanosomata of Q-amhia , etc. 389 r baralysed in both hind legs on May 12 , 1904 , and died on May 23 ; the second became paralysed similarly on August 2 , and died on August 30 ; and the third became paralysed on August 28 , and died On September 8 .
On post mortem examination no naked-eye lesions of .my organ were found , and the spleens were not enlarged .
The blood was citrated and centrifugalfsed , and the organs were mashed and washed with normal salt solution and centrifugalised , but in no case were any Trypanosomata found .
Portions of the extracts of liver , spleen , and spinal cord were injected into other rats , but up to the present these show no sign of illness .
In the mashed spinal cord of each of these rats the characteristic Trypanosomata were found in ismall numbers , but none were found in the brains which were examined ; in the same way .
The three rats were of the same kind , black and white ; and the youngest of the three died first and the eldest last .
( 1 ) These experiments go to show that the two diseases\#151 ; Gambia Fever and Sleeping Sickness\#151 ; from which the organisms were obtained , are distinct ; the duration of the diseases , the symptoms , and the post mortem appearances being quite different .
It is evident that these two organisms are quite separate and distinct , as their different effects on similar animals indicates ; moreover , they are also morphologically distinct when grown in similar animals , that of Gambia Fever being longer , generally larger , and more easily stainable than the stumpy , large-vacuoled , badly staining Trypanosoma of Sleeping Sickness .
The fact of the clinical observation that Gambia Fever not infrequently appears to terminate with all the symptoms of Sleeping Sickness may quite possibly be explained by a double infection .
For , in both rats and monkeys the one Trypanosoma does not interfere with the other , but the more active organism\#151 ; that of Gambia Fever in the cases of rats and monkeys\#151 ; kills in about the same time , whether inoculated before , with , or after that of Sleeping Sickness .
( 2 ) There can be no question , from the above experiments , of the susceptibility of the rat to the Trypanosoma of Sleeping Sickness .
( 3 ) These experiments show that the inoculation of the Trypanosoma of Sleeping Sickness into rats gives rise to no obvious symptoms for many months , nor are Trypanosomata discoverable in the blood by microscopic examination .
But , after a period of from six to nine months paraplegia occurs , leading to the death of the animal ; and post mortem the organisms are found only in the spinal cord .
The organisms are i thus in rats , as sometimes in man , entirely confined to the nervous system ; j whereas in monkeys they are , in my experience , always generalised at : some period of the disease .
Dr. A. W. Campbell .
[ j)ec 3 Addendum , Jammy 19 , 1905.\#151 ; The three rats inoculated on August 30 , 1904 , with extract of spinal cord have become paraplegic : one on December 14 , 1904 , one on January 2 , 1905 , and the third on January 11 , 1905 .
No Trypanosomata have been seen in the blood of these animals , and , apart from paralysis of the hind limbs , they show no signs of ill health .
The spinal cord shows amoeboid forms of the Trypanosomata in its tissue , and a considerable cellular exudation around the vessels ; this lesion Dr. Mott found to be characteristic of cases of human Sleeping Sickness , and it is not found in monkeys , which have been the animals principally used in experimental work on this disease .
" Further Histological Studies on the Localisation of Cerebral Function.\#151 ; The Brains of Felis , Canis , and Sus compared with that of HomoBy Alfred Walter Campbell , M.D. Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. Received December 3,1904 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1905 .
( Abstract .
) The present study is founded on an exhaustive examination of the cerebral cortex of Felis domesticus , Canis familiaris , and Sus , conducted on lines similar to those followed in the original work .
A recurrence in the lower mammal of distinctive types of cortex , fllrin to those recognised in the human brain , has allowed a subdivision of the surface into the following areas :\#151 ; Crucial or motor ; postcrucial or sensory ; parietal ; visual ; ecto-sylvian ; limbic ; rhinic ; extrarhinic ; frontal .
By a study of the distribution of these areas many functional analogies and structural homologies , previously unknown or misinterpreted , are made clear .
Crucial or Motor Area.\#151 ; Giant cells of Betz characterise the motor cortex , but these elements appear not to be so highly specialised in Sus as in Felis and Canis .
Such cells reside in what we may call the cruciate zone , and it is maintained that this field is functionally and morphologically akin to the motor area , as defined by Professor^ Sherrington and Griinbaum in the anthropoid ape , and by myself in man .
It is held that a small indentation , called the " compensatory ansate " sulcus , and the sulcus coronalis are respectively interchangeable with the upper and lower constituents of the primate fissure of Rolando , chiefly because they , like the fissure of Rolando , limit the * This paper is an addendum to the work presented to the Royal Society in November , 1903 ( see 'Proceedings , ' vol. p. 488 ) .
The complete work will be published shortly in full by the Cambridge University Press , by aid of a subsidy from the Royal Society .

