1889 .
] Relation of Physiological Action to Atomic Weight .
21 December 12 , 1889 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Barfc .
, President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Relation of Physiological Action to Atomic Weight .
" By Miss H. J. Johnstone , University College , Dundee , and Those .
Carnelley , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Sir Henry Roscoe , F.R.S. Received October 5 , 1889 .
11 .
" An Experimental Investigation into the Arrangement of the Excitable Fibres of the Internal Capsule of the Bonnet Monkey ( Macacus sinicus ) .
" By Charles E. Beevor , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , and Victor Horsley , B.S. , F.R.S. ( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution ) .
Received December 4 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) After a historical introduction the authors proceed to describe the method of investigation , which was conducted as follows .
The animal being narcotised with ether , the internal capsule was exposed by a horizontal section through the hemisphere .
By means of compasses the outlines of the basal ganglia and capsule were accurately transferred to paper ruled with squares of 1 millimetre side , so that a projection of the capsule was thus obtained , divided into bundles of 1 millimetre square area .
Each of these squares of fibres was then excited by a minimal stimulus , the same being an induced or secondary interrupted current .
The movements were recorded and the capsule photographed .
In all 45 experiments were performed , and they are arranged in eight groups , representing eight successive levels ( .
, from the centrum ovale to the crus ) at which the capsule was investigated .
Before the results are described in detail a full account is given of previous investigations , experimental , clinical , and anatomical , on the arrangement of the internal capsule .
22 Effect of the Spectrum on Haloid Salts of Silver .
[ Dec. 12 , The anatomy of the part and the relation of the fibres to the basal ganglia are then discussed , and a full description given of each of the groups examined .
The general results are next given at length , of which the following is a resume .
Firstly , the rare occurrence of bilateral movement is discussed , and the meaning of the phenomenon defined .
Secondly , the lateral arrangement and juxtaposition of the fibres are considered .
Thirdly , the antero-posterior order in which the fibres for the movements of the different segments are placed is described , and that order found to be practically identical with that observed on the cortex , viz. , from before back .
Movements of eyes .
" head .
, , tongue .
" mouth , " upper limb ( shoulder preceding thumb ) .
" trunk .
" lower limb ( hip preceding toes ) .
The character or nature of these movements is set out in a table giving the average localisation of each segment .
Speaking generally , it may be said that the movements are arranged in the same way as has already been shown by the authors to exist in the cortex ( vide pievious papers in ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1887 , 1888 ) , viz. , that the representation of extension is situated in front of that of flexion for the segments of the upper limb , while for the toes flexion is obtained , as in the cortex , in front of extension .
Numerous tables and diagrams are appended , showing the extent of appropriation of fibres for each movement .
III .
" On the Effect of the Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of Silver .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , C.B. , R.E. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and G. S. Edwards , C.E. Received November 26 1889 .
[ Publication deferred .
]

