An Account of the Heat of July , 1825 ; together with some Remarks upon sensible Cold .
By W. Heberden , M.D. F.R.S. Read January 12 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 69 .
] The temperatures which Dr. Heberden wishes to record in this paper , are those observed on the 15th , 17th , 18th , and 19th of last July , and were respectively 920 , 90 ?
, 960 , and 95 ? .
On the 15th , the wind was S.W. , on the other days it blew from the East .
The thermometer employed was sensible and accurately graduated , and was suspended upon a lawn , about 5 ' feet from the ground ; on the first day , in the shade of a laburnum tree , and afterwards from an external branch of a large Portugal laurel ; always distinct from any building ; exposed to the full influence of the wind , and at the same time sheltered from the actual rays of the sun , and from substances heated by them .
The author adds , that the only instance on record of a corresponding elevation of atmospheric temperature was in July , 1808 ; on the 13th of which month , it appears from the Royal Society 's register , the thermometer rose to 930 ?
5 , and Mr. Cavendish 's thermometer , at Clapham , to 96 ? .
By way of comparison , Dr. Heberden observes , upon the authority of the late Dr. Hunter , that in the hottest season , and during the hottest part of the day , the range of the thermometer , at Kingston , in Jamaica , is from 85 ?
to 90 ? .
To these remarks , Dr. Heberden adds some observations on the imperfection of the thermometer , as a measure of the degree of cold perceptible to the human body in its ordinary exposure to the atmosphere , and which depends upon the rapidity with which its own heat is carried off by the conducting power and currents of the atmosphere .
To estimate this insensible cold , the author raised the thermometer to 1200 , and then carried it into the open air .
As soon as the mercury had fallen to 100 ?
, the rate of its further descent , during every 10 " , was noted for half a minute , in different states of the atmosphere in regard to wind and moisture .
These experiments , which are given in the form of tables , show the powerful effect of wind in increasing the rate of cooling , and consequently of exciting the sensation of cold in the human body , independent of any actual low temperature of the atmosphere .

