]\gt ; Interference Bands formed by Rays at Small Angles .
187 rate of growth of timber trees ; and during the last summer I have made a few trials of such measurements , using an adaptation of an apparatus previously designed for observing the extension of cracks in buildings .
In both trees and building cracks the rate of extension is very small , though much greater in the former than the latter .
The increase in diameter of ordinary timber trees , as shown by the distance between the annual rings , varies largely with the species and the surrounding conditions , from less than up to inch per year , or say from to ( or more ) inches increase of girth .
If this growth were continuous and uniformly spread over the year , the increase per hour would be between and inch .
Cracks in old buildings , on the other haud , may spread perhaps only at the rate of an inch in 1000 years or ( or one ten-millionth of an inch ) per hour .
With a good microscope there is no great difficulty in measuring lengths of inch , so that , as far as magnitudes are concerned , the hourly growth of trees could be quite well determined in this way ; but to apply the necessary magnifying power in the position required would in most cases be inconvenient .
If , in place of ordinary optical magnification , interference methods are employed , so that the change in the girth of the tree is measured in terms of wave-lengths , much simpler apparatus will suffice ; for in this case the change of the position of interference bands which are visible without , or with very little , magnification takes the place of micrometer measures made with highpower objectives .
There are many ways of producing suitable interference bands , but I will only mention the two which I have actually used .
If two flat glass plates , A and , one of which ( say B ) has a straight edge , are superposed , so that the straight edge of rests on the surface of , and if the surfaces of A and are slightly inclined to one another , and are viewed by reflected monochromatic light incident normally or nearly so , the field will appear covered with parallel and equidis and dark bands , parallel to the edge of separated by intervals which are directly proportional to the wave-length of the , and inversely as the angle between bhe plates .
If the angle is altered so that the band ( say ) occupies the place formerly held by the band , the distance between the plates at that place is altered by half a wave-length ( in the case of soda light about the hundred-thousandth of an inch ) .
With suitable means the shift of one-tenth of a band can be recognised , corresponding to an alteration of distance between the plates of a millionth of an inch .
This is the plaIl suitable for detecting the extension of cracks .
188 Mr. A. Mallock .
Growth of For the much more rapid growth of an arrangement which demands a great same amount of shift in the bands , and thi the bands by light having a grazing instea purpose the plate A is replaced by a rig formed are not equidistant aIid have sever here particularised .
The theory is given What is of importance for the present between A and necessary to shift one ban by its neighbour is more than ten times as Iight is normal .
The arrangement for using these bands of trees is shown in figs. 1 and 2 .
At th about 5 feet above the ground ) a tape of ' the roughnesses of the bark having been Interference Bands formed by Small Angles .
189 The tape is passed over the rockers , as in fig. and is kept in constant tension by the spiral springs , one of which is hooked on to a ring at the end of the tape , and the other to an adjustable clamp , ripping the tape at an appropriate place .
To each rocker an arm is attached , carrying a cylindrical stud , .
Thus any expansion or contraction the girth of the tree causes the distance between the studs to increase or diminish , the friction between the tape and rockers under the tension of the springs being quite sufficient to prevent slipping .
The optical part of the apparatus ( figs. 2 and 3 ) freely from an FIG. 2 .
arm , projecting from the stout plate on which the rockers are mounted .
The plate itself is attached to the tree trunk by screws .
is a -angled glass prism mounted on a support , capable of turning about the axis in the outer frame , and the angular position of the prism , wir , reference to , can be adjusted by the micrometer screw G. is a flat glass plate , blacked on the hind surface , and having a straight edge at F. The plate * In fig. 2 the tape is replaced by a thread , so that the rockers may not be hidden from view .
VOL. XC.\mdash ; B. Interference Bands by Rays at Angles .
191 growth was different in each case , but always greater in the early part of the day than later .
In fact , actual contraction was noticed on several occasions between noon and .
This showed that there was a considerable daily component involved , but its magnitude could not be determined with any From J whilestayinginthecountry , I made constant observations day and night on four trees , devoting a week or ten days to each .
The records so obtained are reproduced in Diagrams together with the temperature of the air .
It will be noticed that the increase of girth and the temperature curve are rather closely related , the growth being most rapid when the temperature is lowest , or nearly so .
Also that rain has a great effect , any shower followed by increase of girth .
A probable explanation of these facts may be found in the variable rate of evaporation from the leaves , combined with a nearly constant flow of sap into the roots .
Presumably , the mean line through the diagram of girth indicates the rate of formation of new wood , the divergence from the mean representing the degree of turgescence in the bark and ) ' immediately underlying it .
The effect of rain may be partly mechanical , that is , it may act by merely wetting the bark and thus causing it to swell ; at any rate , this may happen in the case of heavy rain , but it must also act by checking evaporation from the leaves , and in the case of light showers this is probably the most efficient factor .
I regret that I had no means of measuring the humidity of the air .
In any future trials this should be observed .
The daily component , as well as the average growth , ries largely in the different trees , and far more extended observations would be required before any generalisation should be attempted .
The method of measurement , however , is simple and satisfactory , and the results , as far as they , seem sufficiently interesting to warrant their publication .
S @ Mr. A. Mallock .
Growth of .
Trees , with a Note on 194 Mr. A. Mallock Growth of Trees , cvith a Note or / Interference rmed by Rays at Angles .
195 NOTE ON INTERFERENCE BANDS FORMED BY BAYS MAKING SMALL ANGLES W1TH THE REFLECTING SURFACE .
When hght falls very obliquely on flat superposed plates separated by a small interval , no interference bands can be distinguished , owing to the complete reflection which takes place at the first surface and overpowers the weak rays penetrating to , and reflected from , the surfaces where the interference occurs .
If , however , a prism is substituted for the upper plate , the interference bands , due to rays whose path in the air space 196 Mr. A. Mallock .
Growth of between the surfaces makes a small angle be easily observed .
When the angle of emergence ( i ) from , and the angle ( r ) at which the therefore , nearly , a small in If , so that is the angle whi the face of the prism , and if is the diffe total internal reflection , then for Thus , when .
This positions and appearance of the interference Below the face of the prism ( fig. 5 ) let th the face at , and inclined to it at a ver origin , and the face of the prism as con distance between the two surfaces at is FIG. 6 .
If a ray within the prism strikes the with the axis of , the transmitted part ma being reflected from the lower plate , again hardly ring from ( on account of the condition to interfere with the ray reflecte point of entry .
The optical lengths of the Interference Bands formed by at Angles .
197 respectively in air , and in glass .
The difference in their length is easily shown to be equal to Let the surfaces be viewed from a point at a distance from X ; then , noting that OEB , and writing for , it will be found that , and that , consequently , the relative retardation of the interfering rays is .
Taking into account the half-wave-length change of phase at the internal reflection at , the bands are bright or dark , according as the retardation is or S(2nl ) Hence for the bright bands for the dark bands so that their spacing is not uniform .
These bands differ in several other ways from those formed by normal , or nearly normal , incidence .
The latter practically have an objective existence at the surfaces of interference , and can be viewed by a telescope adjusted to focus an object at the distance of the plate from the observer , the reason being that the size and position of the bands change only slowly with the angle of incidence .
In the case at present under consideration this condition does not hold .
As Stokes*puts " " When the angle of incidence becomes nearly equal to that of tota ] reflection , a small change of obliquity produces a great chance in the order of the ring to which the reflected ray belongs , and therefore the rings are indistinct to an eye adapted to distinct vision of the surface of the glass .
They are also indistinct , for the same reason as before , if the eye be adapted to distinct vision of distant objects .
To see distinctly the rings in the neighbourhood of the angle of total internal reflection .
the author used a piece of blackened paper , in which a small hole was pierced with the point of a needle .
Stokes is here speaking of Newton 's rings .
In the case of bands between flat plates , the aperture of the pupil need not be limited , if the observation be made at a distance of some feet .
Another peculiarity of these bands may be mentioned .
When formed by white light , the bands are , of course , coloured .
For those distant from the line of total reflection the blue is on the inside , i.e. , nearest to that lin , but , for the band close to the line , the blue is on the outside .
Between them occurs a band which appears achromatic .
The explanation is * Stokes , ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 359 , from ' B.A. Report , ' 1850 .
' On the Efficiency of Muscular Work .
and one only , which makes , viz. , when less than the angle of total reflection for the yellow and 24 ' less than for the blue ) .
At the position so defined there will be a band with borders only faintly coloured .
On either side of this baIxl.the order in which the colours appear will be reversed .
On the Efficiency of Work .
By M. GREENWOOD , Captain R.A.M.C. ( T.F. ) , Lister Institute Preventive Medicine .
( Communicated by Prof. Leonard Hill , F.RS .
Received January 18 , 1918 .
) In a paper communicated to the Royal Society in 1913 , * Prof. J. S. Macdonald published a series of observations upon the heat production of persons performing certain known ' quantities of work upon a bicycle ergometer .
In that paper , and again in a more recent publication , Prof. onald has outlined certain methods of interpreting his results , which are of much impol.tance ; these I shall discuss in the latter half of this communication , but , before doing so , it will be interesting to examine some purely numerical questions to which Macdonald 's paper gave rise .
In a note on Macdonald 's earlier paper , Messrs. Glazebrook and have published a formula descriptive of Macdonald 's numerical results .
This formula is , ( 1 ) where production in calories , body mass in kilogrammes , work equivalent in calories , , and are constants .
The values of the constants , which were obtained by a graphical process led in the particular case to the equation , ( 2 ) and this equation was found to provide values in very fair agreement with the observed results .
It will be noticed that , when the body weight iS constant , the heat production ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 87 , p. 96 ( 1914 ) .
ibid. , vol. 89 , p. 394 1917 ) .
Ibid. , vol. 87 , p. 311 ( 1914 ) .

