I. " On Skew Surfaces , otherwise Scrolls .
" By A. CAYLEY , F.R.S. Received February 3 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) It may be convenient to mention at the outset that in the paper " On the Theory of Skew Surfaces , " Camb .
and Dubl .
Math. Journ. vol. vi .
pp. 171-173 ( 1852 ) , I pointed out that upon any skew surface of the order n there is a singular ( or nodal ) curve meeting each generating line in ( n-2 ) points , and that the class of the circumscribed cone , or what is the same thing , the class of the surface , is equal to the order n of the surface .
In the paper " On a Class of Ruled Surfaces , " Camb .
and Dubl .
Math. Journ. vol. viii .
pp. 45,46 , ( 1853 ) , Dr. Salmon considered the surface generated by a line which meets three curves of the orders m , n , p respectively : such surface is there shown to be of the order =2mnp ; and it is noticed that there are upon it a certain number of double right lines ( nodal generators ) ; to determine the number of these , it is necessary to consider the skew surface generated by a line meeting a given right line and a given curve of the order m twice ; and the order of such surface is found to be =--m(m-1)h , where h is the number of apparent double points of the curve .
The theory is somewhat further developed in Dr. Salmon 's memoir " On the Degree of a Surface reciprocal to a given one , " Trans. R. Irish Acad. vol. xxiii .
pp. 461-488 ( read 1855 ) , where certain minor limits are given for the orders of the nodal curves on the skew surface generated by a line meeting a given right line and two curves of the orders m and n respectively , and on that generated by a line meeting a given right line and a curve of the order m twice .
And in the same memoir the author considers the skew surface generated by a line , the equations whereof are ( a,..3t , l)m=O ( al,..]t , l)n=0 , where a,. .
al,. .
are any linear functions of the coordinates , and t is an arbitrary parameter .
And the same theories are reproduced in the Treatise on the Analytic Geometry of three Dimensions , " Dubl .
1862 .
I will also , though it is less closely connected with the subject of the present memoir , refer to a paper by M. Chasles , " Description des Courbes a double Courbure de tous les ordres sir les surfaces reglees du troisieme et du quatrieme ordre , " Comptes Rendus , t. liii .
( 1861 , 2 ' Sem .
) , pp. 884-889 .
2K The present memoir ( in the composition of which I have been assisted by a correspondence with Dr. Salmon ) contains a further development of the theory of the skew surfaces generated by a line which meets a given curve or curves : viz. I consider , -lst , the surface generated by a line which meets each of three given curves of the orders m , n , p respectively ; 2nd , the surface generated by a line which meets a given curve of the order m twice , and a given curve of the order n once ; 3rd , the surface which meets a given curve of the order m three times ; or , as it is very convenient to express it , I consider the skew surfaces , or say the " scrolls , " S(m , n , p ) , S(m2 , n ) , S(m3 ) .
The chief results are embodied in the Table given after this introduction , at the commencement of the memoir .
It is to be noticed that I attend throughout to the general theory , not considering otherwise than incidentally the effect of any singularity in the system of the given curves , or in the given curves separately : the memoir contains , however , some remarks as to what are the singularities material to a complete theory ; and in particular as regards the surface S(m3 ) .
I am thus led to mention an entirely new kind of singularity of a curve in space-viz .
, such a curve has in general a determinate number of " lines through four points " ( lines which meet the curve in four points ) ; it may happen that of the lines through three points , which can be drawn through any point whatever of the curve , a certain number will unite together and form a line through four ( or more ) points , the number of the lines through four points ( or through a greater number of points ) so becoming infinite .

