392 Capt. W. de W. Abney and Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
[ June 21 , ( q P2 '4 P/ t 3\#171 ; 2 ' 2~ + ~2 P*\#187 ; 3\#187 ; ~ V w ( q ( \lt ; *-\#163 ; - p2 + 2 3 ^ )(t ) S , F\gt ; , W 2^4/ We have to eliminate ft between these three equations ; the resultant between equations of the third and fourth order is given by Salmon ; also the resultant between two quartics , from which we may deduce the resultant of a quartic and a quintic .
The result will be tremendously complicated ; but we must remember the number of double tangents to a non-singular quintic is 120 , which naturally suggests an equation of the 120th degree , which I apprehend few mathematicians would like to solve .
It is impossible , however , to predict the future of analysis .
I have omitted to take any notice in this paper of the modifications which would be occasioned by double points , hoping , if permitted , to return to the subject .
I would observe in conclusion that the same method applies to the determination of points of inflexion .
Thus in the quartic , taking a , / 3 , 7 , B for the roots of the equation produced by eliminating between the quartic and a straight line , and putting = / 3 = 7 , we find it easy to eliminate at and B and to find two equations which will give the inflexional tangents .
XIY .
" On the Determination of the Photometric Intensity of the Coronal Light during the Solar Eclipse of August 28-29 , 1886 .
Preliminary Notice .
" By Captain W. DE W. Abney , C.B. , RE .
, F.R.S. , and T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1888 .
Attempts to measure the brightness of the corona were made by Pickering in 1870 , and by Langley and Smith , independently , in 1878 , with the result of showing that the amount of emitted light as observed at various eclipses , may vary within comparatively wide limits .
These observations have been discussed by Harkness ( ' Washington Observations for 1876/ Appendix III ) , and they will be again discussed in the present paper .
Combining the observations it appears that the total light of the corona in 1878 was 0'072 of that of a standard candle at 1 foot distance , or 3'8 times that of the full moon , or 0'0000069 that of the sun .
It further appears from the photographs that the coronal light varied inversely as the square of 1888 .
] Intensity of Coronal Light during Solar Eclipse .
393 the distance from the sun 's limb .
Probably the brightest part of the corona was about 15 times brighter than the surface of the full moon , or 37,000 times fainter than the surface of the sun .
The instruments employed by the authors in the measurement of the coronal light on the occasion of the solar eclipse of August 28-29 , 1886 , were three in number .
The first was constructed to measure the comparative brightness of the corona at different distances from the moon 's limb .
The second was designed to measure the total brightness of the corona , excluding as far as possible the sky effect .
The third was intended to measure the brightness of the sky in the direction of the eclipsed sun .
Tn all three methods the principle of the Bunsen photometric method was adopted , and in each the comparison-light was a small glow-lamp previously standardised by a method already described by one of the authors in conjunction with General Festing .
In the first two methods the photometer-screen was fixed , the intensity of the comparison-light being adjusted by one of Varley 's carbon resistances : in the third the glow-lamp was maintained at a constant brightness , the position of the screen being adjusted along a graduated photometer bar , as iu the ordinary Bunsen method .
Full details of the construction of the several pieces of apparatus will be given in the full paper .
The observations during the eclipse were made at Hog Island\#151 ; a small islet at the south end of Grenada , in lat. 12 ' 0 ' 1ST .
and long .
61 ' 43 ' 45 " W. , with the assistance of Captain Archer and Lieutenants Douglas and Bairnsfather of H.M.S. " Fantome .
" The duration of totality at the place of observation was about 230 seconds , but measurements were possible only during 160 seconds , at the expiration of which time the corona was clouded over .
A careful discussion of the three sets of measurements renders it almost certain that the corona was partially obscured by haze during the last 100 seconds that it was actually visible .
Selecting the observations made during the first minute , which are perfectly concordant , the authors obtain six measurements of the photometric intensity of the coronal light at varying distances from the sun 's limb , from which they are able to deduce a first approximation to the law which connects the intensity of the light with the distance from the limb .
The observations with the integrating apparatus made independently by Lieutenants Douglas and Bairnsfather , agree very closely .
It appears from their measurements that the total light of the coronarin the 1886 eclipse was\#151 ; Douglas ... ... ... ... ... .
0 '0123 standard candle .
Bairnsfather ... ... ... . .
0 '0125 Mean at a distance of 1 foot .
0 -0124 394 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
SeismometrMeasurements [ June 21 , In comparing these observations with those made during the 1878 eclipse , it must be remembered that the conditions of observation on the two occasions were widely different .
The observations in the West Indies were made at the sea 's level , in a perfectly humid atmosphere and with the sun at no greater altitude than 19 ' .
Professor Langley , in 1878 , observed from the summit of Pike 's Peak in the Rocky Mountains at an altitude of 14,000 feet , in a relatively dry atmosphere and with the sun at an altitude of 39 ' .
From observations on the transmission of sunlight through the earth 's atmosphere ( Abney , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 178 ( 1887 ) , p. 251 ) one of the authors has developed the law of the extinction of light , and , by applying the necessary factors , it is found that the intensity of the light during the 1886 eclipse , as observed at Grenada , is almost exactly half of that of which would have been transmitted from a corona of the same intrinsic brightness when observed at Pike 's Peak .
Hence to make the observations of Professor Langley comparable with those of the authors , the numbers denoting the photometric intensity of the corona in 1878 must be halved .
The result appears , therefore , that whereas in 1878 the brightness of the corona was 0'0305 of a standard candle at a distance of 1 foot , in 1886 it was only 0-0124 of a candle at the same distance .
Several of the observers of the West Indian Eclipse ( including one of the authors ) were also present at the eclipse of 1878 , and they concur in the opinion that the darkness during the 1886 eclipse was very much greater than in that of 1878 .
The graduations on instruments , chronometer faces , which were easily read in 1878 , were barely visible in 1886 .
In explanation of this difference in luminous intensity it must not be forgotten that the 1878 eclipse was not very far removed from a period of maximum disturbance , whereas in 1886 we were approaching a period of minimum disturbance .
XV .
" Seismometric Measurements of the Vibration of the New Tay Bridge during the Passing of Railway Trains .
" By J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Professor of Engineering in University College , Dundee .
Received June 20 , 1888 .
The absolute methods of seismometry which have been developed during recent years in Japan , and have been applied to the measurement of earthquakes there and elsewhere , may serve a useful purpose in determining the extent and manner of the shaking to which engineering structures are subject through storms of wind , moving loads , or other causes of disturbance .
Existing forms of seismograph are well suited for measurements of this kind , provided the frequency

