o50 Mr. A. E. Tutton .
Thermal Deformation of the The experiments confirm those recorded in the preceding section .
Abdominal compression raises the vena cava pressure , and so leads to increased cerebral capillary pressure , and in this way to increase in the volume of the cerebro-spinal fluid secreted .
Increase of volume , as before , is accompanied with fall in the percentage of solids present .
1ntra-vascularInjection of the Cerebro-spinal Fluid .
One of us ( W. D. H. ) , in conjunction with Dr. Mott , F.E.S. , has been for some time engaged in examining the results of injecting into animals cerebro-spinal fluid removed from cases of brain atrophy , especially from cases of general paralysis of the insane .
This fluid contains a toxic substance , choline , doubtless derived from the disintegration of lecithin in the brain .
Injection of .
such fluid into the jugular vein of animals ( dogs , cats , rabbits ) , anaesthetised with ether , causes a marked lowering of arterial blood pressure , which is partly cardiac in origin , but principally due to the local action of the poison on the neuro-muscular apparatus of the peripheral vessels , especially in the splanchnic area.* The fluid obtained from the present case was also injected in a similar way .
Quantities varying from 7 to 10 c.c. were injected into the circulation in dogs , but with entirely negative results .
Such a quantity in the case of fluid from a general paralytic would be quite sufficient to cause a marked fall of arterial pressure .
Similar negative results , both as regards blood pressure and respiration , were obtained with other specimens of normal cerebro-spinal fluid removed from other animals , or from cases of meningocele and hydrocephalus in children .
In all such cases , also , choline was searched for chemically , but with negative results .
" The Thermal Deformation of the Crystallised Normal Sulphates of Potassium , Eubidium , and Caesium .
" By A. E. Tutton , B.Sc. Communicated by Captain Abney , C.B. , F.E.S. Deceived January 31 , \#151 ; Eead February 16 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) In this memoir are communicated the results of sixty-four determinations of the thermal expansion of the orthorhombic crystals of the normal sulphates of potassium , rubidium , and caesium , carried out for the three axial directions of the crystals with the aid of the compensated interference dilatometer previously described by the author . !
* \#163 ; Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' Feb. , 1897 , and Feb. , 1898 ( ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vols .
21 and 22 ) .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 191 , p. 313 .
Crystallised Normal Sulphates of Rubidium , \lt ; fc .
351 The employment of the compensated method has proved highly successful , extremely concordant results being afforded with crystals not necessarily more than 5 mm. thick .
The twenty-nine different parallelfaced crystal-blocks employed varied in thickness from 4-8 to 10*7 mm. The main conclusions from the work are given in the following summary .
The coefficients of cubical expansion exhibit a progression , corresponding to the progression of the atomic weights of the three respective metals .
This is true of both the constants a and b in the general expression for the coefficient of cubical expansion , a = for any temperature t.The actual values are shown in the following table :\#151 ; a. b. K2S04 ... ... ... . .
0-000 104 75 0-000 000 069 8 Rb2S04 ... ... ... 0-000 103 14 0-000 000 076 7 Cs2S04 ... ... . .
0-000 101 70 0-000 000 081 0 The order of progression of the two constants is inverted ; the coefficient for 0 ' , diminishes with increasing atomic weight of the metal , while b , half the increment of the coefficient per degree of temperature , increases .
Consequently , the coefficients of cubical expansion of the three salts converge , with rise of temperature , and attain equality in pairs .
Identity is attained for potassium and rubidium sulphates at 114 ' , for potassium and caesium sulphates at 136 ' , and for rubidium and caesium sulphates at 168 ' .
At 136 ' equality for all three is only deviated from by one unit in five hundred .
Beyond the temperature of identity divergence occurs , and an increase of atomic weight is now accompanied by an increase of expansion .
The thermal deformation is of the nature of an expansion in all directions in the crystals of all three sulphates .
The differences between the coefficients of linear expansion along the three axial directions of any one salt , although only amounting to one-eighth of the total coefficient , are large compared with the differences between the values for the same direction of the three salts .
This , together with the fact that the replacement of one metal by another is accompanied by considerable modifications of the relations of two of the three values for the original salt , those corresponding to the axes a and c , prevent the coefficients of linear expansion for any one direction of the three salts from exhibiting any progression corresponding to that of the atomic weights of the three metals .
These directional perturbations are , however , mutually compensative , so that the effect of interchange of the metals is clearly exhibited by the solid deformation , the cubical expansion , in the progressive manner already indicated .
The increment of the linear coefficient of expansion along the axis c of each salt is about twice as large as the increments for the other two 352 Deformation of the Crystallised Sulphates of Potassium , ^ directions , a and b , for which latter the increments are nearly equal .
This is analogous to the optical behaviour , the refractive power being altered ( diminished ) by rise of temperature much more in the direction of the axis c than in the other two directions , in which the lesser amounts of change are nearly equal. .
The amount of expansion along the direction of the axis b is approximately identical for all three sulphates , indicating that interchange of the metals is without influence on the thermal behaviour along this axis .
The crystals of all three salts expand least in this direction , which is , therefore , the common minimum axis of the thermal ellipsoid .
The chief of the directional perturbations previously referred to consists of a reversal , for temperatures below 50 ' , of the directions of the maximum and intermediate axes of the thermal ellipsoid for rubidium sulphate , compared with their directions in the potassium and ca3sium salts .
The maximum thermal axis is c for the two latter salts , but a for rubidium sulphate .
A similar reversal of the direction of the imaYi'mnm axis of the optical ellipsoid ( the indicatrix ) , the first median line , from c to a , occurs for the same temperatures , in the case of rubidium sulphate .
The maximum thermal axis is identical with the first median line in all three salts .
At high temperatures the same relations continue to hold for the potassium and caesium salts , both thermally and optically .
But owing to the increment of expansion along c being so much greater than for the other directions , the intermediate expansion along c for rubidium sulphate attains equality at 50 ' with the expansion along a , and beyond this temperature c becomes the maximum thermal axis for this salt , as it is for the other two sulphates .
Consequently , at 50 ' the crystals of rubidium sulphate are apparently thermally uniaxial .
At temperatures varying 10 ' each side of 50 ' for different wave-lengths of light , they have previously been shown to simulate uniaxial optical properties .
The thermal and optical ellipsoids of revolution are not , however , identically orientated , the axis of the former being b and of the latter a. Further , the change of direction of the maximum thermal axis of rubidium sulphate from a to c is followed optically at 180 ' by the change of the first median line from a to c , rendering the rule as to coincidence of the maximum thermal axis and the first median line again valid .
A close parallelism between the linear thermal expansion and the directional optical behaviour is thus found to exist .
The optical constants have been shown in a previous memoir* to exhibit a clear progression following the order of progression of the atomic weights of the three alkali metals ; the values for the three salts are very much more widely separated than in the case of the linear thermal constants , * ' Journ. Chem. So .
, Trans. , ' 1894 , p , 628 .
Reflex Electrical Effects Mixed Nerve , Sc , and consequently the progression is undisturbed by the modification of the directional differences for the same salt , which are relatively so much more important in the case of the thermal constants .
The net effect of the replacement of one metal by another has , however , been shown to be clearly demonstrated by the progression of the coefficients of the cubical expansion and their increments .
The final conclusion of the investigation , therefore , is that : The thermal deformation constants of the crystal 's of normal of potassium , rubidium , and caesium exhibit variations which , in common the morphological , optical , and other physical properties previously follow the order of progression of the atomic weights of the alkali metals which the salts contain .
" On the Reflex Electrical Effects in Mixed Nerve and in the .
Anterior and Posterior Roots .
" By Miss S. 0 .
M. Sowton .
Communicated by A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received December 12 , 1898 , \#151 ; Read February 16 , 1899 .
The following experiments were made during the months of May , June , and July , 1897 , in the Physiological Laboratory of Leipzig , under the guidance of Professors Hearing and v. Frey , to test whether in the frog , reflex electrical changes could be demonstrated at the central end\#151 ; I. Of a mixed nerve .
II .
Of anterior roots alone .
III .
Of posterior roots alone .
As regards the first two heads , the end in view was simply the actual verification of an extremely probable phenomenon , preparatory to an examination of the third head , viz. , reflex electrical effects propagated down the posterior roots , which , in 1891 , * were pointed out by Gotch and Horsley , and offered as proof of the passage of centrifugal nerve impulses in normally afferent nerve channels .
The results obtained in the present experiments being somewhat difficult to interpret , the notes were laid aside until opportunity should offer for carrying the investigation further .
Professor Bernstein having , however , quite recently !
discussed the question of the reflex negative variation of the nerve current , the moment seemed opportune for submitting these results as they stand to the attention of those interested in the subject .
The galvanometer used was on the lines of Thomson 's reflecting instrument , with modifications by Carpentier .
The leading-off electrodes had finely pointed camel 's hair brushes inserted in the plug * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 182 .
* f 'Pfluger 's Arcliiv , ' toL 73 , p. 374 , 1898 .

