28 Mr. J. R. Green .
[ Jan. 14 , hollow circular cylinder of the same thickness and the same sectional area .
Experiments upon the torsional strength of hollow prisms of various forms , having the same sectional area and thickness of shell , can alone determine the latter point ; while , at the same time , such experiments would serve the further purpose of showing how the condition above referred to\#151 ; that the shell shall be stiffened internally so as to effectually resist change of form\#151 ; can best be complied with .
The distribution of the torsional stresses over the transverse section of a ship 's hull is obviously different from the distribution of the stresses due to longitudinal bending .
The parts subjected to greatest stress by twisting are those which are near to the centre of gravity of the transverse section ; and they are the side plating near the neutral axis of longitudinal bending in the upright position and the middle portions of the plating of the decks .
Those parts of .
the hull which are usually made the strongest , viz. , the strakes of side and bottom plating that are farthest from the neutral axis , and the upper deck stringer plate , are those which are least affected by twisting .
It is probably owing , in great measure , to the straining action caused by twisting , that experience has proved it to be necessary to make the outside plating of a ship of nearly uniform thickness over the whole section ; and it cannot be because of the reason sometimes given , that the plating in the vicinity of the neutral axis when a ship is upright is often brought by rolling into positions in which it is greatly strained by longitudinal bending .
The importance of many of the structural arrangements of ships that are described in the present paper , which practical experience has shown to be necessary , may be understood from these considerations ; and it will also be seen that no rules for regulating the strength of ships are likely to be satisfactory if based , as is often done , upon the hypothesis that the straining actions caused by longitudinal bending are so much more important than all others that it is sufficient to regard them alone .
III .
" Proteid Substances in Latex .
" By J. R. Green , B.Sc. , B. A. , Demonstrator of Physiology in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , C. M.G. , F.R.S. , Director of Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received January 4 , 1886 .
In the study of the metabolism of plants , the nature of the products resulting therefrom , and the different forms assumed by these " bodies during the changes involved , attention has been .chiefly Proteid Substances in Latex .
1886*1 directed to the seed .
No doubt special facilities for investigation are afforded thereby , for the different bodies can be detected there by the aid of the microscope , and their behaviour under the action of different reagents watched .
Hence valuable results have been arrived at , and our knowledge of vegetable metabolism has made considerable advance .
By the investigations of Hoppe-Seyler , * Weyl , t and Zoller , J the similarity of vegetable proteids to those occurring in animals was pointed out , members of the globulin family at least being shown to exist .
Later Vines , by an exhaustive examination , both macroscopic and microscopic , of a very large number of seeds , has added greatly to our knowledge of these bodies , proving that besides globulins , a form of albumose , albuminates , and coagulated proteids are to be isolated , and showing the actual conditions and proportions in which these are present in the seeds .
S It is evident , however , that our knowledge of the seed , even if made complete , will not give us all the information we require concerning the nitrogenous metabolism of the plant .
The condition of the proteid matter at a time antecedent to its appearance as reserve material must be considered as equal in importance and in interest .
The round of changes going on normally in the leaves and the soft tissues of the stem has hitherto remained unknown , nor had we any knowledge of the condition and characters of the proteid bodies circulating in the plant ; and met with in the latex and in the soft green parts until recently , when Martin || published an account of his investigations into the nature and action of the ferment present in the Papaw plant ( Carica papaya)and has therein described certain pro- teids which he has found to be present in the dried milk of the fruit of the plant .
These he says are four in number , two belonging to the group of the albumoses , a globulin and an albumin .
To the albumoses , which are the most plentiful in amount , he gives the names of a and / 3 phytalbumose .
During the summer of 1884 I was enabled , through the kindness of Mr. Thiselton Dyer , Assistant Director of the Royal Gardens , Kew , to make some investigations into the composition of the latex of several caoutchouc-yielding plants belonging to the natural orders Apocynece and Sapotacece .
% In most cases the latex was a very complex fluid , containing , besides proteids and carbohydrates , considerable * * * S * " Med.-Chetn .
Unters .
, " 1867 . .
+ " Zeitsclir .
f. Physiol.-Cliein .
, " i , 1877 ; " Ber .
d. deut .
Chera .
Ges .
, " xiii , 4,1830 .
X " Ber .
d. deut .
Chem. Ges .
, " xiii , 10 , 1880 .
S " Journal of Physiology , " vol. iii , No. 2 .
|| Ibid. , vol. v , No. 4 , and vol. vi , No. 6 , p. 336 .
TT [ These samples , thirty-four in number , were collected for Dr. Vines with very great pains and trouble by Mr. D. F. A. Hervey , Eesident Councillor , Malacca.\#151 ; W. T. T. D. ] Mr. J. R. Green .
[ Jan. 14 , quantities of caoutchouc , resinous matters , \amp ; c. , the latter being very variable in amount , and absent from some samples .
The material was collected in the Malay Peninsula from the plants , and a little alcohol having been added as a preservative , was sent to England in sealed bottles .
On its arrival at the laboratory , some of the bottles had their contents hardly at all changed except that the large amount of caoutchouc contained in the fluid had undergone the process technically known as coagulation , and was floating in a milky liquid .
Others had become quite spoiled in transit , the latex having deposited a quantity of amorphous matter , which gave a xanthoproteic reaction , and seemed to be coagulated proteid .
In the debris besides this , there appeared under the microscope , a number of small droplets , of caoutchouc , a few sphsero-crystals , some spicular crystals , and some flat plates of rhomboidal form .
Examination of these last as to proteids not being practicable , attention was given to the uninjured samples , which differed in no way from each other .
The particular experiments , whose results are detailed below , were made upon the latex of a plant , the Malay name of which was given a3 " Gegrip pnteh."* The mass of caoutchouc floating in the fluid was allowed to drain dry , and was then with difficulty cut up into small pieces and macerated some in water and some in salt solutions .
Soaking for several days failed to extract anything of a proteid nature from it .
Attention , therefore , was directed to the liquid remaining after its separation .
This , as said above , was milky in appearance , of a faintly yellow colour , aromatic smell , [ and neutral reaction .
Under the microscope it was at once apparent that the milky appearance was due to minute droplets of caoutchouc which had not separated out with the bulk .
There was nothing granular or amorphous visible , showing that the proteids had not been precipitated by the alcohol used .
To free the latex from the caoutchouc , filtration under vacuum pressure through a porous pot was necessary , when the droplets formed 9 , film round the earthenware , and as the liquid was gradually removed they fused together , giving rise to a thin sheet of india-rubber .
The fluid passed through the pot clear and in a condition fit for examination .
In this liquid so prepared a very curious proteid body was found to exist , differing in important particulars from any hitherto described as occurring in plants.t Its presence was readily shown by the * [ Yielded by an Apocynaceous plant , Parameria glandulifera .
The selection of this particular sample , which happened to stand first in a series of thirty-four , was a little unfortunate , as it is not a very characteristic caoutchouc-yielding species.\#151 ; W. T. T. IX ] f In a communication made to the Cambridge Philosophical Society I hare already given a brief account of its properties and reactions ( " Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc. , " vol. v , Part III , p. 183 , October term , 1884 ) .
Proteid Substances Latex .
1886 .
] xanthoproteic reaction , the orange colour on the addition of the ammonia being very marked .
On warming the liquid gradually to boiling point there was no coagulation or opalescence , and on adding nitric acid there was no precipitate .
Hence the body does not belong to the groups of albumins or globulins .
On dropping the boiled liquid into large excess of alcohol , a precipitate was slowly formed , which after standing some hours settled to the bottom of the vessel .
These reactions suggested a member of the class of peptones , and as these proteids , though thrown down from their watery solutions by alcohol , are not changed by contact with the spirit , the precipitate was allowed to remain as it settled for about three weeks .
At the expiration of that time the alcohol was decanted off , and the precipitate dried .
It was then found to be freely soluble in distilled water , and to give , as the original latex did , a well-marked xanthoproteic reaction .
A further resemblance between this body and the group of peptones was revealed by its behaviour when submitted to dialysis .
A quantity of the solution of the precipitate that had been standing under alcohol was put into a dialyser and suspended in twice its volume of distilled water .
After two days the fluid outside the dialyser was examined .
It gave readily the xanthoproteic reaction , and on addition of a large volume of alcohol a marked opalescence appeared , which on standing became a precipitate .
Hence this proteid body appeared to have considerable resemblance to the group of peptones , if not to be a member of it .
Further examination , however , brought to light some points that indicated a relation to the albumoses also .
Saturation of the solution of the alcohol precipitate by solid MgS04 gave a copious precipitate , which was redissolved on adding water .
The liquid outside the dialyser in the last experiment behaved similarly .
The precipitation took place with equal readiness whether the reaction of the solution were neutral or slightly either alkaline or acid .
Till recently the precipitation of a proteid by saturation of its solution with a neutral salt was held to be a mark of a globulin , but this reaction cannot now be held to be sufficient of itself to prove this .
Halliburton has shown* that it is possible to precipitate serum albumin by such a process , the salt necessary being the double sulphate of magnesium and sodium .
Heynsius has statedf that peptone itself may be thrown down from its solution by ammonium sulphate in similar quantity ; a statement that is endorsed by Martin.$ PollitzerS denies this , as far as true * * * S * " Journal of Physiology , " vol. v , No. 3 , p. 182 .
' t " PAuger 's Archiv , " Bd .
34 , s. 330 .
I Loc .
cit. , p. 343 .
S " TTeber den Nahrwerth einiger Verdanungsproducte des Eiweisses , " " Pfliiger 's Archiv , " Bd .
xxxvii , H , 5 \amp ; 6 , 1885 .
Mr. J. R. Green .
[ Jan. 14 , peptone is concerned , and shows that by the process peptones and albnmoses may be separated .
A recent paper by Kuhne* also discusses this question , and shows that true peptone remains in solution while the ammonium sulphate throws down all the albumoses .
He further explains the results that Heynsius arrived at , by showing that the commercial specimens of peptones that the latter used and thought to be pure were largely mixed with albumoses .
Though peptone has not yet been precipitated by saturation of its solution with neutral salts , it seems to be almost the only form of proteid that has refused to behave so , and it seems to be rather a question of what salt will throw down a particular proteid , than that such precipitation is a mark of any particular group .
The solution of the alcohol precipitate differed also from that of an animal peptone , in not giving a pink colour on the addition of sodic hydrate and a drop of cupric sulphate ( biuret reaction ) .
It agreed with it , however , in not giving a precipitate with potassic ferro-cyanide and acetic acid .
Careful investigation of this body disproved the idea that it might really consist of a mixture of an albumose and a peptone for the solution of the precipitate , whether prepared by saturation with neutral salt , or by treatment with excess of alcohol , uniformly answered all the tests applied as described above .
The dialysate also behaved on all these points just as the solution before dialysis .
There is no doubt , therefore , that the body was a single one and not a mixture .
In examining the proteids found in other plants this body was again met with , and its reactions investigated at some length .
It will be convenient therefore to postpone summarising them until later .
A little later in the year Mr. Dyer kindly sent me a bottle of the latex of Mimusops globosa , Gsertu f This differed very much from that of the East Indian latex-yielding trees , being a thick , almost pasty , liquid of white appearance and sour smell .
It would not filter clear through paper and was therefore submitted to the action of the filter-pump used before .
The diluted filtrate , and a watery extract of the dried residue , were taken for examination .
The solution thus obtained proved on investigation to contain two proteid bodies , which could be separated from each other with tolerable ease .
On heating the solution gradually , having first neutralised , a little opalescence appeared , but it did not become particulate even at the boiling point .
When the liquid was made either * " Albumen und Peptone , " " Yerhand .
d. Naturhist.-Med .
Ver. , " Heidelberg , N. F. , Bd .
iii , H. 4 , 1885 , s. 286 .
t [ The well-known source of the Gum Balata of British Guiana , from which the specimen was obtained .
The specimens were kindly procured by Mr. G. S. Jenman , Superintendent of the Botanic Garden , British Guiana.\#151 ; W. T. T. D. ] Proteid Substances in Latex .
1886 .
] acid or alkaline , however , it behaved differently .
In a nitric acid solution an opalescence was noticeable when the temperature had risen to 85\#151 ; 90 ' C. This was not removed by the addition of more nitric acid .
On keeping the vessel for some time at this temperature , the opalescence became a precipitate , which was soluble at ordinary temperatures in alkalis , slightly so in water , but not in nitric acid .
The solutions gave the xanthoproteic reaction .
A curious point about this body was the slowness with which the precipitate formed , it appearing not at all like the usual conversion into coagulated proteid on a rise of temperature , but more like a slow precipitation by the reagent at that particular point .
This was confirmed by several experiments , one of which , often repeated , was the following .
A quantity of the extract was made acid with nitric acid and warmed to 75 ' C. , a point considerably below that at which the precipitate was first observed to form .
It was then allowed to cool , and as the temperature was gradually falling , the precipitate slowly separated out .
The body seemed then to be slowly precipitated by nitric acid , but not at the ordinary temperature .
In an alkaline solution its behaviour was somewhat different .
The opalescence set in at 79 ' C. , and a bulky precipitate settled out slowly at .85 ' C. This was soluble to a large extent in nitric acid , and was reprecipitated when the liquid was made alkaline .
A solution in caustic soda of the precipitate caused by nitric acid at 85 ' C. behaved similarly .
The precipitation here also seemed to be caused by the reagent and not by the temperature , for the alkaline liquid deposited the proteid body on cooling just as the acid one did , and in about the same time as when the temperature was kept constant at 85 ' C. Both precipitates were unaltered in the separation ; each went into solution readily in its appropriate medium , the solutions all giving the xanthoproteic reaction .
This proteid gave no precipitate with acetic acid and potassic ferro-cyanide .
After removal of this body by repeated boiling and filtration , the clear fluid gave a good xanthoproteic reaction .
On applying some of the tests used in the case of the Bast Indian latex , the same peptonelike body was found to be present .
It dialysed readily , and the solution in water gave a precipitate on saturation with solid MgS04 .
Hence it appears that the latex of globosa contains two proteids , one a member of the albumose group , precipitated under certain conditions by nitric acid or by potash , but not by boiling , and the other more nearly related to the peptones .
In 1823 , Boussingault and Mariano de Rivero* published some observations on the latex of the cowtree of South America ( * " Memoir sir le Lait de l'Arbre de la Yache ( Palo de Vaca ) , " " Annals de Chimie et de Physique , " t. xxiii , 1823 , p. 219 .
VOL. XL .
D 34 Mr. J. R. Green .
[ Jan. 14 , galactodendion , Don ) , one of the They describe it as containing , among other constituents , a fibrous matter of animal nature , which was obtained by evaporating the latex down to dryness , washing the residue with essential oils to free it from waxy and resinous matters , and then getting rid of the essential oils by pressing dry and boiling with water .
This treatment left them a brown mass which contained nitrogen .
On heating this on hot iron they say it burned , giving off an odour similar to that coming from meat heated in the same way .
This matter was not soluble in alcohol , and when obtained by repeated extraction with hot spirit , was left as a residue composed of white flexible threads .
Thinking it possessed all the characteristics of animal fibrin they gave it the same name .
Since the date of their paper no information has been forthcoming as to the real nature of this vegetable fibrin .
A quantity of the latex was obtained by Dr. Vines from Dr. Ernst of Caracas , and a bottle of it was , by his kindness , made available for the purposes of this investigation .
The fluid had been mixed with a small amount of alcohol with a view to its preservation during its transit to England , and the treatment had been not quite so successful as that of the East Indian latex , some , but not much , of the proteid having been coagulated by the spirit .
Still the fluid was of thick creamy consistency , and on digestion with water , and subsequent filtration , yielded a strongly proteid solution.* Extracts were made with water and with solutions of neutral salts , but the resulting liquid behaved in the same manner by whichever method it was prepared .
This extract contained two proteids , one of which was of the nature of an albumin .
When the solution made with distilled water was examined , it was found to contain no salts capable of holding a globulin in solution , the only ones present being a mere trace of phosphates .
The solution , on being dialysed till free from salts altogether , did not deposit any precipitate .
On being boiled there was a well-marked coagulum , and after filtration the now coagulated matter gave a strongly marked xanthoproteic reaction .
When the solution was gradually heated in the usnal apparatus !
the coagulation of the proteid took place at 68 ' C. The other tests for a proteid were fairly satisfactory , but were applied with more difficulty than with an animal albumin .
With Millon 's reagent there was a white precipitate , which went brick-red on boiling ; with copper sulphate and sodic hydrate the violet colour was obtained , but not unless the soda solution was very strong .
There was , however , no precipitate with acetic acid and potassic ferrocyanide .
* The results of my examination of this latex , and a summary of the properties , of the bodies found in this and other vegetable fluids described later , were communicated to the Physiological Society at its Cambridge meeting , May 9 , 1885 .
f Gamgee 's " Physiological Chemistry , " p. 15 .
Proteid Substances in Latex .
1886 .
] This body is of great interest , as till lately no true albumin has been described as occurring in plants .
Ritthausen 's albumins , described by him in 1872 , * as found in seeds , have been shown by later observers , notably by Vines , to be rather globulins held in solution by the neutral salts present in the seeds .
Even Ritthausen himself admits that the existence of a true albumin in seeds had not been established satisfactorily as lately as 1877.J In Martin 's paper already referred to , he describes a body which he has found to be present in Papaw juice , which has the properties of an albumin .
It is coagulated on boiling , is not precipitated on dialysing an extract of the juice , nor on saturating the solution by solid neutral salt .
The body just described as occurring in the latex of seems to be identical with this .
It is noteworthy that both in the case of Martin 's albumin and that which has just been described , the albumin appears to be a form of the circulating and not of the reserve proteid .
Boussingault 's vegetable fibrin was probably this albumin coagulated by the action of the hot alcohol used in its extraction .
There was no other body in the latex that would become coagulated proteid .
The other proteid found in this latex remained in solution after boiling and filtering off the coagulated albumin .
It was hence not changed by heating ; it dialysed easily through a membrane , was precipitated but not coagulated by alcohol , and was precipitated by saturation of its solution by solid MgS04 .
It was therefore the same body as described above as a constituent of the East Indian latex .
In the Brosimum latex there was a larger amount of it present , and its reactions were therefore carefully confirmed .
Besides those already mentioned , two more peculiarities were noticed .
In dilute solution , a stream of C02 passed through it for several hours caused a precipitate .
On submitting it in concentrated or dilute solution to the action of artificial gastric juice , it underwent conversion into a true peptone , which gave a biuret reaction as readily as peptone prepared by the same method from fibrin or other animal proteid .
There was not , however , during the digestion , any formation of acid albumin .
To protect the result from a danger of error arising from peptone being present in the artificial gastric juice employed , the experiment was performed as follows :\#151 ; A certain amount of the proteid was taken from under alcohol , dissolved in water , and the solution decolorised by filtration through animal charcoal .
A solution of pepsin in 0'4 per cent , HC1 was made and filtered .
To a quantity of the proteid solution an equal *4 " Die Eiweiss-Korper der Getreidearten , \amp ; c. , " 1872 .
t Loc .
cit. I " Pfluger 's Archiv , " xv , 1877 , p. 284 .
D 2 Mr. J. R. Green .
[ Jan. 14 , bulk of this extract was added , and a similar quantity of the same was added , in another vessel , to as much water as the quantity of the proteid solution taken .
The two were submitted to a temperature of 40 ' C. for twenty-four hours .
The biuret test was then applied to both , care being taken to have equal quantities taken , and the same amount of caustic soda and copper sulphate added to each .
Peptone was shown to be present in both , but the colour was the deeper in the case of the proteid solution .
Hence , though a trace of peptone was present in the juice employed , the experiment showed formation from the proteid in the latex .
All the material investigated so far had been taken from the plant a considerable time before being examined ; also a certain but varying amount of alcohol had been mixed with it .
There was consequently a double possibility of decomposition of some sort having taken place .
In one case at least there was no doubt that a certain portion of the proteid had been coagulated .
It seemed desirable therefore to investigate certain plants that could be obtained in fair quantity in the fresh condition , and as laticiferous tissues were those in which most proteid matter would be found , choice was made of Manihot glaziovii Muell .
Arg .
( Euphorbiacece)# and the common lettuce , Lactuca sativa , L. ( Comjpositce ) .
A considerable number of the young plants of the former of these was kindly raised by Mr. Irwin Lynch , at the Botanic Garden , Cambridge , and on their attaining a height of about 10 feet they were cut down and examined .
On wounding them a milky latex exuded , but it was impossible to get this to flow in sufficient quantity to work with , hence another method of extracting it proved necessary .
The young plants were cut down , their stems taken and freed from leaves and branches , and the cortex scraped off by a blunt knife .
The mass of tissue was then finely minced , pounded in a mortar , and put into a quantity of water just sufficient to cover the pulp .
After standing for twenty-four hours the whole was strained in a press , through a coarse cloth , yielding a filtrate , turbid , and full of small particles of debris , chlorophyll granules , \amp ; c. In quantity it was about twice the bulk of the water used ; this solution therefore was diluted latex , containing also any soluble matter originally present in the parenchymatous tissue of the cortex .
Filtration , repeated many times , freed it ultimately from all colouring matters and debris arising from the preliminary treatment .
Any soluble pro'teid existing temporarily or permanently in the tissue was hence in this extract .
The proteids normally present in the sieve tubes of Manihot have not been determined , but it is fair to assume that they do not materially differ from those of Gucurbita .
From these Zachariasf has found it possible to extract a proteid body which behaves like a globulin .
* [ The commercial source of Ceara rubber.\#151 ; W. T. T. D. ] t " Bot. Zeitg .
, " February , 1884 , p. 67 .
Proteid Substances Latex .
1886 .
] It is insoluble in distilled water or in sulphate of soda solution , but is soluble in weak acids or alkalis .
Its precipitate in distilled water is changed by contact with alcohol into a white stringy mass .
It gives the xanthoproteic reaction , and that with copper sulphate and potassic hydrate .
Fischer* has observed also that the fluid contents of the sieve tubes in Gucurbita become coagulated on heating .
The first investigation of the extract prepared as above , was not easv on account of the difficulty of getting rid of the soluble phosphates , which were found to be present in considerable quantity .
They were removed by warming with ammonia , but the last traces were very hard to throw down .
The liquid finally , however , ceased to give a precipitate with ammonium molybdate .
Besides the phosphates the salts present were sulphates and chlorides , but both were much smaller in amount than the phosphates .
Having freed the extract from phosphates , it was found to coagulate on boiling , and the coagulum gave the xanthoproteic reaction .
On heating it more slowly an opalescence was found to appear at 74\#151 ; 76 ' C. , which was replaced by a precipitate at about 80 ' C. After filtering this precipitate off , no further opalescence took place up to boiling point .
Dialysis for some time caused a precipitate , though not a very bulky one .
Saturation of the neutralised liquid with MgS04 gave a precipitate , and a stream of C03 through a weak solution did the same .
These reactions , taken together , indicated the presence of a globulin , of pretty much the same character as that found in Gucurbita by Zacharias and Fischer .
They were not , however , quite conclusive , as several of the methods used would have thrown down , if it were present , the body described as occurring in latices examined before .
This body was therefore looked for and found .
After getting rid of the globulin by heating and filtering , the liquid gave the same reactions as those described before as belonging to that body .
The dialysis especially was well marked , alcohol giving a proteid precipitate readily with the liquid outside the dialyser .
The globulin was not so readily isolated , but it proved possible to get it by dialysis .
It was not present in such large quantity as the other , and was more readily precipitated completely from its solution by saturation with solid MgS04 , for the fluid , when both were present , gave a xanthoproteic reaction after it had ceased to give a precipitate on boiling .
It was also precipitated on very large dilation .
Hence in the extract of Manihot are two proteids , one being globulin in nature and agreeing in its reactions with that of Zacharius and of Fischer ; being satisfactorily separated from the other without injury only by dialysis ; both giving precipitates on saturation with solid MgS04 .
A similar body to this globulin has been described by * " Berichte d. deutsch .
bot .
G-esell .
, " vol. ii , No. 7,1885 .
Mr. J. R. Green , [ Jan. 14 , Martin* as being present in Papaw juice .
He speaks of it as being precipitated on boiling , the coagulating point being 70\#151 ; 74 ' 0 .
; precipitated on dialysis ; by C03 from dilute solution ; and by saturation of its neutral solution with MgS04 .
The two appear to be identical .
An extract of Lactuca sativa was prepared in a similar way to that described in the case of Manihot .
In this there was no globulin , but instead a proteid resembling Vines'sf hemialbumose .
It was precipitated on the addition of nitric acid , and the precipitate was largely soluble in excess .
Addition of potassic ferrocyanide to this solution gave a precipitate .
On filtering off the nitric acid precipitate it was found to be soluble in water and dilute alkalis , and the solution was not coagulated on boiling .
The precipitate gave the xanthoproteic reaction .
It differed from Yines 's body in its solutions not giving the biuret reaction , but agreed with it in not dialysing .
After removal of this albumose the extract contained in solution a quantity of the dialysable proteid described as occurring in previous cases .
Before leaving the investigation it seemed well to examine a plant which should belong to an order not specially laticiferous .
The common cabbage ( [ Brassicaoleracea , L. ) , being succulent , was selected .
Its examination was not particularly fruitful , bringing to light only the fact that the dialysable proteid was present there as well as in the other plants .
It was not in this case examined very closely .
No other proteid was found .
My researches , so far , agree with those of Martin in not showing the presence of true peptone in plants .
List of Proteids Found .
1 .
Dialysable proteid , resembling peptone .
This occurred in all plants examined .
Its reactions may be summarised here:\#151 ; a. Soluble in water .
b. Not coagulated on boiling .
c. Precipitated slowly by alcohol , but not coagulated by the reagent .
d. Diffuses readily through membrane .
e. Is not precipitated by nitric acid , nor by acetic acid and by potassic ferrocyanide .
/ .
Is precipitated on saturation of its neutral or acid solution with solid MgS04 .
g. Is precipitated slowly by a stream of C03 through its dilute solution .
h. Is converted into true peptone by the action of pepsin .
i. Does not give the biuret reaction .
+ Loc .
* Loc .
cit. Proteid Substances in Latex .
1886 .
] The body most nearly resembling this which has hitherto been described is that which is stated by Martin* to be produced by the action of papain on the proteids present in papain juice .
It differs from the one now described in that it gives the biuret reaction , and is precipitated by acetic acid and potassic ferrocyanide .
He says nothing as to its power of dialysis .
2 .
Hemialbumose ( Lactuca)\#151 ; ? .
Soluble in distilled water . ? .
Not coagulated on boiling .
c. Precipitated by nitric acid and by acetic acid and potassic ferrocyanide .
This resembles very closely Vines 's hemialbumose , and the body which Martin* has called a-phytalbumose .
It differs in not giving the biuret reaction .
3 .
Albumose ( Mimusops)\#151 ; a. Soluble in distilled water .
b. Not coagulated by boiling in neutral solution .
c. Precipitated slowly by nitric acid at a temperature approaching 70 ' C. d. Not precipitated by acetic acid and potassic ferrocyanide .
4 .
Albumin ( Brosimum)\#151 ; a. Soluble in distilled water .
b. Coagulated at 68 ' C. c. Not precipitated by acetic acid and potassic ferrocyanide .
5 .
Globulin ( Manihot)\#151 ; a. Precipitated by dialysis of its solution .
b. Coagulated on heating to 74\#151 ; 76 ' C. c. Precipitated on saturation of neutral or acid solution with solid MgS04 .
d. Precipitated on large dilution .
e. Precipitated by a stream of C03 through dilute solution .
Both the albumin and the globulin seem to be the same bodies as described by Martin as occurring in Papaw juice .
The probable identity of the former with Boussingault 's vegetable fibrin has already been alluded to .
* hoc .
cit.

