X5F .
Observatzns on Vzsion .
By David Hosaclc , M. D. Com municaled by George Pearson M. D. Fe R. S. Read May , 1:79+ .
BY sv11at power is the eye enabled to view objects distinctly at diFferelat distances ?
As the pupil i$ enlalged or diminislled accordiIlg to the greater or less qualatity of lit , ht , and in a certain degree to the distance of the object , it would readily occur that these different c}langes of the pupil would accotlnt for the phaellotnena in question .
Accordingly anatomists and philosophers , who have avritten upon this sul)ject , have generally 11ac !
recourse to this explanation .
Am-using nzyself with ] these challges of the pupil , as a lxatter of curiosityn by presenting to the eye diff7erelat objects at dif ferent distances , I SODIl perceived that its contractiola and .
dilatation were irreguiarand more lituited than had been sup posed X i. e. that approaclling the object nearer the eye , within a certain distance , the pupil not only ceased to contractZ but became again dilated ; and that beyond a few yards distallce3 it also ceased to ciilate : these circumstances immeciiately ocw curred as obJections to the above explanation ; for strere it from the contraction and dilatation of the iris alone that we see objects at different distancesr I naturally conclucled it should operate regularly to produce its efEects ; but if to view an object at a fev ; t yards distance it be enlarged to the utmost extent , surely it must of itself be insufficient to view one at the distance of several milesn for example , the heavenly bodies .
Azother difficulty here presents itself : in viewing the sun lnsteacl of dilating , according t ; o the distancen it colltracts , obeyizg rather the quaatity or ilatensity of the light , than the distance of the object .
Knowing no other c)bvious power in the eye itself of adapting it to the different distances of objects , it occurred to me to illqelire , whether the cv-Lalbilled action of the external muscles could nc:t have this efEect .
I first proposed this query to an opticiaIl of eminence in Lonaloll , and who l-as written expressly on this subject .
I repeated the $XmE QUeStiOll to a ceqebrated t-eaJcher of anatomy .
Encouraged by their replles , I la &lt; lve si ; nce zattentled more particularly &gt; ; o the suSioct ; , allcl l-lope z71y in( viz ies have not beeil altoether lAllSUCCESSfU .
As ltltroductvly tv a laore distilact view of what I I-lave to acIvanceg it app6-+alS lleCCSSary tG premise the -following obserxlatio-s , relative to vlllose general laws of visio +R7laic1l are noure particulclrly coXnne+ &gt; d with this part of the subject , and to lllich ve sllLlll laxTe occasion of frequent reference .
lSt t &gt; tt AB C3 ( fab .
SVI I. fiiC7 .
&lt; *3 be ctn obje( t placed before the douDle col1N7es le ; s D , at any disjJuatace gleeater than the:radius of the sl3here shezreo the letls is a seglmelat ; the rays hich issue frona the differetat pOilltS of the object , and fall upon t31e lens , will T3so 1)etat lcJy blle refractive power of the glass as to be 1nade to conene at as 1malay other points be !
^iinct the lelas , and at the place of t5zeir concourse they will form an image or picture of the object .
rf]1e distance of the izmage behirltl the glass varies in proportion to the distance of the object before the glass 5 the image approaching as the object recedes , and receding as that approaches .
For if we suppose , ( fig. 2 .
) , A and B two radiating points , from which the rays A C , A D , and B C , B D , fa11 upon the lens C D , it is manifest that the rays from the nearest point A diverge more than those from the more distant point B , the angle at A being greater than that of B ; consequelltly the rays from A , whose direction is AE and AF sYhen they pass through the glass , must convene at some point ( as G ) more distant from the lens than the point H , where the less diverging rays B E : and BL from the point B are made to colavene 7 which may also be proved by experiment with the common convex glass.+ It will be necessary to have this proposition in view , as we shall afterwards have occasion to use it in showing , that by varying the distalace l)etJvYeen the retina and the anterior part of the eye we are enabled to see objects at different distancese 2d .
IS all oNbject , a ; , A B , ( fig. g. ) be placexl at a proper distance before the eye ( E ) , the rays which fall from theseveral pOilltS of the oh ject falling upon the cornea pass through the ptlpil , and will be brougl- &lt; t together lJy the refractive power of the diSerent parts of the eye on a.s many corresponding points of the retina , and there pailat the image of the object , in the same manner as the izmages of ol3gects p]aced before a conrex lens are painted upon the spectru-n , placed at a proper distance behind it ; thustthe rays which flow from the point A are united on the retlna at C , and those which proceed from B are coliected at D , and the rays from all the intermediate points are convened at as many intelnmediate points Qf the * EUCLID , Book I. Prc)p , 2I .
f See KBPI .
ER Diopt .
POSTM1 .
SMITH s Optics , GRAVESANDEX , SCT retina ; on this uion of t}ose srays at the retina depends distinct visior .
But su ; posing tsne eye of a givell form , shoulel the point ; of lulAion sie brond &lt; -he retina , as must be tlole case with those from the less distant ol)ject , agreeable to the preceding proposition ; or should they be united before they arrive at the retina , as from the more distant object , it is evident that the picture at the retina must be extremelzr confused .
Novjr as the rays which fall upon the eye fro ; .n radiating points at lifferent distances have different clegrees of divetgetlce , an(l the divergence of th@ rays increasing as the distance of the radiating pOillt lessens and , vice rersa , lessening as that increases , agaitz , as those rays which have greater degrees of divergence , viz. from the nearer objectsz require a stronger refractive power to brin$ thetu togethsr at a given distance than whatS is necessary to make those lueet which diverge less , it is matlifest , thett to see objects flislLinctly at different distclnces , e ; tlaer the reflactive power of the eye must be increased or dilniniszed , or the distance between the iris and retina be vclried , correspolldiag with tT'e difIerent distances of the objects ; both of svhicXl probably take place , as will hereafter appear.$ Haviizg then establislled tlAese as our premises , we shall ne7 ; t exatnine the diSeArent pricipleswh ; C5t haste been employefl fo.r explaining vision at dierent distances .
* " Facilo eJ+itn intell.gltttl* , quo lollgies ladii advetwiuntX eo may , is esse pa.r-thelos , 4 to minus ergo dixCle , -re ab axi , et ee.zlinoribus virchus corlltZs-e z ; lerstis cryslalilila in " fccum ctzgi .
Ut enim corpas magis distat , ita sub mir el ; alge1sv r , ( li adslt-l ; lnt .
6C Contra si corpus ce ; s ; ) jnum v ; 21de vic.itlt3m tilrit , rador ; lln ' &gt; t'V austotiEnsill .
tls ; gulus est mFor , et a(inv tr.at , is d1oPr , : , elltes in &lt; .
&gt; tit.tt\ il &lt; ciflur3it &gt; ; '2-4us eent retri { gentibus majoribus o ; nn ; bus densiorilous."-H1^ LLE R. ElEm .
PilyS .
1l O. X\ti Most writers upon this subject refer -this power of the eye to the contraction anfl dilaJcation of the iris .
Within certain linlits this viould , upon first examination , as already observed , appear to be the case , siace the pupil enlarges as the object is furthelO removed from the eye , and afraill contracts as it is brought near .
Tlle extent o-fthis prilaciple I Ilave already poitited out ; but I suspect we also err in attributing to the diSerence of distance what are only effects of different cluantities of lightg a circumstance in which it is theZ lalore easy to columit error as they are generally proportionate o-ze to the other ; i. e. as the object is near s^Je re tlire a less degree of lighand to exclude what is superfllous the iris contracts * but as it is more distant , a greater avsantity of ligltt becomes necessary and the iris clilates : thus far we see the as of the ealargenaent or diminution of the ptlpil , as the ob)ect is Inore 03 ; less distant .
But disfillCt ViSit)Il { 4OeS 110t consist in the quantity c)f light alclne , though too much or too little woul(l obscure the image .
Il is also necessary that tlAe rays xvlaicil flow from the object should fall upon the retiica in a certain clirection , to form a distinct picture o but stlrely the gieat-er or less quatltity of light , the greater or less number of rays , which it is only the property of the iris to dimxnisI1 or i ; creaQe , cannot alter the direction .
But there is still another argutnerlJu to p^oste , that the COlltraction or enlargement of the pupil is not of itself sufflcient to produce distillct vision at differeilt distances , viz. that the myopes , whose pupil colltl-acts and dilates cs in other eyes , are still unable to adeLpt the eye to different distalaces ; and the means by which this is remedied certainly does not consist in a larger or smaller aperture for the rays to pass through , but a power of altering their ( lirection , WiliCIl the challge ial the shape of the eye had rendered too collvergent .
the SR1nC fact is also observable in those who squint ; the puy3il i &lt; bOtll eyes equally contracts and dilates , but still the vision of one eye is less perfect than the other .
Another principle upOl &lt; which it has been attempted to explain this power of the eye , is a supposed change in the convexity of the crystalline lens ; the arlcients had some obscure nc)tion of it , hut it has been lately pursued by Mr. THOMAS YOUNG , in a paper published in the Philosophical rRransactions of Londoll for 179S .
He has erldeavoured to demonstrate the existelace of muscles in the crysta]line lens , and by their ac-tion to accoullt for distinct vision at different distances .
This opinic)n deserves here the more particular exanaination , having met the attention of the Royal Society , azld thereby likely to iIlfluence the getleral opinion upon this subject .
'rllat ve may not mistake the mealaing of the author , I beg Ieave to premise his description of the structure of the lens .
c ; rf he crystalline lens of the ox,9 ' he observes , sc is an orbicular ; 4 convex transparent boly , composed of a considerable number t ; of sinilar coats , of wlaicll the exterior closely adhere to the c ; interiorX each of these coats consists of six muscles , inter " mixed with a gelatinous sul}stance , and attached to six mem " branotls tenclons .
Tllree of these tendons are anterior , v ; three posterior ; their length is abotlt two-thirds of the ; ; semidiameter of their coat o their arrangement is that of cc three equal and equidistant rays nleeting in the axis of the 4 ' crystalline ; one of the anterior is directed towards the c ; outer angle of the ey ?
, and one of the posterior towards the ; inner are )gle s so that the posterior are placed opposite to the 4i middle of the interstices of the anterior , and pianes passing 44throu-gla each of the six , anal through the axis , would mark sc on elther stlrface six regular equidistant raysj 'rlle muscu4 ' lar fibres arise from lsoth sides of each tendon , they diverge ; till they reach the greatest circumference of the co ; t , and &lt; ' having passed it , they agaill converge till they are attached u ; respectively to the sides of the nearest tendons of the oppo ; ' site surface .
The exterior or posterior portion of the six , C- ; viewed together , exhibits the appearance of three penni4- ' form-radiated muscles .
' ' In the first place , to say nothing of the transparency of mtlscles , as an argument against their existence , we must unavoidably suppose , as they have mexnbranozls tendons , whiclz Mr. YOUNG i11fOrmS US he distinctly observed , that these tendons cannot possess tE2e sama degree of transparency and density with the bellies of these muscles v that is , they rnst possess some degree of opacityX or certainly lae could rzot have pointed out their luembranous structure , nor even the tendon itself , as diStIllCt from the body of the muscle ; and if they havenot the saule dellsity , from their situation and beig of a pellnitorln shape , must there llot be some irregularity from the difference in the refraction of those rays wl-aich pass through the bellies of those tnuscles an ; l those again which pass through the-ir membranous telldon-s ?
rrl-ais structube then , of consequence , ca.nnot bc well adapted for a body whose regular shape and transparelley are of so nzucla consequence .
Again , Mr. YOUNG describes six mllscles in each lasyer ; but LEEUWENHOEK , whose authority lae admits as accuraten relative to the muscularity of the lens ) is certainly moreto be attended to in his observation of bodies less minute , viz. as tca the layers themselves , in whichthese muscles are found , and which of course are larger , and more easily observed ; but , with his accuracy of obserrration , he has computed , that there are near 2000 lamin a and according to Mr. YOUNG , SUPPOS ing each layer to contain six muscles , we have necessarily , iz -all , lg , ooo muscles ; the action of which certainly exceeds human comprehension .
I hope this will llot be deemed tr-ifling minuteness , as it is a necessary and regular consequence , if we admit their existence as described .
But secondly , as to the existence of these lauscles , I cannot avoid expressing a doubt .
With the ut ; most accuracy I was capable of , and with the assistance of the best glasses , to my disappointmentX I callnot l)ear vitness to the same circumstances related Tie Mr. YOUNG , but found the lells perfectly transparent , at the same time lest it might be attributed to the want of habit in looking through glasses , I beg leave to observe , that I have been accustonled to the use of them in the examination of the more minute objects of natural history .
After failing with the glasses ill the natural viscid state of the lens , I had recourse to another expedient ; I exposed different lenses before the fire to a moderate degree of heat , by which they became opaque and dry , ln this state it is easy to separate the layers described by Mr. YOUNG ; but although not so-numerous as noticed by the accurate LEEUWENHOEK , still they were too numerous to suppose eaPh to have contained six muscles , for I could have shown distinctly at least fifty layers , without the assistance of a -glass , aswas readily granted by those to whom I exhibited them .
But a circumstance which would seem to prove that these Dd i !
layers possess no distinct muscles is , that in this opaque state they are not visible , but consist rather of an almost infinite numberofcollcentric fibres ( if tliae } term be at all appropriate ) not divided into particular bundles , bLlt similar to as many of the finest hairs of equal thicklless5 arranged ill similar order : see fig. 4 , , and 6 , where the arrallgelnent of the layers and fibres has been painted frorrl the real leIls of an ox , and that without the assistance of a glass .
'rO observe this fact , ally person may try the experiment at pleasure , and svitness the same with the naked eye , even separating many layers and their fibres with the point of a penknife .
This regular structure of layers , and those consisting of COncentric fibres , is unqvlestionably better adapted for the transmissioIi of the rays of light , than the irregular strtlcture of muscIes .
It may , perhaps , be urged , that the heat to which I exposed the les may have changed its structure : ill answer to that I observed it was moderate in degree , and regularly applied , of consequence we may presume , as it appeared unifortuly opaqueS that eYery part was alike acted upon ; but by boiling the lens , where the heat is , without doubt , regularly appliedS we observe the same structure .
Thirdly , that it is not frona any changes of the lens , and that this is not the most essential organ in viewing obgects at different distances ?
we may also infer from this undeniable fact , that we can , in a great degree , do without it ; as after couching or extraction , by which operations all its parts must be destroyed7 capsule , ciliary processes , musclesS &amp;c. M. YOUNG asserts , from the authority of Dr. PORTERFIBI , D , that patients , after the operation of couchings have Ilot the poxver of acbommcodating the eye to the diSerent distances of objectsX at pre !
ent , I believe the contrary fact is almost universally asserted .
Besides , if the orlaer powers of the eye are instlficient to compellsate for the i( , .
&lt; s of this dense medium , the lensn a glass of the same S}l ?
.pO azX^rers the purpose , and which certainly does not act by cllangllAw its figtlre .
I grant their vision is not so perfect ; but we l &lt; ave other circumstances upon which this can le more easily explailled ; which NYill be particularly noticed under the laext head It may not be improper also to observe ) that the specific gravity of the crystalline cotupared with that of the ) vitreous 11umour , and of cotlsequence , its density and poner of reaction , is not so great as has been generally believed .
Dr. BitYANT ROBINSON , by the hydrostatic balance , found it to be rlearly as 11 to oo .
I have also examined them with the instrtlment of Mr. SCHMEISSER , lately presented to the Royal Societyn and found the same result , of consequence the crystalline lens is not so essentially 1lecessary for vision as has been represiented s especially as it is also probable , that upon removi:g it , the place which it occupied is again filled by the vitreous humour , whose power of refraction is nearly equal .
At the samo time we cannot suppose the lens an unnecessary organ ill the eye , for nature produces # { ' Et lete ob cataractam extracta vel deposita oculum tamen ad varlas distantias { videre , lot in nobili viro vicleo absque u}le experimento quo eam facultatem recupera\#162 ; ' verit .
Etsi enim tunc ob diminutas vires quz radios uniunt , aeger lent vitrea opus JS habet , eadem tamen lens in omni distantia SUAEiCit .
" HA LLE R , E1 .
P t3ys .
&lt; ' La letltille cristalline n'est cependant point de premiere necessite pour la vision.\#162 ; Au50urd'hui , dans l'operation de 1a cataracte on l'exlleve entierement , et la vision { ' n'en souffre POi[1t .
" DE LA METHERIE Vues Physiologiques .
See also DE LA H1 RE , SIA MBBRGER Physiolog .
nothing in vain ; but that it is not of that indispensable importance , writers upon optics have taught us to believe .
Fourthly , Mr. YOUNG tells us , he has not yet had an opporttlnity of examining the human crystalline a and grants , that i ; rom the spherical form of it in the fishS such a change as he attributes to the lens in quadrupeds cannot take place in that class of animals .
rrhe lenses which I have examined in the mallner--abovenzentiolzed were the 11uman , those of the ex , the slleep , the rabbit , and the fish , and in all the same lamellated structure is observable ; even in the spherical lens of the fish these lame11 are equally distinct , but without the smallest appearance of a musele .
From these circumstances I cannot avoicl the conclusion , that they do llot exisf ; at the same tinae I am persuaded that Mr. YOUNG met with appearances which he supposed were muscles ; but I am satisfied he will readily acknowledge , that the examination of the crystalline lens in its visciS gltinous state , is not only attended with much clifficulty , but that the smallest change of-circumstances might lead to error , which I apprellend may , probably , have been the case ill that instance .
Upoll examining it after boiling , or exposing it to a gradual degree of heat before the fire , whesl it may be handled with freedom , he will readily observe ( without a glass ) the numerous lamells , and the arrangement of their^ fibres , which I have described .
Another opinion has been sanctioned by many respectable writers , of the effects of the ciliary processes in changing the shape and situation of the lens ; some supposed it to possess the power of changing the figure of the crystalline , rendering it more or less convex $ others , that it removed it nearer to the cornea + and others , that it removed it nearer the retina. .
The advocates for these difEerent opinions all agree in attributing these effects to a supposed muscularity of the ciliary processes .
Of the structure of these processes HALLER observes , c ; II1 c ; omlli certe animalium genere processus citiares absque ulla ; ; musculosa sunt fabrica , mere vasculosi vasculis serpentinis " percursi molli facti membrana .
&gt; '\7Vhich strucule , I believe , at present is universally admit:ted .
But even supposing them muscular , such is their delicacy of structure , their attachment , and direction , that we callnot possibly conceive them adequate to the eSects ascrilJed to thens Benide , what we olxserved of the muscles of the letls itself , aiso applies to the processes , viz. that they may be destroyewl , as in couching or extraction , and yet the eye be capable of adapting itself to the different distances of objects .
For a more ftlll refutation of these opinions , see HALLER'3 large work .
The Situation , Strtgcturen and Action of the exernal Mscles .
S Upon carefully removing the eyelids , with their mllscles , we are presented with the muscles of the eye itselfS which are six in n-umber X four called recti , or straight , and two oblique t *DES CARTES , SCHEINERUS , BJlDIOUS , MOLLlNETTUS , SANC'rORIUS , JURINX f KE PLE R , Z{N N , PO RTERF1RL D. t LA CHARIERE , PERRAUIT , HARTSOEKER , BR1SSEAU , and DECHAM .
S For the accuracy oath reprf sentation I have annesed ( ill rrab .
XVIII .
) I cn vouch , havitsb been at much y &gt; uoi)ls in the dissection ; flem which I had the *)ainting taken by a most accurate hand , Mj S. , DWAR155 &gt; a gerltleman well known for his aoilities in the plates of that admirable woiA , tAhe Flora Londollellsis .
so llamed frozn their directions , ( see Tab. XXJIII .
fig. .
) AAA A , the tendolls of the recti muscles , where they are inserted into the sclerotic coat , at the anterior part of the eye .
13 , the superior oblique , or troclllearis , as sometimes called , frozn its passing through the loop or pulley connected to the lonver allgle of the orbiter l1VtC 'll in the os frontis ; it passes *lnder the suerior rectus nuscle , and backwards to the posterior part of the eye , here it is iilserteel by a kroad flat tendon into the sclerotit coat .
C , the inferior oblique , arising tendinous from the edge of the orbiter process of the superior maxillary botle , passes strollg at1d fleslly over the inferior rectus , and backnvards under the abtluctor to the posterior part of the eye , where it is cllsv itlselted by a broad flat tendon into the sclerotic c &lt; )clt .
I ) D rs , the fat ; ill which the eye is lodged .
In fig. 2 .
we have relnoved the bones forming the external side of the orbit , vitll a pol tion of the fat , by which we have a distillCt\iC+\tV of the abdtlctor .
sN B C , three of the recti muscles , arisilag frvtn the back part of the orbit , passing strong , blnoad , and fleslly over the ball of the eye , and inserted by flat , broad tendons into the sclerotic COcltv at its anterior part .
D , the tendon of the superior oblique muscle .
E , the inferior oblique , fig. .
A , the abductor of the eye .
B , the fleshy belly of the stlperior oblique !
arising strong , tenditlous , and fleslay from the bacli part of the orbitX C , the optic nerve .
D and E , the recti muscles .
The use ascribeal to these different muscles , is that of clazanging the direction of the eye , to turn it upwards , downwards , laterally , or in any of the intermediate directions , accom modated either to the diffearent situation of objects , or to express the different passions of the mind , for which they are pecllliarly adapted .
But is it incorlsistelat with the general laws of nature , or even with the animal oecorzomy , that from their combination they should have a different action , and -thus all additional use ?
rO illustrate this we need only witness the action of almost any set of llauscles ill the body 7 for example , in lifting a weight , the combined action of the muscles of the arm , shoulder , and chest , is diASerent from the illdivodual action of either set , or of any illclividual muscle a or all itlstance nearer our purpose may be adduced , viz t ; lae act-iOllS of the muscles of the cllest and belly , making a compression UpOll the viscera , as ill the discharge of urille , foeces &amp;c. But to questioaa this fact would be to question the iIlflu ence of the will in any one of the alluost illfilaite variety of motions in the human bocly .
I presu-me , therefore , it will be admitted that we have the same }3ower over these mllscles of the eye as of others , and I believe we are no less sensible of their colabined action , for examplea after viesn ing all object at the cilstance of hal-f a mile , if we direct our attelation to an object lout terl feet distance , every persoll must be sensible of some exertion &gt; and if Sour attention be continued but for a short time , a degree of uneasio ness and evell pain ill the ball of the eye is experienced ; if again we view an object within the focal distance , i. e. within six or seven inches , such is the intensity of the paill that the esertion can be continued but a very SllOft time , and we agai relieve zt by looking at the more distant objects , this , I believe , must be the experierlce of every person , whose eyes are xn the natural and 11ealthy state , and caccordingly has bee observed by almost every writer upon optics .
But the power of this c-o.mbination , evell from arlalogyg 1WDCCXC IVv E e appears too obvious to need further ll}ustration I shall therefore next endeavour to point out their precise action Suppming the eye in its horizontal natural-positxon ; I see an object distinctly at the distance of six feetfi the picture of the cxbject falls exactly upon the retina ; I now direct ny attentlon to an object at the distance of SIX inches , as nearly as possible in the sarrse line , although the rays from the first object stlll fall upon my eye , while viewing the second it does not form a distinct picture on the retina , although at the same distance as before , which shows that the eye has undergone some changef for while I suas viewing the first object I did not see the second distinctly , althollgh in the same line : and now , vice versa , I see the second distinctly , and not the first ; the rays from the firstn therefore , as they still fall upon the eyen must eithela meet before or lehind the retina ; b}t we have shown that the rays from the more distant object convene sooner than those from the less distant object , therefore the picture of the object at six feet falls before , whi]e the other forlus a distinct image upon the retina ; but as my eye is still in the same place as at first , the retina has by some means or other been relnoved to a greater distance from the fore part of the eye to receive the picture of the nea^er object , agree &gt; able to the principle page 198 .
From w}lch it is esident , that to see the less distant object either the retila should be removed to a greater distance , or tSae reftcting power of the lnedia should be increased : but I hope we h &gt; ave shown that the lens , which is the greatest refracting medium , has rlo power of changing itself .
Let us next inquire , if the external nusclesn the only remaining power the eye possesses are capable of producing those changes .
With respect to the anterior part of t5 ; e eye , we have seeh the situation of those museles c the recti.strong , broad , and flat , arising from the back part of the orbti ptissing orer the ball as over a pulley , and inserted btz broax1 l]lt tendons at the anterior part of the eye ; the oblique illsertel toward the posterior part , also by broad flat tendons , when they act jointly , the eye being in its llori zontal position , it is o ?
ovious , as every muscle in action COl1 tracts itself , the four rectii by their combination must necessarily make a compression upon the diSerent parts of the eyey and thus elongate its axis , while the oblique muscles serve to keep the eye in its proper direction and situation .
For my own part , I have no more difficulty in collceiving of this com bination of those muscles than I have at present of the diffie rent flexors of my fingers in holding my pen .
But oth-er corresponding effiects are also produced by this action ; not only the distance between the anterior and posterior l ?
arts of the eye is increased , but of consequence the convexity of the corneay from its great elasticity , is also increased , and that in proportion to the degree of pressure , by which the rays of light pass ing through it are thence necessarily more converged .
But another effect , and one not inconsiderable , is , that by this elongation of the eye , the media , viz. the aquesus , crystalline\#171 ; and vitreous 11umours through which the ratrs pass , are also lengthened , of consequerlce their powers of refraction are proportionably increased ; all which correspond with the general principle .
It may however be said , that as the four recti muscles are larger and stronger than the two oblique , the acteon of the former would overcome that of the lattery and thus draw back the whole globe of the eye , but does not the fat at the posterior part of the orbit a}so afford a resistance Ee X to the too great action of the rectl muscles , especially a !
S it is of a firm consistence and the eye rests immediately upon it ?
Admitting then that this ls the operation of the external muscles vjrhen in a state of contraction , it is also to lJe observeS , we have the same power of relaxing them , in proportion to the greater distance of the object , thth we arrive at the utmost exteat of lndolent vislons But , as a further testitnony of what has been advanced , I had recourse to the following experiment , which will sllew that the eye is easily compressible , and that the effects produced c-orrespond with the principles I have erldeavoured to illustratee NVith the colnmon speculgm oculi I made a very moderate degree of pressure upon my eyey while directing my attention to an object at the distance of about twenty yards ; I saw it distinctly , as also the dstierent intermediate objects ; but endeavouring to look beyond it , every thing appeared confused I then increased the pressure considerably , in consequence of which I was enabled to see obgects distinctly at a much nearer than the natural focal distance ; for exanlple , I held before ny eve at the ( listance of about two inches , a printed book ; in the natural state of the eye I could neither distinguish tlJe lines nor letters , but upon making pressure with the specue lum I was ellabled to distinguish both line.s and letters of the book with ease .
Sucll then I conceive to be the action and effiects of the external muscles , and which I apprehend will also apply ill exlulaining many other phanomena of vision , some of tnose it will not be improper at present briefly to notice .
First , may not the action of those muscles have more orless effiect in producing the changes of vision which take place in the dilSerent periods of life ?
At the same time the original conformation of the eye , the diminution of its humoars , and , probably , of the quantity of fat upon which the eye is lodged , are also to be tal &lt; en in.o the account .
But the external muscles becotning irregular a1zd debilitateel by old age , in common with every other thuscle of the body , are not only incapable of compensating for these losses , but cannot even perform their wonted action , and t'nus necessarily have considerable illfluence in impairing vision .
Again , does not the habit of long sight so remarkable in sailors and sportsmen , who are much accustomed to view objects at a great distance , an(l that of short sight , as of watchmakers , seal-cutters , &amp;c. admit of an easy soltltion upon this principle ?
as we know of no part of the body so susceptibl ) of an habitual action as the mtlscular fibre .
Secoadly .
How are we to account for the weaker action of one eye in the case of squinti^g ?
'that this is the fact has been well ascertained ; Dr. REID s UPVN this subject observes , that he has examined above twenty persons that squinted , and found in all of them a defect iil the sight of one eye .
PORTEREIELD and JURIN have made the same observation .
The distorted position of the eye has , I believey been generally attributed to the external nuseles ; but rlo satisfactory reason has ever been given why the eye , directed towards an object , does not see it distinctly at the same distance as with the other .
1*he state of the iris here cannot explain it , as it contracts and dilates in common with the other , nor can we suppose a-y muscles the lens might possess could have any effiect , as they are not at all connected wich the nature of this disease .
But the action of the extertaal muscles , I apprehend , will afford us a satisfactory explanation.\hetl the eye is turned from its natural directione for exampie , tonvards the inner catlthus , it is obvious that the addaclor muscIt is shortened , and its antagollist , the abc ; Ju tor , lengthelled ; consequently , as the abductor Ilas not the same power of contracting itself wxth the adductor , wheil the eye is directeel tonvar4s an object , their power of action being dierent and irregular , the compression made upon the eye and its humours must also be equally irregular , and therefore insufficient to produce the regular changes in the refra ; ction and shape of the eye we have shewrl to be necessary in adapting it to the different disfances of objects The effects produced by making a partial pressure UpOll the eye with the finger , or speculum ac ?
lz ; before noticed , would also appear to favour tl:zis explanation .
Thirdlyw May it not in part be osving to the loss of this combined action of the external muscles , and the difficulty of recoveritzg it , that the operation of couching is sometimes unsuccessful , especially when the cataract has been of long standing ?
This cannot be attributed to the iris , for it .
perhaps , dilates and ^contracts as before : nor to the muscles of the lens , for they are removed ; nor to the state of the nerve , for it is stiII sensibl@ to light ; and yet the patient cannot see objects distirlotly , and it is not an uncommon circumstaIlce , even when the operation succeeds , thati the sight is slowly and gradually redovered .
Instances have occurred , Mr. ELLs *.See his System of Surgery .
observes , of the sight becoming gradually better for several months after the operation .
When we have been long out of the habit of combining our muscles in almost any one action of life , as walking , dancing , or playing upon a musical instrument , me in a great measure lose the combination , and find a difficulty in recoverng it , in proportion to the length of time we had been depr^red of it ; but the individual action of each muscle remains as before .
Thus , probably , with the muscles of the eye .
A variety of facts of a similar nature must present themselves to every pers3n conversanf in the science of optics , which may admit of a similar encplallation .
I have thus endealroured first to !
p-oint out the limited action of the iris , and of consenuence the insufficiellcy of this action for explairling vision .
Secondly , to prove that the Iens possesses no power of thanging its form to the different distances of objects .
Thirdly , that to see objects at different distancess corresponding changes of distance should be pro duced between the retina and the anterior part of the eye , as also in the refracting powers of the media through which the rays of light are to pass .
Alad , fourthly , that the combined action of the external zzuscles is nol only capable of producing these effects , but that from their situation and structure they are also peculiarly adapted to produce them .
Is it not then consistent wii ; h every principRe in the oeconomy of nature and of philosophy , seeing the imperfections of the principles which have hitherto been employel in explairling the phenomenon in question , to adopt the one before us , until ( agreeable to one of the established rules ill philosophising ) other phxnomena occur , by which it may be rendered either more general , or liable to objections ?
I have now finished what was proposed .
I have declined entering into an extensive view of the structure of the eye , or ally of the general principles of optics , as those subjects have been more ably treated in the works already cited , and thus would certainly have destroyed every claim to attention , which these fesr pages in their present form may possibly possess ; and if I should be so fortunate as to succeed in establishing the principle I have proposed , for explairling the plz3enomena dependent upon this more important organ of our body ( if any part possesses a pre-eminence in nature ) , I also hope it may , itl abler hands , admit of some practical application , in alleviating the diseases to which its delicate organization so particularly exposes it.$ 4 Since the zabove page-s have been written , I have found , upon consulting some of the earliest writers , that the efl:ects of the external musoles did not altogether escape their attention ; at the same time they had no distinct idea of thexr action : I must thereS3re disclaim the originalxty of the thought , although I had never met with it before the circumstances already noticed , of the insufficiency of the iris , had suggested it .
If , however , I have succeeded in pointing out the precise action of those muscles , and its application to the general principles of vision , in which , I believe , I hate never been anticipatetl , it will be the height of my wisheso PEiZo .
Crzzzw .
MD C CICIV : SoD .
XVII. .
&gt; Z6 .
iX .
X BCEn__ tT LB D ' F t9.3 .
-N B cHo DH{)X G\ } - } &gt; OF b4 .
5o ( X t_ &lt; 4

