1892 ] On Turacin , an Animal Pigment containing Copper .
399 largely taught , and fallaciously used , as a fundamental proposition in thermodynamics .
It is in truth only for an approximately " perfect " gas , that is to say , an assemblage of molecules in which each molecule moves for comparatively long times in lines very approximately straight , and experiences changes of velocity and direction in comparatively-very short times of collision , and it is only for the kinetic energy of the translatory motions of the molecules of the " perfect gas , " that the temperature is equal to the average kinetic energy per molecule , as first assumed by Waterston , and afterwards by Joule , and first proved by Maxwell .
II .
" Researches on Turacin , an Animal Pigment containing Copper : Part II .
" By A. H. Church , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Academy of Arts , London .
Received April 2 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is in continuation of one read before the Society in May , 1869.* It contains an account of observations made by other investigators on turacin and on the occurrence of copper in animals ; a table of the geographical distribution of the Tonracas , and a list of the twenty-five known species ; a chart of turacin spectra ( for which the author is indebted to the kindness of Dr. MacMuml ) ; and a further examination of the chemical characters and the composition of turacin .
The more important positions established by the present inquiry are these :\#151 ; 1 .
The constant occurrence in eighteen out of the twenty-five known species of Musophagidce of a definite organic pigment containing , as an essential constituent , about 7 per cent , of copper .
2 .
The " turacin-bearers " comprise all the known species of the three genera , Turacus , Gallirex , and while from all the species of the three remaining genera of ' the family Musophagidce , namely , Corythceola , Schizorhis , and turacin is absent .
Furthermore , the zoological arrangement of the genera constituting this family is in accord with that founded on the presence of turaein .
3 .
The spectrum of turacin in alkaline solution shows , besides the t'Wo dark absorption bands previously figured , a faint broad band on cither side of line IT , and extending from A. 496 to A 475 .
A The spectrum of isolated turacin in ammoniacal solution shows , besides the three bands already named , a narrow fourth band , lying 011 the less-refrangible side of line D , and extending from \ 605 to * ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 159 , pp. 627\#151 ; 636 .
400 Mr. Alex .
McAulay .
On [ Apr. 28 , X 589 It probably arises from the presence of traces of the green alteration-product of turacin formed during the preparation of that pigment in the isolated condition , an alteration-product which is likely to prove identical with Krukenberg 's turacoverdin .
5 .
Turacin in ammoniacal solution remains unchanged after the lapse of twenty-three years .
6 .
Turacin in the dry state , when suddenly and strongly heated , yields a volatile copper-containing red derivative , which , though nndissolved by weak ammonia-water , is not only soluble in , but may be crystallised from , ether .
7 .
Turacin in the dry state , when heated in a tube surrounded by the vapour of boiling mercury , becomes black , gives off no visible vapour , is rendered insoluble in alkaline liquids , and is so profoundly changed that it evolves no visible vapour when afterwards strongly heated .
8 .
The accurate analysis of turacin offers great difficulty .
The percentage composition , as deduced from those determinations which seem most trustworthy , is\#151 ; Carbon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 53'69 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4'60 Copper ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
7*01 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
6*96 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
27*74 # These numbers correspond closely with those demanded by the empirical formula C82H81Ca2N9032 , although the author lays no stress upon this expression .
9 .
Turacin presents some analogies with haematin , and yields , by solution in oil of vitriol , a coloured derivative , turacoporphyrin .
The spectra of this derivative , both in acid and alkaline solution , present striking resemblances to those of hsematoporphyrin , the corresponding derivative of hsematin .
But copper is present in the derivative of turacin , while iron is absent from its supposed analogue , the derivative of haematin .
III .
" On the Mathematical Theory of Electro-magnetism .
" By Alex .
McAulay , M.A. , Ormond College , Melbourne .
Communicated by the Rev. N. M. Ferrers , D.D. , F.R.S. Received January 8 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) It will conduce to clearness to give some account here of the objects and aims of what is to follow .
The part of the paper succeeding this Introduction is in three main divisions : The groundwork

