238 List of Officers and Council .
[ Nov. 26 , fluid of a neutral or slightly acid reaction .
This distension of the stomach occurs in most but not in all cases .
The fluid is , I find , usually alkaline , sometimes both the mucous fluid in the stomach and the stomach-wall itself are strongly alkaline .
The fluid contains a small amount of pepsin .
Dextrin produces a similar but less distension of the stomach , the mucous fluid in this case is usually acid .
I may mention that digestion in the frog is delayed very greatly by peptone , and slightly by dextrin .
The stimulus set up by the fluid in the stomach may have something to do with the changes in the liver which follow injection of peptone or of dextrin .
But since the changes in the liver occur in the cases in which the injection causes little or no formation of fluid in the stomach , I attribute them in the main to the direct action of the substance injected .
This I am the more inclined to do since I find that both peptone and dextrin cause in a few hours an accumulation of glycogen* in the liver in summer-frogs .
November 26 , 1885 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election , was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; John Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. Secretaries.\#151 ; { Professor Michael Foster , M.A. , M.D. The Lord Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Professor Alexander William Williamson , LL. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Professor Robert B. Clifton , M.A. , Professor James Dewar , M.A. ; Professor William -Henry Flower , LL. D. ; Archibald Geikie , LL. D. ; Sir Joseph D. Hooker , K.C.S.I. ; Professor Thomas Henry Huxley , D.C.L. , LL. D. ; Admiral Sir A. Cooper Key , G.C.B. ; J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.A.S. ; Professor Henry N. Moseley , M.A. ; Professor Bartholomew Price , M.A. ; Reverend Professor Pritchard , D.D. , F.R.A.S. ; William James Russell , Ph. D. ; Professor J. S. Burdon Sanderson , LL. D. ; Professor * Seegen has shown that peptone increases the amount of sugar in the liver .
1885 .
] On the Fertilised Ovum of Arthur Schuster , Ph. D. ; Lieutenant-General R. Strachey , R.E. , C.S.I. ; General James Thomas Walker , C.B. Surgeon-Major James Edward Tierney Aitchison ( elected 1883 ) was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Fertilised Ovum and Formation of the Layers of the South African Peripatus .
" By Adam Sedgwick , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 18 , 1885 .
The Fertilised Ovum and its Nucleus .
The fertilised ovum of Peripatus capensis contains a central cavity traversed by a few strands of protoplasm .
The protoplasm lias a reticular or spongy structure , the reticulum being very close round the nucleus and much looser elsewhere .
The strands of the reticulum are composed of an apparently perfectly homogeneous protoplasm .
The nucleus is placed on one side of the ovum ; it is a large body which varies very considerably in shape and structure in different ova .
These variations no doubt represent different phases in the life-history of the nucleus .
It has been impossible for me with the small number ( ten ) of unsegmented ova at my disposal to determine their sequence .
The nucleus of the fertilised ovum is , however , so large and favourable for study that I have thought it worth while to describe three different stages in which I have seen it .
1 .
A spherical structure ( diameter , 0*04 mm. ) bounded by a membrane , which is slightly indented at one point , where it sends in a prolongation of itself , which passes through the nucleus to become continuous with the membrane of the opposite side .
The nucleus is made up of a fine spongework of very pale fibrils , which are continuous with the nuclear membrane and with the septum just mentioned .
In this spongework are a number of deeply-stainiug more or less spherical bodies .
The nuclear membrane and septum appear precisely similar in structure to the strands of the external protoplasmic reticulum , and the latter are continued directly into the former .
The pale nuclear reticulum is also similar to the extra-nuclear reticulum , differing only R VOL. xxxix .
240 Mr. A. Sedgwick .
On Fertilised [ Nov. 26 , in intensity of staining .
The deeply-staining bodies in the nucleus are , I think , placed in the strands of the pale reticulum ; but of this I am not certain .
This nucleus then consists of a simple spongework of protoplasm , differing only from the external protoplasm in the fact that the staining matter is aggregated into small masses and into the septum already mentioned .
The apparent nuclear membrane is simply part of the protoplasm at the junction of the modified ( nuclear ) and unmodified ( cell-substance ) part of the protoplasmic network , 2 .
A form closely resembling the above , except in the fact that the nuclear spongework is stained slightly , though not quite so deeply as some of the extra-nuclear protoplasm .
There are only two small deeply-staining masses , which are not so conspicuous as in the first form .
We may state the difference between these two nuclei thus : in the first form the chromatin of the nucleus is aggregated into a number of small masses , while in the second form the chromatin is diffused throughout the nuclear reticulum .
The word chromatin being used to denote the property which enables the protoplasm to take up and retain the staining matter .
The extra-nuclear protoplasmic threads possess this property , and may be said to possess chromatin , but it is in a diffused form , as in the second form of nucleus , 3 .
In the third form the nucleus is divided by a number of septa , radiating from its centre , into chambers .
The chambers are partially divided up into secondary chambers by prolongations of the septa .
The septa are continuous externally with the extra-nuclear protoplasmic reticulum .
It is impossible to speak of a distinct boundary of the nucleus in this form , and the substance of the nuclear septa , and their prolongations is exactly similar in appearance and staining properties to the strands of the surrounding protoplasmic network or spongework .
A number of chromatin masses occur in each chamber of this radiate nucleus\#151 ; they appear to lie in the offshoots of the septa into the chambers and in delicate expansions of these .
But it is impossible to determine exactly the relation of these chromatin globules to the protoplasmic network in the nucleus .
This form of nucleus is most interesting , because were it not for the chromatin masses the nucleus w'ould be quite undistinguishable from the surrounding protoplasm , except , perhaps , by the fact that the meshes of the netwoi*k ( i.e. , network as seen in section ) are rather larger than in the protoplasm immediately around the nucleus .
The most important , and at the same time most certain , of these observations on the nucleus of the fertilised ovum of Peripatus , is that the intra-nuclear and extra-nuclear reticulum are both continuous with the so-called nuclear membrane .
Ovum of the South African Peripatus .
1885 .
] -----v ---------------4 .
The last form I have to describe is the spindle form .
It was met with in an ovum of two segments .
The spindle is of enormous size ( distance between the poles 0-06 mm. ) .
The protoplasmic fibres composing it are absolutely the same in appearance as the rest of the cell protoplasm .
The chromatin is present in a very condensed form deeply staining ) as a number of bent rods at the equator of the spindle .
Around the poles of the spindle the protoplasmic reticulum is arranged in a radiate fashion .
The spindle appears not to be composed of simple fibres running from pole to pole , but of the ordinary reticulum , the meshes of which are very much elongated in a direction parallel to the long axis of the spindle .
The facts which are most clearly brought out by the above observations , and about which I have no doubt , are 1 .
The continuity of the nuclear reticulum with the extra-nuclear reticulum in form 3 ( and almost certainly in forms 1 and 2 ) .
2 .
The similarity in structure and continuity between the so-called fibres of the spindle in form 4 with the surrounding reticulum ; and the conclusion I have drawn from my observations is that the nucleus of the fertilised ovum of Peripatus differs from the cell protoplasm only in the manner in which the so-called chromatin contained in the protoplasmic meshwork ( both of nucleus and rest of ovum ) behaves .
In the nucleus it varies from a state of diffusion through the reticulum to a state in which it is condensed into the chromatin masses of form 1 .
In the subsequent stages of segmentation , the nucleus gradually becomes smaller until at the close of segmentation it has an oval form with a long diameter of 0'016 mm. It now presents the features described by Flemming and other observers in the nuclei of the salamander .
I have seen all through the development of Peripatus after segmentation most of the stages figured from the salamander .
During segmentation the nucleus generally has the third form above described : I have never seen it in a spherical , and only once in a spindle form .
I conclude that these forms if they occur are very rapidly passed through .
The Segmentation .
I have already described this in a general manner in my communication of May last , and with figures in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science " of July last .
I then stated that the endoderm cells were connected with each other by processes ( " Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. , " xxv , Plate 31 , fig. 8 ) .
I have now the following facts to add :\#151 ; 1 .
The so-called endoderm cells are at first without a distinct nucleus , they do not get a nucleus until just before the gastrula stage .
r 2 242 Mr. A. Sedgwick .
On Fertilised [ Nov. 26 , 2 .
All the cells of the ovum , ectodermal as well as endodermal , are connected together by a fine protoplasmic reticulum which is placed , as are also the cells , immediately beneath the egg membrane , and therefore around a central space .
Each ectoderm cell consists of a central nucleus around which is a close protoplasmic spongewofk , which at the outer parts of the so-called cell becomes'of a gradually looser nature until it runs into the spongework of the surrounding cells .
Each endoderm mass consists of a central denser spongework which gradually becomes looser towards the periphery of the mass until it is continued into a fine reticulum .
The endoderm masses are far apart from each other and are connected by this reticulum .
The continuity of the various cells of the segmenting ovum is primary and not secondary , i.e. , in the cleavage , the segments do not completely separate from one another .
But are we justified in speaking of cells at all sin this case ?
The fully segmented ovum is a syncytium , and there are not and have -not been at any stage cell limits .
I think the cleavage should be rather described not as segmentation , but a multiplication of the nucleus or centre of force which causes a corresponding readjustment in the density of the network at different parts of the ovum , but no break in continuity .
The Structure of the Gastrula .
The formation of the gastrula , which is at first solid , has been described in my first communication to the Society on this subject .
The endoderm masses at first , as I have already mentioned , have no nuclei .
Nuclei first appear in them during the progress of the epibole by which the gastrula is formed .
I have not been able to determine the origin of these nuclei .
They either arise de novo in the endoderm masses or migrate into the latter from the ectoderm .
The protoplasmic network at the centre of each endoderm mass is denser than at the periphery , but is without the chromatin granules , so characteristic of a nucleus .
But I have already described a stage of the nucleus in the fertilised unsegmented ovum in which the chromatin granules are almost entirely absent , and in which the network presents no essential difference from the surrounding network .
Again , another in which the nuclear network merges so gradually into the surrounding network , that it is impossible to point to any limit between them .
I therefore think it quite possible that this central denser protoplasm in the endoderm masses may give rise to the nucleus which subsequently appears .
But on the other hand I must distinctly state that this is only a possible view which may be borne in mind , but which cannot be accepted without the most overwhelming proof in the present state of our science .
The solid gastrula is a syncytium ; the ectodermal nuclei are 1885 .
] Ovum of the South African Peripatus .
arranged round the periphery of the ovum , while the endodermal nuclei are within .
The latter are characterised by their angular shape , and by never presenting the karyokinetic figures characteristic of the ectodermal nuclei .
The protoplasm of this syncytium is much vacuolated throughout , but the vacuoles are largest in the centre .
These central vacuoles unite and give rise ' to the gut cavity , which opens to the exterior through a point on the surface where the ectodermal nuclei have always been absent .
This opening is the blastopore^ The blastopore , until quite late in development , is traversed by protoplasmic strands , which anastomose with similar strands projecting from the protoplasm lining the large central vacuole or gut .
The gut of Peripatus arises , - therefore , as a vacuole in a multi-nucleated mass of protoplasm , and the gastrula of Peripatus is a multi-nucleated mass or syncytium , with absolute continuity of the protoplasm of all parts of the ovumThe Origin of the Mesoderm .
After the definite formation of the blastopore , an area of protoplasm , placed in the ectodermal layer of the syncytium , and characterised by possessing several nuclei less densely packed together than elsewhere , is- distinctly visible in the middle line of the ventral surface just behind the blastopore .
X cannot be certain of the exact number of the nuclei belonging to this area in the youngest embryo in which I observed it , as the limits of the area , are difficult to determine by inspection of transverse sections .
However that may be , the area has in transverse section very much the appearance of the pole cells of other forms , and is the structure described in my first paper as " some cells which cannot be definitely assigned , to the ectoderm or to the endoderm , at the hind end of the blastopore .
Its nuclei undergo division and give rise to the densely packed mass of nuclei of the primitive streak.* A part of it seems to persist for some time in the deeper parts of the primitive streak close to the endoderm : I have not yet succeeded in tracing the fate of this portion .
The nuclei of the primitive streak migrate forwards between the ectodermal and endodermal nuclei , and take up their position in the protoplasm intervening between the latter .
These rows of nuclei are the mesodermal bands .
They soon arrange themselves into groups around a central vacuole , and so give rise to the most conspicuous parts of the mesoblastic somites .
I leave the ovum for the present at the commencement of the formation of the somites , merely stating that it is still a syncytium .
* It is possible that some of the ectoderm nuclei adjoining this area may take part in the production of the primitive streak nuclei .
Mr. A. E. Shipley .
On the [ Nov. 26 , The facts above recorded are somewhat novel .
That they are facts so far as Peripatus capensis is concerned I have not the slightest doubt .
Whether or no they are applicable to other animals is another question .
If they are , the following considerations present themselves :\#151 ; ] .
Klein 's view of the continuity between the reticulum of the nucleus and the reticulum of the extra-nuclear protoplasm receives striking confirmation , 2 .
Metschnikoff 's and Lankester 's views as to the origin of the gastrula and its gut receives support .
3 .
Herbert Spencer 's view of the origin of the nervous system may perhaps not be so far from the mark as at first sight appeared .
4 .
The connexion between the nerve and muscles and sensory epithelial cells receives its morphological explanation , being due to a primitive continuity which has never been broken .
In fact the connexion between almost every kind of tissue cell is explicable as being the primitive condition .
5 .
There is no essential difference between ducts with perforated cells and ducts with so-called cellular walls ( inter- and intra-cellular ducts ) .
6 .
If the protoplasm of the body is really a syncytium , and the ovum until maturity in the ovary a part of that syncytium , the separation of the generative products does not differ essentially from the internal gemmation of a protozoon , and the inheritance by the offspring of peculiarities first appearing in the parent , though not explained , is rendered less .
mysterious , for the protoplasm of the whole body being continuous , changes in the molecular constitution of any part of it would naturally be expected to spread , in time , through the whole mass .
Shortly , these facts if generally applicable reduce the adult body to a syncytium\#151 ; to a multi-nucleated vacuolated protoplasmic mass , and embryonic development to a multiplication of nuclei and a specialization of tracts in this mass .
II .
" On the Formation of the Mesoblast , and the Persistence of the Blastopore in the Lamprey .
" By Arthur E. Shipley , B.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 29 , 1885 .
At the close of segmentation the egg of the Lamprey ( Petromyzon planeri ) forms a blastosphere .
Owing to the way in which the yolk is distributed , the segmentation cavity is rather eccentrically placed .
It is roofed in by several rows of small cells , while its floor is composed of a few very large cells much crowded with food yolk .
The

