The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" On the proportions of the prevailing Winds , the mean Tem ?
perature , and depth of Rain in the climate of London , computed through a cycle of eighteen years , or periods of the Moon 's Declina ?
tion .
" By Luke Howard , Esq. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
In this paper the author investigates the periodical variations of the winds , rain and temperature , corresponding to the conditions of the moon 's declination , in a manner similar to that he has already followed in the case of the barometrical variations , on a period of years extending from 1815 to 1832 inclusive .
Ineach case he gives tables of the average quantities for each week , at the middle of which the moon is in the equator , or else has either attained its maximum north or south declination .
He thus finds that a north-east wind is most promoted by the constant solar influence which causes it , when the moon is about the equator , going from north to south ; that a south-east wind , in like manner , prevails most when the moon is proceeding to acquire a southern declination ; that winds from the south and west blow more when the moon is in her mean degrees of declination , going either way , than with a full north or south declination ; and that a north-west wind , the common summer and fair weather wind of the climate , affects , in like manner , the mean declination , in either direction , in preference to the north or south , and most when the moon is coming north .
He finds the average annual depth of rain , falling in the neighbourhood of London , is 25*17 inches .
From his observations on the temperature , he deduces the following conclusions : ?
1 .
That the pressure of an atmospheric tide , which attends the approach of the moon to these latitudes , raises the mean temperature 0*35 of a degree .
2 .
That the rarefaction under the moon in north declination lowers the temperature 0*13 of a degree .
3 .
That the northerly swell following the moon as she recedes to the south further cools the air 0*18 of a degree .
4 .
That this cold continues while the moon is away south , reducing the mean temperature yet lower by 0*04 of a degree .

