440 Dr. G. Gore .
A Method of examining [ Mai* .
H , as it ascends through the hark , into a cylindrical bundle , in which in time , a medulla forms as before .
The author is inclined to believe that all these latter forms of bundles only supply short abortive lateral branches , which most probably supported Lepidostrobous fruits .
II " A Method of examining Rate of Chemical Change in Aqueous Solutions .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received January 11 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) This research supplies an outline of a method of examining chemical change , based upon the application of the " voltaic balance " to measuring the relative amounts of voltaic energy of electrolytes ( see * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , pp. 151 , 294 ) , and the rate of chemical change is indicated by alterations in amount of such energy .
The author gives an example of two liquids , viz. , a solution W equivalent proportions of potassic iodide atid chlorine , and one ot chloride of potassium and iodine , which , although having the same ultimate chemical composition , are greatly different ( vizM ^ 3176 ) in voltaic energy , and in a moderate degree different m colour .
The latter of these is a nearly stable liquid , and does not readily a ter in chemical composition at 13 ' C. , whilst the former is extremely \#171 ; -stable , continually losing voltaic energy , and becoming ar er colour at that temperature , until it nearly acquires the c emicWfcjBH position and properties of the other mixture .
From the results obtained it is concluded\#151 ; 1st , that the solution of equivalent proportions of potassic iodide and chlorine -composes spontaneously at 12 ' C. , with gradual formation o p ' chloride and liberation of iodine ; 2nd , that the change o c e composition is attended by considerable loss of voltaic .
^ 3rd , that more than six days are necessary to effect the comp ^ chemical change at that temperature ; and , 4th , that ter chemical change is much greater at the commencement o fogsic than towards its termination .
Further , that the solution o P ' ' | chloride and iodine increases slightly in energy during the m The influence of dilution , time , temperature , light , agita \#171 ; \gt ; * ^ mode of mixing upon the chemical change was examine .
\#166 ; found that the degree of dilation of the constituent hqui |arg\#169 ; ly potassic iodide and chlorine solution during the act of affected the amount of chemical change which occurred Ql ture , but with the solution of potassic chloride and iodine ^ be of the liquids had no such effect .
The effect of dilution appe 1889 .
] Rate of Chemical Change in Aqueous Solutions .
441 related to the degree of mobility and diffusibility of the particles , and is largely modified by the degree of stability of the mixture .
Temperature had great effect upon the solution of potassic iodide and chlorine .
Heating the liquid to about 100 ' C. during two minutes was attended by great loss of voltaic energy , considerable increase of colour , and about 99'8 per cent , of the mixture was changed into potassic chloride and free iodine ; the amount of change was as great as that which took place during 18 days at 12 ' 0 .
Similarly heating the solution of potassic chloride and iodine had but little effect ; it , however , slightly increased its voltaic energy and decreased its colour , and so far changed it into the other mixture ( ?
) .
Exposing the solution of potassic iodide and chlorine to diffused daylight during 18 dull winter days at about 12 ' C. did not appear to greatly alter the rate of chemical change , as shown by alterations of colour and of voltaic energy .
Light somewhat retarded the action .
Strong agitation during one minute of the freshly made solution appeared to slightly increase the amount of chemical change which occurred during mixture .
In making this solution the amount of chemical change which took place during mixing was about 5 per cent , more if the chlorine solution was added to the solution of iodide than if the order of addition was reversed .
The results of the experiments show that the solution of potassic iodide and chlorine was very unstable , highly -sensitive to rise- of temperature , had a great tendency to lose its voltaic energy , to change its chemical composition , and approach that of the other mixture ; that the solution of the latter was very much more stable , and much less sensitive to heat , but had a feeble tendency to absorb energy , to change its chemical composition , and approach that of the solution of potassic iodide and chlorine .
The effect , therefore , of heating both liquids was to produce two portions possessing similar chemical composition and properties , but much more nearly resembling the chloride an the iodide mixture , and consisting of about 023 part of potassic iodide , 74-49 of potassic chloride , 126'8 of iodine , and 0'0497 of chlorine .
he collective results show that the " voltaic balance " method may tl8e " detect changes of chemical composition of aqueous solu-an\lt ; t t ' measure the rate of such change going on in them , ough the method as described does not give the amount of change ^ C occurs during the mixing of the liquids , it gives the subsequent amounts of change with a reasonable degree of accuracy .
Its great ^vantage over the colorimetric method is that it is equally applicable 'nrless liquids ; it is much more sensitive and exact than either eas C'.'r^me^r^c or the thermochemical method ; and it is quick and J ' performance .
It is at present being used to detect and measure 442 Voltaic Energy of dissolved Chemical Compounds .
[ Mar. H , chemical changes produced by light in aqueous solutions .
The degree of freedom of an aqueous solution of chlorine from hydrochloric acid and of iodine from hydriodic acid was determined much more readily by means of the " voltaic balance " method than by ordinary chemical analysis .
Ill " Relative Amounts of Voltaic Energy of dissolved Chemical Compounds .
" By Gr .
Gore , F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) In this investigation the author has measured , by means of the " voltaic balance , " the amounts of relative voltaic energy or of chemical affinity for zinc , of nearly 250 aqueous solutions of dissolved chemical compounds , at ordinary atmospheric temperatures .
The substances include compounds of elements with elements ; elements with monobasic , bibasic , and tribasic acids ; acids of all these classes with each other ; elements with monobasic , bibasic , tribasic , and tetrabasic salts ; monobasic , bibasic , and tribasic acids with all these classes of salts ; and all these classes of salts with each other in great variety .
The method employed has been already described ( see 4 Roy .
boc .
Proc. , ' vol. 44 , pp. 181 , 294 ) , and he offers the results thus obtained as additional evidence in support of the conclusion , that " every electrolytic substance or mixture when dissolved in water unites chemically indefinite proportions by weight with every other such dissolved , provided no separation of substance occurs ; " and that " there may probably be discovered thousands of such compounds , whichj^B exist whilst in aqueous solution , and are decomposed on evaporating or crystallising their solutions .
" The present research has shown t e existence of nearly 250 .
^ The formulae of the compounds , together with the amounts energy , are arranged in the form of a table as a volta tension seiies electrolytes , commencing with 1 + 01 , which gives a plus 11001 + 11,686,507 , and ending with 2(H3N + KH0 ) + ( K2C03+Na2 * ' which gives a minus one of \#151 ; 959,817 .
The whole of the agree with the ordinary chemical equivalents of the substances .

