On the Length of the French Metre estimated in parts of the English Standard .
By Capt. Henry Kater , F.R.S. Read February 5 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 103 .
] One of the objects of the Committee of the Royal Society appointed for the purpose of determining the length of the seconds ' pendulum having been to compare the French Metre with the British Standard Measure , two metres were procured from Paris for that purpose ; one called the Metre ai Bouts , being a bar of platinum , of which the terminating planes are supposed to be parallel , and the distance between them the length of the metre ; the other termed the Metre cl Traits , consisting also of a bar of platinum , but upon which the length of the metre is shown by two very fine lines .
The latter was first examined , by placing it in contact with Sir George Shuckburgh 's standard scale ; their surfaces being in the same plane , and care being taken that their temperatures were alike .
The same micrometer microscopes employed in the pendulum experiments were used , and were brought alternately over the metre and over the scale .
It appeared from the mean result , properly corrected , of fourteen comparisons , the greatest difference between any one of which and the mean result is less than T , -- , ,yths of an inch , that the length of the Metre ai Traits , in inches of Sir George Shuckburgh 's scale , is 39'37076 inches .
The author next describes the means resorted to for ascertaining the length of the Metre ai Bouts ; which appears , from the results of four sets of experiments , each set consisting of five , the greatest difference between any one of which and the mean result is -y , T- , rth of an inch , to be 39-37081 inches of Sir George Shuckburgh 's standard .
After explaining the principles upon which the column in the tables entitled " Correction for Temperature " is constructed , Captain Kater remarks , that we may consider the mean derived from both metres , viz. 39 37079 inches of Sir George Shuckburgh 's scale , or 39137062 inches of Bird 's parliamentary standard , as the length of the French metre .

