m 18801 On Effects produced by an Induction Coil , fyc .
February 19 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. the Earl of Northbrook was admitted into the Society .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; I. " On some of the Effects produced by an Induction Coil with a De Meritens Magneto-Electric Machine/ ' By William Spottiswoode , D.C.L. , P.R.S. Received February 17,1880 .
In the " Philosophical Magazine " for November of last year I gave an account of a mode of exciting an induction coil by the direct application of one of M. de Meritens ' alternating machines , without the intervention of a contact-breaker or the use of a condenser .
The experiments of Professor Dewar on the arc furnished by the machine itself , on its spectrum , and on its behaviour in respect of electrolysis described before the Royal Society ( see " Proc. Roy .
Soc , " vol. xxx , p. 170 ) , have led me to think that an account of some of the peculiarities in the induced discharge , to which the machine gives rise , might be acceptable to the Society .
And , first , as regards the secondary discharge in air .
It was mentioned in the paper first quoted that the spark produced by this machine presented an unusually thick yellow flame , and that it was accompanied by a hissing noise different from that commonly heard with a coil excited by a battery .
As the machine gives alternate currents , the secondary discharge presents sparks of equal strength in both directions , and the general appearance to the eye is symmetrical in respect of both terminals .
The spark was observed in a revolving mirror , first in a vertical and secondly in a horizontal direction .
The discharge , although apparently continuous , was immediately seen to be intermittent , with a period in unison with that of the machine .
Tongues of flame , leading alternately from one terminal and from the other , crossed the field of view .
The length of spark first used ( vertically ) was about half an inch .
When the length was increased to about two inches , the discharge being vertical , flashes or bands of continuous light were seen to traverse the field of view in diagonals of low slope ( i.e. , nearly horizontally ) , showing that there were masses of heated matter passing 174 Mr. W. Spottiswoode .
On Effects produced by [ Feb. 19 , from time to time at moderate velocity between the terminals .
From the known period of the machine , and the number of the discharges crossed by these flashes in their passage from terminal to terminal , it was calculated that the time of passage was about '03 of a second Occasionally there was a still brighter flash or meteor , which similarly traversed the field , but with a velocity apparently of about double that of the others .
When the discharge was set horizontally , similar phenomena were seen ; but at a distance about midway between the two terminals , the flames appeared to meet , and at their point of meeting they showed continuous luminosity throughout .
When the flame was blown aside , theie appeared occasionally , and at rather long intervals , the true spark , evinced by an irregular bright line , reaching from one terminal to the other .
On observing the discharge in air attentively , it was noticed that whenever a true spark passed vertically its passage was marked , as usual , by an irregular bright line when its path was outside the aureola or flame , but by a similar dark line when its path was within the aureola .
With reference to this phenomenon , it may he observed , in the first place , that in every coil discharge the true spark is always anterior to the aureola , which , in fact , immediately follows it .
The true spark of each discharge taken by itself will , therefore , always appear as a bright line .
It , however , sometimes happens , as mentioned above , that in the succession of discharges produced by the present method , the flame or aureola of one discharge lasts , at least over part of its length , until the next takes place .
Wlien this is the case , the spark of the succeeding discharge will pass partly through air , as usual , and partly through the flame which has lasted over from the preceding discharge .
This part of its path will be through a conductor , which may be so far better than the air , as to allow the spark to pass in a non-luminous condition .
The phenomenon noticed by Mr. De La Rue , viz. , the sudden expansion of a gas at the instant of the passage of an electric discharge through it , may then take place , and the displacement of the flaming gas over that part of the path may give rise to the appearance of the dark line within the area of the aureola .
The remaining part of the path , if any , will be bright .
It is , however , further to be noticed that the true spark , or those portions of it which are bright , always appears to lie outside , and never within , the aureola .
This may arise from the fact that on the extinction of a flame the portions of space immediately outside are for the moment the hottest and most conductive , and that the next spark will consequently choose a path really outside the contour of the flame just extinguished .
And as the successive flames do not differ materially in size or shape , the bright spark will appear always to lie outside the flame .
1880 .
] on Induction Coil with a Be Meritens Machine .
175 The spectrum of the secondary spark was then examined with [ terminals of various metals .
Aluminium.\#151 ; The spectrum showed a faint continuous background with the yellow sodium lines , and faint oxide of aluminium lines .
This was with a spark of half an inch .
But although the spark was [ subsequently lengthened , no difference in the spectrum was perceived Excepting that the continuous background was rendered more 1 bright .
_ It would seem that these appearances are due to some such process as the following:\#151 ; The heat due to oxidation , added to that of the discharge , is sufficient to volatilise the oxide of aluminium ; but that in i its passage across the interval between the terminals , the oxide becomes so cooled that it gives a continuous spectrum .
When the spark was lengthened , the oxide , although perhaps at first more heated than with the shorter spark , had more time to cool .
Magnesium.\#151 ; In this , as in the former case , we have a faint continuous spectrum as a background , on which were seen the b group of | magnesium lines .
One other line in the blue occasionally flashed out , but was not permanently present .
There was also a faint trace of the | oxide spectrum .
The contrast between the cases of aluminium and I magnesium , in respect of the prominence of the oxide , or of the true metallic spectrum , is doubtless due to the fact that in the former case the oxide , and in the latter the metal , is the one which is more easily vaporised .
On sending a blast of air on the discharge , the blue line always disappeared ; the current of air having lowered the temperature so far as to prevent the vaporisation necessary for its production .
When the spark between magnesium terminals was made to pass through hydrogen , the characteristic lines of hydrogen were seen , apparently owing to a rise in temperature .
This , as mentioned below , does not occur with carbon poles .
Platinum.\#151 ; With terminals of this metal the spectrum was mainly continuous , with the addition of the ubiquitous yellow sodium lines .
| When the spark was short a few bands were faintly visible , some apparently those of nitrogen , and others in the blue and violet belong-t ing to the oxide of platinum .
W^hen the spark was lengthened , these bands disappeared , and nothing but the continuous spectrum ( with the I D lines ) was visible .
It appears from these experiments that the application of the S de Meritens machine to the induction coil furnishes us with the I means of isolating certain lines of the-metallic spectrum from the rest .
It has , in fact , enabled us to reduce at pleasure the spectra of aluminium , \gt ; of magnesium , and of platinum , to their most persistent lines ; precisely I as had already been noticed as occurring by natural processes in the 1 cases of sodium and of calcium .
As a general rule , when the spark is \gt ; ) shortened , the metallic , or the oxide , lines come out , according as the 176 Mr. W. Spottiswoode .
On Effects produced by [ Feb. 19 one or the other is more easily vaporised ; and when it is lengthened they disappear .
From this we may conclude ( 1 ) that the discharge which we have been examining , is a real flame with metallic particles passing between the terminals in a solid condition ; and ( 2 ) that in general the tempe i rature is comparatively low , i.e. , that it is insufficient to cause any considerable vaporisation .
This is notably the case when the arc is long and when the matter thrown off from the terminals has sufficient time in its passage to cool .
The spark was then tried between carbon terminals in atmospheres of hydrogen and of carbonic acid .
In none of them did the spectrum show any gas lines ; but with hydrogen there were faint traces of the hydrocarbon group in the green .
In this respect the spark differs from the discharge direct from the machine , inasmuch as the latter gives some of the hydrogen lines in hydrogen and carbon lines in carbonic acid .
When magnesium terminals were used in an atmosphere of hydrogen , the yellow sodium lines , the blue and green magnesium lines , and the red line of hydrogen were visible near the terminals , with a continuous background.* When the spark was discharged in a magnetic field , known phenomena were reproduced , but owing to the thickness and mass of the flame and the extraordinary strength of the magnetic field , they were exhibited in a state of great splendour , f When the spark passed in an equatoreal direction the whole flame was spread out in an equatoreal plane , in which heated masses might be seen revolving in one direction or in the other in the neighbourhood of each of the magnetic poles .
To give some idea of the actual appearance , it may be mentioned , that a symmetrical spindle-shaped discharge , 15 millims. in length and 3 millims. in thickness , was spread out by the magnet into a disk of about 15 millims. in diameter and 1 millim. in thickness .
When the spark passed in an axial j direction , or when the poles themselves were made the terminals , the phenomena described in my paper u On an Experiment in Electro-Magnetic Rotation99 ( u Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxiv , p , 403 ) were reproduced .
Whatever was the direction of the spark , the resistance due to the S magnetic field was such as to extinguish the discharge , provided that -1 * When the same discharge was effected in a magnetic field , the only change ob- j served was that the lines became slightly fainter .
There was some reason to think that , at the moment of making the magnet current , the lines became decidedly j brighter , and that they lost their brilliancy if that current was maintained .
But ] this , perhaps , requires further examination .
+ Through the kindness of the authorities of the Royal Institution , Faraday 's ' great electro-magnet , excited by the Siemens machine , was placed at my disposal .
|l880\gt ; j an Induction Coil with a Be Meritens Machine .
T L Btriking distance was near the limit that it could attain when no r etic field was present .
If a plate of glass was interposed , between the poles of the magnet ( which were still used as terminals ) |he yellow flame disappeared , and the spark divided itself into Numerous ramifications of true sparks which found their way round ihe edges of the plate .
As soon as the magnet was excited the Usistance in the field became so great as to exceed that of the glass jplate itself , and the plate was pierced .
Professor Dewar was good enough , to measure the efficiency of the secondary discharge , by taking an inch spark in a glass bulb placed in ihe centre of a calorimeter , in the same way as he had already measured the efficiency of the intermittent current direct from the machine .
The former amounted to about 430 gramme-units per minute , while the latter had been found to be 6,000 per minute. .
The relative efficiency may , therefore , be taken at about 1:15 .
And ias the machine was giving about 300 currents per second , this would give for the secondary 430 : 60 X 300='023 unit per discharge , !
and for the primary 6000 : 60 X 300='3 unit per discharge . .
The results in the case of the secondary discharge may not perhaps-possess any great degree of accuracy ; but , in the absence of any other information on the question , they may serve to indicate the general scale of magnitude by which the coil discharge is related to that of ; the machine .
Leaving the subject of the spark from the induction coil , one of the most remarkable effects produced by this machine was the illumination of vacuum tubes by the currents taken simply from the machine .
A small sphere of about two inches in diameter , with an air-vacuumr and having two parallel straight terminals reaching nearly across the sphere and about half an inch apart , was ( after the first attempt , when there was some difficulty in getting the discharge to pass ) ?
readily illuminated .
Owing to the alternate currents , both terminals were of course surrounded with the usual blue halo .
When the speed of the machine was reduced , the discharge through the tube was not 'maintained , showing that only that part of the current from the machine which possessed the highest electromotive force , and perhaps also the greatest strength , was sufficient and was therefore actually used for the purpose .
As this was apparently only a small fraction of the whole current , we may herein find an explanation of the fact that , compared with the effect from the induction spark , the illumination was moderate , and the heating insignificant .
It would perhaps* not be easy to establish an accurate comparison between this and other sources of electricity ; but some idea may be conveyed by the fact Messrs. J. B. Hannay and J. Hogarth .
PH .
at _ ' Li'eb.2 that , from experiments made with this tube with M chloride of silver battery on a former occasion , and quite** ' of the present question , it was estimated that a car m ?
ependent electromotive force of 400 volts woo _j rent aavi UJ- \#153 ; quesmon , ic was estimated that a curreu* 1 ; endei % electromotive force of 400 volts was necessary to effect a d Other tubes were tried , and were illuminated in thp 1Schar8e-When the tube was placed in the ma , cmpfir .
j When the tube was placed in the magnetic field underwent the modifications described by Pliicker by IT+t .others .
But it may be mentioned as a result of tha I , rf , aildV strength of the field here employed that , whenever the t ^"^ direetirm nf lIMSfflBMI\#151 ; " _ .
ube 'was gn placed that the direction \#171 ; !
'""\#171 ; with the lines of magnetic force passing through it the di .
t , 6 ^ completely extinguished .
When the tabe \#166 ; removed part of the field , the discharge reappeared distorted in fo j^ altered m colour , m a manner known to those who have in this direction .
ave exPer\#171 ; nented February 26 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
forTthemreSentS r6Ceived Were laid on the table , and thanks ordered The following Papers were read .-_ F.R sites'31I G'ases* " By J. B. Hannay , cated t *29ann RBIHogarth , F.C.S. ML , Received February 14 ' , LLJ)- Sec- RS ' Royal Society , and'of JlfichTnrer6 4116 ton'Ur of aobmitting to the Society 's Proceedings * wa* B _ immary notice was published in the some further lie*ht nnL i , 1 the view of throwing Of matter .
In his famou^ Andrews calls the \#171 ; critical state " cussion of the question D a a ei^ai1 le'ture , after a very careful disand under a pressure f inePi Says :t " Carbonic acid at 35-5 ' C , between the gas and th r .
_ .
atnaospheres , stands nearly midway assigning it to the on a / lqmd ' and We have no valid grounds foi one form ol matter ^ ^ ^ t K^ .
+ " PM tv !
J S'0''"H sxil ' P- 324- .
-fbil .
Trans. , " 1869 , p. 588 .

