Experiments to determine the Difference in the Length of the Seconds Pendulum in London and in Paris .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Artillery , Secretary of the Royal Society .
Communicated by Thomas Young , M.D. , Foreign Secretary to the Royal Society , and Secretary to the Board of Longitude .
Read November 1.5 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 35 .
] The author commences this paper by a brief statement of the existing state of the determinations of standards of length in the two countries ; and he observes an attempt made by M. Arago in 1817 and 1818 , to bring into immediate comparison the standards of the two countries , proved inconclusive from the rates of the pendulums not having been obtained with sufficient exactness .
The author having obtained from His Grace the Master-general of the Ordnance a general leave of absence from his military duties so long as he could be usefully employed in scientific pursuits , conceived he could no way satisfy the condition better than in carrying into effect this purpose .
Accordingly , being provided with two pendulums , one made for M. Schumacher , another the property of the Board of Longitude , he set out for Paris , whither the pendulums were forwarded to him .
The comparison was made in Paris at the Royal Observatory , in the Salle de la Meridienne , on the spot in which M. Biot 's measurement had been made , and every proper facility and assistance afforded him .
The coincidence-clock was compared every 12 " ' by M. Mathieu with the transit-clock of the Observatory .
On the 27th of April , the weather having set in mild and steady , the experiments were begun .
The results are stated in the form of appended tables , of which a detailed account is given .
Table I. contains the daily rate of the clock used for the coincidences .
Table II .
contains the particulars of thirteen distinct determinations of the rate of the pendulum No. 8 .
; four by M. Mathieu ; four by M. Nicollet ; three by the author ; one by Messrs. Nicollet and Savary conjointly ; and one by M. Savary and the author .
They are corrected as usual .
Table III .
contains the results of thirteen similar determinations of the rate of the pendulum No. 7 , in which the author was also assisted by Messrs. Freycinet and Duperrey .
Each of the pendulums , when not used in observing coincidences , was employed in determining its rate by a journeyman-clock or counter , -a method used by Messrs. Freycinet and Duperrey , but which the author thinks inferior to that of coincidences , though capable of giving good results .
The particulars of these are given in Tables IV .
and V. From all these experiments in conjunction , it appears that the numbers of vibrations performed in a mean solar day at Paris ( reduced as usual ) by the two pendulums , were respectively 85922*06 and 85933-83 .
The pendulums and apparatus were re-conveyed to London early in September by water , and the rates again determined at Mr. Browne 's house in Portland Place , by means of that gentleman 's excellent clocks , and transit observations made by Captain Sabine .
The precautions used are fully detailed , and the observations , which are also appended in a tabular form in Tables III , VII , VIII , IX , X , XI , the author being assisted by M. Quetelet , of Brussels .
They give as a final result 85933,29 and 85945-85 for the numbers of vibrations respectively , made by each in a mean solar day , similarly reduced for London .
As a final result of the whole operation , the author regards 12-00 as the acceleration of the seconds pendulum in passing from Paris to London .
The same acceleration deduced from a comparison of M. Biot 's and Captain Kater 's direct measurements of the seconds pendulum , in Paris and in London , comes out 117 6 , or , conversely , the length of the seconds pendulum observed by the former in London transferred to Paris by an assumed retardation of 123 , gives a length differing from M. Biot 's by 0-00023 .
Borda 's agrees within 0-00079 with M. Biot 's , and Captain Kater 's , so transferred , holds very nearly a mean between the two , but approaches rather nearer to Biot 's than to Borda 's .

