An Extract of a Letter lately written by Mr. S. Colepresse , from Leiden , to the Publisher , about the making of counterfeited Opal , and the Recovery of the Art of making Red-glass .
SIR , You may perchance remember , that some time since , there was a discourse at London of a certain pot of Glass-mettal , which brake in the Glass-house at Woolidge ; in the bottom of which was found a quantity of Opal-glass .
And although the very persons , who had compounded it , endeavoured to repeat that accidental Experiment , yet they could never bring it to pass , as I was informed by a person concerned in it .
The last week I was two days at Harlem on purpose to see the Experiment of the making of this counterseited Opal-glass which is there done by Rule .
It is very lively , I consess , and as I guess , performed only by the degrees of heat , producing the Colors ; of which de grees I have by me several , I took notice of , with some curiosity , in the operation .
When the Composition is thoroughly melted , they take out some on the point of an Iron-rod , which being cooled either in the Air or Water , is colourless and pellucid ; but being put into the mouth of the furnace on the same rod , and there turned by the hand for a little space , hath its little bodies so variously posited in several parts of the same piece , as that the light falling on them , being variously modified thereby , represents those several Colours , that are seen in the true Opal .
Whether it be the greatest , or least degree of heat , that renders it a white opaque Body , I have let slip ; but this I know , ( which seems remarkable ) that the colours of it may be destroyed and restored , according to the various motions ( I suppose ) of its particles by heat .
They also make there the Amethyst and Sapphire ; and have recovered the hundred years loss of incorporating Red-glass ; and have some mettal , that is esteemed to equal Crystal in hardness as well as colour .
To give you an account of their Mill to grind , and Engins to polish Looking-glasses , will be needless : I only add , that they can diamond or square their looking-glasses in their

