: 2g 2 II .
Miscellaneous Obserzzationse By Willi--:a--m Herschels : LL. D. F.JR .
S. Read Decelnber 22n 1 791 .
Account of a C01neZ .
1XAST : Thursday evening , the th of December , about half after eight ovclock , while I vas taken up with observing Saturtl , my sist ; er loolied over the heavens , and discovered a pretty large , telescopic COlZlet , in the breast of Lacerta I viewed it in my seven-feet reflector , and with that instrument settled its place and rate of moving .
At 9h 42/ 4'-',8 true mean time , it preced-ed a small telescopic star l-tt93 in time , and was 2 ' 41 " ... sout-h of the same .
TIat-place of this star I have since determined with sufficient accuracy , that it may be found again by those who wish to settle it more exactly .
It follows the 2d of FLAMSTEED S stars itl the colastellation of Lacerta , 1 ' +1 " , G in tirrle ; allct is XS ' 4 , o",8 more south than the same .
The apparent motion of the comet otl Thursday evetling was direct , and at the rate of about three luinutes of time in right ascellsion , and a little more than two degrees itl polar distance per day ; from which we rllay suppose that Bre shall keep it some time in viEWo ' lLast xligYnt I examimed it with a tvvrenty-feet re2ector , and found it to consist of a great light , pretty regRearly scattered about acondensed small part of five or six seconds iil diameter ; which resembled a kitld ei : nucleus , but had not the least appearance of a solid body .
Besicie the scattered , and graduallat diminishing light which reached nearly to a distance of three minutes every way beyond the bright centre , there was also a faintly extended , ill defineds pretty broctd ray , of al3out lS minutes in length , directed towards the n-orth following part of the heaven , which nzight be callect the tail of the comet .
Its -place for the same night ( Dec 16th ) was determined by a five-feet Newtonian SweeSer carrying an equilateral triangle in the focus of the eye-glass , not so large but that the three intersections , made by the wires at the three angles , may be distinctly perceived .
At tSh 49t 4ot 'd it preceded the 6th Lacerta 4r*S8"nS in time and was 521 14 ' &gt; more north than that star .
On the periodical Appearartce of o Ceti .
The changeable star itl the neck of the Whale , o Ceti , con tinues its rrariations as usualn but with some considerable irregularities of brightness In the year 17799 as n/ e have seenX , it excelled os Arietis so far as almost to rival Aldebaratz ; and colltitlued in that state a full lnonLth .
Irl l780 its greatest brightness was only like that of S Ceti .
In the year 178In it did not come up to the brightness of R. In 1 ; 78g , this star itlcreased to the size of n Ceti , and continued bright for more than twenty days .
In 178g , it did not only vanish to the naked eyen as usllal but dlisappeared-so colmpletely9 that I could not find it with a telescopei , which permitted not a star of the O+th lmaglaitude to escape me.\Vhen it increased again , it did 1z0t amoulat to the briglatness of S In z784 , I saw it only of the 8tEL 1nagnitude in a twentyfieet reflector , but as I dld not continue to observe it regularly it might possibly change as usual .
In 1789 , it arrived to the brighttless of oc Pisciu1z1 , or rather excelled it .
In 1790 , the greatest brightness was almost equal to that of a Ceti .
In the present year , I have se@n it only of the magnitude of y Ceti nearly ; or-between y and ?
; but , as bad weather has oc casioned many interruptions , it may possibly have been larger .
The period of SSS days , assigned by BOUILLAUD , does not agree with present observations compared to those of FABRICIUS made on the th of Augustn 1z596 , when this 5tAr W8S i11 its greatest lustre .
M. CASSINI also found , that his observations , in the begll1ning of August , 170g , when the star was brightest , did not agree with the interval of gg days ; and therefore supposing the star to have charlged 1I7 times since the epoch of FABRICIUS , he gave it a periocI of 3S\#171 ; days .
This will however , ot agree with the pr-esent time of the changes ; and it appears now that M. CASSINI ought to have assumed 118 instead of 1 o7 variations ; which would have pointed otlt a period of g days , and some hours .
That thisiis , probably , verynear the real time of the star 's variation , will be seen wherz vVte admit it to have undergone 214 changes between the th of August , ] Gg6 , and the 2 1st of October , 1790 ; by which long interval ur obtaira the perio(l of 33o days , lo llours 19 minutes .
It will indeed , be necessary in order to reconcile all observations to z admit of some occasional deviations ill the appearance of the star , amounting almost to a month ; but that this is tlo more than we may allow , is pretty evident frozn the variations I have taken rstice of within the last 14 , years ; besides , a period of g4 days could not be admitted wichout totally givingP up all regularity in the returning appearance of the star .
I have taken the epoch of the 2tst of October , o79 's as o of the lest ascertained , moderate appearances I have been able to obtain ; and believe it to be more proper for settling the period than that which might be deduced from a brllliant blaze of the star such as took place in 779 owing to causes that are ot regular , and therefore may be apprehended to ( listurb the g-elleral order of the changeZ On the Disappearan\#162 ; e of the th Herculis .
Among the changes that happen ila the siciereal heavens we enurxwerate the loss of stars ; but , notwithstanding the real destruction of an heavenly body may not be impossible we have some reasons to th-ink that the disappearance of a star is probably owing to causes which are of the same laature with fllose that act-upon periodical-stars ssthen they occasion their temporary occultations .
This suhjectn however belng of great extent and conse6quence ) we shall not enter into it at presents but only relate a recent instance of the kind .
Two stars of the th magnitude whose places sre find inserted in all our best catalogues , vzere to be seen ill the neck of Hercules .
They are the 54th and , gth of FT AMSTEED'S , in that constellation .
In the year 781 ) the oth of OctoberX I examined them both , and marked down their colour ) red .
lChe zzth of April , 1 j782 , I lc3cakedoat them again , and noted my having seen them distinctly , with a poNver of 460 ; and that they snere single stars .
The 24th of last May ) I tnissed one of the two , and examining the spot again the 2tSth , and many times -aft-erw ?
ards , found that one of them was not to be seen .
The situation of the stars is such that , not having fixed instruments , I could not well determiile which of the two vwras the lost one .
1I therefore requested the favour of 1ny much esteemed friend , the astronomer royal , to ascertain the remaining star ; and it appears from Dr. 1 !
#IASKELYNE'S answer to my letter that the stl Herculis is the one which we have lost .
Remctrkable Phnon ?
ena in cttl Eclipse of the AIoon .
The 22d of Octobers oygos when the moon was totally eclipsed , I viented the disk of it with a tenty-feet reflector carrying a lmagnifying povwrer of:360 .
In several -parts of it I pervceived many bright , red , luminous points .
Most of them were small and round .
The brightness of the moon , notwithstanding the great defilcation of light occasioned by the eclipse , wtould not permit me to view it long enough to take the places of these points .
They were , itldeed , very nulue- &lt; rous ; as I suppose that I saw , at least , one hundred and fifty of thems Their light did not much exceed t}aat of Mons Porphyrites HEVELII We know too little of the surface of the mooll to venture at a surmise of the cause from whence the great brightness , simi larity , and rernarkable colour of these points could arxse Sloughn Dec e171 79 i1 e 1\#163 ; s !
3

