]\gt ; one of us pointed out ( p. 1208 ) that\mdash ; " " Two optically active , chemically indifferent bodies of opposite rotatory power , having rotatory dispersive potvers , if mixed in certain proportions , would ( as Biot has shown for a solution of dextrorotatory camphor in laevorotatory turpentine oil ) exhibit phenomena similar to those manifested by tartaric acid solutions ; hence the most ] probable explanation of the anomalous rotatory dispersive power of solutions of tartaric acid would appear to be that they contain , besides the acid , a compound of opposite rotatory power of the acid with water , in proportions varying according to the concen- ) tration and ature of the solutions But that this explanation was not regarded as altogether satisfactory is apparent from a sentence written at about the same time which appears in the edition of Miller 's 'Elements of Chemistry , ' Part III , " " Organic Chemistry\ldquo ; ( p. 992 ) , published in 1880:\mdash ; " " The anomalous rotatory dispersive power of aqueous solutions of tartaric acid almost necessitates the assumption that the acid forms a compound with water opposite to itself in rotatory power ; the formation of a body having a reversed rotatory power as ompared with that of the parent substance from a compound like dextrotartaric acid , whidh , according to Hoffs hypothesis , has the constitution , is composed of two similar dextrorotatory groups\mdash ; is , however , not easy to understand In those days , of course , our knowledge of structure was far less developed !
than is now the case .
Meanwhile , notwithstanding the attention devoted to ; the study of optically active substances since the introduction of Va n't Hoff 's 'Ann .
Chim Phys 1868 , ( 3 ) , vol. 64 , p. 415 .
light of other degrees of refrangibility .
T. M. Lowry has since improved the method and by the use of photography has extended it so that the measurements can now be made without difficulty not only in the visible but also throughout the ultra-violet region ; this work , it may be added , was undertaken mainly in consequence of the suggestion made to him by one of , us several years ago that it was desirable to reinvestigate the subject of anomalous rotatory dispersion from the point of view of Biot 's suggestion . .
The method has been in use during several years past in our laboratory and in that of Prof. Pope .
It is safe to say that it is no longer legitimate to confine the measurements : of rotatory power to yellow light .
It is remarkable that so little attention should have been paid to rotatory dispersive power and to the anomalous behaviour of some substances .
Walden , his comprehenslve survey of the of actlvlty , the lecture he delivered to the German Chemical Society in mentions almost casually the abnormal behaviour of tartrates without reference to Biot 's explanation and this has been disregarded also by Frankland , Patterson and other recent workers , even by Winther , who has discussed change in rotatory power particularly in relation to the changes in the " " solution-volume\ldquo ; and the " " internal pressure\ldquo ; of solutions .
S Winther , following Biot , considers that abnormalities in dispersive power are due to the presence of forms ering in rof , atory power but supposes that these are complex molecules and compounds of solute and solvent .
The effect of solvenbs on the rotatory power of certain tartrates has been made the subject of most exhaustive study during the past 12 years by T. S. Patterson , who , in a series of 20.communications to the Chemical Society , has shown that different liquids produce extraordinarily different effects in changing the rotatory power especially of tartrates .
He has summarised the results which he and others have obtained *Compare Frankland , Presidential Address , 'Chem .
Soc. Trans 1912 , p. 654 .
PhiL Trans 1912 , , vol. 212 , p. 261 .
'Berichte , ' pp. 366-408 .
S 'Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. 60 , pp. 663 , 590 , 641 , 766 .
An attempt to harmonise qualitatively the relations between temperature and rotation for light of all refrangibilities of certain active substances both in the homogeneous state and in solution , ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1913 , p. 146 .
rotating with the angular velocity of the earth but in the opposite direction .
with tdata.heory tropose aheir obeyondregions otmosphere.urther donfirm trise fconductivity oerwhich wccount froceed tecondterms , atter txpress tegard tconductivity required ivery cature We have thus formed a simple specification of the .
terms which seem to fit -composition diagrams .
Fructose.\mdash ; Passing from ideal cases to actual facts , the case of fructose may now be considered .
There is every reason to suppose that this compound is present in solution in two isodynamic forms and it has been shown in Part XXVI of these studies that the proportions in which these are presumably present in equilibrium may be altered to a considerable extenl by the addition of alcohol or other substances .
In order to determine under which of the above four cases fructose comes , a solution was made up containing two molecular proportions of fructose and 100 molecular propor .
tions of water and the rotatory power of this solution was determined using the light of the yellow , green and blue lines emitted by a mercury vapour lamp .
Various quantities of alcohol ( .taining per cent. water ) were then added and the specific rotatory powers determined as before .
The results are given in Table II .
It will be noticed that the values given in the last two columns represent ing the dispersion are practically constant , except in the most dilute solution in which the experimental error is large .
The values for blue light cannot be regarded as so nearly accurate as those for yellow and green ; on account of the spectroscope being in the eye-piece of the polurimeter , the flood of yellow and green light is so great that when the rotation is considerable the blue is obscured .
Therefore in the case of solutions 1 and 2 , a blue filter was used to cut out the yellow and green bands ; this rendered the blue fainter also . .
If the assumption be made that the composition of the mixture studied is S a linear function of the specific rotatory power in the case of a given coloured ' light , all the points representing the specific rotatory power in other colours : should fall on straight lines when placed on the appropriate ordinates ; the abscissae should then represent the composition to an unknown scale .
Tot construct the diagram characteristic of a substance , a reference line is drawn with a slope of unity and on this are plotted the various specific rotations of light of any one of the refrangibihties observed .
The points for other refrangibilities are then plotted on the ordinates passing through the points previously located on the reference line .
The observations may be those made either at different temperatures or in different solvents or at different concentrations .
It is proposed to call the portion of the rotation-composition diagram in the manner described the Characterutic Diagram , as it shows under which of the cases discussed on p. substance comes .
When the characteristic diagram of fructose ( fig. 2 ) is drawn from the data given in Table II , it is clear that this sugar comes under Case III and that it is to be supposed therefore that the two isodynamic forms have the persion vited shows tubstance i as coming under Case .
The slope of the lines is no longer a measure of the dispersion ss it is in the case of fructose but gives what is practically identical with Winther 's " " solution dispersion coefficient.\ldquo ; * The value of this coefficient calculated from the various pairs of solutions is ' remarkably constant in comparison with the apparently irregular variation : of the dispersion coefficient ( cp .
Tables I and ) .
Table * Winther ( ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. 41 , p. 207 ) has shown that the increase in the rotatory power of the ethereal salts of tartaric acid can be represented as a parabolic function of the temperature .
If and are the values of for light of two different wave lengths , then Winther called the ratio the rational dispersion coefficient ; this was shown to be to a large extent independent of the concentration and the solvents .
Subsequently , he vol. 45 , p. 373 ) used what he termed the " " solution-dispersion coetiicien ; this was calculated from the expression:\mdash ; wbre and are the changes in rotatory power of light of two different wave lengths occasioned by a given change in concentration .
( The " " rational dispersion coefficient\ldquo ; was determined from a similar expression when the constants of the parabolic equation were not known .
) It is clear that this latter ratio is identical with the ratio of the slopes of the lines of the characteristic diagram ; in fact the slope of these lines represents this quantity The characteristic diagram ( fig. 4 ) drawn from these data shows that methylic tartrate also comes under Case .
The comparatively low values at which the lines cross is probably an indication that there is considerably less difference between the magnitude of the dispersion of the two forms than in the case of the quinaldine derivative and probably also a correspondingly smaller difference in constitution .
A point of great significance in this diagram is the fact that the values for the ethereal salt alone at various temperatures lie practically on the ] projection of these curves , the whole forming one complete diagram .
These values were deduced from Winther 's data*by graphic interpolation from the dispersion curves ; the values so obtained are given in Table directly when the line of unit slope is chosen as denominator .
It therefore appear $ desirable to designate the ratio:\mdash ; : by a single term , whether the change in equihbrium be caused by an alteration either in : temperature or in concentration or solvent ; for this purpose the term " " rational dispor sion coefficient\ldquo ; might well be retained .
*Op .
cit. , vol. 41 , p. 17 ' .
1913 .
Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions . .
4.\mdash ; Equilibrium varied by the addition of FI 5.\mdash ; Ethylic tartrate .
Equilibrium alcohol to the aqueous solution and by heating varied by change of solvent and con the original substances .
centration at constant temperature20o C. Table Ethylic Tartrate.\mdash ; Fortunately Winther has supplied very complete data for this substance .
* The characteristic diagram is given in fig. 5 ; some of points have been omitted , as they come so close ether .
Excepting those for solutions in water , the values all lie very close indeed to straight lines .
The solution in benzeme ( not included ) also appears to afford slightly exceptional values .
2-Nitrotoluene-4-sulphonyltetrahydroquinaldine.\mdash ; The characteristic diagrams *Op .
, vol. 60 , p. 582 .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\mdash ; A. 2 Being quinonoid , the second of these would doubtless be the more dispersive .
Passing to tartaric acid , we have to account for the fact that the rotatory power of the acid and of its ethereal salts is more or less affected by variation in the temperature ; morever , that not only water but also " " neutral\ldquo ; solvents modifythisrotatorypower , often tconsiderable extent ; and 9Studies orocesses Oolutions.that t rotatory sive power of the solutions is generally anomalous .
According to Biot , no such abnormal dispersive power is noticeable in solutions of the metallic tartrates ; this statement has been confirmed by Winther .
Although it has been customary to regard carboxylic acids as compounds containing the free carboxylic radicle , the evidenoe that such is always the case is in no way sufficient , let alone conclusive .
The behaviour of monocarboxylic acids , especially their recognised tendency to form double molecules , as in the case of acetic acid , is clear proof that the carboxylic radicle is far from being saturated .
Taking into account the views that now prevail that valency has direction $r and the conclusion which is the outcome of this conviction that carbon atoms are not united as mere links in a chain but tend to form re-entering systems , such systems being formed preferentially from either five or six atoms ; moreover , that oxygen atoms may take the place of carbon atoms : it is both possible and probable that the fundamental molecule of tartaric acid can exist not only in the " " open\ldquo ; form commonly pictured ( I ) but also in various isodynamic " " closed\ldquo ; formoe CO(OH ) OH H(OH ) H.OH CH(OH ) HO HO .
HC / CO 1 .
II .
III .
IV .
It cannot be demed that there is little to guide us in choosing between these formula or in deciding which is the mosb likely form to preponderate .
* The third obviously a marked resemblance to that of fructose\mdash ; in which , in place of the four-membered ( tetraphane ) ring there is a fivemembered ( pentaphane ) .
The fourth is similar to the third .
It is scarcely probable , we think , either that any alteration in the degree of a substance represented by formula I or that the passage from * It is remarkable that possibilities such as these have not been taken into account by Walden , who has recognised that structural changes may in some cases underlie the alterations in rotatory power observed in solutions .
Taking the ethereal salts of tartaric acid as an example , he has postulated changes which appear to us not only to be improbable , but altogether insufficient to account for the magnitude of the effects observed , especially the change in sign of the rotatory power , accompanied by a sufficient difference in dispersive power to give rise to the phenomenon of anomalous X and may be either other molecules of the tartrate or molecules of the solvent .
) COOR H.O\mdash ; CH .
COOR H.O\mdash ; C.COOR It is well known , that gluconic and similar acids derived.from the sugars are very readily converted into the corresponding lactones\mdash ; a change precisely similar to that attending the conversion of the carboxylic form of tartaric acid into the tetraphane form ; and if gluconic lactone be regarded as present in solution in a hydrated form , the behaviour of the two acids is in correspondence .
Gluconic and similar lactones , moreover , have high rotatory powers , whilst the acids derived from them have low rotatory powers of opposite sign\mdash ; which is precisely the difference we have postulated in the case of the two isodynamic forms of taric acid .
Il may also be pointed out here that in the case of the ethereal saIts of tartaric acid two stereoisomeric modifications of the tstraphane and pentaphane forms are possible : this is also true of the quinonoid form of the -nitroquinaldine derivative examined by Pope and Winmill .
As " " asymmetric influsnces\ldquo ; are likely to be operative in such cases , the proportions in which the two isomerides are in equilibrium may be very different and one form prevail to the almost entire exclusion of the other .
1913 .
] are Studies othe Operative in Solutions.istinctio :Asimilar formula has been suggested for maleic acid in contradistinction to the dicarboxylic formulaassignedOH to the isomeric fumaric acid COOH .
CH Maleic acid .
Fumaric acid .
: Such a formula is justified not only by the fact that maleic and fumaric acids differ considerably in strength but especially because maleic acid is converted into fumaric acid by mere contact with chlorhydric or bromhydric acid\mdash ; a change which is easily accounted for by the assumption of this mula but with difficulty in any other way .
OH OH HC .
COOH : COOH .
CH If therefore tartalic acid existed in form under ordinary conditions , it is to be expected that it would be easily converted into its optical isomeride ; actually this change only takes place under special conditions and at relatively high temperatures .
Malic acid resembles tartaric acid in its optical behaviour and a similar explanation may be given of its pecuharities .
It is in accordance with our hypothesis that the rotatory power of methoxysuccinic acid , COOH .
COOH , is subject to but slight variation , as the formation from this compound of a closed tetraphane system corresponding to form III of tartaric acid is impossible ; it is nevertheless conceivable that the two compounds in esse in the original substance may rise to the corresponding derivative : but this argument would not apply to the case of chlorosuccinic , for example .
In this latter oase , however , two forms are still possible , related to one another as are maleic and fumaric acids , viz. , OH CIHC .
COOH COOH .
1 .
It is well known that the acid chloride derived from succinic acid has a owards solutes generally , apart fcasessphere action , olvents behave rwaysl 9Studies orocesses O in which some special property of the solute comes into operation to disturb ases brought forward binmiuthis rarity ooteworthy though totatory power oubstance varies the dispersive power of each set of solutions is practically identical .
By considering the of solvents generally and by further study of cases such as that afforded by the orthonitroparasulphonyl-derivative frequently referred to , in which case the activity of benzene as a solvent is quite out of the normal order , we hope that we shall be able to throw further light on this part of our subject .
But taking into account the numerous factors involved , the equilibrium arrived at in each case cannot well be otherwise than the outcome of a variety of changes which balance one another .
lt is not likely , therefore , that a simple solution of the problem can be found .
The difficulty is all the greater because of the difficulty of arriving at any proper basis of comparison .
Hitherto it has been customary to contrast the values arrived at by observations made in light of the refrangibility of the sodium hne but this is obviously insufficient ; even , however , when the observations are extended to rays of other refrangibilities , it possible that the difficulty of making proper parisons met with in the case of other physical properties will still not be overcome .
To state our views , in a few words:\mdash ; The variations in rotatory power met with in optically active compounds may be ascribed to alterations in molecular size and to the formation of compounds between solvent and solute ; ( b ) to the occurrenoe of changes giving rise to the presence of reversibly related isodynamic forms .
The charjges included under ( a ) are common to all optically active substances ; those included under ( b ) can occur only in special cases .
In these special cases , if the change involve the formation of compounds so different in chemical type that they not only differ in rotatory power in sign but also in rotatory dispersive power , the product might have anomalous dispersive power ; in other cases , it would behave normally . .
Winther , op .
, vol. 60 , p. 702 ; Walden , op .
, p. 397 .

