IV .
" Notes of Synthetical Researches on Ethers.-No .
I. Synthesis of Butyric and Caproic Ethers from Acetic Ether .
" By EDWARD FRANKLAND , F.R.S. , and B. F. DUPPA , Esq. Received April'5 , 1865 .
For some time past we have been engaged in the study of the consecutive action of sodium ' and the iodides of methyl and ethyl upon acetic ether .
When iodide of methyl is used , the chief products of the reaction are two ethereal bodies possessing respectively formulae , which we will provisionally write as follows : C Oilf Co C4Eji7 02 and C5tI9 02 .
C2 H11 C2 IH5 These bodies are decomposed , even in the cold , by baryta-water , yielding barium carbonate , alcohol , and two new ethereal liquids having formulme which , without expressing any opinion as to their nature or constitution , may be thus written:[April 27 , C4 E 7 } and C59 } O. We have also obtained corresponding results by the employment of iodide of ethyl in place of iodide of methyl , and are now occupied in the preparation of a paper containing the details of this investigation , which we hope very soon to have the honour of laying before the Royal Society* .
In the meantime , however , some of our results are so remarkable that we hasten to communicate them at once in this preliminary note .
It has been proved by Kolbe and Frankland , nearly twenty years ago , that methyl is a constituent of acetic acidt , and in the year 1857 these chemists were the first to propose the derivation of this and a large number of other organic compounds from the carbonic acid or tetratomic carbon typel .
According to this view , which is now gradually receiving the assent of chemists , the rational formula of acetic ether is C0O C , H , , or , with the formula of the contained atom of methyl fully developed , Ct Hc0 OC .
Thus the radical methyl , in acetic ether , contains three single atoms of hydrogen , combined with a tetratomic atom of carbon .
If one of these atoms of hydrogen be replaced by methyl , an ether , having the composition of propionic ether , will obviously be produced : C H3 butyric ether or its isomer will , in like manner , be formed : C H , c{ COO C0 H. An ether , of the same composition as the last , will also obviously result , if , instead of replacing two atoms of hydrogen by two of methyl , one of those atoms be substituted by one of ethyl , 02 115 rc H1O0 C , H 5 .
Again , if two atoms of hydrogen in the methyl of acetic ether be replaced by two of ethyl , caproic ether should result : C2 H And , finally , if all three atoms of hydrogen be replaced by amyl , there must be produced the ether of an acid possessing the atomic weight of margaric acid : C5 Hll O Co Hll 0 C52 ts .
{ C CHn It is unnecessary to follow theoretically these reactions further ; but it is obvious , from what has been already advanced , that , by a proper selection of the three radicals put into the place of the methylic hydrogen , any ether , from the margaric downwards , can be produced at will , by a process analogous to that which we have experimentally demonstrated in the lactic series .
The present note describes the method by which we have already realized several of these substitutions .
Synthesis of Butyric Ether .
When sodium is gently heated with acetic ether , it gradually dissolves with evolution of hydrogen , and on cooling , the liquid solidifies to a crystalline mass , which becomes hot when mixed with iodide of ethyl , abundance of iodide of sodium being formed : nevertheless it is advisable to complete the reaction by enclosing the materials in a digester , and then heating the latter for several hours to 100 ?
C. On distilling the crude product thus obtained with water , a large quantity of an ethereal liquid collects upon the surface of the aqueous portion of the distillate .
After drying with chloride of calcium , this liquid begins to boil at about 40 ?
C. , when a considerable amount of ethylic ether comes over .
Afterwards the temperature rises to 70 ?
, between which point and 80 ?
some acetic ether , which had escaped the action of the sodium , distils .
The remainder of the distillate , which [ April 27 , was collected apart , came over between 80 ?
and 250 ? .
By repeated rectification , in addition to other products , which belong to another part of the investigation , two liquids were obtained in considerable quantity , one of which boiled at 118 ?
-122 ?
, and the other at about 150 ?
-157 ?
C. On treating these liquids with boiling baryta-water for several hours , the point of ebullition of the first was rendered quite constant at 119 ?
, and that of the second at 151 ? .
Submitted to analysis , the first of these liquids yielded results closely coinciding with those calculated from the formula of butyric ether , C , -I , C00C 0I-I The boiling-point of the new ether also coincides exactly with that of butyric ether , as does also its vapour-density , which was found to be 3'96 , the vapour-density of butyric ether being 4'04 .
Its density in the liquid state is '8942 at 0 ?
C. , that of butyric ether being '9019 at 0 ?
C. The synthesized butyric ether is readily decomposed by alcoholic potash , yielding alcohol and a salt which , when distilled with excess of sulphuric acid , gives a powerfully acid oily liquid , tolerably soluble in water , possessing in a high degree the characteristic odour of butyric acid , and boiling fixedly at 161 ?
C. The boiling-point of butyric acid has been variously stated by different observers : Pelouze and Gelis give it as 164 ?
, whilst H. Kopp makes it 157 ?
, at 760 millims. pressure .
This acid gave numbers , on analysis , exactly corresponding with the formula C3 H7 C0 [ O EH .
Boiled with water and silver carbonate , it yields , after some hours , a crop of beautiful ramiform needle-like crystals , aggregated into large globular masses , which become anhydrous in vacuo ; both the mother-liquor and crystals have a faint smell of rancid butter .
Submitted to analysis they yielded results closely corresponding with those required for butyrate of silver , C3 7C0O Ag .
We reserve for a future communication the decision of the question as to whether the butyric acid thus obtained is identical with that produced by the process of fermentation ; but we may now state that the synthesized butyric ether possesses , in a very dilute form , a fruity smell , but differing in this respect somewhat from that of the butyric ether ordinarily sold as essence of pine-apples .
We have also reproduced the ether from the barytasalt with the same result as regards odour .
The production of butyric from acetic ether , by the consecutive action of sodium and iodide of ethyl , is expressed by the following equations : H fNa cHcH 2C OH1 +Na =2C OH1 +H1 O C2 H , O C2 H : .
Acetic ether .
Sodacetic ether .
Na C2 Hs CHC rC C O1 +C2I =C H +NaI 02 115 O C2 H. .
Sodacetic ether .
B 3utyric , or ethacetic ether .
It has been aiready stated above that an acid of the same composition as butyric acid must also result from the replacement of two atoms of hydrogen , in the methyl of acetic ether , by two of methyl ; and we have in fact produced this acid by first replacing the two atoms of hydrogen by sodium , and then acting upon this compound with iodide of methyl:rH Na CH [ DC Na oC HE +Na0 tI+ II 020 20CH5 002,115 0011 , H , Acetic ether .
Disodacetic ether .
Na C3 0C Na CH , 'CHNa IO 21 a0 { O + ?
20 =3}C O{ +2NaL 02115 00211t Disodacetic ether .
Butyric , or dimethacetic ether .
We have not yet obtained this ether in a state of perfect purity ; but by acting upon the crude product of the reaction with alcoholic potash , a mixture of potassium acetate and butyrate was obtained , and yielded , by the application of Liebig 's admirable method of partial saturation , butyric acid in a state of such purity that a further semisaturation produced no change in its composition .
A barium salt and a silver salt made from this acid yielded results on analysis closely corresponding with the formulae CH3 [ aa3 ( 2C C H3 C CIH3 3HH C2 0 , C0 0Ba " tO Ag Barium butyrate , or dimethacetate .
Silver butyrate , or dimethacetate .
It is thus evident that an acid , having the composition of butyric acid , can be now produced by three distinct synthetical processes , viz. 1st , by [ April 27 , the introduction of propyl into carbonic acid ; 2ndly , by the substitution of ethyl for hydrogen in acetic ether ; and 3rdly , by the replacement of hydrogen by methyl in acetic ether .
The ethers of these acids may be thus represented:fC2 OH5 H,1 CO H7 C -I fol H3 OC , I~ , O[ IOO , H , O Cs2 -5 O C2H5 Propyl-carbonic ether .
Ethacetic ether .
Dimethacetic ether .
Are these acids identical , or are they isomeric ?
We hope shortly to be able to answer this question decisively .
Synthesis of Caproic Ether .
The production of a dimethacetic compound , as above described , obviously points out a reaction by which caproic or diethacetic ether can be obtained .
It is only necessary to act upon disodacetic ether with iodide of ethyl , to obtain , with the greatest facility , the compound in question : C Na C C2H , 0 CH +20 8}-C{ H+2NaL loj I-I OC , an , Disodacetic ether .
Diethacetic or caproic ether .
Diethacetic ether boils constantly at 151 ?
C. The boiling-point of ordinary caproic ether is stated by Lerch to be 120 ?
, and by Fehling 162 ? .
These numbers differ so widely that it is impossible to use them for comparison .
Its specific gravity at 0 ?
C. is *8822 ( according to Fehling the density of caproic ether is '882 at 18 ?
C. ) , and its vapour-density 5'00 , the theoretical number being 4'98 .
On analysis it yielded numbers corresponding with the above formula .
Diethacetic ether possesses a peculiar and somewhat pleasant odour , somewhat resembling oil of peppermint ; it is insoluble in water , but miscible in all proportions with alcohol and ether .
Treated with alcoholic potash it is readily decomposed , yielding alcohol and potassium diethacetate , and by distilling the latter with dilute sulphuric acid , diethacetic acid distils over and floats on the surface of the water which accompanies it .
This acid reddens litmuspaper powerfully , is very sparingly soluble in water , and emits a peculiar odour , quite different from that of ordinary caproic acid .
Boiled with water and carbonate of silver it yields , on filtration and evaporation in vacuo , splendid fern-like crystals , which , after pressing between folds of blotting-paper and drying in vacuo , with the exclusion of light , are perfectly white , with a satiny lustre ; they possess great elasticity , and are remarkably like asbestos .
In a strong light they rapidly become brown .
Sub mitted to analysis this salt exhibited the composition required by the formula c C2 Ho C00 Ag .
Diethacetate of silver differs from the silver salt of the caproic acid prepared from cyanide of amyl , by its much greater solubility in water , and by its ramiform crystallization , amylic caproate of silver crystallizing in large and very thin plates , which are nearly insoluble in cold water .
In conclusion , there can be no doubt that this reaction is capable of a very wide extension , and that , by its means , we shall be able to ascend many of the well-recognized homologous series .
Whilst pursuing it in the acetic and benzoic series of ethereal salts , we also purpose to extend it to the alcohols and ethers .

