]\gt ; [ 165 ] V. The Iechanical Forces Acting on a Electric Condenser moving through By rofessor F. T. TROUTON , F.R.S. , H. R. NOBLE , B. , , University College , Reccived Jultc Jnne18 , 1903 .
THE experiments described in this paper were designed with the object of investigatin the behayiour of a charged electrical condenser moying through space , and to discover , if possible , whether there be a relative motion between the earth and the aether .
It was previously suggested by one of us in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Soc. ' April , , in connection with an experiment of a similar nature suggested by the late Professor , and mentioned in his collected papers edited by Professor LARMOR .
The idea underlying the experiments will be understood from the following considerations : a charged condenser be placed with its plane in the direction of the aether drift , then , on the assumption that a moving charge develops a magnetic field , there will be associated with the condenser a magnetic field perpendicular to the lines of electric induction and to the direction of the motion .
When the plane of the condenser is perpendicular to the drift , the effects of the posite charges will neutralise each other .
Thus there is magnetic energy stored in the medium when the the condenser and the direction of the drift coincide ; and accordingly it is to expected that unde ] these circumstances the condenser , when freely suspended , would tend to move so as to take up the position with its plane perpendicular to the drift , in order to transform this energy .
* To realise this , a condenser , with its plane vertical , was suspended by a fine wire and charged .
The charges were let into the plates of the condenser by means of the wire , and by a wire which hung from beneath , dippin into a liquid terminal .
Observations were made at times in the day , when the plane of the conde1lser made various angles with the direction of the drift .
If the condenser [ According to ) theory given by LARMOR Scientific Papers , tho longitudinal direction , being that of maximum kinetic energy , is the direction of equilibrium ; the forces due to displacement from it however remain as above , if the form of the system be assumed permanent .
The negative electric experimental result reached in this paper is connccted ivith the other negative secondorder results of optical experiments relating to motion through the aether , which been obtained by MICHELSON and ) RAYLEIGII .
The inferences as gards molecular theory are indicated ] 31 .
10.03 be hung with its plane north and south , then about 12 o'clock in the day there would be no couple tending to turn it , because the aether drift due to the earth 's motion in its orbit ound the sun is at right angles to the plane of the condenser ; on the other hand , at any other hour , say 3 o'clock , there would be a couple making itself felt by a tendency to rotate the plane of the condenser into the position at rigrht angles to the drift .
The effect to be looked for was an extremely small one , being a second-order effect only .
In the earlier forms of the apparatus the calculated deflection was found to be entirely obscul.ed by a of accidental disturbing causes , and , in fact , the course of the experiments consisted mainly in eliminating these disturbances one by one .
difFiculty arose from the preponderance of the electrostatic attractions between the suspended condenser and the walls of the containing case .
To minimise these the condenser was protected by a metallic coating which was kept at the same potential as the case , all being earthed .
The suspendin wire was made the insulated terminal , so that any electrostatic pull upon this wire could only produce a force acting through the centre of support , and thus the rotational effect would be eliminated , leaving only a translatory pull , which would not affect the result .
There were still esidual electrostatic actions , which were traced to the point where the suspension was fixed to the condenser .
At this point there was necessarily a break in the metallic protecting coating fixed to the condenser , owing to the fact that the earthed terminal could not be brought very close to the insulated terminal without breaking down the insulation .
To eliminate this eflect , the protecting coating was prolonged np round the support in the form of a cylinder , about 3 centims. wide , and 6 centims. high .
The pull bein now between the cylinder and the wire : and therefore an internal force , there could be no rotation produced .
Finally , it was necessary , for similar reasons , to shield the wire as it passed through the top of the containing vessel ( or case in which the condenser hung ) by a thin brass tube 1 centim. wide , passing well into the vessel , and at the same potential as the wire .
These precautions practically eliminated all electrostatic disturbances .
As it was necessary to keep the condenser charged for seyeral minutes at a time , condensers insulated with paraffin wax found quite useless for the high potentials required ( 3000 volts ) , any small leak probably increasing itself by melting the wax .
Special condensers were then made in the following manner:\mdash ; Carefully selected mica plates , ntim .
thick , were individually tested to about 5000 volts .
A disc of mica , centims. diameter , was coyered with tinfoil of .
diameter ; the uncoyered portion was coated with a thin layer of shellac-varnish .
The disc was then dried on a hot plate .
Two plates prepared in this way were ironed together with a hot iron , and the whole condenser was built up in this manner .
We thus had almost perfect insulation , for when charged the ON A CHARGED CTRIC CONDENSER MOVING THROUGH SPACE .
potential only fell from 3000 to 2000 olts in about 5minutes , although outside terminal or protecting coating was wrapped round the condenser within 1 centim. of the other terminal .
The lower contact was made by a wire dipping into aliquid , which also served th } purpose of damper to the oscillations .
Water was first tried , but the air in the soon became saturated with water vapour , to the detriment of the insulation .
wa.ter was then replaced by sulphuric acid , but it was found that the } trollec the motion of the condenser to a large exfent , although thin platinum wires used , and all damping arrangements detacbed .
The acid was then diluted as far was compatible with good insulation , the tinum lvire ( 6 mils .
) iuto it This has been found satisfactory , eyen for small controlling The last difficulty was with convection unsymmetrical shape of the suspended condenser \mdash ; a flat vertical disc \mdash ; air currents had powerful disturbing effects .
The condenser was then fitted into a smooth spherical celluloid ball , upon which the draughts had less effect .
The ball was covered with gilt paint , and earthed by means of the lower contact .
A cylindrical vessel of zinc plate , just wide enough to hold the ball , was made , ents oraughts .
Owin theer nheec n inside which the condenser hung .
We thus further diminished the possibility of convection currents by limiting the space around the condenser .
Around the inner zinc vessel was placed another , concentric with the first , the interspace being packed with cottorl-wool .
The whole of the apparatus except the suspending wire was earthed .
The final form of the apparatus is as follows ( fig. ) , the suspension , a phosphor bronze strip 37 centims. long , the finest that could be obtained .
This Fig. 1 .
was soldered at its lower end A to a copper cap , fixed to the condenser the projecting tin-foil tags , and making contact with them by means of fusible metal .
The upper end of the suspension , , was wound on a small windlass , which was insulated by a mica plate fixed to an annular woode1l ring MN , forming the lid to the inner zinc vessel .
To prevent draughts from blowing down into the apparatus , a small glass bell jar covered the windlass , contact being made by a wire passing through the small cork at the top .
PQ is the small brass tube shielding the upper part of the suspension .
CD is the cylinder protecting the point of support .
AB indicates the position of the condenser inside the celluloid ball .
Two cylindrical zinc vessels protect the apparatus ; these were earthed together with the ball containing the condenser .
A plane mirror was attached to the condenser .
This was viewed by means of a telescope and scale , through small mica windows in the zinc coverings .
The potential was maintained by a Wimshurst machine , to the terminals of which was attached a Kelvin-White voltmeter .
Calculation of the Effect .
Let ABCD ( fig. 2 ) be a given condenser charged to a surface density .
Let it be moving in the direction AB with velocity .
We have a charge per unit area moving with velocity ; this is equivalent to a current across unit length of the plane .
Fig. 2 .
The opposite charge on the other plate will produce an equal and opposite current ; therefore perpendicular to the plane of the paper and parallel to that of the condenser we have a magnetic field equal to .
The magnetic energy per unit volume is , where is the intensity of the magnetic field ; this equals The volume of the dielectric is Se , where is the total area of one armature of the condenser and the thickness of the dielectric .
The total magnetic energy is .
The total charge is , where V is the potential difference between the plates ; hence .
The total netic energy is thus If be the electrostatic energy of the condenser , is ; so that the total magnetic energy is , if be the velocity of electric propagation , the magnetic energy is Suppose now that the plane of the condenser makes an angle with the direction of motion .
Then magnetic energy of condenser is The total energy of the system is ON A CHARGED LECTRIC C SPACE .
the couple tending to increase is \mdash ; , which is If we assume independent of , the couple is If changes so that couple is always zero , eglecting quantities of 4th order ) .
Suppose is the velocity of the earth 's way through space , represented by OD ( fig. 3 ) .
Let plane of condenser be , and the axis of suspension .
Let plane ZOD cut plane in OH ; let be the ZOD and the angle Now component of velocity along axis of suspension cannot rotate condenser about , so that effective component is , and the expression for the couple becomes The experiment can be so arranged that and , and the couple reduces to for following considerations show clearly the conditions the experiment , in respect to time of day , time of year , and azimuth of the plane of the condenser .
The variation of the direction of drift with time of year .
Consider the oelestial sphere ( fig. 4 ) .
Let 2 be the position of the sun on the ecliptic .
If be a point such that then OQ will be the direction of the drift past the earth .
Let Let , the declination of the point Q. If obliquity of the ecliptic , right ascension of the sun .
6 Fig. 4 .
Tan , since VOL. CCII .
\mdash ; A. OUTON ON so that ) , Sin ( ii .
) .
( ii .
) couple due to the drift .
phere ( resent the earth turning round its NS .
Suppose the to be somewhere in the plane perpendicular to the paper and passing through the centre .
Let OQ be the direction of the drift .
Then with same meaning as })efore for and QNE , NQ Let be a particular place on the earth , which for London we take the latitude .
Then NP Let PC be plane of suspended condenser passing through of earth , and making angle with the meridian Fig. 5 .
CPN Call WNP , the time after 6 Then PNQ Let OF be perpendicular to OP in the plane of the condenser .
With as pole draw a great circle arc , meeting PQ produced at H. Then .
( See fig. 3 .
) Let be the velocity of the drift along OQ .
The component along OH So we have finally for the couple tending to rotate the condenser the value If it be possible , let us select the time of day so that PQ NP NP NQ PNQ . . . . .
( iii .
) .
When .
A OUGH SPACE .
Since .
exceeds , it is lways possible to choose so as to bhis condition .
When is so choseIl , we can olate the condenser about its axis of suspension until the angle is The then becomes , which is greatest possible .
The azimuth of the drift , measured as e , is deduced from the :\mdash ; In PQ , NQ- or , since NPQ .
But sin been chosen as unity , therefore , or .
The angle is the of the The dotted ) , shuws the time of ) is entirely Fig. 6 .
The dotted curve , fig. 9 , shows the azimuth of the drift .
If the condenser be placed as in the diagram ( fig. 6 ) , then it should tend to move so as to increase the angle NOC .
That is , the motion should be in the direction E.S.W. We shall call this the positive direction .
NO Accepting LARMOR'S Theory , the angle would diminisb .
I72 .
TkOUTON AND .
NOBLE ' ON THE ICAL FOPWES ACTING of the Sun 's Proper Motion .
In the above we ) only considered the drift due to the motion of the earth round the sun ; but it is also necessal.y to consider the effect when the ) motiou is included .
The magnitude of this motion has been investigated by NEWCOMB ( ' Astronomical Journal , ' No. 457 , pp. 4 , 5 ) , ( ' Astronomische Nachrichten , ' No. 3487 , 1 ) .
104 ) , CAMPBELL Journal , .
The result of these ations is , that there is still considerable doubt as to the magnitude and direction of this quantity ; no very exact treatment is therefore possible .
We have adopted for this calculation the rough value 15 miles/ sec. , in a direction whose ight ascension is and declination This corresponds very nearly to the position of Lyrae ( Vega ) .
In the diagram ( fig. 7 ) let OQ be the component of the drift due to the annual motion .
Let V be the position of Vega , which we shall consider as having right ascension and decl .
; and let OD be the resultant of both components .
Fig. 7 .
Let V ' be a metrically opposite Vega ( V ) .
Then , if time a PNV ( Vega \mdash ; RA ) PNV ' . . . . .
, NV , NV ' . . . . .
( ii .
) , is the direction of drift due to the sun 's proper motion , which , as we have said , ON CONDENSEI OVING rHROUGH SPAC I we shall take , OQ is the direction of drift due to the suu 's annual motion , which we take as 19 miles/ sec. We have , DQ Let , DNQ ; then NDQsin Dividing the first by the second , Now ) , therefore whence \mdash ; ( iii .
) .
From the triangle NDV ' ND si ND NDV ' From the NDQ ND ND \mdash ; NDQ ; hence , since NDV ' ND ND , or ND .
Now PND PNV ' .
ON ACTING , so that . . . . .
is lilled 1 time of equations ( iii .
) and , so equation us the value of , the when the resultant is perpendicular to the axis of suspension .
imuth of the drift NPD is given by NPD ND , which reduces ) NPD ND .
The Best Conditions Drift be entirely Latitude .
We have when PD is any angle PD ND ND .
PD exceeds , we must choose the time of day so is a minimum .
By diflerentiation we obtain the condition In a similar manner the azinluth of this component ( viz. , the one at right angles to is given by NPD so that NPD If ND ; then the component utilised is , of course , given by resultant .
In the end table the component is given .
It is also shown in fig. 9 .
If we call the magnitude of the resultant drift , theu so that approximately .
Now \mdash ; sin , sin , siu ( vii .
) .
ON Fig. 8 .
of the drift is hown 1 the fnll line in JAN . .
MAR , MAY JULY OCT DEC .
Fig. 9 . .
TROUTON AND MR. ON THE NICAL F ACTING The lower curve with full line in fig. 8 shows the corresponding magnitude of the resultant drift .
The following table shows the time of day when the drift is entirely horizontal , and azimuth of the drift at that hour , for the first day of every month in the motion and sum 's proper motion .
From to November the best time denotes the hour of the day when we the maximum horizontal component .
The total resultant can never be entirely horizontal during these months .
Measurof the of the Condenser .
The capacity was measured absolutely on the apparatus designed Dr. FLEMING Mr. Phil. and the value m.f This ON A CTRIC CONDENSER MOyING THROUGH SPACE .
value was confirmed by comparison with another known capacity by DE SAUTY'S method .
Measurement of the Controlling Couple .
A piece of brass rod , of length centims. , and diameter 97 centim. , and weight grams , was attached by its centre to the suspendin strip with its long axis .
The time of oscillation of this was observed , and gave the value 2 mins .
secs .
The value of the couple per unit twist deduced from the above data is equal to 0426 C.G.S. Calculation of Capacity of condenser Couple per unit twist of wire0426 C.G.S. Potential difference volts electrostatic units .
Electrostatic energy The distance of the sun from the earth is centims. , so that sec. Taking ( velocity of propagation ) as , we have The couple due to the drift when the condenser is in its best position is N. Let be scale deflection at distance of 1 metre ; then angular deflection is Equating the balancing couples , so that is centims. That is to say , neglecting the proper motion of the sun , and under the best conditions , when charged to a potential of 2000 volts the deflection of the condenser should amount to centims. Observations .
In order to be sure that the condenser was not held in any position , it was set oscillating uncharged and readings were taken every quarter of a minute ; giying the curve ( fig. 10 ) .
VOL. CCII . .
2 Fig. 10 .
Analysis of the Curve .
Readings of extremes Amplitudes :atios : 4.68 Amplitude :\mdash ; 4.74 3.56 2.69 1.94 Mean . . .
ON A CHARGED ELECTRIC CONDENSER MOVING THROUGH SPACE .
zero of 1st vibration .
, , 2nd , , 3rd , , 4th , , 5th Mean , which is mean zero .
Any irregularity would have shown itself in a corresponding change of zero as calculated from the decrement and the amplitude of any particular swing .
The variations in zero do not amount to more than05 centim. Observation of the Effect .
The following observation is appended as being typical:\mdash ; March 10 , 1903 .
Time 11.45 to 12.15 mid-day .
Before Charging .
Left .
Right .
Mean .
Zero Left .
Right .
Mean .
Deflected pt .
Mean Final zero .
Initial zero .
, .
Final zero , . .
Mean zero . . .
Reading of deflection .
Deflection centim. The following table gives the final results obtained .
These were observations taken after many months of experience with the apparatus , and were considered by us as conclusive against there being any such effect as we were seeking .
AZIMUTH of Condenser The largest observed deflection , 36 centim. , barely exceeds 5 per cent. of the calculated deflection , centims. The following observations , taken between March 13 and March 18 , illustrate the behaviour of the apparatus as regards electrostatic effects .
These justify the conclusion that the effect observed was the result of residual electrostatic action , * and could in no way be attributed to the relative motion of the earth and the aether .
The sign of the charges was reversed at times .
The insulation was good .
* It might be thought , at first sight , that the magnetic field produced by the moving condenser might interact with the earth 's magnetic field ; that no such action exists has been shown by FITZGERALD ( ' Scientific Papers , ' p. 111 ) .
We are therefore justified in concluding that the residual action did not arise from disturbances due to the earth 's magnetic field .
ON A CHARGED ELECTRIC CQNDENSER MOVING THROUGH SPACE .
All the above observations were taken during the middle of the day and the afternoon .
There seems to be no change of deflection with change of sign , and by comparison with previous results there seems to be no bias one way or the other .
From experience gained with the apparatus , the deflections observed would appear to be attributable to small sparks or discharges taking place inside or over the condenser , causing slight heating and consequent perturbation of the surrounding air .
This is further gested by the fact that when the condenser employed had become damaged by falls and other vicissitudes , so that audible sparkings occurred , the perturbations became so great as to prevent all possibility of observation .
There is no doubt that the result is a purely negative one .
As the energy of the magnetic field , if it exists ( and from our present point of view we must suppose it does ) , must come from somewhere , we are driven to the conclusion that the electrostatic energy of a charged condenser must diminish by the amount , when moving with a velocity at right angles to its electrostatic lines of force , where is the electrostatic energy .

