On the Constitution of the Atmosphere .
By John Dalton , Esq. F.R.S. 8c .
Communicated January 12 , 1826 .
Read February 24 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 174 .
] The object of this paper is to examine the consequences as respects the proportion of the component parts of the atmosphere simultaneously existing at different heights in one vertical column , which would follow from the atomic theory , on the supposition of a finite number of atoms existing in corporeal bodies , and of such a law of repulsion prevailing among those of elastic fluids , as Sir Isaac Newton appears to have supposed , in which the repulsive power of each particle terminates at the particles immediately adjacent .
It is well known that when two or more mutually inactive gaseous fluids are mixed , each distributes itself uniformly through the whole space occupied , and each sustains a part of the whole pressure retaining them , proportioned to its density .
This is a necessary consequence of the mutual inelasticity and independence of the gaseous atmospheres with respect to each other .
Each exerts the whole mechanical force its quantity will allow , without regard to the others ; and the sum of all these forces in the state of equilibrium counterbalances the total pressure .
This uniformity of density , however , is only a consequence of the assumed principle , where the gases occupy such small spaces as we can command in our experiments , in which the total pressure may be regarded as uniform , in a vertical as well as in a horizontal dir ection ; it is otherwise when we regard a column of indefinite height , or one prolonged to the limit of the atmosphere , -a limit at which the weight of a single particle is in exact equilibrio with the repulsion between two contiguous ones .
It is this case which the author considers in the paper before us .
He supposes , for simplicity , two atmospheric columns , one of hydrogen , and the other of carbonic acid , each supporting at its base a pressure of 30 inches of mercury ; of such height as to reach to the respective limits of each atmosphere , divided each by partitions into cells of equal magnitude , at first insulated f ; rom each other , then made to communicate , and finally , the cells to be withdrawn , and a free communication established between every part of the two columns : and from an analysis of what passes in the act of communication , and from the general principles of pneumatic chemistry , he is led to the conclusion , that the arrangement of each of the gases in the united column will be precisely the same as if the other had no existence ; that is , that each will form a separate and independent atmospheric column , containing at its base a pressure of fifteen inches , and decreasing in density according to its own peculiar law ; so that after a certain height the limit of the carbonic acid atmosphere being passed , hydrogen alone would exist in the column , and after the limit of the hydrogen atmosphere were attained a vacuum .
The author takes occasion , in the course of this reasoning , to suggest , that the absolute height of an atmosphere of carbonic acid or other gas might be found by perfectly exhausting a tall receiver , then letting in a small given portion of the gas , and testing the upper and lower portions , to ascertain its presence below and absence above .
He terminates the paper , 1st , by a view of the constitution of the earth 's atmosphere on this idea ; according to which it appears , that the atmosphere of oxygen being supposed to reach to the height of 38 miles , that of azote will reach to the height of 54 or 44 , according to the different assumptions which may be adopted respecting the weight of its atom ; -that of carbonic acid to 10 miles , and that of aqueous vapour to 50 miles : and 2ndly , by a comparison of this view with what should be its constitution on the usual theory : the whole of this view of course supposes the air to be perfectly at rest , but the actual constitution of the atmosphere is probably materially modified by the motions perpetually going on in it .

