]\gt ; The , of Electrolytes .
II.\mdash ; Methyl of Ortho- and obenzoic Acids .
By ALEXANDER CHARLES IING , D.Sc .
( 1851 Exhibition Scholar ) .
( Communicated by Professor James Walker , F.R.S. Received May \mdash ; Read , 1906 .
( From the Chemical Laboratory , University College , Dundec .
) The investigation by Winkelblech* of various amphoteric electrolytes , and the subsequent application to his experimental figures of the theory of electrolytic dissociation and the of mass action , showed that the aminobenzoic cids exhibit their amphoteric character in a marked mannel The following paper contains the esults of au vestigatio of methyl derivatives of ortho- and meta-aminobenzoic acids to ascertain the eHect of successive introductions of a methyl oroup on the of these substances both as acids and as bases .
In to obtain all the possible methyl derivatiyes of -aminobenzoic and of anthranilic acid , it was necessary to new substances and to revise some preyious wolk .
Since this pol.tion of the research is only incidentally connected with the more physical part , it has been kept sepal'ate , and placed belore the account of the physico-chemical measurements .
COOMc loride of Nethyl Estcr of ? ?
The method of prepal.ation was found by trial to good yields and was used throughout in the prepal'ation of the esters and their hydrochlorides of both the ortho and meta chloride was passed through a methyl alcoholic solution of the acid , was contained in a flask fitted with an inverted condenser .
On cooling the solution , it was found that the ester hydrochloride usually separated in .
In some instances crystals separated when the chloride had ssed for a few minutes , but this was due to the insolubility of the hydrochloride of the acid , and as the action these crystals dissolved again .
When the hydrochloride of the ester proved to be soluble in alcohol , it necessary to concentrate the solution before Cl.ystals would separate .
The 'Zeit . .
physikal .
Chem vol. 36 , p. 546 , Walker , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 73 , p. 155 , and vol. 74 , Dr. .
C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , esters of the meta series formed much more slowly than those of the ortho series .
A convenient method of finding roughly how far the action had gone at any was to take a small sample of the solution , boil off most of the hydrochloric acid , and then add some aqueous solution of sodium acetate , which caused the ester to separate as an oil .
If the acid was insoluble , it also was precipitated .
The hydrochloride of the methyl ester of -aminobenzoic acid was made in this manner , and the action was found to be complete at the end of five hours .
The crystals ltelted at to , with decomposition , and the melting point remained the same after two crystallisations from alcohol .
The amount of chloride in ths recrystallised salt was estimated with the following result:\mdash ; gramme of the salt contained gramme chlorine .
Found Cl per cent. Calculated for The methyl ester of -aminobenzoic acid separated as a fragrant oil when sodium acetate solution was added to a solution the hydrochloride .
COOH Monomethyl -Aminobcnzoic cid , Equivalent quantities of -aminobenzoic acid and methyl iodide were heated together in a sealed tube for about three hours at , when it was found that combination had occurred , the resulting compound being the hydriodide of monometh.yl -aminobenzoic acid .
This was crystallised from alcohol to remove any of the original acid , appeared as a white crystalline substance , which melted with decomposition at , and was soluble in hot water and alcohol , but much less so in the cold solvents .
It did not crystallise well from water , as it underwent slight decomposition .
Estimation of the iodine present resulted as follows:\mdash ; gramme of the substance contained gramme iodine .
Iodine found per cent. Calculated for The iodide dissolved readily in aqueous potash , and on addition of acetic acid , -anu1lobenzoic acid separated in sHlall crystals , which , after crystallisation from water , were free froUl colour and melted at ( The dimethyl acid melts at ) 1906 .
] The Affinity of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
Estimation of the by Kjeldahl 's method gave the ving results:\mdash ; gramme contained gramme of per cent. , , , , , , , , Calculated for per cent. The substance was acid to litmus and to hthalein .
gramme neutralised with phenolphthalein as indicator .
of sodium hydroxide .
The combining weight calculated from these is 149 , while that required for the formula is Monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid was found to be very soluble in alcohol , chloroform , and acetone when hot , but much less so in the cold .
It was somewhat soluble in hot water and almost insoluble in cold water , ether , and ligroin ; soluble in dilute mineral acids , but not in acetic acid .
The same substance was also prepared iu the following manner , though the yield in this case was very small , on account of the number of operations .
When an aqueous tion of the sodium salt of -aminobenzoic acid was treated with an equimolecular amount of methyl sulphate , an orange-coloured acid substance was obtained which melted at about , and retained the same point and appearance after crystallisation from seyeral solyents .
Analyses showed that this was a mixture of the mono-and di-methyl acids , and variations in the method of preparation failed to give a pure product , whilst numerous attempts at separation by crystallisation were also unsuccessful .
The substitution of methyl iodide for methyl sulphate also yielded orange-coloured substance , which , as far as it was examined , appeared to be the same mixture .
The mixture was separated into its components by methylation with boiling methyl alcohol and dry hydrochloric acid , when the hydrochlorides of the methyl esters of the respective acids were formed .
hese were readily separated , as the hydrochloride of the nlethyl ester of methyl / -aminobenzoic acid is insoluble in cold alcohol , while that of the dimethyl acid is very soluble .
The two hydrochlorides obtained in this way possessed the same perties as those of the mono- and -llethyl acid esters made by other methods , as described below .
The monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid was readily from its ester hydrochloride by boiling with excess of aqueous caustic soda .
The addition of acetic acid to the solution thus obtained precipitated the monolnethyl Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , -aminobenzoic acid , which does not forlll an acetate stable in aqueous solution .
The acid so prepared was quite from any pink colour .
P. Griess*obtained a pink substance from -benzcreatine , and described it as monomethyl -alninobenzoic acid , but hc gave neither analysis n.or melting point .
The result of the work detailed above indicates that Griess ' substance was probably a mixture , since the coloured substance which I obtained was proved to be a mixture , although both mono- and di-methyl -aminobenzoic acids are free from colour when pure .
It was found that this pink colour could be produced by a solution made from a mixture of the pure , colourless monomethyl and dimethyl acids , .
on one occasion , for some unknown , the resulting colour was boreen .
It is probable that the colour is due to oxidation .
From the failure to effect a separation of the mixture by crystallisation it was considered that the solubilities of ] cids in the various solvents tried must be very similar , and by erinlent with the pure substances it found that this was the case , the list of solubilities for the dimethyl acid being exactly the same as that given for onomethyl -aminobenzoic acids .
rochloride of the m-Arninobe ?
7 zoic Acid , COOMe After treatment of a boiling aleohnl solution of monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid with dry hydrogen chloride for .
hours , crystals separated on cooling .
These were dried on the , and found to melt to .
It must be mentioned that none of the melting points iven for these hydrochlorides are true points , but are more or less definite decomposition temperatures .
Estimation of the chloride present resulted as follows:\mdash ; gran ) of the salt contained )rnmmc chlorine .
Chlorine found ) cent. Calculated for This hydrochloride was also prepared , dil)cd , as a step in the preparation of monomethyl anthranilic acid .
It be ] made from the ester by passing dry hydrochloric acid [ ethereal ] ution of vol. 8 , ] ) .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of photeric Electrolytes .
the ester .
However prepared , it is unstable , as it loses hydrochloric acid by simple exposure to the air .
COOMe Ester of Monom obcnzoio Acid , This substance was prepared by washing its hydrochloride with water , whereby all the hydrochloric acid was removed and the ester obtained as a white solid .
The methyl ester of monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid was found to possess a faint pleasant odour , and was obtained crystals by slow evaporation of its ethereal solution .
It was very soluble in ether , htly soluble in alcohol , and extremely insoluble in water .
It melted at , and thus differed in a manner from the esters of -amillobenzoic acid and of the dimethyl acid , since both of these oils .
The preparation of this ester and its hydlochloride in nother way has been described under the preparation of monomethyl The -coloured mixture , obtained , as previously described ( p. 105 ) , by the actiou of methyl sulphate and caustic soda minobenzoic acid , was dissolved in just sufficient aqueous sodium hydroxide aill teatedo with methyl sulphate .
The resulting crystalline precipitate was free from any pink colour , and proved to be dimethyl -aminobenzoic acid .
The yield was 30 per cent. of the calculated quantity , but could probably be much increased , since no attempt was made to find the best conditions .
The separation of the dimethyl acid from the mixture by of its methyl ester oride h as already been described under monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid .
This method involyed too many operations to give other than a very small yield .
P. Griess*prepared this acid from its methyl ester , which he obtained by melting -benzbetaine ; a quantity was prepared in this way to his directions .
Another new method of dimethyl -aminobenzoic acid was discovered after sufficient for use had been obtained by the above three methods , but it appeared to be the easiest method of preparation .
Some hydrochloride of ) -benzbetaine was cautiously lnclted , when hydrochloric acid was evolved , and a yellow oil , the methyl ester of dinethyl Bel.iohte , ' vol. 6 , p. 587 .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
S [ May 21 , -aminobenzoic acid , remained behind .
From the ester , the acid was readily prepared by boiling for a few minutes with potash solution , and then adding acetic acid , when the dimethyl acid separated in small crystals .
As the hydriodide of -benzbetaine proved to be one of the easiest derivatives to prepare , the same action was then tried with it .
Like the hydrochloride , it also yielded the ester of the dimethyl acid on heating .
The samples obtained by the above methods were each found to agree with ' description .
drochloride of Methyl Est of Dimjthyl Acid , COOMo Some -benzbetaine was placed in a tube in a metal bath and the tube exhausted .
The temperature was kept at , until all the water from the deliquescent betaine was removed , and was then raised for 15 minutes to , at which temperature Griess showed* that benzbetai changes into the isomeric methyl ester of dimethyl -aminobenzoic acid .
The ester was dissolved in ether , and dry hydrochloric acid was passed through the solution .
The resulting crystalline precipitate , after several washings with ether , was dried on the .
This hydrochloride was found to be a pure white crystalline salt , which melted at 17 to , and contained the amount of chlorine:\mdash ; gramme contained gramme of chlorine .
Chlorine found per cent. Calculated for -Aminobenzoic acid was dissolved -per-cent .
methyl alcohol and to the solution were added three equivalents of methyl iodide , together with one equivalent of potassium hydroxide .
The solution was then allowed to stand for several days , with addition of more potash whenever it was found to have become acid , until three equivalents of potash had been used .
Thus far the method used was similar to that employed to obtain p-benzbetaine , by Michael and but the subsequent treatment was different .
Amer .
Chem. Jouru vol. 7 , pp. 196 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
Michael and first evaporated the so.lution to dryness , and then went through several operations to remove the potassium iodide , after which the betaine was precipitated as the hydriodide by addition of hydriodic acid .
The nlethod I adopted was to concentrate the solution sufficiently to remove most of the alcohol , and then add a little acetic acid to precipitate any mono-or di-methyl acid present .
After filtration , hydrochloric acid was added , whereby all the -benzbetaine present was precipitated as hydriodide , since the solution contained plenty of potassium iodide .
The -benzbetaine hvdriodide was found to be almost entirely free from chloride , methiodide and periodide , and was readily purified by crystallisation from water .
It melted at , and estimation of the iodine present the following result:\mdash ; gramme of the iodide contained nlme of iodine .
Iodine found .
cent. Calculated for -Benzbetaine was prepared from the hydriodide by treatment with moist silver oxide or lead hydroxide , and was purified by several crystallisations from alcohol .
It was very deliquescent , and at to wftS Lransformed into the methyl ester of dimethyl -aminobenzoic acid .
* -Benzbetaine was successfully obtained by the use of the same process , so it may be of general applicability in the preparation of benzbetaines .
COOH Eydrochloride -Benzbetaine , This was prepared by mixing the betaine with ochloric acid .
The salt is almost insoluble in concentrated hydrochloric acid and only slightly soluble in water .
It was found to be white and not deliquescent ; it melted at , and contained the of chlorine:\mdash ; gramme contained gramme of chlorine .
Chlorine found per cent. Calculated for The hydrochloride was recrystallised from alcohol , and the again estimated :\mdash ; gramme contained gramme of chlorine .
Chlorine found . .
per cent. * Griess , .
cit. Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , The hydrochloride was then suspended in alcohol and dry hydrochloric acid led .
The crystals were then off , dried on a the , not in a desiccator:\mdash ; granne contained } ralnlne of chlorine .
found per cent. This sample was used at once in a catalysis experiment , as it contained the right proportion of chlorine .
COOMe thiodide of the Esterof Dim Acid , This substance was readily obtained by the action of methyl iodide on the methyl ester of dimethyl -aminobenzoic acid , as described by inter and Kalm .
* These authors drew attention in their paper to the ease with which betaines of this class yielded , by internal rearrangement , the isomeric methyl ester of the dimethyl acid , and showed this property to be well marked in the case of -benzbetaine .
In this connection the following new mode of obtaining the quaternary iodide is of some interest , though it offers no as a method of preparation:\mdash ; Some dry -benzbetainc was kept in a closed tube with methyl iodide at to for 24 hours , when it was found that lnosb of the betaine had been used up with formation of the quaternary iodide .
That this reaction is simply a combination of the betaine with methyl iodide does not seem probable .
It is more probable that the change of -benzbetaine into the ester proceeds even at low temperatures , but reaches an equilibrium , unless the ester is removed as it is formed .
In this case we know that methyl iodide combines quickly and readily with the methyl ester of m-aminobenzoic acid .
The ester would thus be removed as it was produced , and the reaction would therefore proceed steadily to completion .
The application of this hypothesis to the similar ortho compounds would require the reaction between -benzbetaine and methyl iodide to proceed much more slowly , as the interaction of the methyl ester of dimethyl anthranilic acid and methyl iodide is known to be very slow .
By experiment it was found that only a small yield of the quaternary ortho iodide was obtained when a mixture of methyl iodide and -benzbetaine had been kept in a warm place for two weeks .
'Berichte , ' p. 411 , 1904 .
1906 .
] Affinity of nphoteric Ftes .
of th .
All the methyl deriyatives of this series have been described , and the samples used were prepared mainly by the lmethods of inter and ICah There is a uity in a of their which conveys the impression that the compound which they obtained by the action of methyl sulphate on anthranilic acid was the methyl ester of monomethyl-anthranilic acid instead of the acid itself .
It may be mentioned that in an abstract of their it is stated that they obtained the methyl ester in this wRy and not the acid .
To prevent the possibility of any mistake , the substance , prepared to their directions , was nalysed , with the result : \mdash ; gramme of the on combustion lnlne of watel and amme of carbon clioxide .
Found , Calculated for monomethyl-anthranilic acid ) OOEt Ester of Acid , This was prepared from monomethyl-anthranilic acid by the action of boiling ethyl alcohol and hydrogen chloride for 10 .
The solutionl was evaporated almost to dryness , and then excess of dilute caustic was added , whereby the ester separated as an oil , which was removed by extraction with ether .
The ethereal solution was washed with dilute alkali , dilute acid , and then several times with water , after which the ether was evaporated .
The ethyl ester of monomethyl-anthranilic acid was found to be a colourless oil with a pleasant odour of jasmine .
It was solid below to , and , , closely resembled the methyl ester in both odour and melting point .
It was somewhat soluble in alcohol , freely soluble in ether , and so extremely insoluble in water and acids that it was not found possible to determine its strength as a base .
The hydrochloride was prepared as a white slalline salt by dry hydrogen chloride into a solution of the ester .
It was soluble in alcohol , insoluble in ether , and mixing it with water caused instantaneous 'Berichte , ' p. 401 , 1904 .
Chem. Soc. Journ 86 , I , p. 236 , 1904 .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , separation of the ester from the hydrochloric acid .
Analysis of the amount of chlorine this result:\mdash ; gramme of the hydrochloride contained gramme of chlorine .
Found chlorine Calculated for Methiodide of th JTethyl Ester of Dimethyl-anthrandic Acid , This compound prepared in the manner recommended by Willsta , tter and Kahn , *namely , by the interaction of methyl iodide and the methyI ester of dimethyl-anthranilic acid , and it was found that the yield became almost theoretical if the mixture was kept for lnany days at about The above authors state that this combination does not occur in ethereal solution , but this is not strictly correct , the action does take though with extreme slowness .
Ether , however , is a poor solvent for the purpose , and it was found that if alcohol or acetone were employed , the rate of rea , ction approximated to that observed in the absence of any solvent .
However , as a method of preparation it is best to use no solvent .
of the Acid and Constants .
Except where it is specifically stated that some other temperature was employed , the experiments detailed in the were performed in a thermostat , which was kept at to within one-tenth of a degree .
Basic Constants.\mdash ; There are a number of methods available for the determination of the strength of weak bases , and of these the methyl acetate catalysis method was found to be the most enerally applicable .
The comparison method , details of which may be found in the paper of Walker and Wood , was employed as being the most accurate and , as the figures below will show , these amphoteric electrolytes as good results as those obtainable with ordinary electrolytes .
As a general rule the hydrochloride was used , but in a few cases the hydriodide was more readily prepared in a state of purity and was therefore substituted for the chloride .
One naturally expecc the hydrolysis of a chloride and of an iodide to be equal , but as there was no experimental evidence as to the action of hydriodic acid and iodides on methyl acetate a few experiments were tried . .
cit. 'Chem .
Soc. Journ vol. 8.3 , p. 484 .
1906 .
] Tloe Affinity Constcmts of Electrolytes .
Solutions were prepared , one of which was for oric acid and for potassium chloride , while the other was for hydriodic acid and for potassium iodide .
The experiments were in duplicate , and the constant found for the chloride solution was as against for the iodide .
Both acids were standardised in the same manner and against the same soda solution .
To eliminate any error in determining the strength of the ncids , the following experiments were nexb performed:\mdash ; Solution A was made from 10 .
of hydrochloric acid , .
grammes of potassium chloride , and 10 c.c. of ater , and was , therefore , for acid and for total chloride .
found Solution was made from 10 .
of hydrochloric acid , grammes of potassium bromide , and 10 .
of water , and was , therefore , for acid and for total bromide contents .
found Solution was made from 10 .
of hydrochloric acid , rammes of potassium iodide , and 10 .
of water , and was , therefore , for acid and for total iodide contents .
found Since an equal quantity of the same acid was used in all cases , the difference can only be due to the difference between chloride and iodide .
It will be noticed that the bromide and chloride , and that the error arising from the use of an iodide is that too low a yalue is obtained for the hydrolysis , and consequently too high a value for .
The cause is most probably oxidation of the hydriodic acid , since the solution , which at the start was almost colourless , always darkened the experiment .
Other methods for determining the basic constant were also tried , but were mostly unsatisfactory on account of the readiness with which the substances oxidise in solution .
Acid Constants.\mdash ; In some cases an attempt was made to determine the acid dissociation constant by direct measurement of the hydrion concentration by the interesting new method of Bredig and Fraenkel , have found that extremely small concentrations of hydrion can be measured by the rate at which the catalysis of diazo-acetic ester occurs .
Details of the method as applied in this research will be found under anthranilic acid ( o-amino- benzoic acid ) .
The acid dissociation constants for the stronger acids were obtained by ' Zeit .
Elektrochem vol. 2 , p. 626 , 1905 .
VOL. LXXVIII .
114 Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , calculation from the conductivities by Walker 's method .
As most of these substances possess a tendency to oxidise in solution , the conductivity was always determined in a cell with unplatinised electrodes , but as they are all feeble electrolytes , this did not diminish the accuracy of the readings .
The water used for the conductivities was prepared as recommended by Walker and Cormack , none was used with a conducoivity greater than at The sodium hydroxide used in the preparation of the sodium salts was made by exposing metallic sodium to a wet atmosphere in a vessel protected from the atmosphere until it was completely hydrated , and the hydroxide was then dissolved in pure " " conductivity\ldquo ; water .
Platinised electrodes were , of course , available for the sodium salts .
Saponification of Methyl cetate ( Shields ' Method ) Where the C011ductivity of any substance proved too small to be of any use , the strength of the acid was found by the rate at which the sodium salt saponified a methyl-acetate solution .
Several attempts were made to prepare the sodium salts in the solid state to insure that exactly equivalent proportions of acid and base were present .
Addition of alcohol and ether precipitatea1 the sodium salt from a strong aqueous solution , but in such a gelatinous form that it was not capable of purification .
Corlsequently , all the sodium salts mentioned in this paper were prepareci by solution of a weighed quantity of acid in a standard solution of pure sodium hydroxide .
For a methyl-acetate saponification experiment so much of the acid , sodium hydroxide , and methyl-a jetate solutions were mixed as to make the solution the same strength for all constituents .
The equation for the reaction is then , , where is the initial titre , and the amount in any time .
The constant for sodium hydroxide in the same units at is about From we obtain by means of the relation Anthranil Acid , Basic Constant and Dilution Law.\mdash ; It has been assumed that the dilution law for simple holds true also for amphoteric electrolytes , but there Chem. Soc. Journ vol. 77 , p. 8 , 1900 .
Shields , ' Phil. Mag vol. 35 , p. 365 , 1893 .
Arrhenius , ' Zeit .
physikal .
Chem vol. 5 , p. 16 , 1890 .
1906 .
] The Affinit.of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
has been no experimental justification by the catalysis method for this * assumption .
The hydrolysis of the hydrochloride of anthranilic acid was therefore determined at several dilutions , by the comparative methyl acetate catalysis method of Walker and Wood .
* If the dilution law is true , then the ratio should be the same , whatever the dilution at which the experiment is performed , since by this law the formula holds true for all dilutions : \mdash ; The results for anthranilic acid hydrochloride were as follows , the amount hydrolysed:\mdash ; It will be seen that the dilution law does not trictly true , but the error introduced by calculation from one dilution to another is only a minor one , if the two dilutions be reasonably near one another .
Hydrion Concentration.\mdash ; One of the most striking facts in connection with amphoteric electrolytes is that the conductivity does not give a direct estimate of the hydrion concentration .
Bredig and Fraenkel have recently deyised a simple 1nethod for the estimation of hydrion in small concentrations by the catalysis of diazo-acetic ester , the rate of the reaction , which is monomolecular , being followed by observing the amount of nitrogen evolved .
The experiments with this method which are given in this paper were all performed in a thermostat at .
The same volumes were used in all cases to render the experiments comparable , namely 20 c.c. of the solution hydrion , .
of diazo-acetic ester , and 2 .
of ethyl-alcohol .
The diazo-acetic ester was also as a check .
No reading was taken for the first few minutes after .
cit. .
cit. .
A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , Anthranilic Acid .
As a standard of comparison , acetic benzoic acids were investigated under the same conditions .
benzoic acid , which has a hydrion concentration of , gave a constant of in the same units .
acetic acid with a hydrion cuncentration of gave a constant of lrion concentration of anthranilic acid , if the benzoic acid be taken as the standard of comparison , ) , while if the acetic acid be used as the standard it is Walker*has calculated the hydrion concen tration in anthranilic acid solutions from the experimental data of Winkelblech , ftnd according to his equations it should , in solution , be , whilst a simple acid of similar conductivity would have a ydrio concentration of .
The result is thus in excellent accord with Walker 's tion .
Ester of For the determination of the of the ester as a base the twice crystallised hydrochloride was used .
This was from anthranilic acid , and melted at .
Estimation of the chlorine resulted as follows:\mdash ; gramme contained ) of chlorine .
Found chlorine Calculated for .
cit. Erdmann and Erdmann , ' Berichte , ' vol. 32 , p. 1215 .
1906 .
] The Affinity of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
Methyl Acjtate Catalysis .
gramme of hydrochloride of methyl estcr of anthranilic acid in 20 .
of water .
otution .
for total chloride , for free , hydrolysis in solution per cent. Ethyl Ester of Acid , The hydrochloride of this ester was prepared like the similar compou n and crystallised from alcohol .
The melting point was , and analysis of the amount of chlorine gave the following result:\mdash ; gramme of the hydrochloride contained ramme of chlorine .
Chlorine found per cent. Calculated for Methyt hydrochloride of this ester is so much hydrolysed in solution , and the ester itself so insoluble , that it was not found possible to work with a solution stronger than , and the satisfactory estimate obtained at this dilution shows the wide applicability of the method .
ramme of the hydrochloride of the ethyl ester of anthranilic acid in 20 .
water .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , Comparison Solution .
for chloride , for free hydrochloric acid , hydrolysis in solution Monomethyl-anthranilic Acid , Two samples of this were prepared by different methods:\mdash ; ( A ) A quantitative yield was obtained by the use of methyl sulphate ( Willstatter and Kahn ) .
Reference has already been made to this method and an analysis given of the sample , which was crystallised from alcohol and then three times from water before use in the following experiments .
( B ) Another sample , which was used only for a conductivity determination , was made by the action of methyl iodide and potash on anthranilic acid .
Before use the sample was crystallised six times from water .
Basic Constant.\mdash ; Monomethyl-anthranilic acid is so insoluble that it was found necessary in the methyl acetate talysis e to take more hydrochloric acid than corresponded to the amount of base , and to use supersaturated solutions , in order that the experiments not be unduly As this diminishes the accuracy of the method , two expel.iments were performed with different ratios of acid to base .
Methyl Acetate atalysis .
gramme of monomethyl-anthranilic acid in 50 .
of hydrochloric acid .
for base for Titre .
O Mean C'ompurison Solution .
for total chloride , for free hydrochloric acid , mean * Schultz and Flachslander , abstract in ' Chemisches Centralblatt , ' ( 2 ) , 448 , 1902 .
1906 .
] The Affinity of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
II .
A solution was made from gramlne monomethyl-anthranilic acid and 10 hydrochloric acid , diluted to 110 .
with water .
These irregular quantities were taken because they were the smallest amounts of acid and water in which the base would remain dissolved , when the solution was cooled from the high temperature used to obtain the solution .
for base for acid parison Solution .
for total chloride , for free hydrochloric acid , mean method of calculation used to find in an experiment such as the above is as follows:\mdash ; Base taken Free acid Total acid taken Salt present Free base present Mean of I and II Acid Constant.\mdash ; Monomethyl-anthranilic acid possesses marked acid properties , as was shown by the fact that it could be accurately titrated against soda with phenolphthalein as indicator .
Its strength as an acid was found from the conductivity determinations , which were done on solutions prepared separately by dissolving quantities acid in llitre of water in a bottle of " " \ldquo ; Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , The conductivity of the sodium salt of monomethyl-anthranilic acid was also determined .
68 .
80 was taken as the value at infinite dilution , and this gave for monomethyl-anthranilic acid , .
Turning to the acid constant to be deduced from these figures , examination of the tables given in Walker 's paper show that where is small , and are practically identical at high dilutions , such as were employed here .
The value of for monomethylanthranilic acid may be taken then as Ester of milic Acid , Basic Constant.\mdash ; The hydrochloride of -anthrsnilic acid was prepared from the acid by the combined action of alcohol and chloride .
It was a salt which crystallised from alcohol in fine , colourless needles , was very soluble in water , in ether , and melted at The sample used was crystallised twice alcohol and analysed for chlorine .
gramme contained ramme of chlorine .
Chlorine found per cent. Calculated for Methyl Acetate Catalysis .
gramme of the hydrochloride of methyl ester of monomethyl-anthranilic acid was dissolved in 20 .
of water .
Mean Comparison Solution .
for chloride , for free hydrochloric acid mean 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
Dim !
Acid , Basic The method of preparation was that given by Willstutter and .
The acid was purified by three crystallisations from ether , and formed transparent ] which melted at .
Its as an acid was sufficient to prevent titration of acetic acid by phenolphthalein in its presence , but it not strong enough to be titrated itself by the use of that indicator , so that it was found necessary to -nitrophenol as indicator in the catalysis experiment .
atalysis .
of dimethyl-anthranilic acid in 20 .
of hydrochloric acid .
Titre .
Titre .
Titre .
Mean Comparison Solution .
for chloride , free hydrochloric acid , mean in ) cent. Acid \mdash ; Dimethyl-anthranilic acid crystallised so well from ethel that an attempt was made to determine its strength as an acid by the conductivity , but with each rec1ystallisation the conductivity steadily diminished , until it was too near that of pure water to value .
last determination made with water of conductivity , in a cell with electrodes , gave the following result .
That the acid dissociation constant was not negligibly small was shown 1oy the action on indicators , and also by the conductivity of the sodium salt , which exhibited evidence of but a small amolmt of hydrolysis .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , Conductivity of sodium salt of dimethyl-anthranilic acid .
67 .
80.8 This experiment showed , however , that , though there was hydrolysis , it was very slight .
The diazo-acetic ester method for the estimation of hydrion was also tried with a solution of dimethyl-anthranilic acid , but no measurable amount of was evolved in two hours .
This is a conclusive proof that the acid is extremely weak .
Acetate Saponification.\mdash ; The methyl acetate saponification method of Shields did not adapt itself well to the case of dimethyl-anthranilic acid , since the only indicators with which one could estimate the acetic acid were more or less affected by the dimetbyl acid .
As the best available , -nitrophenol was used , but it was not vely satisfactory .
The solution was ma by dissolving gramme of dimethylanthranilic acid in 25 .
of sodiunl hydroxide and addition of 25 of methyl acetate solution .
Mean x The saponification constant for soda and methyl acetate is , so that Physical Properties and Ring will be seen that there is a very marked drop in the acid dissociation constant when we introduce the second methyl group in the anthranilic series .
In the meta series , on the other hand , it was found that the mono- and di-methyl acids agreed closely in all their physical properties , such as bility , appearance , and the acid and basic constants .
The summary of the physical properties of dimethyl-anthranilic 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
acid , in comparison with the allied substances , leaves little doubt that the diflerence is stereochemical , and that this acid is more closely related to the betaines , possessing a tendency to ring formation , which would naturally be most marked in the ortho series .
In the first place , dimethyl-anthranilic acid resembles in external appearance -benzbetaine much more closely than it does anthrauilic or monomethyl-anthranilic acid , since it forms soft , transparent crystals , which are characteristic of both ortho-and meta- benzbetaine .
It dissolves also very readily in water and alcohol and slightly in ether , thus agreeing with the betaines , but not with the other substances .
The point of anthranilic acid is 14 ; the mono derivative melts at , whilst the dimethyl derivative melts at .
In the meta series the mono-and di-methyl derivatives melt within of one another .
The similarity to the etaine sests ring formation in the molecule , and this would at once explain the low acid dissociation constant , since extensive ring formation and pronounced acid properties are incompatible .
fllethyl Ester of Di Acid , Basic Constant.\mdash ; This ester was prepared by the method of Willstatter and Kahn , purified by distillatio1 ] , and its strength as a base determined by a ethyl acetate catalysis with the hydrochloride .
The hydrochloride was prepared by passing hy chloride through an ethereal solution of the ester , when the salt separated as a white crystalline solid , which was purified by several washings with ether .
The hydrochloride of the methyl ester of dimethyl-anthranilic acid , which has not been previously described , melts with decomposition at to is very soluble in wat , er , soluble in alcohol , insoluble in ether , and is slightly deliquescent .
Its identity was confirmed by analysis of the amount of chlorine .
gramme of the hydrochloride contained gramme of the chlorine .
Chlorine found per cent. Calculated for Jfethyl Acetate Catalysis .
gramme of the hydrochloride of the methyl ester of dimethyl-anthranilic acid was dissolved in 20 .
of water .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , for chloride , for free hydrochloric acid , mean It will be seen that is here only approximately a constant , as it showed a steady increase with time .
It was found by repetition of the experiment that this was a real variation and not due to experimental error .
In another set of experiments , in which the readings were taken at an earlier stage of the reaction , the value obtained for was somewhat higher , viz. , 4200 .
The explanation is , doubtless , that the methyl ester of dimethyl-anthranilic acid undergoes hydrolysis ( sapouihcation ) itself during the course of the reaction , and the hydrolysis of any of this ester irvolves the liberation of an equivalent quantity of hydrochloric acid , since at such a reat dilution any hydrochloride of -anthranilic acid would be almost completely hydrolysed .
The influence of such a secondary action would be very small if the ester hydrochloride were much hydrolysed , but when we are dealing with a comparatively strong base , such as we have here , the effect on the apparent is at its maximum .
As an instance , we may consider an ester whose real is 7800 , and suppose that in the ester is itself hydrolysed 1 per cent. before the readings are taken ; the apparent will then be 3100 .
for the methyl ester of dimethyl-anthranilic acid may , therefore , be taken as not below 4000 , and from a consideration of the rate at which the constant falls off with time , it is probable the real lies between 5000 and 6000 .
Basic Constant .
-benzbetaine , prepared by the method of Willstatter and Kahn , was repeatedly crystallised from alcohol , and in this manner obtained in large transparent crystals , which melted at .
The basic dissociation 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
constant was found by a methyl acetate catalysis with a solution of the hydrochloride prepared from the pure betaine and an equivalent quantity of hydrochloric acid .
Acetate Catalysis .
gramme of -benzbetaine in 20 .
of hydrochloric acid .
Comparison olution .
for clllorides , for free hydrochloric acid , .
mean , hydrolysis of -benzbetainle hydrochloride in solution per cent. Acid bstant.-benzbetaine , which had been several times crystallised from alcohol , was found to possess an appreciable conductivity , but further careful crystallisation produced a steady , until the last conductivity obtained from a solution was only three times that of pure water .
The method of SlJields was therefore used , and , as a preliminary showed the hydrolysis to be very , a solution of pure caustic soda was employed as a comparison:\mdash ; ( A ) gramme of -benzbetaine was dissolved in 20 .
of sodium hydroxide and diluted to 100 .
This was mixed with 100 .
of of methyl acetate , so that the final dilution of all constituents was 128 .
( B ) sodiunl hydroxide solution was with 100 .
of methyl acetaoe , and was here also 138 .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , It is evident that all the caustic soda is free , and the conclusion is , therefore , that -benzbetaine possesses no measurable acid properties .
The Eydroxide of the JTethyl Ester of -Benzbetaine , Willstatter and Kahn have shown that if an aqueous solution of the uuethiodide of the methyl ester of dimethyl-anthranilic acid is acted on by Qilver oxide at zero , a strong base is obtained , which quickly disappears , and the solution is found to contain only the -benzbetaine .
The base is undoubtedly the hydroxide of the methyl ester of -benzbetaine , and the methiodide the the same base .
This iodide is quite stable in aqueous solution and it was , therefore , prepared and purified by two crystallisations from water .
It melted at , and analysis for iodine gave the following result:\mdash ; gramme of the iodide contained gramme of iodine .
Iodine found per cent. Calculated for Basic Strength of the Hydroxidc.\mdash ; An attempt was made to find the extent olysis of the iodide in solution by catalysis of methyl acetate , but it too small to detect in this manner .
By the delicate method of Bredig and Fraenkel extremely minute concenlrations of hydrion can be readily recognised , but a solution of the iodide of the methyl ester of -benzbetaine , when mixed with diazo-acetic ester in the usual manner , caused no evolution of nitrogen at all .
This proved con clusively that there was no appreciable hydrolysis .
of the Hydroxide of the Ester of An ice-cold solution of the methiodide of -benzbetaine , was mixed with a measured volume of ice-cold water in which excess of freshly prepared and thoroughly washed silver oxide was suspended .
After for two or three minutes , the solution was filtered off from the silver oxide and iodide .
If the temperature was kept very near zero throughout , an almost quantitative yield of the tetramethyl derivative was obtained , provided that the solutions were very dilute .
The hydroxide of the methyl ester of -benzbetaine is a substance of peculiar interest , since it is at the same time a strong base and an ester .
The experiments with its iodide showed the base to be a very strong o1le , and it was found that even in very dilute solution it quickly decomposed .
Since the end products were neutral , this reaction could be readily followed by 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
titration , and it was conclusively proved that the decomposition was due to the tion of the ester part of the molecule by the hydroxidion which the same substance in virtue of its p1operty as a base .
Rate of Decomposition . .
of tetramethyl iodide solution was shaken with 100 .
of water excess of silver oxide , and immediately filtered .
Precautions taken to keep the temperature as near as possible , and the solution after filtration was kept in a vessel sulrounded by finely crushed ice .
The solution was found by the first titration to be 0.00995 N. should be a constant if the action were monomolecular , whilst if we take the action as bimolecular we should , et where A is the total change expressed in terms of a normal solution , and is the amount changed in any time The reaction is evidently bimolecular , as it should be if it were an action an ester and the hydroxidion prodnced by the electrolytic dissociation of the basic group .
Rate of nposition in Presence of Sodium obtain a comparison between the strength of the base and that of sodium hydroxide , similar experiment was performed under identical conditions , except that the solution was made not only for the ester-base , but also for sodium hydroxide .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , : The constant is calculated as before from the equation\mdash ; From this ib appears that the rate at which the ester-base saponified itself is roughly half that at which the saponification occurred when an equivalent amount of sodium hydroxide was also present .
Strictly the above equation should have been replaced by one taking account of the two reactions .
, where A is the .
concentration of the ester-base and also of the sodium hydroxide , and and the amounts hydrolysed by the ester-base and the sodium hydroxide respectively in any .
The data are not sufficiently accurate to test this equation , but the evidence supports the assumption that and are approximately equal , i.e. , that the ester-base supplies as much hydroxidion as the sodium hydroxide .
Rate of Decomposition in Presence of Tethyl Acetate.\mdash ; Perhaps the most convincing proof that the hydroxide of the methyl ester of -benzbstaine is really a strong base , and yields hydroxidion , was afforded by its action on methyl acetate .
A solution of the ester-base- was prepared from the iodide with silver oxide , and sufficient methyl acetate solution added to make the mixed solution for both constituents .
The solution was at once filtered , and titrated at intervals , being kept at zero as in the previous experiments .
The equilibrium in the above solution is so complex that no attempt has made to calculate the constant for the reaction , but a comparison of these figures with those given for the auto-saponification of the ester-base at the same temperature and dilution show that the methyl acetate was rapidly saponified by the ester-base , which thus possesses basic properties comparable with those of sodium hydroxide .
Conductivity of the droxide of the iMethyl Ester of -Benzbetainc.\mdash ; The conductivity of the tetramethyl derivative in comparison with that of 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
sodium hydroxide of some interest .
The constant of the cell was determined at , and measurements were then made at about that temperature with sodium hydroxide and hydroxide of the methyl ester of -benzbetaine , under conditions as nearly identical as possible .
The hydroxide of the methyl ester of -benzbetaine was prepared frolu its iodide interaction with washed silver hydroxide , and filtered at once into the measuring .
From the amount of iodide used and the volume , the strength of the tion should have been N. From a titration made immediately after the filtration , it was found to be N. Conductivity of the Hydroxide of the Methyl Ester of -Benzbetaine .
Conductivity of Sodium Hydroxide under the same Conditions .
The.agreement is sufficiently close to show that the dissociation and ionic velocities must be of the same order of magnitude .
It may be remarked that it would be possible to follow the self-saponification of the ester-base by means of the conductivity , since the ester-base is a strong electrolyte , while the products -benzbetaine and methyl alcohol are non-electrolytes .
In the above experiment the conductivity fell about 1/ 6 in one hour .
obenzoic Acid , Hydrion Concentration.\mdash ; The diazo-acetic ester method for the estimation of hydrion was tried at various dilutions .
VOL. LXXVIII.\mdash ; A. 130 Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , The constants for acetic and benzoic acids have already been given under anthranilic acid .
If benzoic acid be taken as the standard , the hydrion concentration in -aminobenzoic acid is .
With acetic acid as standard it is .
Walker 's calculated value is , while that of a simple acid with a conductivity equal to that of -aminobenzoic acid would be Mean 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of photeric Electrolytes .
There are several causes which may contribute to the discrepancy between the calculated and the observed value , for instance , the influence of ionised salt on the diazo-acetic ester .
According to Walker 's theory there must be ionised salt present , since -aminobenzoic acid possesses marked acid and basic properties .
Further , we have no positive knowledge of the of unionised molecules , or of the addition of alcohol to an aqueous solution of an amphoteric electrolyte .
There is , however , a method of comparison which is open to less uncertainty , namely , to ascertain the effect of dilution on the hydrion concentration .
In this case the influence of disturbing factors should be regular throughout .
It was by experiment that the hvdrion concentration of benzoic acid was double that of a tion , as shoul be the case with a simple acid , according to Ostwald 's dilution law .
The divergence of an amphoteric electrolyte from the simple law is clearly shown in the following table , in which the hydrion concentration with has been called 100 , the figures for the other dilutions being calculated on this basis : Methyl Ester of -Aminobenzoic Acid , Basic Constant.\mdash ; The strength of this ester as a base was found by a methyl acetate catalysis with the hydrochloride , the preparation of which has already been described .
Methyl cetate Catalysis .
grammes of the hydrochloride of the methyl ester of -aminobenzoic acid were dissolved in 20 .
of water .
Comparison Solutions .
for chloride , for free hydrochloric acid ; ( 2 ) for chloride , for free hydrochloric acid ; mean Monomethyl -Aminobenzoic Acid , Basic Constant .
Whenever possible it is preferable to use a crystalline salt in making up a solution for hydrolysis purposes and , accordingly , methyl acetate catalysis was performed with the thrioe crystallised hydriodide of monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid , the preparation and analysis of which will be found in the first part of this paper .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
Mjthyl Acetate gramme of the ydriodide of monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid in 20 .
of water .
Comparison Solution .
for chloride , for free hydrochlorie acid , mean , hydrolysis in solution per cent. These results appeared to fix the basic strength of 1nonomethyl m-aminobenzoic acid with fair certainty , but when it was found that an iodide is .
liable to give too high a result , the chloride was tried .
It was not found possible to obtain the chloride in a pure crystalline state , so hydrochloric acid was added to weighed quantities of monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid .
The first two experiments gave the hydrolysis in solution as 16 per cent. and per cent. respectively , which would mean that the was about 350 , as ainst 1850 from the experiment with the iodide .
There seemed a possibility that the acid had oxidised in the chloride expel.iments , and an experiment was therefore performed in a flask from which the air was expelled after each titration with The result was as follows : \mdash ; Methyl Acetate boramme of monomethyl -aminobenzoic acid in 20 .
of h.ydrochloric acid .
Comparison Solution .
for chloride , for free are , id , mean , hydrolysis in solution per cent. Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , The difference between the values obtained from the chloride and iodide is still , and there seems no means of determining the exact value .
As that from the chloride is probably too low , and the iodide value too has been taken as 1000 in the calculation of the acid constant from the conductivity .
Conductivity and Acid monomethyl -alninobenzoic colourless .
Conductivity of the Sodium Salt.\mdash ; free.from conductivity wmostacid wised , ound pbtain i , so that a Conductivi o which were known not to alter the conductivity .
In view of the uncertainty as to the exact value of , the agreement between the experimental and calculated vahues of the molecular conduotivity may be regarded as satisfactory .
Nethyl Ester of rn-A ?
m nobenzoi Acid , Although both the ester and its hydr ( Jchloride were prepared , no value can be given for the basic constant of this ester on account of its extreme insolubility .
On addition of water to the hydrochloride , the hydrochloric acid all dissolves , but none of the ester .
The Lowenherz solubility method was tried , but a litre of hydrochloric issolved , ofChem Sster. .
Farmer's* 1906 .
] The ffinity of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
method was also tried , using benzelle as the non-aqueous solvent , but the whole of the ester dissolved in the benzene and none in the water .
Dimeth ?
y-Aminobenzoic Acid , Basic Constant\mdash ; The specimen used for the physical determinations was prepared from m-benzbetain crystallised once from alcohol and twice from water .
The strength as a base was found by catalysis of methyl acetate .
Methyt Acetate Catalysis .
gramme of dimethyl .-aminobenzoic acid was dissolved in 10 .
of lydrochloric acid , and 5 .
of water .
olution .
for chloride , for free hydrochloric acid , A repetition of this determination with a sample of dimethyl acid prepared by the new method gave , the experiment performed in solution in the same manner as the above .
Acid Constant.\mdash ; The preparation of this substance has already been described .
The sample used was several times crystallised from water .
The conductivity of the sodium salt at was , and the figures used for and were , therefore , , and respectively .
The value of used in the calculations was 1580 , water used had a conductivity of Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , The reason for the discrepancy in this case between the theoretical and experimental numbers is not apparent .
It is probably connected with the high value of Methyl Ester of Dimethyl -Aminobenzoic Acid , Methyl Acetate Catalysis .
gramme of the hydrochloride of the methyl ester of dimethyl -aminobenzoic acid was dissolved in 25 .
of water .
Comparison for for free hydrochloric acid , ; the constants were , 111 , 112 , 112 .
Basic Constant.\mdash ; ?
-Benzbetaine is deliquescent and hydrochloride was therefore prepared for the methyl acetate catalysis , which was performed also with the hydriodide .
Acetate Catalysis .
granlme of hydrochloride of -benzbetaine in 20 .
of water .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Electrotytes .
Comparison Solution .
for chlorides , for free hydrochloric acid , mean , hydrolysis of betaine hydrochloride in solution per cent. A similar experiment with ?
-benzbetaine hydriodide showed it to be per cent. hydrolysed , or with a of 3060 .
Probably the lower value is the more correct , as it has already been mentioned that iodides show less than the true amount of hydrolysis .
Acid Constant .
-Benzbetaine crystallised from alcohol , but on account of its great solubility and deliquescence it was not found possible to reduce the conductivity to a minimum , as it continued to fall with each recrystallisation .
Saponification of methyl acetate , in the same manner as described under -benzbetaine , was performed with three solutions which were all for sodium hydroxide , but contained respectively no betaine , one equivalent of betaine , and two equivalents of the betaine .
The results are iyen in this table : 20It is evident that -benzbetaine , like the similar ortho , is practically devoid of acid properties .
The Hydroxidc of the Ester of Basic Strength.\mdash ; The iodide of this base was faintly acid to azolitmin , but neutral to other dicators .
No hydrolysis could , however , be detected in solution with diazo-acetic ether , and base was evidently very strong .
Addition of moist silver oxide to a cold solution of the iodide gave a strongly alkaline solution which became neutral in a few minutes .
This hydroxide , like the corresponding ortho compounld , has a basic constant of the same order of magnitude as caustic soda .
Dr. A. C. Cumming .
[ May 21 , :1 Sulnmary of NHMeN . . .
1 .
0 .
3 .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
43 .
ca .
great

