462 Mr. J. C. W. Humfrey .
[ May 28 , 8 per cent. , the smaller figure in this case being accounted for probably by the more sluggish metabolism in this animal .
These results regarding the carbonic acid excretion are confirmed by those of water excreted and oxygen absorbed .
For these two bodies the figures are by no means so constant as for the carbonic acid , the reason for this being no doubt that the technique for the estimation of them is much more complicated , and the chance of experimental error so much greater .
The results have been further confirmed by observing the rectal temperature during the various periods .
It will be noticed that even in an atmosphere of air a distinct fall is recorded after the animal has been in the chamber for about an hour .
This fall is , however , more marked when the animal is placed in oxygen , and it again rises somewhat when the oxygen is replaced by air .
Besides the experiments here recorded , we have performed a considerable number in which the carbonic acid and water excretions alone were recorded , and in every case we have obtained the above result .
Two of the most typical of these tables are given here as examples ( see Experiments 4 and 5 ) .
This research has been carried out with the help of a grant from the Government Grant Fund of the Boyal Society .
" Effects of Strain on the Crystalline Structure of Lead .
" By J. C. W. Humfrey , B.Sc. ( Viet .
) , 1851 Exhibition Besearch Scholar ( University College , Liverpool ) , St , John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.B.S. Be-ceived May 28 , \#151 ; Bead June 5 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The paper describes experiments carried out in the Engineering Laboratory at Cambridge , under Professor Ewing .
The material used was a pure variety of lead which crystallised on a particularly large scale .
Test pieces were obtained from it in which the part under observation ( which extended right across the centre of the specimen as well as through from front to back ) was a single crystal uniformly oriented throughout , and the paper deals with the behaviour of such uniformly oriented parts under the influence of strain .
It was found that by suitable etching a very beautiful system of geometrical pits ( which took the form of negative cubo-octahedra ) could be produced on the surface of the specimen , and by means of these any change of orientation could be readily observed .
In the first experiments described the specimens were strained in 1902 .
] Effects of Strain on the Crystalline Structure of Lead .
463 simple tension .
The slip lines ( the formation of which has already been described by Ewing and Kosenhain ) were found to occur such a manner that the plane of slip was parallel to an octahedral face of the etched pits .
As the specimen was strained , the surface , origma y plane , became slightly undulated , the undulations running diagonally across it , at an angle of about 45 ' to the direction of pull .
When the specimen was re-etched after straining these undulations were still visible as slight changes of orientation .
These undulations are apparently due to the strain not being uniform throughout the specimen .
Professor Ewing has suggested to the author how a non-homogeneous strain can give rise to differences in orientation in a single isolated crystal .
When slip occurs in any part , it tends to go on there rather than in other parts of the specimen .
This tends to localise the strain in certain parts , while other parts of the same crystal contiguous to them have not changed their shape , or have done so in a less degree .
It may thus happen that parts which were originally m parallel orientation become relatively displaced through the distortion of the material between , this acting as a strained wedge , and hence differences of orientation may arise within a single crystal . .
The next experiments deal with the recrystallisation which is observed to go on in an isolated crystal of lead when it has been strained .
When a single uniformly oriented crystal is in any way severely strained , it is seen upon re-etching that the orientation no longer remains uniform , but that the crystal has become ro en up into numerous small patches of various new orientations .
Many ot the patches thus formed consist of two or more parts which bear a twin relation to one another .
Change of this kind is more readily produced by compression than by tension , but it is produced by tensile strain when that is sufficiently severe .
The effect of subjecting large strained crystals to moderate temperatures ( up to 100 ' C. ) is next described , and it is shown that such cooking will produce further changes in the specimen .
If the originally uniformly oriented crystal exhibits any sign of recrystallisation upon etching immediately after straining , cooking will produce a far greater amount of change , the recrystallised areas extending outwards into t e parts of the crystal which before cooking had retained their original orientation .
Cooking also produces a recrystallisation in specimens which show no change immediately after straining , but a ceitain amount of straining is always necessary before any change can e produced . .
, Series of photographs are given showing the gradual change which proceeds when a single crystal is cooked after being strained .
rom these it is seen that a process of recrystallisation continues up to a certain point , but that beyond that point , further cooking at the same temperature produces no further change .
A series of photograp s is 464 Effects of Strain on the Crystalline Structure of Lead .
[ May 2\amp ; , also shown illustrating the similar , though much slower , progressive growth which goes on in a strained crystal at ordinary atmospheric temperature .
The final experiments were carried out in order to decide the question , whether the recrystallisation which is apparent immediately after re-etching a severely strained crystal is a direct and instantaneous effect of the strain , or is a growth which occurs during the interval of time that has elapsed between the straining and the examination .
The author has satisfied himself that the structural re-arrangement does not occur during the act of straining , like the re-arrangement ( by twinning ) which one can produce by straining a crystal of calcite .
It occurs after the strain has taken place , during the interval of time that elapses before the specimen is etched for examination , and though it requires only a short interval of time for its development , it is to be classed with the progressive growth demonstrated by Ewing and Rosenhain in their observations on the crystals of ordinary lead after straining .
The manner in which this was demonstrated was as follows :\#151 ; If the re-arrangement took place during the act of straining by successive twinning , the slip lines should , as the strain proceeded , form in new directions over the parts which had been already altered by the strain , and thus as more and more strain was given , various new systems of slip lines should appear , so grouped as to exhibit the twin character of the crystals produced .
It was , however , found that the slip lines gave no indication of any such change , but ran in directions which were parallel all over the strained crystal .
But when such a strained specimen was re-etched , or when a second strain was given after a short interval of time ( about 5 minutes ) , the patches of new orientation then became visible\#151 ; in the first case by the difference in orienta- , tion of the etched pits , and in the second by the appearance of numerous new systems of slip lines , parallel over certain small areas , but bearing no relation to the lines already produced by the first strain .
Even when the strain was continued to the limit of fracture no re-arrangement could be observed during its application .
It is to be concluded that there is no broad distinction between the change which is visible ( on etching ) almost immediately after straining and that which is observed to go on after any considerable lapse of time , or when the specimen is slightly warmed .

