The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
" The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
" By W. P. Herringham , M.B. , M.R.C.P. Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S. Received March 8 , \#151 ; Read March 25 , 1886 , It has for some time appeared probable that the spinal nerves which form the brachial plexus do not become confounded one with another , but retain each its separate course and its separate functions .
To the naked eye a nerve is a bundle of parallel threads bound together , and at the same time divided by a sheath of connective tissue .
It seemed to me possible that the course of the spinal nerve roots could be traced by a dissection which should follow each through the plexus to the nerves which branch therefrom , and in these to its final destination .
My dissections were partly upon foetuses or stillborn children , partly upon the adult .
The plexus of an infant is in some respects better , in some worse than that of an adult for an investigation of this kind .
On the one hand its minuteness needs the confirmation of larger tissues , but on the other hand the fibrous sheath uniting the nerves is very much weaker and less perfect , so that as in the case of the pectorals , the serratus magnus , and coraco-brachialis muscles , arrangements which in the adult need great care in dissection , can be seen in the infant without using the knife at all .
Adult bodies are best fitted for tracing fibres down a long nerve .
The present paper is based upon the dissection of fifty-five plexuses , thirty-two being foetal or infantile , and twenty-three adult .
The 5th cervical nerve as it lies between the scaleni gives off a branch which divides into the nerve to the rhomboids , and the upper root of the posterior thoracic .
The latter is joined by the root from the 6th , and lower down by one or sometimes two branches from the 7th .
In the adult the 5th and 6th usually join before the first digitations of the serratus magnus are reached , and receive the 7th about the level of the first rib .
It can generally , even in ad alts , be seen that the 7th joins the nerve below the twig given to the first part of the muscle formed by the two upper digitations , and it is often easy to separate the 5th from the 6th , and this from the 7th , so far as to show that the first part of the muscle is supplied wholly by the 5th , and the second by the 6th alone , or by the 5th and 6th , while the 7th does not give twigs until the third part is reached .
I have several times been able to show this to students in the dissecting room .
But in the foetus there is no dissection necessary .
The branch to the first part is given off before the 5th reaches the 6th , and the 7th does not enter Mr. W. P. Herringham .
the nerve until it has descended to the third or lowest part of the muscle .
The connective tissue which in the adult binds all the nerve together has not in the foetus yet grown up , and the system of the nerve is naturally exposed .
The supply of each nerve is variable .
If the 5th root is large it will send on fibres to supply with the 6th the middle of the muscle .
If it is small it spends itself entirely on the upper part , but however the different roots may vary in size I have never in the numerous dissections I have made seen them alter their relative positions .
Two typical examples from adults may be quoted .
In one , th# 5th gave twigs to the first three digitations , and then a small fibre to the 6th .
There was no root from the 7th .
In the other , the 5th supplied the first two , the 6th alone supplied the next two , and the 6th and 7th the remaining digitations .
In these there was no splitting of the nerve necessary .
The drawings shown were made from them .
Diagrammatic Sketch of Posterior Thoracic from two Adults .
V , VI , VII=Branches from 5th , 6th , and 7th roots .
1 , 2 , 3=First , second , and third parts of serratus magnus .
As the 5th leaves the scaleni it receives a communicating branch from the 4th , which therefore does not enter the rhomboid branch , or the posterior thoracic .
The communicating branch varies considerably in size .
I have at times been scarcely able to recognise the twig , at others it is a sixteenth of an inch thick .
In the remainder of the paper this branch is not separated from the 5th .
Soon after this the 5th root joins with the 6th .
It is usually at tlieir junction that the suprascapular nerve is given off , but it is not The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
uncommon to find it springing from the 5th before the junction is made .
When this is the case it contains no fibres from the 6th , but when given off at the junction it usually , though not always , receives a minute fibre from the 6th which passes either behind or through the fibres of the 5th to reach the suprascapular .
The 6th therefore exercises sometimes an extremely small influence , and sometimes none at all over the supra- and infra-spinatus .
The united 5th and 6th then divide into an anterior and a posterior branch.* The anterior joins with an anterior branch of the 7th to form the outer cord .
Just before their junction the united 5th and 6th gives off one , and the 7th two branches for the pectorals .
The upper branch from the 7th joins with that from the 5th and 6th to form the external anterior thoracic , which , piercing the costo-coracoid membrane , supplies the clavicular and the upper piece of the sternal part of the muscle as far down as the fibres which arise from the 2nd costal cartilage .
The lower 7th branch forms that which is usually called the communicating branch of the external anterior thoracic .
It has , however , a separate origin from the 7th trunk , and contains no fibre of the oth or Diagram of Anterior Thoracics .
Fig- .
3.\#151 ; As seen in Adults .
Kg .
4.\#151 ; As seen in a Foetus .
V\gt ; VI , VII , VIII , IX=5th , 6th , 7th , 8th cervical and 1st dorsal roots .
V + VI* VIII + IX=Trunks formed by union of these roots .
a=Twigs to clavicular division of pectoralis major .
by c , d=Twigs to upper , middle , and lower parts of the sternal division of the muscle .
X= " Communicating branch , " of which X2 goes over , X2 under , the pectoralis minor .
6th .
It runs under the costo-coracoid membrane over the axillary artery , and at the upper border of the pectoralis minor divides into two , of which one branch passes in front , running with the branches * Or the nerves may each divide before they join .
Mr , W. P. Heiringham .
of the acromial thoracic artery , to supply the pectoralis major ; the other goes behind the pectoralis minor , sends two twigs through it which supply it and the next parts of the pectoralis major , and close to the lower border of the muscle joins with the internal anterior thoracic which appears from under the artery .
The united nerve now supplies the lowest part of the pectoralis minor , and turning round its edge serves the lowest fibres of the pectoralis major .
This arrangement was constant in eight consecutive adult cases that I dissected .
I was , however , able in one of the foetal dissections to see more than this .
The branch from the 5th and 6th , before^joining the branch from the 7th , gave a twig which ran to the clavicular portion and which alone supplied that part .
The union of the 5tb , 6th , and 7th supplied the upper part of the sternal muscle .
The 7th served the middle as in the adult , but the internal anterior thoracic before receiving the 7th gave off a twig which supplied the lowest fibres of the pectoralis major , its union with the 7th serving the fibre next in order above these .
Of the nerves interested in the anterior thoracics the 7th always contributes .
Of thirteen dissections the 5th and 6th both gave branches to the external in five , the 6th alone in eight cases .
Of ten dissections the 8th and 9th both gave branches to the internal in eight cases , the 8th alone in two .
It appears , therefore , that the pectoralis major does not usually receive from the 5th , and does usually receive from the 9th.* Below these branches the 7th joins the 5th and 6th , thus forming the outer cord , which bifurcates into the musculo-cutaneous and the outer head of the median .
I have seen three cases where the musculocutaneous when about to pass under the biceps to the outer side of the arm gave back a large bundle to the median .
Two Of these cases were adult , and in them the returned bundle consisted in one wholly of the 6th root , in the other of fibres from both 6th and 7th .
The musculo-cutaneous is usually described as supplying the coraco-brachialis .
In the adult the nerve to this muscle is given off before the musculo-cutaneous enters it .
If traced up it is seen to come from the outer cord before the musculo-cutaneous leaves it , and ultimately from the 7th root in the outer cord .
It passes under the cord to get to the muscle .
Here again the system is very much clearer in the foetus , for in the foetal plexus the coraco-brachial nerve can be seen running from the 7th before it joins the 5th and 6th , and passing under the 5th and * The first dorsal I have here called , and shall ' henceforth call , the 9th spinal root , the 2nd and 3rd dorsal the 10th and 11th respectively .
The 9th receives at its origin a small branch from the 10th in the majority of cases. .
It is too small to dissect in the foetus , and the conditions of a dissecting room do not allow of its dissection in the adult .
I have therefore included it in the 9th root .
The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
427 6th to reach the muscle .
It is therefore quite distinct not only from the musculo-cutaneous , hut from the 5th and 6th also .
I have found this arrangement constant in the foetus in more than twelve consecutive cases , in fact ever since I first recognised it .
I have also seen it in the adult .
In one case , however , I found the muscle supplied not only by this nerve from the 7th , but also by a fibre from the 6th in the musculocutaneous .
The rest of the musculo-cutaneous , or as should be said , the musculocutaneous nerve proper , hardly ever contains any fibres other than those of the 5th and 6th .
In thirty-nine cases , twenty-one foetal and eighteen adult , the 7th only contributed to the musculo-cutaneous four times , twice in the foetus , and twice in the adult .
Of these four exceptions , in two the 7th could not be traced down the nerve , in a third it ran to the short head of the biceps , and in the fourth , an adult case , it entered the cutaneous branch only .
Twenty-eight cases were examined to see if both 5th and 6th entered the nerve .
In twenty-seven this was found to be the fact , in one , only the 5th was traced into it .
In eight cases the 5th and 6th were traced down the nerve .
Four of these were foetal , and four were adult .
The biceps was found to be served by both 5th and 6th in seven instances , in one the 5th alone was traced to the muscle .
The brachialis anticus was supplied by both the 5th and 6th in four cases , and by the 5th alone in four .
The cutaneous branch was found to contain fibres from both roots in six cases ; in one it was formed by the 6th and 7th .
The bundle from the 5th was noted as very small in two cases , and in two more was found to supply the skin over the outer condyle and the head of the radius , the nerve in the forearm being wholly derived from the 6th root .
In another case it ran down the forearm over the flexor carpi radialis in front of the branches from the 6th .
The remaining nerve given from the outer cord is the outer head of the median .
Into this the 5th does not enter .
Thirty-one dissections showed no exception to this rule .
The supply of the 5th by its anterior branch ends therefore with the musculo-cutaneous nerve .
The median is formed by two heads ; into the outer the 6th and 7th always enter , while the inner is formed always by branches of the 8th and 9th , sometimes with the addition of some bundles of the 7th .
This variety depends upon whether the anterior branch of the 7th bifurcates or goes wholly to the outer cord .
In order to see whether both 8th and 9th contribute to the median , twenty-eight dissections were made , fourteen in infants , fourteen in adults .
In one foetus , and in one adult , no branch from the 9th was found .
These two were , however , the only exceptions to the rule that both roots send fibres to the nerve .
The median then is made of the 6th , 7th , 8th , Mr. W. P. Herrin gham .
and 9th .
But these roots do not send to it a constant proportion .
There is little variation in the size of the 6th bundle , the 7th varies considerably , the 8th is sometimes equal to , sometimes smaller than , and sometimes larger than the 9th .
The 6th bundle runs down the outer side of the nerve from the top to the bottom , though in dissection the nerve generally becomes so twisted that it seems otherwise .
In the lower third of the arm a pair of fibres are seen crossing from the outer to the inner side .
These are the nerves to the pronator teres and the flexor carpi radialis .
They are given off almost always by the 6th , and they usually run over in front of the nerve to reach the muscles .
I have , however , dissected them running through the nerve and separating the other bundles .
The nerve to the pronator usually divides into two before it reaches the muscle , and is sometimes double from the beginning .
With the nerve to the flexor carpi radialis runs a nerve to the other flexors , but this comes from a lower root .
In eight cases where the 6th and 7th were not separated , these two muscles were supplied by the combined bundle .
The nerve to the pronator teres was traced seventeen times to the 6th , once to the 7th ; that to the flexor carpi radialis thirteen times to the 6th , twice to the 7th ; neither to any other nerve .
The 6th does not supply any other muscles in the forearm .
The 7th was traced nine times to the flexor sublimis , and in four of these it also contributed to the anterior interosseous .
It is to be noted that in two of these four it also formed part of the ulnar .
Of the five cases when it did not go to the anterior interosseous the ulnar was traced in four , and did not in any of these receive from the 7th .
Where then the 7th goes to the anterior interosseous it is probable that it will form also part of the ulnar ; when it is excluded from the ulnar it probably does not contribute to the anterior interosseous .
In seven cases no branch could be traced to the flexor sublimis .
The 8th and 9th usually supply the flexor sublimis , and always the deep flexors .
In seventeen instances the flexor sublimis received from them fourteen times , and three times did not receive from them .
The two nerves were separated six times in adults , with the result that they seemed to mingle in all muscular branches in the forearm , and that no muscle could be said to belong to the one and not to the other .
After the forearm muscles have been supplied , the remainder of the median which comes from under the flexor sublimis always contains fibres from the 6th , 7th , and 8fch roots , and sometimes a bundle from the 9th .
The 6th was traced separately eleven times , and the 7th seven times in this part of the nerve .
Neither was ever found absent .
The distribution of the lower two roots in the hand was traced in eleven cases .
In six of these they were not separated ; iu the other five the The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
429 9th ran to the hand in two only ; in three of these , and in one other case , it was seen to end in the muscles of the forearm .
Of these six cases two were foetal , the rest adult .
The 8th always ran to the hand .
As a rule then the median in the hand contains only fibres from the 6th , 7th , and 8th .
The palmar cutaneous branch was five times noted , twice coming from the 6th , three times from the 7th .
The branch to the superficial muscles of the thumb was eleven times dissected .
In eight cases it came from the 6th , in three from the undivided 6th and 7th , never from the 8th or 9th .
The five digital branches* were more variously distributed .
The first branch was traced fourteen times , nine times to the 6th , and five times to the united 6th and 7th .
The second was traced fourteen times , six times to the 6th , five times to a united 6th and 7th , twice to both 6th and 7th , and once to the 7th alone .
The third was traced eleven times , twice to the 6th , five times to a united 6th and 7th , once to both 6th and 7th , and thrice to the 7th .
The fourth was traced eleven times , once to a united 6th and 7th , three times to the 7th , twice to the 8th , once to a united 8th and 9th , and in four the radial side of the cleft was supplied by the 7th or the united 6th and 7th , and the ulnar side by the lower nerves .
The 5th was traced eleven times ; in one the 7th served the radial side of the cleft , the other side being supplied by the united 8th and 9th , in three the 8th alone , in five the undivided 8th and 9th , in one both 8th and 9th ( the latter taking the ulnar half ) , and in one the 9th alone supplied it .
These figures are confusing to read , but the table shows that the first branch is always supplied by the highest nerve , the last always from one of the lowest , and that in no case is there a break in the order of supply from the one to the other .
No. of case .
l. 2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
13 .
Digital branches .
1 i 6 1 6 6 2 U + 7f 6 \gt ; 6 + 7 V 6 + 7 7 6 3 7 7 4 7,8 + 9 8 + 9 7,8 + 9 8 + 9 J 8 6 + 7,8 + 9 8 + 9 8 + 9 8 + 9 5 9 * 1st , radial side of thumb j 2nd , ulnar ditto ; 3rd , radial of index j 4th , cleft between index and 3rd finger ; 5th , cleft betwten 3rd and 4th finger .
t The sign + means that the two nerves were not separated .
In Case 1 the first three branches arose from the bundle formed by the union of the 6th and 7th , the fourth had two roots , one from the 7th alone , the other from the bundle formed by the union of the 8th and 9th .
Mr. W. P. Herrin gham .
No. of case .
14 .
15 .
23 .
42 .
43 .
52 .
53 .
54 .
Digital branches .
1 .
6 6 6 6 6 .
6 1 2 6 6 6 6 6.7 6.7 8 6,7 7 U + 7 \gt ; 6 + 7 3 6 6 4 7 7 7 6 + 7,8 8 J 5 7,8 + 9 8 8,9 8 8 + 9 The origin of the ulnar nerve was traced in thirty-two cases , of which fourteen were adult .
It was found to arise in four different ways .
Its most common origin is from the 8th and 9th together .
This occurred in twenty -three cases , eleven foetal and twelve adult .
With these is sometimes combined a strand from the 7th , as shown in five cases , four foetal and one adult .
In three foetal cases it arose from the 8 th only , and in one foetal , and one adult case from the 7th and 8th .
The 7th is only added to the nerve in some of those cases where it gives a branch to the inner cord .
In several cases the branch from the 8th was much larger than that from the 9th .
I have never seen the reverse .
The nerve was split down in seven instances , of which two were foetal .
One of these had fibres of the 7th in it which , however , were not traced separately .
Branches were traced to the muscles of the forearm from both nerves in five cases , in two from the 8th alone .
The anterior cutaneous branches were in four cases from the 9th , in one apparently from the 8th .
The dorsal cutaneous was in all seven a branch of the 8th .
The superficial division in the hand going to the fingers was traced in all , and in three contained fibres from both 8th and 9th , in the other four was wholly from the 9th , while the deep or muscular branch traced in six was in five wholly from the 8th , and in the sixth received also from the 9th .
According then to these dissections the 8th and 9th usually both supply the forearm muscles , the 8th gives the dorsal cutaneous , and serves the intrinsic muscles of the hand , while the 9th gives sensation to the skin on the palmar surface of the hand , and of the lower third of the forearm .
The origin of the internal cutaneous was noted twenty-three times in my dissections .
Nine times it contained a fibre from the 8th as well as the 9th , fourteen times it sprang from the 9th alone .
In two cases of the former class the 8th was separated from the 9th in the nerve .
In the one the 9th alone supplied the skin of the arm , the 8th not entering the skin until below ; in the other the 9th was seen to supply the skin of the arm and of the front of the forearm , while the 8th ran to the back of the forearm .
The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
431 The lesser internal cutaneous is derived in all but very rare exceptions from the 9th alone .
In twenty cases it only once received from the 8th also .
The posterior branches of the nerve roots unite to form the posterior cord .
Each of the four upper roots contributes to the cord , but the 9th rarely joins it .
Out of forty-five cases where the point is noted , a fibre from the 9 th occurs only six times , three times in foetal , three in adult cases .
In one of these there was an unusually large root from the 10th nerve .
In many adults the branch to the posterior cord can be seen to leave the 8th root before this is joined by the 9th .
It may be taken then , as a rule , that the 9th does not contribute to the posterior cord .
In the six exceptions the fibre from the 9th was invariably very small , and ran with the 8th , from which it was not isolated .
The branches of the posterior cord are the three subscapulars , the circumflex , and the musculo-spiral .
The first subscapular , which serves the subscapularis muscle , is often double , sometimes triple .
It never receives from the 7th or 8th root , and is often wholly or partly given off from the 5th and 6th before they are joined by the 7th .
Dissection shows that even when given off after the junction the 7th has still no share in it .
This rule was invariable in forty-one cases .
In twenty-three of these a dissection was made to see to which of the two upper roots the nerve was to be traced .
It was found to come from the 5th in eleven cases , from the 6th in three , and from both in nine .
I believe that owing to my not being sufficiently mindful that the muscle often receives more than one nerve , I have referred too large a number to the 5th alone .
Whether this be so or no , it does not represent the whole supply given to it , for the lower part of the muscle always receives fibres from the second subscapular on its way to the teres major .
This is a nerve of rather lower origin than the preceding .
It was traced three times to the 5th , all foetal cases ; thirteen times to the undivided 6th and 5th ; four times to the 6th alone , one being an adult case ; nine times to both 5th and 6th , seven being adult cases ; nine times to both 6th and 7th , seven being adult cases ; and thrice it was formed by a branch from the cord of the upper two roots , and one from the 7th .
This shows out of forty-one cases twelve in which the 7th contributed to the nerve , and twenty-nine in which it was excluded .
There were only three in which the supply lay above the 6th , and thirteen where it lay wholly below the 5 th .
The question then arose\#151 ; When the 7th enters the nerve , does it form part of the twigs which supply the subscapularis ?
I divided the nerve in three such cases , and found that in each the 7th went entirely to the teres major .
The lower part of the subscapularis , however , is served , though not Mr. W. P. Herringham .
by the 7th , yet by a nerve which is of lower origin than the first subscapular .
Thus in four instances , three of them adult , where the first subscapular came from the 5th alone , the second contained no 5th , and in these cases the lower part of the muscle was supplied by a lower nerve .
This confirms also three other adult dissections of the first subscapular .
In one it was triple ; the first twig going to the upper fibres of the muscle ran from the 5th , the next to the middle fibres from the 5th and 6th , and the third from the 6th alone , below which came a twig from the second subscapular .
In the two other cases the nerve was double , the upper twig coming from the 5th , the lower from the 6th root .
The third subscapular going to the latissimus dorsi was traced in forty-two cases .
Once it came from the 5th and 6th alone , three times it was formed by the 7th and a branch from the undivided 5th and 6th , four times by the 7th and a branch from the 6th ( once with an addition from the 8th also ) , twenty-one times from the 7th alone , and thirteen from both 7th and 8th .
It is to be noted that in these three muscles there seems a regular progression from above downwards .
The latissimus dorsi is usually served by a lower nerve than the teres , and this by a lower than the subscapularis , and though they are occasionally equalised their positions in the series are never reversed .
The circumflex nerve was shown in forty-three cases to be derived from the 5th and 6th alone .
It never received a fibre from the 7th .
In six cases , two of them adult , it came from the 5th alone , in twenty-two from both 5 th and 6th , and in the remainder it was undivided .
It never arose from the 6th alone , and in many cases where both nerves helped to form it the branch from the 6th was so small that it could not be traced without breakage .
I dissected the nerve three times .
In all these the teres minor was supplied by the 5th only , and the deltoid by both 5th and 6th .
The cutaneous branch was in one from the 5th alone , in the other two received a fibre from the 6th also .
The musculo-spiral is formed sometimes by all four of the upper roots , usually by the 6th , 7th , and 8th alone .
Out of forty-six cases the 5th and 6th were undivided in twelve , in nine of the remaining thirty-four the 5th helped to form the nerve .
Two of these were adult .
In twenty-five , fourteen of which were adult , it was excluded .
In one adult case where the 5th entered the nerve it was found by dissection to run to the external cutaneous branch alone .
The branch first given off is the nerve to the long head of the triceps , with which sometimes goes the internal cutaneous branch .
The former was twelve times given from the 8th root , thrice from both 7th and 8th , and once from the 7th alone .
The internal The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
433 cutaneous was seven times noted separately , in all of which it came from the 8th alone .
That part of the muscle which arises below the musculo-spiral groove , commonly called the inner head , receives the ulnar collateral nerve on its inner part , and another branch which also serves the anconeus in its outer part .
These two nerves were in six instances derived from the 8th only , in three from both 7th and 8th , in two from the 7th only , and in one from the 7th with the addition of a fibre from the 6th .
In eleven cases where the supply of the outer head of the triceps was traced separately , it came from the 8th alone once only , from both 7th and 8th twice , from the 7th alone twice , from the 6th and 7th once , and from the 6th alone in five cases .
In fourteen instances the nerves to the separate heads were not traced apart , but the whole muscle together with the internal cutaneous branch was in all supplied below the 6th .
In three more the inner and outer heads were taken together , and in these also the supply was from the 7th and 8th .
The 6th therefore only entered the triceps in five out of twenty-eight cases , and it is to be noted that in No. 19 , the only case where the 6th entered the inner head , it wholly supplied the outer .
The next branches given off are the two external cutaneous .
The short branch was noticed in fourteen cases .
Eight times it was shown to come from the 6th alone , once from both 5th and 6th , and in the remaining five from the first two roots , the 5th not being excluded .
The long branch sprang from the 6th five times , in two of which the 5th was not excluded , from both 6th and 7th once , from the 7th thrice , from the 7th and 8th four times , * and from the 8th thrice .
The nerve then supplies the brachialis anticus .
The branch , or branches , going to this muscle , which are very small , were isolated eight times .
They were traced each time to the 6th , but in three cases the 5th was not excluded .
The branch to the supinator longus was traced twenty-two times , always to the 6th , but in twelve cases the 5th was not excluded .
The extensor carpi radialis longior was served twelve times by the 6th alone ( in eight the 5th was not excluded ) , once by both the 6th and the lower nerves , and ten times by the lower part of the musculo-spiral , in four of which the 7th alone was traced to it , in five the 7th and 8th were not separated , and in one both were found supplying it .
The brevior was supplied by the 6th six times , in four of which the 5th was not excluded , once by both the 6th and the lower nerves , and nine times by the lower nerves alone , in four of which the 7th was the agent , and in one both 7th and 8th .
* In one case formed by the 7th and 8th the twig from the 7th ran nearer the radial border than that from the 8th .
Mr. W. P. Herringham .
The nerve to the supinator brevis was traced thirteen times , in every case to the 6th , but in five the 5th was not excluded .
The two remaining divisions are the radial and the posterior interosseous .
The former was composed by the 6th alone thirteen times , in seven of which the 5th was not excluded , twelve times it was partly formed by the lower nerves .
In all the seven cases when the two lower nerves had been divided the 7th alone was found to share in the radial .
I was able in only one case to dissect the radial consisting of both 6th and 7th .
In it the 6th supplied the ball and dorsum of the thumb and the radial side of the index , while the 7th took the remainder .
The posterior interosseous was in seven cases formed by the lower nerves entirely .
In four it received also part of the upper nerves .
The question arose whether the 8th ever entered the muscles of the forearm .
Out of sixteen dissections , eleven foetal and five adult , twelve of which four were adult showed the 8th to cease before the forearm muscles were reached , four of which two were adult showed the 8th coming round to the back of the arm .
In two of these latter the 7th and 8th formed equal parts of the posterior interosseous ; in the other two cases the 8th gave so minute a fibre to the nerve below the triceps that I could not trace it separately .
In several of these cases the 5th was not excluded from the musculo-spiral , and must therefore be considered as a possible source of the supply , but it must be remembered that the probability of its taking part in the nerve is only , as before shown , nine in thirty-four , and that when dissected in the nerve it was found only to enter the short external cutaneous branch .
These results show considerable variation in the distribution of the nerve roots , although I do not think it is greater than in any other of the structures of the body .
But this variation is not extravagant .
If a type be composed from the foregoing materials and compared with the varieties , it appears that if a muscle or a piece of skin is not supplied by the typical nerve , the place is filled only by one of its neighbours , not by a nerve far removed from it in the series .
The teres major usually supplied by the 6th is on occasion supplied by the 5th , and sometimes by the 7th , never by the 8th or 9th .
Again , some muscles seem to bear definite relations to each other , and their nerve supply seems also to vary solidly , so that the relative position of the muscles judged by their nerve supply does not alter although they be not served by the usual nerve .
The best example of this is in the three muscles which are attached along the inner side of the bicipital groove , the subscapularis , teres major , and latis-simus dorsi .
The first is usually supplied by the 5th and 6th , the The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
435 second by the 6th , and the last by the 7th , and however much they vary above and below their typical place , they do not change their relations to each other .
A similar relation exists between the two supinators and the two radial extensors .
These last are sometimes supplied by the 6th , sometimes by the 7th , but they are never in any case placed above the supinators .
These are always supplied by the 6th alone .
The flexor group in the forearm show a similar fixed relation .
From consideration of the usual regularity of the nerve supply , and of the limits within which alone it varies , I conclude that ' the nerve roots are not always composed of the same fibres , but that what is in one case the lower bundle of the 5th may be in another the upper of the 6th , and what is now the upper bundle of the 8th will at another time be the lower of the 7th root .
This may be expressed as a law .
LAW I.\#151 ; Any given fibre may alter its position relative to the vertebral column , but will maintain its position relative to other fibres .
It is to confirm laws that exceptions are important .
One of my infants showed on both sides a larger root from the 10th or 2nd dorsal nerve than was usual .
On the right side the nerve was slightly bigger than the natural , but on the left it was as large as the 9th , and this as large as the 8th , whereas the natural proportion of the 8th to the 9th is about 2 to 1 , and the 10th root is a minute fibre only .
On the right side the only abnormality in the plexus was that the 9th sent a branch to the musculo-spiral .
But on the left the musculo* cutaneous received from the 7th , the median received no 6th , the teres major was supplied by the 7th alone , the circumflex received from the 7th , and the musculo-spiral was formed by the 7th , 8th , and 9th .
In the ulnar both 8th and 9th entered the deep branch in the hand .
Nevertheless the 4th sent a communication to the 5th , and the suprascapular and subscapular were given off normally .
It appears that in this case the representation of the muscles in the spinal cord began at the ordinary level , but was more than usually lengthened out , its lowest point sinking so far that the 10th nerve conveyed an excessive proportion of fibres to the plexus .
This unusual formation of the peripheral nerves still maintains the relative position of the muscles .
I do not , however , find that every muscle comprised in the table holds , fixed relations with all others .
There appear to be groups of muscles which are not intimately related .
Thus the rise or fall of the three subscapular nerves does not entail a like movement in the nerves of the forearm .
I have drawn up from my dissections the following table , giving the usual supply of the muscles of the upper limb .
VOL. xli .
2 o Mr. W. P. Herringham .
Muscles .
Levator anguli scapulae .
Rhomboids .
Supra-spinatus .
Infra-spinatus .
Teres minor .
Subscapularis .
Deltoid .
Biceps .
Brachialis anticns .
Teres major .
Pronator teres .
Plexor carpi radialis .
Supinator longus and brevis .
Superficial thenar muscles .
Serratus magnus .
Extensores carpi radialis .
Coraco-brachialis .
Latissimus dorsi .
Extensors at back of forearm .
Outer head of triceps .
Inner head of triceps .
Flexor sublimis .
Flexor profundus , carpi ulnaris , longus pollicis , and pronator quadratus .
Long head of triceps .
Hypothenar muscles .
Interossei .
Deep thenar muscles .
The pectoralis major receives from the 6th , 7tb , 8th , and 9th ; the minor from the 7th , 8th , and 9th .
The question next arises upon what system are these muscles innervated ?
Is it a system of form or of function P Are muscles supplied by the same nerve because they act together or because they lie near one another ?
In the first place the movements of the arm are so varied that there is hardly any combination of muscles unrepresented .
In the commonest and most necessary of all acts , that of putting a piece of food into the mouth , the food is grasped by the small muscles of the thumb and the interossei , the carpus is flexed upon the forearm , the forearm is half pronated and flexed upon the arm , and the pectoralis major draws the limb forward across the chest .
Doubtless many other muscles take an unrecognised share also .
But of those here mentioned the anatomy of ordinary text-books shows that some , the flexors of the elbow , are served by the outer cord , the 5th , 6th , and 7th , whilst the interossei are supplied by the ulnar from the 8th and 9th .
According to my dissections that one action is brought about through every nerve in the plexus , and there is no action which does not involve several nerves at once .
Looking at the theory from another point of view , is it true that muscles which cause the same movement , or which continually con- Usual nerve supply .
3rd , 4th , and 5th 5th .
5th , or 5th and 6th .
5th and 6th .
6 th .
5th , 6th , and 7th .
6th or 7th .
7th .
7th and 8th .
7th , 8th , and 9th .
8th .
The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
437 tr\amp ; ct together , are supplied by the same nerve ?
The action of the two pronators is indistinguishable , but the teres is supplied by the 6th , and the quadratus by the 8th and 9th j the thumb is always acting with the fingers , yet the superficial thenar muscles are served by the 6th , and the others by the 8th .
It seems then certain that the place where functions are represented is higher than the peripheral nerves , and that these are distributed according to some other plan .
The other system that suggests itself is the system according to place , and I find that the nerve supply of the muscles of the upper limb obeys three rules .
LAW IT.\#151 ; A. Of two muscles , or of two parts of a , that which is nearer the head-end of the body tends to be supplied by the higher , that which is nearer the tail-end by the lower nerve .
B. Of two muscles , that which is nearer the long axis of the body tends to be supplied by the higher , that which is nearer the periphery by the lower nerve .
C. Of two muscles , that which is nearer the surface tends to be supplied by the higher , that which is further from it by the lower nerve .
The first rule has been already clearly exemplified in the supply of large flat muscles which receive more than one nerve , such as the pectoralis major and serratus magnus .
The subscapularis is also an example .
In all these muscles it was shown that the upper parts were supplied by upper , the lower by relatively lower nerves .
It remains to show how it is exemplified in the remainder of the muscles belonging to the limb .
It has been laid down that in the first position of the foetus the great tuberosity and the external condyle of the humerus , the radius and the thumb are turned towards the head ; the lesser tuberosity , the internal condyle , the ulna , and the little finger towards the tail .
The first set of points have been called pre-axial , the latter post-axial .
The muscles corresponding with the pre-axial points will be found to be supplied by higher nerves than those connected with post-axial points at the same level of the limb .
Of the muscles which connect the scapula to the spine , the highest is the levator anguli scapulae .
This is supplied by the 3rd and 4th , and slightly by the 5th .
Below this come the rhomboids supplied by the 5th alone .
Of the muscles which join the humerus to the scapula those inserted into the outer or pre-axial tuberosity are supplied by the 5th , with very slight , if any , aid from the 6th .
Of those going to the post-axial part , the subscapularis , which is the highest , is supplied by the 5th and 6th ; the teres major below it is supplied by the 6th , the latissimus dorsi which comes from lower down the body , and the 438 Mr. W. P* Herrin gham .
coraco-brachialis continuing down the post-axial border , are served by the 7th.* Of the muscles running to the upper end of the forearm , the biceps and brachialis anticus are supplied from the 5th and 6th ; the triceps by the 7th and 8th , and it is remarkable that , of the three heads of the triceps the outer , which is nearest to the pre-axial border , is the highest in the series .
At this point the 5th ends .
Of the muscles arising about the outer condyle , the highest in rank are the two supinators inserted into the radius , next the extensors of the carpus going to the radial side of the hand .
Of those coming from the internal condyle , the two outermost , nearest , that is , to the radius , are supplied by the 6th .
The innermost , the flexor carpi ulnaris , is supplied by the 8th and 9th ( and at this point the 9th first begins to share in the system ) ; the flexor sublimis , between the two , is supplied by the 7th and the lower nerves .
None of- the deep muscles are served by the 6th , and the 7tn seldom runs to them .
They are as a rule innervated by the lowest of the series .
Passing to the hand , the superficial muscles on the outer side are supplied by the 6th , the superficial on the inner side by the 8th , the deep muscles being again supplied by the lowest of the nerves supplying the hand , namely , the 8th .
It is remarkable and unexpected that the 8th and not the 9th should be the nerve going to the muscles of the hand .
The explanation I would suggest is that the motor part of the 9th is rather an auxiliary nerve than an integral part of the plexus .
The extremely small part which it often plays in the ulnar , and the fact that in two cases none of its fibres could be traced thither at all , confirm this view .
The cutaneous supply of the limb exemplifies still more clearly the first of the rules laid down for the motor system .
Over the deltoid runs the descending branch from the 3rd and 4th , below this comes the circumflex from the 5th , or from the 5th and 6th .
The branch of the 5th in the musculo-cutaneous , and the short external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral given by the 6th , supply the skin over the outer condyle and head of the radius .
Down to the end of the radius it is served by the musculo-cutaneous , either from the 6th alone , or as in one case by the 5th and 6th ; the thumb is supplied by the 6th in the median and radial .
On the inner side , the highest part , the skin of the axilla , is served by the 10th , the area below this by the junction of the 9th and 10th ( the intercosto-humeral with the nerve of Wrisberg ) , next by the 9th * The deltoid , which would also exemplify the law , is omitted .
I consider it uniform with the pectoralis major , not truly part of the long muscles of the limb .
The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
439 in the internal cutaneous which runs down to the wrist .
The little finger is supplied by the 9th in front , and by the 8th behind ; the front of the three middle fingers by the 7th and 8th , the back by the 6th and 7th .
In the sensory system , therefore , as in the motor , the upper nerves can be traced down the pre-axial , and the lowest down the post-axial border ; but a remarkable difference appears between the sensory and the motor system .
Whereas in the latter it seemed the tendency for the lowest nerves to supply the lowest muscles , in , the sensory nerves the extreme are nearest the upper , the middle nerves nearest the lower extremity of the limb .
Thus , if the limb be seen from the front the two highest nerves on the outer and inner sides respectively are the 4th and the 10th .
Lower than these the 5th and 6th take the outer , the 9th and 10th the inner side .
Below the elbow the 6th alone takes the outer , and the 9th alone the inner .
In the hand , while the 6th and 9th continue their positions , the 7th and 8th for the first time begin to join in the supply .
Below ohe elbow a distinction begins to appear between the dorsal and palmar surfaces .
If a line be drawn round the lower third of the forearm from the middle of the front surface to the radial border , across the dorsum , round the ulna , and so to the middle line again , it will cut in order cutaneous branches of the 6th , 7th , 8th , and 9th .
Thus on the outer side behind the 6th in the musculo-cutaneous comes the musculo-spiral cutaneous from the 7th , and on the inner side behind the 9th in the internal cutaneous comes the dorsal cutaneous formed by the 8th .
When the 8th was dissected in the internal cutaneous it was found going to the dorsum , and where the 7th and 8th joined to form the musculo-spiral branch the 7th lay nearest of the two to the radial border .
In the fingers , again , the 8th is the lowest nerve supplying the back .
The 9th the lowest in front .
The extremes therefore are on the palmar , the dorsal area occupies an intermediate position .
Above the elbow the 8th in the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral , holding a position intermediate between the 10th in the intercosto-humeral , and the 5th and 6th in the circumflex , is an example of the same law .
The sensory nerves therefore obey the following rules:\#151 ; A. Of two spots on the shin that which is nearer the pre-axial border tends to be supplied by the higher nerve .
B. Of two spots in the pre-axial area the lower tends to be supplied by the lower nerve , and of two spots in the post-axial area the lower tends to be supplied by the higher nerve .
This , however unexpected , is not very difficult to understand .
The ' Mr. W. P. Herringham .
epiblastic layer which , forms the skin ensheaths the mesoblast , from which the deeper structures are developed .
Suppose nerves , or what will afterwards become nerves , to be distributed to both .
The mesoblast now begins to grow and pushes before it the enveloping sheath of epiblast .
But , as may be seen with a piece of india-rubber , in any such process the points furthest from the centre of pressure remain nearest the top of the tube , and the point which was in the middle when the stretching began , will be at the furthest point of the sheath when it is finished .
If in the arm the centre of pressure be supposed opposite to the area supplied by the 7th nerve , this nerve will always tend to supply the parts lying nearest the axis of the limb , and furthest from the axis of the body , while the 6th , 5th , and 4th in the pre-axial , and the 8th , 9th , and 10th in the post-axial area , will in that order approach the trunk .
This is the case .
It appears then that in both sensory and motor systems the pre-axial area is supplied by higher nerves , the post-axial by lower ; that the supply of the skin follows rules which obtain in any membrane subject to the same conditions , but that the supply of the muscles is modified by laws peculiar to themselves .
This subject has not to my knowledge been before this investigated by human dissections .
Ferrier's* classification of the muscles by means of electric stimulation of the spinal roots in monkeys , though he explains the system as one of function , is not far removed from that now put forward .
Forgue , + who stimulated not the spinal roots , but the branches which they gave to the nerves of the plexus , and who watched the contraction of dissected muscles , draws up the following list for monkeys:\#151 ; Median .
J f 5 and 6 / Brachialis anticus .
Clavicular part of Median J l deltoid .
Pronator teres .
Flexor carpi radialis .
exteme .
\ 7 f Biceps slightly .
Pronator teres .
Flexor carpi \ radialis .
Pronator teres and flexor carpi radialis slightly .
Flexor sublimis .
Flexor profundus .
Flexor carpi ulnaris .
Intrinsic muscles of hand .
M4d !
an Is and 9 intern .
J * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 32 , 1881 , p. 12 .
.f * Distribution des Racines Motrices dans les Muscles des Membres.* fimile Forgue .
Montpellier , 1883 .
Page 45 .
J Forgue 's median is both median and musculo-cutaileous .
Median externe is the musculo-cutaneous and the outer head of the median , median intern the inner head .
rllie Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
Radial.* 5 and 6 l from scapula .
Supinator longus .
Extensores carpi 1 radiales .
\#171 ; f Latissimus dorsi .
Teres major .
Triceps .
Extensores carpi L radiales .
Extensors slightly .
8 and 9 . .
Latissimus dorsi .
Triceps .
Extensors .
Cubital.f Flexor profundus .
Flexor carpi ulnaris .
Intrinsic muscles of hand .
He lays down also the following laws:\#151 ; J 1 .
Each root furnishes branches to two systems , an anterior and a posterior .
S 2 .
As the stimulus approaches the dorsal pairs , the contraction occurs in lower segments of the limb .
3 .
As the stimulus approaches the dorsal pairs , the contractions pass from the radial to the ulnar border .
He also adds\#151 ; " It is a secondary law that the superficial layers are supplied before the deep .
" Both these observers worked with monkeys , and Forgue 's laws are , with the exception of the first , identical with those which human dissections have produced for me .
That the details should exactly correspond is not to be expected in two different genera when individuals of the same vary so widely .
Electrical stimulation does not show the sensory supply .
I have often tried to complete this account by dissecting the nerves upwards to the spinal cord .
I have , however , never been able to rely on the results .
The connective tissue permeating the nerve separates and protects the bundles of nerve fibres composing it , and renders their dissociation impossible .
But as the nerve nears the intervertebral foramen this tissue very rapidly diminishes , hud in the foramen the root consists of nerve bundles with hardly any connective tissue between them .
The nerve bundles in the adult might perhaps be separated even here from one another , but in the foetus , and these alone are for this purpose accessible to me , their minuteness and their softness have prevented any satisfactory dissection .
* The radial here means the posterior cord of the plexus .
t Ulnar .
t Pp .
41-48 .
S This refers to the adult position .
A truer view is to take the earliest observed position in the foetus .
VOL. XL1 .

