VII .
" On the Effect of Changes of Temperature on the Specific Inductive Capacity of Dielectrics .
" By Sir W. THOMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. [ The publication of the text of this paper is postponed .
] 470 June 17 , 1869 .
Lieut.-General SABINE , President , in the Chair .
Mr. J. Ball , Mr. J. N. Lockyer , and Vice-Admiral Sir Spencer Robinson were admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read : I. " Note on Professor Sylvester 's representation of the Motion of a free rigid Body by that of a material Ellipsoid rolling on a rough Plane .
" By the Rev. N. M. FERRiERS , Fellow and Tutor of Caius College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. SYLVESTER .
Received May 29 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is intended as a sequel to Professor Sylvester 's paper above mentioned , which was published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1866 .
The notation , so far it differs from Professor Sylvester 's , is as follows:p is the distance from the centre of the ellipsoid to the rough plane .
X the ( constant ) component angular velocity of the ellipsoid about the diameter normal to the rough plane .
p the component angular velocity of the ellipsoid about the diameter parallel to the projection of the instantaneous axis on the rough plane .
1h , , khp'are the component angular momenta about these diameters respectively .
At about the diameter at right angles to both .
n the angular velocity , in space , of the plane through the instantaneous axis perpendicular to the rough plane .
Then the mass of the ellipsoid being taken , as in Professor Sylvester 's paper , to be unity , it is proved that a= ; ( a2 + b2 +c 2--p\)X 2 The following theorem is then established:- " The component angular momentum of the ellipsoid about any diameter parallel to the rough plane is equal to p , multiplied into the component velocity of the point of contact of the ellipsoid and rough plane , in the direction at right angles to this diameter .
" It hence follows that p2 dt = p2 whence it is proved that Fr=_-2 2= , ht dt jj 1869 .
] 471 and that p=p(I d n2 2 ) These results are then reduced into the following form : P=p ( l- ; --2 213 X Fr 2 .
{ _(2+f yX2)(p2+ yaX2)(p2 + aOX2 ) } .
, a2 2 respectively .
where a , 3 , y are written for 1- , 1--- , 1respectively .
p2 ' p2 'P In the last clause of the paper it is pointed out that Poinsot 's " rolling and sliding cone " is a particular case of Professor Sylvester 's " correlated and contrarelated bodies .
"

