200 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On Professor E. David 's rooms ; and , hence , that there is no safety against the increase of the organism in ordinary living rooms in which active tuberculous dust is present , and in which the natural disinfectants of the bacillus , fresh air and light , are not present in sufficient amount to destroy their virulence .
" Summary of Professor Edgeworth David 's Preliminary Report on the Results of the Boring in the Atoll of Funafuti .
" Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonnet .
F.R.S. , Vice-Chairman of the Coral Reef Boring Committee .
Received November 25 , \#151 ; Read November 25 , 1897 .
The boring at Funafuti , according to the latest advices , had reached a depth of 643 feet .
Professor David 's report is transcribed from notes made during the progress of the work , and gives his first impressions of the materials brought up , down to a depth of 557 feet , which had been reached when he quitted the island to return to his duties at , Sydney , leaving the work in charge of his assistant .
The latest advices informed him that the boring was arrested at 643 feet , but as it was hoped this was only for a time , we are daily expecting to hear yet more gratifying news .
His last letters , received during the present week , give a few particulars of the materials pierced between 557 and 643 feet .
The work , Professor David states , often presented most serious difficulties , which would probably have frustrated their efforts , but for the experience gained on the former occasion .
The bore hole is situated about half a mile N.E. of the Mission Church , and its height above 'sea level is about 1 foot above high water mark at spring tides .
The diameter is 5 inches down to 68 feet ; it is lined with 5-inch tubing down to 118 feet , and 4-inch from surface to 520 feet , so that on September 6 a 4-inch core was being obtained .
The following is a general description of the materials pierced :\#151 ; For about a yard at the top there was a hard coral breccia .
This was followed down to a depth of 40 feet by " coral reef rock , " into the composition of which Ueliopora cerulea , with spines of echinids and nullipores , entered largely , the last predominating over the coral at from 15 to 20 feet .
From 40 to 200 feet came more or less sandy material , but with a variable quantity of corals .
These were scattered through the sand ( calcareous and of organic origin ; foraminifera , at about 40 feet , making from one-half to two-thirds of the whole ) sometimes as fragments ( forming occasionally a kind of rubble ) , but sometimes in the position of growth .
Between 120 and 130 feet , and from about 190 to 200 feet , the material Report on the Boring in the Atoll of Funafuti .
201 is described as fairly compact coral rock , so that very probably reefs in situ , though of no great thickness , were pierced at these depths .
The sand appears to be largely derived from coral , but foraminifera occur , sometimes in abundance ; so too do nullipores , and here and there spines of echinids .
Towards 150 feet signs of change begin to appear in the corals , and these become more conspicuous as the boring approaches its greatest depth .
In such case , if I understand rightly , some of the branching corals crumble away and are represented only by casts , while others remain , the surrounding matrix becoming solid , cemented apparently by calcite .
Below 202 feet a decided change takes place in the character of the deposit .
All above this seems to be largely composed of material derived from corals , with occasional rather brief interludes of true reef , and this mass , measui'ing , as said above , rather over 200 feet in thickness , may be termed the first or uppermost formation .
Below this , down to about 373 feet , sandy material distinctly dominates , which sometimes is almost a calcareous mud .
Still even there coral fragments and rubble occasionally appear , and now and then a few isolated corals .
Other organisms may be detected , including nullipores , foraminifera , and mollusca ; but until this material has been examined microscopically , it would be premature to attempt any precise statement .
This mass , in thickness about 170 feet , may be termed the second or middle formation .
It is not reef , though obviously produced in the vicinity of a reef .
Below 370 feet is the third or lowest zone ; in this beds composed of broken coral become frequent , which are intercalated with masses of dead coral , though sandy bands also occur .
The character of the material suggests that it has been formed in the immediate vicinity of a reef , which has occasionally grown out laterally , though only for a time , and has built up a layer of true reef , from 2 to 3 feet in thickness , upon a mass of detrital coral .
In one place the rock is specially noted as " hard , " and hereabouts even the shells of gasteropods have perished , only their casts remaining .
Prom 526 to 555 feet the bore passed through fairly compact and ( in places ) very dense and hard " coral limestone " and " cavernous coral rock , " in which dendroid forms were numerous .
As regards the part between 557 feet and 643 feet only brief information is to hand , but Professor David states that it is reported to be chiefly coral limestone , hard and dense , with occasional soft bands of coral sand or coral rubble .
Thus the third , or lowest zone , about 270 feet in thickness , corresponds apparently with the first , but it seems to contain larger and more numerous masses of true reef .
Professor David has also forwarded with his latest letters a section of the boring and of the exterior form of the island , down to about 730 fathoms : the one drawn from his notebook , the other from Captain Field 's record of soundings .
From this I gather the VOL. LXII .
Q Anniversary Meeting .
following particulars The borehole is , roughly speaking , rather over 100 yards from the margin of the ocean , and about 165 yards from that of the lagoon ; it is about 240 yards from the spot where a sounding of 10 fathoms was obtained , nearly 400 yards from a 66-fathom sounding , and rather more than a quarter of a mile from one of 130 fathoms .
After this the submarine slope , for a considerable depth , is not quite so steep .
He also states that , at Funafuti , the vigorous growing portion of the reef appeared to be limited to within about 40 feet of the surface .
It would be premature , as Professor David remarks , to express an opinion as to the theoretical bearing of these results until the core has been thoroughly studied .
But two things seem clear , ( 1 ) that true reef has been pierced at depths down to more than 600 feet , and ( 2 ) that throughout the whole of the time represented by the mass which has now been tested , coral must have grown in great abundance in some part or other of the locality now represented by Funafuti ; for the atoll , it must be remembered , is surrounded by water about 2,000 fathoms deep , what would completely isolate it from any other coralliferous locality .
November 30 , 1897 .
Anniversary Meeting .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A full Report of the Anniversary Meeting , with the President 's Address and Report of Council , will be found in the ' Year-book ' for 1897-8 .
The Account of the Appropriation of the Donation Fund and of the Government Grant will also be found in the ' Year-book .
'

