II .
" On the Exact Form and Motion of Waves at and near the Surface of Deep Water .
" By Professor W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received September 27 , 1862 , ( Abstract .
) The investigations of the Astronomer Royal and of other mathematicians on the question of straight-crested parallel waves in a liquid , are based on the supposition that the displacements of the particles are small compared with the length of a wave .
Ience it has been very generally inferred that the results of those investigations are approximate only , when applied to waves in which the displacements , as compared with the length of a wave , are considerable .
In the present paper , the author proves that one of those results , viz. , that in very deep water the particles move with a uniform velocity in vertical circles whose radii diminish in geometrical progression with increased depth , and consequently that surfaces of equal pressure , including the upper surface , are trochoidal , -is exact for all displacements , how great soever .
The trochoidal form of waves was first explicitly described by Mr. Scott Russell ; but no demonstration of its exactly fulfilling the cine .
matical and dynamical conditions of the question has yet been published .
In 'A Manual of Applied Mechanics ' ( first published in 1858 ) , the author stated that the theory of rolling waves might be deduced from that of the positions assumed by the surface of a mass of water revolving in a vertical plane about a horizontal axis ; but as the theory of such waves was foreign to the subject of the book , he deferred until now the publication of the investigation on which that statement was founded .
Having communicated some of the leading principles of that in .
vestigation to Mr. William Froude in April 1862 , the author was informed by that gentleman that he had arrived independently at similar results by a similar process , although he had not published them .
The following is a summary of the leading results demonstrated in the paper .
Proposition I. In a mass of gravitating liquid whose particles revolve uniformly in vertical circles , a wavy surface of trochoidal profile fulfils the conditions of uniformity of pressure ; such trochoidal profile being generated by rolling , on the under side of a horizontal straight line , a circle whose radius is equal to the height of a conical pendulum that revolves in the same period with the particles of liquid .
Proposition II.-Let another surface of uniform pressure be conceived to exist indefinitely near to the first surface ; then , if the first surface is a surface of continuity ( that is , a surface always traversing identical particles ) , so also is the second surface .
( Those surfaces contain between them a continuous layer of liquid .
) Corollary.-The surfaces of uniform pressure are identical with surfaces of continuity throughout the whole mass of liquid .
Proposition III.-The profile of the lower surface of the layer referred to in Proposition II .
, is a trochoid generated by a rolling circle of the same radius with that which generates the upper surface ; and the tracing-arm of the second trochoid is shorter than that of the first trochoid by a quantity bearing the same proportion to the depth of the centre of the second rolling circle below the centre of the first rolling circle , which the tracing-arm of the first rolling circle bears to the radius of that circle .
Corollaries.-The profiles of the surfaces of uniform pressure and of continuity form an indefinite series of trochoids , described by equal rolling circles , rolling with equal speed below an indefinite series of horizontal straight lines .
The tracing-arms of those circles ( each of which is the radius of the circular orbits of the particles contained in the trochoidal surface which it traces ) diminish in geometrical progression with a uniform increase of the vertical depth at which the centre of the rolling circle is situated .
The preceding propositions agree with the existing theory , except that they are more comprehensive , being applicable to large as well as small displacements .
The following proposition is entirely new .
Proposition IV.-The centres of the orbits of the particles in a given surface of equal pressure stand at a higher level than the same particles do when the liquid is still , by a height which is a third proportional to the diameter of the rolling circle and the length of the tracing-arm , or radius of the orbits of the particles , and which is equal to the height due to the velocity of revolution of the particles .
Corollaries.-The mechanical energy of a wave is half actual and half potential ; half being due to motion , and half to elevation .
The crests of the waves rise higher above the level of still water than their hollows fall below it ; and the difference between the elevation of the crests and the depression of the hollows is double of the quantity mentioned in Proposition IV .
The hydrostatic pressure at each individual particle during the wave-motion is the same as if the liquid were still .
Friction between a Wave and a Wave-shaped Solid .
In an Appendix is given the investigation of the problem , to find approximately the amount of the pressure required to overcome the friction between a trocloical wave-surface and a wave-shaped solid in contact with it .
The application of the result of this investigation to the resistance of ships was explained in a paper read to the British Association in 1861 , and published in various Engineering Journals in October of that year .
The following is the most useful of the formulae arrived at .
Let w be the heaviness of the liquid ; f , the coefficient of friction ; g , gravity ; v , the velocity of advance of the solid ; L , its length , being that of a wave ; z , the breadth of the surface of contact of the solid and liquid ; 3 , the greatest angle of obliquity of that surface to the direction of advance ; P , the force required to overcome the friction : then p=fiw2 Lz(1 +4 sin2 + sin4 i ) .
In ordinary cases the value off for water sliding over painted iron is about '0036 .
The quantity Lz(l +4 sin2 ft+ sin4 3 ) is what has been.called the " augmented surface .
" In practice , sin4 may in general be neglected on account of its smallness .

