V. An Account of the Man whose Arm with the Shoulder-blade was torn off by a Mill , the 15th of August 1737 .
by Mr. John Belchier , F. R. S. Surgeon to Guy 's Hospital .
SAmuel Wood , about 26 Years of Age , Servant to Mr. Felton , being at Work in one of the Mills near the Isle of Dogs , over-against Deptford , and going to fetch a Sack of Corn from the further Part of the Mill , in order to convey it up into the Hopper , carelessly took with him a Rope , at the End of which was a Slip-knot , which he had put round his Wrist ; and passing by one of the large Wheels , the Cogs of it caught hold of the Rope , and he not being able to disengage his Hand instantly , was drawn towards the Wheel , and raised off the Ground , till his Body being checked by the Beam which supports the Axis of the Wheel , his Arm with the Shoulder-blade was separated from it .
At the Time the Accident happened , he says he was not sensible of any Pain , but only felt a tingling about the Wound , and being a good deal surprised , did not know that his Arm was torn off , till he saw it in the Wheel : When he was a little recovered , he came down a narrow Ladder to the first Floor of the Mill , where his Brother was , who seeing his Condition , ran down Stairs immediately out of the Mill to a House adjacent to the next Mill , which is about a Hundred Yards distant from the Place where the Accident happened , and alarm 'd the Inhabitants with what had happened to his Brother ; but before they could get out of the House to his Assistance , the poor Man had walked by himself to within about ten Yards of the House , where , being quite spent by the great Effusion of Blood , he fainted away , and lay on the Ground ; they immediately took him up , and carried him into the House , and strewed a large Quantity of Loaf-Sugar powdered into the Wound , in order to choke the Blood , till they could have the Assistance of a Surgeon , whom they sent instantly for to Limehouse ; but the Messenger being very much frighted , could not give the Surgeon a clear Idea of the Accident , so that when he came to see the Condition the Man was in , he had no Dressings with him for an Accident of that Kind ; but had brought with him an Apparatus for a broken Arm , which he understood by what he could learn from the Messenger to be the Case ; however , he sent home for proper Dressings , and when he came to examine particularly into the Wound , in order to secure the large Blood-vessels , there was not the least Appearance of any , nor any Effusion of Blood ; so having first brought the fleshy Parts of the Wound as near together as he could by means of a Needle and Ligature , he dressed him up with a warm Digestive , and applied a proper Bandage : The next Morning he opened the Wound again , in Company with two Surgeons more ; and not perceiving any Effusion of Blood at that Time , he dressed him as before , and sent him in the Afternoon to St. Thomas 's Hospital , where he was admitted a Patient under the Care of Mr. Fern ; from which Time he was constantly attended , in Expectation of a Hemorrhage of Blood from the Subclavian Artery ; but there being no Appearance of fresh Bleeding , it was not thought proper to remove the Dressings during the Space of four Days , when Mr. Fern opened the Wound , at which Time likewise there was not the least Appearance of any Bloodvessels ; so he dressed him up again , and in about two Months time the Cure was entirely completed .
Upon examining the Arm within a Day or two after it was separated from the Body , I found the Scapula fractured transversly , as were likewise the Radius and Ulna in two Places : But whether these Bones were fractured before the Arm was torn off , the Man cannot possibly judge .
The Muscles inserted into the Scapula were broke off near their Insertions , but the Muscles arising from the Scapula came away with it entire .
The Latissimus Dorsi and Pectoralis , were likewise broke off near their Insertions into the Os humeri .
The Integuments of the Scapula , and upper Part of the Arm , were left on the Body , as also the Clavicle .
But what is very surprising is , that the Subclavian Artery , which could never be got at to be secured by Art , should not bleed at all after the first Dressing ; the Artery being separated so happily , that when the Coats of it were contracted , the fleshy Parts pressed against the Mouth of it , and prevented any Effusion of Blood .
As this Case is very singular , and so remarkable , that no History can furnish us with any Instance similar to it , in order to give a particular Account of it , besides visiting the Man frequently , from his first Admittance into the Hospital , and getting from him what Information he was capable of giving me , I went myself two Days ago to the Mill where the Accident happened , pen 'd , and inquired into every particular Circumstance relating to the Fact , of Mr. Felton , with whom the Man worked , the Woman of the House where the Man was carried into , and the Surgeon that dressed him , who all certified to me what is above related ; and for the farther Satisfaction of the SOCIET Y , I have brought the Man himself , and likewise the Arm , just as it was torn from his Body , which has been kept in Spirits ever since the Accident happened .

