]\gt ; 66 Mr. J. Stuart on GaTvanomagnetic Attraction .
[ Dec. 5 , strongly heated ; they melt , boil , and yield a semisolid distillate .
The distillation is carried on far as possible without charring the residue , which due which consists of potassium benzoate ( from which half the benzoic acid employed may be recovered ) .
By addition of ammonia to the semisolid distillate benzoic acid that has passed over is retained , whilst the nitrile distils with the water , from which it is afterwards separated , dried , and redistilled .
A roughly carried out experiment yielded 50 per cent. of the theoretical quantity of nitrile in a perfectly pure condition ; the loss owing to secondary reactions is amply compensated by the ease and rapidity of the operation .
Action of Cuminic Acid on Potassium Sulphocyanate .
An experiment with cuminic acid yielded very satisfactory resuIts : cumonitrile was obtained in about the same proportions as the benzonitrile .
The temperature at which the reaction commenced was here about ; the nitrile was purified as in the preceding case .
Finally , an experiment was made with oinnamic acid ; but although sulphuretted hydrogen was evolved , and the reaction appeared to proceed exactly as in the foregoing cases , no cinnamonitrile was obtained in the liquid disillate .
The ci1mamic acid seemed to be decomposed into carbomc anhydride and cinnamol before being acted upon by the sulphocyan acid .
The ease with which nitriles and amides are obtained in this manner , both in the and fatty series , induces me to hope that the new method may be of use in many cases , and perhaps , by its application to other series , give rise to bodies hitherto uninvestigated .
The tediousness of preparing the acid chloride and subsequent treatment with ammonia ( for the amide ) , or of the amide with phosphoric anhydride ( for the nitrile ) , in the ordinary method for producing these nitrogen compounds , is here replaced by simple digestion of the acid with sulphocyanate of potassium , bodies generally readily procurable .
V. Investigation of the Attraction of a Galvanic Coil on a small Magnetic Mass.\ldquo ; By JAMES STUART , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by the President .
Received July 26 , 1872 .
From investigations given by Ampere , we can deduce an expression for the potential TJ at an external point of a closed circular galvanic current carried by a wire of indefinitely small section .
Let be the radius of the circle ; let the distance of from , the centre of the circle , be ; and let the line make an angle with the normal to the plane of the circle .
Then it can be shown that when is less than 1872 .
] Mr. J. Stuart on Galvanomagnetic Attraction .
; and when is greater than where depends only on the intensity of the current , and where are defined by the equation If , therefore , X represents the resolved part to the plane of the oircle and ards it of the force exerted the current on a unit of magnetism placed , and if represent the resolved paat of thac force parallel to the plane of the circle and directed from its centre outwards , then To calculate these quantities , know that , .
We shall only consider the case of those points for which is greater than .
Substituting these values in the expression which in such instances holds for , we have ; . .
From which , after some reduction , we obtain ( 1 ) J. Stuart on Galvanomagnetic Attraction .
[ Dec. 5 , ( 2 ) Eaoh of these expressions consists of a series of terms in ascending vers of which will be couverging .
We shall now seek to find X and for a galvanic current travel'sing a vire coiled into the form of a hollow cylinder , of whioh the internal radius is , the external , and of which the length is .
We shall suppose the individual ttlrns of Vlre o to lie so close as that each be regarded as an ] Let A be the axis of the coil , so that A and are the centres of its two faces ; then A et be the middle point of A B. Let be .
the attracted point , its perpendicular dishnce from A B. Let PAM , PBM Let be the ally lrll of the wire regarded as it circle of radius ; then it is dily seen that for the hole cylindrical bobbin the forces X , are given by Ldxda , Mr. J. Stuart on Galvanomagnetic Attraction .
where and for the ipressions on the right-hand side of ( 1 ) and ( and here depends on the of the current .
To perform the integrntions for the of the bobbin in these exprcssions , have the ; ' bfnking these substitutious for , the to become with respect to , which cttll he sily t by contintled application of the of tion by pttrts , the limits being from to .
If we then the resnlt thus obtained respect to , from the limit to the limit finally obt X These expressions for X and for ffi points a greater than point of the axis A as they are composed by adding together corresponding terms of series which are then all convergent .
other points , these expressiollS hold for such as are situated on the to he nearer A or than by the distance .
such the expressions become illusory , assuming the form .
They 70 Mr. E. Ray Lankester on Haemoglobin .
[ Dec. 12 , ever , be evaluated by the methods for the evaluation of vanishin fractions .
is clearly zero .
X may be more readily obtained directly from the expressicm for U. From that expression we find that for a single reular current the attraction on such points is Hence , in the case of a bobbin , if be the distance of the attracted point from , the middle point of the axis of the bobbin , we have which gives X for points situated on the xis for which is not less than .
December 12 , 1872 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. Treasurer and VicePresident , in the Chair : Announcement was made from the Chair that the President appointed Dr. Sharpey a -President .
The Presents received were laid on the Table , thanks ordered for them .
The followin communications were read : I. " " A Contribution to the Knowledge of Haemoglobin By E. RAY .
Oxon .
, Fellow of Exeter College , and Radcliffe Travelling Fellow of the University .
Communicated by Prof. HUXLEY .
Received July 29 , 1872 .
The fact that exceedingly small quantities of Haemoglobin can be detected with great facility by means of the microspectroscope , has rendered it possible to trace the distribution of this important body among organisms of various classes , and by comparin its absence from certain ] or

