]\gt ; 1888 .
] Report on .
' Report ] HygTometric Methods .
First Pttrt , including Saturation bIethod and helnical Method , and Dew-point By .
N. SHAW , M.A. Commullicated by R. H. cot , F.R.S. , Secretary to the hIeteoroCoullcil .
Received , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) With the exception of certain " " absolute hygrometers the behaviour of which has not yet been sufficiently tested , bhe determination of the pressure of water-vapour in the .
is indirect and requires a formula of reduction .
formulae in use are based upon assump- tions which are at present not so completely verified by experiment that any hygrometric method can be relied upon to give measures of the pressure of aqueous vapour trustwol.thy to within mm. of mercury .
The authority for these statements is given in detail in all account of the hygrometric work done since .
This account is appended to the report as Note A. the report , the chemical hygrometric method is provisionally regarded as a standard .
formula of reduction applicable in this case is where is the pressul.e of aqueous vapour in millimetres ; , the number of grammes of moisture per cubic n1etre in the air at temperature C. ; the coefficient of expansion of ai per C. ; the density of dry air at and 760 mm. , i.e. , grammes per cubic ; and is the specific gravity of the moistul.e referred to air at the same temperature and pressure .
The assumptions upon which the formula is based are\mdash ; ( 1 ) That it is possible to the whole of the moisture from air by passing it over desiccating substances ; and ( 2 ) that a numerical value calJ be assigned to .
The first assumption been discussed by Regnault and others , and is sufficiently nearly accul.ate for all hygrometric calculations .
With regard to the second , ] ervations upon steam ( free from air ) and other evidences point to ) .
The assumption can , mol.eover , be tested , by chemical method to air saturated at a known temperature , assuming the value for , and tho results with the table of saturation pressnres in vucuo .
This , vever , assumes Dalton 's law to be sfrictly an open question , upon which opinion is reserved until further experimental investigation is concluded .
nault made the comparison in sixty-eight experiments , in fifty-nine of which the .
was practically saturated when it entered the drying tubes .
these he found thac Mr. .
N. Shaw .
[ Jan. 26 , { he gave results which were less than the tabulated pressures , the e being always of the same , but so small in amount that he neglected them in his subsequent work .
The uItimate object of the experiments described in the report examine the behaviour of dew-point instruments in air of known state , and for purpose air was saturated at a known temperature and by an aspiraor through vessels in which the dew-point instrument could be placed when required , and subsequently through drying tubes of special pattern .
The vapour-pressure was thus btained at the two extremities of the train of apparatus and the results compaled .
The questions are raised and discussed:\mdash ; .
Were the drying tubes used as efficient as Regnault 's .
Does the pressure of vapour in the air become changed by passing through the apparatus designed to contain the dew-point instruments , or by the mere presence of those insbruments iii .
Do the resuIts of the chemical method agree with the tabulated vapour-pressures when the air is more or less heated after being saturated iv .
Can the observed differences between ths results be obviated by assuming a value for ( other than ) , which is compatible with values obained by other methods .
Can any reason be assigned for the differences observed by Regnaul in the case of saturated air The answer to the first question is given in an aocount of a series of twelve experiments practically repeating observations with saturated ai The tabulated results show divergences in the same direction and of the same order of magnitude as those in Regnault 's paper .
Some incidental points are also discussed namely , the comparativs efficiency of phosphoric anhydride , sulphuric acid , and calcium chloride , and the effect of india-rubbcr and glass connexions between drying tubes .
It is shown that the sulphuric acid and phosphoric ydride tubes are efficient , that as a rnle one tube is all tlJat is strictly necessary , but that two should be used to provide for bhe case of exhaustion of the first tube or too rapid flow of air , and further , that the glass and meroury connexions between tubes employed in the second series of cannot be regarded as producing any effect .
( ii and ) answers to the second and third questions ars furnished by the resuIts of eighty-two experiments with the chemical method upon air saturated at known temperatures by a speciallydesigned " " saturater\ldquo ; in a water bath .
The temperatures of satnration lay between 1o C. and C. , and , with } exception , were below the 1888 .
] Hygror)Jleth 335 perature of the surl.onnding air .
Each experiment involved upwards of thirty readings of weight , pressure , and temperature .
The temperature readings were corrected by means of a special comparison at Kew .
Of the eighty-two -two etained as free any known disturbing causes , and from them it appears that , with equal to , the pressure deduced by chemical lnethod is on the greater by mm. than that given in Regnault 's table of vacuum pressures , as recalculated in Landolt and Bornstein 's tables .
This difference is } ery small compared with the epancies from Dalton 's Law observed Regnault in .
case of water vapour .
egard to the fourth question ; if the observations be employed ) determine the value which must be substituted for , the specific gravity cf saturated steam referred to air at the same temperature and pressure , the mean value , of so obtained is which agrees very closely with , the ) for the same lange of temperature deduced from Clausius 's calculations based on tbermodylJamical reasoning .
The value is probably correct if the air is not aturated ; in that case measure of the pressure of vapour in the air is 2/ 622 greater thau it would be if the same air were reduced in temperature ( at constant pressure ) , until it was saturated .
The one observation of the second series with saturated air gives a result mm. smaller than the tabulated , and thus with the twelve experiments of the first series confirms the resuIts of RegnauIt 's observations .
To account for this , it is that air which is very neal .
] or quite saturated , would deposit some of its moisture on the glass tubes used to conduct it from one vessel to another .
This behaviour of nearly saturated air has been already noticed , and it is confirmed by the observations on dew-point instruments , and moreover , by experiments directly intended for the purpose , quoted in a note .
Details are gi of observations with ' hygrometer and rometer when exposed in glass vessels between the saturater and the ying tube .
The two instruments are separately cussed .
With Regnault 's instrument , after some practice , two differeJl { cbservers obtained practically identical results .
In , the observed .
temperatures of the dew-point were below the temperature of saturation , but seldom by more than C. A con- siderable amount of uncertainty was shown to be attached to the ; and by very ] inspection readings of the dew-point were obtained ave the temperature of saturation , in one case by as much as C. the expe ] iments with Dines 's hygrometer , it appears that the instrument is likely to give easy determinations of the dew-point are within small limibs of error ; but that if the instrument Presents .
[ Jan. 26 , observed with the closest attention , the result will be considerably too high in consequence of the formation of a dew deposit at a temperatnre above the dew-point , and it may possibly be erroneous in consequence of variations in of the different parts of the box containing the thermometer .
An is given of Alluard 's modification of Regnault 's hygrometer , and of Bogen 's hygrometer .
A second note , , is appended to the report , showing the tables used in countries for the reduction of wet and dry bulb observations .
Presents , January 26 , 1888 .
Transactions .
Albany :Albany Institute .
Transactions .
Vol. .
Albany 1887 .
The Institute .
Baltimore :Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Vol. Nos. 60-61 . .
Baltimore 1887 ; Studies in Historieal and Political Science .
Fifth Series .
Nos. 10-11 .
1887 .
The University .
:\mdash ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
ngen .
Theil VIII .
Heft 2 . .
Basel 1887 .
The Society .
Batavia :Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen .
Notulen .
Deel .
Aflev .
3 . .
Batavia 1887 ; Nederlandsch-Indisch Plakaatboek , 1602-1811 .
Deel IV .
Batavia 1887 .
The Society .
Koninklijke Natuurkundige Vereeniging .
Natuurkundig Tijdschrift .
DeeI XLVI . .
Batavia 1887 .
The Association .
Bergen :Museum .
Aarsberetning , 1886 . .
Bergen 1887 .
The Museum .
Birmingham :Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. .
Birmingham ] .
The Society .
Brussels:\mdash ; Academy Royale de Belgique .
Annuaire .
1888 .
Bruxelles .
The Academy .
Halle :Verein fur Erdkunde .
heilungen . .
Halle .
The Verein .
Helsingfors :Finska Vetenskaps-Societet .
Bidrag till Kannedom af Finlands Natur och Folk .
Eaftet 44 .
ngfors 1887 .
The Society .
Innsbruck:\mdash ; Ferdinandeum fur Tirol und Vorarlberg .
Zeitschrift .
Folge III .
Heft .
31 .
1887 .
The erdinandeum .
Naturwissenschaftlicb-Medizinischer Verein .
Bericbte .
Jahrgang .
Innsbruck 1887 .
The Verein .
Jena:\mdash ; Medicinisch-Natul.wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft .
Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Naturwissenschaft .
Band XXI . .
Jena 1887 .
The Society .

