A Historical and Anatomical Description of a doubtful amphibious Animal of Germany , called , by Laurenti , Proteus Anguinus .
By Charles Schreibers , M.D. of Vienna .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sitr Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 26 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 241 .
] This singular production has hitherto been found only in a small lake in Carniola , called Sitticher See , and has never yet been met with in other large lakes of the neighbourhood , although these be known to communicate with the former by subterraneous channels .
The specimens which have as yet reached either the public or private collections are so few , that all the descriptions hitherto given by Laurenti , Scopoli , Herman , Schneider , and Gmelin , have been found equally defective and erroneous , especially as to the anatomical construction , which , indeed , those able naturalists have scarcely had opportunities of investigating .
This defect probably gave rise to a difference of opinion concerning the class to which this animal is to be annumerated ; some considering it as a species arrived at its degree of perfection , while others maintain that it is the larva of some kind of lizard hitherto unknown .
The principal object of this paper is to offer so circumstantial a description , of the different parts of this animal as to enable physiologists to determine the point hitherto undecided .
The specimen from which this description was taken measured about thirteen inches in length , and one inch in diameter ; the fore part of the head was flat and narrow , somewhat resembling the bill of a duck : the upper lip projected considerably beyond the lower one .
No external traces of nostrils , ears or eyes could be discovered .
Of the latter , however , some indications are thought to have been perceived on a living specimen .
On each side of the occiput was an opening , like those of fishes ; and over them certain branchial appendages , similar to those in tadpoles and other larvae of amphibious animals ; whence probably arose the difference of opinions concerning the nature of this animal .
From the description here given , we are to infer , that the construction of these parts , when carefully examined , differs materially from those as well of fishes as of tadpoles or other larvre .
The body is round , equally thick throughout between the fore and hind feet : the fore feet ares about one inch long , each having three toes without nails , the hind feet about two lines shorter with only two toes : behind the latter the body grows narrower , and terminates in the tail , which is compressed on the sides , and ends nearly in a point .
The skin is coriaceous ; but looking at it with a magnifier , it exhibits a number of minute glands underneath the epidermis , similar to those in water-lizards , &amp;c. Its colour when alive is a light red ; but when kept a while in spirits , it becomes of a dusky brown.-A detailed account is also given of the muscular fibres under the skin .
Upon opening the body by a longitudinal section , the whole cavity was found almost filled by the liver , extending from the thorax down to the pelvis , so as to cover the greatest part of the other viscera .
The heart consists of a single ventricle , and an auricle as large as the ventricle .
The situations , dimensions , and structure of these , as well as of the stomach , intestines , gall-bladder , spleen , kidneys , pancreas , &amp;c. , are minutely described : and as it was found to have something particular in its formation , the author dwells somewhat more at large on the air-bladder , or pneumatic apparatus , which he met with in the thorax , immediately below the heart .
This he found to be a simple bag , without any cellular structure , as in the respiratory organs or lungs of other amphibious animals ; but a similar viscus he has hitherto sought for in vain in the larvae of water lizards or other animals of that description .
Concerning the habits of this singular animal , we learn from a friend of the author , who resides near the lake where it is found , and who had the good fortune to keep one of them alive during several days , that it seemed at all times very torpid ; that though it would occasionally swim with the help of its broad tail , it was in general motionless at the bottom of the water .
Sometimes it rose to the surface , stretched its head out of the water , seemed to take in air , but immediately returned to the bottom .
It crept by means of its feet both at the bottom and on the side of the vessel , but so slowly that the circumstance may be thought characteristic of the animal .
Sometimes , putting its head out of the water , it produced a hissing noise , louder than could have been expected from so small an animal .
The author , lastly , compares this singular production with the Siren lacertina of Linnaeus , which has since been classed with the fishes under the name of Murcena Siren , and finds a considerable analogy between the two : and though he seems unwilling to determine whether the animal he describes be perfect , or only a larva of some unknown species , the facts he has adduced will probably be thought to favour the former of these opinions .

