III .
" On the Conductivity of Mercury and Amalgams .
" By F. CRACE CALVERT , Esq. , and R. JOHNSON , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received April 14 , 1859 .
( Abstract ) .
The object of the researches described in this paper , was to carry out with reference to amalgams the investigations relative to alloys contained in a forrmer paper .
In comparing the results of theory and experimeant in the manner followed in the former paper , the conducting power of mercury itself was a constant , which it was essential to know .
The figure given in the former paper was mercury=677 , on the scale silver= 1000 .
On adopting in the first instance this value of the conducting power of mercniry , the results obtained with alloys , which consisted mainly of mercury , appeared very anomalous ; it seemed as if a very small per-centage of even the best conducting metals reduced immensely the conducting power of mercury .
But it was suggested to the authors , that the apparently high conducting power of mercury obtained by their method , was probably due to the transference of heat by convection ; that the real conducting power of mercuiry for heat was low , like its conducting power for electricity ; that the other metal , contained ill small quantity in the amalgam , acted by rendering the amalgam v-iscous , and thereby interfering with the transference of heat by convection , and that the low conducting power of mercury would show itself on merely inclining the vessel used in the experiment , so that the box containing the warm water should be higher than the other .
Experimenit confirmed this view .
As the apparent conducting power of mercury was found continually to decrease with an increase in the inclination of the vessel , it was found necessary , in order to obtain correct results , to arrange so that the bar-shaped box containing the mercury or fluid amalgam was actually vertical in the experiment .
In this way the authors obtained for mercury the figure 54 , on the same scale as before .
It is worthy of remark , that mercury comes out the worst conductor of all the metals tried , the figure for bismuth , which had previously been the lowest , being 61 .
This is in analogy with water , also a fluid , the conducting power of which is known to be excessively low .
The conducting power of the more fluid amalgams determined by experiment with the box vertical , proved to be in all cases nearly the same as that of pure mercury , in conformity with the law mentioned by the authors in their former paper , that alloys in which there is an excess of the number of equivalents of the worse coniducting metal , over the number of equivalents of the better conductor , do not sensibly differ in conducting power from the worse conductor alone .
In the case of amalgams generally , the conducting power obtainied by experiment was found to agree pretty closely with the number calculated from the per-centages and conducting powers of the component metals .
In conclusion , the authors give some further experiments on the conductioni of heat by compound bars , formed of metals placed in some cases end to end in alternate cubes , in other cases side by side in parallel bars , extending the whole length of the compound bar .
Among bars of the latter kind , it was found that it was only in the case of bismuth and antimony that the compound bar conducted heat according to the calculated amount .

