]\gt ; in By HoPACE LAMB , F.R.S. ( Received July 10 , 1916 .
The theory of waves in an infinitely cylindrical rod was discussed by ochhammer in 1876 in a well-known paper .
* The somewhat simpler problem of two-dimensional waves in a solid bounded by parallel planes was considered by Lord ) and by the present writerI in 1889 .
The lnain ob.iect in these various investigations was to verify , or to ascertain small corrections to , the ordinary theory of the vibrations of thin rods or plates , and the wave-length was assumed in the end to be great in comparison with the thickness .
It occurred to me some time ago that a further examination of the twodimensional problem was desirable for more than one reason .
In the first lace , the number of cases in which the various types of vibration of a solid , none of whose dimensions is regarded as small , been studied is so icted that any addition to it would have some degree of interest , if merely as a contribution to elastic theory .
Again , modern seismology has various questions relating to waves and vibrations in an elastic stratum imagined as resting on matter of a different elasticity and density .
S questions naturally present great mathematical difficulties , and it seemed unpromising to attempt any further discussion of them unless the comparatively simple problem which forms the subject of this paper should be found to admit of a practical solution .
In itself it has , of course , no bearing on the questions referred to .
Even in this case , however , the period-equation is at first sight rather intractable , and it is only recently that a method of dealing with it ( now pretty obvious ) has suggested itself .
The result is to , I think , a fairly complete view of the more important modes of vibration of an infinite plate , together with indications as to the character of the higher modes , which are of less interest .
I may add that the numerical work has been ooreatly simplified by the help of the very full and conyenient Tables of hyperbolic circular functions issued by the Smithsonian Institution 'Crelle , ' vol. 81 , p. 324 ; see also Love , ' Elasticity , ' 1906 .
p. 275 .
Proc. Lond. Math. Soc vol. 20 , p. 225 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vo1 .
.3 , ' Proc. Lond. Math. Soc vol. 21 , p. 85 .
S Love , ' Some Problems of Geodynamics , ' 1911 , Chap. XI .
'Hyperbolic Functions , ' Washington , 1909 .
I have to thank Mr. J. E. Jones for kindly verifying and , where necessary , correcting my calculations .
On in an Elastic 1 .
The motion is supposed to take place in two dimensions the ) being taken in the medial plane , and the axis of to this .
thickn of the plate is denoted by .
The stress-strain equations are , in the usual notation , , ( 1 ) It is known that the solution of the equations of motion is of type , ( 2 ) the functions subject to the equations where We now assume a time-factor ( omitted in the sequel ) , and write , ( 4 ) so that We further assume , for the present purpose , periodicity with pecC to is most conveniently done by means of a factor , the ) being accordingly .
( 6 ) Writing , ( 7 ) we have ) .
( 8 ) The equations ( 1 ) now ( 9 ) 2 .
When the motion is symmetrical with respect to the plane assume , in accordance with ( 8 ) , .
( 10 ) This gives , for the stresses on the faces .
( 11 ) VO L. XCIII .
Prof. H. Lamb .
these to zero , and eliminating the ratio , we have periodequation* In the most important type of long waves , , are all small , and the limiting form of the equation is whence in virtue of ( 4 ) .
Hence if be the wave-velocity This is in agreement with the ordinary theory , where the thickness is treated as infinitely small and the influence of lateral inertia is neglected .
For waves which are very short , on the other hand , as compared with the thickness , the quantities are , and the equation tends to the form .
( 16 ) This is easily recognised as the equation to determine the period of " " aylei waves\ldquo ; on the surface of an elastic solid .
It is known that the substance be incompressible the wave-velocity is whilst on Poisson 's hypothesis of .
( 18 ) These results will , in fact , present themselves latel . .
In virtue of the relations ( 4 ) , ( 7 ) , the equation ( 12 ) may be regarded as an equation to find when is given , i.e. to determine the periods of the various modes corresponding to any iven wave-length ; but from this point of view it is difficult to handle .
It is easier to determine the values of corresponding to given values of the ratio .
This is equivalent to finding the corresponding to a given wave-velocity .
Putting , in fact , , we find from ( 7 ) , ' ( 19 ) and therefore , ( 20 ) so that depends upon only .
An equivalent equation is given by Rayleigh .
Rayleigh , 'Proc .
Lond. Math. Soc vol. 17 , p. 3 ( 1887 ) ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 2 , 1 ) .
441 .
On Waves in Elastic 4 .
For simplicity we will suppose in the first instance that the substance is incompressible , so that .
Putting the equation ( 12 ) becomes ( 22 ) whilst .
( 23 ) It is evident that real values of ?
must be less than unity .
Moreover we have , ( 24 ) which latter expression is easily seen to be positive so long as .
Hence as increases from , the first member of ( 22 ) increases from to its asymptotic value unity .
There is therefore one and only one value of corresponding to any assigned value of which makes the second member of ( 22 ) less than unity .
And since the right-hand member of ( 22 ) is less than unity for only so long as , which is the positive root of the second factor in ( 25 ) .
The admissible real values of therefore range from to .
The former of these makes , and gives to the value .
The values of corresponding to a series of values of between the above limits , together with the corresponding values of the ratio of wave-length to thickness , and the corresponding wave-velocities , are iven in Table I ( p. 118 ) .
So far has been taken to be real , or .
In the opposite case we may write , ( 26 ) and assume ) The period-equation is then found to be , ( 28 ) being still supposed to be real .
In the case of incompressibility , writing ur have whilst .
( 31 ) Prof. H. Lamb .
If as increases from we take vays the lowest root of ( 30 ) , we obtain series of values of continuous with the roots of ( 22 ) and down to zero , when .
This latter value makes , in agreement with the general formula for long waves .
Numerical results for a of values from to included in Table I. Table I.\mdash ; Symmetrical [ Ths unit of The relation between wave-length and wave-velocity for the whole of nlodes investigated in this and in the preceding section is shown by the Gllrve A on the opposite page .
The unit of the horizontal scale is ; Lhat of the vertical scale is . .
On the present hypothesis of incompressibility there is a displacement nction .
to the stream-function of hydrodynamics , viz. , we I .
( 32 ) Waves in an Elastic Plate .
The lines const .
give the directions in which particles oscillate , whilst if they are drawn for small equidistant values of the constant their greater 01 less degree of closeness indicates the relative amplitudes .
In the case of standing waves the system of lines retains its position in space ; in the case of a progressive wave-train it must be ined to with the waves .
If be real we find , omitting a constant factor , sinh .
( 33 ) In the opposite case we may write .
( 34 ) I have thought it worth while to make diagrams illustrating the configuration of the lines of displacement in the class of 1nodes of vibration which have so far been obtained .
The case of the Rayleigh waves , corresponding to , is , of course , of independent interest .
In the present problem their wave-length is nitely short ; but if we transfer the origin to the surface , and then make , we get , omitting a numerical factor , where .
On this scale the wave-length may have any value .
The diagram ( fig. 2 ) shows the great difference in the character of the motion , and the slow diminution of amplitude with increasing depth , as compared with the ' surface waves\ldquo ; of hydrodynamics .
* It follows , in fact , * Lamb , ' ' 4th ed. , art .
228 .
Prof. H. Lamb .
from ( 35 ) that the ratio of the vertical amplitude to that at the surface ( in the same vertical ) at depths of , 12 , wave-length , is 130 , respectively , whereas in the hydrodynamical probleln the corresponding In the case of , the displacement function is given by ( 34 ) .
I have chosen for illustration , as giving a wave-length neither too reat nor too small , the case of , which makes and , accordingly , .
( 36 ) The result is shown in fig. 3 , which , like the former , covers half a wave-length .
The diagram may be taken to illustrate also , in a general On Waves in Elastic Plate .
way , the most important type of longitudinal vibrations in a cylindrical rod .
6 .
The modes of vibration so far obtained include all the more interesting types , from the physical point of view , of the symmetrical class ; but there are , of course , an infinity of others .
These correspond to the higher roots of the equation ( 30 ) .
Thus when ?
we easily find the approximate solutions .
( 37 ) For ( 38 ) For ; ( 39 ) and so on .
In these modes the plane is mapped out into rectangular compartments whose boundaries are lines of displacement .
This may be illustrated by the case of , when the internal compartments are squares .
This happens to be particularly simple nwthematically .
The formula ( 34 ) for is indeterminate , but is easily evaluated .
It is found from ( 30 ) that for small concomitant variations of and about we have This leads to ( 40 ) with ( 41 ) where is an .
The configuration is shownl in for the case Prof. H. Lamb .
; but it is to be observed that the dotted lines in the diagram all represent nes which are free from stress , and that consequently any combination of them may be taken to represent free boundaries .
This particular solution is , moreover , independent of the hypothesis of incompressibility .
* The surfaceconditions ( 11 ) are , in fact , satisfied by , ( 42 ) which lead again to ( 40 ) and ( 41 ) .
is increased the compartments referred to become more elongated .
For large values of , and consequently small values of or , we in the limit is integral .
It is otherwise evident that the surface conditions are satisfied by , ( 43 ) whence .
( 44 ) vibration now consists of a shearing motion parallel to , with nodal planes symmetrically situated on opposite sides of .
The frequency is given by .
( 45 ) 7 .
When the motion is anti-symmetrical with respect to the plane we A , ( 46 ) are defined as before by ( 7 ) .
This gives for the stresses at the ( 47 ) These surfaces being free , we deduce .
( 48 ) noticed long ago by as a possible nlode of transverse vibration ( uniform throughout the length ) in a bar of square section , 'Theorie mathematique de ' 2nd ed. , p. 170 .
There an analogous solution in the case of the symmetrical vibrations of a cyd.ical .
The surface-conditi.ons given on p. 277 of Love 's 'Elasticity ' ( equation ( o4 ) ) are satistied ) In the notation of this paper the latter two conditions would be written .
Ray On Waves in an Elastic Plate .
When the waves are infinitely short this reduces to the form ( 16 ) appropriate to Rayleigh waves .
In the case of long flexural waves are small .
Writing , we find , ( 49 ) on the supposition that small , which is seen to be verified .
This makes , ( 50 ) in agreement with the ordinary approximate heory .
It may be pointed out in this connection that Fourier 's well-known calculation*of the effect of an arbitrary initial disturbance in an infinitely long bar is physically defective , in that it rests on the assumption that the formula analogous to ( 50 ) is valid for all wave-lengths .
As a result , it makes the effect of a localised disturbance instantaneously at all distances , whereas there is a physical limit , , to the rate of propagntion .
8 .
For the purpose of a further examination we assume the substance of the plate to be incompressible , so that , and write equatiolt ( 48 ) becomes where -velocity is given by ( 23 ) .
Since must be less than unity , whilst the second member of ( 51 ) exceeds 1 if , it appears that for real solutions we are restricted to values of ?
between and 1 .
A series of values of corresponding to of within this range is given on the next page .
The displacement-function is foumd to be The forms of the lines const .
for the case of are shown in fig. 5 , for a range of half a wave-length .
arded as to a stauding vibration , they indicate a rotation of the matter in the bourhood of the nodes , about these points .
* See Todhunter , 'History of the Theory of Elasticity , ' , p. 112 ; Rayleigh , Theory of Sound , ' vol. 1 , art .
192 .
Prof. H. Table II.\mdash ; Asymmetrical Type .
[ The unit of is ] small values cf If the value of V is given by equation ( 50 ) .
FIG. So far it has been supposed that , and consequently that is real .
In the opposite case we assume in place of ( 46 ) , ( 5.3 ) and the period-equation is , ( 54 ) where is defined by In the case of incompressibility this becomes where .
As the preceding investigation ( summarised iu Table ) evidently coyel'S all the modes in which has the same throughout the thickness , the additional modes to which this equation relates may be dismissed -ith the remark that they are fous to those referred On Waves in an Ptate .
to in S6 above .
The particular case is illustrated by if we imagine the lowest horizontal dotted line to form the lower boundary .
Infl uence of Comprcssibility .
9 .
the hypothesis of incompressibility has been adopted for simplicity , the numerical calculations , so far as the more important modes are concerned , are not much more complicated if we abandon this restriction .
It will be sufficient to consider the case of the symmetrical types .
We have from .
( 4 ) and ( 7 ) .
( 56 ) Hence if we write the equation ( 12 ) takes the form The relation of to the wave-length is iven by whilst the wave-velocity is given by ( 20 ) .
For numerical illustration , we may adopt Poisson 's hypothesis as to the relation between the elastic constants .
Putting , then , , we have , ( 60 ) .
( 61 ) Real values of must lie between and , this the positive root of the equation ( 62 ) obtained by equating the second member of ( 60 ) to unity .
The wavevelocity corresponding to this latter value is , ( 63 ) in accordance with the theory of Rayleigh waves , the wave-length being now infinitely small compared with the thickness .
Prof. H. Lamb .
When is imaginary , we have , ( 64 ) The more important modes coming under these formulae are determined by the lowest root of ( 64 ) for values of ranging from to , this latter number corresponding to an infinitesimal value of .
to waves of infinite length .
Numerical results are given in Table III , and the relation between wave-length and wave-velocity is shown by the curve in fig. 1 ( p. 119 ) .
The unit of the vertical scale is as before .
Table III.\mdash ; Symmetr [ The unit of As increases from , the modes corresponding to the higher roots of ( 64 ) have at first the same general character as in the case of incompressibility On lWaves in Elastic ( S6 ) .
When , we have the division into square compartments , to which fig. 4 refers .
When is infinite , whilst is finite , we have .
( 66 ) A reference to ( 11 ) shows , in fact , that , independently of any special relation between the elastic constants , the conditions are satisfied by and .
( 67 ) This leads to ( 68 ) There is here a transition to the case where , as well as , is Writing , ( 69 ) and assuming ( for the case of symmetry ) the period-equation is found to be Since we find , writing .
( 74 ) Also .
On Poisson 's hypothesis these become The value of may range downwards from to On Waves Elastic Plate .
A minute examination of these modes would be laborious , and old hardly repay the trouble .
In the extreme case where , the equation ( 76 ) is satisfied by either a zero value of , or an.infinite value of .
The former alternative gives the shearing motions parallel to already referred to at the end of S 6 ( equations ( 43 ) and ( 44 ) ) .
The other alternative gives a vibration at right an to 7 It is , in fact , obvious from ( 11 ) that the conditions are satisfied by , ( 78 ) whence , ( 79 ) .
( 80 ) When slightly exceeds , we have modes of vibration resembling the above types , except for a gradual change of phase in the direction of The corresponding values of , as given by ( 77 ) , are very great , but it is to be remarked that the notion of " " wave-velocity\ldquo ; is in reality hardly applicable ( except in a purely geometrical or kinematical sense ) to cases of this kind , and that results to modes lying outside the limits of the numerical Tables are more appropriately expressed in terms of frequency .
* As already remarked , there is a physical hmit to the speed of propagation of an initially local disturbance .
( ' Hydrodynamics , ' art .
261 , where a similar point arises .

