11 1903 .
] Photo-electric Discharge from Metallic The same product is formed on treating the acid with phosphorus trichloride .
Methylstannichloroform crystallises from light petroleum in long colourless prisms melting at 105\#151 ; 107 ' and distils without decomposition at 179\#151 ; 180 ' .
It fumes in the air , dissolves to a clear solution in water , and is very soluble in the ordinary organic solvents .
" On the Photo-electric Discharge from Metallic Surfaces in different Gases .
" By W. Mansergh Yarley , M.Sc .
( Vict.)r Ph. D. ( Strasburg ) , 1851 Exhibition Eesearch Scholar , Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.E.S. Eeceived April 24 , \#151 ; Eead May 14 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the experiments described in this paper was to study as systematically as possible the effect of the pressure and nature of the gas with which a metal surface is surrounded upon the magnitude of the photo-electric current from the surface .
On account of the complicated nature of the relation between the photo-electric current and the potential difference between the electrodes , it is not enough to state , for example , that the current in air at 760 mms .
pressure is so many times that in air at 50 mms .
pressure , without specifying the exact conditions under which the observations were taken .
The method used in these experiments was to draw the complete curves connecting the current and the potential difference at each pressure examined , keeping the intensity of the ultraviolet illumination and the other conditions unaltered .
Great difficulty was encountered in finding a suitable source of ultraviolet light which would remain constant in intensity while long series of observations were being taken , but ultimately the spark between iron terminals in an atmosphere of pure dry hydrogen was found to answer excellently .
The spark gap was in parallel with three Leyden jars in the secondary circuit of an induction coil , used as a transformer .
The photo-electric currents were measured from a metal\#151 ; usually zinc\#151 ; surface placed a few millimetres behind a fine gauze , through which the light passed , and which served as the positive electrode .
A brass vessel , with a quartz window to admit the light , served to-contain the electrodes .
It was connected to pump , gauge , \amp ; c. , so that the pressure or gas could be changed at will .
A second similar apparatus was used as a control for the intensity of the light .
12 Photo-electric Discharge from Metallic Surfaces .
[ Apr. 24 , Series of curves were obtained , showing the relation between the photo-electric current and the potential at pressures ranging from 760 mm. to 0-0014 mm. They show that at pressures above about 1 mm.\#151 ; the actual pressure depends on the distance between the \#166 ; electrodes\#151 ; the current increases at first rapidly with the potential , then less rapidly , and finally , when a certain critical potential gradient has been reached , more rapidly again .
No true saturation currents were obtained at these pressures , though the middle portion of the curves were always less steep than the other portions .
The currents for the less steep part of the curves increased some twentyfold in value as the pressure was reduced from that of the atmosphere down to a pressure of about 1 mm. Below this pressure the current again decreased , and soon perfect saturation currents were obtained , which became smaller as the pressure was further diminished , though approaching a finite limit .
Curves connecting the potentials and corresponding photo-electric .
currents in air , carbon dioxide , and hydrogen at various pressures , were also obtained .
They show that at the higher pressures the \#166 ; currents in carbon dioxide are about 1*75 times those in hydrogen , and 1*3 times those in air , for corresponding points on the less steep portions of the current potential curves .
For the upper part of the curve , when we have ionisation by collision becoming the predominant factor , the relation between the currents is quite altered .
The curves obtained could , however , all be explained on the ionic theory of conduction both qualitatively and quantitatively .
Experiments were also carried out , and the corresponding curves \#166 ; drawn , for the photo-electric currents in carbon monoxide , and for the currents using other electrodes than zinc ; the results obtained are given at length in the paper .

