]\gt ; Experiments on the Chemical Behaviour of Argon Helium .
By W. TERNENT COOKE , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received December 7 , 1905 , \mdash ; Read January 25 , 1906 .
) Historical and droductory.\mdash ; The discoverers of argon , and amsay , showed* that when subjected to very severe chemical treatment the gas failed to combine with any other element .
Later on Collie and Ramsay also showed that helium resembled in being chemically inactive .
Moissan and BerthelotS both carlied out experiments with Out neither obtained real proof of any power of argon to enter into chemical combination .
It has always been assumed that if union of argon or helium with any other element occtlrred the action would be strongly endothermic , and experiments have always been framed in such a way as to impart to the system a plentiful supply of There being a sufficient quantity of both gases at disposal , it was deemed desirable to make further experiments on the chemical behaviour of argon and helium , and to work at temperatul.es higher than those which hitherto usually been employed .
Then , again , it was desired to obtain , if possible , evidences of partial combination , and to end experiments on the vapour densities of various in both gases , at telnperatures between 1200o and 1300o C. , were cal.ried out .
When a known weight of a substance is vaporised in a given volume of , which is chemically inert towal.ds the substance , we can calculate the density of the vapour , if we know the final temperature and pressure of the aseous mixture .
If , however , the of the substance combines totally , the lcsulting coml ) ound will have , enerally , a , density than that of the vapour of the substance .
High , then , for the density may be taken as indicative of chemical combination , even if the colnbination be but partial .
ubed in this work was to obtain values for the densities of rious elements in inert gases , and to compare these values with those found in the tpparatus when argon or helinm the gas used .
' Phil. Trans , p. 231 .
'Roy .
So .
Pro .
Rend vol. 120 , ) ' vol. 12 vol. 129 , pp. On the Chemical of Argon and Helium .
values for the densities were considered as evidence of the occurrence of chemical combination .
* \mdash ; Heat was supplied means of an electrical resistance oven , and temperatures were determined by means of a thermocouple of platinum\mdash ; rhodioplatinum\mdash ; which was calibrated by the method of fixed points .
The main portions of the apparatus , which is essentially a Victor Meyer apparatus , is shown in the sketch:\mdash ; is a constant volume omet x , connected at to a mov reservoir cury .
tubing at leads to a Topler pump .
is a -tube , used for introducing into the apparatus .
is a differential Ilometer .
is a silica glass tube , 25 cm .
long , 12 mm. internal diameter , and about ) mm. thick in walls ; 15 to 16 cm .
of its length projected into the oven .
is a lass head-piece , which was secured to the silica tube by memls of thick rubber tubin .
This rubber joint was surrounded with mercury .
is a stopper working in a ground glass joint .
Tile stopper is shaped like a spoon at one end , to hold the substance previous to its dropped into the silica tube .
is electric ) ) .
coul ) are taps .
of all the air been nped ( of the , that the temperature is }iciently 1 thnt a weighed by .
S'ir ittirxm Ramsa ?
y.\mdash ; It has been noticed ever since discovery of argon metals } as platinum , gnebium , , used negative electrodes in Dr. W. T. Cooke .
Experiments on the [ Dec. 7 , amount of substance is in the spoon , ready to be dropped .
Helium , say , is admitted into the apparatus through the pillary U-tube , , and the pressure of the obtained by means of ) absolute manometer .
The tap , , is closed , the level of the liquid in the left limb of differential manometer noted , the tap , , closed , and the contents of the spoon tipped out .
The level of the liquid in the left litnb of the differential manometer rises , and the reading of this is taken .
The temperature is then immediately read .
All the necessary having been thus ascertained , helium is pumped out , and the oven ] lowed to cool .
Calculation of fie .\mdash ; It will be seen that the volume the vapour is determined indirectly , , by the increase of pressure it occasions .
To find the volume , consider first differential manometer .
At the inning of the experiment the pressure , , is equal in both limbs .
Call the volume of the closed , the volume of the open limb .
When the substance vaporises the alteration of the of tho liquid in both limbs is equal .
The volume of the closed liml ) becomes and the pressure where .
In the open the pressure becomes , and the volume .
Now is the ) acement of the level of the liquid , supposing it to be mercury .
If , , the mass of the , aseous contents of the open limb had remained constant , it would have occupied , under the pressure , a volume ) instend of .
The volume of the a Pliicker tube , " " splashed\ldquo ; much more .
in that than in oxygen , , or hydrogen , at low pressures .
After the discovery of other inert gases , this observation was a matter of almost daily occurrence .
An nation of tl1is remarkable phenomenou may be in the supposition that the ted to the gas at its surface contact with the electrode is sufficient to cause chemic coml ) ination between the two in that legion .
On leaving the electrode , vever , the ) posed endothermic compound may be imagined to dissociate , and the be simultaneous deposit of the metal on the walls of the tube .
Similar ] ) entH with zinc , dlnium , antinlony , and mercury have shown that , too , when in an atmosplJere of one of these ases , volatilise much more easily than in or ogen .
It has also been often noticed that 01 ) a thtl tube , in which operation the gas stood in contact ) crcury , the ectrmu of lelCllly is seetl in the more frequentl ) to { ] ) treatment .
Thebe facts ford ) idcnce that occurs to a limited veen m and the indiffc of helium to the bilcnt in tact with beuzcne tl1at , so long as the ; but ) tion , the be( , this ] } lines oi lnel .
Cll ) .
lIere that ) ) of the ry , but soon ab 1905 .
] Behaviour of Argo and vapour at this pressure is , therefore , .
Calculating for .
pressnre , we have for the volume of the vapour .
( A ) By hing the mercury contained between any two points in the manometer tube it was found that every millimetre of length corresponded to a volume of .
Hence , , expressed in Again and Inserting these values into equation , we ( B ) was determined by finding the of to fill the space , and by measuring the mount of dry air contained in that volume of the apparatus .
We have now the volume in cubic centimetres of the pour ) a known of substance , the volume determine ed a pressur and a temperature C. densit of the vapour , taking , is ivcn by the equation ' ( C ) where g weight of substance in and gralnme is the of llitrc of at N.T.P. When the apparatus was used to vapoul ' density of zinc in Jtibrogen , the ound from three to four times too reat .
An error in this direction is to be expected , since the relative dimensions of the various parts of the apparatus were unsuitable for an intended to absolute values .
The of the heated part should be many times reater than that of the cooler part , whereas in the case about one-third of the volume , that is the of the open limb of the diffcrential nlanonleter , was at the thest temperature .
Ioreover , diffnsion and mixing is very rapid at .
Since , however , in the Dr. W. T. Cooke .
on the [ Dec. present case , differential results only are required , comparative fures were ained by determining the density of the substance used in some indifferent gas besides in argon and helium .
For the sake of convenience , figures are reduced to absolute values .
The reducing factor is obtained by calibrating the apparatus , as a standard the of the found zinc in an atmosphere of of five determinations btJave the value 111 .
This value multiplied by ) , which is the vapour density of when is taken as unity .
* Hence , to reduce to its absolute value , density of a vapour lltlltiplied by There is another fact to be considered .
Ill a like helium , diffusion is much more rapid in or , and values for the density are likely to be tained in the hter gas .
For the sake of a juster comparison , a series of deternninations ) made in , if the nature of the substance allowed .
Hencc , in lnaking comparisons , values found in are compared with those found in , and values in helium with those in hydrogen .
Used.\mdash ; The and helium carefully pUlified in the usual way by passage over heated lime and nesiu mixture , and also over heated copper oxide .
examination showed that each gas was practically pure , a trace of hydrogen only ] ) present .
" " Atmospheric\ldquo ; was used ; obtained by in dry air , and finally part of the phosphorus in the left .
Hydrogen was made from electrolytic pure sulphuric acid .
All the ases used were ( dried before use ) over phosphorus pentoxide .
Of the substances whose vapour densiCies } required , ordinary samples were taken , the purest at hand being .
The substances used were zinc , cadmium , mercury , sulphur , selenium , arsenic .
The number of elements which could be used was linnited .
The tempelatures were not high enough to vaporise eavy metals such as lead or tin .
Antimony , bismuth , and just vaporise.ismuth , too , silica slightly .
Phosphorus presented experimentttl difticulties which could not be overcome .
The use of , etc. , caleiunn , , and ncsium is out of the question , since heated silica is at once cked by thenn .
size of the apparatus bled only very small amounts of the ) to be used , and less than 3 millirrtammesb weae sufficient .
} ltade by the method of swings .
} calculated to ttnnte , and are accurate to wiLhin 2 per cent. vol. p. 3 Cf .
Biitz Mever , ' Zeit .
) ' vol. 4 , pp. ) , ) 1905 .
] Behaviour of and Helium .
Table of esults .
Dr. W. T. Cooke .
Experiments on he abJe of Discussion of king the elements separately and compa1ing the densities in argon with those in , and densities in ] } elium with those in , it will be seen that there is a distinct tendency of zinc 1905 .
] Chemical of Argon and Helium .
and argon to combine , the density being 12 per cent. higher in argon than in nitrogen .
With helium there is no tendency to combine .
Cadmium and argon show no tendency to combine , but in helium the density is per cent. higher than in hydrogen .
The values for mercury are very irregular .
The ularity is due nJainly to the fact that when the globule of mercury , which is very small , is placed in position for dropping , it is at a temperature high enough to melt sulphur , and for some time is exposed to a vacuum .
Under these conditions it undoubtedly suffers loss in .
The mean values show that there is a tendency for the metal to combine with argon and with helium .
In the case of arsenic , of sulphur , and of selenium , it is , of course , impossible to obtain values in hydrogen , since chemical combination takes place .
Arsenic and sulphur show no tendency to combine with either gas , while selenium exhibits a slight tendency to combine with both .
I desire to tender my best thanks to Professor Sir William Ramsay , who suggested the research to me , and besides kindly placing at my disposal the argon helium necessary for the gave me every encouragement in the work .

