On a New Phenomenon of Electro-magnetism .
By Sir Humphry Davy .
Bart. Pres. R.S. Read March 6 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 153 .
] About fifteen months ago it occurred to Sir Humphry Davy to try the action of a magnet upon mercury , connected in the electric circuit ; and having very lately had occasion to repeat the experiment in a more perfect manner , by the aid of a battery , consisting of a single pair of plates of about 100 square feet , constructed for the London Institution , under the direction of Mr. Pepys , he is induced to lay the result of the experiment before the Royal Society , as pre- , senting a phenomenon which may prove important hereafter in its relations to the theory of electro-magnetism .
When two wires were placed in a basin of mercury , perpendicular to the surface , and in the voltaic circuit of the above-mentioned battery , the mercury revolved according to the common law of elec- .
tro-magnetic rotation , upon presenting a magnet either above or below the wires ; and the velocity was increased by using the opposite poles of two magnets , one above and the other below the mercury .
When the pole of the magnet was held above the mercury , .
and between the two wires , the circular motion ceased , and currents took place in the mercury in opposite directions .
These and other circumstances induced Sir Humphry Davy to believe that the passage of the electricity through the mercury , produced motions independent of the magnet , and that the rotations described were owing to a composition of forces ; and , moreover , that such motions would , from the position of the wires , occur chiefly at the lower surface of the mercury ; he therefore inverted the form of the experiment , bringing the copper wires through two holes in the bottom of a glass basin , with so much mercury in it as to stand one tenth of an inch above the polished ends of the wires .
Upon making the communication with the battery , the surface of the mercury was elevated into a small cone above each of the wires , from which waves flowed off in all directions , the only apparent point of rest being central , between the wires .
These cones were diminished by the approximation of the pole of a magnet , which produced rotation , and on bringing it near enough , a depression of the mercury above the pole .
The above phenomenon appeared , independent of any elevation in the temperature of the mercury , nor can it be attributed to electric repulsion .
It must be referred to forces producing motions in right lines , or undulations from the surfaces of the wires as a centre ; and it seems , says the author , strongly opposed to the idea of the electro-magnetic results , being produced by the motion of a single imponderable fluid .

