53 1874 .
] Dr. J. Stenhouse on the History of the considerable decomposition during distillation , I analyzed , in preference , a portion of the remainder , which had been distilled , having previously dried it at 100 ' , and agitated it with metallic mercury to remove a trace of free iodine .
The following are the results of the analysis:\#151 ; 0 Theory ?
L Experiment .
c ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7*64 7'67 II ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0-96 Ml This is a colourless oily liquid ; like the others it has a sweet and biting taste .
Its specific gravity at 29 ' Cent , is 2-86 .
Heated to the temperature of 100 ' in a sealed tube with moist oxide of silver it occasioned a violent explosion .
Heated in an open retort with the same body , it evolved carbonic acid gas and bromide of vinyl .
II .
" Contributions to the History of the Orcins.\#151 ; No. IV .
On the Iodo-derivatives of the Orcins/ - ' By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received November 10 , 1873 .
A preliminary notice on these compounds has already appeared in the ' Chemical News , ' vol. xxvi .
p. 279 ; and the present paper contains a more detailed account of my experiments .
In 1864* I published an account of a crystalline teriodorcin obtained by precipitating an aqueous solution of orcin with a solution of iodine monochloride , but I found I was unable to prepare any other iodine derivative of orcin by this process .
It seems probable , however , that the method devised some years ago by Prof. Hlasiwetzf , and communicated by him at the meeting of the " Naturforscher und Aerzte in Innsbruck , " would yield the lower substitution compounds .
This was found to be the case ; for on agitating an ethereal solution containing equal molecular weights of orcin and iodine with dry precipitated mercuric oxide , the colour rapidly disappears , and monoiodorcin is formed ; this may be obtained by distilling off the ether and crystallizing the residue from benzol , in order to separate an uncrystallizable oily compound which accompanies it .
It is , however , still contaminated with a small quantity of mercuric iodide , which obstinately adheres to the substance , and can only be removed by recrystallization from a dilute aqueous solution of potassium iodide ; this difficulty arises from the circumstance that mercuric iodide is more or less soluble in most of the liquids usually employed as solvents .
For this reason I found it advisable to substitute plumbic oxide for the corresponding mercury compound originally proposed by Hlasiwetz .
Monoiodorcin , C7 IT I 02.\#151 ; One part of pure dry orcin is dissolved in * Journ. Cliom .
Soc. vol. xvii .
p. 327 .
t Deut .
chem .
Ges .
Bor .
II .
551 .
54 Dr. J. Stenhouse on the [ Jan. 8 , six parts of ether ; then two parts of iodine are added , and the mixture agitated until the whole of the iodine is dissolved ; nine parts of very finely powdered lead oxide ( litharge ) are now introduced in small portions at a time with frequent agitation .
A marked action takes place , accompanied by development of heat , and the colour of the solution rapidly disappears .
* On distilling off the ether and extracting the residue with hot benzol , the iodorcin separates in the crystalline state on cooling .
Two or three alternate crystallizations from benzol and from water suffice to render the compound pure ; but care must be taken not to boil the aqueous solution for any length of time , as the iodorcin is thereby partially decomposed .
Monoiodorcin in a pure state crystallizes in colourless prisms , which melt at 86'-5 , and decompose with evolution of violet vapours of iodine when strongly heated .
Concentrated sulphuric acid has but little action on the substance in the cold ; but when gently heated with it , the iodorcin is decomposed and iodine is freely liberated .
Warm nitric acid likewise acts energetically , evolving nitrous fumes and liberating iodine .
Iodorcin is only slightly soluble in cold water , but readily in hot water .
It is very soluble in ether and in hot alcohol , moderately so in benzol and in hot petroleum ( crystallizing out from the latter almost entirely on cooling ) , slightly soluble in carbonic disulphide .
It is quite destitute of the peculiar astringent sweet taste so characteristic of pure orcin .
Dried in vacuo and submitted to analysis , it gave the following results:\#151 ; I. -332 gramme substance gave -311 gramme argentic iodide .
XJ .
*256 gramme substance gave '314 gramme carbonic anhydride and .067 gramme water .
C7 = 84 Theory .
33-60 I. II .
33:44 H7 = 7 2-80 ... .
2-90 I = 127 50*80 50-63 ... .
Oa - 32 12-80 \#151 ; \#151 ; 250 100-00 These numbers correspond with those required by the formula C7 H71 Oa . .
Monoiodresorcin , C6H61Oa \#151 ; This compound is prepared m a similar , manner as the corresponding orcin compound : 10 parts of resorcin and 24 of iodine are dissolved in 60 of ether , and about 110 of lead oxide are gradually added .
After removal of the ether and extraction with benzol , the iodorcin is purified by crystallization from hot water , in which it is much more soluble than the iodorcin .
Iodresorcin crystallizes in rhom-boidal prisms , which are very difficult to obtain colourless ; they melt at 67 ' , and , like those of the orcin derivative , decompose when strongly Histoi'y of the 1874 , ] heated .
It is much more soluble in water than iodorcin , and is very soluble iu alcohol or ether ; hot benzol dissolves it readily ; but it is only slightly soluble in carbonic disulphide .
When heated with nitric or sulphuric acid , it behaves like iodorcin .
The analytical results were obtained from the compound dried vacuo , at the ordinary temperature .
I. -343 gramme substance gave '341 gramme argentic iodide .
II .
*357 gramme substance gave '354 gramme argentic iodide .
III .
'265 gramme substance gave '298 gramme carbonic anhydride and '053 gramme water .
Theory .
Ca = 72 30-51 H , = 5 2-12 I = 127 53-81 09 = 32 13-56 236 100-00 The numbers agree with the formula C6 Hs I 02 .
In preparing teriodorcin by the action of iodine protochloride on orcin , it was observed that a comparatively large amount of the dilute solution of iodine chloride could be added to the aqueous solution of orcin before a permanent precipitate of teriodorcin was produced .
It seemed possible that an intermediate iodine derivative was first formed , far more soluble than the teriodorcin , and which subsequently became converted into the latter by the further action of the chloride of iodine .
In order to ascertain whether this was actually the case , a dilute solution of iodine protochloride was added to an aqueous solution of orcin containing one part of orcin in fifty of water , as long as the precipitate redissolved in the liquid on agitation .
The addition of iodine was then stopped , and the filtered solution agitated with ether .
The ethereal solution , on evaporation , left an oily uncrystallizable liquid which was readily soluble in water , and which evolved iodine when heated with concentrated sulphuric acid : this liquid , on standing some days , deposited a few crystals of unaltered orcin .
I cannot conclude this paper without acknowledging the very efficient aid I have received from my assistant , Mr. Charles Edward Groves , in conducting this investigation .
I. II .
III .
... ... ... ... . .
30-67 ... ... ... ... . .
2-22 53-73 53-58

