354 Mr. S. Vincent .
4 .
The bodies do not contain the chromogen which is alwa present in suprarenal medulla .
5 .
The lymphoid " head-kidney " presents none of the featnr anatomical or histological , which would lead one to conclude it h anything to do with the suprarenal gland : moreover , extracts pi pared from it have no physiological action , and contain chromogen .
6 .
Other portions of the kidney give the same negative results .
7 .
No other gland or tissue which might be suprarenal medulla revealed by the most careful dissection .
From these observations we are forced to the conclusion that tl medullary portion of the suprarenal capsules is non-existent Teleostean fishes.* * * S " The Effects of Extirpation of the Suprarenal Bodies of tl Eel ( .
Anguillacwguilla ) .
" By Swale Vincent , M.B. ( Lond. British Medical Association Research Scholar .
Con municated by Professor E. A. Schafer , E.R.S. Receive February 3 , \#151 ; Read February 10 , 1898 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Since an extract obtained from the suprarenal bodies of Tele ostean fishes produces no rise of blood-pressure when injeete into the blood-vessels of a living mammal , f and since the extrac produces no physiological effects when injected subcutaneously , \#163 ; and moreover , contains no chromogen , itS seems clear that these body ; contain nothing corresponding to the medulla of the suprarena capsules of the higher vertebrata .
S These results entirely corroborate( the opinion previously entertained from morphological and histo logical considerations , that the suprarenal gland of Teleostean fish ; consists entirely of cortex .
|| Now all we know about the functions of the suprarenal capsules is confined to the medulla , and although the cortex bears every appear- * There may of course be some gland or tissue somewhere in the body which pours into the blood-stream a substance having the same physiological action as that which can be extracted from mammalian medulla , but unless this were a definite gland , and possessed a recognisable histological structure , we could not reasonablj call it suprarenal medulla .
t Swale Vincent , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , p. 68 .
J Swale Vincent , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , p. 177 .
S B. Moore and Swale Vincent , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , p. 280 . !
| Swale Vincent , ' Anat .
Anz .
, ' vol. 14 , No. 5 , 1897 , p. 152 ; see also J. ^ Oliver and Schafer , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , No. 3 , 1895 , p. 269 ; Swale Vincent , ' Journ of Physiol. , ' vol. 22 ( Nos. 1 and 2 ) , Sept. 1 , 1897 , p. 119 .
Effects of Extirpation of the Suprarenal Bodies of the Eel .
355 " nce of being an actively secreting gland , one can at present offer no atisfactory suggestion as to the nature of its activity .
It is even a natter of surmise whether it has any functional relationship to the nedulla , considering its distinct origin and location in Elasmobranch ishes.* * * S It is almost universally acknowledged that removal of the suprarenal gland in mammals ( Brown-Sequard , f Tizzoni , J and Oliver md Schafer S ) , and in frogs ( Abelous and Langlois|| ) , is invariably olio wed , sooner or later , by death , and that the symptoms during* ife are those of extreme muscular prostration .
Of course in all ; hese cases both cortex and medulla have been removed together , an l t would be impossible to state how far the fatal effects were due to oss of the medullary substance , and how far to the loss of the cortical .
But Teleostean fishes , having only cortex , seemed to offer m admirable opportunity of testing how far the cortical suprarenal glands were essential to the life of the animal .
Among Teleosts the eel is practically the only fish available for this purpose ; since in most species the suprarenal bodies lie on the iorsal surface of the kidney , and would be practically inaccessible luring life .
Again , the length of time an eel will live out of water , and its power of resistance to the shock of operation , render it pecu-iarly suitable for extirpation experiments .
The eels were anaesthetised by being placed for a short time in chloroform water .
The operations were performed as aseptically as possible , but without the use of chemical antiseptics .
An incision an inch or so in length was made to one side of the anus , reaching the middle line in front of this aperture .
The abdominal cavity being opened , the edges of the wound were held apart by means of retractors .
The gut was pushed over to one side , and the ventral surface of the kidney laid bare .
The suprarenal bodies were then picked out with a pair of fine curved forceps .
After any bleeding had been checked , the wound was sewn up and dressed with a layer of flexible collodion .
In three cases in which the animals survived the operation , they have appeared quite lively soon after being put back in the tank .
One survived twenty-eight days , another sixty-four days , and a third was killed on the 119th day .
These experiments show that an eel will survive the operation of extirpation for a very much longer * Swale Vincent , ' Zool. Soc. Lond. Trans. , ' rol .
14 , Part III , April , 1897 , pp. 52\#151 ; 56 ; also ' JBirm .
Not .
Hist , and Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1896 , vol. 10 , Part I , p. 1 .
f ' Journ. de la Physiol. , ' rol .
1 , 1858 .
X ' Ziegler 's Bertrage , ' vol. 6 , 1889 , and ' Arch. ital .
de Biol. , ' vol 10 .
S Loc .
cit. i| ' Coxnpt .
Bend , de la Soc. de Biol. , ' 1891 ; also ibid. , 1892 , and 'Archives de Physiol. , ' 1892 .
Mr. E. Wilson .
The Kelvin Quadrant time than mammals or frogs , and the difference is so striking that one mast attribute it to the absence of medulla in Teleosts , and must assume that the cortical gland is not absolutely essential to the life of the animal .
The longest time that a frog will survive removal of its capsules is , according to Abelous and Langlois , * twelve or thirteen days , and this period is shortened in the summer to forty-eight hours .
Mammals usually die in a day or two .
The validity of these experiments depends obviously upon the fact that all suprarenal material has been actually removed at the operation .
This has been verified in two ways .
In the first place , previous study of the anatomy of the organs in many individuals has shown that the suprarenals are never more than two in number .
Secondly , all three animals have been carefully dissected post mortem , and no trace of suprarenal bodies has been found to be left behind.f PettitJ has described a true physiological compensatory hypertrophy of one suprarenal in the eel after the other one has been removed .
This indicates a secreting function for this cortical gland .
Pettit looks upon this organ in the eel as the fundamental type of the suprarenal capsule ; but this view is quite untenable in the face of the facts that it has none of the characters of the double suprarenal of mammals , and its removal does not cause death .
" The Kelvin Quadrant Electrometer as a Wattmeter and Voltmeter .
" By Ernest Wilson .
Communicated by Dr. J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. Received January 11 , \#151 ; Read January 27 , 1898 .
During the past seven years the author has had continued experience with the Kelvin quadrant electrometer , both in connection with scientific research and the training of electrical engineering students in the Siemens Laboratory , King 's College , London .
This paper embodies a good deal of the experience which he has gained with the instrument , and he has been fortunate in that two of these instruments were available .
The numbers of the instruments are 71 and 184 .
The writer was therefore able to test the one as a Wattmeter , using the other for the purpose of investigating the instantaneous rate at which work was being done by alternate currents .
T e instrument used as a Wattmeter ( No. 184 ) is of comparatively t For the* animal which lived 119 days this statement has been verified by Professor Schafer .
X ' Recherches sir les Capsules Surrenales , ' These .
Paris ( Felix Alcan ) , 1890 .

