1894 .
] Electrical Interference Phenomena .
349 lines came into view which were too feeble to be visible on the other photographs .
Sulphur is not the only substance which affects this spectrum , for instance , the banded spectrum of magnesia and the spectrum of lime also appear to intensify it .
It is probable that something similar takes place with regard to carbon ; we know that the spectrum is modified by the surrounding nitrogen of the atmosphere , and the rays of carbon increase the intensity of the nitrogen rays adjacent to the carbon lines , the effect being increased in the case of the spark by a saturated solution of zinc or calcium chloride .
The facts here set forth certainly favour the view that the lines in Hartley and Adeney 's spectrum of carbon are the lines of the element and not merely the edges of cyanogen bands .
Finally , I would point out that the carbon spectra of Eder and Yalenta are not quite the same as those obtained by me , for if the photographs published in the ' Journal of the Chemical Society , ' vol. 41 , p. 91 , are carefully examined with a strong magnifier , it will be seen that the graphite spectrum , Ho. 10 , on Plate II , yields neither the group III nor .group IY of cyanogen as depicted in spectrum Ho. 4 of the photogravure plate illustrating Eder and Yalenta 's paper ; at the same time it may also be remarked that it does not resemble the spectrum of moistened electrodes to which I have already drawn attention .
III .
" Electrical Interference Phenomena somewhat analogous to Newton 's Rings , but exhibited by Waves along Wires .
" By Edwin H. Barton , B.Sc. , late " 1851 Exhibition " Science Scholar .
Communicated by Professor Arthur W. Rucker , M.A. , F.R.S. Received February 20 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The preliminary paper* on this subject gave the results of a single experiment , and approximately accounted for them by a mathematical theory of the phenomena involved .
2 .
The present paper discusses the question of disturbances , and gives nine experiments .
Two of these are similar to the first experiment , but were made under better conditions ; the others were made either to lead to these improved conditions or in confirmation of the original fundamental conclusions .
3 .
The disturbances alluded to arise from the fact that the electrical waves are not suddenly lost after their first incidence upon the abnormal part of the secondary , but course to and fro until they die out .
A method of avoiding the greatest disturbance due to this cause is * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 54 , pp. 85\#151 ; 96 , 1893 .
350 On Rocks , tyc .
, from the Ka [ Apr. pointed out and adopted .
A correction is also calculated and applied for another disturbance which still remains .
4 .
The chief experiment* is on interference phenomena , somewhat analogous to Newton 's rings , by transmission .
The resultant curvet depends upon about 200 electrometer readings .
5 .
The experiments conclude with two examples j of modifications of the secondary which produce no reflexion .
These consisted respectively of thinner wires nearer together , and of thicker wires further apart , than the normal spacing .
In each case the capacity was practically unaltered by the change in the wires ; hence , as anticipated from the theory , no reflexion occurred . .
6 .
The systematic comparison of theory and experiment , madeS near the end of the paper , does not exhibit an absolute quantitative agreement .
Nevertheless , the two are so far concordant in all their general features as to be mutually confirmatory , and were approved by Professor Hertz|| as close approximations .
IV .
" On Rocks and Minerals collected by Mr. W. M. Conway-in the Karakoram-Himalayas .
" By T. G. Bonnet , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in University College , London , and Miss C. A. Raisin , B.Sc. Received February 15 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) During his journey in the Karakoram-Himalayas , Mr. W. M. Conway collected more than 300 specimens of rocks and minerals , generally rather small , which have been examined by the authors .
They give a general summary of the results obtained , together with the details of chief interest .
Among the rocks are numerous specimens of granite and gneiss ( the latter frequently pressure-modified granites ) , diorites , and hornblende schists , crystalline limestones and dolomites , calc-mica , micaceous , and other schists , ordinary limestones , sandstones with some conglomerates , argillites , slates , and phyllites , as well as some peculiar mottled felstones , pi'obably devitrified acid lavas , from one locality ( Golden Throne Peak ) .
Of these rocks , the most interesting are a dark green serpentine , very like a variety common in the Alps , some hornblendites , piedmontite-schists , schists with a secondary brown mica , the crystals in one case being quij ; e a quarter of an inch in diameter ; a partially altered argillaceous rock , in which small * Expt. V , arts .
42\#151 ; 48 .
t Curve E , fig. 10 .
XExpts .
VIII and IX , arts .
51\#151 ; 62 .
S Arts .
63\#151 ; 77 .
|| Under whose able guidance the work was carried out in Bonn , 1892-93 .

