182 Protoplasm through Walls of Vegetable Cells .
[ Dec. 20j IV , " On the Continuity of the Protoplasm through the Walls oi Vegetable Cells .
" By Walter Gardiner , B.A. , Scholar of Clare College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton-Dyer , C.M.G. , F.B.S. Received December 13 1883 .
Since the communications of November 11th , 1882 , and April 16th , 1883 , the author has been chiefly employed in testing and improving ; his methods , and adding to the number of plants in which he has been able to demonstrate the existence of a continuity of the protoplasm between adjacent cells .
In certain endosperm cells , e.g* Bentinckia Conda-panna , where the protoplasmic thr eads traversing the cell walls are particularly well developed , it is possible to see the threads perfectly clearly by merely cutting sections of the endosperm , and mounting them in dilute glycerine .
Taking the structure displayed by such a preparation as normal , the author has compared it with the preparations obtained after the action of Chlor .
Zinc .
Iod .
and sulphuric acid .
He finds that his method of swelling with Chlor .
Zinc .
Iod .
, and staining with Picric-Hoffmann Blue , is in every way perfectly satisfactory , since but little alteration of the structure occurs , and the staining with the Picric-Hoffmann Blue is limited to protoplasm .
The sulphuric acid method is in the main unsatisfactory , although it is valuable in the case of thin-walled tissue , where violent swelling must be resorted to ; and it is also valuable as affording most conclusive evidence of the existence of a protoplasmic continuity in those cases where the protoplasmic processes of pits cling to the pit-closing membrane .
He believes , however , that the results obtained Can only be rightly interpreted in the light of the results obtained with Chlor .
Zinc .
lod .
The possibility of seeing the threads depends upon their degree of tenuity and upon the thickness of the pitclosing membrane , and in extreme cases and in what are by far the more general cases , the only evidence of such perforating threads is afforded by the general staining of the pit-closing membrane .
Every transition between clearly defined threads in the substance of the closing membrane and the mere staining of that structure as a whole occurs .
The author has found that in all pitted tissue a pit-closing membrane , which is made evident by staining thin sections with iodine and mounting in Chlor .
Zinc .
Tod .
, is uniformly present , and that open pits do not occur .
The continuity of the protoplasm is always established by means of fine threads arranged in a sieve-structure , and not by means of comparatively large processes which the occurrence of open pits would necessitate .
He cannot therefore agree with observers whose statements necessitate the existence of such open pits .
Since the last communication the author has been able to observe 1883 .
] Note on the Constitution of Chlorophyll .
ihat a continuity of the protoplasm between adjacent cells occurs in s Dioncea muscipula , being especially pronounced in the most central layers of parenchymatous cells .
The parenchyma cells of the petioles of certain plants which , as H. von Mohl showed , are often thick walled and conspicuously pitted , afforded favourable material for investigation .
In Aucuba japonica , and Prunus lauro-cerasus , distinct threads could be made out crossing the pit-closing membrane .
In Ilex aquifolium there was a doubtful striation , and in the rest examined a mere coloration of the pit-membrane .
Examples of continuity have thus been shown to exist in ordinary parenchymatous tissue ; and this materially strengthens the belief that the phenomenon of the connexion of cells with one another is one of universal occurrence .
As to the function of the filaments , the author believes that in sieve-tubes and in endosperm-cells they may make possible a transference of solid materials , besides establishing a protoplasmic communication ; but in ordinary cells the only significance of the threads is , that by their means the protoplasm of isolated cells becomes connected , and that ) thus the communication of impulses from one part of the plant to another is insured .
Finally , the presence of these minute perforations of the cell-wall .need not lead to any modification of our general ideas as to the mechanics of the cell .
V. " Note on the Constitution of Chlorophyll .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1883 .
An examination of some products derived from chlorophyll , which has occupied me for some time , has led to the question of the true nature and constitution of chlorophyll , a question on which widely different opinions prevail .
Without entering into matters which concern the physiologist only , it may be said that to the chemist chlorophyll is simply an organic colouring-matter , the substance to which the green colour of leaves and other parts of plants is due .
Now colouring-matters are of three kinds .
To the first class belong such as occur ready formed and in a free state in vegetable and animal organisms , such as the colouring-matters of turmeric and safflower .
The second class comprises those that are formed from colourless chromogens by the combined action of alkalis and oxygen , the colouring-matters of log-wood and archil being well-known examples of this class .
These colouring-matters change rapidly when exposed to the further action of oxygen in the presence of alkali , but are quite vol. xxxvi .
0

