1893 .
] Displacement of a Rigid Body in Space by Rotations .
147 other parts for different times at a fixed distance from the light .
As a result it was found that , on development , the deposit was greatest when the exposure had been made at 2 ft. and diminished for each successive distance .
By applying the measures of the different blacknesses obtained at the different distances to the curve obtained by the measurement of the scale of exposures , it was found that the exposure at 24 ft. ought to have been prolonged by 4'3 times to give the same blackness as that at 2 ft. , the other distances giving intermediate results .
If the law held good , the actual blackness of deposit at 24 ft. would have been obtained had the same exposure been given at about 50 ft. Other experiments are in progress , but it seemed advisable , without waiting for their completion , , to make this addition to the paper , to show that the law fails both when short exposures and also feeble intensities of light are in question .
X. " On the Displacement of a Rigid Body in Space by Rotations .
Preliminary Note .
" By J. J. WALKER , F.R.S. Received May 19 , 1893 .
Having been led to study more particularly than , as far as I am aware , has hitherto been done the conditions of the arbitrary displacement of a rigid body in space by means of rotations only , the results arrived at in the case of the single pairs of axes seem to me of sufficient interest and completeness to warrant their being recorded .
A comparison of these results with those arrived at by Rodrigues in his classic memoir " Des lois geometriques qui regissent les deplacements d'un systeme solide dans l'espace ... .
" 'Liouville , ' vol. 5 , 1840 , at once suggesting itself , it may be proper here to recall the substance of the latter , and show how far they fall short of the object I propose to myself .
The case of displacement by successive rotations ronnd a pair of axes is discussed in S 13 ( pp. 395\#151 ; 396 ) , where it is shown that ( p. 390 ) , " Tout deplacement d'un systeme solide peut etre represent d'une infinite de manieres par la succession de deux rotations de ce systeme autour de deux axes fixes non con-vergents .
Le produit des sinus de ces demi-rotations multiplies par le sinus de Tangle de ces axes et par leur plus court distance , est ^oab pour tous ces couples d'axes conju , au produit du sinus de la demi-rotation du systeme autour de l'axe central du deplacement , multiply par la demi-translation absolve du systeme .
" Ihen ( p. 396 ) the converse of this theorem is affirmed , viz. , that " Tout deplacement . . .
peut toujours provenir , d'une infinite de manieres , de la succession de deux rotations autours de deux axes non-convergents pourvu que le produit . . .
In this conversion of the theorem above , it is strangely over- 148 On the Twenty-seven Lines on a Cubic Surface .
[ June 15 , looked that a displacement is not defined by the direction of axis , and amplitude , of the resultant rotation , together with the magnitude of the component of the corresponding translation along that direction ( for in this form the proof is given , the axis being drawn through one end of the common perpendicular to the particular couple in respect of which the theorem is demonstrated ) , since these elements are common to an infinity of displacements .
This being premised , the laws connecting pairs of axes by successive rotations round which a given displacement of a rigid body in space may be effected are as follows\#151 ; If the first axis f ' ) is taken arbitrarily , say parallel to a given vector , and passing through the term of a second given vector , f ' , its conjugate is parallel to a vector ( \#163 ; ) , the side common to three quadric cones , the constants of which are functions of g , and the vectors defining the displacement .
Each of these cones , whatever the direction of passes through one of three fixed vectors .
The directions of the axes being fixed in accordance with the above conditions , the locus of either axis is a plane , the places of the axes in which are so related that the connector of the feet of perpendiculars on them from any fixed point generates a ruled quadric surface .
[ The last three paragraphs have been altered ( July 15 ) after a correspondence , since the reading of the note on 15th June , with which Professor W. Burnside , F.R.S. ( who , however , is not responsible for any statement herein ) , favoured me ; as the result of which he sent me a geometrical proof that one axis might in all cases be taken arbitrarily both in position and direction .
On revising my analysis , I found that what I had taken as an equation of condition was reducible to an identity .
] XI .
" On a Graphical Representation of the Twenty-seven Lines on a Cubic Surface .
" By H. M. Taylor , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by A. R. Forsyth , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1893 , ( Abstract .
) The converse of Pascal 's well-known theorem may be stated thus : if two triangles be in perspective , their non-corresponding sides intersect in six points lying on a conic .
An extension of this theorem to three dimensions may be stated thus : if two tetrahedrons be in perspective , their non-corresponding faces intersect in twelve straight

