1874 .
] On Organisms in the Liquor Sanguinis .
391 before so crowded with these bodies , becomes , as the pustulation advances , entirely free from them .
8 .
The concluding section of the paper is occupied with the description of the secondary eruption , the anatomical characters of which very closely resemble those which have been already detailed .
Y. " Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun."\#151 ; No. IV .
By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Maps of the spectra of calcium , barium , and strontium have been constructed from photographs taken by the method described in a former communication ( the third of this series ) .
The maps comprise the portion of the spectrum extending from wave-length 3900 to wave-length 4500 , and are laid before the Society as a specimen of the results obtainable by the photographic method , in the hope of securing the cooperation of other observers .
The method of mapping is described in detail , and tables of wave-lengths accompany the maps .
The wave-lengths assigned to the new lines must be considered only as approximations to the truth .
Many of the coincidences between lines in distinct spectra recorded by former observers have been shown , by the photographic method , to be caused by the presence of one substance as an impurity in the other ; but a certain number of coincidences still remain undetermined .
The .question of the reversal of the new lines in the solar spectrum is reserved till better photographs can be obtained .
YI .
" An Account of certain Organisms occurring in the Liquor Sanguinis .
" By William Osler , M.D. Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 6 , 1874 .
In many diseased conditions of the body , occasionally also in perfectly healthy individuals and in many of the lower animals , careful investigation of the blood proves that , in addition to the usual elements , there exist pale granular masses , which on closer inspection present a corpuscular appearance ( Plate V. fig. 1 ) .
There are probably few observers in the habit of examining blood who have not , at some time or other , met with these structures , and have been puzzled for an explanation of their presence and nature .
vol. xxn .
2 n 392 Dr* W. Osier o Organisms [ June 18 , In size they vary greatly , from half or quarter that of a white blood-corpuscle , to enormous masses occupying a large area of the field or even stretching completely across it .
They usually assume a somewhat round or oval form , but may be elongated and narrow , or , from the existence of numerous projections , offer a very irregular outline .
They have a compact solid look , and by focusing are seen to possess considerable depth ; while in specimens examined without any reagents the filaments of fibrin adhere to them , and , entangled in their interior , white corpuscles are not unfrequently met with .
It is not from every mass that a judgment can be formed of their true nature , as the larger , more closely arranged ones have rather the appearance of a granular body , and it is with difficulty that the individual elements can be focused .
When , however , the more loosely composed ones are chosen , their intimate composition can be studied to advantage , especially at the borders , where only a single layer of corpuscles may exist ; and when examined with a high power ( 9 or 10 Hartnack ) these corpuscles are seen to be pale round disks , devoid of granules and with well-defined contours .
Some of the corpuscles generally float free in the fluid about the mass ; and if they turn half over their profile view has the appearance of a sharp dark line ( fig. 5 , \amp ; In water the individual corpuscles composing the mass swell greatly ; dilute acetic acid renders them more distinct , while dilute potash solutions quickly dissolve them .
Measurements give , for the large proportion of the corpuscles , a diameter ranging from one 8000th to one 10,000th of an inch ; the largest are as much as one 5000th , and the smallest from one 15,000th to one 24,000th of an inch ; so that they may be said to be from the size of a red corpuscle .
In the blood of cats , rabbits , dogs , guineapigs , and rats the masses are to be found in variable numbers .
New-born rats are specially to be recommended as objects of study , as in their blood the masses are commonly both numerous and large .
They occur also in the blood of foetal kittens .
Considering their prevalence in disease and among some of the lower animals , they have attracted but little notice , and possess a comparatively scanty literature .
The late Prof. Max Schultze * was the first , as far as I can ascertain , to describe and figure the masses in question .
He speaks of them as constant constituents of the blood of healthy individuals , but concludes that we know nothing of their origin or destiny , suggesting , however , at the same time that they may arise from the degeneration of granular white corpuscles .
Schultze 's observations were confined to the blood of healthy persons , and he seemed of the opinion that no pathological significance was to be attributed to them .
By far the most systematic account is given by Hr .
Riessf , in an * Archiv f. mib .
Anat .
Bd .
i. t Reichert u. Du Bois-Reymond 's Archiv , 1872 .
1874 .
] w the Liquor Sanguinis .
393 article in which he records the results of a long series of observations on their presence in various acute and chronic diseases .
His investigations of the blood of patients , which were much more extensive than any I have been able to undertake , show that , in all exanthems and chronic affections of whatever sort , indeed in almost all cases attended with disturbance of function and debility , these masses are to be found .
He concludes that their number is in no proportion to the severity of the disease , and that they are more numerous in the latter stages of an affection , after the acute symptoms have subsided .
The former of these propositions is undoubtedly true , as I have rarely found masses larger or more abundant than I , at one time , obtained from my own blood when in a condition of perfect health .
These two accounts may be said to comprise every thing of any importance that has been written concerning these bodies .
The following observers refer to them cursorily:\#151 ; Erb * , in a paper on the development of the red corpuscles , speaks of their presence under both healthy and diseased conditions : he had hoped , in the beginning of his research , that they might stand , as Zimmerman supposes ( see below ) , in some connexion with the origin and development of the red corpuscles ; but , as he proceeded , the fallacy of this view became evident to him .
Bettelheim t seems to refer to these corpuscles when he speaks of finding in the blood of persons , healthy as well as diseased , small punctiform , or rod-shaped , corpuscles of various sizes .
Christol and Kiener j describe in blood small round corpuscles , whose measurements agree with the ones under consideration ; and they also speak of their exhibiting slight movements .
Riess S , in a criticism on a work of the next-mentioned author , again refers to these masses , and reiterates his statements concerning them .
Birsch-Hirschfeld|| had noticed them and the similarity the corpuscles bore to micrococci , and suggests that under some conditions Bacteria might develop from them .
Zimmerman has described corpuscular elements in the blood , which , with reference to the bodies in question , demand a notice here .
He let blood flow directly into a solution of a neutral salt , and , after the subsidence of the coloured elements , examined the supernatant serum , in which he found , in extraordinary numbers , small , round , colourless corpuscles with weak contours , to which he gave the name of " elementary corpuscles .
" These he met with in human blood both in health and disease and in the blood of the lower animals ; and he found gradations between the smaller ( always colourless ) forms and full-sized red corpuscles .
He gives measurements ( for the smaller ones , from one 1000th to one 800th of a line ; the largest , one * Virchow 's Archiv , Bd .
xxxiv .
t Wiener med .
Press , 1868 , No. 13 .
t Comptes Rendus , Ixvii .
1054 .
Quoted in ' Centralblatt , ' 1869 , p. 96 .
S Centralblatt , 1873 , No. 34 .
jj Centralblatt , 1873 , No. 39 .
Virchow 's Archiv , Bd .
xviii .
2h2 394 Dr. W. Osier on Organisms [ June 18 , 500th to one 400th of a line ) , and speaks of them also as occurring in clumps and groups of globules .
Tt is clear , on reading his account , that in part , at any rate , he refers to the corpuscles above described .
Gradations such as he noticed between these and the coloured elements I have never met with , and undoubtedly he was dealing with the latter in a partially decolourized condition .
Lostorfer 's * corpuscles , which attracted such attention a few years ago from the assertion of the discoverer that they were peculiar to the blood of syphilitic patients , require for their production an artificial culture in the moist chamber extending over several days .
They appear first after two or three days , or even sooner , as small bright corpuscles , partly at rest , partly in motion , which continue to increase in size , till , by the sixth or seventh day , they have attained the diameter of a red corpuscle , and may possess numerous processes or contain vacuoles in their interior .
Blood from healthy individuals , as well as from diseases other than syphilis , has been shown to yield these corpuscles ; and the general opinion at present held of them is that they are of an albuminoid nature .
The question at once most naturally arose , How is it possible for such masses , some measuring even one 400th of an inch , to pass through the capillaries , unless supposed to possess a degree of extensibility and elasticity such as their composition hardly warranted attributing to them ?
Neither Max Schultze nor Riess offer any suggestion on this point , though the latter thinks that they might , under some conditions , produce embolism .
During the examination of a portion of loose connective tissue from the back of a young rat , in a large vein which happened to be in the specimen , these same corpuscles wera seen , not , however , , aggregated together , but isolated and single among the blood-corpuscles ( fig. 8 ) ; and repeated observations demonstrated the fact that , in a drop of blood taken from one of these young animals , the corpuscles were always to be found accumulated together ; while , on the other hand , in the vessels ( whether veins , arteries , or capillaries ) of the same rat they were always present as separate elements , showing no tendency to adhere to one another .
The masses , then , are formed at the moment of the withdrawal of the blood , from corpuscles previously circulating free in it .
To proceed now to the main subject of my communication .
If a drop of blood containing these masses ' is mixed on a slide with an equal quantity of saline solution , per cent. , or , better still , perfectly fresh serum , covered , surrounded with oil , and kept at a temperature of about 37 ' C. , a remarkable change begins in the masses .
If one of the latter is chosen for observation , and its outline carefully noted , it is seen , at first , that the edge presents a tolerably uniform appearance , a few filaments of * Wiener med .
Presse , 1872 , p. 93 .
Wiener med .
Wochenschrift , 1872 , No.8 .
Article in Arcliiv f. Dermatolog .
1872 .
1874 .
] in the Liquor Sanguinis .
395 fibrin perhaps adhering to it , or a few small corpuscles lying free in the vicinity .
These latter soon exhibit apparent Brownian movements , frequently turning half over , and showing their dark rod-like border ( fig. 5 , a , b ) .
After a short time an alteration is noticed in the presence of fine projections from the margins of the mass , which may be either perfectly straight , or each may present an oval swelling at the free or attached end or else in the middle ( fig. 2 , It is further seen that the edges of the mass are now less dense , more loosely arranged , or , if small , it may have a radiated aspect .
Sometimes , before any filaments are seen , a loosening takes place in the periphery of the mass , and among these semifree corpuscles the first development occurs .
The projecting filaments above mentioned soon begin a wavy motion , and finally break off from the mass , moving away free in the fluid .
This process , at first limited , soon becomes more general ; the number of filaments which project from the mass increases , and they may be seen not only at the lateral borders , but also , by altering the focus , on the surface of the mass , as dark , sharply defined objects .
The detachment of the filaments proceeds rapidly ; and in a short time the whole area for some distance from the margins is alive with moving forms ( fig. 2 , c , and fig. 3 ) , which spread themselves more and more peripherally as the development continues in the centre .
In addition to the various filaments , swarming granules are present in abundance , and give to the circumference a cloudy aspect , making it difficult to define the individual forms .
The mass has now become perceptibly smaller , more granular , its borders indistinct and merged in the swarming cloud about them ; but corpuscles are still to be seen in it , as well as free in the field .
A variable time is taken to arrive at this stage ; usually , however , it takes place within an hour and a half , or even much less .
The variety of the forms increases as the development goes on ; and whereas , at first , spermatozoon-like or spindle-shaped corpuscles were almost exclusively to be seen , later more irregular forms appear , possessing two , three , or even more tail-like processes of extreme delicacy ( fig. 5,1c ) .
The more active ones wander towards the periphery , pass out of the field , and become lost among the blood-corpuscles .
The process reaches its height within 2| hours , and from this time begins almost imperceptibly to decline ; the area about the mass is less densely occupied by the moving forms , and by degrees becomes clearer , till at last , after six or seven hours ( often less ) , scarcely an element is to be seen in the field , and a granular body , in which a few corpuscles yet exist , is all that I'emains of the mass .
The above represents a typical development from a large mass in serum , such as that seen in fig. 3* .
We have next to study more in detail the process of development and the* resulting forms .
Commonly , the first appearance of activity is * The mass from which this sketch was taken was seen in full development by several of the foreign visitors to the British Medical Association last year .
396 Dr. W. Osier on Organisms [ June 18 , displayed by the small free corpuscles at the margins , which , previously quiescent , begin a species of jerky irregular movement , at one time with their pale disk-surfaces uppermost , at another presenting their dark linear profiles ( fig. 5 , a \amp ; b ) .
Not unfrequently , some of these are seen with a larger or smaller segment of their circumference thicker and darker than the other ( fig. 5 , c ) .
Earliest , and perhaps the most plentiful , of the forms are those of a spermatozoon-like shape ( fig. 5 , d ) , attached to the mass either by the head or tail ; while , simultaneously , long bow-shaped filaments appear ( fig. 5 , e ) , having an enlargement in the centre .
Straight hair-like filaments ( fig. 5 , / ) may also be seen , but they are not very numerous .
The time which elapses before they begin the wavy movement is very variable , as is also the time when they break away after once beginning it .
Eila-ments may be seen perfectly quiescent for more than half an hour before they move , and others may be observed quite as long in motion before they succeed in breaking away from the mass .
Commonly it is in the smaller masses , and where the development is feeble , that filaments remain for any time adherent .
The spermatozoon-like forms appear , at the head , on one view flattened and pale , on the other dark and linear ( fig. 5 , d ) ; consequently the head is discoid , not spheroidal .
The bowshaped filaments also present a dark straight aspect when they turn over ( fig. 5 , e ) , and are by far the longest of the forms , some measuring as much as one 900th of an inch .
Many intermediate forms between the round discoid corpuscles and those with long tails are met with in the field , and are figured at fig. 5 , g. Small rod-shaped forms are very numerous , most of which , however , on one aspect look corpuscular ; but in others this cannot be detected , or only with the greatest difficulty ; slight enlargements at each end may also be seen occasionally in these forms ( fig. 5 , h ) .
Usually late to appear , and more often seen in the profuse developments from large masses , are the forms with three or more tail-like processes attached to a small central body ( fig. 5 , \amp ; ) .
Among the granules it is extremely difficult to determine accurately the number of these processes , the apparent number of which may also vary in the different positions assumed by the element .
As to the ultimate destiny of the individual forms , I have not much to offer ; I have watched single ones , with this view , for several consecutive hours without noticing any material alteration in them .
The one represented at fig. 6 was watched for four hours , that at fig. 7 for five , and the changes sketched .
The difficulty of following up individual filaments in this way is very great , not only from the ensuing weariness , but from the obstacle the red corpuscles offer to it .
With regard to the movement of the filaments , this , at first sight , bears some resemblance to that known as the Brownian , exhibited by 1874 .
] in the Liquor Sanguinis .
397 granules in the field , or sometimes by the red corpuscles but an evident difference is soon noticed in the fact that , while the former ( also the small corpuscles ) undergo a change of place , the latter remain constant in one position or vary but little .
Movements like those of the ordinary rod-shaped Bacteria are not exhibited by them .
Circumstances which influence the development.\#151 ; In blood , without the addition of saline solution or serum , no change takes place in the masses even after prolonged warming .
A temperature of about 3/ 0 .
is necessary for the process ; none occurs at the ordinary temperature , with or without the addition of fluid .
Fresh serum is the medium most favourable to the process , added in quantity equal to the amount of blood .
Not every mass develops when placed under conditions apparently favourable ; but for this no good reason can , at present , be offered .
Fig. 8 represents the corpuscles among the red ones while in the vessel ; and , as is there seen , they appear somewhat more elliptical on the profile view , and more elongated , than in blood after withdrawal , but present the same disk-like surfaces when they roll over .
On adding saline solution or serum , and warming the preparation , development proceeds , but not to such an extent as from the masses .
The individual corpuscles become elongated , some tailed , and they move about in the vessel .
At fig. 9 they are seen in the vessel after three hours on the warm stage : the remarkable form seen at a was one 1300th of an inch in length , and had moved up from the opposite end of the vessel .
It must still be confessed , with Max Schultze , that we know nothing of the origin or destiny of these corpuscles ; and once admit their existence as individual elements circulating in the blood , his suggestion , and Fiess 's assertion that the masses arise from the disintegration of white corpuscles , becomes quite untenable .
" We must also confess the same ignorance of the reasons of their increase in disease ; nor do we know at all what influence they may exert in the course of chronic affections .
Finally , as there is no evidence that these bodies are in organic continuity with any other recognized animal or vegetable form , or possess the power of reproduction , nothing can at present be said of their nature or of their relation to Bacteria .
These observations were carried on in the Physiological Laboratory of University College , and my thanks are due to Prof. Sanderson and Mr. Schafer for advice and valuable assistance .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
Plate V. Fig. 1 .
Common forms of the masses from healthy blood .
( Ocular o , Objective 5 .
) Fig. 2 .
A mass from healthy blood , in saline solution , showing stages of development : a , at 10 a.m. ; b , at 10.30 a.m. ; at 11 a.m. ( Ocular 3 , Objective 7 .
) 398 Messrs. Tiemann Haarmann on [ June 18 , Pig .
3 .
Mass from blood of young rat ( in serum ) in full development , after two hours ' warming .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 7 .
) Fig. 4 .
Mass ( young rat ) with blood-corpuscles about it , to show the relative sizes .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 5 .
) Fig. 5 .
Some of the developed forms as seen with No. 11 Hartnack .
( See text .
) Fig. 6 .
Form watched for four hours .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 9 .
) Fig. 7 .
Form watched for five hours .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 9 .
) Fig. 8 .
Small vein in connective tissue from the back of a young rat , showing the corpuscles free among the red ones .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 7 .
) Fig. 9 .
Small vein from the connective tissue of a rat ( in serum ) , showing corpuscles and developed forms .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 9 .
) VII .
" On Coniferine , and its Conversion into the Aromatic Principle of Vanilla/ " By Ferd .
Tiemann and Wilh .
Haarmann .
Communicated by A. W. Hofmann , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1874 .
The sap of the cambium of coniferous trees contains a beautiful crystalline glucoside , coniferine , which was discovered by Hartig and examined some years ago by Kubel , who arrived at the formula C21H32'12 + 3aT A minute study of this compound leads us to represent the molecule of coniferine by the expression CJjo H2 ?
08 + 2aq , the percentages of which nearly coincide with the theoretical values of Kubel 's formula .
Submitted to fermentation with emulsine , coniferine splits into sugar and a splendid compound , crystallizing in prisms which fuse at 73 ' .
This body is easily soluble in ether , less so in alcohol , almost insoluble in water ; its composition is represented by the formula C"HuO , .
The change is represented by the equation CleH120 , + H,0 = 0 , HI20 , + C,0H"O , .
Under the influence of oxidizing agents the product of fermentation undergoes a remarkable metamorphosis .
On boiling it with a mixture of potassium bichromate and sulphuric acid , there passes with the vapour of water , in the first place ethylic aldehyde , and subsequently an acid compound soluble in water , from which it may be removed by ether .
On evaporating the ethereal solution , crystals in stellar groups are left behind , which fuse at 81 ' .
These crystals have the taste and odour of vanilla .
An accurate comparative examination has proved them to be idenOsier .
Trot-Hoy .
SotJol .
IXR .
PlY .
1 . .
ViaiWeslcy Sc.

