The Elastic Limits of Ivon and , etc. The modulus of decay ( t ) for waves of length 5 cms .
when the surface of the mercury is covered by 4 mm. of glycerine is 4'9 secs .
All modes become propagated for wave-lengths greater than some value between 5 and 10 cms .
Tor a depth of 1 mm. of glycerine this limit lies between 10 and 20 cms .
, and thus we see that as the depth is increased this critical value of the wavelength approaches that for waves at the surface of deep glycerine , which lies between 2 and 3 cms .
] The Elastic Limits of Iron and Steel under Cyclical Variations of Stress .
By Leonard Bairstow , A.R.C.Sc .
, Wh .
Sch .
( Communicated by Dr. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received April 20 , \#151 ; Read May 13 , 1909 .
) ( Abstract .
) An explanation of fatigue is developed in the paper which is in accordance with all the researches on the fracture of materials by the cyclical repetition of stress .
The theory was put forward by Bauschinger in 1886 , when he suggested that the necessary condition of safety was that the repeated stresses applied should be within the limits of elasticity of the specimen , and that the least variation from this condition introduces fatigue and ultimately fracture occurs .
In order for this to be true for Wohler 's well-known experiments , the elastic limits must be variable within very wide limits , and the present paper describes observations made during the adjustment of the limits of elasticity to any particular condition of experiment .
It is now found that iron or steel is capable of adjusting itself to variations of stress , cyclically applied , after a sufficient number of repetitions .
When the adjustment is complete , the specimen under test is found to have become perfectly elastic throughout the whole cycle , and fatigue does not occur .
During the adjustment of the elastic limits to a given cycle of stress , a change of length occurs in the specimen , which corresponds to the extension observed in an ordinary tensile test when the yield stress is exceeded .
For stress cyclically applied , this extension occurs even when the maximum stress in the cycle is less than the static yield stress .
VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; A. 2 K 484 Mr. L. Bairstow .
The Elastic Limits of [ Apr. 20 , The greater the extension of the specimen during adjustment , the greater is the amount by which the elastic limits are raised .
Limits can be found to this power of adjustment , and if the cycle of stress imposed exceeds these limits , the specimen becomes or remains inelastic and work is absorbed during each cycle .
This work is expended in moving portions of the crystals of the material relatively to one another and is probably associated with microscopic slip lines , which gradually develop into cracks , and ultimately cause the fracture of the specimen .
As the elastic limits of a new specimen are in suitable positions for reversals of equal and opposite stresses , and consequently do not need adjustment , fracture occurs without any appreciable extension .
The figure illustrates the relation of the yield , produced by cyclical variastress TONS SQ IN AXLE STEEL EXTENSION MILLIMETRES .
tions of stress , during adjustment of the elastic limits , to the extension in an ordinary tensile test .
The ordinates are the maximum stresses applied to the specimen and the abscissae the corresponding permanent extension .
Starting with a new specimen , the line LEA shows that , at a stress of 25 tons per square inch , no permanent extension was observed .
When the load was slightly increased , a sudden extension of about one-fifth of a millimetre occurred , this being the well-known yield .
Further increase of stress extended the specimen still further , the changes being represented by a line which cannot differ appreciably from BC .
In producing the curve FEABC , no cyclical variations of stress are concerned , and the curve is identical with the usual stress elongation diagram frequently taken during a tensile test .
1909 .
] Iron and Steel under Cyclical Variations of Stress .
485 An experiment on a specimen of axle steel showed that , under cyclical variations of stress , an extension which was not measurable at the first application of the load gradually appeared , due to repeated applications of a range of stress slightly greater than the safe range .
This extension continued for some time , any point on the line GH representing the extension at some particular time .
When the adjustment of the elastic limits was complete , H represented the final extension , and no further extension occurred due to further repetitions of stress .
The point J was similarly obtained by repeating a cycle of stress having a less maximum value than that which produced the extension H. At E , which corresponds to the maximum safe stress during reversals , no extension occurred .
The points H , J , E are evidently on a continuation of the curve BC , and when cyclical variations of stress are considered , there is no break in the curve at B corresponding to the static yield point .
Above this point the whole extension is produced by the maximum stress only , independently of the range of stress , which may be zero .
As HJE is continuous with BC , it seems possible that an extension such as GH may be produced by the repetition of a cycle of stress in which the range is less than the safe range .
Below the static yield point , iron and steel appear to be capable of maintaining their initial condition for a considerable time against cyclical variations of stress which ultimately produce a considerable change of length .
The first application of the maximum load in a given cycle of stress may show only a scarcely measurable extension , in spite of the fact that an extension two or three thousand times as great as the permanent extension in the first cycle is necessary before stability is reached .
When the extension produced by a large number of cycles is itself small , i.e. , when the maximum stress in the cycle is not greatly in excess of the natural elastic limits , it does not seem surprising that the effect of the first cycle is not measurable and that ordinary determinations of the elastic limit fail to detect changes , which nevertheless are there .

