]\gt ; Lord Rayleigh .
On the The cardiac acceler es arise in the cat from the first four five thoracic nerves ; the maximm effect is obtained sometimes from the 2nd and sometimes from the 3rd thoracic nerve ; the 1st and the 4th thoracic nerves have in some animals a considerable accelerator action , in others ]ittle or none ; the 5th nerve appears to contain a few accelerator fibres , but furthcr evidence is desirable .
Taking into account the pilo-motor fibres of the cat and dog , it is seen that cervical sympathetic arises in these animals from the tirst seven , and in the rabbit from the first eight , thoracic nerves ; .
the 1st thoracic is , however , less represented in the cervical sympathetio of rabbit than it is in that of the cat and dog .
Comparing the rabbit with the cat and dog , as regards sympathetio fibres , which are present in all , it resuIts that in the cat and dog the fibres of any one kind are higher in origin , and in some cases present in fewer spinal nerves , than they are in the rabbit .
In accord .
ance with this , the 2nd thoracic more frequently causes a movement of the fore-foot in the rabbit than in the other two animals .
On the whole , the sympai hetic fibres of any one kind appear to be slightly higher in the dog in the cat .
uppermost white ramus communicans arises from the 1st thoracic } lowest in the dog and cat arises usually , as de scribed by ] , from { he Iumbar nerve ; occasionally , however , the 5th lumbar nerve gives off a white ramus to the sympathetic .
Both in upper and lower regions of the spinal cord , there is satisfactory experimental evidence of efferent sympathetic fibres in those spinal nerves which have white rami , and in those only .
This is in agreement with the views of Gaskell .
In the grey rami , medullated fibres ogreater diameter than 4 and , perhaps , some of the smaller ones\mdash ; are probably ferent fibres , which pass to the spinal cord by the white rami .
A ison of the histological characters and of the reflex effects yielded by ious parts of the sympalhetic , by the depressor , and by the nervus erigens , affords strong evidence that a number of the meduliated fibres of larger diameter than 4 , althongh afferertt , are not fibres of general sensibility .
In the co1lrse of the paper the resuIts of previous observers given and discussed . .
" " On the tive Densities of Hydrogen and Oxy gen .
II By LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.b. Received February 5 , 1892 .
In a preliminary notice upon this subject , explained the pro ccdure by I found as the ratio of densities 15884 .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 48 , p. 356 , February , 1888 .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the individtlal experiments , would give a better result for the weights than auy I could hope to obtain directly .
In all work of this , the errors to be contended with may be classed as either systematic or casual .
The latter are eliminated by repetition , and are usually of no importance in the final mean .
It iS systernatic errors that are most to be dreaded .
But although directly of but little account , casual errors greatly embarrass a research by rendering difficult and tedious the detection of systematic errors .
Thus , in the present case , almost the only source of error that can prejudice the final result is impul'ity in the gases , especially in hydrogen .
The better the hydrogen , the lighber it will prove ; bnt the discrimination is blunted by the inevitable errors of After perhaps a week 's it may become clear that the hydrogen is a at fault , as happened in one case from penetration of nitrogen between the sealed-in platinum electrodes and the glass of the enerator .
Another difficulty , which affects the presentation of results , turns upon the one-sided character of the errors most to be feared .
As bas been said , impure hydrogen can only be too heavy , and another important source of error , depending upon imperfect establislment of equilibrium of pressure between the contents of th globe and the external atmosphere , also works one-sidedly in the direction .
The latter source of error is most to be feared immediately after a -greasing of the tap of the globe .
The superfluous grease finds its way into the perforation of the plug , and partially the passage .
so that the six minntes usually allowed for the escape of the initinl excess of pressure in the gIobe may become inadeqnate .
Partly from tttis cause and partly from incomplete washing out of nitrogen from the generator , the first filling of a set was so often found ab normally that it became a rule in all cases to reject it , From these and other causes , such as accidental leakages not discovered the time , it was difficult to secure a set of determinations in whioh mearl really represented the most probable value .
At he time , any iirbitrary rejection of individual resuIts must be avoided far as possible .
In the present work two objects have been especially kept in The first is simplicity upon the chemical side , and second the um of materials in such a form that the elimination of impurities forward in the normal working of the process .
When , as in former determinations , the hydrogen is made from zinc , any purity which that material may contain and communicate to the cannot be eliminated from the generator ; for each experimfpt spheric conditions would remain as 2 : 1 upon indefinite expansion .
ording the formula of Van der Waals , a greater change than this in the ratio of is to be expectod .
included from the first .
On the other hand , the hydrogen liberated is necessarily contaminated with oxygen , and this must be removed by copper contained in a red-hot tube .
In the to be described the generator was charged with potash , the gases liberated at platinum electrodes .
In the case of a ogen filling the oxygen blew off on one side from a mercury seal , and the other the hydrogen was eyed through hot tubes containing copper .
The bulk of the aqueous vapour was deposited in a small flask containing strong solution of potash , and the gas then over solid potash to a long tube packed with phosphoric Of this only a very short length showed signs of being aifected at the close of all operations .
With respect to impurities , other than oxygen and oxides of hydrogen , which may gas , we have the alternative .
Eithe ] ' the impurity is evolved much more rapidly than in proportion to the consumption of water in the generator , or it is not .
If the rate of evolution of the impurity , reckoned as a fraction of the quantity originally present , is not much more rapid than the correspondingly reckoned consumption of water , the presence of the impurity will be of little importance .
If on the other hand , as is probable , the rate of evolution is much more rapid than the conumption of water , the impurity is soon eliminated from the residue , and the gas sobsequently generated becomes practically pure .
limilar argument bolds good if the source of the impurity be in the pper , or even in the phosphoric ; and ib applies with inreued force when at the close of one set of operations the generator replenistled by the mele additioJl of water .
It is , however , lBumed that the atus itself is perfectly ti Except for the reversal of the electric , the action of the $pparatus is almost the same whebher oxygen or hydrogen is to be lected .
In the latter case the copper in the hot tubes is in the rednced , and in the former case in the oxidised , state .
For the sake of distiuotness we will suppose that the globe is to be filled with hydrogen .
The generator itself ( fig. 1 ) is of the -form , with unusually long bnches , and it is supplied from Grove cells with about 3 amperes electric current .
Since on one side the oxygeIr blows oif into the At suggestion of Professor , the solution was freed from carbonate , so , by the use of baryta , of which it contained a slight excess .
Lord Rayleigh .
On FIO .
1 .
air , the essure in the generator is always nearly atmospheric .
Some trouble has been caused by leakage between the platinum electrodes and the glass .
In the later experiments to be here recorded these joints were drowned with mercury .
On leaving the generator the hydrogen traverses a red-hot tube of hard glass charged with copper , $ then a flask containing a strong solntion of potash , amd afterwards a second similar hot tube .
The additional was introduced with the idea that the action of the hot copper in promoting the union of the hydrogen with its oxygen contamination might be more plete after removal of the greater part of the oxygen , in combined or in the uncombined state .
From this point onward the gas was nearly dry .
In the earlier experimsnts the junctions of hard furnace tubes with the soft glass of the remainder of the paratus were effected by fusion .
One of these joints remained in uS , but the others were replaced by india-rubber connexions drowned in mercury .
It is believed that no leakage occurred at these joints ; but as an additional security a tap was provided between generator and the furnace , and was kept closed whenever there no forward current of hydrogen .
In this way the liquid in the generator would be protected from any possible infiltration of .
Any that might find its way into the furnace tubes could easily be removed before the ncement of a filling .
Almost immediately upon leaving the furnace tubes the gas *The copper must be free from sulpbur } otherwise the contamination with sulphuretted hydrogen is somewhat persistent .
The transition from the one pressure to the other takes place at regulator , which must be so adjusted that the flo through it is approximately equal to the prodnction of gas .
At first the manipulation of the regulator was a source of trouble and required almost constant attention , but a very simple ddibion gave the desired control .
This was merely a long wooden , attached to the plug , which served both as a lever and as an indicator Underneath the pointed e1tremiby was a small table to which its motions could be refelred .
Durin the first two-thirds of a very little readjustment was needed , and the apparatus could be left for half an ljour with but little fear of displacing too much the liquid in tLegen.erator .
; the close , as the motive fell off , the tap to be opened more widely .
Sometimes the recovery of level could be more conveniently effected by insertion of resistance into the electric circuib , or by interrupting altogether for a few minutes .
Into details of this kind it is hardly necessary to go further .
From the ulator the gas passed to the desiccating tubes .
The first of these lvas charged with fragments of solid potash , and the second with a long length of ptlosphoric anbydride .
Finally , a tube stuffed with glass wool intercepted aIly suspended matter that might have been carried forward .
The connexion of the globe with the ator , with the Toppler , with the blow-off , is showu in the accompanying fig. 2 .
On the morning of a projected filling the vacuous globe vould be connected the free end of the stout-walled india-l'ubber tube , and secured by binding wire .
The generator being cut off , a high vacuum ] be made up to the tap of the globe .
After a couple of ' standing the leakage through the india-rubber and at the joints could be measured .
The amount of the leakage in the first two hours was usually negligible , considered as an addition to a glob of hydrogen , and the leakage that would occur the ) ours following would ( in the absence of accidents ) be still smaller .
If the test were , the filling would proceed as follows :\mdash ; The electric current rough the generator being established and ihe furnace being heated , any oxygen that might have percolated into drying tubes bad first to be washed out .
In order to do this more effectively , a moderate vacuum ( of pressure equal to about 1 inch of meroury ) was maintained in the tubes and up to the regulator by the action of the pump .
In this way the current of gas is made vory , and the half hour allowed must have been more than sufficient the purpose .
The generator was then temporarily cut off , and a vacuum produced in the globe connexion and in the blow-off Lord Rayleigh .
On the [ Feb. 11 FIG. 2 .
tube , which , being out of the main current of gas , might'oe supposed to harbour impurities .
After this the pump would be cut off , the connexion with the generator -established , and , finally , the tap of the globe cautiously opened .
The operation of filling usually occupied from two to three hours .
When the gas began to blow off under an excess of pressure repre ented by about half an inch of mel.cury , the blow-oif cistern lowered so as to leave the extremity of the tube free .
For two minutes the current of gas from the generator was allowed to flow through , after which the generator was cut off , and the globe left simple communication with the atmosphere , until it was upposed that equilibrium of pressure had been suffic.iently established .
Doubts have at various times been felt as to 1 , interval required for purpose .
If too little time is allowed , there will remain an excess of pressure in the globe , and the calculated weight of the filling will out too high .
On the other hand , an undue prolongation of time might lead to a diffusion of air back into the globs .
In a speclal experiment no abnormal weight lvas detected after half all communication , so that the danger on this side appeared to be small When the passages through the taps were free from grease , one Relative Densities of Hydrogen and two minutes sufficed for the establishment of equilibrium , but thers was always a possibility of a partial obstruction .
In the results to be presently given four minutes were allowed after the separation from the generator .
It may be remarked that a part of any minute error that may arise from this source will be ] iminated in the comparisoll with oxygen , which was collected uncler like conditions .
The reading of the barometers and thermometers at the moment when the tap of the was turned off took place as described i11 the former paper .
The for the weighings were also the same .
In the evacnabions the process was always continued until , as tested by the gauge of the after at eaSt a quarter of hour 's , the residue could be neglected .
Here , again , minute error would be eliminated in the comparison of the gases .
In the case of oxygen , the errors to contamination ( even hydrogen ) are much diminished , and similar errors of tell very much less upon the proportional reement of the final numbers .
A comparison of the actual results with the two kinds gas does ot , however , show so great an on the side of the oxygen as have been expected .
The inference appears to be that the results are largely affected by temperature errors .
Two thermometers were , indeed , used ( on : sides ) within the woodeu box by which the globe is surl.ounded , and they could easily be read to within C. But in otherJ'espects , the circumstances were unfavourable in consequence of the presence the same room of the furnace necessary to heat copper .
An error of C. in the temperature leads to a discrepancy of 1 part in 1500 in the final numbers .
Some further elaboration of screening acbu employed would been an improvement , but inasmuch as the tanCt S precisely same for the two gases , no systematic error can here arise .
The thermometers were , of course , the same in the two cases .
The experiments are grouped in five , two for oxygen and three for hydrogen .
In each set the work was usually continued until the tap of the globe required -greasing , or until , .
to a breakage or to some other accident , operations had to be suspended .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the [ Fek Oxygen .
The six fillings were all independent , except that of July 6 , when the bulk of bhe oxygen remaining from the previous filling was not removed .
so happens that this case shows the greatest discrepancy , but there seems to be no sufficient reason for rejecting it .
Hydrogen .
Hydrogen .
Densities of Hydrogen and ogen .
Oxygen .
In almost every case the weight of the globe full is compared with the mean of the immediately preceding and following weights The numbers recorded in the second column are derived from the readings of the by the introduction of corrections\mdash ; ( 1 .
) the errors of the weights themselves , found by a systematic compariso1l , only relative values uncorrected for buoyancy being required .
( 2 .
) For bhe deviation of the mean* reading at the time of filling from 30 inches ( as read upon the vernier ) .
( 3 .
) For the deviation of the temperature of the barometers ( Column 3 ) from F. ( 4 .
) For the deviation of the temperature of the gas ( as read upon the thermometers ) from C. Asanexample'lito will take in detail calculation for the hydro-e gert filling of October 26 .
After the evacuation of Octol ) , the globe ( 14 ) with its compensating volume piece and *There were two barometers .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the [ Feb. 0.4/ 78 gram stood on the left of the balance with giobe ( 11 ) on the right .
The position of ] ibrium of the pointer , as determined fter f different releasements , each observed in the usual manner , was 1902 scale divisions .
In like manner , after the evacuation of October 27 , with the same weights in use , the equilibrium position of the pointer was .
After the filling of October 26 , the weights ociated with ( 14 ) were gram , iustead of and the reading was .
So far as the weights are concerned , the of the hydrogen would be , or gram ; but to this we must add a correction corresponding to scale divisions , being the difference between and .
At the time iu question , the value of a scale division was gram , so that obtain\mdash ; The particular weights in use on this occasion were such that no is necessary in order to allow for their errors .
The mean barometer reading at the time of filling was , so that the factor required on this account is 30 : .
The correction for temperatnre of gas is to For barometer . . . . . .
For temperature . . . .
To this a correction for the temperature of the barometer has still to be applied .
For F. the correctiog factor is , or for F. .
From we are thus to subtract , giving the ) number A minnte tion to the mean of each set may be made for the tempel.ature of the glass .
A warm globe is larger than a cold one , and consequently holds more gas .
If we stlppose that the volume expansion of tho glass per degree C. is , we find , corrected to C.\mdash ; Hydrogen .
* Relative Densities of Hydrogen and gen .
xygen .
The means here exriibited give the crhts of the two gases as they would be found with the globe at C. , and the barometers at and at 30 inches .
The close reement of the mean temperatures for the two gases shows how little room there is for systematic error dependent upon tions in the rometers and thermometers .
But the lesults still require tuodification befol.e they can be compared with the view of deducing the relati densities of the g In the place , there is a systematic , thou ' minute , difference in the pressures bitherto considered as .
The terminaI of the blow-off tube is inches below the centre of the globe the time of filling .
In the one case this is occupied by , and in the olher by ) gen .
If we treat the latter as the stalldard , we mnst regard the hydrogen fillings as taking place unde of presequal to of the of a column of oxygen.3 : ; inches high ; and this must be compared with 30 inches of .
Hence , if we take the .
of oxygen under atmospheric conditions at and that of mercury at , the excess of pressure under which the hydrogen was collected is as a fraction of the whole pressure ; and .
Tbis , then , is what we must tract from the weight of on account of the diiference of pressures due to the gas in the blow-off tube .
Thus [ These numbers are not quite comparable with those glven tne former communication , inasmuch as standard temperature then uaed for the barometers F. Reduced so as to corraspond to , the former numbers become 460 Lord Rayleigh .
On the [ Feb. The agreement is satisfactory , especially when it is remembered that both ) were prepared by different methods in the two sets of experiments .
But there is still another and a more important correction to introduced .
In my former paper it was shown that when the weigh .
ings are conducted in air the true weight of the gas contained in tho globe is not given by merely subtracting the weight of the globe when empty from the weight when full .
When the globe is empty , its external volume is less than when fnll , and order to obhin tlIe true weight , the apparent weight of the gas must be increased by the weight of air whose volume is equal to the change of volume of the globe .
In order to determine the amount of this change of volume , the globe is filled to the neck with recently boiled distilled water , and the eflect is observed upon the level in the stem due to a suction of , say , 20 inches of mercury .
It is not advisable to carry the exhaustion much further for fear of approaching too nearly the point at which bubbles of vapour may be formed internally .
In the earlier experiments , described in the preliminary nobe , the upper surface of the liquid was in the stem of the be itself ( below the tap ) , and the only difficulty lay in the accurate estimation of a change of voInme occut.ring in a wide and somewhat tube .
The method employed was to produce , by introduction of a weighed quantity of mercury , a rise of level equal to that caused by the suction .
The advantage of this procedure la , in the avoidance of joiuts and of the tap itself , but , for the reasons given , the readings were not quite so accurate as might be desired .
I wished , therefore , to supplement , if possible , the former determination by one in which the change of volume oocurred in a tube narrower of better shape .
With this object in view , the stem of the globe was prolonged by a graduated tubular pipette attached with the aid of indiarubber .
The tubes themselves were treated with gutba-percha cemen and brought into contact .
It had hardly been expected the joint wonld prove unyielding under the applied suction , but it was c.onsidered that the amount of the could be estimated and allowed for by operations conducted with tap closed .
The event , however , proved that the yielding at ths joint was scarcely , if at all , perceptible .
The pipette , of bore such that 16 cm .
corresponded to 1 , was graduated to , and was read by estimation to .
In the better to eliminate the changes due to temperature , readinga under atmospheric pressnre , and under a suction of 20 inches of curv , were alternated .
On January 28 , 1892 , a first set gave , a seoond gave and a third \amp ; , The result of the day 's experiments was thus for 20 inches , or for 30 inches , suction .
Similar experiments on January 28 , a different part of the graduation , gave .
On this day the yi , lding with tap closed was just visible , and was estimated at As a mean resuIt , we may adopt .
The graduation of pipette was subsequently verified by weighing a thread of mercury that occupied a measured length .
A part of the lred volume is to the expansion the water when the pressure is relieved .
We may tako this at of the volume per atmosphere .
The volume itself may be derived with sufficient accuracy for the present purpose from weight of its colltents .
It is , or 1837 c.c. The expansion of the water per atmosphere is thus , or c.c. This is to be subtracted from , and leaves This number strictly to the volume enclosed within the glass , but the change in the external volume of the globe will be almost same .
The now under consideration is thus the weight of air at the of the balance room .
The density of this air may be estimated at ; so that the weight of .
is gram .
This is the quanvity which must be added to the apparent weights of the gases .
The estimate was gram .
The finally corrected weights thus ; and for the ratio of densities we have This corresponds to a mean atmospberic condition of pressure and temperature .
If we combine the above ratio of densities with Professor Morley 's ratio of volumes , , we get , as the ratio of atomic weights , If we refer to the table , we see that the agreement of the first and * For greater security the tap was turned while the interior was under suctio ] ] .
For a spherical shell of glass of uniform ickness and with elastic coustal ) following Poisson 's law , the ratio of differencs of internal and externul expansion to either of them is 4 is the thickness of the shell , and the mean radius .
In the present application the value of , deduced ured circumference and from the weight of glass , is bout 1 [ Perhaps an arrangement in which the external volume is directly } would have been preferable .
No allow for expausion of water would then be noeded .
Relative Densities of and Oxygen .
third series of hydrogen weighings is very good , but that the mean from the second series is decidedly lighter .
This may have been in part fortuitous , but it is scarcely probable that it was so altogetber .
Under the circumstances we can hardly reckon accuracy of the final results as closer than A word should perhaps be said upon a possible source of systematie error , , mercury vapour .
Tbere is no doubt that ogen over mercury takes up enough to cause a slow and superficial , but quite distinct , discoloration of sulpbur over which it subsequently .
In the experiments here recorded , the gas did not , indeed , flow over mercury in mass , but , illasmuch as mercury was used to cure the tightness of some of the , it is difficult to feel sure of its absence .
Again , in evacuatious condncted with a mercury pump can the vacu n1 be regarded as free from mercury vapour , which , it must be remembered , would not show ] upon the gauge of the Toppler P If both the hydrogen and the " " vacnum\ldquo ; were saturated with mercury vapour , the result of the weighings would , according to Dalton 's law , be free from its influence .
The same.may be said of any volatile impurity arising from the grease*upon the stopcocks .
As the matter stands , the results must , I think , be regarded as affected with a possible error amounting to a fraction of the weight of mercury pour at the temperatures employed .
But this is probably a very all quantity .
According to Hertz , the vapour-pr9ssure of mercul.y at would be about mm. If this be correct , the weight of mercury vapour in an atmosphere of hydrogen would be as a fraction of the latter It appeaxs that in an investigation of hydrogen aiming at an accuracy of 1/ 10,000 the question of mercury vapour requires very careful consideration .
The table of results found by various may be useful for comparison : \mdash ; In conclusion , I must express my obligations to Mr. Gordon , has assisted me throughout .
The work has been unusually tedious , partly from its inherent nature , requiring as it does a certainty of in the weighings , and still more from the constant liability to accidents , which may render nugatory a large amount of preparatory work .
Presents , , 1892 .
Transactions .
Basel : hende G. Verhandlungen .
Bd .
IX .
Heft 2 . .
Basel 1891 .
The Society .
Cambridge :Philosophical Society .
Transactions .
Vol. Part 2 . .
Cambridge 1891 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass .
:\mdash ; Harvard College .
Mnseum of iv Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. XXII .
No. 3 . .
Cambriclge 1892 .
The Museum .
Harvard University .
Bulletin .
Vol. .
No. 7 . .
Cambridge 1892 .
The oniversity .
Cherbourg :Soci Nationale des Sciences Naturelles et Mathe1natiques .
Memoires .
Tome XXVII .
rbourg 1 The Dijon : des Sciences , Arts et Belles-Lettres .
MeInoires .
Ser. 4 .
Tome II . .
Dijon 1891 .
The Academy .
astbourne :\mdash ; Natural History Society .
Transactions .
Vol. II .
Part 5 . .
Eastbourne [ 1892 ] .
The Sociely .
, \mdash ; Royal Society .
Transactions .
Vol. XXXVI .
Part 2 . .
Edinburgh 1891 .
The Society .
Glasgow:\mdash ; Philosopbical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. XXII . .
The Society .

