XVI .
" On the Constitution of Coal-tar Creosote .
" By Professor WILLIAMSON .
Comml unicated by Dr. SHABPEY , Sec. R.S. Received June 15 , 1854 .
For some years past it has been a debated question among chemists , whether the peculiar body originally described by Reichenbach as creosote , and subsequently analysed by Ettling and others , has any real existence , or whether the properties which were attributed to it are not to be more correctly ascribed to the hydrate of phenyl , which can be obtained in a state of great purity from at least one sort of commercial creosote by mere distillation , and which possesses in an eminent degree the antiseptic properties for which creosote is remarkable .
With a view of obtaining some light on this question , Mr. Fairlie undertook , in the laboratory of University College , an investigation of the portions of coal-tar creosote which boil higher than the hydrate of phenyl .
The result of his experiments has been to show that a body homologous to hydrate of phenyl may be obtained from the crude creosote , in fact the next term of the series above hydrate of phenyl itself .
Some qualities of commercial creosote contain a greater quantity of this hydrate of cresyl ( as it may be termed ) than others ; and it is most advantageously prepared from those portions which in the first distillation come over between 200 ?
Cent. and 220 ? .
After a great number of fractional distillations , a colourless , highly dispersive liquid is obtained , boiling at 203 ?
Cent. , and possessing the composition represented by the formula C14H82 , .
This hydrate of cresyl resembles the corresponding phenyl compound in most of its properties ; but it may be easily distinguished from that compound by its almost complete insolubility in aqueous ammonia .
When gradually mixed with sulphuric acid , it becomes of a beautiful rose-colour , and gives rise to sulpho-cresylic acid .
The action of nitric acid upon hydrate of cresyl is very violent , and almost explosive if the acid is used in a concentrated state and at so high a temperature as the common atmospheric ; even very dilute nitric acid transforms the compound into a brown tarry mass from which no defillite substance can be extracted .
By cooling some nitric acid in a frigorific mixture and allowing some similarly cooled hydrate to fall into it drop by drop and with constant agitatiorin , a red-coloured solution was obtained , which by dilution with water and subsequent neutralization by potash yielded a crop of short needle-shaped crystals of an orange-red colour , and possessing a greater solubility in water than the salt of carbazotic acid .
This salt was found by analysis to possess the composition of a homologue of carbazotate of potash ; so that it is the potash salt of a hydrate of cresyl in which three atoms of hydrogen are replaced by hyponitric acid , H4 Cr14 47O , KO .
( NO4)3 The same acid was obtained by the action of nitric acid upon an alcoholic solution of the hydrate containing urea ; but in attempting to repeat this experiment on a larger scale the mixture became hot , and the whole of the substance was destroyed with almost explosive violence .
When treated with pentachloride of phosphorus this hydrate of cresyl is decomposed in like manner with the hydrate of phenyl , as described by Mr. Scrugham , yielding a chloride of cresyl and a phosphate of the same radical .
By the action of this phosphate in an alcoholic solution of acetate of potash , a peculiar oleaginous body is obtained possessing an odour entirely different from that of the hydrate , and decomposable by potash with production of acetate and cresylate .
A similar reaction ensues when the phosphate is distilled with ethylate of potash , and a cresylate of ethyl is thus obtained .
In the numerous distillations which were performed for the purification of the hydrate of cresyl , some circumstances were observed which led to a suspicion that the body undergoes a change of composition , either through the distillation itself , or by some in .
fluences accompanying it .
These circumstances were , -lst .
A tarry residue , from a liquid which when introduced into the retort was perfectly colourless .
2nd .
The formation of a small quantity of water in the commencement of such a distillation , though none was contained in the substance used .
3rd .
The gradual lowering of the boiling-point of the whole liquid by a great number of distillations .
These facts , taken in conjunction , naturally suggested that the oxygen of the air contained in the retort might act upon the substance , and thus gradually reduce it to hydrate of phenyl .
In order to test the correctness of this hypothesis , the atmospheric air was expelled from the distilling apparatus by dry hydrogen gas , and the distillation performed in a pure atmosphere of this gas .
A great number of distillations performed in this manner were at exactly the same temperature , and all the other anomalies were simultaneously removed .
It was however found that the liquid always boiled at a lower temperature in hydrogen than in atmospheric air , the difference being about 2 ?
Cent. , and this without any alteration of the pressure on the surface of the boiling liquid .
A similar fact was noticed in the distillation of hydrate of phenyl , and also of some other liquids .

