]\gt ; Prof H. M. cdollald .
Transmission of If th distribution of normal velocity over the disk be velocity-potential on the positive side ( ) , ( 84 ) where denotes distance from tho plane of the disk .
anding J , and writing , we find ( ) ( 85 ) .
( 81 ) Hcncc , putting in ( 84 ) we have the fornluh ( 14 ) .
nsmission oVcxves around the By H. M. MACDONALD , ( Reoeived August 16 , 1920 .
) 1 a previous the law of decrease of the amplitude of the magnetic force of a train of electric waves emitted from a simple oscillator at the surface of a perfectly conducting sphere as the distance of the receiver ( also on the surface ) from the oscillator increases was investigated , and in a later communicationS the effect of imperfect conduction was discussed .
The method adopted consisted ( 1 ) in showing that the terms of the series for which contributed the principal part of were those for which 'Hydrodynamics , ' 1916 , p. 130 .
Nielsen , ' Theory der Cylinderfunktionen , ' p. 193 , or Schafheitlein , ' Theory der Bessel'schen ktionen , ' p. 76 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 , ( 1914 ) .
S .
Soc. Proc , vol. 92 , p. 493 ( 1916 ) .
Electric around the is of the same or order than in showing that the corresponding part of the series for can be replaced by the series , where , ( th ltCion extends from value of for which ) is of the same order to some value of for which is of the same order as in expressing as a sum of partial fractions of the form , hich is possible since and are both integral functions of and , as is shown , the zeros of are sinlple zeros ; ( 4 ) in obtaining the principal part of the sn of .
the series by replacing the sum with regard to by an integral , as this ives the snnl of the parts of the terms which are oscillating most ( 5 ) in that the effect of the telms in the original series for for which is of higher order than is negligible in comparison with the principal part thus obtained .
The result that the decrease of amplitude with increase of distance from the oscillator was of a maguitude yhich made the amplitude practically inaensible for the wave-lengths in use in wireless telegraphy at distances on the earth 's surface from the oscillator greater than those for which the approximation used in the analysis Legendre 's function , viz. , is a sufficient ) oxiInation .
As will appear later t , he appropriate expressions for the netic and electric at any point on the surface can be obtained by the same methods as in the previous investigations , but it may be observed that the expressions at a great distance from the oscillator are not of practical interest .
The problem of the transmission of electlic waves on the earth 's surface has been discussed by Prof. G. N. Wabsou , the method adopted by him being to replace the series by a sum of residues by means of a contour integral .
The discussion of this sum of residnefi oceeds on the assumption that it can be arranged as a simple series , but the treatment would appear to be inadequate .
It may be pointed out that the existence of zeros of a function cannot be onstrated by the use of an asymptotic expression , as all that could be proved in this way is that the value of the modulus of the function decreases to a value less than son given value , not that it actually vanishes .
* This also follows from a previous investigation , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 72 , p. 69 ( 1904 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 96 , p. 83 ( 1918 ) .
replacement of a series in this manner appears to be originally due to Cauchy , and has been used by other writers , but it may be observed that the sum which replaces the series is in general less amenable to treatment than the original seriss .
Prof. H. M. Macdonald .
The smission of Further , the discussion of the relative importance of the different residues would appear to be incomplete as it is confined to the cases where is very large or is of the same or lower order than , while the series indicates that in general singularities of the integrand other than those for which is of the same or lower order than are effectiye , and these are not dealt with .
The expressions for the magnetic force at points on the surface of the sphere at a distance from the oscillator can be obtained by substituting the appropriate approximations for the Legendre functions then summing the series as in the previous investigation or effecting the summation by the same method before the approximations are substituted .
It is known* that if the sum can be written where is unimportant compared with the integral when oscillates slowly with , whence it follows that the principal part of the sum of a converging series of this kind is ) iven by the integral when the first term of the series can be ected .
This is the result used in the previous investigation .
An expression as a series of rals can be obtained which gives in the form , ( 1 ) a result which can be readily verified and which makes it possible to select the principal part of the sum of any number of terms of a series .
The series for the important part of is , and the part from any one of the partial fractions whose sum expresses such as admits of being summed completely , but to secure that terlns which are not of the same order as the sum of the terms of the original series for which is of higher order than are not included , the method of summation adopted should be one which can also be applied to those terms .
Applying the formula 1 ) to the series for , since the first term of the series 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 210 , pp. 132 , 133 ( 1909 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 , p. 55 ( 1914 ) .
Etectric around the can be neglected and the series converges , the principal part of is given by the first when is not near to , and then for that is , substituting Heine 's expression for , which is given ( -01 ) , the above expression ecomes Now , as was proved in the previous mvestigation , all the poles of are in the lower half of the plane , , herefore , since tends to zero at an infinite distance in the upper half of the plane , when is not near to or , the part of the that depends on vanishes , and that is or , since tends to at iJlfiniGe distance in the lower half of the plane , and where therefore , ( 2 ) when is not When small quantity , can be replaced by , and the expression for becomes Prof. H. M. Macdonald .
The Transrnission of or substituting the asymptotic ) for and , .
the principal parts only ( 3 ) The precedin , is identical with thot the previous tioexcept that } ) ) nation f fun ction has substituted after the sumnnation has been effected , and the result is same .
When is not smsll , the appropriate approximation for is iven by the expression for becomes Sll ( 4 ) It is readily verified that , for the ] of , for which the ratio is sensible for the in use in wireless telegraphy , the difference between the expressions ( 3 ) is insensible .
As approaches rate of oscillation of the terms in the series increases and approaches .
that of , and the appropriate for is , where If , in the series for , the formula ( 1 ) becomes that is or and the principal part of the sum of the series , when is oscillatin , slowly with , and the first and last terms can be neglected , is * .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 , p. 56 ( 1914 ) .
The necessary comparison was made when the previous paper was written , but the result appeared to be sufficiently obvious without ting out the analysis .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 210 , p. 120 ) .
Electric Waves around the Earth Hence , when is } ) oach 1 , the part of is given by now and both to zero at infi n ( in th ) half of the Again / ' 1oot , h tend to at an infinite distance in the lower half of the plane , therefore When is not small this becomes si When is small , the expression for becomes , after substitution of the appropriate approximations for the spherical almonics in term m , s of functions , siu sill\ldquo ; .
1 ] , that is ( 6 ) As in the previous investigation , can be shown that the inclusion of .
cit. , ) 222 nsmission of Electric around the Earth 's terms for which is of results ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) .
As vanishes when , whereas the electric force normal to the surface does not vanish , it is convenient to obtain the value of when is equal to or in the hbourhood of .
Now whence the principal part of is given by that is ' ( 7 ) When , that is when , this becomes and the important part of this is which , for the wave-lengths in use in wireless telegraphy , is insensible .
Formula ( 7 ) , in the neighbourhood of , can be treated on similar lines to the corresponding formula for the bright point in the shadow behind object .
It should be observed that , in the above method , there is no special difficulty connected with the point The formula ( 3 ) represents the effect for all distances at which the effect is sensible for the wave-lengths in use , and , as was shown in the former investigation , tends to the value as the oscillator is approached ; the formula ( 4 ) represents the effect for greater distances , un til the angular distance is , when the appropriate formula is ( 5 ) , when is not small , and ( 6 ) when is small .
Formula ( 7 ) ives the electric force at the point and in the neighbourhood .

