266 Note on the Nature of Growths in Colloidal Silica Solutions .
By H. Onslow , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor F. G. Hopkins , F.R.S. Received March 7 , 1918 .
) The late Dr. Charlton Bastian , * * * S after having performed a number of experiments , claimed to have synthesised certain symmetrical bodies resembling torulse and other minute organisms , from sterilised colloidal solutions which had been exposed for a long period to the light .
Further , he claimed that such " organisms " were capable of reproducing themselves .
In spite of the inherent improbability of these results , Dr. Bastian was so insistent in his claims , and so anxious for independent investigation , that I undertook to repeat his experiments carefully , in order to ascertain whether the organised bodies in question were in reality living protoplasm .
The difficulty of proving a negative is obvious , but it is hoped that the following experiments , taken in conjunction with recent workf in the same field , may help to decide whether the forms observed by Dr. Bastian were , as \ I now believe , colloidal simulacra , or no. The existence of living organisms can be most conclusively proved by subcultivation in media that have previously been shown to be sterile .
The procedure adopted was therefore based on this principle .
The media used consisted of : ( 1 ) Dr. Bastian 's neutral ammonium tartrate and sodium phosphate solution ; J ( 2 ) ordinary sterile nutrient broth ; and ( 3 ) " tryptic broth , " a special medium recently described by S. W. Cole and the author .
S This medium is prepared from*a solution of casein digested with trypsin , and was adopted after Dr. Bastian had stated|| that the addition of a trace of tyrosine greatly increased the number and the rate of growth of the organisms , as well as the positive results .
" Tryptic broth " contains not only a considerable amount of tyrosine , but of other amino-acids as well , and is therefore particularly favourable to the growth of microorganisms .
A series of 90 tubes was prepared , using three different samples of * ' The Origin of Life , etc. , ' by H. Charlton Bastian , F.R.S. t B. Moore and J. A. Webster , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B 593 , p. 163 ( October , 1913 ) ; B. Moore , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B 609 , p. 27 ( July , 1915 ) .
X ' The Origin of Life ' ( 2nd edit .
) , by Dr. Charlton Bastian , p- 40 .
S 'Lancet , ' July 1 , 1916 .
H 'Nature , ' p. 537 , July 15 , 1915 .
On the Nature of Growths in Colloidal Silica Solutio7is .
267 sodium silicate .
Since there is some doubt as to the stability of solutions of this substance , precautions were always taken to prepare them from the stock samples immediately before use .
The tubes employed* were the same as those made for Dr. Bastian .
They came sealed , but were always heated before use for an hour at 200 ' C. When cool the tips were broken off , and the tubes half filled with the appropriate solutions .
After re-sealing they were sterilised either for ( 1 ) 10 minutes at various temperatures between 110 ' and 130 ' C. , or ( 2 ) 60 minutes at 100 ' C. , or ( 3 ) 20 minutes at 100 ' C. , on three successive days .
Sterilisation was carried out either in the autoclave , or , following the method employed by Dr. Bastian , in a calcium chloride bath .
After sterilisation they had the colour and appearance described by Dr. Bastian , and no doubt contained solutions of ferric and silicic oxides .
The tubes were usually kept in the incubator at 37 ' C. for at least one month , and then in subdued daylight for various periods up to three years , before examination .
This was carried out by the microscopical observation of the centrifugalised deposits with a ^ inch objective and by sub-cultivation .
To avoid accidental contamination , a square tent was made by hanging up cloths steeped in 2-per-cent , lysol , within which all subsequent operations were carried out .
As an additional precaution , the air was sometimes sprayed by means of a steam atomiser , charged with 4-per-cent , lysol , to remove particles of dust , etc. Sterilised pipettes , which had been inserted through the plugs of test-tubes , were prepared , as well as tubes of sterile " tryptic broth .
" The tubes containing the experimental solutions were thoroughly shaken , to remove any particles adhering to the walls , centrifuged , and allowed to stand for a day or two .
Their necks were then ringed with a glass-cutting knife , and , after all the tubes , as well as the hands , bench , etc. , had been moistened with lysol , their necks were removed by means of a white-hot point of glass .
Most of the precipitate , and about 2 c.c. of fluid , were then removed to the culture medium by means of a fresh sterile pipette , care being taken to flame the mouths of both tubes .
The broth tubes were first incubated for 10-14 days at room temperature , and then for an equivalent period at 37 ' C. The solutions were made according to Dr. Bastian 's directions.^ The " colourless " solution contained : ammonium phosphate , 6 grains ; dilute phosphoric acid , B.P. , 6 drops ; sodium silicate ( dilute ) , 2-10 drops .
The " yellow " solution contained , in addition to the above , eight drops of liquor ferri pernitratis , B.P. Since Dr. Bastian attached the utmost importance to the particular sample of silica used , I employed the three following :\#151 ; * Procured from Muller , Orme and Co. , 148 , High Holborn , London , W.C. t 'Origin of Life , ' by Dr. Charlton Bastian , pp. 30 and 90-91 .
Mr. H. Onslow .
Note on the Nature of Sample L____Bought ( 1913 ) from Allen and Han bury , reserved for Dr. Bastian since 1910 , and recommended by him ( " Origin of Life , " p. 29 , 2nd Ed. , 1912 ) .
Sample II.\#151 ; O'Ol per cent , colloidal solution , specially prepared by Grubler , Leipsic , in 1910 , and used immediately .
Sample III.\#151 ; Sp. gr. 75 ' .
Bought ( 1914 ) from Allen and Hanbury and recommended by Dr. Bastian.* In a private letter Dr. Bastian recommended three drops of this last sample for the " colourless solution " and five drops for the " yellow solution .
" In a later article , however , f he said that it was not satisfactory in the quantities previously mentioned , but successful in larger quantities and with other reagents .
The amount of Samples I and III used in my experiments was from 2 to 5 drops of a solution consisting of equal volumes of sodium silicate and distilled water , and of Sample II from 10 to 12 drops .
The results obtained with all the 10 sets of tubes prepared may be illustrated by the three following examples:\#151 ; Series .
No. of tubes .
Contents .
Sterilisation .
Period exposed to the light , in months .
No. of tubes .
Remarks .
A 10 " Yellow 10 minutes at 44 3 A few dead bacilli were solution , " 130 ' C. 30 7 found in some tubes , Sample I , and in others there were 3 drops .
V numerous oval bodies j about the size and appearance of torulse .
B ' 10 " Yellow 10 minutes at 24 2 In one tube alone living solution , " 110 ' C. 35 4 bacilli were f ound .
They Sample I , Lost 4 caused a thick pellicle on 2 drops .
broth , grew in chains , and resembled _Z ? .
subtilis .
Easily subcultivated on all media .
H 10 " Colourless 20 minutes at 18f 1 A few dead bacilli were solution , " 100 ' C. on 26 1 found with square ends .
Sample II , 3 successive 334 8 It was impossible to sub12 drops .
days .
cultivate them on any of the three media used .
It will be noticed that a square-ended bacillus , somewhat like in appearance , was on several occasions found in the tubes , but in every tube but one ( from Series B ' ) they were dead and incapable of being sub-cultivated .
I am well acquainted with the morphology of this organism and with some * 'Nature , ' January 22 , 1914 .
t Ibid. , December 24 , 1914 .
On the Nature of Growths in Colloidal Silica Solutions .
269 of its cultural characteristics , as it exists abundantly in my laboratory and is a frequent source of contamination .
In one tube only was this organism found alive , that is to say , capable of sub-cultivation .
As a matter of fact this tube was opened soon after it had been sterilised , together with one or two others from each set to serve as controls in the event of any positive results occurring , and unfortunately without the stringent precautions used in the case of the other tubes .
There can be no doubt that the presence of the organism was attributable to contamination from the air during sub-cultivation , as the tube had only been exposed to the light two months , and therefore could not have grown even in the way described by Dr. Bastian .
The dead bacilli of similar appearance found in a few other cases may be accounted for by their unavoidable introduction into the tubes before sterilisation .
In many of the films spread directly from the precipitates more or less circular bodies were to be seen , which roughly suggested torulse .
In one tube ( Series A ) they were especially regular and life-like , but in other tubes they varied in size and shape from specimens which were indistinguishable from torulse to those which were obviously irregular plates of silica , which readily stain in the usual way .
I am convinced that the method employed yields tubes which are absolutely sterile even after three years have elapsed .
I am , therefore , forced to the conclusion that the bodies found by Dr. Bastian , which often resembled living organisms in a striking fashion , are due to the slow deposition of silica from the colloidal solutions , either about minute nuclei or about the detritus of dead organisms , in the manner described by Profs .
Moore and Evans , * and also by Sydney G- .
Pain .f The only living organism which occurred in my experiments must , therefore , have been introduced accidentally owing to the lack of sufficient precautions .
For when great care was taken to avoid contamination the tubes were found to be uniformly sterile .
I am at a loss to account for the results of A. and A. Mary{ ( whose original communication I have been unable to consult owing to present circumstances ) , unless they also are due to accidental contamination .
In conclusion I would like to say that Dr. Bastian was at all times most courteous and kind in giving me information , as well as in allowing me to see his slides .
I am also greatly indebted to Prof. F. G. Hopkins for kindly revising this paper .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 89 , p. 17 ( 1915 ) .
t 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 30 , No. 119 , p. 383 ( July , 1916 ) .
t * Le M6decin , ' Brussels , October 31\#187 ; 1913 , and January 15 , 1914 ; ' Knowledge , ' January-September , 1917 , p. 7 .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; B. Z

