121 1881 .
] On certain points in the Anatomy of Chiton .
and at last to red-brown , the colour of oxide ; it loses in average 8 to 9 per cent , sulphuric acid with combined water .
When dissolved in boiling hydrochloric acid a snow-white residuum is obtained , which , nnder the microscope , proves to be composed of extremely well-preserved shells of microscopic Radiolaria , belonging to different genera .
The size of those mostly regular globular bodies ranges between 0-045 millim. and 0-1135 millim. The quantity of this residuum amounts in a mean of three trials to 25 per cent. The quantity of soluble substance is therefore 73 per cent. , if we take away 2 per cent , hygroscopic water .
This soluble substance is pure sulphate of oxide of iron with a very small amount of sulphate of alumina .
The quantity of the sulphuric acid in the mineral was directly determined by precipitation of the hydrochloric solution of the mineral with chloride of barium .
2,000 mgrms .
of the mineral gave 1,250 mgrms .
sulphate of baryta , corresponding to 431 mgrms .
sulphuric acid .
The amount of this acid in the mineral is therefore 215 per cent. The quantity of the oxide with a small amount of alumina is 51 o pei cent. , corresponding to 36 per cent , metallic iron .
No traces of copper or any other metal have been found in the mineral ; a trace of arsenic , however , is observed , as is shown by means of the copper-arsenic test , by boiling the hydrochloric solution with a clean copper slip , which becomes coated with a thin deposit of metallic arsenic .
Cyprusit is composed as follows:\#151 ; Oxide of iron , with a very small amount of alumina 51 " 5 Sulphuric acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 21*5 Insoluble siliceous substance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 25 Hygroscopic water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 100-0 .
Y. " On certain points in the Anatomy of Chiton .
' By Adam Sedgwick , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by F. Maitland Balfodr , F.R.S. Received November 5 , 1881 .
An account of the structure of the kidney of Chiton has long been a want in morphology .
Middendorff , * in 1848 , described a branched gland lying ventrally on each side of the body cavity which he identified as kidney ; but he records no observation on the structure of the objects belonging to natural history derived from Cyprus I add a new one ; the mineral would bear the name " Cyprusit .
" # " Memoires de l'Acad .
de St. Petersbourg , " 6th ser. , vol. vi .
K 2 122 Mr. A. Sedgwick .
[ Dec. 8 , gland , and expressly states that he was not able to make ont its opening or relation to other organs .
Schiff , # ten years later , was unable to find this gland in Chiton piceus , and throws doubt on Mid-dendorff 's interpretation of its function .
Von Jehringf has comparatively recently recorded some observations on the kidney of Chiton , and starts from the position that no kidney is known in Chiton , Middendorfp 's view as to the nature of the branched gland having been sufficiently refuted by SchifE 's later observations .
Von Jehring states that in the species of Chiton observed by him , the kidney consists of a branched gland lying ventral to the rectum in the hinder part of the body cavity , and that it opens by a single median pore ventral to the anus .
He further figures this opening .
While staying at Herm this summer I found a fair number of a good-sized species of Chiton\#151 ; Chiton discrepans ; and the results which I have obtained from the study of the anatomy of this form , especially those which concern the kidney , seem to me sufficiently important for immediate publication .
In the first place , I may mention that I have seen nothing in any of my dissections or sections which in the least supports von Jehring 's statements as to the existence of a median renal duct and opening ; and that my observations are entirely opposed to the conclusion arrived at by this investigator as to the unpaired nature of the kidney of Chiton .
On the contrary , MiddendorfPs observations , so far as they went , were perfectly correct .
The paired lateral branched gland described by the latter observer is part of the kidney .
The kidney of Chiton is a paired gland with paired openings into the pallial groove and into the pericardium , and is constructed on the type always found in molluscan renal organs ( fig. 1 ) .
It opens in the species I have chiefly examined ( discrepans ) into the pallial groove ( fig. 1 , r.o. ) internal to , but on a level with the last gill ( 16 ) .
The duct runs from the opening round the outside border of the pallial nerve ( fig. 2 , r.o. ) , and then passes inwards to open into a bladder-like structure placed in the body cavity ( fig. 1 , D , and fig. 2 , D ) .
This bladder-like structure lies close to the body wall immediately beneath the pericardium ( fig. 2 , p.c. ) , and it does not seem to extend backwards beyond the last gill .
On a closer examination by means of sections , it is seen to be beset by a number of branched glandular caeca , lying in the hinder part of the body cavity ( fig. 2 , Jc.t .
) , which open into it , and into a backward prolongation from it ( fig. 1 , hJt .
) .
These branched glandular caeca on opening the body cavity are seen as a mass of tubes apparently interlacing with those of the opposite side , and lying ventral to the * * Schiff , " Zeit .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , " Bd .
ix .
f " Morphol .
Jalirbuch , " Bd .
iv .
1881 .
] On certain Points in the Anatomy of Chiton , Fig. 1 .
A diagrammatic representation of the kidney and generative ducts of Chiton dis-crepans , viewed from the ventral surface .
The pallial groove is represented as enclosed by the lines p.g. ; and in it are seen the 16 gills ( Jr. ) , the generative ( g\#187 ; o. ) and renal ( r.o. ) orifices ; and the anus ( a. ) The branched nature of the kidney is shown in the anterior part of the figure on the right side ; posteriorly these secreting tubules are omitted .
On the left side of the figure the kidney duct alone is indicated .
a. , anus ; Jr. , branchiae ; D , dilated part of kidney duct opening to exterior : g. points to the junction of the generative duct with the generative gland ; the generative gland is supposed to be torn away ; g.d. , generative duct ; h.Jc .
, posterior part of kidney duct ; g.ogenerative orifice ; Jc.t .
, secreting tubules of kidney ; k.d. , duct of kidney running forward , bending round at T and running back , receiving glands as far back as O. From O it runs to the pericardial opening p.o. , receiving no glands ; p.g^ pallial groove ; 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , last four branchiae ; the ventricle and auricular openings are indicated by dotted lines .
124 Mr. A. Sedgwick .
[ Dec. 8 , rectum on the floor of the body cavity ( fig. 2 , This portion of the kidney has been seen and described by von Jehring , but instead of constituting the whole of the kidney and opening to the exterior by a median pore , it is only the posterior part , and opens on each side into the bladder-like structure which opens to the exterior in the Fig. 2 .
A diagrammatic representation of a transverse section through Chiton discrepans at the level of the renal orifices ( r.o. , fig. 1 ) .
Dorsally is the pericardial cavity with the heart , separated by the pericardial floor from the general body cavity containing the viscera .
Ventrally is the posterior apparently median unpaired part of the kidney- ( Jc.t .
and Jc.cJ ) seen by von Jehring .
A little in front of this section , the kidney tubules take up a distinctly lateral position .
D ; p.g. ; b.r. ; Jc.t .
; r.o. as in fig. 1 .
A , auricle ; V , ventricle ; b.v. , branchial vein ; b.a. , branchial artery ; p.c. , pericardial cavity ; In .
, lateral nerve ( pallial ) ; p.n. , pedal nerve ; F , foot ; A. C. , alimentary canal ; g.g. , generative gland ; b.c. , body cavity ; Jc.c .
see Jc.t .
; p.Jc.d .
, part of kidney duct which in fig. 1 is hidden from view by D. position described above .
I have many series of sections through this hinder part of the kidney of Chiton , which prove most conclusively that these hinder ventrally placed tubules do open in the way I have stated .
On examining the anterior end of the bladder-like structure it is found that it is continued forwards as a duct ( fig. 1 , Jc.d .
) , which receives , all along its course , the ducts of bunches of branching glandular caeca , lying at the side of the body cavity ( fig. 1 , Jc.t .
' ) .
These branching glandular caeca constitute the gland described by Midden-dorfE .
Their structure precisely resembles that of the first described 1881 ] On certain Points in the Anatomy of Chiton .
posterior tubules , which open into the dilated part of the duct and its backward prolongation .
The duct can be traced forward to about the level of the 4th shell-plate ( fig. 1 , T ) , at which point it turns sharply round and runs back parallel with the first part of its course .
A considerable part of the gland lies in front of this turning point of the duct .
the secretion of this part is poured into a branch given off from the main duct at the bend ( fig. 1 , T ) .
The posteriorly directed part of the renal duct lies close to the dorsal edge of the part running-forward and , like the latter , receives the efferent ducts of bunches of glandular caeca ( fig. 1 ) .
From the level of the 5th shell-plate ( fig. 1 , 0 ) to its posterior termination ( fig. 1 , p.\lt ; \gt ; .
) , about to be described , it receives no glandular caeca , but runs backwards as a simple duct distinguishable by its brown colour , which is due to a deposit of colouring ; matter in its walls .
On reaching the level of the bladder-like dilatation of the kidney duct first described , it applies itself to the dorsal inner wall of that structure as far back as the level of the last gill .
At this point , which marks the hind border and the external opening of the bladder , it runs outwards and then forwards ( fig. 2 , in close contact with the dorsal side of the lateral nerve cord .
It runs forward to about the level of the penultimate gill , where it suddenly stops and opens by a small pore into the pericardium ( fig. 1 , beneath , i.e. , ventral to the anterior part of the auricle .
Comparing the arrangement of the kidney of Chiton with that of Anodon , there is seen to be a close agreement .
In both the kidney is paired and consists of a gland bent on itself , opening at the one extremity into the pallial cavity , and at the other into the pericardium .
In both the kidney is unsegmented ( a fact to be remembered when the nature of the shell and gills of Chiton is discussed ) .
There is a further agreement between these two animals in the relation of the openings of the generative ducts to those of the renal ducts ; in both the latter are placed close behind the former .
With regard to the minute structure of the kidney of Chiton , I have no exact observations .
It is necessary to study it in the fresh state .
The inner borders of the cells lining the glandular cseea are stated by von Jehring to be ciliated .
The most internal part of the kidney duct , i.e. , that which receives no glandular caeca ( fig. 1 , 0 to p.h.d. ' ) , is , with the exception of a small portion adjoining the pericardial opening , lined by columnar cells containing a yellow colouring matter , which gives this portion of the duct a yellow colour , easily visible to the naked eye .
This yellow colouring matter , which seems to be part of the excretion of the cells lining the duct , is absent in the part of the duct which runs forwards from the level of the hinder edge of the bladder to the pericardial opening ( p.k.d. to p.o.).Here are found large columnar cells provided with long cilia , which line also the pericardial opening .
On certain Points in the Anatomy of Chiton .
[ Dec. 8 , The cells of the glandular caeca seem to have the structure usually seen m molluscan renal organs , and have been correctly described by von Jehring . .
' To sum up , the kidney of Chiton consists of\#151 ; ( 1 .
) A duct opening to the exterior in the pallial groove behind the generative opening , and internally into the pericardium .
( 2 .
) Glandular caeca opening into this duct .
The duct may be described as consisting of three parts:____ ( 1 .
) The part into which the glandular caeca of the kidney open .
This part is open behind where it opens to the exterior ( fig 1 D ) In front it bends round ( fig. 1 , T ) , and runs backwards to about the level of the 5th shell-plate , where it changes its character , and is continuous with ( 2 ) a duct ( fig. 1 , 0 ) containing brown colouring matter m the columnar cells lining it , and receiving no glandular caeca .
This part extends back to the level of the last gill , where it turns outwards , and becomes continuous with ( 3 ) a part running forward for a short distance close to the lateral nerve , and lined by large ciliated columnar cells .
This part opens in front at the level of the penultimate gill into the pericardium ( fig. I expected to find the communication between the two parts of the renal duct behind in the region of the bladder , and for some time I was puzzled at not finding it .
On mentioning the arrangement of parts to Mr. Balfour , he suggested that the communication might possibly be found in front , reasoning from the analogy of the structure of the kidney in other Mollusca .
On examining the anterior part of the gland more care-fully , I at once found that his suggestion was correct , the two parts of the gland communicating as I have described .
I have no observations to add to those of previous observers , on the general arrangement of the nervous system .
I may mention that the lateral and pedal nerves have a coating of ganglion cells , and a central core of fibres .
The animals are dioecious .
The generative gland is unpaired and dorsal .
The generative ducts are paired , and are attached to the hinder border of the gland , and open in Chiton into the pallial groove between the 13th and 14th gill , in a line with the opening of the renal duct .
The duct passes dorsal to the anterior end of the dilated part of the renal duct ( fig. 1 , ej-df ; and then curls round the outer border of the lateral nerve-cord to its opening , presenting in this respect precisely the same relation as does the renal duct .
The male duct has a short direct course to its opening ( fig. 1 ) ; while the female duct is much coiled .
Another species , Chiton cancellatus , which I have examined , presents essentially the same arrangement of its renal organ and generative ducts as that just described for Chiton Dali* states that in some species of Chiton , the generative products * " Proceedings of the United States ' National Museum , " vol. i. 1881 .
] The Action of Cutting Tools .
escape into the body cavity and make their exit by several pores placed close together , and symmetrically , on each side in the pallial groove ; oviducts apparently being absent .
I have not any specimens of the species he mentions as possessing this peculiarity ( .
, marmoreus and ruber ) , so have not been able to test his observations by means of sections .
I hope to be able to give a fuller account of these and other points in the anatomy of Chiton at some future period , for the preparation of which it will be necessary to obtain some fresh specimens .
VI .
" The Action of Cutting Tools .
" By A. Mallock .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received November 4 , 1881 .
The action of cutting tools has not often been treated from a theoretical point of view ; in fact I only know of two papers on the subject , one by Professor Willis and the other by Mr. Babbage .
Of these Professor Willis 's paper is purely geometrical , showing what angles the edges of tools may make with one another if the cutting angles are to be such as experience shows to answer best .
Mr. Babbage , on the other hand , does not enter at all on the question of the shape of the tool , but by making certain assumptions as to the relation between the dimension of the shaving removed by a tool and the work required to remove it , he deduces some results showing how to remove a given amount of material most economically .
His conclusions cannot be considered correct , nor do they agree with experience ( see Note 1 ) .
I do not attempt in the following paper to give any dynamical investigation of the action of tools , in fact it would be almost impossible to do so without a more extended knowledge of the laws which govern the strains in bodies subjected to large forces , but merely to classify the various actions which observation shows to be caused by the progress of the tool , and to quantify approximately the work expended in each .
For this purpose , shavings from a great variety of substances were examined both in the course of their formation ( by a microscope attached to the toolholder ) and after they were removed .
Among the substances examined may be mentioned four or five samples of wrought iron , and as many of steel , cast iron , gun metal , brass , copper , lead , zinc , hard paraffin , soap , and clay .
This last-mentioned substance was found extremely useful in examining the formation of the shavings , for by altering the amount of water it contained its behaviour under the tool could be made to

