ascension from the hour of the stars coming under the northpole , you have the true time of the night to a minute .
At the latter end of the book is to be found , 1 .
the table of logarithms for all numbers under 10000 ; 2 .
the table of proportional parts ; 3 .
the table of signs and tangets to each degree and 10 ; 4 .
a table of the prizes of commodities , from 1 to 10000 pounds , ells , yards , &amp;c. 5 .
a table comparing the English foot and pound with foreign feet and pound ; 6 .
a table for gauging casks not full ; 7 .
a table of meridional miles and parts ; 8 .
a table of the right ascension of the sun ; and 9 .
another of the longitude and latitude of 100 notable fixed stars , with their right ascensions in degrees and time , and declination for An. 1680 ; with the difference for every ten years , to supply them for ever .
III .
Icones &amp; Descriptiones Rariorum Plantarum Siciliae , Melitae , Galliae , &amp; Italie .
Auth. Paulo Boccone , Panormitano Siculo , &amp;c. E. Theatro Sheldoniano , 1674 .
THIS industrious and skilful Botanist , having spent many years , and much labour , in the search after rare plants through Sicily , Italy , and other countries , thought fit to publish part of them here in England , where he was himself not long since , and very generously left his engraven plates and manuscripts concerning the same , to be printed , as now they are , in the splendid Sheldonian Theatre at Oxford .
There are above an hundred plants , represented in 45 plates , and those ( a few ones excepted ) not described elsewhere .
Amongst them is found a fruit , in appearance an Orange , but filled with a citron-pulp ; to be met with in the gardens at Rhegium and Messina .
There is also described a certain Fungus of Sicily , with a bluish pulp , and a coriaceous shell , with the decoction of which latter , they at Messina dye wool and cloth of a purplish colour .
Notice also is taken of a Kali Sculum , having sometimes a root bigger than a mans thigh , and yielding ashes exceeding useful to wash , and whiten linen .
Nor may we pass by the Fungus Typhoides coccineus of Maltha , by reason of its celebrated astringency and virtue in staunching of blood ; nor the Heliotropium of Sicily , with a flower extraordinary both for bigness and sweet scent , &amp;c. It is much wished , that this author , whose genious and abilities are considerable in the search and study not only of plants , but also of other observables of nature , may find suitable encouragement to continue his diligence for further discoveries of that kind .
IV .
Navigation and Commerce , their original and progress containing a succinct account of traffic in general ; its benefits and improvements ; of discoveries , wars and conflicts at sea , from the original of navigation to this day ; with special regard to the English nation ; their several voyages and expeditions unto the beginning of our late differences with Holland ; in which his majesties title to the dominion of the sea is asserted against the novel and late pretenders ; by J. Evelyn Esq ; F. R. S. printed 1674 , in 8 o. ONLY a part of this title was named for an other purpose in the last tract , Numb. 103.p .
59 .
In this elegant discourse , besides the largeness of the historical collections , the worthy author excites England , and advises the most advantageous preparations for our future defence , and for aggrandizing our trade and commerce ; which ought to be our care , whilst we have the opportunity , and whilst we are less concerned spectators of the wars round about us .
Note , The mistake in N o. 103.p.57.l.17 .
in the answer of Janus , gives us the opportunity of inculcating a stronger impression by the amendment , thus ; Janus being asked , Why , when we sacrifice to other Gods , the frankincense and wine must be first offered to his Godhead ?
Ut possis aditum per me , qui limina servo , Ad quoscunque voles , inquit , habere Deos .
Then to the question , Why cheerful and good words must celebrate his calends ?
Omnia principiis , inquit , inesse solent .
Cheerful beginnings of the particulars there mentioned , viz. Nurseries of Mulberries and Vineyards , would raise our hopes to see England in few years well improved , according to the religious or mysterious observations of the old Greeks , and no less prosperous Romans .
LONDO N , Printed for John Martyn , Printer to the Royal Society , 1674 .
An Account of some Books .
I. Observations touching the TORRICELLIAN EXPERIMENT , and the various Solutions of the same , especially touching the Weight and Elasticity of the AIR .
London , 1674 .
in 8o .
THE learned and inquisitive author of these observations , having thought fit not to prefix his name to this book , that so he might be the fitter ( as himself intimates ) to bear the correction of his errors , if any such should occur to his notice ; we have no reason to blame him for that omission , but rather commend his modesty and diffidence , and withal entertain the hopes of seeing something published hereafter from the famous patrons of the Hypothesis by him impugned , that may either contribute to the further elucidation and establishment of their Doctrine , if it be solid , or serve to rectify their mistakes therein , if it be ill-grounded .
Our author then , taking this difficult subject in hand , professes in the beginning , that , to avoid the imputation of a Plagiary , he hath borrowed in this controversy some things from others , especially from Franciscus Linus and Honoratus Fabri , though he also delivers somewhat that 's new , and makes the method and manner of Explication of it as much his own as he can ; the which he performs in this order : 1 .
He explains some Terms which he hath occasion to use in this discourse .
2 .
He sets down some Statical observations , necessary to this inquiry ; viz. converning the gravitation of water upon water , of air upon air , or any subjected bodies in it ; of heavier fluids upon those that are lighter ; and of lighter fluids upon those that are specifically heavier , concerning which particulars , he endeavours to prove , first , that the upper parts of water do not actually gravitate or press upon the lower parts of it ; where yet he acknowledges , they do gravitate ad pondus and physically upon the lower , so as to make the whole heavier , though they do not gravitate ad motum or sensibly : Which seems to be in effect the same with what the honourable Robert Boyle with clearness teaches in his Hydrostatical Letter , printed An. 1672 .
upon the occasion of some exceptitions made by Mr. Sinclair about a way of weighing water in water ; where he saith , that the upper portion of water does really press the subjacent , tho ' it doth not actually depress it ; or , doth gravitate on it but not prae-gravitate .
Mean time , this author here pretends to prove the said non-pressing of water upon water both by reason and observation .
After which he examines , whether the free and common air , wherein we live , ( commonly called Atmosphere ) extending upwards about seven miles or more , hath any sensible actual gravitation upon the lower world ; and admit it have , whether any determinate portion of that atmosphere , as a column or inverted cone , for the purpose of six inches square at the base , hath any actual gravitation upon the subjected base , on which it is supposed to rest ; and supposing it have , whether that gravitation be of any considerable , and of what , moment ?
Where he denies not , that air compressed may have weight in it , so as to gravitate considerably upon other air , either not at all , or less , compressed ; nor , that even the free air it self may have some intrinsique gravity , though exceeding little ; nor , that this free air may have some , though very inconsiderable , measure of actual gravitation , which yet he thinks is scarce perceptible to sense , notwithstanding all the mixtures of vapours and steams from the earth and water .
But that which he labours to maintain , is , 1 .
That the whole body of the atmosphere hath no considerable gravitation either upon its own parts , or upon the subjected body of the terrestrial globe , much less such a notable gravitation , as is supposed by those he disputes against .
2 .
That , if it had , yet any given portion or column of the atmosphere hath no such gravitation .
Concerning the former , he thinks fit to say little , referring himself therein to Franc .
Linus 's tract de inseparabilitate Corporum , and to Hon. Fabri in the sixth of his late Philos. Conferences ; and he scruples not to say , that there is not any instance or experiment , known to him , and alleged for the evincing of that pretended gravitation of the free air , but is readily capable of a more suitable solution , more adequately quately fitted to the phenomenon , and less encumbered with difficulties , than the solution of the weight and spring of the air .
As to the latter , he asserts , 1 .
That , tho ' we should admit a considerable gravity of aportion of air , taken and divided as one entire separate gross body ( as in a bladder , a glassbubble , &amp;c. ) so that it partakes of the common quality of heavy bodies ; yet there is a peculiar pressure or gravitation belonging to this subtle fluid body , which hath its lines of direction every way within the compass of its own extreme superficies , whereby that perpendicular gravitation , which is common to all bodies , is corrected , abated , and in a great measure suspended .
2 .
If there were no such allay given to its common perpendicular gravitation , by its proper motion , or its own gravitation ; yet the air being one continued body , and so interwoven , and as it were mortaised one part in another , the other parts of the air , that are contiguous every where to the earth , do sustain and bear it up , like the sides of an arch , from all sensible pressure or gravitation upon any determinate or particular body , that is within the compass of of its pressure .
And although the air be mingled with vapours of terrestrial and aqueous Essluvia , heavier than it self , yet they are , saith he , so interwoven in the very webb and texture of the air , that it supports many of them ; and those that are too heavy for it , or much disunited and separate from it , are precipitated upon the superficies of the earth , and the air discharged of them , as in rain , snow , hail , &amp;c. All which he attempts to make out by some experiments ; which whether they be unexplicable by the Hypothesis contended against , we must leave to those that are concerned to judge .
3 .
He sets down , what it is not that may be supposed in the space deserted by the mercury in the Torricellian experiment , viz. that it is not Nothing , nor Air , nor AEther , nor any body , that comes from without .
4 .
He declares , what he thinks it is , that possesses the place derelict by the quicksilver ; namely , a subtle corporeal substance extracted from the gross Mercurial body , or forced out of it ; not by Linus 's way , which our author takes to be this , that by the descent of the mercury , and in obsequium naturae universalis , or for preventing of vacuity , there are taken away successively from the superficies of the Quicksilver certain scales as it were of an indivisible profundity , rarefied into a subtle invisible consistence , which supply that deserted space , and make up a kind of funiculus , that suspends the Mercury to the Tube , and is co-extended to the whole vacant space gradually , as the Mercury descended .
This way , I say , our Author rejects , alleging his reasons for doing so , and substitutes certain Effluvia , and subtle steams , sent out from the Mercury ; affirming , that these steams , or vapours , are separated from that body , First , by way of Expression , or straining them out by the strong descending motion of the Mercury , and the compression of the inferior parts by the superior ; as also the great agitation of its parts , the grosser mercurial parts coming closer together , and expelling the more subtle and vaporous parts .
Secondly , By way of Extraction , or drawing out those parts that are more subtle and fluid , and capable of expansion ; whence he thinks arises that lucta and mora observed in the descent of the Mercury .
And these parts thus extracted are , in his opinion , dilated to as great an amplitude and tension , as the strength of the descent of the Mercury , and the wideness of the space it leaves requires ; which tension also , he saith , contributes much to the retarding of the swiftness of the Mercurial descent .
And because at about 2912 inches the weight of the Quicksilver decreases to such a state , as cannot work any further separation of subtle matter to supply any more room , it stays there , and descends no farther , not having strength enough at that height to separate any subtle matter from it self to supply the space it should leave by such descent .
Where he considers , that although the immediate cause of the separation of the subtle matter of Mercury , and the expansion thereof , be the force of the descent , weight and pressure of the Mercury ; yet this is performed to avoid the dissolution of Continuity , or ( which is all one ) a Vacuum .
5 .
What is not the cause that suspends the Cylinder of Mercury in the Tube to the height of about 29 inches ; namely , not the Gravitation or Pressure of the impending Air , nor its Elasticity : Where our Author largely examines the doctrine of the spring of the air , viz. 1 .
What spring is of all hands agreed to be truly found in the air .
2 .
What spring is substituted by the late philosophy , and how by the assertors thereof it is applied to the solution of phenomenon of this kind .
3 .
What his reasons and evidences are to evince the mistake , as he esteems it , of this elaterical supposition ; and how , in his opinion , some arguments for the weight and spring of the air may be answered .
6 .
What he thinks to be the cause that suspends the mercury from subsiding below 29 inches , or thereabout , in the Torricellian Tube .
Where he affirms , that the cause , why the mercury falls so low as 2921 inches , is , that the weight of the descending mercurial column is of that strength , as to give the included air that tension , or dilatation ; and , why it subsides no lower , is , because , when the air hath attained its utmost extension that the descent of that column of mercury can give it that aerial cylinder holds it there , and keeps it up to that height , the weight of the mercury being now lessened .
Which he undertaketh both to make out by some observations , and to free from what may be objected against it ; to all which he adds instances by him conceived fit to show , that the tension of the air , or any other tensible body , necessarily effects attraction on the bodies to which it is contiguous .
Which done , he considers , how it comes to pass , that , since there is yet remaining about 2921 inches of mercury in the Tube , which doubtless hath a residue of subtle matter extractable out of it , to supply a greater room than what is yet left above 2921 inches , that , I say , by the weight of that 2921 inches of mercury , there is not more of the mercurial effluxes extracted and dilated , which may give a total descent , and an evacuation of all the mercury in the Tube , into the stagnant mercury in the subjacent vessel .
7 .
He sets down , and endeavours to answer , those objections , that seem to him of greatest force against the supposition of the former paragraph .
8 .
He examines particularly , and lastly , the cohesion of the polished marbles , and the Magdeburgh hemisphere , and the raising of water in common pumps .
So sar of the contents of this Treatise : It not being the intent of the publisher of the papers to censure any books that are therein taken notice of ; he only craves leave to say thus much of the piece he hath now given an account of , that some very learned and able men , who have perused the same , tho ' they acknowledge it to be very ingenious , and containing more specious objections and experiments against the maintainers of the weight and spring of the air , than have been produced hitherto ; yet they declare withal , that such objections seem not cogent to them , and that the experiments alleged to the contrary , may be solved by the very Hypothesis impugned by this author .
So that we shall leave it to fit readers to judge , whether there be not already said enough by the Honourable Robert Boyle ( to name here no others ) in his Physico-Mechanical Experiments , both the first Treatise , and the Continuation ; as also in his Answer to Fr. Linus ; and in his new Experiments about the Pressure and Spring of Air upon Bodies under water ; and likewise in his Hydrostatical Letter , dilucidating an Experiment of weighing water in water , printed with the same new Experiments against Mr. George Sinclair ?
And whether those real and visible things by which it appears that such a cause being put , such an effect follows , and the same cause being removed , the effect also ceaseth , be not indeed more satisfactory , than a suniculus ex subtilibus Mercurialibus effluviis contextus , fastning the Mercury to the Tube as far as it is void thereof ?
II .
A Mathematical Compendium , collected out of the Notes and Papers of Sir Jonas Moore , by Nicholas Stevenson .
London , 1674 , in 12o .
THIS well-stored Pocket-book contains abundance of useful practices in Arithmetic , Geometry , Astronomy , Geography , Navigation , Embatteling and Quartering of Armies , Fortification , Gunnery , Gauging , and Dyalling , explaining also the Logarithms with new Indices , Nepair 's Rods , making of Movements , and the Application of Pendulums , with the Projection of the Sphere for an universal dim 2 al , al , &amp;c. To all which is premised , First , A Diary for the year 1674 , containing the description of the Year , Festivals , and Notable Days , Sun 's Rising , Changes of the Moon , &amp;c. with the Time of High-water at London-Bridge , with Rules to serve other places , calculated for each day from the true Southing of the Moon , and a new Theory of the Tides , differing , some days , above an hour and half from the ordinary rule , and computed by his Majesty 's special command : Secondly ; A perpetual Calendar , and in it the uses of three small Tables for finding the Days of the Month , Sun 's Place , Right Ascension , the Prime , Epact , Moon , Tides , Stars , &amp;c. for ever .
Thirdly , A Table of Measures , Square , or Superficial ; Measure for Horses , Agreement of Measures of other Countries with ours , a Table of Troy-weight , and that of Apothecaries and Averdupois , together with the best proportion of Troy and Averdupois , as also the manner of weighing all sorts of Commodities , and of dry Measures , a Table for Corn Measure , and of the Chaldron and Water Measure , Tables of Wine , Beer , and Ale Measure , the value and fineness of Gold and Silver , a Table of the Proportion and Weights of Metals , Liquors , &amp;c. a Table of the Assize of Bread for all Weights .
These particulars being premised , Arithmetic is first treated of , and in it Numeration , Addition and Substraction in Whole and Decimals ; Multiplication and Division , with , or without Nepair 's Rods , most easy and certain ; Extraction of the Square and Cube Roots easily by the same Rods ; The Logarithms , and their Use ; Further of Reduction and Decimal Tables at large ; Of Fractions ; Of Progressions and Combinations ; Of Proportion , direct and backward ; Of the double Golden Rule , and continual Proportion ; Ordinary Rules of Practice in Arithmetic ; Rules for Duodecimal Arithmetic ; Rules of Practice for Interest , simple , or compound ; Rules concerning Freeholds to be bought , or sold ; A Table to purchase by , at 5 , 6 , 8 , or 10 , per Cent. Of the Uses of the Tables of Signs and Tangents .
In the Geometrical Part is contained the Resolution of Plain and Spherical Triangles , Longimetry , Planimetry , and Stereometry metry , Longimetry , the art of levelling , the measuring of hights or distances unapproachable , and the hights of several Steeples , Towers , &amp;c. in English feet ; some propositions geometrical for ordinary uses ; a table giving the length of the parts of a circle .
In Planimetry , the measuring of triangles , with and without a perpendicular ; of squares , oblongs , regular or irregular figures ; the dimension of circles , and other round figures ; the best proportions for circles , spheres , cylinders , &amp;c. measuring of pavements , plaistering , wainscotting , &amp;c. measuring of carpenders and brick-work ; tables , to cast square feet into perches of a brick and a half thick , &amp;c. to turn square inches into sticks , and parts of tapestry ; to turn square inches into feet , quarters and inches .
In Stereometry , or measuring of solids , as tapering timber , spheres , sectors , and segments of spheres , spheroids ; tables , for plain and solid measure ; for turning solid inches into solid feet , and for finding a foot by the superficial content at the end of timber or stone ; the measuring of earth-work , as cellars , vaults , ramparts , &amp;c. A table to turn solid feet into flours , quarters , &amp;c. measuring ships , vessels , &amp;c. to double a cube : by the magnitude or weight of any body , to know the weight of another body , &amp; contra ; the weights of metals , stones , &amp;c. in water ; two tables for turning solid inches of water into averdupois weight , and contrarily ; the measuring of all irregular bodies by sinking them in water ; of the Gauging of vessels ; tables for turning any number of solid inches into wine-measure , or into beer or ale-measure , as also into dry measure ; the measuring Vessels not full .
After this do follow the instructions for Embatteling of Soldiers for Castrametation , Fortification , and Gunnery ; concerning which last , there is a Table of the Names of Guns , their weight , bore , shot , powder for proof and service , as also the Names of the Implements belonging to a Gun ; to tertiate , to dispart , and to know the bore ; about the shooting in great Guns , with their ranges , and a Table of ranges .
As for Astronomy , here are delivered Problems for practice of plain and spherical Triangles , and Problems of the Sphere ; and then , the obtaining of the Hour and Azimuth by taking the height of the Sun .
Concerning Geography , he treats of Zones , Inhabitants , Climates , Maps , Lands , Seas , and gives exact rules to know the distances and positions of places , and likewise the way to know the contents of any parcel of the earth in square miles , contained in any triangle .
Next , he teaches navigation by the plain sea-chart , by Mercator 's Chart , and by a great circle ; where is added , a table to turn the rumbs into degrees and minutes ; together with some Problems for knowing the ships way on a great circle , upon a parallel , or upon any rumb .
In the doctrine of dyalling , he gives us the way of making an horizontal or erect dyal ; then a mechanical way for all dyals , and very exact ; the description and use of an universal dyal , being a new projection of the sphere , together with the uses thereof in very many propositions , both for hour and azimuth , and the stars ; to which is added , a discourse of the nature and fabric of watches , clocks , and other movements , with directions of Pendulums ; and how we are to find the numbers of beats , which a movement makes in an hour or minute , turns of the fusy , and length of going ; treating particularly of pendulums , the universal measure , length of pendulums , and the way of regulating the inequality of a pendulum , and how to know , what alteration in time the lengthing or shortning of a pendulum to a tenth of inches will make ; moreover , of finding out sit numbers for the wheels and pinions .
To which are subjoyn 'd , examples for small and greater clock and watch-work ; and a rule of giving particular motions .
Which is followed by a note concerning time , and the length of the solar and sidereal days , and how to adjust the pendulum ; and then , by the uses of the tables of the Suns right ascension ; to which is added , the mention of an 100 notable stars ; and of 22 stars about the north-pole , concerning which latter stars , here never rising or setting , there is an excellent and useful table , which shows their right ascensions , and their time and azimuth , when they come under the pole-star ; whence , if you do but hang up a thread and plummet , and looking thro'a hole to take away the stars ray , observe , when any of these 22 stars come with the pole-star to that perpendicular ; if you substract the suns right

