1873.1 Dr. It .
S. Ball 's Researches Dynamics .
385 position of another distinct variation having two maxima and two minima , in the twenty-four hours , like the barometer variation ; and he supports his views by a reference to the variation of the east components of the wind in the months of July and August , when the land- and sea-breezes have almost disappeared .
This is found to exhibit a decided double period .
The north components of the land- and sea-breezes are then approximately eliminated from the north components of the whole variation , and the variation which then remains exhibits a very decided double period in this direction also .
These variations with double periods are regarded as indicative of the existence of a double diurnal variation in the general movements of the atmosphere .
Upon this hypothesis typical diurnal variations of the wind are deduced for north and south low latitudes\#151 ; that for north latitudes exhibiting a double diurnal right-handed rotation , and that for south latitudes a double diurnal left-handed rotation ; and from these the diurnal variation of the barometer is deduced .
The movements of the wind-vane at Bombay are then analyzed ; and the writer concludes that the greater part of the excess of " direct " over " retrograde " rotation of the vane at Bombay is due to the diurnal variation of the wind .
Extracts are given from observations made at St. Helena , Toronto , and Ealmouth , showing the character of the diurnal wind-variations at those places , and their greater or less agreement with the deduced typical curves .
The writer maintains that these variations afford independently a possible , if not a probable , explanation of that movement of the air which Dove had called the " Law of Gyrationand , in conclusion , he points to the extent of their applicability in deducing weathep probabilities , and to the method of discussing storms .
A postscript is added , giving the mean diurnal variation of the wind at Sandwick Manse , Orkney , and pointing out its general conformity with the results deduced from the Bombay wind-observations .
VII .
" Researches in the Dynamics of a Rigid Body by the aid of the Theory of Screws .
" By Robert Stawell Ball , LL. D. Communicated by Professor Cayley .
Received May 29 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains some developments of a theory sketched in the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy , vol. xxv .
p. 157 .
Part I. discusses the quantity of energy necessary to give a body a twist about one screw while acted upon by a wrench about another screw .
The expression virtual coefficient is defined , and application is made of the reciprocal character of the virtual coefficient to solve the problem of resolving a wrench along six given screws .
386 Prof. Owen on the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
[ June 19 Part II .
Six screws of reference can be chosen , such that each screw is reciprocal to all the rest ; the group is said to consist of coreciprocal screws .
The analogy between the convenience obtained by referring the twist coordinates of a rigid body to a group of coreciprocal screws , and the convenience obtained by referring the coordinates of a point to rectangular axes , is pointed out .
The important theorem that one screw can be found which is reciprocal to five given screws is discussed .
Part III .
The sexiant is a function of six screws , which can be expressed as a determinant .
The property possessed by six screws when their sexiant vanishes may be enunciated in several different ways ; e. wrenches of appropriate magnitudes equilibrate when applied about the six screws to a free rigid body .
If seven twist velocities about seven screws neutralize , then each twist velocity must be proportional to the sexiant of the six remaining screws .
Part IV .
If a quiescent rigid body receive an impulsive wrench , then the body commences to twist about an instantaneous screw .
It is shown that if four impulsive screws lie on a cylindroid , the four instantaneous screws lie on a cylindroid , and also the four impulsive reactions caused by the constraints .
The anharmonic ratios of each of these groups of four are all equal .
Several special properties of impulsive and instantaneous screws are also considered .
Part Y. When a body has Jc degrees of freedom , it is shown that Tc principal screws of Tcinetic energy can be determined .
When an impulsive wrench is imparted about a principal screw of kinetic energy , the body commences to twist about the same screw .
These principles are illustrated by detailed examination of the cases of two and three degrees of freedom .
Part YI .
Miscellaneous propositions .
The principal questions discussed are:\#151 ; the locus plane of a point for twists about the screws on a cylindroid ; the equilibrium of a body under the action of gravity for the different cases of freedom ; remarks on Professor Sylvester 's theory of lines in involution ; generalization of a theorem due toM .
Chasles .
VIII .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
Family Macro-podidjj .
Genera Macropus , , Leptosiagon , coptodon , and Palorchestes.\#151 ; Part IX .
" By Prof. Owen , F.R.S. Received April 19 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) In this Part the author concludes his descriptions of the fossils on hand relating to the family of Kangaroos ( Macropodidse ) .
He gives ditional evidence of the characters of Macrojpus Titan , evidence of a species of Macropus proper ( JM .
Ferragus ) .
and of two subgeneric m \#171 ; fications of that type ( 'Pachysiagonand Leptosiagon ) .
The characters

