1882 .
] On the Nerves of the Frog 's Fung .
November 16 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Professor Valentine Ball , Mr. Charles Baron Clarke , Mr. Richard Tetley G-lazebrook , and Professor John C. Malet were admitted into the Society .
General Boileau , Mr. W. H. M. Christie , Mr. " W. De La Rue , Mr. G. Matthey , and Dr. W. J. Russell , having been nominated by the President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; X " On the Nerves of the Frog 's Lung .
" By William Stirling , M.D. , Sc. D. Communicated , by Professor T. H. Huxley , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The author has re-examined the lung of the frog with special reference to its nervous apparatus .
Arnold , several years ago , gave a description of the nerves of the frog 's lung .
Amongst the nerve-fibres he found bell-shaped nerve-cells provided with a straight and a spiral fibre .
He was unable to find any nerve-cells in the apex of the lung .
Kandarazki has more recently examined these nerves .
He was unable to find any trace of a spiral fibre in the nerve-cells , and he considers the appearances which have been figured as such , to be due to folds in the capsule of the cell .
After giving an account of the methods used for exhibiting the course , relations , and structure of the nerves of the lung , the author gives an account of the result of his observations .
The pulmonary branches of the vagus enter the lung at its root or near .its attached end .
The branches contain medulldted and non-medullated nerve-fibres , and amongst these fibres before they enter the t 2 266 On the Nerves of the Frog 's Lung.[Nov .
1^ lung are ganglionic cells .
More than forty medullated nerve-fibres were counted as they entered the lung , but they were even still more numerous , while in addition there were many non-medullated fibres whose number it was not so easy to ascertain .
The main trunks of the nerve were traced into the lung under the sero3a , where they give off larger and smaller branches\#151 ; containing medullated and non-medullated fibres\#151 ; which could be traced across the alveolar wall , giving off finer branches in their course .
The main trunks exchange a few nerve-fibres , but the number of fibres so exchanged is not large .
Many of the finer branches , which may contain just one or two medullated fibres , could be traced to the muscular septa of the alveolar wall ; they dip into it , lose their myeline , and form a plexus of non-medullated fibres with elongated meshes .
From this plexus finer branches are given off which dip down between the non-striped muscle-cells .
The non-medullated nerves join and form a wide-meshed plexus of nerve-fibrils upon the alveolar wall in relation with the thin layer of non-striped muscle which occurs there .
From this plexus fibres are given off which seem to form a second plexus with finer meshes .
This plexus is quite distinct in its characters from that which occurs in the alveolar septa .
Some non-medullated fibres occur on the walls of the blood-vessels .
The nerve-cells which occur along the course of the nerve-fibres are very numerous .
They are most numerous where a branch is given off from one of the main trunks , but they also occur along the course of the nerves , it may be at the side or amongst the nerve-fibres , but always within the sheath of the nerve .
These nerve-cells piusent the characters of the cells described by Arnold and Beale , and in the fully developed condition at least are provided with a straight and a spiral process .
They are to be found even in the nerve-branches in the apex of the lung .
More than three hundred nerve-cells were counted in each lung disposed amongst the nerve-fibres , so that they are relatively far more numerous than the medullated nerve-fibres which enter the lung .
The arrangement of the nerve-fibres which supply the muscular coats of the arteries and veins are then described and figured .
The paper is illustrated by accurate drawings , which show the exact distribution of the intra-pulmonary nerves , the structure of the nerve-cells , and the plexuses of nerve-fibrils which occur in relation with the muscular coat of the lung and the pulmonary blood-vessels .

