204 Mr. J. Spiller on New Sources [ Mar. 6 , and while the mercury-vapours are still streaming out , an iron test-tube , previously prepared with great care and charged with 4-5 grms. of potassium , is dropped into the bottle , the neck reinserted , and after the whole of the bottle has been immersed into the zinc , the blast of the forge is forcibly increased so as , in the shortest possible time , to bring the zinc into the state of boiling , proper arrangements being made for keeping the neck of the bottle red-hot .
The potassium in a short time begins to volatilize , issuing in jets into the air and depositing caustic potash at the nozzle , which must be kept clear by means of an iron wire .
As soon as the distillation of the potassium ceases , the nozzle is closed by means of a ground-in wire plug , at once immersed into a mass of mercury contained in a test-tube , and the bottle withdrawn to a proper support , on which it is allowed to cool .
After it has reached a manageable temperature , the bottle is inserted into a mass of recently boiled water , the wire plug withdrawn , and the hydrogen formed by the action of the water on the potassium pumped out , by means of a " Sprengel , " into a eudiometer , to be measured .
In the experiments we have hitherto carried out , we have satisfied ourselves that the amount of mercury-vapour not swept out by the potassium is quite inappreciable ; and as our object has been in the mean time to merely arrive at approximate results and to perfect our methods of manipulation , we have neglected the minute correction , which , on account of that small remnant of mercury , ought , strictly speaking , to have been applied to the volume of the vapour as calculated from the capacity of the bottle in the cold , the coefficient of expansion of iron , and the temperature ( 1040 ' Deville ) at which the vapour was measured .
The results of our observations conclusively show that the density of potassium-vapour , as produced in the process described , cannot exceed 45 times that of hydrogen , and that therefore the molecule of potassium consists of two atoms ( K2 ) .
We intend to prosecute our research in other directions , proposing to ascertain , if possible , the densities of the iodides of caesium , rubidium , and potassium , these being , according to Bunsen 's experiments , the most volatile of the haloids of the alkali metals .
II .
t( On New Sources of Ethyl- and Methyl-Aniline/ '* By John Spiller , F.C.S. Communicated by Dr. Debus , F.R.S. Be- ?
ceived December 10 , 1872 .
In the process of manufacturing the Hofmann violet by the action of ethylic or methylic iodide upon rosaniline or one-of its salts , there is always produced a considerable quantity of a dark-coloured resinous or pitchlike substance , which has received the name of " Hofmann gum .
-f^is by-product varies in amount and consistence according to the shade o violet simultaneously produced being much more abundant when t 6 1873 .
] of Ethyl- and Methyl-Aniline .
iodide is employed in large proportion for the purpose of obtaining the bluer shades .
It has hitherto received no technical application , but accumulates as a waste refuse in the Aniline Dye-Works where Dr. A. W. Hofmann 's process is used .
Whether obtained by the ethylic or methylic reaction , the properties of this body may be briefly summarized as follows :\#151 ; It is easily fusible in boiling water , and very nearly of the same gravity , for it sinks or swims with the slightest current , being itself all but insoluble in that liquid .
In dilute acids ( sulphuric and hydrochloric ) it is freely soluble , giving dark-brown liquids , from which the gum may be again thrown down unchanged by neutralizing with alkali .
Alcohol and benzol dissolve it freely , especially when heated to nearly the boiling temperature and glacial acetic acid likewise holds it in solution , being precipitated , however , on dilution with water .
During the past year a great number of experiments have been made upon various descriptions of Hofmann gum , varying in their origin and quality according to the amount and nature of the iodide concerned in their production .
The results naturally divide themselves into two series , according as they happen to be ethyl or methyl derivatives , but there appears to be a perfect parallel between the two cases ; and as much interest attaches just now to the economical production of methyl-aniline , the work has rather extended in the direction of the methyl gums .
Without further preface , I may state that the object of this note is to announce the fact that these gums furnish a large quantity of methyl-aniline by destructive distillation .
After the Hofmann gum has been kept fused for some time to drive off nearly the whole of the enclosed water , it is charged into an iron still , either with or without the addition of roughly powdered charcoal , and then submitted to a greater heat over a coke fire* .
An oily body of nauseous odour soon commences to come over , and the distillation may be safely carried on until the product amounts to half the weight of the gum originally employed .
Small quantities of water and ammonia commonly appear , together with a little permanent gas ; but practically the oil and residual pitch may be said to be the sole resultants of the operation .
This oily body is methyl-aniline , and when purified by rectification in glass retorts becomes nearly colourless , boiling at 200 ' C. , and rising only a few degrees above that point towards the end of the distillation .
Not only does it possess the peculiar odour so characteristic of methyl-aniline , but the oil has the required boiling-point as stated above , and the remarkable property of forming permanently liquid compounds ( not crystallizable ) with any of the ordinary acids .
When acted upon with arsenic acid , at or near the boiling-point of the mixture , it furnishes a violet of somewhat red shade , which may * A mixture of pulverised iron borings , kaolin , and syrupy silicate of soda forms an excellent lute for fixing on the head of the still , as it withstands a high temperature without softening .
206 Dr. II .
von Willemoes-Suhm a new [ Mar. 6 , be employed as a dye ; and the oil gives colours of various tints when treated with other oxidizing agents , according to the usual reactions of methyl-aniline .
The red-violet from the arsenical melt may , after purification , be converted into the bluer shades by the Hofmann process , when a new generation of gum is again observed .
The specific gravity of the methyl-aniline oil has varied a little in different operations , but keeps within the ranges of 0-95 and 0-97 .
It is probable that this trifling variation may be ascribed to admixtures of dimethyl-aniline , due in part to the introduction of higher methylated products into the crude gum employed in these experiments .
e E By way of conclusion , and as giving further proof towards establishing the identity of the new oils with ethyl- and methyl-aniline respectively , it may be stated that they fail to give Girard 's blue when heated with rosolic acid or rosaniline , but take the peculiar course of changing slightly towards violet , and then suddenly becoming decolorized , \#151 ; reactions almost without parallel in the history of the tinctorial aniline derivatives .
[ Specimens of the so-called Hofmann gum , of the ethyl-aniline and methyl-aniline oils , and skeins of silk and cotton dyed with the reddish ( or primitive ) violet made from the latter , accompanied this communication.\#151 ; J. S. ] III .
" On a new Genus of Amphipod Crustaceans .
" By Rudolph von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , Naturalist to the 'Challenger ' Exploring-Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. W yville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff of the Expedition .
Received February 1873 .
( Abstract .
) In lat. 35 ' 47 ' , long .
8 ' 23 ' , off Cape St. Yincent , the trawl was sent down to a depth of 1090 fathoms on the 28th of January , and brought up , among other very interesting things , a large transparent Amphipod with enormous faceted eyes .
The animal , evidently hitherto unknown , will be the type of a new genus , having the following characters Thaumops , nov .
gen .
Caput oblongum , inflatum , oculis maximis superiorem capitis partem tegentibus .
Segmenta thoracica 6 , abdominalia 5 .
Antennarum in feminis par unum , maxillarum par unum , pedum paria duo minima maxillarum locum tenentia .
Mandibulae nulla ) .
Pedes thoiaeici o , abdominales 3 in quoque latere .
Appendices caudales 4 , Gangli-orum pectoralium paria 5 , abdominalium 3 .
By operating in a similar manner upon the ethyl gums the corresponding thyl-aniline has been obtained , the boiling-point of which was higher and Lot so definite ( 205'-210 ' C. ) as in the case of the oil already described .

