[ 169 ] III .
On theJulianiacece :A New Natural Order of Plants .
By W. Botting Hemsley , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Keeper of the Herbarium and Library , Royal Botanic Gardens , Kew .
Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 28 , 1906 .
[ Plates 18-24 .
] Contents .
PAGE ( 1 ) History , including synonymy , native names , uses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..169 ( 2 ) General description , including views of individual trees ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..174 ( 3 ) Distribution and localities , altitudinal and latitudinal .
Associated vegetation .
Map . .
178 ( 4 ) External morphology .
Seed .
Leaves .
Male inflorescence : flowers , perianth , stamens , pollen .
Female inflorescence : involucre , flowers , ovary , style , ovule .
Fruit .
With figures in the text ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 180 ( 5 ) Microscopic structure of the ovule of Juliania with figures in the text ( by L. A. Boodle , F.L.S. ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .185 ( 6 ) Latin description ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..188 ( 7 ) Affinities ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 190 ( 8 ) Concluding remarks ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .192 ( 9 ) Bibliography ... ... ... ... ... ..^ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .193 ( 10 ) Plates , with explanations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..194 I. History .
It is surprising that a genus of plants so striking in aspect , so distinct in the shape of its fruit , and so widely spread as Juliania is in Mexico , should have entirely escaped observation by all the earlier European travellers in that country .
Francisco Hernandez , Physician to Philip II of Spain , was the first European to investigate the Flora of Mexico , where he spent six years ( 1571-1577 ) , chiefly in the State of Mexico .
He laboured most assiduously , especially in medical botany , but his elaborate descriptive and illustrative works on the subject , which were not published until after his death , contain no mention of a plant or product bearing the vernacular name generally applied to Juliania .
Nor does this name appear in any of the posthumous botanical works of Cervantes , or in those of Mocino and Sess^ , and it has not been found in the writings of any of the minor writers on Mexican botany of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries .
C. J. W. Schiede , M.D. , who accompanied Ferdinand Deppe on a botanical expedition to Mexico in 1828 , was apparently the first to send dried specimens to Europe of one of the species of Juliania .
Sets of their joint collections exist in VOL. cxcix.\#151 ; B 253 .
z 29.9.07 .
MR. W. BOTTING HEMSLEY ON THE JULIANIACE^E : the Herbaria of Kew , the British Museum , Berlin , Vienna , Halle , and probably in those of some other institutions ; but it seems highly probable that the specimens of Juliania were collected by Schiede on some subsequent excursion , because the narrative of his journeys with Deppe does not cover any part of the country in which the genus is known to be represented .
Schiede settled and practised medicine in the city of Mexico , where he died of typhus in 1836 , and there is no definite record of any excursions he may have made after he parted from Deppe .
In the meantime , however , he had sent further collections of dried plants to his friend Dr. D. F. L. von Schlechtendal , but it was not until 1843 that the latter published an account of the genus of plants in question .
Under the name of Hypopterygium ad he very fully described the material he had an opportunity of examining , but he had neither female flowers nor mature seeds , and he was doubtful whether the fruit was the result of one or more flowers .
His description is very accurate , and in the following extract he expresses his views of the affinities of the plant , which he regards as the type of a new Natural Order .
" Crescendi modo habituque dum florent mascula saltern specimina arboris a Mexicanis Coachalalate v. Guauchalalate nominate tantopere aemulantur ut ipsi plantae viventis collectores sub Elaphrii nomine specimina servare inducerentur .
Foeminei vero flores et fructus , illico te impedient a tali conjunctione .
Cujusnam vero familise socia erit singularis haec arbor ?
Sap\gt ; indaceis earn adnumerare fructus species externa suaderet , Terebinthaceis stigmatum *et pistilli conformatio , quae Pistaciarum in mentem revocat , Cupuliferisinvolucrum , et sic porro , sed nullam scimus quacum omnibus notis conveniret .
Meliorum vero exemplarium ( nostra sunt humiditate corrupta et mucore cariosa ) et plantae viventis observatio plura docebit : seminum maturorum fabricam , ovulorum situm et fceminei floris statum juvenilem .
Novi ordinis , multis aliis affinis , sed ab omnibus bene recedentis typum in hac stirpe vidimus , quam in Hernandesii opere frustra quaesivimus .
Nomen a beato amico in litteris datum mutavimus no falsum eo characterem indicare videamur .
Descriptione plantae masculae hispanice conscripta et altera amicissimi Schiede nec flores foemineos nec fructum tangente usi sumus .
" It is impossible to tell from the foregoing extract , or from the rest of Schlechtendal 's article , how far he was indebted to Schiede for the details of his description , and it has not been ascertained what Spanish description of the male plant to which he alludes he had before him .
None has been found .
Shortly after the publication of his generic name , Hypopterygium , Schlechtendal became aware that it had already been used to designate a genus of mosses .
In consequence , he substituted for it the name Juliania , and in this connection he adds : " Epitheton adstringens a beato amico [ Schiede ] in schedula datum verosimiliter A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
vim adstringentem liujus arboris indicat .
Amici nomen genericum quum ala basalis tantum nec cingens adsit , rejecimus .
" Previous to this , La Llave had published a but the same plant had already been described by Kunth under the name of Juliania was therefore unoccupied , and Schlechtendal was fully justified , according to the views of the majority of botanists , in taking it up .
Juliania is certainly preferable on account of its simplicity , and after due consideration I have decided to retain it , though at one time I was in favour of taking up Dr. Pose and some other , mostly American , botanists , who act on the principle of once a synonym always a synonym , would adopt the latter name , and we have jointly published diagnoses of the species under both generic appellations .
Schlechtendal 's objection that it was inappropriate is not justifiable , because the axis of the fruit is winged on both sides , but , apart from priority , there is a more potent objection to using it , inasmuch as it cannot be found on Schiede 's labels .
In our publication of the diagnoses of the species it is stated that all inquiries as to whether specimens of Juliania , collected by Schiede , existed in certain Continental herbaria were fruitless .
Since then Dr. B. Pilger , of the Berlin Herbarium , has made a further search and succeeded in finding three sheets of fragmentary specimens , all of wdiich he believes were collected by Schiede , though , through some mistake in the handwritings , two of them have been attributed to C. A. Ehrenberg , who collected plants in Mexico about a decade later than Schiede .
Dr. A. Engler , the Director of the Berlin Botanic Gardens , kindly lent one of the sheets , and furnished exact copies of the labels of the other two , so that I was enabled to verify my earlier determination from Schlechtendal 's description of the original species .
But no trace exists of Schiede 's alleged name , Amphipterygium .
There are various renderings of the vernacular name , and on one of the labels is the name Amphipterocuspis adstringens , in the handwriting , according to Dr. Pilger , of Schiede .
This further complication does not favour the revival of Schiede 's alleged name , even if it could be proved that he used it in his correspondence .
In order to exhaust all possible sources of specimens of Juliania , application was made to Mr. Jules Poisson , of the Paris Herbarium , who , after much searching , found a fragile specimen , in fruit , of the original species , collected by Captain Thiebaut , of the French Navy , at Manzanillo , a new locality , in 1866 .
Since Schlechtendal 's time , until I took up the study of the genus five years ago , nobody seems to have had sufficient material to supplement his description .
Walpers condenses the original description , and places the genus in the Burseraceae without any explanation .
Bindley placed it among the genera Incertcs sedis .
In 1854 , A. Gray described , also from very incomplete material , what he considered a second species of the same genus , collected in Peru .
An examination of fuller , though by no means complete material , has led me to separate it generically under the name of Orthopterygium .
Bentham and Hooker , and also Baillon , z 2 placed Juliania doubt ingly in the Anacardiacese ; whilst Engler excluded it from that natural order with the following remarks:\#151 ; " Est planta valde singulars , cujus fructus minim ut Bentham indicat unilocularis sed quinque locularis , loculis angustissimis .
Quamvis canales resiniferi adsint , attamen non tales , quales in Anacardiaceis observantur .
Plantse locus systematicus , cum flores nondum cogniti sint , mihi plane dubius remanet .
" Finally , Harms , in dealing with insufficiently known genera , limits himself to the following remark :\#151 ; " Eine durchaus ungeniigend bekannte Gattung , da noch zu entscheiden ist , ob das , was hier als weibliche Bliithe aufgefasst ist , eine Bliithe oder eiu Bluthenstand ist .
" Whether the imperfect fruit hitherto examined was the result of one or more flowers ; whether it was a simple or multiple fruit , was still an unsolved problem .
It is true that Schlechtendal , in the extract given above , speaks of an involucre ; and in his detailed description he says : " Foemineis de floribus dubia nos movent .
Ovarium enim utrum adsit unicum variabili stylorum et stigmatum numero coronatum , an duo connata ssepius adsint eodem involucro inclusa quseri potest .
" At the time when I was engaged on the Botany of Central America there was no specimen of Juliania either at Kew or in the British Museum , and I had no knowledge of it beyond the name .
In September , 1900 , the late Mr. Marc Micheli presented Kew with a small set of E. Langlasse 's Mexican plants .
Among them was a specimen of a plant in fruit , which , after much research , was identified with Schlechtendal 's Juliania , ; but the most careful and tedious examination carried me no further than Schlechtendal had reached 60 years before .
Previous to this ( in 1899 ) , as I afterwards found out , Kew received a specimen of a plant collected in the Mexican State of Jalisco by Mr. C. G. Pringle , n. 6871 , and named Juliania Schl .
This specimen bears young foliage and male flowers , and , on carefully comparing it with Schlechtendal 's description and Langlasse 's specimen in fruit , I came to the conclusion that it represented a different species of the same genus .
I brought this under the notice of Sir William Thistelton-Dyer , and he agreed that in order to get further material and complete our knowledge of the genus , it was desirable to publish figures and descriptions of what Kew possessed .
Accordingly the male specimen was published as Juliania mollis , Hemsl .
, and the fruiting specimen as J. adstringens , Schl .
This publication had the desired effect , for it brought me a letter at the end of 1901 from Dr. J. N. Bose , Curator in the " Division of Plants " of the United States National Museum at Washington , from which I make the following extract:\#151 ; " I have only recently returned from my third journey into Mexico , and have brought back a large quantity of plants , some of which you will certainly be interested in .
You will also be interested in what I have to tell you about Juliania .
For more than six years I have been at work off and on , at this genus , but for the lack of material A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
I have never published anything upon it , but each time have brought specimens , and this year was especially fortunate in collecting , near the type-locality , both male and female plants .
In looking up the subject since my return , I find that you have anticipated me and have published two very beautiful plates and some interesting notes .
I think you are perfectly right in making Pringle 's 6871 a new species , though I had provisionally and doubtingly referred it to J. Schl .
There are , however , more than two species in Mexico .
I have certainly four well-marked species , and possibly six .
With regard to the position of this genus , I think it must be regarded as the type of a new order .
I do not think it has any relationship to either Burseraceae or Anacardiaceae .
My conclusions in the field were , that it must be closely related to Juglandaceae , a relationship which you also suggest .
" In this communication , Dr. Rose gave a description of the floral structure , as he understood it , in the field .
He also most generously offered to send all his specimens and notes to me , leaving it to my judgment in what form publication should be effected .
I gladly accepted , and through the kindness of the Trustees of the Bentham Fund , Miss M. Smith made an elaborate series of drawings under my direction .
As there were still some structural points on which we were not quite clear , and Dr. Rose contemplated another visit to Mexico , it was decided to publish a description of the genus , as then understood , and brief diagnoses of the species .
Subsequently , Dr. Rose sent me a quantity of young female flowers in formalin , and then the previous result of much patient investigation was easily verified and established beyond dispute .
There was no longer any doubt about the fruit being a compound one .
After his return , in November , 1903 , from his fourth journey to Mexico , Dr. Rose sent me a further supply of specimens , supplemented by photographs and notes , which are utilised in the following pages .
Young fruit was received again during the summer of 1905 , but intermediate stages between the ovule and the mature seed are still wanting .
It has already been stated that no mention of a bush or a tree that could be identified with Juliania has been found in Hernandez or any of the other old authors , and the earliest mention found of the vernacular name , which is variously spelt , is in an " Ensayo para la Materia Medica Mexicana , " compiled in the year 1832 and published 1889 .
In this work are given the vernacular and botanical names of vegetable drugs , but under " Cuauchalala " it is stated that the genus had not been identified : " Aun no se ha podido reconocer su genero .
" Apparently only the bark is used , and this was procured from Matamoros ( Puebla ) and its neighbourhood .
In the ' Farmacopea Mexicana ' of 1896 the same vernacular name appears and the variant , Cuauchalalate , and it is doubtfully referred to subsamarata , Moc .
et Sess^ ( Dioscoreaceae ) , a name not found elsewhere .
Ramirez , a more recent writer , gives both spellings of the name , and doubtfully refers it to Dioscorea .
Dr. Dose , writing of J. aat Yautepec , in the State of Morelos , says :\#151 ; " The tree is well known to the Mexicans , who call it ' Cuauchalalate ' and use it as a medicine .
The bark is boiled and applied as a wash to external sores .
" Schiede was the only person , so far as we know , who wrote the name Guauchalalate .
It is noteworthy that J. glaucabears the same vernacular name in the State of J alisco .
Orthopterygium was originally discovered by Andrew Mathews in 1831 , and specimens collected by him exist at Kew and Paris .
The specimen at Paris is , in Some respects , better than the one at Kew , and through the kindness of Professor E. Bureau it was lent to me for examination .
This enabled me to ascertain that the shape and attachment of the ovule are quite different from what obtains in Jidiania .
About the same period John MacLean , a merchant at Lima , sent specimens to the late Sir William Hooker , bearing male flowers , probably from the same locality , and possibly also collected by Mathews , as he was at one time in the employment of MacLean .
The label accompanying the specimens bears the following note :\#151 ; " Huaucui of the natives .
Male flowers of dioecious shrub seldom seen with leaves , and always black as if burnt or blasted .
" Mathews describes it as a small tree .
It is a singular fact that the types of both genera were first collected about 75 years ago .
I should , perhaps , mention here that enlarged drawings , illustrative of the structure of the flowers and fruits of the two genera , were exhibited at the Royal Society 's Conversazione on May 13 , 1904 , under the names of Amphipterygium and Orthopterygium ( Programme , p. 12 ) .
These names , as well as the term Amphipterygiacece for the natural order , were taken up in various reports and records , but I now , for reasons given above , think it better to return to Jidiania , and to call the order Julianiaceae .
Jidiania was founded in honour of Julian Cervantes , a priest and son of the botanist , Vicente Cervantes .
Orthopterygium is derived from straight , and iTTepvyiov , a little wing , given in allusion to the ' straight , equal-sided , winged fruit , in contrast to the more or less oblique , unequal-sided fruit of Jidiania .
II .
General Description .
1 .
Juliania .
Juliania is exclusively Mexican , and all of the species are tortuously-branched , dioecious shrubs or small trees , usually of straggling and unsymmetrical growth , and the leaves are deciduous .
Exact dimensions of J. adstringens , as it grows near Yautepec , Morelos , were taken by Dr. Rose , and the largest individual seen A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
was about 7 5 m. high with a trunk just 75 cm .
in circumference , about 1'2 m. above the ba^e .
An idea of its aspect is afforded by the accompanying figures , from photographs taken by Dr. Rose .
But this species is usually shrubby and only 2*5-3 m. high .
J J Fig. 1.\#151 ; Juliania adstringens .
The largest tree seen in fruit .
t IG .
2 .
\#166 ; / .
adstringens .
A male tree in flower , over-run with vines .
The tiunk of the smaller individuals is smooth , brown or reddish , with here and there excrescences of bark , which in very old trees extend in long bands 2-3 cm .
thick .
This is the old dead bark , which Langlassis describes as being like that of the cork oak .
The living bark , when cut , exudes a milky , sticky juice , and in thicker parts is full of little nuggets of consolidated resin .
The ultimate branches are very brittle and of two kinds , barren and fertile , or leafy shoots and flowering shoots .
The latter elongate very little from year to year , and bear a dense cluster of leaves and flowers or leaves and fruits , intermixed .
Often , if not always , the leaves fall before the fruit , and sometimes the fruit persists until new leaves are produced .
I he annual elongation of barren shoots is much greater , but rarely as much as 30 cm .
, and their leaves are scattered along their whole length .
The leaves are alternate and unequally pinnately compound ; the number of leaflets varying in the different species from 3-11 .
Often the number of leaflets to a leaf varies from three to seven on the same branch , and frequently some of the leaves of the MR. W. BOTTING HEMSLEY ON THE JULIANIACE^E : ?
barren branches are reduced to a single leaflet ; that is in adstringens .
When pricked , the leaves exude a milky juice , which quickly forms a drop and falls .
The male flowers are borne in more or less branched catkins , and in size , colour , Fig. 4.\#151 ; Trunk of fig. 2 , showing the stems of Cissus , Hippocratea , and Pachyrhizus , climbers , which over-run the top .
and structure are very much like those of many species of oak .
The female flowers or inflorescences are very small and inconspicuous , and easily overlooked when quite young .
But the mature fruit is a relatively conspicuous object , especially as it is clustered , sometimes as many as 35-40 together , as shown in Plate 19 .
It is dry and pendulous , usually 3-5 cm .
long , the upper part being in the form of a depressed sphere , supported by a flattened , unequal-sided , wing-like stalk .
They are usually borne in pairs on a common stalk , sometimes singly , sometimes in threes .
Juliania amplifoliais very different from , both in habit and in the size of the leaves , reminding one of the genus Rhus .
Generally it is a taller , more slender tree , and the leaves are usually composed of 7-11 lanceolate , pointed leaflets , instead of three to five .
Fig. 5 shows trees bearing young leaves and a few old fruits .
A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
2 .
Orthopterygiu This is a dioecious shrub or small tree , native of Peru , still very imperfectly known .
It has imparipinnate leaves , usually composed of seven leaflets , about 2'5 cm .
long and strongly resembling those of the rosaceous Polylepis racemosa , Puiz and Pavon .
As in Juliania , the leaves and flowers are clustered at the tips of otherwise naked branches .
Nearly all the specimens seen consist of a tuft of leaves 7-10 cm .
across , at the very tips of smooth , slender branches 25-35 cm .
long .
Interspersed with the leaves are panicles of male flowers , at the most 25 cm .
long .
The individual flowers are smaller than those of , being only about 3 mm. across , and the somewhat rudimentary perianth is shorter than the stamens .
The fruit , of which there are only detached specimens at Kew , is narrow , equal-sided , straight , and 6-7*5 cm .
long .
A. Gray describes his material as consisting of " two leafless branches with nothing besides a terminal fascicle of immature , pendent , samaroid fruits , the largest 6*5 cm long and 1*2 cm .
wide .
" VOL. cxcrx.---B .
MR. W. BOTTING HEMSLEY ON THE JULIANIACE^E : III .
Geographical Distribution .
1 .
Julian So far as at present known , Juliania is confined to Mexico , and the various species occur in isolated localities between about 17 ' 40 ' and 23 ' N. lat. and 97 ' and 105c W. long .
, and at altitudes of about 1500 to 5500 feet .
Schiede 's original locality for J. adstringens is : San Francisco Tetecala , near Mecatlan , at Tlaquiltenango .
Tetecala is in the State of Morelos , and some distance below Yautepee , where Dr. Rose collected the same species .
He gives the following particulars of its occurrence there : u Juli adstringens is found along that branch of the Mexican Interoceanic railway running from the City of Mexico to Puente de Ixtla .
I have travelled over the whole line , but have never seen this tree except in one place , some three miles below Yautepec , in the State of Morelos .
The exact station is 163^ kilometres from the City of Mexico .
It appears to be restricted to a rather narrow belt and is nowhere very common .
The site is an old lava field now overgrown with grass and scattered shrubs and vines .
In this vegetation there is only one arborescent species of any size , and that is an Ipomoea ( / .
arborescens , Don ?
) , which has a trunk 2 feet or more through .
Among the small trees and shrubs noted were a second , Crescentia Acacia farnesiana , A. ambigua , various shrubby species of a tall Bursera aptera , B. jorullensis , Hcematoxylon boreale , Pithecolobium a species of Ceiba , a Celtis , and at least two species of Mimosa .
Among the herbs was a Houstonia , a Cassia , a Commelina , Agave collina , and an Ipomoea .
The individuals of Juliania are rarely grouped , but scattered singly in the general vegetation .
Some of the larger trees are over-run with vines , such as Hippocratea , and On some trees were found two or three species of Tillandsia .
" In another communication , Dr. Rose states that in the little town of Yautepec , trees are growing in the hedges , enclosing the small hamlets of the poor , and the trunks show that they have been frequentty called upon to furnish bark for some remedy .
There are numerous specimens in herbaria collected by other travellers in the same locality , which Mr. C. G. Pringle places at 4000 feet .
It has also been found on lava beds at Cuernavaca in the same State ; near Cuicatlan and Dominguilla , in the State of Oaxaca ; in the valley of Las Balsas , Michoacan or Guerrero , and at Manzanillo , State of Colima .
Apparently J. adstringens is at the present time the commonest species of the genus and the most widely spread .
Juliania mollis is only known from one locality in the Barranca de Guadalajara , North Jalisco , at an elevation of 4000 feet .
It was discovered by Mr. C. G. Pringle , hut nobody else who has visited the Barranca has succeeded in finding it , and only the male has been collected .
The question has arisen whether it is specifically distinct from J. adstringens .
Dr. Rose and I are of opinion that it is ; but further material is necessary to determine the point .
Dr. Rose is of opinion that it may A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
possibly be a variety of J. amplifolia which is reported from three , apparently different , localities in North Jalisco , namely , Barranca de Guadalajara ; road between Bolahos and Guadalajara , and near Tequila .
Data are insufficient to give an approximation of the size of the area over which this species is spread in this region .
Mr. Pringle was the discoverer , and Dr. Bose and his assistants have since twice visited the district and collected specimens .
Dr. Bose reports : " amplifolia is scattered along a barranca near Guadalajara , Jalisco , ranging from 3500 to 4300 feet altitude .
This barranca is one of the largest of the lateral barrancas which run down to the great barranca , through which the Bio Grande de Santiago flows .
Among trees and shrubs with which amplifolia is associated are Ficus Pringlei , Heliocarpus reticulata , and one or two species of " In this same barranca was collected the type of Juliania mollis , and although Mr. Pringle , who collected the original specimens , took me to the group of trees from which he thought his specimens were obtained , I failed to find anything answering to it .
" J.amplifolia was also found by Dr. Bose in the extreme south of the State ot Durango.* Finally , J. glauca , the fourth species of the genus , and a very distinct one , is only represented in herbaria by imperfect specimens in fruit from Jilotlan , in the extreme south of the State of Jalisco .
Lumholtz , the collector , places Jilotlan in the neighbouring State of Michoacan , and he gives cuachalalate as the vernacular name ofsfchis species .
The accompanying sketch map ( p. 180 ) is intended to show the number and approximate positions of all the known stations for Juliania .
2 .
Orthopterygium .
The habitat of the Peruvian Orthopterygium Huaucui is about 2000 miles distant from the nearest locality of any species of Juliania .
The exact position of the only place in which it has been found cannot be given , but it is in the Province of Canta , in the Department of Lima , between 11 ' and 12 ' S. lat. Mathew 's label runs : " Small tree , covering the sides of the base of the Cuesta of Purruchuca , Province of Canta , Peru , April , 1831 .
" Maclean gives no locality on his label , but it is presumably the same .
Lima , in the handwriting of Sir William Hooker , appears on the sheet , but that refers rather to the department than the city .
I he specimen collected by the botanists of the United States Exploring Expedition is from the " vicinity of Yanga , Peru , " which A. Gray states is in the same district as * Various fungi and lichens occur on the leaves and bark , including a new P. Ricker .
" Maculae subcirculares , pallidae fuscae , 2-8 mm. diam. , saepe confluentes , Margin prominulente fusco-rubro ; perithecia sparsa , atra , epiphylla , 55-80 g diam. ; sporae oblongae , utrinque acutae , subinde inaequilaterales hyalinae , biguttulatae 2'5-3 x 8-10 g. In foliis A amplifolii , Hemsl .
et Rose .
' MR. W. BOTTING HEMSLEY ON THE JULIANIACE^E : Purrudhuca .
Although ajDparently plentiful where Mathews collected it , Orthopterygium must be rare , or very local , -for we have not found any other record of it , and Dr. A. Engler who has monographed the Burseraceae and Anacardiaceae , orders in which imperfect specimens might have been placed , has not found any specimen in the numerous herbaria he has consulted .
p/ G U d ir r a n a o F Distrito ution of Jali mi a 1 .
J. adsto mgens .
J. amj lifolia 2 .
J.moLlis uca 1Y .
External Morphology .
The Seed .
The seed of Orthopterygium is unknown .
Of Juliania the seeds of three out of the four species are known .
They are circular or oblong , compressed bodies , 6-10 mm. long , with a smooth , thin testa , and the embryo fills the whole cavity .
Embryo horizontal ; radicle elongated , ascending , and applied to the edges of the A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
thin , plano-convex , more or less oblique , sometimes obscurely lobed , cotyledons , which are epigseous in germination .
The Leaves .
The habit and aspect of the members of the Julianiacese are briefly described under another heading , p. 174 , and it has already been pointed out that the deciduous leaves are imparipinnate and composed of from 3 to 11 leaflets .
Frequently , too , some of the leaves on the barren branches , and probably the first leaves of the seedlings , are simple or reduced to one leaflet .
There are four fairly distinct types of foliage in the order , counterparts of which exist in the Anacardiacese , and especially in the genus Rlius .
Very similar leaves are also characteristic of the Juglandacese .
The leaflets of Juliania ad string ens range from 3 to 7 , and are very variable in shape , but they are mostly broadest above the middle , often almost truncate , coarsely and irregularly toothed and densely hairy when young .
The leaflets of J. mollis are not very different , but they are broadest in or below the middle , and densely tomentose on both surfaces .
In J. amplifolia the leaves are usually composed of 7 to 11 leaflets , of almost uniform shape in all the specimens under observation .
They are lanceolate , broadest near the base , tapering gradually upwards into a very acute tip , and regularly serrate nearly throughout their whole length .
At first they are clothed with soft hairs , becoming glabrous with age , on the upper surface , at least .
The leaves are very similar to small leaves of Rhus typhina .
J. glauea has glabrous or soon glabrescent leaves , glaucous on the under surface .
The fully developed leaves of all the species of Juliania are at least 15 cm .
long , and those of J. amplifoliasometimes as much as 30 cm .
long , whilst those of Orthopterygium are of a smaller type , and only 5-7 cm .
long .
They are almost invariably composed of seven leaflets , about 2'5 cm .
long .
Male Inflorescence .
The male and female flowers are borne by different trees , which are otherwise indistinguishable .
The male inflorescence is a more or less densely branched panicle , from 2'5 cm .
to 15 cm .
long , with hairy , weak , thread-like branches and pedicels ; the ultimate branches and pedicels irregularly clustered on the secondary branches of the larger inflorescences of Juliania .
They are pendulous from the axils of the densely clustered leaves at the tips of the branches .
Male Flowers .
The male flowers are very numerous , small , green or yellow-green , consisting of a single , regular , very thin , hairy perianth , divided nearly to the base into four to nine narrow , equal segments , and as many stamens alternating with them .
Individual flowers are only 3-5 mm. in diameter .
The anthers are two-celled , basifixed , about as long as the filaments , and they dehisce by longitudinal slits .
Pollen grains very small , globose .
Rudimentary pistil none .
The male inflorescence and flowers , therefore , present no peculiar features or characteristics .
Female Inflorescence .
In the female inflorescence and flowers , on the other hand , there are structural peculiarities on which the order and genera are founded .
The female inflorescences at the flowering stage are very inconspicuous objects and easily overlooked .
They are of the same colour as the crowded hairy petioles of the simultaneously developing leaves , in the axils of which they are closely seated and almost hidden .
Taken singly they are soft , hairy bodies , including the exserted styles , about 1 *8-2 cm .
long , flattened upwards through three-quarters or more of their length , then constricted , with a globose expansion above .
The flattened part is the pedicel , and the globose expansion is the involucre in which the flowers are seated .
It is surmounted by , usually , five very small lobes or teeth , which give it the appearance of an ordinary calyx , and it contains three ( Orthopterygium ) or four ( )collateral flowers .
The two lateral are apparently always imperfect ; but only unripe fruits are known of the former .
In Juliania the relatively large trifid styles of the two central flowers are usually fully developed and exserted from the narrow mouth of the involucre .
Sometimes only one is perfect and exserted , and then the whole body might easily be mistaken for a flower .
Female Flowers .
The female flowers are destitute of perianth , consisting , therefore , of pistil only , and they are free from each other , but attached by their outer edges to the walls of the involucre .
Each contains a solitary ovule .
The ovary and style are hairy all over , except the stigmatic surface .
The Ovule .
The ovule of Juliania is a very remarkable one , and without a parallel , probably , in the whole vegetable kingdom .
By ovule is here meant the entire structure occupying the cell of the ovary , although the part in which the embryo originates is small in relation to the whole body .
As explained below , the rest of the body is regarded as an appendiculate funicle , but the funicle is , in the opinion , 1 believe , of most botanists , as much a part of the ovule as the caudicle is a part of the pollinium , though an ovule is complete , of course , without any obviously differentiated funicle .
In the early flowering stage , but after the styles have grown out from the involucre , the ovule of Juliania is a thin , flat body , about 2 mm. in its greater diameter .
It is attached to the base of the cell of the ovary , which , however , is sometimes oblique , as shown in Plate 19 , fig. 3 .
It is somewhat variable in shape and structure , even in the same species , and in the A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
same stage ; but the ordinary condition , when fully grown , so far as my investigations go , is a bilateral , cordate body , more or less unsymmetrical in outline , with two unequal , incurved lobes , whose tips are opposite and contiguous to each other , as in fig. 9 .
But it is possible that these are unfertilised ovules , though they have attained the length and diameter of a ripe seed , and it is also probable that figs. 6 and 7 represent normal conditions of the ovule at different stages .
However , this is only a supposition , suggested by the fact that the condition represented by fig. 9 occurs in almost fully developed infrutescences of two different species .
Opposed to this is the fact that the embryo is not differentiated until late in the development of the infrutescence .
Now , whatever the shape of the ovular body be , the two opposed , more or less equally developed lobes are present , and a vascular strand runs from the attachment of the ovale , at the base of the cell up and into one of these lobes ; and in this lobe the embryo is formed .
The question arises , what is the nature and function of the rest of the body ?
The answer that suggests itself , judging from what takes place in the development of the seed , is that it is a funicle with an appendage\#151 ; a appendiculatus .
The alternative is a placenta ; but a placenta does not disappear during the development of the seeds ; it usually increases in volume , as in the Myrsinacese , where the seeds are embedded in a fleshy placenta .
Nearly the whole Fig. 6.\#151 ; An Enlarged Ovule of Juliania adstringens in the early-flowering stage , but after the exsertion of the styles from the involucre .
Natural size of ovule at this stage , about 2 mm. in its greatest diameter .
Female inflorescence , at this stage , including the exserted styles and the flattened pedicel , about 2 cm .
long ; involucral part about 4 mm. in diameter .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; An Enlarged Ovule of the same Species from a nearly full-grown infrutescence , 4 cm .
long ; involucral part at this stage about 8 mm. in its greatest diameter .
Ovule about 6 mm. Fig. 8.\#151 ; The same Ovule , the embryoniferous lobe withdrawn from the socket or overlapping lobe .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; An Enlarged Ovule of J. amplifolia , from a young infrutescence , about 6 cm .
long ; involucral part about 12 mm. in its greatest diameter .
Natural size of ovule at this stage about 8 mm. in its greatest diameter .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; An Enlarged Ovule of the same Species , showing the bilamellate appendage of the funicle in which the embryonal part was enfolded .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Another Ovule of the same Species , in which the slightly unequally bilateral body is folded longitudinally .
Natural size of ovule at this stage about 5 mm. long .
MR. W. BOTTING HEMSLEY ON THE JULIANIACE^l : of the ovule of Juliania , except the lobe in which the embryo is formed , breaks up and is absorbed during the growth of the seed , and the funicle is reduced to a narrow , flattened strand , more or less free from the body of the seed .
With regard to the variation observed in the ovular bodies of , some of them are very curious and perhaps abnormal ; others are merely different stages of development , as shown in the plates illustrating this paper .
As mentioned above , we believe that fig. 6 is the normal shape of the ovule in a very young condition\#151 ; at least of J. adstringens , the only species of which we have seen young female flowers .
Figs. 7 and 8 represent a stage in which the two opposite lobes are as nozzle and socket to each other , the nozzle being the embryoniferous lobe .
As already stated , we have not found any other ovule resembling that of Jidiania ; but in many of the Anacardiacese there is a considerable development of the funicle , though it is always unilateral .
For example , Euroscliinus verrucosus is figured by Engler as having a long , thick funicle , with an elbow-like expansion on the dorsal part near the base .
Had the expansion been on the ventral part , there would have been a remote resemblance to Juliania .
In some of the Araceae , too , the funicle is very large in proportion to the embryonal part of the ovule ; this is conspicuously exemplified in Brachyspatha variabilis , Schott .
Here an external resemblance is indisputable , but there the analogy ends , the funicular growth being unilateral and permanent .
( See figs. 12 and 13 .
) The Fruit of Juliania .
The fruits are known of three species of this genus , and they are very similar in appearance , though sufficiently different to be distinguishable from each other .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; An enlarged Ovule of Brachyspatha variabilis , showing the highly developed funicle .
After Schott .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; An enlarged Longitudinal Section of an Ovary of , showing the ovule , enlarged .
After Engler .
Fig. 14.\#151 ; Fruit of Juliania glauca\#151 ; natural size .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Fruit of Platypodium eleyans , to show the very close external resemblance to Juliania .
A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
Samaroid in form , they strongly resemble the samaroid pods of certain genera of Leguminosae , especially those of Platypodium and both tropical American genera of trees having pinnate leaves .
At a short distance the resemblance must be delusive .
But none of these inhabit exactly the same district .
The ripe , exceedingly hard nuts of Julianiaare only freed by decay of the tissues of the involucre , and germination takes place by the protrusion of the radicle through the apex from which the style has disappeared , and the ultimate withdrawal of the cotyledons and their appearance above ground .
The Fruit of Orthopterygium .
Bipe fruit unknown , but , including the flattened pedicel , it is evidently narrow , equal sided , and nearly the same width throughout ( see Plate 24 ) .
Y. Microscopic Structure of the Ovule of Juliania ( By L. A. Boodle , F.L.S. ) The structure of the ovule was examined chiefly by means of sections , but entire ovules were also viewed as transparent objects , after clearing in oil of cloves .
A number of young inflorescences were embedded in paraffin and cut by the microtome , so that the ovule was seen in position ; in other cases the ovule was removed from the ovary and cut by hand .
The youngest ovaries were from dried material , and were used for microtome sections , after soaking out in boiling water .
The expansion of the tissues , however , was found to be incomplete , the preparations being less satisfactory than in the later stages , shown by material which had been preserved in a weak solution of formalin .
The form and general structure of the ovule at the fertilisation-stage are as follows :\#151 ; 1The ovule is flattened , and its shape varies considerably , but is often Fig. 16 .
Fig. 17 .
Fig. 16.\#151 ; Ovule at the Fertilisation-stage , cleared in oil of cloves and seen in median optical section .
v.b. , vascular bundle ; / .
, funicle ; ap .
, appendage of funicle .
For explanation of a and b , see text , x 23 .
Fig. 17.\#151 ; Fart of same Specimen , enlarged .
ch .
, chalaza ; nucellus ; i. , integument ; micropyle .
x 46 .
VOL. CXCIX.\#151 ; B. between orbicular and reniform .
The dimensions may be given roughly as 2 mm. for the greatest diameter , and ^ mm. for the thickness .
The nucellus and integument form a very small part of the ovule , and lie at the opposite side from the attachment to the placenta ( fig. 16 ) , i.e. , in the region of the sinus when the ovule is reniform .
The vascular bundle ( fig. 16 , after passing from the placenta into the ovule , runs near one margin , following the outline of the ovule until it reaches the chalaza ( fig. 17 , ch .
) , where it expands and branches , as will be described below .
The long axis of the nucellus ( fig. 17 , is usually oblique , but it may be nearly vertical or nearly horizontal .
The chalaza occupies the greater part of the length of the nucellus on the upper side ( figs. 17 and 19 ) when seen in a median section of the ovule , but in the other direction it is narrower , especially towards the free end of the ovule ; consequently , in an oblique section one may see the nucellus attached by a small base in that region .
The micropyle ( fig. 17 , m. ) is directed downwards .
From the relative positions of the chalaza , the micropyle and the vascular bundle , the ovule should be described as hemianatropous .
As stated above , the axis of the nucellus varies in direction , but the relative positions of the chalaza and micropyle remain the same ; hence the ovule is never truly anatropous .
There is a single integument ( fig. 17 , On one side of the micropyle in the median plane it is not free ( on the right in fig. 16 ) , and its limits are consequently indefinite .
The greater part of the ovule at this stage must be regarded as having been formed by enlargement of the funicle , and the portion of the ovule lying on the left in fig. 16 , and hounded by the dotted line , may be described as the appendage of the funicle .
It consists of a mass of parenchymatous tissue with no vascular bundles .
The rough arbitrary limit between the funicle proper ( fig. 16 , j6 ) and its appendage ( ap .
) , given by the dotted line , was chosen in its upper part on account of the arrangement of the superficial cells of the ovule .
They form parallel curved rows , running from the region at b to the upper part of the appendage at and this seems to indicate that marked local growth had taken place in this region and direction .
In the upper part of the appendage is a furrow , in which the nucellar portion of the ovule is partially embedded , so that the micropyle is quite hidden when the ovule is examined externally .
In the transparent preparation of the ovule ( fig. 16 ) the line running across the nucellus is the edge of the upper flap of tissue belonging to the appendage and lying over the furrow , the nucellus being seen through this tissue .
In a vertical section cut at right angles to the median plane and passing through the micropyle , the vascular bundle ( fig. 18 , is seen to have broadened into the form of a crescent , so as to sheathe the chalaza .
This expansion of the bundle is followed acropetally by branching into a number of bundles , which supply the integument .
One or two branches are also given off by the vascular bundle before it reaches the chalaza .
They pass directly down into the neighbourhood of the A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
micropyle , where the tissue is presumably integumental .
Portions ol these bundles ( shaded ) are seen in fig. 19 on the right , and in fig. 18 at The section shown in fig. 19 is median , and , therefore , similar to the optical section in fig. 17 ; the main vascular bundle is seen running along the chalaza and curving round for a short distance into the integument .
Fig. 18 .
Fig. 19 .
Fig. 20 .
Fig. 18.\#151 ; Vertical Section through Nucellar Portion of Ovule , cut at right angles to the median plane , and passing through the micropyle .
v.b. vascular bundle ; , portion of a branch of the vascular bundle , x 46 .
Fig. 19.\#151 ; Median Section through Nucellar Region of a slightly older Ovule , showing the vascular tissue ( shaded ) and the position of the embryo-sac ( .
) .
x 46 .
Fig. 20.\#151 ; Oblique , but nearly Horizontal Section , cut at right angles to the median plane , in the same region of the ovule .
v.b. , vascular bundles in chalazal region ; nucellus .
x 46 .
The main vascular bundle , in passing through the chalazal region , branches pinnately , and the separate branches run for some distance in the integument .
This , of course , cannot be seen in median sections , like figs. 16 , 17 , and 19 , but in fig. 20 , which is cut at right angles to the median plane , the upper part of the section passes through the chalazal region , and shows five vascular bundles ( v.b. ) derived from the original bundle by branching .
The youngest ovule examined was S mm. in its greatest diameter .
At this stage the appendage ( fig. 21 , a)of the funicle is still quite small , and the nucellus ( nu .
) is vertical .
The diagram is from a series of microtome sections , in which the tissues were rather contracted , so the form of the ovule cannot be taken as perfectly accurate .
The contents of the embryo-sac were usually contracted or otherwise not in very good condition , hence a detailed description cannot be given .
There appeared to be a normal egg-apparatus of three cells , and a conspicuous nucleus , presumably derived from the fusion of the polar nuclei , was seen in the middle of the embryo-sac .
An early stage of endosperm-formation was also seen in two or three cases , numerous free nuclei being scattered in the parietal layer of protoplasm .
It is therefore probable that there is no anomaly , except perhaps in the antipodal cells , of which more than three appeared to be present at a rather late stage .
188 MR. W. ROTTING HEMSLEY ON THE JULIANIACE^E : The oldest ovule examined was about 6 mm. in its longest diameter , and roughly reniform , its general structure being much as in fig. 16 .
A section through the nucellar region of this ovule is shown in fig. 22 .
A young embryo ( e. ) is present , the Fig. 21 .
Fig. 21.\#151 ; Median Section of young Ovule , v.b. , vascular bundle ; a. , appendage ; integument ; nu .
, nucellus .
x 90 .
Fig. 22.\#151 ; Section through Nucellar Region of old Ovule , i. , integument ; nucellus ; e.s. , embryo-sac ; e. , embryo , x 18 .
Fig. 23.\#151 ; Portion of same Section , to show the differentiation of the innermost layer of the integument .
i. , integument ; n. , nucellus ; w. , wall of embryo-sac ; endosperm , x 390 .
nucellus ( n. ) has not yet been absorbed , and the embryo-sac ( e.s. ) is filled with endosperm , which is not indicated in the diagram .
The more central part of the endosperm consists of very delicate tissue .
A portion of the same section , magnified to show the structure of the integument , etc. , is represented in fig. 23 .
The cell-contents in the integument , nucellus , and endosperm ( i. , n. , and are omitted , except in the innermost layer of the integument , in which the cells have an epithelial character .
VI .
Descriptio ordinis Julianiace , \#174 ; , Hemsley .
( Olim Amphipterygiaceae , Hemsley et Rose .
) Flores dioici , parvi , inconspicui , hirsuti , cum foliis deciduis cosetanei , masculi a femineis diversissimi .
Flores masculi iis Quercus sectionis Lepidobalani specierum nonnullarum simillimi , in amenta vel racemos ramosos vel interdum simplices axillares dispositi , ramulis pedicellisque capillaribus pubescentibus .
Periantkium simplex , tenuissimum , extus parce pilosum , 3-9-partitum , vel interdum imperfectum , segmentis linearibus inter se sequalibus .
Stamina tot quot perianthii segmenta , iisque alterna ; filamenta brevia , filiformia ; antherse oblongse , biloculares , pilis longiusculis parce vestitse , rimis longitudinalibus late dehiscentes .
grana J. adstringentis globosa , circiter 35p diametro , minutissime reticulata .
Gynoecii nullum .
Flores femineiterni vel quaterni , involucro fere clauso inclusi , collaterales , 2 laterales ssepius ( an semper ?
) imperfecti , sessiles , inter se liberi , marginibus involucro adnati .
Involucra juvenilia erecta , cum pedicelljs continua per anfhesin inconspicua , lineari ' A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
lanceolata , compressa , pubescentia , 15 ad 20 mm. longa , 2 ad 3 mm. lata , apice 3-5-dentata , in pedunculis axillaribus primum brevissimis saepius bina , vel nunc solitaria nunc terna , basi unibracteata , ante embryonis evolutionem valde aucta .
Perianthium nullum .
Stammodia nulla .
Ovarium cartilagineum , puberulum , uniloculare , loculo angustissimo uniovulato ; stylus conspicuus , alte tripartitus , ex involucri orificio exsertus ; rami spathulati , recurvi , apice emarginati , intus canali-culati , laeves , glabri , extus pubescentes ; florum lateralium styli saepissime imperfecti , inclusi vel omnino deficientes .
Ovulum Julianice solitarium , hemianatropum integu-mento unico , in funiculo insigniter appendiculato a loculi basi ascendente ; funiculus ( an placenta ?
) ovuli novelli hippocrepiformis vel cordatus , complanatus , loculo conformis , 2 ad 3 mm. latus , deinde oblongus , apice aequaliter vel inaequaliter bilobatus ( an semper ?
) , lobo ovulifero nervo margini approximato percurso , altero sterili enervi forma variabili in latere cum ovulo contiguo diverse excavato et ovulum magis minusve recipiente demum omnino evanascente ; ovuli evolutio post embryonis initiam ad maturitatem nondum rite observata .
Ovulum imperfect cognitum sed ei Julianice persimile videtur , ab eo tamen insertione laterali recedit ; funiculus supra basin cupulatim dilatatus , abhinc excavatus , bilamellatus et ovulum pendulum recipiens .
Fructuscompositus , siccus , indehiscens , cum pedicello dilatato complanato tenui 4 ad 7 cm .
longus , apice incrassatus , subglobosus , laevis , e pedunculo demum elongato pendulus ; ala tenuis , e basi cuneata sensim oblique vel aequilateraliter dilatata .
Nuces fere orbiculares , eomplanatae , biconvexae , inter se liberae , involucri parietibus adnatae ; pericarpium sclerenchymaticum , durissimum , extus hirsutum .
Semen J ulianice solitarium , e funiculo basilari suspensum , exalbu-minosum , circiter 6 mm. diametro maximo , inappendiculatum , reniforme vel rotunda-tum ; testa tenuis , laevis .
Embryo horizontalis , circiter 7 mm. longus ; radicula elongata , adscendens , cotyledonibus plano-convexis obliquis accumbens ; cotyledones in germina-tione epigaeae .
Arbusculae et frutices Americani , Mexici et Peruviae incolae , dioici , x'esiniferi , adspectu Burseroe specierum nonnullarum , tortuoso-ramosi .
Folia decidua , alterna , exstipulata , imparipinnata , ad apices ramulorum hornotinorum floriferorum conferta , vel in ramis sterilibus sparsa interdumque unifoliolata ; foliola opposita , exstipellata , diverse dentata .
Flores inconspicui , virides , masculi racemoso-paniculati , feminei plures in receptaculis clausis aggregati .
Fructus compositus , samaroideus , indehiscens.\#151 ; Genera 2 .
Ordo naturalis nulli arete affinis .
Arbusculae et frutices habitu foliisque et Anacarcliaceis nonnullis similes , floribus ad Cupuliferares magis accedentes .
Insuper ductis resiniferis , ovulo , semine , embryoneque arete accedit ; flores masculi cum illis Quercus omnino convenientes ; flores feminei more Castaneae involucro clauso inclusi ; denique styli ut in late lobulati .
Juliania , Schl .
, in ' Linnaea/ vol. 17 ( 1843 ) , p. 746 .
Schl .
, in op .
cit. , p. 636 ) .
Folia matura saepius ampla .
Inflorescentia mascula multiramosa , pendula .
Inflorescentiae femineae saepius binae vel ternae , pedunculo communi demum plus minusve elongato .
Florum musculinorum perianthium bene evolutum , 5-8-partitum , segmentis stamina excedentibus .
Florum femineorum involucrum ssepius ( an semper ?
) 4-florum , floribus 2 lateralibus ssepius ( an semper ?
) abortientibus ; pedicelli sursum sensim dilatati , ssepius obliqui , insequilaterales , circiter ter longiores quam lati .
Styli rami ex involucri orificio longe exserti .
Semen in loculi fundo affixum .
Species quatuor , Mexici centralis et australis incolrn .
1 .
J. adstringens , Schl .
, in op.sup .
cit. , p. 746 .
Hemsley , in 'Hook .
Ic .
PI./ t. 2723 .
Foliola ssepius 5 vel 7 , obovata vel oblanceolata , supra medium latiora .
Amphiptcrygium adstringens , Schiede ex Schl .
, loc. cit. , p. 746 , Hemsley \amp ; Pose , in 'Ann .
Bot. , ' vol. 17 , p. 444.\#151 ; Platens 1 , 2 , \amp ; 5 .
2 .
J. mollis , Hemsley , in 'Hook .
Ic .
PI./ t. 2722 .
Foliola 3 vel 5 , oblonga vel ovato-oblonga , crassa , omnino velutino-tomentosa , albida .
Amphiptcrygium Hemsley \amp ; Rose , loc. cit. , p. 444 .
3 .
J. amplifolia , Hemsley \amp ; Rose , in 'Ann .
Bot./ vol. 17 , p. 444 .
Foliola ssepius 7 vel 9 , lanceolata , acuminata , 2|\#151 ; 4 poll , longa , infra medium latiora .
amplifolium , Hemsley \amp ; Rose , loc. cit.\#151 ; Plates 3 , 4 , \amp ; 5 .
4 .
J. glauca , Hemsley \amp ; Rose , loc. cit. , p. 444 .
Foliola 3 vel 5 , undique glabra , subtus glauca , petiolo communi gracillimo .
Amphiptcrygium Hemsley \amp ; Rose , loc. cit.\#151 ; Plate 6 .
Orthopterygium , Hemsley , genus novum .
Folia matura parva .
Inflorescentia mascula parva , erecta , Inflorescentia feminea solitaria , pedicello fere ad basin sequaliter complanato .
Florum mascidorum perianthium ssepius 4-partitum , interdum imperfectum , segmentis quam staminibus brevioribus .
Florum femineorum involucrum , ut videtur , 3-florum , floribus 2-lateralibus abortientibus ; pedicelli recti , sequilaterales , angusti , semper plus quam sexies longiores quam lati .
Styli breviter ( ?
) exserti .
Semen ad loculi latus affixum .
Species unica , Peru vise occidentalis incola .
0 .
Huaucui , Hemsley .
Juliania Huaucui , A. Gray , in 'Bot .
U.S. Expl .
Exped./ vol. 1 , p. 371 .
Amphiptcrygium Huaucui , Hemsley \amp ; Rose , in ' Ann. Bot./ vol. 17 , p. 445.\#151 ; Plate 7 .
VII .
The Affinities of the Julianiace^e .
During the six years that I have had this small group under observation , I have had opportunities of showing the specimens and drawings to many of the leading botanists of the world , and all agree who have seen them that it deserves to rank as an independent order .
That being so , the question of its position arises , but this is a point not so easily settled in a linear arrangement .
Taking the morphological characters seriatim , it is evident that the closest relationships are with the Anacardiacese and Cupuliferse .
The absolute separation of the sexes , and the very great diversity of the floral structure of the sexes , associated with pinnate leaves , offers a combination of characters probably without a parallel .
A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
Beginning with the foliage , the Julianiaceae have alternate , exstipulate , impari-pinnate leaves in common with at least eight different ligneous orders , but here the affinity , or rather resemblance , ends , so far as six of them are concerned , and the comparisons need be carried no further .
There remain the Anacardiaceae and Juglandaceae , both of which are also resiniferous , both have unisexual flowers with reduced envelopes , at least as to some of their members , and both have solitary , exalbuminous seeds .
Other points of resemblance or similarity in the Juglandaceae are the dissimilar male and female flowers , the broad stigmatic lobes of the style , and the single-coated ovules .
Juglctnshas also a funicle of unusual development .
But the characters in common of the Julianiaceae and the Juglandaceae cannot be regarded as constituting a close affinity .
In many respects there is a nearer relationship to the Anacardiaceae .
The anatomical characters of the two orders are very much alike ; but as Dr. F. E. Fritsch will describe and discuss the anatomy in a separate paper , it is unnecessary to enter into particulars here .
In describing the ovule of the Julianiaceae at p. 184 , it is stated that the nearest approach we have found to the singular funicular development is in the Anacardiaceae , but the resemblance is remote and the ovules of the latter are double-coated .
Coming to the seed and the embryo , however , the resemblance is complete , and apart from the slight obliquity of the cotyledons of Juliania , the description of the seed and embryo of or Rhus would do equally well for Juliania .
With this the affinities to the Anacardiaceae are exhausted , and they are not sufficiently strong , in my opinion , to justify the juxtaposition of the two orders .
The next comparison is with the Cupuliferae , taking the order as limited by Bentham and Hooker .
There is nothing in the secretions nor in the foliage to warrant an approximation of the two orders , and in habit of growth the Julianiaceae are very different .
But divergences as great , or greater , exist between closely associated orders , and even between genera referred to the same order ; and when we come to the inflorescence and flowers , affinities are evident ; that is if affinities are deducible from similarities in structure .
The male inflorescence , the male flowers and the pollen of Juliania are so near in texture , structure and form to the same parts in certain species of oak that , detached , they might be referred to the genus Quercus .
In fact , there is much greater dissimilarity in the male inflorescences and flowers of different species of Quercus than there is between those of Juliania and those species of Quercus which have a flaccid male inflorescence and stamens alternating with the segments of the perianth .
The female inflorescence and the female flowers of Juliania are not represented by exact counterparts in the Cupuliferae , but the analogies are perhaps greater than with any other order .
Several female flowers , in a closed involucre , is a characteristic of Juliania , of Fagus , Castanea and Casta , In all three of the genera of the Cupuliferae named the involucre dehisces regularly or irregularly , and the nuts fall MR. W. ROTTING HEMSLlY ON THE JULIANIACE^E : out .
In Julianiathe involucre is indehiscent , and the flattened nuts are adnate by their edges to the inner wall of the involucre , and they have a very hard , relatively thick , sclerenchymatous pericarp .
Going back to the flowers , the male of Juliania has a perianth ; the female none .
In Corylusthe conditions are reversed ; in Betula neither has an obvious perianth ; in Quercus the flowers of both sexes are furnished with a perianth .
All of the Cupuliferae have an ovary which is more than one-celied , and usually there are three cells , and mostly more than one ovule in each cell , though each nut is usually only one-seeded .
The ovaries of Juliania and of Orthopterygium invariably cq^tain only one ovule .
The flowers and nuts of Castanea are collateral , as in Juliania .
The seeds of both Juliania and the Cupuliferae are exalbuminous , and the cotyledons are epigaeous in germination .
Weighing the characters of the reproductive organs in which there is agreement or similarity between the Julianiaceae and the Anacardiaceae , and those in which there is agreement or similarity between the Julianiaceae and the Cupuliferae , the latter , in my estimation , preponderate ; and I cannot suggest a more natural position for the Julianiaceae than between the Juglandaceae and the Cupuliferae .
In this view7 I am supported by my colleague , Dr. 0 .
Stapf .
On the other hand , if anatomical characters , coupled with the nature of the secretions , are to be credited with superior claims in classification , then the Julianiaceae would have to be placed next to the Anacardiaceae .
VIII .
Concluding Remarks .
1 have received so much help in elucidating this singular group of plants , both from my immediate colleagues and other botanists , that I feel that I cannot conclude without naming those to whom I am more especially indebted .
I have already referred to the generous act by which Dr. J. N. Rose placed all his material at my disposal , and I have reproduced his field notes in full or with slight modifications to bring them in harmony with my plan of dealing with the materials .
The original idea was to work jointly , and diagnoses of the species were published under both names , though I am responsible for their final form .
Apart from Dr. Rose 's notes , and Mr. Boodle 's description of the ovule , I am also responsible for the whole of the present paper , but I have reasons for believing that Dr. Rose is now in agreement with me on all points of importance .
Although I am primarily indebted to Dr. Rose for the loan of the specimens belonging to the United States National Museum at Washington , my thanks are also due and offered to Mr. S. P. Langley , Secretary to the Smithsonian Institution , who kindly sanctioned their being sent to Kew .
In the next place , I should like to record my gratitude to the Trustees of the Bentham Fund for the advancement of Botany , for defraying the cost of the drawings , A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
So excellently executed by Miss M. Smith , whose skill and patience in floral dissection is unsurpassed .
Her drawings include sketches of all the specimens lent by the United States National Museum , besides numerous details not reproduced in the accompanying plates .
All these drawings are preserved at Kew .
Of my colleagues , I am more especially indebted to Dr. O. Stapf , for active help and suggestions during the whole time I have been engaged in these investigations ; to Mr. G. Massee , for drawings of the pollen ; and to Mr. L. A. Boodle , who furnished the drawings and descriptions of the young embryo , reproduced at p. 185 .
I also wish to record my thanks to Professor Ed. Bureau and Mr. Jules Poisson , of Paris , and Professor Dr. A. Engler , of Berlin , for the loan of specimens ; and to Dr. B. Pilger , of Berlin ; to Dr. A. Zahlbruckner , of Vienna , and Dr. C. Mez , of Halle , for their endeavours to find Schiede 's original specimens .
Dr. Bose reminds me , too , that we owe much to Mr. C. G. Pringle 's exertions .
He has collected copious material , and he first discovered Juliania ' mollis and J. amplifolia .
It was originally intended to present the results of Dr. Fritsch 's anatomical investigations as a supplement to this paper ; but having recently received further material in spirit , he wishes to go over some of his work again .
IX .
Bibliography .
Baillon , H. ' Histoire des Plants , ' vol. 5 ( 1874 ) , p. 321 .
Bentham , G. , and Hooker , J. D. 'Genera Plantarum , ' vol. 1 ( 1862 ) , p. 428 , and vol. 3 , p. 402 .
Cervantes , V. " Ensayo a la Materia Medica Vegetal de Mexico , " in ' El Estudio , ' Folletin 1 ( 1889 ) .
Engler , A. In De Candolle 's ' Monographic Phanerogamarum , ' vol. 4 ( 1883 ) , p. 500 , t. 11 , f. 37 .
'Ensayo para la Materia Medica Mexicana . . .
1832 .
' Edicion de Estudio , Folletin 2 ( 1889 ) , p. 15 .
' Farmacopea Mexicana , ' ed. 3 ( 1896 ) , p. 62 .
Gray , A. ' Botany of the United States ( Wilkes 's ) Exploring Expedition,5 vol. 1 ( 1854 ) , p. 371 .
Harms , H. In Engler , A. , and Prantl , K. : " Die Nattirlichen Pflanzenfamilien , " ' Nachtrage , ' vol. 1 ( 1897 ) , p. 335 .
Hemsley , W. Botting .
In Hooker 's 'leones Plantarum , ' vol. 28 ( 1901 ) , tt .
2722 et 2723 .
Idem .
In Salvin and Godman : " Biologia Centrali-Americana , " { Botany , ' vol. 1 ( 1880 ) , p. 223 .
Hemsley , W. Botting , and Bose , J. N. In 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 17 ( 1903 ) , pp. 443-446 .
VOL. CXCIX.--B .
2 C MR. W. BOTTING HEMSLEY ON THE JULIANIACE^ : Hernandez , Francisco .
' Cuatro Libros de la Naturaleza y Yirtudes de las Plantas y Animales que 6stan recevidos en el uso de Medecina en la Nueva Espana , ' 1615 .
( Francisco Ximenez .
) Idem .
'Rerum Medicarum Novae Hispanise Thesaurus , ' 1651 .
Numerous illustrations .
Idem .
' Opera quum edita turn inedita ( De Historia Plantarum Novae Hispaniae ) , ' 3 vols .
, 4to .
, 1790 .
Runth , C. S. In Humboldt , Bonpland et Kunth : ' Nova Genera et Species Plantarum , ' vol. 6 ( 1823 ) , p. 6 , t. 513 .
La Llave , P. , and Lexarza , J. ' Novorum Yegetabilium Descriptiones , ' fasc .
2 ( 1825 ) , p. 4 .
LioN , N. ' Biblioteca Botanico-Mexicana ' ( 1895 ) , p. 232 .
Lindley , J. The Vegetable Kingdom , ' edit .
3 ( 1853 ) , p. 795 .
Ramirez , J. ' Sinonimia vulgar y cientifica de las Plantas Mexicanas ' ( 1902 ) , p. 20 .
Schiede , C. J. W. " Botanische Berichte aus Mexico , " ' Linnaea , ' vols .
4 and 5 ( 1829-30 ) , passim .
Schlechtendal , D. F. L. von .
'Linnaea , ' vol. 17 ( 1843 ) , pp. 635-638 and p. 745 .
Schott , H. 'Genera Aroidearum , ' t. 29 , ft1 .
11 and 14 .
SessA M. , and Mocino , J. M. 'Flora Mexicana , ' editio secunda , 1894 .
The first edition issued at intervals as a separately paged " apendice " to ' La Naturaleza ' ( 1891-95 ) .
Idem .
' Plantae Novae Hispaniae , ' 1893 , editio secunda .
The first edition of this also appeared in an " apendice " to 'La Naturaleza .
' Walpers , G. G. 'Repertorium Botanices Systematicae , ' vol. 5 ( 1845 ) , p. 420 .
Fig. 1.-Fig .
2 , Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6.-Fig .
7 .
Fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
Plate 18 .
Juliania adstringens , Schl .
\#151 ; A branch bearing ^ flowers .
Natural size .
Pringle , 7243 .
\#151 ; A $ inflorescence .
Natural size .
Pringle , 8533 .
\#151 ; A heptamerous $ flower .
About X 10 .
Pringle , 8533 .
\#151 ; A hexamerous $ flower .
About X 10 .
Pringle , 7243 .
\#151 ; A pollen grain .
About X 400 .
Pringle , 8533 .
--A portion of the surface of the same .
X 1000 .
\#151 ; A pair of ?
inflorescences , one of which has two fully developed flowers with exserted styles , the other only one .
About X 3 .
Rose and Hay , 5341 .
\#151 ; A longitudinal section of a $ inflorescence , showing portions of four flowers , the two lateral having imperfectly developed styles .
About X 5 .
Rose and Hay , 5341 .
\#151 ; A longitudinal section through the broad plane of an ovary , showing the solitary , basal ovule .
About X 4 .
Rose and Hay , 5341 .
\#151 ; The same ovule .
About X 6 .
A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
Plate 19 .
Juliania adstringens , Schl .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A branch bearing young leaves and ?
flowers .
Natural size .
Rose and Hay , 5341 .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; A branch bearing ripe fruit .
Natural size .
Rose and Painter , 6550 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; A longitudinal section of an imperfect infrutescence , showing oblique position of empty carpels .
About X 2\ .
Langlassjs , 319 , Fig. 4.\#151 ; A longitudinal section of an imperfect infrutescence of the same specimen as the last , showing a grown-out ovule without any development of embryo , probably because unfertilised .
Fig. 5.-\#151 ; A cross-section of a ripe fruit through the seeds of the two fertile flowers .
About X 3 .
Nelson , 1706 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; A ripe seed .
Natural size .
Rose and Painter , 6550 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; An embryo from the same specimen .
About X 3 .
Plate 20 .
Juliania amplifolia , Hemsley and Rose .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A branch bearing half-ripe fruit .
Natural size .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Upper portion of half-ripe fruit , bearing the free tips of the involucral bracts and the remains of the styles .
About X 3 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Remains of a style below the free stigmatic arms .
About X 5 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; A section of a half-ripe carpel , showing a grown-out ovule without any obvious development of embryo .
About X 2 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; The same ovule , showing a groove on the outer edge of the funicular appendage .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; An ovule .
Natural size .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; The same enlarged .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; The same , showing a groove on the inner margin of the funicular appendage .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; A cross-section of fig. 5 below the embryonal lobe .
Fig. 10.-\#151 ; An ovule , in which the funicular appendage is folded back on the embryoniferous part .
About X 3 .
All from Rose and Hay , 4819 .
2 c 2 Plate 21 .
Julianiaamplifolia , Hemsley and Pose .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A branch bearing ripe fruit .
Natural size .
Figs. 2 , 3 , and 4.\#151 ; Cross-sections , at different heights , of a ripe fruit , showing the seeds in the central carpels , and malformed growths in the lateral ones .
- About X 2|- .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; A ripe seed .
About X 5 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; A section of a seed through its greatest diameter , showing accumbent radicle .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; An embryo .
Natural size .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; The same .
About X 6 .
All from Pringle , 5002 .
Plate 22 .
Juliania adstringenSchl .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A seedling in an early stage .
Natural size .
Pose and Hay , 5341 .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; A barren shoot bearing simple and trifoliolate leaves .
Natural size .
Pose and Painter , 6550 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Peduncle bearing three fruits .
Rose .
Figs. 4 and 5.\#151 ; Superficial and sectional views of old bark .
Natural size .
Pose and Painter , 6550 .
Juliania amplifolia , Hemsley and Rose .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Fruiting branch after the fall of the leaf .
Natural size .
Rose and Painter , 7425 .
Plate 23 .
Juliania glauca , Hemsley and Pose .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Branch bearing ripe fruit , after the fall of the leaf .
Natural size .
Figs. 2 and 3.\#151 ; Detached leaves .
Natural size .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Top of fruit , enlarged one-half .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Cross-section of a fruit , showing the seed in two ovaries .
No trace of lateral flowers .
About X 2 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; A nut denuded of its epicarp .
About X 4 .
Figs. 7 and 8.\#151 ; A seed , natural size and enlarged about three times .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; An embryo in natural position .
About X 5 .
All from Lumholtz , without number A NEW NATURAL ORDER OF PLANTS .
Plate 24 .
Orthopterygium Huaucui , Hemsley .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A branch bearing d flowers .
Natural size .
Maclean .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; A portion of a dinflorescence from the same .
About X 5 .
Figs. 3 and 4.\#151 ; Male flowers from the same .
About X 8 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; A perianth-segment from the same .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; A more enlarged stamen from the same .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; A branch .
Natural size .
Mathews , 591 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; A branch bearing fruits , after the fall of the leaf .
Natural size .
Mathews , 591 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; An imperfect fruit , from the same .
Natural size .
Figs. 10 , 11 , and 12.\#151 ; Views of the apex of imperfect fruits .
About X 3 .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; Longitudinal section of an imperfect fruit , showing traces of three flowers , the central one fertile and the two lateral imperfect .
Fig. 14.\#151 ; A longitudinal section of an ovary , showing the laterally adnate , bilamellate funicle , with a cup-like base , and the pendulous embryoniferous part oi the ovule\#151 ; partly diagrammatic .
About X 6 .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Diagrammatic cross-section of the middle of the last .
MM l V ?
J 'is ley .
Phil. Trans. B. Vol. , PI 18 .
H. Smith , \amp ; el^ Juliania adstringens , Schi .
Hems ley .
Phil. Trans. B. Vol. 199 , PI .
19 .
Juliania adstringens , Schl Hems ley .
Phil. Trans. B. Vol.199 , PI .
20 .
Wmy \amp ; .
Smith , cLe.1* Juliania amplifolia , Hemsley \amp ; Rose M'F"urla , no \amp ; Ershine .
Lith-Ecteii* Hems ley .
Phil. Trans. B. Vol. PI .
21 .
MfFa.rla .
Tie \amp ; .
Ersfcino .
Lifc-li .
EdinF M. Smith , del .
Juliania amplifolia , Hemsley \amp ; .
Rose .
ttemsley .
Phil. Trouns .
B. Vol.199 , PI .
22 .
M. Smith , del* M-Fa.rla .
no \amp ; Erslune , Libh .
Ediiir Figs. 1 5 , Juliania adstringens .
Scti .
Fig. 6 , Juliania amplifolia .
Hemsley\amp ; Rose .
ffemsley Phil. Trans. B. Vol. 199 , PI .
W. Smith , del* cJuliania ^lauca , Hemsley \amp ; Rose .
M'Farlane k Er skin t , Lith EdinT

