]\gt ; [ 231 ] VIII .
On the -Violet of the Elements.\mdash ; Part III .
Cobalt Nickel .
G. D. LIVING , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistr.y , and J. DEWAR , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jackso)Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received Febrnary 27 , \mdash ; Read March 15 , 1888 .
[ PLATES 9-14 .
] IN our first communication to the Society on this subject we gave a reference map of the iron lines in the ultra-violet region , on measurements of the wave-lengths of nearly a undred of the principal ] .
These measurements were made by means of a diffraction grating by RUTHEiRFURD .
Since that time we have obtamed some of ROWLAND'S fine gratings , having a much larger ruled surface , though a somewhat smaller number of lines to the inch , than the RUTHERFURD grating .
With larger gratings it was advantageous to use larger telescopes , and it was a matter of some interest to determine the improved appliances led to the same numerical values of the wave-lengths as before .
In each case we determined the constant of the grating\mdash ; that is , the distance between successive lines\mdash ; by NGSTRoM'S scale .
We had , for instance , measured the deviations by the RUTHERFURD grating of several lines\mdash ; namely , , and H\mdash ; for as many orders of spectra as we could on both sides of the collimator , and then calculated what must be the distance between the lines to produce these deviations , on the assumption that NGSTRoM'S wave-lengths of these lines were correct .
We have since used the solar lines , or the corresponding lines of the spectrum of the spark taken between iron terminals , for the purpose of gauging our gratings , because NGSTRoM had bestowed the greatest pains in the measurement of the wave-lengths of these lines .
PIERCE and BELL have corrected NGsTRom 's measures , but , for convenience in comparisons , we have retained the old scale .
In order to make our numbers correspond to the new scale they must all be multiplied ( according to ROWLAND ) by The first comparison of measurements with the different gratings was made with respect to the cad1uium lines , which have frequently been used as lines of reference .
Four pairs of photographs of the cadmium lin No. 17 in MASCART'S notation had given us the foUowing wave-lengths:\mdash ; 3.8.8 ESSORS G. D. LIVING AND J. DLWAli 274858 at 4th order .
2748 .
, , , , 5th , , 6th Mean Six pairs taken with a ROWLAND grating and the same goniometer gave us\mdash ; at 3rd order .
2748 .
, , 4th 2748.50 , 5th , , 6th 2748 .
, , 8th Mean value of the wave-length of the same line is .
The were all taken with a collimating eyepiece .
Considering the cadmium lines , though strong , are very diffuse , so that there is room for considerable error in estimating centre of the photographic iJnage , and that an error of mm. in measuring the distance between the two images of the line on the photograph would make an error of in the deviation , or very nearly in the value of the wavelength , the values above are fairly concordant .
However , besides the difficulty of exact measurement arising from the ill-defined character of the cadmium lines , there is a source of error arising from the gratings themselves , and affecting both of them .
It is that the two images of any given line , on the two sides of the normal to the grating , are not in focus at the same distance from the object-glass of the telescope .
Hence , if the photographic plate is adjusted to the focus of a particular line when the grating is turned in one direction , it will not receive a sharp image of the same line when the grating is turned in the other direction .
With a collimatin eyepiece it is comparatively easy to place the grating so the normal to its plane may coincide with the axis of the collimator .
Hence , fair measures of the wave-length of any line may be obtained from the deviation for that line , as measured on one side only of the normal .
But , since every change of focus makes it necessary to take a fresh reading of the position of the grating when it is normal to the axis of the collimator , it is better , as a rule , because errors of reading thereby become of less consequence , to measure the angle between the two images , one on one side and the other on the other side of the normal .
If this is done , the difficulty arising from difference of focus on the two sides must be faced , as any alterations of adjustment between the times of taking the pair of photographs would be wholly inadmissible .
* Amer . .
Sci vol , 31 , 1886 , p. 429 .
ON THE ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRA OF THE ELEMENTS .
Again , it seldom happens that a grating gives the two spectra of the same order bright .
With one of our gratings the spectra of the 3rd 5th orders are bright on one side only of the normal , while those of the 4th and 6th orders are bright on the other side only .
Where faint lines were in question , therefore , we have used spectra of different orders on the two sides , and computed the waye-length by the formula ; where and are the orders of the spectra employed , and the deyiations of the ray from the normal .
is , of course , the angle directly measured ; has to be calculated from the reading of the instrument when the grating is normal to the axis of the collimator .
As is always a small angle , any error in determining it will affect the value found for but little .
Measures of other cadmium lines gave the following results:\mdash ; Previous measures of lines Nos. 24 and 25 , by interpolation between the copper lines of which the wave-lengths had been determined by RUTHERFURD'S grating , had given the values of and Other cadmium lines , measured by ROWLAND'S grating , gave the following results:\mdash ; Bnnn s of of this last group of lines are all too large by a , bout as compared with , and they seem to be affected by some common error , but whence it arises we do not know .
Our measures of lines in the visible spectrum , where , of course , there are fewer sources of error , agree very closely with BELL'S .
Thus our measures of the blue lines gave the figures for , and , and these , when multiplied by the factor , come very close indeed to BELL'S numbers , which are , and .
On the whole , we are inclined to think that a really good goniometer with a plane grating and a telescope of moderate dimensions , length 8 or 9 decimeters , will give extremely accurate wave-lengths , while the greater angular aperture of such a telescope gives it a considerable advantage in point of light over the concave grating used by BELL .
The method of measuring wave-lengths by the coincidences of lines in spectra of different orders , for which a concave reflecting grating is admirably adapted , could not be easily applied to the ultra-violet spectra of cobalt and nickel , because the lines are so crowded that the overlapping of two or three spectra , all in focus together , would produce a complication which it would be nearly impossible to unravel , except by dispersing the spectra in a direction at right angles to the dispersion produced by the grating .
chromatic aberration of our quartz lenses is a positive advantage in dissipating the light of the spectra of those orders which are not under examimation .
For the determination of the cobalt and nickel lines specimens of those metals were prepared so far spectroscopically pure that the spark between fragments of the cobalt showed none of the characteristic strong lines of , and the spark between pieces of the nickel showed none of the characteristic strong lines of cobalt .
As the metals fter 1eduction were fused with an oxyhydrogen blowpipe in lime crucibles , they were not free from all traces of other metals .
For the arc lines much labour in the purification of the metals would have been wholly thrown away , because a variety of metals are present in the carbon electrodes as well as in the limestone used for crucibles .
In the arc , therefore , we used samples sold as 'pure and identified the hnes either by their coincidence with spark lines photographed at the same time through a part of the slit , or by their making their appearance , or being notably strengthened , on the introduction of the metal into the arc .
The list of arc lines is much less complete than the list of spark lines , because weak lines in the arc are more easily overlooked in a photograph crowded with lines , and when noticed their origin is with difficulty identified .
The wave-lengths of the spark and arc lines which were not measured directly by means of a grating were determined by interpolation from photographs of refi.action spectra .
In the highest region the copper lines were used as lines of reference in this interpolation .
For the direct determination of the wave-lengths of the nickel lines about 170 photographs were taken , measured , and the results reduced ; for the lines about 200 .
In many cases several lines could be measured on the same plate , but we have rarely been satisfied without getting two or more independent measures of the deviation for each line , and in many cases the measures have been ON THE ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRA OF THE ELEMENTS .
made in more than one order of the spectra .
Owing to difference in the strength of the spectra on the two sides of the normal to the grating , it sometimes happened that faint lines ppeared in one of a pair of photographs , that is on one side of the normal , but not on the other .
In such cases , when the reading of the circle for the normal position of the grating ( which is liable to vary with adjustment of focus ) could be accurately determined by the help of stronger lines , which could be measured in both photographs , the wave-lengths of the faint lines have been calculated from the deviation as measured on one side of the normal .
Such a measurement , though it gives a valuable result , is plainly not quite independent .
From the close chemical relationship between cobalt and nickel we should have expected that their specbra would closely resemble one another .
In regard to the large numbel of lines which they exhibit , they certainly resemble each other , and resemble iron ; and the resemblance goes a little further , inasmuch as the lines of all three spectra are much more crowded in certain regions than in others , and the crowded regions are approximately the same for all three .
But , beyond such a general resemblance , we have been unable to trace any definite correspondence in the spectra .
The number of lines of which according to our measurements have wave-lengths identical with those of nickel lines is small , but in a record of 580lines of cobalt and 400 of nickel it would be surprising if there were not many close and , in fact , we note forty-six cases where lines of cobalt do not appear to differ in wave-length from lines of nickel by more than a tenth of a tenth-metre .
Now , if the cobalt lines were uniformly distributed over the whole region mapped and the nickel lines distributed at random amongst them , it would be an even chance that twenty-six nickel lines would not be more than a tenth of a tenth-metre distant from the nearest cobalt lines .
A glance at the map will , however , show that the cobalt lines are by no means evenly distributed , and in the regions where they are most closely packed the nickel lines are also for the most part closely packed .
Hence , the chance of merely accidental coincidences is very much greater than that above mentioned ; and we find that in the region between the wave-lengths 2250 and 2550 the number of lines of the two metals , which , as measured , are not more than a tenth of a tenth-metre distant from one another is twenty-five , more than half the whole number of coincidences to that degree of approximation .
On the whole we are unable to conclude that the coin- cidences are more than fortuitous .
It should be observed that we have not yet had the opportunity of comparing the spectra of the two metals photographed on the same plate with high dispersion .
On many of our plates the iron spark has been photographed simultaneously with the spectrum of another metal , and we have noted on the table of wave-lengths the cases in which these photographs show an unresolved coincidence between an iron line and a cobalt or nickel line .
These photographs , however , have all been taken with a prismatic spectroscope , and it is probable that a higher dispersion might resolve some of these coincidences .

