2 .
&lt; " On the means adopted in the British Colonial iMagncetic Observatories for determining the absolute values , secular change , and annual variation of the Magnetic Force .
" By Lieut.-Col. Edward Sabine , R.A. , For .
See .
R.S. The determination of the -mean nulerical values of the elements of terrestrial magnetism in direction and foree at different points of the earth 's surface ( the force being expressed in absolute measure , intelligible consequently to future generations , however distant , and conveying to them a knowledge of the present magnetic state of the globe ) , and the determination of the nature and amount of the secalar changes which the elements are at present undergoing , are , as the author states , the first steps in that great inductive inquiry by which it may be hoped that the inhabitants of the globe may at some date , perhaps not very distant , obtain a complete knowledge of the laws of the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism , and possibly gain an insight into the physical causes of one of te most remarkable forces by which our planet is affected .
After stating the inadequacy of the instruments originally proposed by the Royal Society , to the attainment of ' all the objects for which they had been designed , the authlor refers to the modifications which had been introduced , in the instruments and methods of observation for the determination of the absolute values , and the secular changes of the horizontal component of the magnetic force .
He then gives the series of the results of the monthly observations at 'oronto from January 1845 to April 1849 as relatively correct ; and from this series , regarding each monthly determination as entitled to equal weight , and taking the arithmetical mean of all the values as the most probable lean value , obtains 3'53043 as the mean value of the horizontal force at Toronto , with a probable error of Q'00055 ; and the probable error of + '00I0 for each mronthly determination .
This is on the most simple hypothesis , in which neither secular change nor annual variation is supposed to exist .
The monthly results however distinctly indicate a secular change , and by means of them , on the hypothesis of a uniforn secular change , the author 94,3 deduces '0042 as the annual decrease of the horizontal force during the period comprehended by the observations , the value of the force on the 1st of March 181,7 , the mean epoch being 5'53045 , with a probable error of + '00025 .
For the purpose of deducing the values of the total magnetic force and its secular change from those of the horizontal force , it is necessary to know the magnetic inclination corresponding to the epoch and its secular change .
From the observations of the inclination , 75ยง 161"09 is deduced as the value of this element on the 1st of March 1817 , with a secular increase of 0a89 annually ; and 13'8832 as the value of the total force in absolute measure , at the same epoch .
As the annual increase of 0'89 in the inclination will not account for an annual dlecrease of more than '0033 in the horizontal force , there remains '0009 as indicative of a small annual decrease in the total force during the period of the observations , and the author considers that the probabilities are in favour of such a decrease , The general fact of an annual variation of the horizontal force at Toronto , the force being greater in the sunmmer than in the winter months , is shown by three independent methods of experiment , viz. the observations from which the foregoing conclusions have been drawn , the regular observations with the bifilar magnetometer , and observations undertaken expressly with the view of ascertaining the fact .
The author also infers the probable existence of an annual variation of the total force , the force being greatest in the winter months , or when the sun is in the southern signs , and least in the summer months , or when the sun is in the northern signs .
The results obtained from the observations at Hobarton are next briefly stated .
The investigation , conducted in the same manner as at Toronto , shows at Hobarton a decrease of south inclination of 089 on the average of the months from April to August inclusive , that is , in the southern winter ; and an increase of ' 0Q85 from October to February inclusive , that is , in the southern summer .
The series of observations on the horizontal force shows an annual variation of the same character as respects the seasons , and almost identical in amount with that at Toronto .
In the months from October to February inclusive , or in the summer months at Htobarton , the horizontal force is '0017 greater on the average than its mean amount ; and from April to August inclusive , or in the winter months at Hobarton , it is on the average '0013 less than its mean amount .
The inferences drawn from these variations of the inclination and horizontal force , taken jointly as respects the total force at Hobarton , are that this force is subject to an annual variation , being higher than its mean amount from October to February , and lower than its mean amount from April to August .
It thus appears that in the months from October to February the magnetic needle more nearly approaches the vertical position , both at Toronto in the northern hemisphere , and at JIlobarton in the southern ; and that the total force is greatest at both stations from October to February , and least from April to August .
94It is much to be desired , the author states , that so remarkable a result should receive a full confirmation , by the continuance of the observations at Toronto and Hobarton for such an additional period as may appear necessary for that purpose ; and that the general conclusion , indicated by the observations at those stations , should be verified by similar investigations in other parts of the globe , especially at the observatories which now exist .
He conceives that these facts indicate the existence of a general affection of the whole globe having an annual period , and would appear to conduct us naturally to the position of the earth in its orbit as the first step towards an explanation of the periodic change .
I-e further urges the importance of following up without delay , and in the most effective manner , a branch of the research which gives so fair a promise of establishing , upon the basis of competent experiment , a conclusion of so much theoretical smoment .
In conclusion the author adverts briefly to considerations which may give a particular importance to accurate numerical values of the magnetic elements and their secular changes at Toronto , namely the proximity of that station to one of the two points on the northern hemisphere , which are the centres of the isodynamic loops , and are the points of the greatest intensity of the force ( on the surface of the globe ) of apparently two magnetic systems , distinguished from each other by the very remarkable difference in the rate of secular change to which the phenomena in each system appear to be subject .

