Observations made with the Invariable Pendulum ( No. 4 .
Jones ) , at the Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , for the purpose of determining the Compression of the Earth .
By the Rev. Fearon Fallows , F.R.S. Astronomer of the Cape Observatory .
Communicated by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .
Read February 18 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 153 .
] Of the two methods employed for determining the figure of the earth , namely , the direct measurements of arcs of the meridian , or of ascertaining the variations in the length of the seconds pendulum in different places , the author remarks that the former is attended with the collateral benefit of fixing the geographical position of certain stations in the country surveyed ; but the latter possesses the advantage of enabling the observer to concentrate , under his own immediate eye , the results of his inquiries .
The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope having been furnished by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty with the invariable pendulum of Jones , which had for several years been strictly examined by Capt. Sabine , the author was anxious to begin a series of experiments with it ; and as it was not likely that the observatory would be completed for a considerable time , he caused a strong brick pier to be built in an adjoining outhouse for the support of a transit instrument , the same which he had used in forming his catalogue of southern stars .
He gives a detailed account of his mode of fitting up the clock , and other parts of the apparatus necessary for the pendulum experiments .
He was ably assisted by Capt. Ronald and Lieut. Johnson , who took an active part in all the observations .
He remarks , that the near agreement of the three independent series of observations , made by himself and these two gentlemen , and which accompany the paper , is no small argument in favour of their accuracy .
The difference in the number of vibrations of the seconds pendulum at the Cape , from that in London , in a mean solar day , he finds to be 67*12 , from which it results that the compression of the earth is 2.T The author is of opinion that the invariable pendulum ought to be a standard instrument in every observatory ; that it should be swung at all seasons of the year , and occasionally transferred to various fixed observatories in both hemispheres , and returned again to its original station , where it should undergo a renewed and rigid examination before it is sent round on a fresh circllit of these stations .
To this paper a note is subjoined by Capt. Sabine , containing a correction of the result obtained by Mr. Fallows , resulting from the application of the true elements of reduction for buoyancy and expansion , as stated in his late paper in the Philosophical Transactions , which had not reached the Cape when Mr. Fallows made his computations .
The result of this correction gives 67 15 vibrations instead of 6 7-12 .
But when the observations of Capt. Ronald in London are taken in conjunction with those of Capt. Sabine , the retardation at the Cape is brought back to the exact number stated by Mr. Fallows .

