]\gt ; Mr. W. H. M. Chlistie on the [ Mar. 1 , gJands a in some way connected with the absorption of nitrogenous matter from the fluid in cups , far from understanding the hole o the problem ; for precisely similar Jilament-protruding glands are found on the seedlingleaves of D. sylvestris and on the second year 's leaves of D. pilosus ; and as no " " cups\ldquo ; are formed in either of thess cases , the filaments cannot be connected absorption of the products of decay .
The only which suggests itself is that the filaments absorb ammonia from the dew rain .
Recent researches have shown that cerlain -es hnve the power of absorbing an appreciable quantity of this fnct lends some probability to the view above To recapitulate .
l'rotoplasmic filaments arc protruded from the leafglands of the teasel ; citnd the only theory which seems at all capable of colmecting the observed facts is the following :That the glands on the tensel were aboriginally ( .
in the ancestors of the Dipsacaceae ) mere resin-excreting organs ; the protoplasm which comes forth was originally necessary concomitnnt of the secreted matters , but that , from coming in contact with enous fluids , it gradually pted to retain itality and to take on itself an absorptive metion ; and that this power , developed in relnfion to the ammonia in and dew , furthel eloped in tion to the fluid accuthe leayes of the ) lant .
III .
On the -power of the Half-prism as a means of great Dispcrsion , and on the General Theory of the ' Half-prism Spcctroscopc .
' By W. H. M. CHRISTIE , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. HUGGINS .
Received January 1877 .
On accoumt of the oblique incidence of the rays on the isosceles prism and the consequent diminution of the aperture of the collimator , " " halfprism formed by iding an isosceles prism by plane perpendicular to the base , hns fi.equently been employed for the commencement of ths of prisms , { for the end , though rently without due oonsideration of the effect of the " " half prism \ldquo ; on the dispersion of the other prisms in the lrai]l .
This is a of some importance ; for it will be that when the angles of incidence and emergence unequill ( as { he half-prism ) , the angular sepnration tween two pencils rnys is or diminished according as the angle of emergence is greater or less than the angle of incidcnce .
In consequence of this the } the pellc.ils corresponding to any two lines in the SpeCtrum , .
the two Dlines , will be increased by passingthrough half-prism ( independently of the effect of ordinary dispersion ) if the face be turned towards the slit .
At the same time the 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
angle between pencils coming from the two edges of the slit will , for any monochromatic light , also be increased in nearly the ratio , and thus the lines in any spectrum become broader as they are further separated by virtue of this property , and the purity of the spectrum remains unaltered .
In fact the half-prism is from this point of view equivalent to a cylindrical magmfier , a property which may prove most useful in the construction of the spectroscope , leading to the substitution of three or , at the most , four half-prisms for the long of fifteen or twenty isosceles prisms now used . .
this purpose direct-vision prisms will be most suitable ; but I propose to begin by considering the simpler case of a half-prism of flint .
The expression " " \ldquo ; may be couveniently extended to the perty in question , which , will be seen presentry , is strictly analogous to that of a lens ; for will be found that the same law holds combinations of prisms as with other optical combinations , .
the -power is the ratio of the breadth of the incident to the breadth of the emergent pencil* .
In consequence of the property of the half-prism stated , it becomes necessary to Yuish b separation accompanied by increased breadth of tho lines and separation in telms of this breadth .
If the sense of the term\ldquo ; dispersion\ldquo ; had not been fixed by usnge , it might very well be npplied to the latter effect , " " separation\ldquo ; for the other ; but it ill undoubtedly be more in conformity with r ideas to define ' ' dispersion\ldquo ; as the ular length of the spectrum , whilst the term " " purity\ldquo ; may be used for the of this ular Iength to the angular of the spectrum lines ( expressed in terIns of the ngular vidth of the slit ) .
In the case of isosceles prism , for which the magnifyingpower is 1 , the dispersion and purity equd .
I will therefore distinguish the two positions in which half-prism can be with respect to the incident rays as " " nifying \ldquo ; ' ' Dimi- mshing , \ldquo ; { ccording { the perpendicular face is turned the slit or from it .
It will be found thnt the first position will be suitable iu cases }herc tion of the lines is required , and the second here great purity in tho ctrum is of importance ; but.before entering ou this point and on tho further comp rison with the ordinary combinations of isosceles prisms , it is desirable to find a convenient expression for the dispsrsion in different cases , confining this term to the effect of tho t.ariation in the index .
* This law follows at once from the principle of conservalion of lergy , co the total energy of all the pencils which pnss through the slit fall ( iu state of parallelism ) on the is measured by the product of tho breadth of the pencil into the angular width of the slit .
If , therefore , by the cfraction the breadth of the pencil is diminished , the ngular breadth of the monochrolllaticilnage of the slit must be increased , the narrower pencils being spread oter a larger tlngie , since total energy remains .
This is of course the ordinary la of brightness of optical images ; a ulorc proof from purely geometrical considerations is given in the text .
Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. SIMPLE PRISM .
Let be the angles of incidence and refraction .
be the angles of emergence and refraction , and being considered when they ] on the side of the normal ay from the edge of the prism .
the refractive the angle of the prism .
the magnifying-power .
the dispersion .
the purity .
the Then ( ] ) , ( 2 ) and 1 .
Magnifying-power .
Let between tv incident peIlcils .
ngle b the two corresponding emergent Then -power Now ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) being conslant , , and ; and from ( 3 ) ; ' will be seen at once by to the incident , refracted , and emergent pencils .
, if we have may call the magnifying-powers of the first and second surfaces respective ] , whence , -power of half-prism 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
Taking as variable , or where dispel.sion at first dispersion at second surface ; also , and Eliminating and the further relations , 3 .
Purity .
Putting II ' , purity at first surface , at second we have , and ; Before proceeding further we must assnme some relation between which will give a fourth equation ; and here three cases may be considered .
, or the collilnator fixed relatively to the prism .
This gives the dispersion and purity of the spectrum seen by the eye , tever be the form of spectroscope used .
, or the collimator telescope relatively to the prism in such a manner that the pencils for different parts of the spectrum all pass through the prism in the same direc.tion .
This is the condition in the ordinary form of spectroscope with aulom ntic djustment to minimum deviation .
, or the collimator and telescope ely flxed , whilst the prism is turned so as to bring different parts of the spectrum into the field of view .
This only be done hen ngles of incidence and emergence are unequal , as in the half-prism spectroscope .
Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. Jxing these three cases respectively , we have ; , and ; -Sangle which the prism is turned Then In the second aJld third cases the scales of the dispersion and purity are variable , are given by ( i ) for the part of the spectrum under examination on substituting the corresponding values of in the three of simple prism which specially to consider .
Half-prism magmfying ; II .
) rism diminishing ; III .
Isosceles prism .
I. C0b 1 .
I since and and } } 2 .
Dispersion . . . . . . . .
} , since 3 .
Purity . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Half-prism } lCeeping and as the angles at the fnce , which is now that of emergence , king m , , , ttlld , as the values of the magnifying-power , dispersion , and purity in this case , ) 1 .
Mngyng-powel\ldquo ; ?
and being innged .
2 .
Dispersion . . . . . .
' since 3 .
Purity . . . . . . . .
) } } III .
Isosceles ; 1 .
er . .
, since ( , and } 2 .
Dispersion . . . . . . . .
3 .
Purity . . . . . . . . . . . .
1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
13 These results might also hay been obtained by considering the prism as made up of two half-prisms separated by a thin pIate of air .
The dispersion of the first half is , and this is magniiied , times by the second , which also adds its dispersion , thus This will be seen at once to be equivalent to the algebraic process employed .
The above results may be summed up as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The purity of half-prism gnifying is equal to the dispersion of a half-prism diminishing , and is the product of the dispersive power of the glass and the tangent of the angle of the prism .
2 .
The of a half-prism magnifying is equal to the purity of a half-prism diminishiJlg , and is times the purity of a half-prism fying .
3 .
The purity and dispersion of an isosceles prism are equal , and are each twice the dispersion of a half-prism gnifying .
In future when the letters ?
, and are used without suffixes , they must be understood as the , dispersion , and purity of half-prism mRgnifying .
Confining our attention for the present to the ordinary form of spectroscope in which , the most important question to be considered is the irrationality of dispersion , which in fact fixes the limit to the refracting angle of the , unless the spectroscope is to be used only for one part of the spectrum .
The formula for the dispersion is chiefly useful as giving the irrationality , hich is seen to increase the dispersion , but in a more rapid ratio .
In fact if we put and for the dispersions corresponding to the same small value of for the Fraunhofer lines A and .
the values of the of the spectrum at those two points , we have tely In practice , howevel .
, ib will be convenient to express the ratio in terms of the for A and ; thus if the prism bc to minimum in In the Table the ih1lgles of emergoncc , the , and the er are given for a serics of ) risms of very dense Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. flint , the refractive indices for A and being and Ths refracting angle of the half-prism .
In this case and Half-prism of Flint .
Light reflected at The above numbers express the percentage of light lost by reflexion , computed by Fresnel 's formulae for and A respectively .
These Tables will ennble us readily to compare prisms of different angles in the case of this particular quality of glass , which has been selected as giving large dispersion with moderate absorption .
Let us take two ples for comparison with direct-vision prisms .
1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
1 .
Isosceles prism of .
Loss of light for per cent. for per cent. Irrafionality of dispersion or 2 .
Isosceles prism of .
Loss of for per cemt .
for per cent. Irrationality of dispersion In the loss of light after passing several surfaces , the t polarized beams must of course be rately and afterwards combined .
The quantities given under tionality of Dispersion represent what old be the of the spectrum if the scale were the same throughout as at A and respectively .
This is independent of irrationality in the refractive index of glass as referred to wave-lengths .
If we had an ordinary flint , the abovs numbers would be con- siderably modified .
Thus taking , and , which correspond to a moderately dense flint , 's No. 30 , specific gravity , we should havs For a prism of , dispersion Let be the refracting angle of the prism of glass which is the refractii index cemented to the half-prism of flint , the lgles of emergencc ction at the outer surface of the the other anglcs being denoted as before , though the relation between and will now be here present themselves according as is greater or less than The former gives the direct-vision prism , and the lntter the compound prism commonly used in large spectroscopes .
In the first case we have , in the secoud ; but this can be reduced to the first case by considcring as negative .
In conformity with this we shnll considsr the angles of refraction as positive when they fall on the side of the normal tow.ards the edge of the prism ( whether flint or crown ) in which the refraction takes place , and the angles of incidence or emergence as positive when they fall on the side from the edge .
lfr .
W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , Thus the two forms of compound prism may be consideled together ; but there is this important distinction , that ths refraction at the outer surfnce of the crown corrects tionality of dispersion in the directvision prism , since the angle of refraction is greater for the red rays , whilst in the ordinary compound prism the irrationality is greatly increased .
At the same time the refrnctiori at the outer surface of the crown slightly decreases the dispersion for the whole spectrum in the direct-vision prism , and slightly incref ) it in the other form ; but this effect is produced in the latter case by spreading out the violet rays , and in the formel .
by bringing them closer togethcr , the dispersion for the red rays about the same for the same ngles of retraction in the two forms , as be seen more clearly when actual is taken .
Thus the apparent superiority of the ordin compound prism turns out to be illusory , being gained by inequality in the scale ; and this is aggravated by loss of light for the violet rays , as the deviation at both refractions is greater than for the ledays .
On the other hand , both the scale and the loss of light are equalized througtJout the spectrum in a properly constructed direct-visioJl prism , which is therefore , independently of its convenience , the best form of compound plism for general use .
Prism.\mdash ; We have sin ; : : the deviation being considcred positi ) when the pencil is bent from the ting edge of the flint prism .
1 .
nifying-po being , .
where 2 .
king 1ithms diffcrcntintin itnd being now riable , fan } ) @ ; hcre 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
being the dispel.sion at the first , second , and third surfaces reSpeCbiyely ; also , and Eliminating nd ; and eliminating and , we have with the three further relations , 3 .
Putting II ' " " for the purit7 of the first , second , third surfaces respectively , and we have II ' , II Taking the three cases as before , we have : ; .
and and iii .
, angle through which prism is turned Then Taking the three forms of compound prism , I. Half-fJrism magnif , 1 .
Maguifyin 2 .
Dispersion . .
, .
} 3 .
Purity . . . . . . . .
VOL. XXVI . .
W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , II .
Half-prism diminishiny .
1 .
Magnifying-powel . .
2 .
Dispersion . . . . . . . .
- .
3 .
Purity . . . . . . . . . .
III .
Isosceles prism .
1 .
Magnifying-power . .
1 .
2 .
Dispersion . . . . . . . .
3 .
Purity . . . . . . . . . . . .
In order to fix the ideas , let us take the same flint , as in the case of the simple prism , and for the crown glass .
Then , and , and very nearly ; The first term increases with , or the angle of ths half-prism of flint , which should therefore be as large as practicable , consistently with good definition moderate loss of light : it also increases with ; but in that case the second term increases too in so far as depends on .
It will therefore be desirable to find the rate of variation of with , supposing and to remain constant .
Since ' we , taking logarithms of both sides amd differentiating , ; whence , since , and , , .
which increases rapidly with , and Taking as an example and have 4S .
The following bles are arranged in the same f'orm as those for the simple prism , king , and therefore Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
Crown .
Light Reflected .
Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , The dispersion is simply the dffierence between corresponding quantities in the two columns and The magnifying-power ( given in the last two columns for and A ) ir this and following Tables is to be understood as that of a half-prism having ( or ) for its refracting angle .
flint to Crown .
Light Reflected .
purpose of the ision compound 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
prism , we take as a particular case , and for the first , for the second , so that the extreme angle of incidence or emergence the crown will be the same in both forms , We thus .
Compoun Half-prism .
Dispersion Dispelsion1225 Deviation for , for the deviation being considered positive when it is in the direction as that of the flint prism .
bfagnifying-power .
of Dispersion .
or-9o 55 ' or The advantage of the ision prism is thus , whether as compared with a compound prism of the other form , or with two simple prisms of the same kind of flint and the same dispersion .
In the direct-vision half-prism here considered gives nearly same dispersion as a simple prism of ith less loss of light and without the great which makes the dispersion in the other case merely illusory .
It is to be remarked there still remaius the irrntionality in the ariation of the index for ] may , ever .
be ) Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , tially corrected in the dirsct-vision prism by increasing the .
angle of the crown .
The prism would , however , no longer be direct-vlslon , even for the ultra-violet , the deviation being negative and considerable in amount for the visible rays .
So far the has been considered in which the pencils for different parts of the spectrum all pass in the same direction through the prism ( parallel to the base ) , the and telescope are moved ; but it is also possible to keep the collimator and telescope fixed and to turn the prism merely .
In the former plan , which is that usually adopted , the limit to the angle of the prism is fixed by the condition that the angle of incidence or emergence for the violet at the oblique face must not be too large , or , in other words , that the angle of refraction must not be very near the angle for the violet , which is smaller than that for the red ; and consequently great dispel.sion is ccompanied v corresponding irratiouality , except in the case of the direct-vision prism .
If , however , the deviation be kept the same for all parts of the spectrum\mdash ; which can be done by turning the prism ( provided it be not isosceles ) this objection is got rid of , and at the same time the construction of the spectroscope is mnde much more simple .
The refracting angle ot a halfprism , whether simple or compound , can thus be increased , so to give the most suitable dispersive power for the middle of the dispersion speotrum ( about F ) when the pencil is incident perpendicularly on the first face .
By turning the pl.ism ] in one direction or the other , so as to incl'ease the angle of .
the red or diminish it for the violet , the different parts of the spectrum be mftde to emerge sucely in the same direction , and the dispersive and magnifying-powers , as well as the loss of light , ill be sensibly constant throughout the spectrum , the dispersiou at the first face extrelnely small .
Of course , if the whole spectrum be included in the field of view there will be the usual inequality of scale ; but extent of field can only be used for ing spectrum with ] and for purposes of measurement , the part mined must be brought to the middle of the field .
It may be remarked that the dispcrsion may be duced to about one half by turning the half-prism till the angles of inoidence and emergence become equad , it acts as prism miuimum deviation .
This property is useful for the exan ) of objects , the in dispersion being further ccompa by an in the transmitted light .
The spectrulu , old in this case be thrown some out of the of the field , a motion either of the scope or of the eyepiece would be llecessily .
In fig. 3 is shown the coursc of pencil of red rays ( full lines ) and of violet rays ( dotted lines ) a direct-vision -prism as it is turned about a centre in the lmer just described .
The , whether red or violet , emerge paradlel to their original direction , the diagram representing the course relative to the prism as it is turned .
1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
the case a with iixed collimator and spec- troscope , we increase the refracting angle ( or the angle of refraction for mean rays ) , thus obtain much dispersion .
In comparing the three forms of prism ( simple , direct-vision , and ordinary compound ) , the tionality was the most important tion ; but this does not here enter into the question .
The direct-vision prism , however , has still the nntage , as compared with the compound prism , of giving a more convenient form of spectroscope , whilst , as we can use very deep angles for the flint , the dispersion at the exterior surface of the crown hardly affects the resulting dispersion .
As compared wibh a simple half-prism of flint , there is the advantage of being able to make ( or the angle of the flint ) nearly twice as large , with a corresponding increase in the purity ; for will be remarked that although the magnifying-power and dispersion may be increased most indefinitely , there is a limit to the purity given by maleing critical angle ; and consequently there will be great advantage in a combination of flint and sulfaces whioh increases the critical angle without diminishing the dispersive In illustration of this the following Tnble may be interesting .
It is for a specimen of very dense flint glass spec .
gray .
of remarkable purity , which Mr. Hilger procured , and with hich he has made to my instrtlctions several experimental -vision halfprisms .
The refriLctive indices of this glass for A and are and 24 Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , This Table gives the of refraction and emergence and deviations at the two rsfractions , and also the magnifying-poWe } , purity , and dispersion ious direct-vlslon half-prisms , angls of the flint and the angle of the crown .
81ng The light lost by reflexion at the refraotion from flint to Crown follows:\mdash ; Light lost by Beflexion .
As the amount of hght lost in different combinations of prisms consideration , I have by the help of the preceding Tables calcu lated the Ioss in passing through trains of having tively angles of for the flint , with 11 for the crown , and the flint , with 1 for the orowll .
These particuJar forms of half-prism ( I ill call A and B ) have been used in two experimental scopes to be descl'ibed shortly , and I have therefore selected them examples .
It will be seen that for equal dispersion the loss of light slightly greater for a train of half-prisms ; but this is fully compensnted bf the diminished absorption , as fewer prisms will be required .
1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
In conidering the most ntageous combination of prisms in a spectroscope , it will be necessary to bear in mind the different purposes for which the instrument is used .
The meJlts in a spectroscope may thus be divided into the following heads:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Wide tion of the linss , with littls loss of and in the ctrum .
( 2 ) Great purity in the spectrum .
( 3 ) Wide separation of the lines accompnnied by considerable pmity .
In ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) loss of light is of secondary importance .
For measuring the displacement of lines in spectra of stars and work of a similar character ( 1 ) musb be specially considered ; here the width of the slit is by the size of the star 's image than.by the angle lbtended at of the collimatol. .
With isms of fair size sufficient purity will usually be obtainsd for measurement of the stroJlg without limiting the slit further ; the most point is in the equatoreal , as the of light collected varies with the aperture .
This ill readily be seen by considering that the angle subtended by the action image of a stal .
at the optical centre of the object-glass aries invel.sely as the apertul.e ; hence for prisms of a glve]l size the of the spectrum will be the same for all apertures , if the focal length of the collimator respond .
For a -line um , such as that of the prominences , which seen projected on the continuous spectrum of the sky and of hich the visibility depellds on the )with the background and not on the absolute brightness , ( 2 ) is of the test i special telltion must be pnid to ( 3 ) the case of the sum .
We may three ments of prisms : Half-prisms ma Half-prisms dilni Whole prisLns ; but in doin this must take account of width of the slit aJld the of the pencil as the of spectrum and its .
At the time , as the of the prisms practically ffies the limit to the power of the ctroscope , the quantity of glass used the different cases also borne min .
This latter consideration is important , because a of nifying the of the is in the : each ( the height l.emaining thaltered ) , the erse takes place with a train of isms diminishing .
Thus 11 both cases the may be made ' in \ldquo ; ting ith that end }hich b ith a ffice .
The difference between the cases is , that the first per- case ( mtlng from the slif ) begins with the broadest , and in the secoJld case with the owest , so that with the arranement we have a nal.l.ower pencil ftnd consequently less light .
In the case of a of lvhole prisms the pencil is narrower than for the half-prisms thickness of the ] through which the l.ays pass another lmpol.fant atioJl ; ] from this point of lieu the half-prlsm train has great .
The breadth Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , of the spectrum , as compared with the height of the slit , should also be taken into account , for this affects the brightness directly .
Hitherto advantage has not been taken of the circumstance that the height of the slit is practically unlimited ( except in the case of stars ) , and that therefore it is unnecessary to magnify the spectrum in this direction .
Thus the advantage of the train of ' ' half-prisms magnifying\ldquo ; is obvious , since the breadth of the spectrum is left unaltered .
In spectroscopes ordinarily constructed , the breadth of the spectrum is magnified at the same time as the separation of the lines , and thus a high magnifyingpower is accompanied by a great decrease in the brightness , the latter varying inversely as the square of the power .
By using a cylindrical eyepiece , however , this objection may be removed ; and there would appear to be no practical difficulty in this plan , since ] or no enlargement of the breadth of the spectrum is required .
For bright-line spectra generally a Bamsden eyepiece with cylindrical lenses would answer the purpose well , the height of the slit sufficient to give a convenient breadth to the speotrum without any amplification in this direction ; but for viewing the solar prominences the magnifying-power should be the same in both directions ; and thus with the train of " " -prisms dimi- nishing which , as will be seen , gives great purity in the spectrum with a correspondin decrease in the breadth of the of the slit , the magnifying-power of the eyepiece must be high in the direction of the breadth of the slit , and in the perpendicular ection .
An eyepiece formed with a cylindrical concnve or now lens ( within the principal focus of the viewing-telescope ) nnd an ordinary convex field-lens in combination with a convex cylindrical eye-lens , would produce this eifect , the axes of both cylindriffi lenses to the slit .
The effect of such am eyepiece may easily be investigated .
Let be the focal lenghs of the concave and convex cylindrical lenses , the focal length of the convex field-lens , and the focal length of the viewing-telescope ; then , if the verse parallel and perpendicular to the slit , For the rays in the perpendicular plane , suppose the concave cylindrical lens to form an enhrged image on the field-lens , which ] therefore effect , this image being at the focus of the cylindrical -lens .
Then if be the distance from the concave lens of the focus fter refractiou , and the enlargement of the image , and both negative , and ; Also ; 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
and .
If we make so as to equalise the two ical lenses , we have .
Thus if , and ; , and Taking 1 inch as the equivalent focal length of an ordinary eyepiece , we should get in the perpendicular direction magnifying-powers 9 and 25 times as great with ical lenses of and inch espectively .
There old probably be no difficulty iu applying such lenses .
We shall see , however , that one or more small -prisms placed bethe eye-lens the eye would the same purpose , with the dvantnge of increasing the dispersion ; and this arrangement appears to be decidedly superior to a We may now find expressions for the angular breadth of the lines , the dispersion and the purity of the spectrum in the different cases , as well as the quantity of glass used for the train of prisms and its total thickness .
Let number of whole prisms .
number of half-prisms .
magnifying-power of each .
dispersion of each whole prism .
quantity of glass in the smallest half-prism of the train .
ness of glass in the smallest half-prism of the train .
, and of slit in the three cases .
coefficient of absorption per unit of thickness .
and proportion lost by reflexion in passing through one half-prism of the light polnrized in and perpendicular to plane of incidence .
similar quantities for a whole prism .
1 .
-prisms magnifying .
By what precedes it will be clear that each half-prism in the train will magnify the angular separation of two pencils falling on it , whether coming from the two edges of the slit , or corresponding to two lines in the spectrum ( such as the two lines ) .
Thus the breadths of the two lines will be magnified in the same ratio as their separation , due to the dispersion of the preceding prisms , and to this will be added the dispersion proper ( as distinct from the magnifying-power ) of the half-prism itself .
Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , Thus , there being isms in the train , Breadth of spectrum-lines . .
Dispersion Purity of spectrum . . . . .
Quantity of glass . . . . . . . . . . .
Q. Thickness of ghss . . . . . . . . . .
Total brightness of spectrum. .
2 .
diminishin Breadth of spectl.um-lines . .
Dispersion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
\mdash ; .
\mdash ; .
Purity of spectrum . . . . .
Quantity and thic.kness of glass the samo as for " " half-prisms fying Total brightness of spectrum. .
3 .
Whole prisms .
Breadth of spectrum-lines . .
Dispersion Purity of spectrum . . . . . . . .
of ghss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total tness of ] ) ) .
early equal to respectively .
4 .
A irain of of ectrum liucs . .
] .
1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
29 Dispersion . . . . . . . .
\mdash ; .
Total brightness of spectrum. .
5 .
A train of prisms dfollowed by a train of halfBreadth of spectrum-lines . .
Dispersionpurity . . . . . . . .
} Total brightness of spectrum. .
The second of half-prisms in ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) may be placed between the eye-lens and the eye , and will then conveniently replace the cylin- drical magnifier .
The prisms may in that case be very small ; then dispersion , however , will not be magnified by the eyepiece , and they therefore add but little to the dispersion or purity .
In fact if be the magnifying-power of the viewing-telescope , the dispersion would be and , and the pu- rity for ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) This is on the supposition that the second the same mngnias the first .
for the same brightness of spectrum , neglecting loss of light by reflexion and absorption , we must have and , the breadth of ths slit being increased to nsate for the decrease in the breadth of the incident pencil .
lVhere this is not cticable ( star-spectra ) the train of ' ' half-prisms \ldquo ; has the of , as it gives at the same time wide separation of the lines , it best fulfils condition ( 1 ) .
On the other hand , for Yiewing the solar prollinencs , loss of ] ight is of liltlo or no consequencc , the importitnt point being to it strong contrast between the image of the slit Vlth the light of the ) the dispersed due to the light of the sky .
Thus the breadth of the slit does not enter into the question , and great purity in the spectrum is the chief desideratum .
A tr of ' ' halforisms \ldquo ; is by the best al.rangement ; but for Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , convenience in delineating the prominences , a cylindrical eyepiece train of half-prisms magnifying ( between the eye-lens and the eye ) must be used .
Such a combination is also suitable for spectrum-analysis , where a bright-line spectrum has to be distinguished from a continuous spectrum the background .
Thus with this arrangement the sodium lines in the flams of an ordinary paraffin candle are seen with great brilliancy .
In general , however , a combination of wide separation , purity , and brightness is required ; and here we must take the values for and given above in terms of ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) give the same purity ( 3 ) gives the purity . . . . . . . .
2 If we take the same number of half-prisms in ths thres cases , ; and ( 3 ) is superior in this respect to ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , the purity being pro- portional to . .
to terms and to . .
to terms in the two cases respectively .
But as the practical question is how to get the best result out of a given ntity of glass , we should divide purity by the quantity of glass , and thus we get the ratio for what may be called the efficiency , for ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , and for ( 3 ) .
Hence which shows the advantage of the half-prism train , ?
being greater than 1 .
On the other hand , there a small additional loss of light at the per- pendicular faces in the half-prism train amounting to 6 or 7 per cent. for each half-prism ; but as not more than three , or at the most four , are ever likely to be required , even for the sun , this loss is hardly sensibJe .
As regards the thickness of glass , the ratio of purity to thickness of glass is the same in ffi three cases , .
:\mdash ; We may consider one other point , .
the effect of error in the surfaces and of unequal density in the glass , though the question is a very obscure one .
An error in the being equivalent to a slight deviation in the incident ray , its effect will vary as the magnifying-power ; and thus with the train of half-prisms magnifyin , the errors of the half- prisms are magnified in propQrtion to their distance from the end of the 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
train in the same ratio as the dispersions ; and if there is no tendency to a repetition of errors throughout the train , these must be combined according to the ordinary law of errors of observation , and thus we should get probable error from whole train probable srror from one half-prism .
The train of ' ' -prisms \ldquo ; would give the same result , since -power of must be used to give the same separation .
In the case of ths whole prisms , a magnifyin of is required , therefore probable elror from whole train probable error from a whole prism .
Thus , considering that a higher magnifying-power must be applied where prisms are used , the case of a long of prisms vould be equivalent to the arithmetical mean of a large number of fallible surfaces ; but , independently of the fact that ffiter a moderate number the gain in accuracy of definition is very slight , practical experience seems to show that , owin probably to systematic errors in th surfaces or the glass , an increase in the number of prisms is accompanied by a corresponding loss of definition , and that consequently the of elrors does not apply .
Hitherto a long train of prisms has beeu considered necessary , partly because it has been the only means of purity , .
dispersion as distinct from mere separation , and partly because the use of high magnifying-powers involved the weakenin of the light by increase in the apparent breadth of the spec- trum .
As regards the effect of air-bubbles and other defects in ths glass in stopping out light , it falls under the head of absorption , and consti- tutes a very serious objection to the long train of prisms .
Probably , from vant of proper data , effect of absorption in spectroscopes would appear to have been generally overlooked ; and in many cases where compound prisms are employed the brightness of the spectrum is far inferior to what wonld have been obtaiued with much smaller prisms .
lvith a train of simple prisms the loss by absorption is very great , and to this is superadded the loss by reflexion at the numerous surfaces , so that the of a long train are sufficiently obvious .
To obtain some information on this poin , I have made several series of measures of the brightness of the light transmitted through various thicknesses of different kinds of glass , using a polarizing photometer and a chromatometer ( on the principle of Prof. 's colour-box ) ; and though the observations I have made are not so as I could wish for the elucidation of this interesting physical question , they are amply sufficient for the immediate object in , showing conclusively loss of light in the ordinary cortruction of the spectroscope .
There would seem to be great diflerences the absorptive of diff s Mr. W. H. M. Christic on the [ Mar. 1 , examined absorb the blue and violet rays strongly , whilst crown ] absorbs the red and green .
Notwithstanding its colour , very dense flint ( a specilic gravity of ) , when well , actually transmits considerably more light than the specimens of crown I have met with .
Thus I found that for a ness of four inches the proportion of the incident light transmitted in the case of flint and n-as as follows , allowance being made for the loss by reflexion at the surfaces : \mdash ; Red .
Green .
Blue .
per cent. per cent. per cent. Flint . . . . . . . . . . . .
56 49 5 Crown . . . . . . . . . .
40 39 21 these results it would appear a thickness of 4 inches of flint or 3 inches of crown would absorb half of the incident light , the glass being in case well made .
The absorption in the case of a train of prisms can easily be culated as follows : Let be the coefficient of light transmitted through thicknesses of flint and crown .
the height of the half-prism .
the abscissa any measured from the edge of the flint , where tnn ) ' being the number half-prisms .
Putting ightness of transmitfed pencil , which is supposed to be large enough to fill the whole of the prism , we have , .
being a constant .
For luating this expression the following Table of the values of the negative exponential will be convenient:\mdash ; 1 .
; thus 13 increases ith first , and then more more ) of hich old g an absorption of cent for 4 inches , ttVO the ] Table for the ohfness the 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
These figures show how little is gained by increasing the breadth of prisms in a long train ; in fact the Brightness the and this absorption , as it approaches its ]imiting value 1 , increases very slowly with the thickness of glass when that exceeds 6 or 8 inches .
The height of the prisms may , however , be increased with advantage up to the limit determined by the condition that the height of the emergent pencil ( after passing through the eyepiece ) shall not exceed the diameter of the pupil of the eye .
Thus with a of 10 on the -telescope it is useless to make the prisms more than 2 inches in height .
The coefficient shows the variation of the brightness with the absorptive of the glass and the angle of the prism .
The bove formula has been obtained on the supposition that the whole of bhe prism is utilized right up to the refracting edge , which is assumed to have no sensible thickness .
In practice , however , this is rarely the case , and the most part of the prism is lost , from the difficulty of working a surface true up to the edge .
In along train of prisms this is a matter of some importance , here light is of consequence ; and there is such a the further objection , that the pencil falling on } iewingtelescope is in fact rendered excentrical , and its breadth diminished , by the gleater absorption in passing through the thick parts of the prisms .
2 .
Compotmd Prisms .
Here , as the breadth of the prism is increased , there will be a point where the creased absorption makes up for the increased brightness of the incident pencil ; and when this is the case ; .
XXVT .
Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. suppose which gives the limiting breadth The condition may be expressed in words thus :When the brightness is a maximum , the light transmitted through the thickest parts of the train of crown prisms must be times that through the thickest parts of ths traim of prisms , being the thickness of crown expressed in terms of the total thickness corresponding to 1 inch breadth of prism ) which gives the absorption as the total thickness of flint corresponding to 1 inch breadth .
The thickness is in each case that velsed by the ray .
When or , the formuh becomes indeterminate the bsorption is then the same for all rays of the pencil , and Putting before , we have or ; or , when the brightness is a maximum , the breadth of the prisms must be such that the whole absorption is , the absorption in passing through the crown being supposed equal to that in the ilint .
This will be approximately true in the case of the direct-vision prism , for which therefore the thickness of glass versed ( flint and crown combined ) should not exceed inches , if we , as found by experiment for a very good specimen of flint .
With less pure glass , such as is frequently tlsed , this limiting thiclrness may be much smaller ; in one piece of very dense flint hich I examined it would be only inch ; but the absorption of the crown being here considerably less than that of the flint , formula just given would no longer apply .
Further , for the blue end of the spectrum would be much larger , being , in fact , about78 for the yellow flint , whilst is about for the , so that the total thickness for phic work should certainly not exceed 3 inches , the limit being fixed by the absorption of the These numerical results , vever , are given more as iUustrating the prmciples on which spectroscopes be constructed than as general npplicable in all cases ; for there is such diversity in glass that , by ajudicious selection , it is quite possible that a considerably greater might to be admissible for the photographic .
Further , the observations on which the values of the coefficients of absorption are based are liable to a uncertainty on account of the difficulty of for of perfect polish in the two surfaces of the plate .
They be hon.ever , as useful approximations to the truth .
1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
From what precedes it be seen that loss of light is so inseparably nssociated with dispersion , whether by making it necessary to use a narrower pencil or in other ways which are not so easily reduced to law , that there is theoretically but little to choose between different arrangements of prisms , and in particular between a long train of prisms and a short train of half-prisms ; but practically the advantage seems to be altogethel with the shol .
trai ] ] , which is less complicated and more convenient .
Ths difficulties of the adjustment of a train of prisms are so great that in practice the efficiency secured appears to fall very far short of the theoretical lillit , and thus so-called erful spectroscopes are a constant source of trouble and disappointment to those who use them .
Even if once properly adjusted it is practically impossible to keep them so , and the consequence is that the sodium lines , for example , are seen hardly any better eighteen or twenty prisms than with four or five .
The general conclusions arrived at with regard to the best combination of prisms may be summed up as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The dircct-vision prism ( as ordinarily used)possesses great advantages over other forms , simple or compound , especially in its correction of the of dispersion .
2 .
This tionality can , however , be corrected in any form of ' ' halfprism\ldquo ; by keeping the collimator and telescope relatively fixed , whilst the prism only is turned to bring successive parts of the spectrum into the field of , and thus an angle approaching closely to the critical angls may be advantageously used .
3 .
A train composed of three or at most four " " half-prisms ( directvision ) magnifying\ldquo ; is the best arrangement for giving wide separntion of the lines in the solar spectrum , whilst ons or , in some , two halfprisms similarly placed offer special advantages in the case of star-spectra .
A well-worked slit will be required for examination of the finer lines in the sum 's spectr ] , and it would be well to use a concave or " " Barlow\ldquo ; lens in the collimator so as to increase its focal length .
4 .
A train of two or three " " half-prisms ( direct-vision ) diminishing in combination with an eyepisce train of ' ' half-prisms magnifying is eculiarly adapted for the delineation of the solar , and generally for the tion of bright-line spectra a continuous background .
Mr. , who has entered with the greatest zeal into the practicnl tion of these principles , and to whose skill the success of the idea is rgely due , has made a direct-vision spectloscope .
the lloyttJ Observatory on the following plan ( see fig. 1 ) , which has been ) by the Astrouomer Royal , and which embodies the conclusions .
The consists of three half-prisms ision for the red , each an angle of for the flint and 11 for the , and a dispersion of with a of .
The coulse of the rays is indicated in he dingram , from hich il n ) M6 Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
37 will be seen how the breadth of the pencil decreases , the rays being thrown to ome side , as were , by the refraction of the prisms .
The prisms turn about centres , so placed that the rays for different parts of the spectrum , after emerging from one prism , always fall on the same part of the face of the next prism , each being turned through the same angle .
There is no difficulty in calculating the positions of these points in any particular case from the condition that as the prism is turned , and that the laterad displacement of the middle ray in one prlsm must be equal and opposite to the lateral motion of the perpendicular face of the next prism .
For the sake of convenience in mounting ( the centres being in the glass itself ) the second and third prisms have been made larger than is absolutely necessary ; and besides this alarge portion of the crown might be cut ofl as far as optical requirements concerned .
The prisms are each turned through the angle by the lever , having its fulcrum at and moved by the micrometer-screw This lever carries the three adjustable screws , so as to give the same axlgular motion to each prism , which is kept in contact with the corresponding screw by a spring on the opposite side .
Thus a simple motion of the lever by means of the micrometer-screw brings diffsrent parts of the spectrum into the field ; and this automatic motion will not be deranged in the least by withdrawing either one or of the prisms , which are carried in short adapter tubes to admit of easy removal .
The slit and eyepiece can readily be interchanged if great purity in the spectrum is desired ; and , as just intimated , either one , two , or three halfprisms can be used , a dispersion or purity ( as the case may be ) of four , fifteen , 0 sixty ordinary prisms of .
The concave lens has the effect of increasing the focal length of the collimator , and consequently of reducing the apparent breadth of the spectrum-linss for a given width of slit .
At the same time the spectrum is made narrower and brighter ; if , however , the spe , ctroscope be applied to a large telescope , there is in fact no gain in light , a portion only of the pencil from the object-glass being used , whilst the widlh and height of the slit may be increased in the same proportion so as to keep the purity amd breadth of spectrum constant .
}ithstanding this there is a practical advantage in the diminished effect of dust or irregularities om the slit .
It remains to mention one important point in the direct-vision spectroscopes .
Since the collimator and telescope are in a straight line , an image of the slit is formed in the centre of the field by rays which pass through the objectglasses above and below the prisms ; and this serves as a bright reference line , which has the great advantage of being affected in the same way as the spectrum-lines by any shift of the ] imator or viewing-telescope .
Either a positive or negative eyepiece may be used with this ghost , and its brightness or colour may be varied by diaphragms or coloured g Thus a convenient bright-line micrometer is formed , supplying a want which has long been felt by spectrof } copists .
38 Mr. W. H. istie on the It may be emal .
that this line gives a means jug the collimator and ] escope to focus , as , when this should be seen distinctly at the same time the ines .
The success of this oscope has exceeded all my Though the first prism is oIlly 0 in cross section , and the length 11 inohes , the power is ffi inter than of an with hich I am acquaiJlted , and thi is nied by rem rkable b ness the spectrum .
I compared it carefully the of the , which ha.s a of ten prisms , and bhat even rlsms 1 the small spectroscope the sodium lines full.y as separated as , better defined than , ] large spectroscope with its their ightness in the spectroscope is iIlcom power , the of prisms this tion is quadrupled parably he sodium lines are seen fully vitha of 9 -telescope .
The compactness of the half-prlsm spectroscope s1mplicity of its construction , and the ease with which it is appear to leave little to be desired .
I have , ever , tried a still more portable form of spectroscope , for many purposes seems fully ual to thelarger form .
It is of the miniature spectroscopes .
which the eye takes the place of telescope ; and its general construction will be readily seen fig. 2 , represents its size .
The prisms turn about centres , bein moved by the Iever on which a micrometer-screw acts as in the larger spectrosco ; butl allow of more motion in the first half-prism the positions of have been altered , which can be done when there are only two the train , the condition between the lateral still The other arrangements are as before the small tube so as to be readily if large dispersi prism being mounted ; but in the viewing-telescope and eyepiece , there is sim 1 persIon 1 not than eyeghss , , adapted to the sight of the observer for distant objects , at the rays through the prisms in state of bright line formed by the image of the top ands bottom of the slit is parallelism .
seen above and below the spectrum , and metsul.ements are made great convenience .
As the whole of the magnif -ower I have 1noreased the angle of the flint to power { to be supplied by the closely to the critical angle ; whilst in order 30 ' , which approaches form , the angle of the crown is , givin preserve the a dispersion or purity ( as the case ma be magnifying-power of of for each case may e ) of 50 , or ten ordinary prism nif .
The train of two half-prisms has thus a power of about 80 , and a di or 100 ordinary prisms of .
lspers on or purity of nearly 500 though this pectroscope is ( the length only 1877 .
] Magnifying-power of the Half-prism .
inches ) , its power is extraordinary .
With the first half-prism alone the lines are distinctly separated , whilst with the two half-prisms their distance is ( by actual measurement ) ; and this separation , be it remembered , is obtained solely by the prisms , without amy magnifying-power from an eyepiece .
This separation is about equal to that in the large Greenwich spectroscope with its ten compoulld prisms of inch section and the ordinaly eyepiece , ilst the definition is fully as sharp and the brightness far superior .
In fact where it is notllecessary to magnify the breadth of the spectrum , the ture spectroscope would appear to be quite equal to the ordinary form , as there is no use in increasing the height of the prisms beyond what is required to fill the pupil of the eye with light .
Thus in miniature spectroscope the prisms ] lead only inoh high ; whilst if a of 10 is to be used ( in the direction of the breadth of the spectrum ) their height should be 2 inches to give the snme brightness .
Except in the case of stars and other objects of very limited apparent size , breadth may be given to the spectrum just as well by increasing the height of the slit as by increasing the height of the isms .
Of course the of the first half-prism should be as large as may be , the magnifying-power in this direction being all cases high enough to reduce the breadth of the pencil to a small fraction of the diameter of the pupil of the eye .
The results obtained when the train of prisms is so as to give great purity are even more remarkable .
With either of the half-prism trains in this position , without slit , collimator , or telescope , the sodium lines are seen with great brilliancy ( though not divided ) in the flame even of an ordinary or composite candle any salt on the wick , and the Fraunhofer lines are seen sharply defined when the train of prisms pure and simple is pointed to the sun or moon .
When the two train are combined as in ( 5 ) , page 29 , still without any slit or lenses , the odium-lines in an ordinary flame are widely separated , forming two lmages of the flame ; and the and lines in the sun are also well divided .
the low altitude of the sun and the prevalence of haze , I have not had a fair opportunity of trying whether the prominences could be seen in this way without any slit or ; but from the ease with which ths line is seen , I think it probable that the prominences old be visible as a ring of light on the of the spectrum formed by the successive coloured images of the sun 's disk , dazzlin though it is .
Even if plan should fail with these short train of prisms , there v'otlld be no difficulty in adding ome or two more prisms to each ; for I imagine that the limit to the powel ' is far viIlg beached in the spectrosco pes I described .
I have deferred ] this new pJan of spectroscope nown until I could try it in a tolerably complete form , although the experlments I made with dision { other half-prisms Octobel last convinced lue of its value .
The results which have been oined so far will , I hope , show that is no difficulty in Mr. J. A. Fleming on Magneto-electric [ Mar. 8 , plying the method so as to obtain in a compact form and at a small cost a dispersive power exceeding that of any spectroscope on the old plan , and free from the defects inherent in a complicated instrument .
conclusion , I allude to application of the remarkable property of the half-prism which may perhaps prove of practical use .
From what precedes it will be clear that the half-prism , far as ibs magnifying-power is concerned , is equivalent to 11 combiJlation of an objectglass and cylindrical eyepiece , the peculiarity being that it magnifies the angle between two pencils of parallel rays without affecting the parallelism of the rays in each pencil .
The half-prisms which have so far been considered are constructed so as to give great dispersion , and the sun is seen through them as if through a telescope with an object-glass formed of a convex flint lens and a concave crown .
But it is obvious that an achromatic prism may be formed on the same principle as the achromatic object-glass , giving cylindrical -power without dispersion .
If two such prisms be crossed at right angles , one behind the other , the magnifying-powex -ill be the same in both directions , and the combination act as an achromatic telescope with the advantage of great compactness , since the eye can be applied close to the second prism .
Whelher , however , this compensate for the greater quantity of glass required for the loss of light is a matter for practical consideration ; and 1 therefore defcr the discussion of the achromatic till I have satisfied myself that it has some practical utility , even though it never replace the refracting telescope for general use .
Royal Observatory , Greenwich , March 8 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. in the Chair .
The Presents were laid on the table , and thanks dered for them .
The following Papers were read : I. On Magneto-electric Induction in Liquids and Gases.\mdash ; Part I. Production of Induced Currents in Electrolytes By J. A. B.Sc. ( Lond. ) .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 1877 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of an experimental inquiry into the oduction of induced currents in liquids by magneto-electric induction .
Faraday examined one such of induchon , in which a conducting

