Some Observations Concerning the odd Turn of some Shell-snailes , and the darting of Spiders , made by an Ingenious Cantabrigian and by way of Letter communicated to Mr. I. Wray , who transmitted them to the Publisher for the R. S. Sir , I Can deny you nothing , and you may doe what you please with the Notes I send you .
You would know of me ( you say ) what I have observed concerning the Odd Turn of some Shell-snailes with us in England , and the Darting of Spiders .
I will tell you then of the first , that I , have found two sorts of them , easily to be distinguisht one from the other , and from all besides , because the Turn of the wreaths is from the right hand to the left , contrary to what may be seen in common Snails .
They are very small , and might therefore well escape thus long the more Curious Natura'ists ; neither of them much exceeding , at lest in thickness , a large Out-come .
The first I thus describe : The open of the shell is pretty round , the second turn or wreath is very large for the proportion , and the rest of the wreaths , about the number of six , are still lessened to a point .
This Turben or Conical figure is well near a quarter of an inch ; the colour of the shell is dusk sh , yet when the shrunk animal gives leave , you may see day through it , and then it is of a yellowish colour .
These shells are extreme brittle and tender , so that I cannot send them in a Letter : You may guess at the figure , if I tell you , they are some-thing like those of Aldrovandus de Testaceis , marked p. 359 .
Turbinum levium .
Of the second sort I send you enclosed at a venture half a dozen ; ( you see , in that I can so plentifully repair the loss of the former , that they are not very rare ; ( they seem to be much stronger and thicker shell 'd ; they are well near half as long again as the other , and as slender ; they have the exact figure of Oat-corn , being as it were pointed at both ends , and the middle a little swelled .
The open of the shell is not exactly round there being a peculiar Sinus in the lower part thereof .
I think , you may number about 10 .
Spires , having their turn from the right hand to the left .
The colour of the Shell is of a dark and reddish brown .
There are two sorts of this make described , and with their respective Cutts , in Fabius Columna ; but ours agree not with them in any thing more than the odd Turn : though it is true , that the other , the third there described , and called by him Cochlea Terrestris turbinata et striata , is very frequent in the road 'twixt Canterbu y and Dover , and likewise in some wooddy parts of the Woles in Lincoln-shire .
There are odd differences in this very Snail very remarkable , as its having but one pair of horns ( if I mistake not , ) as also a hard shelly cover ; its manner of wearing that cover &amp;c. which I leave to another opportunity and place .
And to return to our two now described Snails , they , when they creep , lift up the point of their shells towards a perpendicular , and exert with part of their body two pair of horns , as most of their kind doe .
In March they are still to be found in pairs , Aristotle affirms all these kind of creatures to be of a spontaneous birth , and no more to contribute to the production of one another , than Trees , and therefore to have no distinction of Sex .
I have no reason to subscribe to his authority , since I have seen so many of them paired , and in the very act of Venery .
That they engender then , is most certain ; but whether those , that are thus found coupled , be one of them male , and the other female , or rather , as you observed , and published to the World in the Catalogue of Plants growing Wild about Cambridge , that they are both male and female and do in the act of generation both receive into themselves , and immit a like penis ( as it seems probable to any man that shall part them ) I leave to further and more minute discovery to determine .
Moreover , we find in Aristotle a Circle of other parts , but of these no mention at all .
However the Romans knew something extraordinary of these kind of Animals , that made them so choice of them , as to reckon them among their most delicate food , and to use all care and diligence to breed and fat them for their Tables at large described to us by Varro .
Their taste and relish is none , methinks , of the most agreeable .
Of late , comparing Bussy 's Histoire Amoureuse de Gaule with Petronius Arbiter , out of whom I was made to believe , he had taken two of his Letters word for word , besides other Loveintrigues ; I found , inrunning him over , what satisfied me not a little in this very subject of Snails ; viz. That these very Animals , as well as other odd things in Nature , as Truffs , Mushroms , and no doubt too the Cossi or great Worms in the Oak ( another Roman dainty ) were made use of by the Ancients to incite Venery .
You 'll there find , that the distressed and feeble Lover prepares himself with a ragoust of Snails necks ( cervices Cochlearum ; ) and indeed in this part it is that these strange penes 's are to be found .
Mr. Hook does as it were promise the Anatomy of this Insect .
It were surely worth his pains , and the Learned World would be oblieged to him for a piece of this nature ; nothing , accurately done of the inward part of any insect , being yet published * * When this was written , Malpighius de Bombyce was not let published .
These Snails are to be found frequent enough under the loose bark of Trees , as old Willows , and in the ragged clefts of Elms and Oak &amp;c. and in no other place else , that I could observe .
You tell me , that it is generally concluded by Philosophers , That the reason of the usual Turn of Snails from the left to the right , is the like motion of the Sun , and that especially more Nord-ward , there having not been hitherto discovered any in our parts of the contrary Turn to the Sun 's motion .
But this is not the only case , where they are out , who consult not the Stores of Nature , but their own fancy .
What I am further about to tell you concerning Spiders , is as evident an Instance against them .
The long Threads in the Air in Summer , and especially towards September , have been a strange puzel to the wiser World .
It would divert you , though you know them as well as I , if I here reckoned up the ridiculous opinions concerning them ; but I omit them , and proceed to tell you the certain and immediate Authors of them , and how they make them .
I say then , that all Spiders , that spin in a thread , ( those , which we call Shepherds or long-legg 'd Spiders , never doe ; ) are the makers of these threads , so much wondred at , and in such infinite quantities every where .
I sent you the last Summer a Catalogue of thirty sorts of Spi ders , that I had distinguisht here with us in England ; and I must confess , I had well near completed that number , with many other Experiments concerning them , before I discovered this secret .
You must not expect here from me any thing more , than what you demanded of me ; for as for other Experiments , I reserve them till our meeting .
I had exactly marked all the ways of Weaving , used by any sorts of them , and in those admirable works I had ever noted that they still let down the Thread , they made use of ; and drew it after them .
Happily at length in nearly attending on one , that wrought a net , I saw him suddenly in the mid-work to desist , and turning his tail into the wind to dart out a thread with the violence and stream , we see water spout cut of a spring : This thread taken up by the wind , was in a moment emitted mitted some fathoms long , still issuing out of the belly of the animal ; by and by the Spider leapt into the air , and the threid mounted her up swistly .
After this first discovery , I made the like Observation in almost all the sorts of Spiders , I had before distinguished ; and I found the Air filled with young and old sailing on their threads , and undoubtedly seizing Gnats and other Insects in their passage ; there being often as manifest signs of slaughter , asleggs , wings of Flies &amp;c. on these threads , as in their webs below .
One thing yet was a wonder to me , viz. That many of these threads , that came down out of the Air , were not single , but snarled and with complicable woolly looks , now more now less ; and that on these I did not always find spiders , though many times I had found two or three upon one of them : whereas when they first flew up , the thread was still single , or but little tangled , or , it may be , thicker in one place then another .
In the end , by good attention I plainly found , what satisfied me abundantly , and that was this ; That I observed them to get to the top of a stalk or bough , or some such like thing , where they exercise this darting of threads into the air , and if they had not a mind to sail , they either swiftly drew it up again , winding it up with their fore-feet over there head into a look , or break it off short , and let the air carry it away .
This they will doe many times together , and you may see of them , that have chains of these locks or snarled thread before them , and yet not taken flight .
Again , I found , that after the first flight , all the time of their sailing they make locks , still darting forth fresh supplies of thread to sport and sail by .
It is further to be noted , that these complicated threads are much more tender , than our house-webbs .
In Winter and at Christmas I have observed them busy a darting , but few of them sail then , and therefore but Single threads only are to be seen ; And besides , they are but the young ones of last Autumns hatch , that are then employed ; and it is more than probable , that the great ropes of Autumn are made only by the great ones , and upon long passages and Summer weather , when great numbers of prey may invite them to stay longer up .
But But I cease to be tedious : I have many Experiments by me to satisfy many doubts , that may be made , viz. of the infinite number of these Insects , and their numberless Increase ; and besides , how strangely they are able to furnish ad husband great quantities of matter out of so small a bulk &amp;c. You may expect all from me after another summers leisure , which at least I think necessary to confirm to me these ; and other things concerning their Generation and Poison .
What I have said at present , is such as I have certainly observed ; and you may take the Truth of these Observations for excuse of the ill Texture of them .

