[ 273 ] XII .
Evidence of a'large extinct Monotreme ( Echidna Ramsayi , Ow .
) from the Wellington Breccia Cave , New South .
By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.B.S. Received November 3 , \#151 ; -Read November 15 , 1883 .
[ Plate 14 .
] Amongst the detached bones and fragmentary evidences of Mammals from the above-named locality , submitted to me by Edward P. Ramsey , Esq. , F.L.S. , who thence obtained them , was a humerus sufficiently complete to yield the following characters .
It was of great breadth in proportion to its length , and , through the unusual size and direction of the processes and ridges for muscular attachments , seemed as if the shaft of the bone had been twisted half-way round on its axis .
The head , or proximal articular surface ( Plate 14 , fig. 1 , , and fig. 3 ) , is a trans- versely elongated convexity , of a narrow ovate shape , with the broader end toward the ectotuberosity , lb\#151 ; the direction of such joint being at right angles to that of the feline humerus , in which , as in Thylacoleo , the antero-posterior or then-anconal diameter prevails .
The non-articular portions of this end of the bone extend for equal distances to the ento-c- and ecto-6-tuberosities .
From the latter is continued the " deltoid " or " anterior bicipital " ridge , f from which , after its course of more than one-third the length of the shaft , it is continued by a lower ridge along the thenal aspect to be lost in the bony bridge overarching the neur-arterial canal , Jc , o. From the ento-tuberosity , c , is continued the " teretial " or " posterior tricipital " ridge , along the radial border of the humeral shaft to its termination in a special process \#151 ; the 6e tricipital , " d. Moreover , both ento- and ecto-tuberosities are connected together by a low curved ridge or rising which bounds a small portion of the palmar surface of the shaft immediately below the head of the humerus .
From the bridge , k , is continued a narrow ridge to the ent-epicondylar process , i. The distal end of the humerus is continued , ridge-like , from i to a process midway between the epicon-dyles , h and if but bounding the ulnar trochlea , u. A notch below the outlet of the * * In anthropotomy the term 66 condyle , " rightly applied to the prominent articular convexities of the ct occipital , " 66 mandibular , " and u femoral " bones , is transferred from the distal articular prominence of the humerus^to the processes for attachment of muscles above the joint-surfaces .
I have found it convenient , in comparative osteology , to indicate the homologues of the 66 external condyle " and " internal condyle99 of the human humerus by the terms " ectepicondyle99 and " entepicondyle .
" neur-arterial canal , k , indicates the ulnar trochlea and divides the process , j , from the articular tuberosity or condyle , l , for the head of the radius .
A very small proportion of this condyle is continued upon the anconal surface of the humerus ( Plate 14 , fig 2 ) ; the convexity there changes to a concavity , u , for the ulna , and from e is continued the ectepicondyle , h , as a well-marked outstanding process .
The above partial description , with the annexed figures , of this , perhaps , most modified , after the Mole 's , of Mammalian humeri , suffices to show that we have the bone of a Monotreme under comparison , and that it must be referred to the terrestrial and fossorial genus represented at the present time by a much smaller species\#151 ; Echidna hystrix ( Cuv .
) .
The subject of the foregoing description was one of several other remains of phytophagous and insectivorous Marsupials , surpassing , like Nototherium and Phascolonus , the still existing Kangaroos and Wombats in bulk , and which , from the fractured state and markings of their bones , I conclude were dragged as prey by the sole Carnivore of adequate strength and size , at the remote period antecedent , probably , to the advent of the biped population of Australia .
To the hunger of these so-called aborigines for animal food I am disposed to refer the final disappearance of Beasts , of Birds ( Dromornis , of twice the bulk of the present Emeu , for example ) , and of Beptiles ( of which Megalania is an instance ) , conspicuous by their bulk , and as unable as the Elephants of Africa assailed by Negroes to resist the attacks of Man when impelled by the rage of hunger .
Such Kangaroos as were not disabled by their weight from a rapid saltatory flight have survived with the smaller , easily-concealed kinds .
A small burrowing Wombat ( Phascolomys)still survives ; its skeleton and dentition have enabled me to interpret the nature and affinities of its huge extinct ally , the Phascolone .
So , likewise , the small burrowing ant-devourer , still maintaining an existence , elucidates the affinities of its larger ancient congener .
I had long hoped to receive some fossil evidences of the Monotremes peculiar to Australasia , the lowest modification of the Mammalian class , represented by the aquatic insectivore , the Ornithorhynchus , and by the terrestrial kind , , closely resembling the placental ant-eaters .
For some years after the demise of Cuvier , both genera were deemed peculiar to the Australian and Tasmanian dismemberments of the great southern continent ; but , of late , a species ( Echidna Bruijnii)* and a second kind have been found living in the northern tract of New Guinea .
Both these species somewhat exceed in size the Australian varieties known as Echidna hystrix ( Shaw ) , and Echidna setosa ( Home ) ; but the fossil here described ( Echidna Ramsayi ) shows that a species # Gervais , " Osteographie des Monotremes vivants et fossiles , " Atlas , plates vi .
and vii .
f Ramsay , E. P. , " Note o\#163 ; a species of Echidna from Port Moresby , New Guinea , " Proceedings of the Linnean Society of New South Wales , vol. ii .
, p. 3 .
A notice by Mr. Krefft has appeared in the 'Annals and Magazine of Natural History ' ( vol. i. , p. 113 ) , of fossil remains ascribed to the genus Echidna .
MONOTREME FROM NEW SOUTH WALES .
larger than either of those from New Guinea formerly existed in Australia .
I cannot conclude without referring to the humerus of a similar exceptional type , but of considerably larger size , which was so associated with vertebral , pelvic , and femoral remains of a Reptilian character as to lead me to refer these fossils to the cold-blooded air-breathing class* under the generic name Platypodosaurus .
It is noteworthy , in relation to a geographical approach to the present limited and exclusive locality of the modification which brings Mammals nearest to Reptiles , that the Platypodosaurian remains should have been discovered at the southern extremity of the African continent .
As corresponding parts of the humeri of the existing and extinct kinds of Echidna are denoted by the same letters in the drawings accompanying the present paper , a \#171 ; table of admeasurements " need only to be added to exemplify the size-characters , those of the humerus of Platypodosaurus being added .
Humerus .
Echidna hystrix .
Echidna Ramsayi .
Platypodosaurus .
in .
lines .
in .
lines .
in .
lines .
Length ... .
- 2 0 3 4 10 6 Breadth of proximal end 1 0 1 9 5 3 " middle of shaft 0 4 0 10 2 3 " distal end 1 9 2 9 5 10 Thickness ( ancono-thenal ) of middle of shaft .
0 3^ 0 8 2 6 Plate 14 .
Pig .
1 .
Anterior or palmar view of the humerus , Echidna Ramsayi .
Fig. 2 .
Posterior or anconal surface of the humerus , ib. Fig. 3 .
Articular head of the humerus , ib. Fig. 4 .
Anterior or palmar view of the humerus , Echidna hystrix .
Fig. 5 .
Posterior or anconal surface of the humerus , ib. Fig. 6 .
Articular head of the humerus , ib. ( Parts of the tuberosities b and c are broken off in the fossil .
) All the figures are of the natural size .
* Quarterly .
Journal of the Geological Society , August 1880 , p. 414 , plate xvi .
, fig. 7 .
very Phil. Trans. 1884 ? .
Plate , 14 ?
^ K."We sle y ad 'ruxt .
K\#177 ; k , " We st-Newman \amp ; C\#174 ;

