]\gt ; .
8 .
Let represent an assigned value at the surface of the ellipsoid , it is required to find a series of ellipsoidal harmonics which shall agree with it at the surface .
We may put , and an expansion in spherical harmonics can at once be found by LAPLACE'S well-known formula , viz.:\mdash ; . . . . .
where is a zonal harmonic , whose pole is at , and the integrations are taken over the sphere .
This expansion has the value at the surface of the sphere .
Since , according to the preceding article , the harmonics form a system of conjugates , may be expressed , as we shall presently see , in terms of the form where is a function of and , and may have different values .
The point is the centre of the element Hence ' and Therefore , as it ought to be , 29 .
It may be pointed out that the foregoing theorem is suitable for the determination of the capacity of the inverted surfaces derived from where is integral , are the radii vectores from fixed points A and to any point ; PBA ; and the longitudinal angle of the plane PBA .
We shall suppose even and , the distance AB being , as before , Then so long as the expression is negative , it is impossible to find points for which .
If , however , it is positive , there are real points until it reaches the value , when and become infinite .
Hence , when is positive , the equation is that of a cone parallel to the conical asymptole to the surface , the vertex of which is A. The inverted surface , respect to , will therefore have a conical protuberance , terminating at the point , with corrugations symmetrically ranged upon it .
If the radius of be , as before , , the capacities of all such inverted surfaces will be Inverted figures obtained from ellipsoids present many varieties ording to their degrees of prolateness or oblateness , and the position of the point of inversion .
The expression for GREEN'S function in the general case of the ellipsoid with three uneqnal axes is , however , of too complicated a character to admit of interesting results .
NDCCCXCI.\mdash ; A. This integral is given in HEINE'S Kugelfunctionen ' , and can be readily ormed into others by HEINE'S methods , founded on JACOBI'S transformations for harmonics of the first kind .
Thus , if , then general term or , since the origin is arbitrary , .
Since , if we suppose we shall have , and the reciprocal of the distance between the two points is When , the erm must be divided by 2 .
rmonics . .
Any given harmonic of the oircular cylinder , considered as a limiting case of a harmonic of the prolate spheroid , is such that , of the characteristics in S 3 pertaining to it , some are infinite and others finite , For the infinite values the quantity may be infinite or finite , but there will be an infinite number of each variety , and the total number of 's is , as we have seen , of the same order of infinity as The characteristics which pertain to any given paraboloidal harmonic are in like manner partly finite and partly infinite , there being an infinite number of each , but the order of infinity of the total number is of the same order as By moving the origin of coordinates from the centre to the lower focus of the 3 .
prolate spheroid , axis of which is supposed to be vertical , and putting stem 2 , then making infinite , we find for the equation of any paraboloid of the , and for the orthogonals .
The of the harmonics may be readily deduced from the expressions for and contained in SS36 and 42 .
Thus , when is large , we may put or , if we write herein , the expression ultimately becolnes cos .

