450 Prof. J. C. Bose .
O the Periodicity in II .
" The Electrical Effects of Light upon Green Leaves .
( Preliminary Communication .
) " By A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. III .
" The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Egyptian Lotus ( Lotus arabicus ) " By W. R. Dunstan , F.R.S. , and T. A. Henry .
IV .
" The Exact Histological Localisation of the Visual Area of the Human Cerebral Cortex .
" By Dr. J. S. Bolton .
Communicated by Dr. Mott , F.R.S. V. " Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
V.\#151 ; On the Correlation between Duration of Life and the Number of Offspring .
" By Miss M. Beeton , G. U. Yule , and K. Pearson , F.R.S. VI .
" The Diffusion of Ions produced in Air by the Action of a Radioactive Substance , Ultra-violet Light , and Point Discharges .
" By J. S. Townsend .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. VII .
" On an Artificial Retina , and on a Theory of Vision .
" By Professor J. Chunder Bose , F.R.S. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. " On the Periodicity in the Electric Touch of Chemical Elements .
Preliminary Notice .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1899 , \#151 ; Read January 25 , 1900 .
In my previous communication* an account was given of the contact sensitiveness of elementary substances to electric radiation .
It was shown that though many substances exhibit a diminution of contact resistance , there are others , of which potassium may be taken as an example , which show an increase of resistance\#151 ; an increase which , in some cases , lasts during the impact of electric waves , the sensitive element quickly recovering on the cessation of radiation .
There are thus produced two opposite effects , which depend on the nature of sensitive substance .
As the normal action of radiation is to produce opposite effects on the two classes of substances , it would be advisable , in order to avoid confusion , to use a simple term to indicate these actions , and to distinguish them from one another , by calling the one positive and the other negative .
The sensitiveness is found confined to the outer surfaces in contact , and not extended to the substratum ; I have there* " On a Self-recovering Coherer , and the Study of Cohering Action of different Metals , " ' Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' vol. 65 .
the Electric Touch of Chemical Elements .
451 fore used the term " Electric Touch , " in the restricted sense of sensitiveness to electric radiation , the touch being regarded positive when there is a diminution of resistance by the action of radiation , and negative when radiation produces an increase of resistance .
In continuation of my previous investigation , I have completed a systematic inquiry into the action of nearly all the elements , including the metalloids and non-metals ; also of alloys , amalgams , and compounds .
Very great difficulty was at first encountered in working with the non-metals , which are extremely bad conductors .
The difficulty has , however , been overcome by the successful working of a new method of radiation balance .
As a result of these investigations , it is found that the increase of resistance exhibited by elements is far from being a rare phenomenon , nearly half the number of elements exhibiting this effect .
In the exhibition of the phenomenon of contact sensitiveness , various causes give rise to actions which appear at first to be very anomalous .
These causes have been isolated and their effects separately studied .
Results have thus been obtained which are uniformly consistent .
Experiments have specially been carried out in the following subjects :\#151 ; ( 1 ) On the passage of electricity through imperfect contacts .
( 2 ) The effects of various physical causes on the contact sensitiveness .
( 3 ) On the difference between mass action and molecular action .
( 4 ) On the changes produced in the sensitive substance by the action of radiation .
( 5 ) On the cause of " fatigue .
" ( 6 ) On electric reversal .
The study of the above supports the following hypotheses ( a ) That the contact sensitiveness depends on the chemical substance .
( b ) That the sensitiveness of an element is a periodic function of its atomic weight .
( c)That the effect of radiation is to produce a molecular change or allotropic modification of the substance acted on , so that a positive substance becomes less positive , and a negative substance less negative .
The change may in certain cases produce actual reversal .
( d ) That the so-called " fatigue " is due to the presence of " radiation products .
" A detailed account of these investigations will be communicated at an early date .

