]\gt ; XIV .
On the Mathematical Expression of Observations of Complex Periodical Phenomena ; and on Planetary Influence on the Earth 's Magnetism .
By CHAMBERS , F.R.S. , and F. CHAMBERS .
Received May 26 , \mdash ; Read June 19 , 1873* .
writers in the following pages to determine , by BESSEL'S method , a mathematical expression for a periodical phenomenon from observations which are affected by one or more other periodical phenomena , and to find criteria for judging of the extent to which the expression is affected by these other phenomena ; also , having found an expression for a period of known approximation to the truth , to find from it the expression for the true period .
In the course of these inquiries , certain ambiguities which affect similarly BESSEL'S expression for a single periodical phenomenon and the results here arrived at will be remarked upon ; and , finally , the results will be applied to determine the nature of periodic planetary magnetic influence in particular cases .
2 .
In BESSEL'S paper " " On the Determination of the Law of a Periodic Phenomenon\ldquo ; ( a translation of which has been published by the Meteorological Committee in the Quarterly Weather Report , part iv .
1870 ) , the author describes , in Section VII .
, how periodical phenomena which depend on two or more angles can be deyeloped from observations of the same ; and he remarks upon the simplicity of a certain class of cases in which both angles are exact measures of , and one is a multiple of the other .
In the description of the process occur the following words:\mdash ; " " If we designate the two angles by , then in the expression the , \amp ; c. which occur are not constant , but depend on ; and as they are periodic functions of , each of them has an expression of the form sin2 It is therefore necessary to deduce this development of \amp ; c. from the observations .
If the available series of observations gives the values of , not only for values of , which are in arithmetical progression and fill up the period , but also for the combination of each of these values of with values of , fulfilling the same conditions , the development has no difficulties After a perfect elucidation of a type of these cases follow urks upon comparatively difficult cases , which require more cumbrous methods for eliminating the several constants .
* Subsequently revised by the authors .
3 .
here is a yet simpler case , the importance of which possibly did not press itself on BESSEL'S attention , but which the present writers ( having occasion to describe in con nexion with actual observations ) find it convenient thus to introduce .
It is that of two or more combined phenomena , each of which separately recurs after a certain period , which is of different duration for each phenomenon ; and the object of this inquiry will be to determine under what circumstances , and with what degree of accuracy , may the coefficients of the expression , according to BESSEL'S form , of each separate phenomenon be found from a series of observed values of the combined phenomena .
4 .
As the result will be equally applicable to any number of combined phenomena , we will consider the case of only two , whose periods are respectively and Let and being the least integral numbers that will satisfy this condition* ; and being the interval in time ( supposed to be constant ) between every two consecutive observations , let the series of observations extend over the time , of which is a measure , then will the number ( r ) of observations be , and the angles corresponding to the time under the respective periods ( say ) and ; further , the angles corresponding to the time or will be 2 and respectively .
If represent the observed value of the combined phenomena at the time , and and be the separate phenomena of which it is composed , recurring after the period , and after the period , we shall have , ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) .
( 3 ) The observations will furnish equations of the following form : ( 4 ) and the most probable values of \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. will be those which give a minimum value to ( 5 ) the sum being taken between the limits and for integral values of This will have such a value when the differential coefficients of it with respect to *It will be shown later that it will suffice that and very nearly this condition ; but it is convenient in what immediately follows to regard them as doing so rigidly .
OF OBSEBVATIONS OF COMPLEX PERIODICAL PHBNOMENA .
each of the quantities , \amp ; c. , , \amp ; c. vanish* ; or , dividing out the factor 2 , when ( 6 ) \amp ; c. \amp ; c. , Representing by the suffix of a , or in a type term of in each of the equations ( 6 ) in turn , and by the integral numerical factor of the angle in a type of the sine or cosine which multiplies , let us note that cos -l ( a ) * The second differential coefficients being all squares , and therefore positive , there is no to whether equations ( C ) correspond to a maximum or minimum value of ( 5 ) .
which , since , and if be not a multiple of or not a multiple of .
( b ) Similarly , under the same conditions , sin ; ( c ) and invariably .
If , now , we define as follows , , of all alues for which s ororsuch , that .
is a multiple of is or \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. oris QQqq tisor ( 7 ) is or , OF OBSERVATIONS OF COMPLEX PERIODICAL PHENOMENA .
, all the values of QqQq for which is ' or such that ( ) ) a multiple of \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. , ' ' , .
' , is oris qQQq.tisor it is easy by means of ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , and other similar formulae , to convert the equations ( 6 ) into whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; ; whence ' whence ; whence ; .
( 8 ) whence ; lvhence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence } whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; whence ; \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. ; whence 5 .
In any special inquiry , having found by ( 8 ) the numerical values of \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , we may insert these in the equations ( 7 ) , which it will now be desirable to consider the significance of .
If our object was simply to find two periodical phenomena which would jointly satisfy the observations , then this could be done with the same degree of closeness in an variety of ways ; for we might give to the several telms of the right-hand members of ( 7 ) any arbitrary values consistently with their sum being equal to the left-hand member , and so long as the same coefficient is taken of the same value in all the equations ( 7 ) .
But although all the varieties would agree in giving the same value of the combined phenomena at any one OF OBSERVATIONS OF COMPI , EX PERIODICAL PHENOMENA .
of the times of observation , they would all generally differ as to its value at any time intermediate between any consecutive two of the observations .
In the first of the equations ( 7 ) , if we were to attribute the whole of to or , it would imply that the phenomenon occurred at all times irrespective of any periodicity ; but if we attribute it all to ( say ) , it would imply that the phenomenon occurred only at the times of observation , whilst at intermediate times the corresponding phenomenon would be represented by , which passes through a complete cycle of during the interval between every two consecutive observations , or whilst passes from one integral value to the next ; and combined with this there may be a phenomenon represented by of any arbitrary range .
Similarly , the distinction between the different terms of the other equations is that they go through a full cycle of change in diffelent periods ; and graphically each term would be represented by a complete whose length corresponded to the period of that term .
6 .
As the mathematical theory of this process affords no criterion for selection , we ought to find reasons apart from it for preferring particular appropriations of \amp ; c. to the several component parts of their equalities ; otherwise it is clear from what has been said that no useful result will be attained .
It may be lemarked that an ambiguity , similar to the one under consideration , attaches to BESSEL'S treatment of a single periodical phenomenon , the values corresponding to our \amp ; c. being given at the foot of page 26 , Section III .
of BESSEL'S paper .
BESSEL remarks that if we compare a mathematical theory of any periodical phenomenon , based on physical principles , with the observations , his expression for the values of the phenomenon is more convenient for the purpose than the observations themselves\mdash ; the reason of this being that , as the expression given by the mathematical theory is developed in the form in which the observations have been expressed , the two expressions may be compared term by term , or by equal subordinate periods .
This is probably the most important use of the method ; and as the most striking features of a variation will generally be those of long period , they may be examined apart from the others .
The next most important use of this method is probably that which has for its object the elimination of casual irregularities from the observations ; but this is served only when the subordinate variations of short period are rejected ; and after such rejection , it must always be borne in mind that the remaining expression is incomplete : this does not , however , interfere with the comparison of the subordinate variations retained with other phenomena of nature involving variations of the same subordinate periods ; indeed by indicating the periods followed by the subordinate variations which are of largest amount , it suggests means of distinguishing other phenomena that on examination may be found to be related to the one which is the subject of the observations .
The reason assigned by for giving preference to the terms of long period , viz. that ' the development of the 368 MESSRS .
C. AND F. CHAMBERS ON THE hlATlfEMATICAL EXPRESSION expression which represents the given values of will in general only be interesting when it converges so rapidly that only a few of the first terms have appreciable values had reference doubtless to the incompleteness of the partial expression\mdash ; this being of no consequence when the rejected part , the absence of which makes the expression incomplete , is of inconsiderable amount .
We may , however , be guided as to the validity of this reason by noting well whether the values of \amp ; c. do themselves become inappreciable whilst is still small .
7 .
Now in many special inquiries , and will have such values that , \amp ; c. will first become a multiple of only when or has ceased to be small ; in which case , following BESSEL , we may as inappreciable all the terms on the right-hand side of equation ( 7 ) , except and in the first equation and the first term of each of the others ; we then have whicharethesamevaluesasthosethatwouldbefoundbyapplying .
\amp ; c. \amp ; c. , naffected bethod , ; \ldquo ; 'ttions , position t ( 9 ) OF OBSERVAIIONS OF COMPLEX PERIODICAD PHENOMENA .
8 .
If instead of applying BESSEL'S process at once to each individual obser .
vation , we had begun by finding a mean value ( as affected by the other phenomenon ) of the one phenomenon at a particular phase of its period \ldquo ; , and then proceeded to apply BESSEL'S process to the mean values of this character , we should have arrived at precisely the same results .
We might also have regarded a hypothetical complex phenomenon of period as being produced solely by the recurrence of the phenomena whose periods are and and finding by BESSEL'S process from the observations the coefficients of its expression \mdash ; from these determining the coefficients of the expressions for the component periodical phenomena ; this , too , would have led to the same results .
9 .
To conclude this section , we draw from what has preceded the following practical rule for deducing from a series of observations of the combined effect of several independent phenomena ( observations taken at equal intervals of time ) the coefficients of BESSEL'S series for each separate phenomenon :Find the least integral numbers \amp ; c. which are proportional ( or nearly so ) to the periods \amp ; c. of the several phenomena , and let be the least common multiple of those numbers ; choose then for treatment observations extending exactly over some multiple of the period , and note whether any values of or or \amp ; c. , for which is small , other than the first terms , enter into the equations ( 7 ) ; if not , proceed to apply BESSEL'S method to determine from the observations the coefficients of the expression of each phenomenon , just as would be done if the observations were unaffected by the other phenomena .
II .
10 .
It will be useful further to estimate in what the phenomenon whose period is affects the values of the constants \amp ; c. , in the expression of the phenomenon whose period is , when the number ( R ) of observations is greater than and not a multiple of .
And here , confining our attention to strictly and exclusively periodical phenomena , we must l.eject the constant term in the expression for the combined phenomena : this is equivalent to substituting for the original observations , . . . . .
the excesses of them respectively above their mean value .
Let being an integer .
and let bein and proper fraction .
If represent by the general term and by the general term 370 .
C. AND F. ] ON rPffE MATIIEMATICAL EXPRESSION the first set of expressions of ( 6 ) may be put into the following typical form , which , in the case before us , is and since , and neglecting , with BESSEL , the terms of and for which is not small , and also dividing through by , this becomes .
( 12 ) But after each successive period the quantity tmz passes again , in each of its terms , through the same identical values ; it is therefore a proper periodical function , and passes at the same phase of each period through some maximum value , which cannot ever be of magnitude so great as the sum of all the 's and 's disregarding their signs ; much less can tmz ever reach that sum ; hence the last term of ( 12 ) can never be so great as twice the sum of all the 's and regardless of signs .
Suppose this to be its value at some time during the first period , then at no time in the second period can it exceed the half of this , since will have been at least doubled , whilst the part under the sign of summation cannot have increased ; similarly , at no time during the nth period can its value be of greater magnitude than of the sum of its 's and 's regardless of signs .
Hence if be made large enough , .
if the observations be sufficiently extended , this quantity can ahvays be reduced till its effect upon the value of is inappreciable .
11 .
Now it has been shown in the preceding investigation that , as increases and passes successively through the values . .
\amp ; c. , the quantity OF OBSERVATIONS OF COMPLEX PERIODICAL PHENOMENA .
vanishes at each passage ; when , therefore , the series of observations is not sufficiently extensive to obliterate the effect of the last term of ( 12 ) , it may be worth while , in the first place , to calculate approximately the values of , \amp ; c. , choosing for the purpose a number of observations which very nearly completes an integral number of periods , and thence the value of tmz for the fractional part of a period which is in excess of the last completed period .
Similar reasoning , with a similar result , may be applied to each of the expressions of ( 6 ) , of which ( 10 ) is a type .
III .
12 .
The variations in a series of observations ( equidistant in time ) are by hypothesis due to a periodical phenomenon whose true expression is , ( 13 ) in relation to which constant integer not small , period of the phenomenon , interval of time corresponding to the angle time reckoned from the commencement of the observations , and .
Let the interval between successive observations be , so that the observations will extend over a period .
The angle which corresponds to the interval of time will be equal to or ; let this be so small that is also a small angle , being the suffix of a or .
Under these conditions , to find the coefficients , \amp ; c. Let it first be rved that the condition that is a small angle , implies that has been so chosen that approximates as closely as possible to the known or assumed value of \ldquo ; .
The phenomenon occurring at the time mx , let that which occurs at the time be called ; then we shall have , ( 14 ) the general term of which is , where represents the positive integral suffix of a or ; and we may , for shortness , write , ( 15 ) the square brackets indicating that the general term within them is to represent the sum of its series of values when for is put , 1 , 2 , 3 , \amp ; c. .
successively , whence ; ( 1C ) 372 MESSRS .
C. AND F. CHAMBERS ON THB MATHEMATICAD sION and being a small angle , we may write for its sine , and for its cosine when we obtain ( . .
( 17 ) Multiplying both sides by being any positive integer , p. smz ] ; ( 18 ) and taking the sum on both sides from to , ( 19 ) Now observing , from the collected equations at the end of the first set of demon strations in the Appendix , that when , and according as is not or is or a multiple of , or ( 20 ) And as in equation ( 19 ) , applying equations ( 20 ) , equation ( 19 ) becomes , I OF OBSERVATIONS OF COMPLEX PFRIODICAL PHENOMENA .
or or ( 21 ) or according as neither nor is or a multiple of ; as is not , and is or a multiple of ; as is , and is not or a multiple of ; or as both and are multiples of And multiplying both sides by 1 374 MESSRS .
C. AND F. CHAMBERS ON TffE MAIHEMATICAL according as neither nor is or a multiple of ; as is not , but is or a multiple of ; as is , but is not or a multiple of ; or as both and are multiples of Now by BESSEL'S process , and assuming , as we shall , that only a few of the first terms of the expression for have considerable coefficients , , and Also let , and Therefore , writing and respectively for the coefficients of and in ( 22 ) , and transposing , . .
( 23 ) Proceeding in a similar manner , we find : smz ) ; tmz or ( 26 ) OF BRVATIONS OF COMPLEX PERIODICAL PHENOMENA .
or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or according as neither nor is or a multiple of ; as is not , but is or a muItiple of ; as is , but is not or a multiple of ; or as both and are multiples of or according as neither nor is or a multiple of ; as is not , but is or a multiple of ; as is , but is not or a multiple of ; or as both and are multiples of And writing and respectively for the coefficients of and in ) , and transposing , . . . . . . . . . .
13 .
From the general expressions ( 23 ) and ( 28 ) , for the coefficients we may now write down the particular values for the particular case in which , whilst neither nor is taken above 3 , neither nor is ever a multiple of ; and at the same operation we may substitute for the general terms in which are expressed , the series of terms obtained by giving the values , 1 , 2 , 3 .
successively , observing also that when these terms vanish .
We have then , ( 29 ) OF OBSERVATIONS OF COMPLEX PERIODICAL PHENOMENA .
For the values of \amp ; c. in the last terms of equations ( 29 ) to ( 34 ) , we must now insert their first approximations , \amp ; c. ( and in the last terms but one , second approximations ) , as follows:\mdash ; ; ; ; ; ; hese operations correspond to the rejection of terms involving We thus obtain , in lieu of equations ( 29 ) to ( 34 ) , which involve the unknown true coefficients on both sides , others of the form ( 36 ) \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. in which , \amp ; c. are numerical quantities .
The true period ( and therefore i ) being known , these expressions give values of the coefficients for the true period in terms of those for the approximate period ; and these values being inserted in equation'(13 ) , it will then express the phenomenon for the true period in terms of the coefficients for the approximate period .
The general expression for and \amp ; c. would be too lengthy to write in full , although the calculation of their numerical values in any particular case is not very tedious ; the most convenient mode of procedure is to work out , by equation ( 35 ) , the numerical values of the second approximations to \amp ; c. , and insert these in equations ( 29 ) to ( 34 ) .
14 .
To illustrate the application of the method described , and to show that advantage is gained by it , we have chosen , arbitrarily , the law of periodical variation or where ; ; and taking , and , we have calculated one hundred and twenty successive values of , corresponding to the successive values of .
; then , treating these numbers as if they corresponded to values of , \amp ; c. . . . .
, and applying to them BESSEL'S method , the following values of the approximate coefficients were obtained:\mdash ; ; ; With these values , and the other data which supphed them , equations ( 35 ) and ( 36 ) give as third approximations to the true values of the coefficients , ; ; ; ETABy INFLUENCE ON THE hABTH'S MAGNETISM .
and as second approximations , that is excluding terms involving ; ; the decree of approximation is in the second case close , and in the first almost perfect .
IV .
Application of the processes described to determine whether or not there be periodical variation of disturbances of Iagnetic Declination Force at Bombay , due to the influence of the planets , Venus , and the Earth , in the periods of their espective orbital revolutions* , and of Venus , and upiter in their synodic periods .
15 .
In view of the remarkably definite eyidence of periodicity in sun.spots indicatiye of planetary influence , brought to light by the investigations of Messls .
DE LA RUE , STEWART , and LOEWY , and regard to the common subjection of sun-spots and terrestrial magnetism to the well-known decennial period , it seemed to the writers very able to examine whether a similar connexion was exhibited by the two phenomena in respect of the planetary periods .
The connexion was first shown to exist , by General Sir TAliD SABINE , between the larger disturbances of terrestrial magnetism and sunspots , but it has since been extended to include also the regular magnetic variations .
The present inquiry will , however , be confined to the larger disturbances , and of these to the disturbances of Magnetic Declination and Horizontal Force at Bombay , of which a large body , extending over a period of twenty-six years , is available for use in the discussion .
16 .
A description of the Declinometer , and of the method adopted separating disturbances , which is that of General SABINE , appears in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 1869 , pp. 363 to 368 , and , like the Declinometer , the Horizontal-force Magnetometer is of the kind by GRUBB of Dublin , originally supplied to the itish Colonial Observa- tories .
Disturbed observations of Declination ( Easterly ) may be defined as all those3 observations which give a value of the easterly declination in excess of the of the remaining observations at the same hour during the same month by more than and the easterly disturbance is that excess ; and disturbed observations of Declination ( Westerly ) are all those observations which give a value of easterly declination in defect of that by more than , and the westerly disturbance is that defcct .
In Table I. the aggregates of such excesses and defects are shown for each month in of the twenty-six years from 1847 to 1872 .
Disturbed observations increasing the Horizontal Force are all those which give a value of the Horizontal Force in excess of of the remaining observations at the same hour dul.ing the same month by mor * The mathematical expression for the Earth 's influence being analogous to the expressions for the of Mercury and Venus , the influences arc herc ssed tcther iately , although doubtless not wholly of the same character in each case .
than .
( metre-gramme-second ) units of force , and the increasing disturbance is that excess ; and the disturbed observations decreasing the Horizontal Force are all those which give a value of Horizontal Force in defect of that average by more than units , and the decreasing disturbance is that defect .
In Table II .
the aggregates of the excesses and defects of Horizontal Force are shown for each month in each of the twenty-six years from 1847 to 1872 .
The two Tables contain all the observational data used in the present inquiry .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Showing the Monthly Aggregates of Disturbances of Declination exceeding in amount , from January 1847 to December 1872 .
ON THE EARTH'S MAGNETISM .
ABLE II.\mdash ; Showing the Monthly Aggregates of Disturbances of Horizontal Force exceeding 00334 ( metre-gramme-second ) units of force , from January 1847 to December 1872 .
17 .
The sidereal periods of revolution of Mercury , Venus , and the Earth are , and mean solar days respectively .
Nine periods of Mercury are so nearly equal to years ( 26 months ) that the accumulated difference after ninety-nine periods is less than four days , or of one period of Mercury ; and the time of thirteen penods of Venus differs from 8 years so little that after thirty-nine pel.iods the accumu .
C. AND F. CHAMBERS\mdash ; PLANETARY INFLUENCE lated difference is less than three days , or of the period of Venus ; we shall therefore , in the first place , find ( in accordance with what has preceded ) the coefficients of BESSEL'S series expressing the variation of aggregate disturbance of Magnetic Declination , Easterly and Westerly , and the variation of aggregate disturbance of Horizontal Force ( increasing and decreasing ) with variation of the position of Mercury in its orbit , just as if the observations were wholly due to the action of that planet , and so for each planet in turn ; and we shall afterwards examine to what extent the values of the coefficients thus found are affected by the influence of the other planets .
18 .
The ninety-nine periods of Mercury extend over 23 years and 10 months , and the observations treated commence with the aggregates of March 1847 , and end with those of December 1870 .
The thirty-nine periods of Venus and twenty-four periods of the Earth extend over 24 years , the observations treated being those for January 1847 to December 1870 .
The application of BESSEL'S process to these observations , taken from Tables I. and II .
, gives the values of the coefficients for the sidereal periods of Mercury , Venus , and the Earth as shown below* .
TABLE III .
Values of the coefficients \amp ; c. for the sidereal periods of Mercury , Venus , and the Earth .
Declination .
Horizontal Force .
Increasing Disturbance .
Decreasing Disturbance .
The Larth example of the calculations of one of these sets of coefficients is given at the end of the Appendix .
ON THE EARIH'S ETISM .
With these coefficients ( and neglecting the non-periodic part of the phenomena ) have been calculated the ordinates for the construction of the thick curves ( Plate 53 .
figs. 1-12 ) , the ordinates of which represent disturbance , and the abscissae time .
19 .
It may be objected to the procedure thus far , that the application of BESSEL'S method to any arbitrary series of periodical numbers would yield a smooth-flowing curve , although the numberg themselves were subject to no corresponding law : this , we reply , is a mistake ; the law is inherent in the series of numbers .
It is another question to what cause the law must , in a particular case , be attributed ; but this is so also when a periodical law has been found in a series of obselvations , by applying the common method of finding average values at different phases of the period .
It may be interesting to some of our readers to show that , where the circumstances allow of the application of the latter method , it leads to the same form of curve as BESSEL'S process .
We choose for this purpose the variations , with the sidereal period of Mercury , of disturbances of Declination ( Easterly and Westerly ) and of disturbances increasing and decreasing the Horizontal Force .
If we take twenty-six equidistant times in the period of Mercury and twenty-six consecutive months , the several months will correspond to the twenty-six phases of Mercury 's period , as shown below .
And arranging each successive twenty-six months ' aggregates in this way and in successive lines , we get , for each phase , eleven observed disturbance-aggregates , of which averages are calculated .
Means are then taken of each consecutive pair of these averages , forming twenty-six new averages , and this process is repeated six times ; after this the means are taken of every consecutive three of the last ayerages , and these numbers are curved thin in figs. 1-4 .
It will be seen that they agree with the thick curves obtained by BESSEL'S process , which are also constructed from twenty-six distant ordinates ; the agreement is closer , as it clearly should be , when the twentysix calculated ordinates are treated in the same manner ( described above ) as the twentysix average disturbance-aggregates were , to obtain the ordinates of the thin curves .
In this way the ordinates of the dotted curves have been obtained ; and although the thick curves must be taken as best representing the true law , the dotted ones are more directly comparable with the thin curves , having been obtained by a similar process .
The slight disagreement that is observable must be attributed mainly to the omission of the fourth and higher pairs of terms of BESSEL'S expression .
TABLE IV.\mdash ; The observed and calculated values of Aggregate Disturbance of Declination are , for the sidereal period of Mercury , as follows:\mdash ; ON THB EARTH'S MAGNETISM .
lnd for the sidereal periods of Venus and the Earth , the calculated values Disturbance Aggregates , diminished constant value Westerly Disturbance Aggregates , diminished by the constant value TABLE V.\mdash ; The observed and calculated values of Aggregate Disturbance of Horizontal Force are , for the sidereal period of Mercury , as follows:\mdash ; ON THE MAGNETISM .
And for the sidereal periods of Venus and the Earth , the calculated values are:\mdash ; Aggregates of Disturbances increasing the Horizontal Force , diminished by the constant value04611 .
Aggregates of Disturbances decreasing the Horizontal Force , diminished by tloe constant value 27529 .
20 .
Eighty-two synodic periods of Mercury extend over 26 years , and the obseryations treated are those for the years 1847 to 1872 .
Fifteen synodic periods of Venus and twenty-two of Jupiter extend over 24 years , the years treated being 1847 to 1870 .
TABLE VI.\mdash ; Values of the coefficients \amp ; c. for the synodic periods of Mercury , Venus , and Jupiter .
Declination .
TABLE VI .
( continued ) .
Horizontal Force .
With these coefficients have been calculated the ordinates for the construction of the thick curves , Plate 54 .
figs. 13 to 24 .
21 .
TABLE .\mdash ; The calculated values of Aggregate Disturbance of Declination for the synodic periods of Mercury , Venus , and Jupiter are as follows:\mdash ; Easterly Disturbance Aggregates , diminished by the constant value shown in the last column of the Table .
Westerly Disturbance Aggregates , diminished by the constant value shown in the column of the Table .
iter ON THE EARTIi'S MAGNETISM .
TABLE VIII.\mdash ; The calculated values of Aggregate Disturbance of Horizontal Force for the synodic periods of Mercury , Venus , and Jupiter are as follows:\mdash ; Aggregates of Disturbances increasing the Horizontal Force , diminished by the constant value shown in the last column of the Table .
Aggreg of Disturbances decreasing the Horizontal Force , diminished by constant value in tho last column of the 22 .
Let us now estimate the errors in the coefficients for the Earth due to the sidereal period of Venus , and those of the coefficients for the sidereal period of Venus due to the Earth 's period .
The periods have the ratio of 13 to 8 , so that in equations ( 7 ) , and ; that is , in 96 months eight periods of the Earth and thirteen of Venus have been just completed .
The least value of for which or is a multiple of or 96 is 11* , and therefore or is the first coefficient ( after or ) that affects the value of or ; the least value of for which is a multiple of 96 is 10 , and therefore or is the first coefficient ( after or ) that affects the value of or ; and similarly or is the coefficient ( after or that affects the value of .
Hence if we may disregard as small those terms in the expression for the Earth 's period which repeat themselves six or more times in a year , or whose period is less than two months , \amp ; c. will * See second set of demonstrations in the Appendix .
MESSRS .
C. AND F. CHAMBEBS\mdash ; PLANETARY INFLUENCE each be affected by only one of the Earth 's coefficients , viz. \amp ; c. respectively .
Again , the least positive integral value of for which or is a multiple of or 96 is 8 ; and therefore , if we may disregard as small those terms in the expression for the period of Venus which repeat themselves eight or more times in that period , the quantities \amp ; c. , being ected by the disturbance due to the planet Venus , will sensibly represent the true coefficients of the expression for the Earth 's disturbance variation .
In a similar manner it may be shown that \amp ; c. of equations ( 7 ) are sensibly equal to the true coefficients of the expression for the period of Venus ; for the least integral value of for which or 13 is a multiple of 96 is , so that only very high terms , in the expression for Venus , would affect the values of the coefficients of the earlier terms ; and further , since the least positive integral values of and which make or a multiple of 96 are eleven and eight respectively , and the corresponding terms repeating themselves eleven and eight times respectively in the periods of the Earth and Venus , they may , as before , be neglected .
23 .
But we have adopted for thirteen periods of Venus the approximate time 8 years or days , instead of the true time days , which is less by of a day .
Having worked out the question in Section III .
for three pairs of coefficients only , we will confine the examination to that number and to the Easterly disturbance variation for the sidereal period of the planet ; and it will suffice that we determine the second approximations to the true coefficients , rejecting terms involving .
that we apply equation ( 35 ) .
The first approximations are ; the angle and the angle \ldquo ; ' .
and the greatest value of sni is being the error in time in thirty-nine periods of Venus ) .
Consequently being a small angle , the case isone to which the investigation in Section III .
applies ; therefore cwhich iance tmost 24 .
We may examine how the sidereal disturbance period of Mercury affects the ON THE EARTH'S MAGNETISM .
coefficients of that of the Earth or Venus , and vice versed ; for which purpose we must use equations ( 12 ) of Section II .
, viz.\mdash ; which we will suppose to give the Earth 's coefficient and being the coefficients of Mercury , and being the ratio of the periods of the Earth and Melcury , which we may take as near enough to or , and ; inserting these values ( 12 ) becomes .
( 37 ) But the time of 314 observations is equal to 26 years , or 108 periods of Mercury , therefore ; ( 38 ) and adding of this to ( 37 ) , we have ; ( 39 ) and calculating the last term from the approximate coefficients of Mercury given in paragraph 18 , we find its value to be , for Easterly disturbance , ; therefore Similarly we find , in all of which the last terms are small enough to be neglected , in comparison , with the absolute range of any of the component periodical variations , as may be seen by simple inspection of the values of the several coefficients given in and for Westerly disturbance paragraph 18 .
And as these calculations are given more in illustration of , the method than for any intrinsic value , further .
of the result , we need carry them no MESSRS .
C. AND F. CHAMBERS\mdash ; PLANETARY INFLUENCE 25 .
Similarly , to find the effects of the Earth 's period upon the coefficients for the sidereal period of Mercury , we have in lieu of ( 37 ) , ; calculating which for Easterly disturbance , we obtain also , in all of which also the last ; comparisonwitholeachcomponent terms are small enough to be and for Westerly disturbance variation , as may be seen from , the values of the several coefficients given in paragraph 18 .
26 .
To make a similar estimate of the reciprocal actions of Venus and Mercury would , with a month as the interval between successive observations , be extremely troublesome ; but what has been done shows sufficiently the practicableness of the process , and we do not consider it necessary to apply it at present to this or any of the other cases we are with .
ON THE EARTH'S MAGNETISM .
27 .
The principal featules pointed out by Messrs. DE LA RUE , STEWART , and of the growth and decadence of sun-spots were of a simple character ; the spots acquired a minimum magnitude at a heliocentric longitude alittle greater than that of the planet , and a maximum at a heliocentric longitude a little more than 18 greater than that of the planet ; and there was a gradual progression in the change from minimum to maximum and vice in the intervening periods .
28 .
It must be admitted that the curves which we have found of magnetic variation in planetary periods do not possess the same simple character ; but if we confine our attention to those of them which have been yielded by the largest number of individual observations of disturbance , viz. to the curves of Easterly disturbance of Declination and to the curves of disturbances decreasing the Horizontal Force , we shall find in them definitiveness of character and some remarkable points of correspondence and difl.erence that would seem to be deserving of attention .
We first note that , for the synodic period of Venus , the curves of Declination and Horizontal Force have their principal inflections alike , and that this likeness attaches , though in a less , to the curves for the synodic periods of Merculy and Jupiter , in common with those for Venus ; secondly , that whilst the curves of Venus are strikingly bolder and more definite for the nodic period than for the sidereal period , there is no very marked difference in the case of the curves of Mercury .
Again , we note the close resemblance in the two curves of the Earth and in the two of Mercury for its sidereal period\mdash ; in the lattel case of so precise a kind that , keeping in mind that the curves are derived from independent obselvations with instruments of different construction , it is difficult to suppose that they do ot indicate a real periodicity in nature .
29 .
It is not claimed for these investigations that they account for any substantial part of the so-called decennial variation of niagnetic disturbance , but only that there may be , and probably are , subordinate planetary variations of the kind described , which are superimposed upon the more strongly marked decennial variation , and that if they are , they are included with the variations that have been deduced from the observations .
It must be allowed , too , that , until the character of the decennial variation be out more fully than as yet ( by a great extension of the period of observation ) , doubt must remain as to whether these apparent variations which follow the periods of the planets may not be due , wholly or in part , to the imperfect elimination of the decennial variation .
The irregularities observed in the duration of the sun-spot period , with general correspondence in magnetic disturbance , as far as observation permits the comparison , would seem to indicate that the decennial period itself must be arded as subordinate to some more extended period , in the recurrence of which the larities alluded to would be repeated in the same order .
It is for this reason that we have not attempted , from the twenty-six years of observations available , to detel.mine the duration and character of the decennial variation , considering that such an under- taking would , with present data , be to a great extent labour in vain .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. .
page 210 .
It is also because the decennial period would greatly affect the apparent vanation of magnetic disturbance following the sidereal period of Jupiter , that no attempt has been made to apply these observations , extending over less than three such periods , to the determination of the character of that variation .
APPENDIX .
Dernonstrations .
First set .
To find the sum of each of the following series:\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) . .
( 4 ) . .
( 5 ) . . .
( 6 ) . .
If X , ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) .
( d ) If , ( e ) , .
( f ) . .
( g ) And when and , these become respectively , .
( h ) , .
( i ) , ( j ) ' ( k ) , .
( 1 ) OF OF COMPLEX PERIODICAL PIIENOMENA .
, ( m ) .
( n ) When and to ( d ) have the same values as in ( h ) to ( k ) respectively , and ( e ) to ( g ) become as follows:\mdash ; , . . . . .
( o ) , ( p ) .
( q ) ( 1 ) Hence , by giving the values 1 , 2 , 3 . . . .
, \amp ; c. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. , Now adding , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) which , when and , becomes , . . . . . . . . . .
which , when , whether or not is or a multiple of ] ( 0 ) If in ( 3 ) be made and , .
, . .
which , when . . .
to which adding , we have or do .
according as is not or is or a multiple of ; or ( say ) , ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) sin .
( 6 ) which , when and ( see equations ( h ) , ( i ) , ( 1 ) , and ( m ) , .
( 7 ) , ( 8 ) which , when being an integer , .
( 9 ) ; and as , when is not or a multiple of . . .
But when is or a multiple of , each term of the series is , and . .
Now let and , and ( 6 ) becomes 1 cos ( 10 ) hich , when ( 11 ) ; OF OF PERIODICAL PHENOMENA .
and as .
except is or a multiple of , in which case Again , multiplying equation ( 6 ) by ( 12 ) , ( 14 ) which , when and .
( 15 ) which , when .
( 16 ) ; and as , when is not or a multiple of But when is or a multiple of , each term of the series is , and . .
Now let and , and ( 14 ) becomes ( 18 ) which , when ( 19 ) , ( 20 ) . . .
( 21 ) and as except when is or a multiple of , in which case . . .
Collecting together equations , , , , ( lla ) , ( llb ) , , , , and , we have , according as is not or is or a multiple of sin , or cos , or , or , or OF OBSERVATIONS OF COMPLEX PERIODICAL PHENOMENA .
, or or Demonstrations .
Second set .
To find when , , and are multiples of if , and and are positive and integral .
( 1 ) being a positive integer , when ( 2 ) , when , which can only be integral when is a multiple ( 3 ) , which can only be integral when is a multiple of 13 .
( 4 ) , when , which can only be integral when is a multiple of 8 .
MESSRS .
C. AND F. ClfAMBERS ON Tffl MATHEMATICAL EXPRESSION Specimen Calculation of BESSEL'S Coefficients , for variation of Aggregate * Commencing with March 1847 .
Easterly Disturbance of Declination in the Sidereal Period of Mercury .
Disturbance .
bIDCCCLXXV Conumencing with Maroh .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: . .
: Phil. .
1875 .
Pla .
of ' THE EARTH Phil. Trans. 1875 .
Phte 54 .
' NI ERCUR UPITER .
of the Pe :

