394 Prof. Carnelley and Mr. J. S. Haldane .
[ June 16 , with chemical reagents under the microscope , the following reactions were observedOn running in between the slide and cover-slip a solution of iodine in potassium iodide , a brown deposit was obtained .
On running in concentrated nitric acid on another slide containing a drop or two of the secretion , a yellow coloration was formed , due to the formation of xanthoproteic acid .
These two reactions show the presence of albumin in the secretion of the organ in question .
( d. ) The soluble ferment secreted by the columnar cells of the epithelium of the gland was extracted according to the Wittich-Kistiakowsky method ( ' Pfluger , Archiv Physiol. , ' vol. 9 , pp. 438\#151 ; 459 ) .
The isolated ferment converts fibrin into leucin and tyrosin .
( e. ) No glycocholic and taurocholic acids could be detected by the Pettenkofer and other tests .
No glycogen was found in the organ or its secretion .
( / .
) The secretion contains leucin and tyrosin .
From these investigations the conclusion to be drawn is that the so-called " liver " of Patella vulgata is similar in function to the pancreas of the vertebrate division of animal life .
XVII .
" The Air of Sewers .
" By Professor Carnelley , D.Sc .
, and J. S. Haldane , M.A. , M.B. , University College , Dundee .
Communicated by Sir H. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received May 21 , 1887 .
( Abstract ) .
Owing to the complaints which had been made of bad smells in 4he House of Commons a Select Committee was appointed in the spring of 1886 to inquire into the ventilation of the House .
By that Committee the authors were instructed to make a series of analyses of the air in the sewers under the Houses of Parliament , and to report thereon .
Since then they have examined a considerable number of sewers in Dundee , and have also made a number of laboratory experiments .
The object of the research was to obtain a general idea of the amount of some of the more important impurities in sewer air , and to throw some light on their sources , and the conditions affecting their dissemination .
After giving a brief resume of the results of the analyses which had been previously made of sewer air , the authors describe the methods they have employed , and the nature and condition of the .'Sewers they have themselves examined .
As a result of their investigation they found\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the air of \#166 ; [ 887 .
] The Air of Sewers .
395 the sewers examined was in a much better condition than might have been expected .
( 2 .
) That the carbonic acid was about twice , and the organic matter rather over three times as great as in outside air at the same time , whereas the number of micro-organisms was less .
( 3 .
) That in reference to the quantity of the three constituents named the air of the sewers was in a very much better condition than that of naturally ventilated schools , and that with the notable exception of organic matter it had likewise the advantage of mechanically ventilated schools ( cf. paper by the authors and Dr. Anderson in 'Phil .
Trans , ' 1887 ) .
( 4 .
) That the sewer air contained a much smaller number of micro-organisms than the air of any class of house , and that the carbonic acid was rather greater than in the air of houses of four rooms and upwards , but Jess than in two- and one-roomed houses .
As regards organic matter , however , the sewer air was only slightly better than the air of one-roomed houses , and much worse than that of other classes of houses .
( The data for all the classes of houses refer to sleeping rooms when occupied during the night .
) The amount of carbonic acid found by the authors was much less than that noted by earlier observers , showing that the sewers they examined were much better ventilated than those previously investigated .
On taking the average of a comparatively large number of analyses it was found that the quantity of organic matter in sewer air increased with the carbonic acid , whereas the micro-organisms on the whole decreased with increase of the other constituents .
With regard to the sources of the several impurities in sewer air the following conclusions are drawn :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The carbonic acid in excess of outside air may be partly due to diffusion from the neighbouring soil , but its chief source is probably the oxidation of the organic matter in the sewage and in the air of the sewer .
( 2 .
) The organic matter in excess of outside air is most probably wholly or for the most part gaseous , and is of course derived from the sewage itself .
( 3 .
) The micro-organisms in sewer air come entirely , or nearly so , from the outside , and are not derived , or only in relatively small numbers , from the sewer itself .
This is proved by the following facts :\#151 ; , the average number of micro-organisms in sewer air was less than in outside air at the same time\#151 ; viz. , about 9 in the former to 16 in the latter .
Second , the number increased with the efficiency of the ventilation .
Third , the average proportion of moulds to bacteria in sewer air was almost exactly the same as in outside air at the same time , whereas one would expect the proportion to be very different were the outside air not the source from which they were derived , seeing that such a difference has been proved to exist in the air of houses , schools , \amp ; c. Fourth , the naked eye appearance of the colonies from sewer air is Dr. A. Scott .
[ June 16 , similar to that of those from ordinary air .
Fifth , the state of filthiness of a sewer seems to have no perceptible effect on the number of micro-organisms .
Sixth , the view that the micro-organisms in sewer air chiefly come from outside , is in perfect agreement with what is known as to the distribution of bacteria in air .
Seventh results obtained in the laboratory with an experimental sewer prove that the micro-organisms present in air are diminished to nearly one-half in passing along a moist tube 5 feet long and If inch in diameter at a rate of nearly 1 foot per second .
Although most of the micro-organisms in sewer air come from outside , yet there was distinct evidence of their occasional dissemination from the sewage itself .
This is the case when splashing occurs , owing to drains entering the sewer at points high up in the roof .
It is , therefore , of great importance that drains should be so arranged as to avoid splashing as much as possible .
In view of the fact that ordinary sewer air is to all appearance comparatively\#166 ; innocent as regards its micro-organisms , experiments were also made to see whether it contained any poisonous volatile base of the nature of a ptomaine .
These experiments so far as they went had negative results .
Experiments as to the efficacy of ordinary water traps in preventing the escape of sewer gas into houses confirmed and extended the results previously obtained by Fergus .
Though the authors do not discuss the effect of the inhalation of sewer air on health , yet the results of tho above investigation are clearly such as to make one much more suspicious as to supposed evidence of the bad effects of ordinary sewer air ( at least when not vitiated by splashing ) , such as that examined by them .
XVIII .
" On the Composition of Water by Volume .
" By Alexander Scott , M.A. , D.Sc .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received May 23 , 1887 .
In 1805 Gay-Lussac and Humboldt published their classical researches on the composition of the atmosphere , and to them we are indebted for our knowledge of the proportion by volume in which hydi'ogen and oxygen combine to form water .
Without this knowledge the determination of the relative densities of the two gases would be of no use in fixing or checking their atomic weights .
This is often overlooked , and Avogadro 's law taken as absolutely true for these gases at ordinary temperatures and pressures .
That this cannot safely be assumed is conclusively proved by the researches of Regnault , Amagat , and others on the effects of change of temperature and pressure upon them .
Rot only do they not follow Boyle 's law as usually

