II .
" On the Spectra of some of the Fixed Stars .
" By W. h1mG .
GINS , F.R.A.S. , and WILLIAM A. MILL :R , M.D. , LL. D. , Treasurer &amp; V.P.R.S. , Professor of Cheinistry , King 's College , London .
Received -April 28 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) After a few introductory remarks , the authors describe the apparatus which they employ , and their general method of observing the spectra of the fixed stars and planets .
The spectroscope contrived for these inquiries was attached to the eye end of a refracting telescope of 10 feet focal length , with an 8-inch achromatic object-glass , the whole mounted equatorially and carried by a clock-movement .
In the construction of the .
spectroscope , a plano-convex cylindrical lens , of 14 inches focal length , was employed to convert the image of the star into a narrow line of light , which was made to fall upon a very fine slit , behind which was placed an achromatic collimating lenls .
The dispersing portion of the arrangement consisted of two dense flint-glass prisms ; and the spectrum was viewed through a small achromatic telescope with a magnifying power of between 5 and 6 diameters .
Angular measures of the different parts of the spectrum were obtained by means of a micrometric screw , by which the position of the small telescope was regulated .
A reflecting prism was placed over one half of the slit of the spectroscope , and by means of a mirror , suitably adjusted , the spectra of comparison were viewed simultaneously with the stellar spectra .
This light was usually obtained from the induction spark taken between electrodes of different metals .
The dispersive power of the apparatus was sufficient to entable the observer to see the line Ni of Kirchhoff between the two solar lines D ; and the three constituents of the magnesium group at b are divided still nor evidently * .
Minute details of the methods adopted for testing the exact coincidence of the corresponding metallic lines with those of the solar and lunar spectrum , are given , and the authors then proceed to give the results of their observations .
Careful examination of the spectrum of the light obtained from various points of the moon 's surface failed to show any lines resembling those due to the earth 's atmosphere .
The planets Venus , Mars , Juipiter , and Saturn were also examined for atmospheric lines , but none such could be discovered , though the characteristic aspect of the solar spectrum was recognized in each case ; and several of the principal lines were measured , and found to be exactly coincident with the solar lines .
Between forty and fifty of the fixed stars have been more or less completely examined ; and tables of the measures of about 90 lines in Aldebaran , nearly 80 in a Orionis , and 15 in , B Pegasi are given , with diagramns of the lines in the two stars first named .
These diagrams include the results of the comparison of the spectra of various terrestrial elements with those of the star .
In the spectrum of Aldebaran coincidenice with nine of the elementary bodies were observed , viz. sodiuim , magnesium , hydrogen , calciumn , iron , bismuth , tellurium , antimony , and mercury ; in seven other cases no coincidence was found to occur .
In the spectrum of a Orionis five cases of coincidence were found , viz. sodium , magnesium , calcium , iron , and bismuth , whilst in the case of ten other metals no coincidence with the lines of this stellar spectrum was found .
fi Pegasi fuirnished a spectrum closely resembling that of a Orionis in appearance , but much weaker : only a few of the lines admitted of accurate measurement , for want of light ; but the coinicidence of sodium and magniesium was ascertained ; that of barium , iron , and manganese was doubtful .
Four other elements were found not to be coincident .
In particular , it was noticed that the lines C and F , corresponding to hydrogen , which are present in nearly all the stars , are wanting in a Orionis and 3 Pegasi .
The investigation of the stars which follow is less complete , and no details of measurement are given , though several points of much interest have been ascertained .
Sirius gave a spectrum containing five strong lines , and numerous finer lines .
The occurrenlce of sodium , magnesium , hydrogen , and probably of iron , was shown by coincidence of certaini lines in the spectra of these metals with those in the star .
In a Lyrce the occurrence of sodium , magnesium , and hydrogen was also shown by the same means .
In Capella sodium was shown , and about twenty of the lines in the star were measured .
In Arcturus the authors have measured about thirty lines , and have observed the coincidence of the sodium line with a double line in the starspectrum .
In Pollux they obtained evidence of the presence of sodium , magnesium , and probably of iron .
The presence of sodium was also indicated in Procyon and a Cygni .
In lno single instance have the authors ever observed a star-spectrum in which lines were not discernible , if the light were sufficiently intense , and the atmosphere favouirable .
Rigel , for instance , which some authors state to be free from lines , is filled with a multitude of fine lines .
Photographs of the spectra of Sirius and Capella were taken upon collodion ; but though tolerably sharp , the apparatus employed was not sufficiently perfect to afford any indication of lines in the photograph .
In the concluding portion of their paper , the authors apply the facts observed to an explanation of the colours of the stars .
They consider that the difference of colour is to be sought in the difference of the constitution of the investing stellar atmospheres , which act by absorbing particular portions of the light emitted by the incandescent solid or liquid photosphere , the light of which iri each case they suppose to be the same in quality originally , as it seems to be independent of the chemical nature of its constituents , so far as observation of the various solid and liquid elementary bodies , when rendered incandescent by terrestrial means , appears to indicate .

