A paper was read , " On a peculiar class of Acoustical Figures ; and on certain forms assumed by groups of particles upon vibra ?
ting elastic surfaces .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , F.R.S. , M.R.I. , Corresponding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris , &amp;c. When elastic plates on which sand has been strewed are thrown into sonorous vibrations , the grains of sand arrange themselves in lines which indicate the quiescent parts of the plate , and have been called the nodal lines .
This fact was discovered by Chladni , who also observed that the minute shavings cut by the edge of a glass plate from the hairs of the violin bow employed to produce the vi ?
bration , collected together on those parts of the plate that were most violently agitated , that is , at the middle of the lines of oscillation , or portions into which the plate is divided by the nodal lines .
The same phenomenon is exhibited by lycopodium , or any other very light and finely divided powder .
This subject was investigated by M. Savart , who , in a paper read to the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris in the year 1817 , endeavouredto account for this latter class of phenomena by deducing from the primary divisions of the parts of vibrating bodies , certain secondary modes of divi sion , comprising parts that remain horizontal during every stage of e the vibration , and which therefore may admit of the settlement there of light powders , while heavier powders can be stationary only at the points of absolute rest .
This explanation not appearing to the author to be satisfactory , he made a great number of experiments , which are detailed at length in the present paper , showing that the immediate cause of these motions exists in the surrounding medium , and is to be found in the currents arising from the mechanical action of the plate , while vibrating upon that portion of the medium which is in contact with the plate .
These currents are directed from the quiescent lines towards those parts where the oscillation is the greatest , and meet ?
ing from opposite sides at these central points , thence proceed perpendicularly from the vibrating surface to a certain distance ; and finally , receding from each other , return again in a direction to ?
wards the nodal lines .
The combination of these motions constitutes vortices carrying with them any light particles which may lie in the way of the currents .
While in motion , the powders sustained by these vortices appear in the form of clouds , the particles of which have among themselves an intestine motion of revolution , rising in the centre of the heap , and rolling down again on the outer sides .
The powders are collected in the same situations on the vibrating plate , although the plate may be considerably inclined to the hori ?
zon , and remain there even when the inclination is so great as to prevent grains of sand from resting on the nodal lines .
A piece of gold leaf laid upon the plate was raised up in the form of a blister at that part which corresponded with the centre of the clouds , even to the height of one-twelfth of an inch .
On attaching small pieces of card to different parts of the surface of the vibrating plate , the currents of air are modified in various ways , as shown by the different positions of the clouds , and the pro ?
duction of partial accumulations of the powders .
When a tuningfork is made to vibrate , and a little powder of lycopodium is sprinkled over it , the powder collects into clouds on the middle of the upper surface , and also forms heaps along its sides , exhibiting in a striking manner the intestine revolution of their particles .
These effects are also well illustrated by vibrating membranes ?
for which purpose a piece of parchment was stretched , and tied while moist over the mouth of a funnel , and made to vibrate by means of ahorsehair , having a knot at the end , passed through a hole in the centre of the parchment ; the hair being drawn between the finger and thumb , to which a little powdered rosin was previously applied .
The phenomena were still more conspicuous when the parchment was made to vibrate under a glass plate held near it .
When the interval between the membrane and the glass plate was very small , the whole of the powder was sometimes blown out at the edge , m consequence of the vibrating membrane acting as a bellows .
Reasoning from the theory which the author had framed in explanation of these phenomena , he conceived that if the currents were weakened by placing the apparatus in rarefied air , they would no longer be capable of sustaining the light powders , which would then be collected , like the heavy powders in air , at the nodal lines .
In a denser medium , such as water , the reverse should happen ; the heavy powders should be carried along by the more powerful currents then produced , and would accumulate in the vibrating parts .
All these conclusions were found to be fully verified by actual experiment .

