]\gt ; Fog Signals .
Fog .\mdash ; Areas of Silence of By A. MALLOCK , ( Received June 19 , \mdash ; Read June 25 , 1914 .
) The experience of Trinity House in to the audibility of sound signals has brought to notice the fact that on occasions the sound may be heard near the source and again at a considerable distance , while inaudible between these positions .
This was first observed , or at least prominently brought forward , by Prof. Tyndall .
The statement was regarded with some scepticism by scientific men at the time , but the explanation of the effect of wind on sound given by Prof. G. Stokes*will , with a little amplification , suffice also the silent areas .
Stokes in this explanation ( which was repeated by HenryT and by Osborne Reynolds ) points out that the speed of the wind , in consequence of the surface friction of the ground , increases with the cvhb , and that since the velocity of sound is constant not with reference to the round , bul to the air through which the sound travels , the front of a plane wave vertical at some given instant will subsequently lean backwards if again st the wind , and forwards if with the wind .
Or , in other words , the sound tends to leave the ground in the first case and to cling to it ill the second .
If one may use such a word as a ' ray\ldquo ; in connection with sound , the ray to windward is deflected upwards , and the ray to }vard , downwards .
The * Stokes , ' Brit. Assoc Dublin , 1857 .
Henry , " " Researches in Sound 'Annual Report of the U.S.A. Lighthouse Osborne Reynolds , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc Apri125 , 1874 .
Mr. A. Mallock .
actual velocity of the wind has only a small effect in either case of the order of the ratio of the speed of the wind to that of sound ) , the operative cause being the velocily gradient .
In the case ions of silence , on both sides of which the'same sound can be heard , all that has to be accounted for is how a sound ray can form , as it were , an arch over the silent region .
can evidently happen if the velocity gradients in the wind at appropriate levels , and it is a very simple calculation ( given later ) to determine gradients are required in order that a ray .
the normal to the wave-front ) shall follow a harmonic curve ofiven amplitude and wavelength .
* The fact that areas of silence are ( though not actually rare ) not common , points to somewhat exceptional conditions required for their development .
The presence of radients at comparatively low levels also occurs , it may be said ( there is not much detailed information on the subject ) , with the same order of , and if the two phenomena were found to be always or generally present ) , the suggested explanation receive some ) ; but , as is well known , variation of wind velocity is not the only cause of deviation in a sound ray : which causes variation of velocity in different parts of the wave-front will have a like effect .
The velocity of sound is proportional , among other things , to the square root of the absolute temperature , and in fact a temperature change of 1o C. corresponds to nearly 2 feet per second change of velocity .
As a rule , the temperature of the atmosphere falls as the altitude creases , so that , as a rule also , all sound rays which start horizontally from a source near the round are deflected upwards , whatever may be their azimuthal direction , and it is probably to this that , even on calm days , intense sounds are audible at sea to such very moderate distances .
Lord has pointed out into account the energy which is known to be put into sound waves emitted by some of the coast fog signals , and the smallness of the wave amplitude which is known to be audible ) that were it not for some extraneous cause such nals would be heard at distances exceeding 1800 miles , instead of ths 10 or 12 which experience shows to be the usual limit .
papel waHWl.itte I find that Lord Rayleigh , in the second editio ] ] of ' The of ' ( which 1 had seen ) , iven ( vol. 2 , p. 134 ) the differential of path of a soulld when the ) city is continuously variable.\mdash ; Oct. 19 , 1914 .
There w be no difliculty in observing this by the aid of pilot balloons .
Fog Signals .
At certain times , however , reversals of the temperature gradient are to be met with , especially in the evening , when the air next the ground is cooled by radiation , and thus forms a pond of cold air under a warmer layer .
In such cases the effect on sound in all azinluths is of the same kind as that observed to of a source when the wind velocity increases with the height .
This has been given as a probable explanation of the increased audibility of sounds at night .
To consider these points quantitatively , suppose that it is required to find the distribution of wind velocity at various elevations which will cause a ray of sound to follow a simple harmonic curve of wave-length and amplitude .
The wind is assumed to be horizontal and constant at each altit , ude , but to vary with the altitude .
Since the ray is to follow a curved path , the wave-front must contain the radius of curvature , and , in fact , the wave-front may be considered as if it were a flat plate attached to the radius of curvature .
Consider a ray which starts horizontally at ground level , and let its assigned path be horizontal , vertical ) , where is the assigned amplitude and .
If and are the velocities of sound and of the wind respectively , the velocity of the wave-front is , and the velocity gradient .
For a harmonic curve where the amplitude is small compared to the .
Hence .
Put and let it be a condition that the wind velocity is zero at round level .
Then the velocity gradient is , ( l ) .
shows these results graphically for a harmonic curve for which miles and mile .
Mr. A. Mallock .
oyed , ength tapid whewhich tound iotethe purface oround Tistance boSound , path oourse , boundary ohedifferences aordinates oparab.hose ahsecond .
Above tgain tocity imaximum ahere reaches 8 transition from sound to silence .
If the diffraction of sound is treated in the same way as diffraction o , f plane waves of light ) assing the edge of a screen ( and for such small curvatures as are considered the method is applicable as an approximation ) the first minimum , at distance from bhe source , occurs at from the geometrical path .
The wave-lengths emitted by sirens are of the order of 6 feet or , say mile .
Thus at 5 miles the sound would be just inaudible ( or , rather , would pass a minimum ) at mile , that is between 500 and 600 feet below the harmonic curve .
The boundary of silence is shown in the by the dotted line .
It would appear , then , that in the example given there would be a silent area to windward about 3 miles wide , innin ' at mile from the source of sound .
In the example it has been supposed that the temperature was everywhere constant , but in normal conditions the temperature of the atmosphere near the earth 's surface falls with the height at the rate of about C. per mile , and in consequence , as has been observed by Stokes and others , the direction of a sound proceeding horizonfa ] is gradually directed upwards .
A difference of temperature of C. lowers the velocity of sound by about 20 feet per second .
Henoe a plane lvave will advance as if it were carried by a radius 55 miles , and if the raction effect is estimated as before , a sound ray which horizontal]y from and follows circle of 55 miles radius may be expected to be inaudible , whatever its initial loudness , when the distance of the circle from the ground is ; that is , when , or , so that , if mile and miles nearly .
* This cannot be said to disagree greatly with experience .
Many cases are recorded in which the sound is inaudible at less than 8 miles , and many also * Even if*was the greatest wave-length recognisable as sound this distance would be only doubled .
Fog Signals .
where the range is much greater , but at any rate is the order of distance to which a sound generated near the ground level can be heard at the same level in still air with the normal temperature gradient .
On the whole , it is the audibility of distant sounds rather than the reverse which requires explanation , but the known velocity gradients and of temperature at various levels seem amply sufficient for the purpose .
Sounds which have their origin at a considerable height can be heard at greater distances .
Thunder , for instance , is occasionally heard when the flash which gives rise to it does not even show on the horizon , and this would indicate a distance of the order of 50 to 100 miles .
The phenomena of the deviation of sound rays present a considerable analogy to mirage , wind and temperature gradients taking the place of variation of refractive index .
Many interesting experiments on the propagation of sound under various conditions still await trial , but such experiments could only be undertaken by a government , or at any rate would be very costly if carried out privately .
They could not be made on English coasts or where they might interfere with navigation , there are many small islands in lonely seas in various latitudes which , at various times of the year , would be appropriate for the purpose .
* This refers chiefly to experiments at VOL. XCI.\mdash ; A.

