]\gt ; 1888 .
] On the Logarithmic Law of tomic Weicf one part in of absolute alcohol at .
No hydrate was obtained by evaporating its aqueous solution , but the same crystalline forms were deposited as from ) .
With barium chloride it behaves similarly to the neutral salt , a partial tion place only with ifficulty .
It possesses much gre er stability than the ncutral saIt , but like the latter it is reduced by sulphurous acid and stannou ' ; chloride , and oxidised by chlorine .
Potash it with evolution of ammonia , but hydrochloric , nitric , or acid only a 'ction upon it in the cold .
Kcpt a vacuum or in of air , it is appreeiably latile at tures .
When hcated , a portion of it sublimes part of it is convel.ted into selenite , while the tindel .
is decornposed into a residue of fused nium .
In order to estimate the amount of ammonia precipitated by platinum chloride , was taken , which yielded gram of the double chloride , equivalent to .
cent. of ammonia , the lmount t equttl to per cellf , of the total monnt of ammonia in tho salt .
Relation of the Selenosamates to Componn\amp ; .
It is stated that a compound is formed by the action of on sulphur dioxide , but the description of its propet.ties shows that it does not spond with the seIenosamates .
The latt , er bodies lJond more closely with the compounds which sulphur trioxide forms with amnlollia .
The molecule , , therefo , in these reactions acts to , rather than to what is usually regarded as its In conclut , , we are at prescnt in the production of othc ] .
selenosamates , and hope to give an account of them at an date .
VI .
On the Logarithmic Law of Atomic Weights By G. TONE S , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R. .
Received April lb 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This noir is divided into five sections .
Section l.\mdash ; Whcn Newlands pointed out the dependence of the atomicity and properties of some of the ical elements upon the order in which their atomic weights succeed one another , and especially when law was extended by Mendelejeff to all the elements , it became manifest that there exists a mathematical relation etween a series of numbers and the successi atomic weights of the elements .
On the Logarithmic Luw of Atomic Weigh ts .
[ Apr. 19 , In the first section the reason is pointed out why the search for this law has been fruitless , at least as hitherto pursued by the author .
The method he adopted was to plot down the atomic weights as ordinates of a diagram of which the abscissas represented some simple numerical series , and to endeavour to extract information from the resulting curves .
In this method atomic weights are represented by lines , the ordinates of the figure .
Now in the next section it will appear that , in that oase , the curve is represented by the equation\mdash ; and is complicated by not representing simple integer numbers , but a circnlar function of them .
The search , therefore , by this method was from the first hopeless , as the resulting curve is one which has not been studied by geometers , and of which accordingly the inquirer could not recognise the appearance when presented to him .
In Seotion anothel .
metbod pursued .
The successive atomic weights , instead of being represented by lines , are represented by volumes .
A succession of spheres are taken whose volumes are prortiona Q to the atomic weights , and which may be called the atomic Whem the radii of these spheres are plotted down on a diagram as ordinates , and a series of integers as abscissas , the general form of the .
logarithmic curve ( qx ) becomes apparent : and close scrntiny has shown that it expresses the real law of natul.e .
It is the central curve that threads its way through the positions given by observation , and the deviations from ; of the positions assigned by the actual atomic weights will be included by making a circular function of integer numbers , instead of those numbers themselves .
The first three terms of this function have been determined .
issue of the investigation is to show that when such a diagram is formed with ordinates which ars the cube roots of the atomic weights referred to hydrogen as unit , so bhat the inates may be the radii of spheres whose volumes represent the atomic weights\mdash ; 1 .
The logarithmic c , urve\mdash ; , ( where and threads its way tbrough the positions plotted down from the observations .
1888 .
] Presents .
117 2 .
In the case of the perissads ( the elements of uneven atomicity ) the complete curve which includes their perturbations from the central curve is\mdash ; subsequent t the next term being probably either\mdash ; 3 .
The form the function represenling the perturb tions of the a is , at all events after the third term .
3.\mdash ; There are bouring 1ithmic curves which pul.sue a course close to the observed positions , and in ction 3 the method adopted in dealing with these curves is described , and the lnds on which they have been successively excluded stated .
The evidence relied on has been , .
the mosb , that the perturbations them are less reducible to In Section 4 the curve hually selected is thrown into a and furnishes a of convenience for use .
lt presents conspicuously the information hich a ) Mcndelejeff 's table is capable of supplying , with the further advantage of also placing before the cye an intelligible representation of the atomic weights .
scctiou contains some observations gested by the invesation .
Presents , April 19 , 1888 .
Transactions .
\mdash ; Johus Hopkins University .
Vol. No. 64 .
ltimore 1888 .
The University . .
P. der Wissenschaften .
Sitzun , sberichte .
1887 .
Hefte 40-54 . .
Berlin .
The Academy .
Calcutta:\mdash ; Asiatic Society of .
Journal ( History ) . .
Part 2 .
Nos. 2-3 , .
Ditto ( Philology ) .
Vol. Part 1 .
Nos. 2-8 .
xlcntta 1887 ; Proceedings .
1887 .
Nos. 9-10 .
1888 .
No. 1 . .
The Society .
Camb.ridge , Mass .
:\mdash ; Harvard College .
Museum of Gomparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. XIII .
No. 7 . .
Cambridg 1888 .
The Museum .
Cherbourg :Societ Nationale des Sciences Naturelles et Mathematiques .
Memoires .
Tome XXV . .
Paris 1887 .

