]\gt ; IV .
A of Fnnctions in the Th eory of Numbers .
By or P. A. MAcMAHON , , F.R.S. Received .\mdash ; Rc No vembe ] ' 24 , 189.3 .
INTlioDucToBY ABSTRACT .
The present investigation arose from my " " Memoir on the Compositions of Numbers recently read before the Royal Society , and now in course of in the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' The main theorem may be stated as follows:\mdash ; If , . .
, be linear functions of quantities , . .
, given by the matricular relation that portion of the algebraic ction , .
, which is a function of the products , .
, only , is , where putting The proof of this theorem rests upon identity , for , is 7 .
, I , ' itnd is very sily established .
An deduction of theorem is the result that the generating function for the eoefficicnt , of ) in the oduct , . .
is ression 1 inyolveH the several minors of the determinant of ctions .
is of considerable arithmetical importallcc is.also of terest in of Th . .
enerating function .
The theorem .
exact generating fnn ction . .
lt of of symbols in the ' viousl the coefficient of . . .
RATING UNCTIONS TN THE thence we easily } ) to the true ting function the paper examples are iven .
Frequently the redundant and condensed functions are differently interpretable ; we then arithmetical dence , of presented themselyes in the " " Memoir on the CompositiollS of Numbers A more tant method of obtaining arithmetical ) orldences is devcloped in the researches which follow the statement and roof of ) theorem .
The general form of such the equation gives each quantity as a nnction of the remaini and it is interesting to enquire whether , the coefficients of it is possible to ) to a corresponding redundant I find coefficients of satisfy conditions , assuming the satisfaction these conditions , ndant f be constructed which involves undetermined quantities .
In fact , a redundant form exists it is necessarily of -tuply infinite character .
We are now able to pass from any pal'ticular redundant fnnction to an equivalent genel.ating function which involves Llndetermined } ntities .
these quantities at pleasure , we obtain a numbel of products , each of which may have its own meaning in aritbmetic , and the nunlbe of arithmetical correspondences enable is subject to no finite limit .
This tion of the theory is iven at length in the paper , with Incidentally interesting results obtained in the fields of special ) determinanlt theory .
The special ) , ) itself lor thi l proyisionally termed ' ' symmetric , \ldquo ; is that the cally placed in respcct to the have , oduct t the constituents on the itself of them to .
The determinant possesses many properties which of ) .
to ) ) cipal investigation of the paper .
The theorems are connected entirely vilh the , co-axial minors .
I find that the general of eve order , greater th11 ] is ) I I .
A. in irrational nction oflninors , whilst no deter1111 II at ( it is to asstltnc arbitrary cs for the deterof it , inors .
In of , bnt , these Cond iionS satisfied .
be constructed 1 .
1 .
In Ienloir on ' The Theory of the Composition of Numbers recently conn n Roy Society ( as above-mentioned ) , there occurred certain .
functions which tted i'transformations to redundant forms .
to theory of nsfoJ mations , and subsequently discuss consequences .
The main theorem is , in will fraction .
' fnnctions , of given by , . .
' . .
, . .
I .
involved to valnes the action is capable of oducts o . .
by convergent Art .
of sion is a of Il .
One object of this which , for some purposes , the of , that gencl { ting I , it is lently wl of ' ' of littlc nlomcn NFRATI NIONS IN TH1 OF NUll 1 I 1 Without specifying ( present the ning of the I will call the above-writfell the " " redundant \ldquo ; and the essent i to which reference been made , the " " condensed form .
As typical of put It will be shown that the conden sed form is , where The notation is that in use in the Theory of Deterrninants , the coefficients cf being the minors of the deterlninant ; this determinant the content of the matrix occurs in the definition of the linear ntics X X Art .
5 .
In determinant form may be written ' , and in the impol.tant symbolic form , wherein , after multiplication , the products are to be written in brackets .
Such symbolic multiplication will be denoted by external determlnant brackets as shown .
Art .
6 .
We have now RTAIN C OF .hccn ' the determinant .
iden tity not , expansion , contain any terms side of , of the coefficients only . .
Before ' to establish this , it may be rked that the above tity m lVl.itten in the orln : , in , is , established .
Art .
8 .
the order , the fraction to .
This action is specified by the first } ) , but is convenience , follows be to meet of a ction specified by selection of unequal and not superior to that this fr ction contains , on expansion , no terms which are functions of ' merely to show that eve ry in the developof ItAT , IN NU ; yi , evel .
} contains vitl that does not occul in the -product ; the fraction containls neither , .
; or , the same , the quantities , occurring ) in the only ones that are fofind in the fraction , the ninant should therefore vanish by ' The determinant is , . . .
, . . .
; , . .
utting the first is . . .
, . . .
and times the times the second , .
\amp ; c. , tinnes the element , we obtain zero .
A operation , performed on the elements of othel , likewise results in zero .
Hence inant vanishes on the supposition every , in its development , one least of ntiti e , . . . .
( J. , of order 3 , we have the identity ' by , of order , the identity . . .
by , of ctions involving , ator factors , and the of undel the nation sigll s , being in order .
\ldquo ; it the fraction ctio or latter a form of the RATlN G UNCTIONS IN Art .
10 .
The coefficients of the terms in the nsions of both actions , the same .
Hence , the coelfficient of the product in the expansion of algebraic fraction ' is equal to the same cient in the product where this product is a " " particular redundant generating function the use of which ren ders quantities , . .
to the statement of the theorem . .
The theorem regarded as a proposition concerning coaxial of a general deterlninant is very remarkable ; for it will be observed that we are able to exhibit the coefficient of in the " " particular redundant function\ldquo ; as a function of the coaxial minors of the determinanlt of the quantities .
2 .
Arithmetical .
Most of the arithmetical results that can be deduced arise duality of interpretation from algebra to arithmetic in particular cases .
In to which reference has been made .
cases presented themselves .
Art .
first one connected with the relation .
/ .
of the nposition of is will the , bnt that ) is of ] second founded on the relation 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , 1 , I , 1 , ' 1 , I , 1 , , I. .
I I leading the ) the ] ) , . .
in din odel of .
cases to lual in metic .
orem , , apparently only adnlits of a tion .
odncf coeilici in ich oduct 11U111I ) of ] ) eqs the ) ) ) occurs in occupied by an , , , .
, , , , , , , , , : : , , , , \ldquo ; , , , , , \ldquo ; , , , , : : : , , , , , , the proper generating f for the tioo of the 1 ) el.mutations possessing this propel .
tie is Art .
16 .
As an ] interesting particu ] .
case we find the ting function for the enumeration of those permutations of the qnantities in which possess the property that 110 quantity is in the originally occupied ; that is , in the permutation , no is to position ] occupied by all ving all values from 1 to ?
early we have merely to put and the remaining letters , , .
to .
The generating function involves the coaxial minors of the determinant of the order ' , . .
This the value , P. ON A RTAIN CLASS OF hile its have each the , and its minors each the value .
Hence the function is ' or writing .
, this is Art .
1 As example , consider the permutations of the quantities in Divide the places occupied by the quantities into compartments such that the first places are in compartment next last let us find the numbel of the .
permutations which have the property that no ntity wneven suffix is a compartment with an uneyen suffix , and no quantity eve snffix a compal.tment with an eyen suffix .
In generating function\ldquo ; we have merely to put . .
\amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , and letters equal to unity .
UNCTIONS IN HEORY O For the true general ( or condensed ) generating lnction we have thus to evaluate the minors of the chess-board pattern determinant of the order , , 1 , . .
1 , , 1 , , 1 . .
, 1 , , 1 , . . . .
Here , all the minors of Order 1 are zero .
A minor ( coaxial ) of Order 2 has either the ] zero or negative unity .
If the minor be formed by deletion of all rows except the and and all except the and the value will be zero , if , and will be negative unity in all other cases .
Coaxial minors of Order as well as the whole determinant vanish , because in every case two rows are found to be identical .
Hence the true generating function is which may be written Art .
18 .
Again for the enumeration of the permutations which are such that no quantity with an uneven suffix is in a compartment with an even suffix , and also no quantity with an even suffix is in a with an uneven suffix , we are led to the complementary chess-board pattern determinant : \mdash ; ' and thence to the true generating function I ' .
OF Art .
, if ib be ions of . .
in , , , , we to the truc ) in which we have to the of . .
Art .
20 .
in problem of " " ements in the Theory of Permutations.\ldquo ; to the ) tiolJ S of .
, .
it is to uf tions snch ) exactly of the symbols ) We the ] .
, .
in which the ) is ) Hicient of ' is derived from the coaxial of { ATTNG FUNCTTONS TN TH1 . .
Thence the true generating which constitutes a perfect solution of the problem of\ldquo ; derangement 3 .
Th Rcsumed .
denominator of a perfect generating function , of the un der consideration , is the mosu general function linear in each of riables x .
Let be the most general linear function of the quantities , involving independent Art .
22 .
I enquire , irrespective of arithmetical interpretation or correspondence , into the possibility of expr ssing the fraction in a factorized redundant form .
Art , 23 .
The coefficients of must be the several coaxial minors of some determinant , and the question arises : Can determinant be constructed such that minors assume given values The redundant form of order ?
involyes ? .
coefiicients .
In general , in order that the fraction may be expressible in a dant form , its coefficients must satisfy conditions , and , assuming the satisfaction of these conditions , redundant form involving arbitrary coefficients can be constructed .
MAJOR P. A. hIACMAHON ON ] CLASS OF re tion will be , and this to the conclusion the redundant form , when ossible , vnys of a infinite Art .
25 .
, subject to the -mentioned conditions , that there is an flexibility in the forms is of in the Theory of bers , because the of interpretation would appear to no finite limit .
Art .
26 .
Obselve that denotes the number of identical relations or syzygies connecting the coaxial minors of a general detelminaot of order discussion of the theory of ] first few orders forms a convenient ethod the general theory .
I take the general of as \mdash ; . . . . . ?
'he case This case is trivial the perfect form concidcs form ; Art .
20 .
In order that may be a redundant form of ' GENERATING FUNCTIONS we have and thence ( suppose ) ; introducing an undetermined quantity , we may where may be a function of the quantities ; but , numerically , may not be either zero or infinity .
The matricular relation is and the redundant form of a singly infinite character .
; Art .
30 .
The The matrix being that connected with the determinant we have the following relations ; and thence where ; lIAJOlt P. A OF introducing the utldetelmined ntities write and thence by substitution which may be written this is ( equation evaluation of ) , be written two of the three quantities , and the coficients of not subject to any condition .
The relation is either or the on involving the matrix .
to the boyo for undetermined quantities , and the roots of the aboveGENERATING liUNCTlONS TH giver ] dratic equation , which expressible fun ctiuns of the coefficients of .
The redundant form is 1 .
' of a doubly infinite character .
AIso , for Art .
31 .
The matrix being that connected with ) determinant the ; and thence and introducing six undetermined quantities , ' ' and thence by substitution in the remaining relations , 2 ' lIAi ( P. ON CLA OF , \mdash ; ' ' ' The six quantities that have been introduced must satisfy these tions .
vever , the six quantities only enter the equations in three combinations ; easily nsformed into the following five\mdash ; 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; ' , 1 , ' FUNCTIONS TH1 OF S. which involve on the three undetermined quantities From these five equations we can eliminate the three quantities and thus obtain two independent relations between the coefficients of the two conditions that the must satisfy in that a redundant may be possible .
Since also these coefficients are the several co-axial ors of the determinant we establish the fact that these co-axial minors connected by two relations or syzygies .
Thus ; and assum i satisfaction of these two conditions we can solve the equations so to as functions of the coefficients of Solving these equations and writing we find ; and assuming these four equations , as well as the fifth equation , con sistent , the just two systems of values of which satisfy all the equations .
Let the two values of be and , and further taking the all , let the the We have the solutions and we lJlayvite either or The undetermined quantities thus reducsd to the three for revity , , that define X is either or substitution of The cter and of two GENERAIING FUNCTIONS IN } Also for 4 , Art .
32 .
In order to proceed to the it is to make a sion for the purpose of establishing properties of a determinant of special form .
S4 .
Digression on the Tl , of Determinants .
Art .
33 .
The determinant of special which I have termed inversely symmetrical\ldquo ; is 1 .
which involves different quantities , and is such that the elements on the principal axis all unity , ( t)nd is inversely axi-symmetric in the sen se that elements , symmetrically placed in regard to the principal axis , ' a product equal to un ity .
Art .
34 .
The property of this detelminant , which is of vital imporb to the present investigation , may be stated as follows:\mdash ; " " The deterlninant , as well as all of its co-axial minors , may be exhibited as functions of combinations of the quantities To establish this , first , ider the determinant itself , and put .
so that Observe that the combinations 1 ) .
A. ON ARTAJN OF in ; it will be shown that the quantities those to which CllCG , made in bove stement of theorem .
Art .
the ma.y be jtten : 1 1 1 , / 1 transformed , without alteration of value , by the following operations snccessively .
column by , , row column \ldquo ; row column \ldquo ; row , , column row \ldquo ; \ldquo ; , column UNCTIO N it then ssun ) the form- .
1\mdash ; , which tion s oi ' the also ] ( , bub also tlinor d. In to the occurrence of three onals of units , we have the ] inyersely symmetrical ninant .
Art . .
We next to consider the minol of ordelined I deletion of the row .
column .
The .
successive tions , which do llot alter the value , have then to ) Multiply 1 .
col un , \ldquo ; \ldquo ; , 1st row by , , , , , , .
To represent esult conveniently , suppose the determinant divided into four by the lines of deletion , I. Il .
We the obtain\mdash ; ATlNG FUNCTIONS IN OF ( - CLASS OF .
inyerscly lninant of normal form involving the II , elelnents , other than the units , The nsformed of the Ininor is derived from the llll ) deletion of the row and column , ) the sub , elcment the coml ) al.tnlent II by ) multielellcnt in by if .
bc formed from the determinant . . .
the . . .
columnlS , minor will be obtained the transformed complete determine ant 1 of the rows columns , and subsequent division of all at the ) to the of the column tion of the symmetrical elements by tity .
' before , we ) the divided into four the rule with referellCC to .
It will be convenielJt to to to the suppose cleleted .
In we have other fonr compartments , ; and there bc certain xtent of , of rtments . .
The rule is ( after deletion from transformed complete ) Divide elements in by tion of the inversely elements .
If it yjll be fouod those elements which are in both bc divided by rulc tion of the minor when are any number of the will be now perfectly clear .
to exhibit all the minors of the determinant of quantities of these interesting ninants suffices for present GENERATING CTIONS IN OF Art .
42 .
Th The matrix that connected with the determinant we have the ] ations as well as other relations , . . .
, connected with the co-axial minors of order greater than 2 .
From the relation is derived ( suppose ) .
We now introduce undetermined quantities such that and substitute in the remaining relations .
The typical relation then becomes ' In the the quantities occur in in versely symmetrical manner , and the determinant ) ecomesinvel.sely symmetrical on the quantities and equal to unity . .
The determinant is transformable in the as the corresponding inyersely netri c , and .
" " ression \ldquo ; establishes the fact that tntities clll .
in some of combinations , where Hencc are presented equations ntities Art 44 .
liminating these 1 quantities , we find he ninors of the the coefficients of satisfy GENERATING Art .
46 .
the satisfaction ?
these conditions ) solve the tions so as to express the tntities in terms of the coefficients of Hence we can express the quantities , in terms of the quantities thus reducing the nulnber of undetel.mined quantities to Art .
47 .
We have while the matrix , which defines . .
X of the dant f ( 1 or matrix similar to this with written for Postponing particular explanation to rntities ] that is a value of luced f the equations .
The quantity been defined to be , / The trix involves itnt i ON CLASS OF or , the nndetermined quantities to be , . .
nt form is thus of the ture to be tion quantities can be lakcn equations connected the co-axial ] ninors of Order 3 .
One equation is and this atic equation for If , be integers , this is simply a quadratic equation for Hence , the at once .
The alltities are foun(1 by ) aid is lity , and Thence , is found in the quantities , are easily found .
the } fficients of to tisfy the above-mentioned conditions , .
to find , stems of of the quantities which satisfy the equations in I iind there two Rllch systems , ined respectively by taking the tl in the solutionls of th quadratic equations .
In the one tion t taken positive in the other all NLRATING UNCTIONS IN OF Let 1 be the vadue of ined by always taking positive that vadue obtained by signs .
We have the system the .
There thus two represen tions of the redundant fornl , ed quantities . .
Given ) redundant form of order the trix we may exhibit its two representations , each involving ntities .
The cocfficients of the condellsed now necessarily satisfy the ) and through the condensed must , in the matrix of Arb .
48 , write nd it only to finud values of in terms of the elemel of Solving the quadratic equation ' transformed from Art .
48 , we find or taking the positiye sign and taking the negative sign Hence , if , be the value of deduced by always positive and that value arising from the negative signs , we find ' ' ( / cell jlced , so no in to elements of the atrix of the form are analogous to in to the It is to two systems of values ' 1 , 1 , of the quantities , satisfy the whole of the equations , but I do not stol ) to ) are the only systems of of Snbstitutin , of obtain two rel'resentations / / ' and the second is obtainable from the hrst by writing .
These redundant to the same condensed form , from the matrix Further we have here the most general forms of such their co-axial minors coincide with those of the determinant The matrix reverts to its nary f on putting ' in the first representation , or , on putting in the second representation .
The transverse matrix is obtained , from the first representation , by putting Art .
50 .
The function V which has entered in such a fundamentally manner into the analysis appears to havc1 place the leral t ) eory of matrices .
ourselves , for } ) icity , to the , it be ] that rERo terms the function the latent function of the matrix ; This function appears very in pure .
to physics .
From it can be derived a function of three .
: .
IsIACAIAHON ON A CLRTATN CLASS OF ( , \amp ; c. , and multiplying by by -- 1 when the order is - ' \mdash ; 1 \mdash ; Thus the latent fun ction is a of the fun ction V. In the discussion of the roots of the latent function we concerned with the order cuity of the 1natrix bc any integer of the series , . .
In of function V , which may be called the phic function of the matrix , it is that a more refined nature of is pertirlent to the discusslol .
We to consider not lnerely the vanishing of the sum of all th co-axial whose order given , but rather the varlishing of each separ te co-axial llinoy .
It be remal.ked that the ) phic funcbion V vanishes for the system of values of \ldquo ; satisfies the equations S6 .
the eneral TheorJ of The has established the fact that the co-axial general of Order , are connected by words , that of them can assume given values .
Of a ulnl)cire cected in a special manner with the Order , in that they not elations merely between the coaxial of on of the principal coaxial of the detel.lninant .
this ) .
be , put .
( f ) RATING UNCTION S IN OF whence and \mdash ; . . .
; and , by summation , we obtain the result showing that Hence , when the determinant is of eyeu order greater than two , there are two special between minors these two relations ) thrown into which exhibit the as an irrational function of its coaxiad minors .
In the of a determinant of uneyen order special relations exist between the coaxial , and it is not possible to ) ress the determinant as function of its coaxial Art .
52 .
In the investigation we met with equations involving the ntities and the coaxial minols of the first three orders of the determinant Hence , by elimination , we find identical between such coaxial minors .
Also we found * It is evident that these relations must occur in pairs in lance with the Complcis so taIlt in the geueral theory of P. ATTON ON RTAIN CLASS OF ' the ntiti e-axial minors of the first orders of the Hence , elimination , we find tions 1yeen s Special to the } of , we thus find relations be greater .
The one , special ( this standpoint ) to the determinant of even eater t , is obtained by eliminating the determinant itself from the two id ntical ave referred Art .
53 .
I take this ) Ol.tunity of yerifying the statements made in Art .
49 in regard to systems of values of the quantities tjsfy the equations .
It is , i11 reality , a question .
the properties of determinants .
ensure that the coefficients the condensed form satisfy the requisite contions , assulne them to be from the determinant We of the type This for , has only two roots , and it is easy to verify the the values Art .
4 these have ) ined b solvi so vlng the quadratic , and it was to the positive and respectively .
GENE R FUNCTIONS IN THEORY OF Taking always the positive sign , let be the value -uced for Then and Hence , the equations all satisfied by the system Similarly , they are all satisfied by the system , where Art .
54 .
show that each of these systelns stisfies the equations , it suffices to consider the typical determinant eqnation of the fourth order .
We have\mdash ; On the left-hand side put and the determinant becomes , 1 a In succession , multiply the first by first row by ; multiply the third row by divide the third column by multiply the fourth row by divide the column ; the determinant is then Similarly it is equation ) is cfied by the systen The equations , of higher order- , similarly be shown to be tisfied by both systems of values , and since the ) ) quadratic cquations lave each but two roots , it : that the only systems .
7 .
Art .
55 .
The interpretations drawn from theory have been so far of kinds .
In the examples taken from the " " on the Compositions of Nulnbel .
S\ldquo ; redundant of generating function and an exact or condensed form ; the redundant form and the form could be differeIJtly interpreted , and this led to ithmetical correspondence which duly noted in the memoir quoted .
retations , subsequently considered in paper , were single , and there arithmetical respondence ; densed forms did not admit of easy and useful interpretations , but only the redundant forms .
The redundant forms were not in the most ] form which , as we have seen , inyolves mined quantities , but each of these qnantities was given a special numerical value ; ) led to simple and usefnl esults but it will be obvious that ) ossibilit opretation does not stop here .
Art .
56 .
fifom the c.ondensed form to the redundant we met with ?
mined quantities As before ) we please , put these quantities equal to certain functions of the quantities ' .
, We are liberty to choose functions .
The functions must tisfy certain the coefficient of in the particular edundant product will not remain I this qnestion .
UNCT l IN lt Art .
57 .
Of order 2 we have the product and in the we a term involving if be not a function of and the terms ) , can only arise in a manner similal to this .
If , however , .
be such that ) is ( multiple of cTtd c of , we once get ddition to the coefficient of .
In t.hc case the coefficient becomes considering monomial values of only , inequality must be satisfied in to a function of may put , subject to the aboye condition , equal to onom i fractional function of and We may not put where is any function of We not , in fact , realize a portion of oefflcient of ' differs from Art .
58 .
Of , the particular product is we must realize th ) coefficient of in the llnel .
multiple of } , , here , of the three portio1ls , the first accounts wholly for , the second wholly for so on ; not in ) other manner .
Put , where are ) , and consider the simplified matrix , ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' in which unnecessary quantities are omitted .
Further , omitting a multiplier , indeI ) ent of , on the right-hand sides , the ving six inequalities must be satisfied , ' putting by the single inequality ( I ) As functions of ) , this ineqnality being satisfied , and may be ut equal to any functions that may be desired .
Like inequa ] ities may be obtained respect of the fourth and higher orders .
GENERATING FUNCTIONS IN .
The point to notice is it is late to put the termined ntities equal to any functions of , . .
fact , for the general order , becomes obyious on examination of aboye processes .
As appears , it is such integral functions usually ) resent themselyes in rithmetical ] ) ) Art . .
As an xample of the applications to ithmetic which ] bout the theory , cider the important condensed form Art .
and , first , consider the form of Order 3 .
matrix of the redundant form is easily found to be either or the similar trix written for .
Since we have , taking and putting a particular oduct this , the coefficient of ( which is equal to the coefficient of the sam me term in the condensed form ) is arithmetically interpretable as in A Art .
61 .
If , however , we put ( vide Art .
59 ) , we obtain a form which be written:\mdash ; P. .
1[ACMAHON ON RTAIN CLASS OF see that the coeflicient of , the numbev of of the symbols in which exactly contacts Her entirely new interpretation and we see that the true generating function for the Ttio of indic ted permutations is ' a result which does not lie by any means on the surface .
ondence should also be noted .
Art . .
For the , order we have the matrix 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 and we obtain another form by writing for Moreover have where ; GENERATING FUNCTIONS IN { THEORy NUII whence writing we obtain the matrix 1 1]1 and we interpret the coefficient of in the corrcsponding particular redundant product as in Art .
15 .
Again , writing , which , as far as is collcerned , shows to be , we have snppose , and the matrix 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 and the new particular redundant product ; . . .
P. A .
In we interpret the coefficient of the nature of ] condensed form we know ffici e is an tegral fnnction of .
We may prove that if a the expansion be . .
the number indicates the number of permutations of the quantities in \ldquo ; which possess .
contacts above ) oduct , as written , as a form ?
rows and columns involving elelnents .
Observe tlJat if the element mon to the and column is while the elelllent comn l to and column is and the product of these elements is Now , tion of the observe how it may be considered to tion .
1 .
et tion of the permutation be off in that in compartment the suffixe .
, order .
IN THE ] The portion is ) mutation of . . .
and we can obtain this portion by F$lecti]lOcb for multiplication 2 elements from the row appertaining to the exponent , The permutation is divided into five compartments as shown .
In the artment we have simply which is ) taken from the 2nd coluunl .
the second npartment we have which able 1 ) nlllltiplication of elements taken the 4th , , and 1st In row 4 , column , we take ; multiplication gives In the third we find row 8 , , we take , , .3 , , , 2 , , , 1 . .
Multiplication of these five elements yields IIAJOR F. ON A CLASS OF 111 we , and in each case is in we have obtained the product the are COl.rectly indicated by the quantities proccs , s is obviously a general one , the rule of element selection to dem onstrate ) ] may be set forth as follows:\mdash ; of the ) ltat i , eing in descending order of magnitude , we take elements in row , column thus obtain product , wherein ) contacts are correctly represented the quantities If alltity , we take the element in the row cohlm By ents are taken from row 1 , to form the product FUNCTIONS IN Art .
65 .
Hence it has been established that the coefficient of ) ' , . .
in the product , the ) of quantities in which possess exactly contacts : ; and since the redundant product can assume appearance derived from the matrix 1 1 . .
we find that the enumeration is identical with that of the permutations which are such that the quantity occurs times in places originally occupied by the quantity , when , and , as before , we take the coefficient of Hence , an arithmetical correspondence , and , also , the fact that the true function for the enumeration of these permutations is The above example is only a solitary one of a large number that might be furnished .
An advantageous method for procedure appears to be to take some ) able redundant product , and to then pass the condensed form ] to the general redundant product , involving ?
undetermined tities as well as quantities which admit of a choice of values .
The assignment of these quantities then to 1CO IN of ritlnn e correspondences which , remarked , is absolutely The theory , \ldquo ; an exhaustive Theoly of and gives in every ondcn s Generating Functions .
Its importance in the General Theory ' been touched upon .
In con clusion , will have achieved its object is successful in indicating the ower of the main theorem considered .

