On the Transient Magnetic State of which various Substances air susceptible .
By WILLIAM SNOW HARRIS , Esq. Communicated by DAVIES GILBERT , Esq. V.P.R.S. Read June 17 , 1830 .
1 .
THE influence of bodies , not permanently magnetic , on the compass needle , has led to some further researches in magnetism of singular importance .
The valuable papers of M. ARAGO and other eminent philosophers on this subject , communicated to the Royal Academy of Sciences , together with those of our no less talented countrymen which have appeared in the Royal Society 's Transactions , are calculated to excite a deep interest in physics .
In presenting to the Royal Society , after such valuable contributions to science , an account of some inquiries which I have myself been led to make in this branch of natural knowledge , I am encouraged by the belief , that whilst the deductions are for the most part derived from simple and direct experiments , the investigation has been carried on under new conditions ; and that although some facts already made known , have been again referred to , it will nevertheless be found to contain results of sufficient consequence to render it not unworthy of notice .
I have been particularly led to persevere in this investigation , at various times , from having observed ( Edinburgh Journal of Science , vol. v. p. 325 .
) that the reciprocal action of a rotating netallic disc , and a magnetic bar , is not considered by M. ARAGO as the result of any magnetism induced in the disc , but is attributed by him to some new force as yet undiscovered : and also , from the circumstance , that the magnetic susceptibility of non-metallic bodies , seems not to have been in many instances satisfactorily established:two inquiries of considerable iimportance .
2 .
When these researches were first commenced* , a curious effect was observed , evidently resulting from vibration , which it may be of consequence to mention .
A thin circular ring of copper of about half an inch wide , ten inches in diameter , and about -1oth of an inch thick , being delicately balanced on a fine point , by means of a transverse bar of wood carrying an agate centre , was placed on a firm screen of paper strained tight on a wood frame , and covered by a glass shade ; two powerful magnetic bars were caused to revolve in a horizontal plane , beneath the screen , with their poles immediately under the ring .
The ring , as in all the previous experiments of the same kind , soon acquired motion in the direction of the revolving bars , which could be arrested and reversed at pleasure , by changing the direction of the rotation .
It was however soon discovered , that a similar effect could be produced when the magnets were not present , merely by the action of the rotating apparatus .
This last consisted of a train of wheels resting on a firm pavement of thick stone ; the frame carrying the screen being supported over it on blocks of oak .
As it was of consequence to ascertain how far small vibratory impulses communicated to the screen , could cause the phenomena just observed , a continuous but gentle vibration was induced from one corner of it , by a slight tapping , which , after a few nlinutes , communicated motion to the ring in a constant direction ; on transferring the vibrations to the opposite side of the frame , the ring was again brought to rest , and caused to revolve in an opposite direction .
A similar result was obtained when a compass needle , and light needles of other substances were substituted for the ring of copper .
3 .
These results led me to place the copper circle in an exhausted receiver , on a strong plate of glass , and to suspend the whole on a convenient frame by means of lines passing from firm walls ; the revolving bars being placed as before , immediately under it .
In this instance , however , I failed at the same distance to move the ring , nor could a fine compass needle similarly placed be made to deviate more than a few degrees from its meridian , when exposed to the influence of a rapidly revolving disc .
This result is quite sufficient to show how minute a cause may render delicate investigations with a rotating body unsatisfactory ; more especially when connected with a heavy apparatus : even in the case of scPeens it does not seem quite clear that certain impulses may not be propagated through them , of sufficient magnitude to act on a very finely suspended needle or disc ; when the screens are thin and porous , the chance of this is greatly increased , and in cases where a screen only is einployed without a shade ; similar results would doubtless ensue from vortices 68 ~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~~~~~~~ I friT Mki ( n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ " ~~~~~~1 F3t It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ji , , ?
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.1ci : ?
; 6 ` -I~IIU : ii 16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i1 iz~~~ / n i J : -i -ii~~~~~~~~~ Y i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d c~~ 7 ( J / Lj A jt Q il w , C_._,.._.~_ ... . .
__ ... .
r1 rJ q , iT~~~~ VA _~~~~~~~ .
i~~ V/ , i iI a I !
_= _ ?
_ , _@t.J ^ Ij ... ... ... . .
_ ... _ .
ir Iii i/ i"ci ]--= , iI in the whole mass of the surrounding air .
I do not however mean to infer that such sources of fallacy have not been fully calculated on , or guarded against in the many valuable papers already alluded to : I rather mention them as a reason for adopting a method of experimenting , differing from the preceding , and which might insure an unmixed result .
To this end the experiments were continued in an exhausted receiver , effectually screened from vortices , and liberated from the influence of a resisting medium ; and in case of employing a rotating body , with a rotation continued so smoothly and evenly , as not to cause any vibration capable of inducing motion .
4 .
The following is a description of the different mechanical arrangements resorted to .
A circular plate of close fine-grained slate , a b , fig. 1 , 2 , 3 , of about half an inch thick and a foot in diameter , being carefully ground true , in order to fit it for the purposes of an air-pump plate , was nicely finished by rubbing it over with a mixture of oil and wax.* This plate is supported on a firm stand and frame , as represented in fig. 1 , furnished with levelling screws c , d , e. A short brass cylinder e , f , fig. 2 &amp; 3 , is fixed under the plate by means of a hole in the centre , and two brass collars ground true to its surface , and between which the plate is compressed : so that with a little grease , and a strong nut at e , fig. 2 , 3 , the joint is rendered air-tight .
The cylinder of connects laterally with a short pipe and stopcock gh leading to a good air-pump ; a long barometer gauge m , fig. 1 , 2 &amp; 3 , being attached to the pipe to indicate the state of the exhaustion .
A straight rod of brass n e , having a milled head at n , passes through a compressed collar of fine cork atf , and is sufficiently free above in the cylinder to allow of the action of the pump ; this rod is occasionally employed when furnished with a transverse bar at e , having two stops s , s , fig. 2 &amp; 10 , to liberate a magnetic bar in an exhausted medium , when retained at any angle of deviation from its meridian , or to effect any other required operation , as in fig. 3 .
5 .
The revolving body A , fig. 4 &amp; 5 , consists of a circular disc of about five inches diameter , and 0.125 of an inch thick ; united to a deep ring of the same substance , or otherwise to a ring of lead .
This disc has smooth rounded edges , and is balanced on a fine central point A of hardened steel , in such way that the centre of gravity and centre of motion coincide as nearly as possible ; the whole is sustained on a small agate cup , set in a short cylindrical piece of brass , fig. 4 and screwed , when required , whinto the shoulder of the brass cylinder which passes through the round hole of the pump-plate as represented in fig. 6 .
The sliding rod no above mentioned is in this case withdrawn for a short distance within the cylinder .
The disc is set in motion at the rate required by means of a line wound rapidly off it , from a train of wheels ; it is then covered with a screen , and with a receiver , as in fig. 6 , and the exhaustion made as perfect as possible in which case it will continue to revolve for a considerable time .
A simple or compound magnet is put into rapid rotation in a similar way , being previously mounted on a ring of lead ; besides straight bars , a compound magnet was employed for this purpose , having its extremities turned up in a perpendicular direction for about an inch , as in c d , fig. 7 , and occasionally a circular disc of magnetised steel , fig. 5 .
The former has its point of support fixed in a transverse bar of brass a b , fig. 7 , which projects in a circular hole drilled through the centre of the bars.* 6 .
When it became necessary to measure with great precision the rapidity of rotation , the machine represented in fig. 3 &amp; 8 was employed .
It consists of a metallic disc M kept in motion by a delicate train of wheels and pinions p. The rapidity of the rotation being accurately measured by an index r , moving on a small circle divided into twenty parts .
The weight W , fig. 3 , which by its descent keeps up the rotation , falls in a tall narrow receiver r 7r , supported against the under surface of the pump-plate .
A circular hole is drilled at s ' through the plate for the silk cord to pass , from the pulley at y ; by means of this hole also , the receiver r r ' is exposed to the action of the pump .
The machine is wound up and set in motion by means of the brass rod n e , fig. 3 , already described ( 4 ) , without disturbing the state of the exhaustion ; the extremity of the rod being formed into a key .
The revolving disc is screened by glass or any other substance , over which is placed a graduated circle of fine milled board , sustained in a light circular ring of wood .
The screen and ring are moveable with friction in a hollow cylinder of glass ss s ' s " , fig. 3 , so as to be adjusted at any required altitude .
7 .
The receivers employed to enclose these various bodies are for the most part such as are represented in fig. 1 , 3 &amp; 6 ; they have an open neck at B ground to a flat surface which admits of the altitude being increased by the addition of a second narrow receiver B D : this last is also ground flat at the point of union ; thus , by the aid of a little grease , an air-tight joint is easily obtained in the usual way .
The upper receiver BD is either closed above , or open , with a ground flat rim in order to apply a brass plate D carrying a brass rod t in an air-tight collar .
The rod t is for the convenience of raising or depressing light discs or needles suspended in the receiver below : these receivers vary from eight to forty inches in altitude , and from one to three inches in diameter ; so that the filament of silk for suspension may , when required , be upwards of four feet in length .
8 .
The substances exposed to the influence of the revolving bodies are formed into light needles or bars , or otherwise into flat circular rings , fig. 9 , and are either suspended or nicely balanced on points .
For the purpose of retaining them at rest until the exhaustion is complete , and when the stop e , fig. 2 , already explained ( 4 ) cannot be used , there is an angular lever 1 , fig. 3 , which passes in an air-tight collar through the side of the receiver , carrying at its extremity a common reed s , which being tubular is easily fixed on it ; hence it can be extended at pleasure .
9 .
The following are the results of some experiments with the apparatus above described .
( a ) A circular disc of copper being put into rotation at the rate of 500 revolutions in a minute , was left unscreened under a receiver , and a fine reed suspended over it by a filament of silk ; the reed was retained at rest , until the exhaustion was completed to within 0.4 of an inch of a good barometer , when it was set free .
The reed rotated freely at any distance at which it could be placed from the revolving disc , and which at the greatest amounted to eight inches .
The motion of the reed diminished with the rapidity of the rotation of the disc and with the torsion of the silk ; but its motion could be again restored by admitting a small quantity of air into the receiver .
71 ( b ) In a tall receiver of about two feet high a reed similarly placed rotated at a distance of eighteen inches from the revolving disc , when the exhaustion was within six inches ; but it remained at rest at a foot distance , when the exhaustion was carried to within 0.4 of an inch .
( c ) The rotating disc being screened by a thin plate of glass or varnished paper fitted close upon a short hollow cylinder of glass or wood , the reed remained at rest , although placed within one fifth of an inch of the screen .
( d ) A cylindrical magnetic bar revolved rapidly in an exhausted medium , when within one fifth of an inch distance from the disc ; but only deviated from the meridian 40 or 50 degrees when the screen above mentioned was interposed .
The disc in this experiment revolved at the rate of 400 revolutions in the minute .
( e ) Needles of glass , wood , and metallic substances not permanently magnetic , remained at rest when the rotation exceeded 600 revolutions in a minute , whether suspended by filaments of silk , or otherwise placed on points and supported on the glass screen .
When the rotation exceeded 1000 revolutions in a minute , and the exhaustion was inconsiderable , they were sometimes slightly moved .
( f ) Rotating magnetic discs and bars induced motion in metallic discs freely suspended at one fifth of an inch distance , when their thickness was about four times as great as ordinary tinfoil , and when the riotation exceeded 500 revolutions in a minute ; the rotating body being screened by any intervening substance except iron , which last , as already observed by Mr. HERSCHEL and Mr. BABBAGE , completely intercepted the effect * .
But light discs of wood and paper , and discs of paper covered with silver or gold leaf , remained at rest when within JLths of an inch distance from the rotating body .
( g ) A disc of iron or tempered steel did not communicate motion to any substance not permanently magnetic ; nor could motion be induced by the action of such substances on each other , however near they could be placed with an intervening screen ; although the rapidity of the rotating body was caused to exceed 1000 revolutions in a minute .
( h ) A needle of soft iron was not influenced by a copper disc revolving at the rate of 600 times in a minute ; but rotated freely when surrounded by a helix transmitting an electro-magnetic current .
( i ) A disc of tempered steel not magnetic , after simple contact with a powerful magnet acquired sufficient force to induce motion in metallic rings .
( k ) A needle of tempered steel was not influenced by a rotating disc of soft iron at the distance of one fifth of an inch , and revolving at the rate of 600 times in a minute ; but the needle revolved rapidly after simple contact with a magnet .
( I ) Magnetic needles delicately mounted on an horizontal axis so as to admit of motion in a vertical plane , remained at rest when the axis was perpendicular to the radius of the revolving disc ; but the needles appeared to be carried in the direction of its motion when the axis was turned in the same plane .
10 .
The above facts seem to show very clearly , that the presence of permanent magnetism , and a susceptibility of magnetic induction are essential conditions in the phenomena of rotation hitherto observed : at least this deduction is fair for all distances between the bodies at which they can be well placed with an intervening screen : without a screen it seems extremely difficult ever to arrive at a satisfactory result ; since even in a very rare medium ( ExptS ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) ) vortices are produced by the action of a rapidly revolving body , although with perfectly rounded and smooth edges , capable of carrying round light substances ; and although separated from such substances by a considerable interval .
So far therefore as this method of examining the influence which bodies not permanently magnetic can exert on each other extends , it seems not susceptible of the requisite precision ; and is , therefore , in a great degree inadequate to detect any very minute and delicate force , which can be supposed to arise from such an influence .
11 .
The law according to which metallic or other discs in a state of rotation influence a permanent magnet seems to be directly as the rapidity of the rotation , and inversely as the squares of the distances between the attracting bodies : at least for such distances as can be conveniently resorted to with an intervening screen .
In order to investigate this , I resorted to the machine already described ( 6 ) and represented in fig. 3 &amp; 8 .
By a few previous trials such weights were found as might in a short time impart to the rotating disc the respective velocities of 178.5 , 357 and 714 revolutions in a minute ; which numbers are to each other as the numbers 1 , 2 , 4 : and by means of the index and graduated circle x , fig. 3 &amp; 8 , the deflections of a magnet could be taken when these velocities were attained .
This point was determined by means of a valuable chronometer of a peculiar description which my friend Lieut.-Col. H. SMITH , F.R.S. was so good as to lend me for the purpose ; it can be set going , and stopped again at pleasure , and is capable of registering an observation to the #-th part of a second .
As the graduated circle is divided into twenty parts , it is presumed that the rate of motion can in this way be ascertained with sufficient accuracy ; and thus any little acceleration caused by the descending weight is not of consequence .
12 .
A magnetic bar being suspended as in fig. 3 , was in the first place accurately adjusted at the point of contact to the plane of the body intended to be put in motion , and which consisted of a flat ring of copper of an inch wide , and about 0.05 of an inch thick .
The bar was then raised from the ring through a distance equal to five turns of a micrometer-screw at D , each turn of the screw being equal to the Ioth of an inch : the screen s was then interposed , and the whole covered by a receiver , and exhausted .
( n ) The machine being set in mtotion , the deviation of the bar amounted to 24 ?
when the velocity was 357 revolutions in a minute : on increasing the velocity to 714 revolutions in a minute , or double the former , it amounted to 56 ? .
The exhaustion in these experiments was carried to within 0.5 of an inch .
Taking the sines of the angles of deviation as a measure of the force urging the bar , we have the respective numbers.829038 and.406737 , which are very nearly in the same ratio as the respective velocities ; that is to say as 2 : 1 .
( o ) The bar being adjusted to within a distance of the ring equal to four turns of the screw , the deviation of the needle amounted to 380 when the velocity was 357 revolutions in a minute : on raising the bar by four additional turns of the screw , the deviation decreased to 9 ? .
Taking the sines of these angles as before , we have for the corresponding distances , the numbers.615661 74 and.156434 , which may be considered as very nearly in the inverse ratio of the squares of the respective distances .
In the following Table are given the deviations of the bar , corresponding to other distances and velocities .
TABLE I. ( A ) ( B ) ( C)_ Velocity of rotation , 178.5 Velocity of rotation , 357 .
Velocity of rotation , 714 .
Distance Distance ofsSneco stn Angle of Sine of ADistance Angle of Sine of in turns of D eviatio ns Deviation .
Deviation .
Min turs of Deviation .
Micr'-Screw .
Micr-Screw .
Micr-Screw. .
O ' O-- .
4 18.309017 4 38.615661 5 12.207912 5 24.406737 5 56.829038 6 16.275637 8 4.5.078459 8 9.156434 10 3.052336 10 6.104528 10 12.207912 It appears by the above Table , that the influence of the ring is directly as the rapidity of the motion , and inversely as the squares of the distances : we observe a little discrepancy in some of the numbers , but the general agreement is very close and remarkable .
A complete agreement cannot be expected ; for supposing even the most perfect manipulation , there will always arise in experiments of this kind many causes which disturb a numerical identity* .
13 .
Being desirous to extend these inquiries concerning the transient magnetic state , of which various substances appear to be susceptible , I subsequently laid aside the rotating discs , as a means of detecting these minute forces for the no less refined , and perhaps still less exceptionable method of a vibrating bar ; since what is termed the magnetism of rotation , seems in fact to be nothing more than the presence of a temporary magnetic development induced in successive points of a body by the action of a permanent magnet , the body being supposed in motion .
If the body therefore be at rest , this development will restrain the motion of a bar vibrating near it , and so diminish the amplitude of its oscillations ; and thus by determining the number of vibrations performed in a given arc , we may from thence arrive at a comparative value of the force in action .
To this effect the bar already mentioned ( 12 ) was suspended , and exposed to the influence of different substances , in the following manner .
Two perpendicular rods of glass r r , ' r ' , fig. 1 , furnished with footand cappieces are fixed in a solid block of mahogany r r , fig. 1 ; these rods by the intervention of a short wood cylinder l , and two horizontal rods , also of glass , rl , r'l , sustain a glass tube tt ' which slides with friction through the cylinder .
This tube is furnished with a cap-piece at t , through which passes a brass rod : the magnetic bar is suspended from this rod by a filament of silk , and is finally raised or depressed to the required altitude by a micrometer-screw at t : the altitude of the glass tube I being previously fixed .
The centre of the mahogany block is hollowed into a cylindrical cavity as represented in fig. 10 , and is firmly fixed upon the pump-plate by means of the screw and shoulder projecting through the brass collars ( 4 ) .
Its outer part is also depressed , leaving a cylindrical projection of about one fourth of an inch deep , 4.7 inches diameter , and 1.25 inch wide .
The graduated circle of stout card-board D already mentioned ( 6 ) slides with friction between the glass rods , so as to be easily adjusted at any given point .
The bar is retained at the given angle from its meridian , and again set free , when the exhaustion is sufficiently complete , by means of the lever and double stop before explained ( 4 ) , and which moves in the interior circular cavity of the block , fig. 10 .
This method of arresting the bar seems to be of some consequence to the experiment ; for if one pole only be checked , the force operating on the other , will for an obvious reason , give the bar a swinging motion , which is very undesirable , but which is here effectually prevented ; so that when set free it will appear to oscillate as if mounted on a fixed centre .
The checks by which the bar is thus arrested , are so contrived as to be independent of each other , 76 and are moveable with friction in a small tube of brass as at ss , figs. 2 and 10 , and may consequently be adjusted with great nicety .
The tube in which the checks are fixed is sustained in a horizontal direction in the extremity of the rod , which passes into the receiver through the centre of the pump-plate .
14 .
The substances to be submitted to experiment , are formed into rings as at R , fig. 11 ; in these the bar is caused to oscillate .
Each ring is about one inch in height , of any convenient thickness , and 4.75 inches interior diameter , so as to admit of its being accurately adjusted on the cylindrical shoulder of the circular base , fig. 10 .
15 .
In applying the method of an oscillating bar to the investigation of minute and transient magnetic forces , it seems essential to keep in view the following interesting fact ; viz. the influence of bodies , not susceptible of permanent polarity , on the state of oscillation is such , that the amplitude of the vibrations only is diminished , not their duration : that is to say , whether a bar vibrate in free space , or otherwise near plates , or in rings of these substances , still the number of oscillations in a given time , considered as a unit of time , does not vary , although the bar is sooner brought to restlwhen under the influence of such bodies , than when freed from them , whatever substance be employed , and at whatever distance the influence be exerted .
This fact seems materially to distinguish the peculiar influence of non-magnetic substances , from a case of permanent polarity ; by which last , an oscillating bar is not only brought to rest in less time , but the rate of vibration is very sensibly increased .
We cannot therefore , as in the latter instance , resort to the common law of pendulums , and take the square of the number of oscillations performed in a given time as a measure of the force in action , since the time of each oscillation does not sensibly vary ; we must therefore adopt some other method .
16 .
In order to arrive at a comparative value of the influence of any substance on a vibrating bar , I have been led to employ the following formula , ( l)r ; which seems to apply in a very remarkable manner to the results of experiment ; in which a represents the number of oscillations in a given arc in free space , b the number in the same arc , when exposed to the influence of a substance not permanently magnetic , and r the retarding force 77 by which the bar tends to rest in free space ; the oscillations being supposed to take place in an exhausted receiver .
Thus , if in free space 420 oscillations are performed before the arc of vibration is reduced from 450 to 100 , and the number of vibrations in the same arc , are 30 and 20 respectively , when the bar vibrates under the influence of two given substances taken in succession , and whose magnetic energies we propose to compare with each other ; hn h nr then the energy of the one may be expressed by 1 r , and that of the other by 4 20l r ; that is to say , their energies will be to each 20 other as 13:20 .
17 .
Previously to examining the susceptibility of substances generally to magnetic influence , the number of vibrations was first determined between 450 and 10 ?
in air , under a glass-shade ; then the number in the same arc also in air , when the bar was surrounded by a ring of wood of one fifth of an inch thick , and an inch deep ; each pole being I3ths of an inch distant from the interior of the ring : this being carefully ascertained , the same was repeated in an exhausted receiver ; the results are as follow : TABLE II .
Number of Vibrations from 45 ?
to 10 ? .
It may be seen in this experiment that the ring of wood exerted a very sensible retarding power on the vibrations of the bar , which is more apparent when the impediment to motion arising from a resisting medium is removed .
I submitted to experiment in this way , in a pneumatic vacuum , a few rings of *A magnetic bar whilst vibrating under the influence of any substance , must be considered to be operated on by two retarding forces ; one by which it would be eventually brought to rest , supposing the given substance away ; and another resulting from induction .
The number of vibrations in a given arc , or their differences , therefore do not seem to be a measure of the latter force , since some portion of the former will always enter into the result of the experiment .
In air .
In exhausted receiver .
Vibrations Vibrations in Vibrations Vibrations in in space .
ring of wood .
in space .
ring of wood .
232 210 420 308 i ... .
ii i1111 ... _ ... ... - .
I_ .
; .
78 different substances similar to the above , and found their influence on the vibrations very decided , although the differences in their respective magnetic energies was not very apparent .
The substances tried , with the respective number of vibrations , and their comparative energies as deduced fionm the formula , are given in the ensuing Table .
TABLE III .
Vibrations from 450 Comparative energies Substances .
to 10 as deduced from -~-^~~~~~ *formula .
Distilled water , temp. 330.27 20 ?
FAHR ... ... ... . .
Honduras mahogany ... .
308 0.36 Statuary marble ... ... . .
306 0.37 Freestone ... ... ... ... 308 0.36 Annealed glass , -l-inch thick ... ... .
31 18 .
By employing the above substances in larger masses , the effect on the bar seemed to be greatly increased : although the difference in the comparative energies of wood and marble , the only two substances which I had an opportunity of trying , is still not very great .
In the following Table are given the results of some experiments with a ring of statuary marble of 1.75 inch thick , and with a similar ring of Honduras mahogany , as compared with the influence of two rings of the same substances of only one fifth of an inch in thickness .
TABLE IV .
Substances .
Wood .
Marble .
Thickness of ring in inches ... .
0.2 1.75 0.2 1.75 Vibrations from 45 ?
to 10 ?
... .
308 280 306 2 65 Ratio of magnetic influence as 36 35 0 .
0.36 0.50 0.35 0.59 deduced from formula ... , 19 .
The influence of the substances being o.bserved to depend in .
gre .
19 .
The influence of the substances being observed to depend in great 79 measure on the mass , it seemed of consequence to ascertain how far the energy might vary with the density .
Several kinds of wood therefore of the above dimensions were subjected to experiment , whose specific gravities greatly varied ; but there did not appear , after many trials , any perceptible difference on 280 vibrations .
The woods tried were , Lignum Vitre , Yellow Pine , African Oak , Honduras Mahogany , and Teak .
All these reduced the vibrations of the bar from 420 , the number performed in free space , to 280 , the number performed when surrounded by the wood ; the vibrations being taken from 45 ?
to 10 ?
, in an exhausted receiver .
20 .
I endeavoured to detect the magnetic energy of fluid bodies by vibrating the bar in an exhausted receiver , with its poles within the ho-th of an inch of the glass ; the receiver being surrounded at that part opposite the pole of the magnet by the particular fluid , the subject of experiment .
In this case the fluid was retained in its situation by means of an external check of glass ground to a glass-plate ; on which the whole was sustained ; the plate being supported on a ring of glass placed over and in connection with the pump-plate below ; and the surfaces of contact ground , so as to fit air-tight .
I failed however in arriving at any decided result ; the amount of the retardation with sulphuric acid , for example , not appearing greater than was fairly attributable to the influence of the glass alone : even a saturated solution of sulphate of iron did not seem to exert in this way any sensible influence .
By means of a very great number of vibrations , and a powerful bar , however , the energy of fluids , if such exist , might possibly become appreciable .
21 .
The inductive influence on metallic bodies being the most decisive , they are perhaps better adapted to the purposes of experiments relating to the influence of mass and density , or to the law according to which the inductive effect increases , as the distance from the magnet decreases , than any other kind of substance .
Before examining , therefore , the comparative energies of various metals , I endeavoured to arrive at some further conclusions in this interesting part of the inquiry .
In order to examine the comparative energies when the quantity of matter was varied , twelve concentric rings of copper were employed similar to the former ring of wood ( 17 ) , except in thickness , which amounted to.025 of an inch : these rings were turned up with sufficient accuracy , and fitted very fair and close one within the other .
The number of vibrations was first determined in the interior ring alone , after which a second was added , and the number of vibrations again determined , and so on to eight rings ; when the increased effect became almost inappreciable .
TABLE V. INumber ofl 11345678 rings ... .
J Vibrations ... .
44 30 24 21 19+ 17 16 ?
+ 16 Ratio of force .
8.54 13 16.5 19 21+ 23 24+ 25 The increments in the effect on the bar appear by the above Table continually to decrease , so that after a certain number of laminae they seem to be no longer appreciable ; hence the numbers expressing the comparative energies would become at last equal , and such was found to be the case , the number of vibrations with twelve rings being no greater than with ten* .
22 .
The quantity of matter in the foregoing experiment being actually divided into concentric rings , I endeavoured to ascertain how far the above results depended on the sum of the whole , or of any number of them ; with this view the number of vibrations was determined for each ring , when opposed to the bar in the same relative situation which it occupied in the mass , so as to obtain the separate effect due to any particular ring .
These separated results were as follow .
No. of the ring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th Vibrations ... .
44 76 94 124 148 166 186 210 Ratio of force .
8.54 4.52 3.45 2.38 1.83 1.53 1.25 1.0 In comparing the above numbers with those in the preceding Table , the energy of any number of rings , taken together , appears to be very nearly the sum of the same rings , taken separately , and is a curious deduction by the formula above given ( 16 ) .
Thus the energy of three rings combined is by the preceding Table 16.5 , which is about the aggregate amount of the first , second , and third , as deduced above , and so on .
It is true that some of the other numbers are not in such complete accordance as in this instance , but the approximation is nevertheless very remarkable .
The intervening rings do not therefore intercept any very sensible portion of the inductive influence of the bar ; a result quite consistent with what is observed in the case of rotating discs , when covered with non-ferruginous screens ; and with this further condition , that whilst the inductive energy thus penetrates the intervening metal , it disturbs at the same time its magnetic distribution .
23 .
The foregoing deductions were verified by combining a few rings not immediately successive , so as to leave an interval between them .
The results are as follow .
TABLE VII .
Rings combined .
lst+ 4th 4th+ 8th lst+ 4th+th Vibrations ... . .
-37 100 +33 Force ... ... .
11.3 3.2 -11.7:. .
' 1.3 3~ 1 ... ... In these , as in the foregoing instances , it may be perceived , on comparing the actual observation , as given in this Table , with the values of the respective rings in the preceding one , that the numerical approximations are very close .
The energy of any ring therefore may be estimated by subtracting from the aggregate effect , the sum of the others with which it is combined .
24 .
It would not be difficult , from the above investigation , to arrive at some 82 general conclusions as to the precise ratio in which the energy increases with the separate quantities of matter , and decreases with the distance ; since both are involved in the experimental results .
In the following Table is given the observed effect of each separate ring , as compared with the corresponding effect deduced by calculation from the first experiment , on the supposition that the energy is directly as the quantity of matter , and inversely as the squares of the respective distances ; and it will be seen that the differences are not greater than may , from the somewhat complicated nature of the experiment , be expected .
TABLE VIII .
Rings ... ... ..'No .
1 .
No. 2 .
No. 3 .
No. 4 .
No. 5 .
No. 6 .
No. 7 .
No. 8 .
Energy by cal4.5 3.05 2.19 1.65 1.28 1.04 0.84 culation ... .
Observed energy 8.54 4.52 3.45 2.38 1.83 1.25 1.25 1.0 25 .
There appears reason therefore to conclude , as a general principle , that the transient magnetic energy of any substance , not supposed to contain iron , varies in a direct ratio of the quantity of matter within the sphere of the action , and in an inverse ratio of the squares of the distances from the magnet ; the matter being supposed to be condensed into a stratum not having sensible thickness , and taken at some mean point of distance within the sulface , where the sum of the forces may be imagined to produce the same effect as if exerted from every part of the mass ; and the respective distances estimated between this mean distance and the opposed surface of the magnet* .
26 .
It is a consequence almost necessarily resulting from the foregoing investigation , that , supposing all other circumstances alike , the energy of the same substance is directly as its density , although such did not actually appear in the foregoing experiments with various species of wood ( 25 ) ; but this may be readily supposed to arise from the circumstance , that the energy of wood is altogether too feeble to admit of such differences becoming appreciable by the means employed .
In metallic bodies , however , the fact appears to be very decided ; thus , in three specimens of copper , whose dimensions were very nearly the same , but whose specific gravities varied , the resulting energies were observed to be the greatest in those which had the greatest specific gravity ; as for example , when the specific gravities were to each other as 8.30 to 8.40 , the resulting number of vibrations amounted in the one instance to twelve , in the other to fifteen .
To obtain more than rough approximations to the precise law by this method , would be extremely difficult , since the metals , as it is evident , should be procured in a state of great purity , and the dimensions , previously to taking the specific gravities , adjusted with an accuracy which only the most refined workmanship can effect ; there is however little doubt , if the experiment could be accurately tried , that the energy of the same metallic substance would , as a general result , be in the direct ratio of its density .
27 .
It is of importance therefore , in estimating the comparative magnetic influence of metals , to take into account their density ; without which the inquiry might prove unsatisfactory .
The energies of various metallic bodies , and some few alloys , were estimated by determining the number of vibrations of the bar between 45 ?
and 10 ?
in a ring of each ; the metal being within 0.1 of an inch of its poles .
The more common metals were cast in a mould , and all the rings adjusted to the same dimensions .
28 .
I endeavoured to estimate the energy of mercury at -50 ?
of FAHRENHEIT , by freezing it into a solid ring , of the same dimrensions as the preceding , in a mould of wood , accurately adjusted for the purpose ; but could only obtain satisfactorily , as a general result , the place it appeared to hold in the scale of magnetic energy .
The ring was fully and completely solidified , and the mould so constructed as to admit of its interior part being removed , so that the needle could oscillate , whilst the metal remained externally enveloped in the freezing mixture .
The thermometer , previously to removing the interior of the mould and adjacent salts , stood at -56 ? .
I had not an opportunity of repeating this interesting experiment , which is sufficiently practicable , and seems to promise the development of some new phenomena in magnetism .
The energy of mercury in its fluid state , in a vacuum , was examined by enclosing it between two glass circular checks , so as to obtain a ring of nearly the same dimensions as the others , subsequently separating the influence due to the glass alone .
29 .
The place which the following metals appear to occupy in the scale of magnetic energy , and their comparative influence , as resulting from this investigation , is given in the succeeding Tables .
TABLE IX .
TABLE X. Alloys .
Cast Copper and Zinc Cast Copper and BisCast Zinc and Bismuth A in equal parts .
muth in equal parts .
: in equal parts .
Comparative .
12 23 1.4 energy. .
' 30 .
Although considerable pains have been taken to make the foregoing Table as perfect as possible , yet it cannot be considered as anything more than a useful approximation ; there are many conditions peculiar to this inquiry to be yet investigated , which seem for the present to preclude the possibility of obtaining results quite conclusive .
The metals employed were in as great a state of purity as they could be obtained in the ordinary way of commerce ; some of them , more especially the copper , gold , and silver , may be considered as very nearly without alloy .
31 .
If the preceding investigations are of any importance , they seem to be in great measure conclusive , as to the cause of the influence of a rapidly * The comparative influence of solid mercury must be taken as a rough approximation ; the bar in this ring in air , as nearly as could be ascertained , performed about 150 vibrations between 45 ?
and 100 ; whilst , in an analogous ring of rolled copper it performed about fourteen vibrations ; in free space in air , it performed 232 .
M tals Rolled Rolled Cast Rolled Cast Cast Cast Solid* Cast Fluid Cast Metals .
Silver .
Copper .
Copper .
Gold .
Zinc .
Tin .
Lead .
Mercury .
Antimony .
Mercury .
Bismuth .
tivemagne- &gt; 39 29 20 16 10 6.9 3.7 2.0 1.3 1.0 0.45 tic energy .
J. .
85 rotating metallic disc on a freely suspended magnet ; whilst at the same time they are in accordance with the opinion of M. ARAGO , that almost every known substance can exert an influence on the compass-needle .
Every species of matter therefore may be considered to be more or less susceptible of a state of transient magnetic energy , arising from induction .
32 .
The hypothesis advanced by Mr. HERsCHEL and Mr. BABBAGE in explanation of some of these phenomena is extremely simple , and to a great extent very satisfactory ; inasmuch as it agrees with all the observed operations of magnetic induction , and , as stated by them , supersedes the necessity of advancing any new hypothesis in magnetism ; it is nevertheless considered by M. ARAGO as insufficientx .
This celebrated philosopher appears to deny , that the limit of the motion produced by any force , which can be supposed to reside in the induced poles , even if their existence be admlitted , can exceed a minute of a degree : whereas , in order to explain the rotation , it should exceed 90 ? .
It may be observed however , that a ring of metal , copper for example , immediately surrounding the poles of the needle , can , as first stated by M. ARAGO , diminish the amplitude of its oscillations , and , as seen in the foregoing experiments , so fetter its motion , as to reduce the vibrations in a given space from 420 to 14 .
We must therefore necessarily conclude the force induced in each consecutive point of the ring to be very considerable .
With non-metallic bodies , the force is certainly very much less ; but these do not fetter the motion of the needle to anything like so great an extent , nor will these substances rotate , as far as I can find , by the influence of a magnet revolving in an exhausted receiver without sensible vibration , notwithstanding the rapidity of the rotation exceeds 700 revolutions in a minute .
33 .
After considering with much attention the hypothesis just alluded to , I am led to offer a few additional observations , with a view of extending the principle it involves , and which may possibly be useful in further elucidation of the perceived effects ; whilst , at the same time , they will not be found in any way inconsistent with the known laws of magnetic action .
The facility with which a magnetic development is induced in bodies , may be designated by the term " susceptibility " ; the time during which this -effect of induction remains in them " retentive power " .
These terms have been * Edin .
Philos. Journal , vol. v. p. 326 .
86 already employed by Mr. BABBAGE and Mr. HERSCHEL , and they are sufficiently explanatory .
In the case of magnetic energy induced in a body by any of the ordinary methods , it may be observed as a general fact , that the energy is acquired in somewhat less time than that in which it is again lost .
This is particularly the case in soft iron rendered magnetic , by an electro-magnetic spiral ; a simple contact between a magnet and a mass of soft iron will frequently convey to it an attractive force , which it retains for a comparatively long space of time .
In regard to the susceptibility of different substances , it is found to vary considerably ; and depends on some peculiar property not yet explained ; it seems to be in some inverse ratio of their retentive power .
Thus it is not without difficulty that hardened steel is made permanently magnetic , whilst its retentive power is considerable : soft iron , on the contrary , is observed to be comparatively feeble in its retentive power , whilst its susceptibility of magnetic change is great .
It may be hence inferred , that in non-ferruginous masses , the mere susceptibility of magnetic change , is in fact also considerable , but then their retentive power is so feeble , that the subsequent attraction does not ensue to any great extent .
This probably arises from some peculiar state of the particles of these substances , which allows what may be termed the new magnetic distribution , to tend more rapidly to the previous state of neutrality , immediately the tension passes a certain point .
In every observed instance , however , more time seems necessary to restore perfectly , the original state of the body , than was required to disturb it , the former being the result of a progressive operation , whilst the latter is effected by a sudden and concentrated force .
34 .
The attraction , as usually observed , between a magnet and a mass of iron , is invariably preceded by this new magnetic distribution in the iron ; and unless such new distribution can occur , it seems , as in the analogous operation of electrical action , that no attractive effect can ensue ; indeed this is made evident by the repulsive efforts of two similar magnetic poles ; the repulsion may be conceived to be really the immediate consequence of an inductive effort , since an attempt is made to reverse the magnetic distribution in the opposed bars , which action the already existing polarities resist : when , however , as in the case of opposing either pole of a very powerful 87 magnet to the similar pole of a very weak one , this new distribution can be effected , an attractive force immediately follows .
35 .
There are some circumstances connected with this curious result of magnetic action , which seem to apply immediately to the question under consideration , but which have not been generally observed .
If two similar magnetic poles of very unequal force be opposed to each other , the greatest repulsion , taking into account the difference in distance , will be a little within the limit of their action : that is to say , the increments in the repulsive energy are comparatively less , as the magnets approach each other : evidently resulting from the change which begins to take place in the magnetism of the bars .
Now if one of the bars be extremely powerful in regard to the other , the new distribution in the weaker bar is effected even before the point of contact .
The precise point at which the existing polarity of the weaker bar becomes changed varies with the force of the stronger magnet .
This point may be found by experiment in the following way .
Let a small cylindrical magnet be suspended by a silk line from a delicate wheel , whose axis rests on friction rollers ; and let it be counterpoised by a small weight at the extremity of a short cylindrical piece of wood partly immersed in a jar of water .
If one pole of a powerful bar be now carefully approximated towards the like pole of the suspended magnet , by fixing the former in a brass frame carrying a micrometer-screw , the latter will be observed to recede from the bar , until the opposed poles are within a certain distance of each other ; when the repulsion will cease , and a weak attractive effect ensue .
The cylinder of wood as it becomes gradually immersed * , continually furnishes an equivalent to the repulsion , in the quantity of water displaced .
We do not generally perceive the attractive effect resulting from this inductive action in non-ferruginous masses ; for , as already observed , their feeble retentive power admits of the magnetic neutrality being more rapidly restored , when the tension passes a certain point .
So that in fact , the opposite magnletic state never becomes sufficiently intense to evince an attractive force , cognizable by the ordinary means .
When , therefore , a disc of any substance is put into a state of rotation under a suspended magnetic bar , opposite poles are induced in that part of the disc immediately under the bar ; these induced poles may be supposed to pass on , and being retained for a short portion of time , will , if the motion be more rapid than the time during which the impression remains , be transferred toward the opposite poles of the magnet , and exert upon them a repulsive action up to that point of distance ( 35 ) at which the poles of the magnet again reverse the transient poles impressed on the disc , and substitute opposite poles , to be again reversed as before .
37 .
Thus if NsSn ( fig. 12 ) be a metallic disc revolving in the direction NsSn under a magnetic bar NS free to move upon a central point C , and of which N is the north pole , and S the south , the effect of this rotation will be , to impress upon the semicircle Ns Sa south polarity , and upon the semicircle Sn Na north polarity , in consequence of the points sss and nnn having passed under the poles N and S. Now if the time required to restore the original magnetic distribution of the plate , be less than tha at necessary to disturb it , these impressed polarities remain for a small portion of time , and hence there will always be an attractive force in advance of the poles of the bar , and a repulsive force in arrear of them ; consequently the bar becomes driven , as well as dragged in the direction of the revolving disc by the resolved portion of the oblique actions acting for the most part near the extremities .
And there is little doubt , that any substance in the least degree susceptible of a transient magnetic state , might cause a magnet to rotate ; provided that the rapidity of the motion be greater than the time necessary for the restoration of the original magnetic distribution of the body acted on ; supposing such rapidity of rotation possible .
38 .
A rotating disc , therefore , circumstanced as above ( 37 ) , may be considered as a circular magnet such as that already mentioned ( 5 ) , one of the semicircles having a north polarity , and the opposite semicircle a south polarity ; and which polarities eventually neutralise each other about one of the diameters ; the only difference being , that the magnetism of the revolving disc is transient , and constantly changing its position ; so that the neutral points are always near the poles of the suspended bar .
The bar therefore by a well &amp; C. known law of magnetic attraction , will be constantly endeavouring to place itself at right angles to the magnetic equator of the disc , whilst the position of the latter varies in its turn with the position of the bar : it is in fact owing to this circumstance that the bar at length revolves with the disc , as may be in great measure seen by substituting for the disc a similar disc of steel made permanently magnetic ; in which case the suspended bar will not revolve , it will be merely put into a state of disturbed vibration .

