XXII .
" On the Brain of a Bushwoman ; and on the Brains of two Idiots of European Descent .
" By JOHN MARSHALL , F.R.S. , Surgeon to University College Hospital .
Received June 18 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) The author having described the mode of preparation and dissection of the three brains , divides his paper into two parts , one relating to the Bushwoman and her brain , and the other to the idiots and their brains .
1 .
The Bushwoman 's brain .
The Bushwoman was aged , and about 5 feet high-unusual for her race .
The form of the cranium is a long narrow ovoid-less dolichocephalic , however , than the Negro skull ; the face is high-cheeked , and the nose very small and flattened .
The frontal sinuses are absent , and the walls of the cranium are thick-so thick that its internal capacity is less than would be expected from its outward form and size , being equal to 35 oz. av .
of water , or 60*64 cubic inches , which , for the height of the Bushwoman 's body , is decidedly , but not very small .
The actual weight of the preserved encephalon proved to be 21'77 oz. av .
, which would probably represent , as the author shows , 31*5 oz. for the weight of the recent brain enclosed in its membranes .
Allowance being made for the height of the body , this is less by 8'5 oz. than the average weight of the brains of European females of the same age , as estimated from the Tables of Dr. Boyd , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1861 .
The cerebrum proper probably weighed , in its recent state , 27'25 oz. , the cerebellum 3*45 oz. , and the pons with the medulla oblongata *8 oz. The ratio of the cerebrum to the cerebellum was as usual , 7*7 to 1 ; that of the cerebrum to the body was probably as 1 to 52 , and that of the cerebellum to the body as 1 to 418 , instead of the usual ratios of 1 to 41 , and 1 to 328 .
An examination of the general form of the cerebrum shows that it is small , but long-defective in width , and especially in height .
Its outlines and surfaces are angular and flat instead of rounded and 708 filll .
The frontal region is very narrow , shallow , much excavated below , and compressed laterally near the entrance of the Sylvian fissure .
The parietal region is low , but prominent laterally ; the occipital region is long , but defective in height ; and the temporal region is long , but narrow .
The cerebrum overlaps the cerebellum by '5 inch , which is as great an absolute overlap as is usual in European brains , but less relatively to the length of the brain , which is very long in the Bushwoman .
The fissures , lobes , and convolutions are then described at length , and compared with those of the ordinary European brain , with those of the Hottentot Venus 's brain figured by Gratiolet , and with those of the young Chimpanzee .
It is impossible to give in an abstract even an outline of the facts recorded in this part of the paper .
The general result of the inquiry is to show that the fissures are rather more complex than in the brain of the Hottentot Venus , but much less so than in the European .
They are rather more complex on the left than on the right side of the brain .
They are widely separated from those of the Ape 's brain .
The author concludes-1 .
That all the convolutions proper to man are present , but , as compared with the European brain , are much more simple , and less marked with secondary sulci .
The greatest deficiency is in the occipital and orbital convolutions .
2 .
That the convolutions , taken generally , are rather more complex than those represented in Gratiolet 's figure of the Hottentot Venus 's brain , which may be partly due to the obliteration of details in the latter during its long period of preservation .
3 &amp; 4 .
That the resemblance between the Bushwoman 's brain and the Hottentot Venus 's brain is sufficient to justify the conclusion that the latter was not an idiot , or a defectively developed individual ; but both brains , as compared with the European , have an infantile simplicity , characteristic partly of sex , but chiefly of race .
5 .
That the convolutions being more simple , can be more easily traced and compared on the two sides than usual , but still show abundant evidences of the asymmetry characteristic of man .
6 .
That there is a greater difference between the Bushwoman 's cerebrum and the highest Ape 's cerebrum than between it and the European cerebrum ; but a less specific difference between it and the European than between the Chimpanzee and the Orang ; and , of course , much less than between the highest and lowest Quadrumanous brains .
There is , however , less difference between the Bushwoman and the highest Ape than between the latter and the lowest Quadrumanous animal , 7 .
The general results , the author thinks , justify the expectation that characteristic differences of degree of cerebral development may hereafter be found in the several leading races of mankind .
The author then proceeds to describe the colour and relative proportions of the grey and white substance , the commissures , ventricles , and ganglionic masses .
The commissural fibres of the corpus callosum are very deficient in the Bushwoman ; and the other commissures are also small .
The body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle are also small ; but the posterior cornu and its contained parts are very large .
In the cerebellum , the median parts appear to be somewhat less developed than the hemispheres .
Its transverse commissural fibres are more largely developed than the same system of fibres in the European brain ; the Chimpanzee standing , in this respect , still lower .
The laminae of the cerebellum are even more numerous than in the European specimen with which the Bushwoman 's brain was compared .
The cerebellum seems to be more perfectly developed than the cerebrum .
2 .
The Idiots ' brains .
Some account is first given of the age , height , and bodily and mental condition of these idiots , one of whom was a wloman , aged forty-two years , and the other a boy of twelve .
The former was able to walk , though badly , to nurse a doll , and to say a few words ; whilst the latter could not walk , nor handle anything , nor articulate a single word .
In the idiot woman , the weight of the recent encephalon was 10 oz. 5 grs. , of which the cerebrum weighed 7'6 oz. , the cerebellum 1'95 oz. , and the pons with the medulla oblongata '42 oz. In the idiot boy , the recent encephalon weighed 8'5 oz. , the cerebrum 5'85 oz. , the cerebellum 2'25 oz. , and the pons with the medulla oblongata '4 oz. These are the two smallest idiots ' brains the weights of which have been recorded .
Calculations are then entered upon by the author to show the probable ratios , in the two cases , of the weight of the encephalon , the cerebrum , and the cerebellum to that of the body , and of the re .
lative weight of the cerebrum to the cerebellum .
The result of this inquiry is to prove that the entire encephalon was , in each case , about one-fourth of its normal proportional weight .
The cerebrum was much more defective than the cerebellum .
The idiot boy had relatively more cerebellum , and the idiot woman more cerebrum .
On studying the general form , dimensions , and relative position of the parts of the encephalon , it appears that the entire brain in the idiot woman resembled very closely , at first sight , both in its general mass and in the form of its anterior part , the brain of the Chimpanzee ; but a closer comparison shows great differences .
The cerebellum especially is of very great size , forming about one-fourth of the entire mass , and , instead of being covered by the cerebrum , has about '35 inch of it exposed posteriorly .
A detailed description is then given of the fissures , lobes , and convolutions , which are compared with those of the healthy brain and with those of the Chimpanzee .
Only the most general conclusions arrived at can here be given .
Of the lobes , the temporal are remarkably large ; the parietal seem to be next highly developed ; whilst the occipital and frontal are the smallest .
According to the author1 .
The idiots ' cerebra are not merely diminutive organs , having all the proper parts on a smaller scale , but these parts are fewer in number , less complex , and different in relative proportion and position .
2 .
Nevertheless all the primary and connecting convolutions proper to the human cerebrum are represented in the idiots , but are very remarkably simplified .
3 .
The degree to which the convolutions of those parts are developed follows the order observed in the lobes themselves .
4 .
The convolutions of the idiot woman are more developed than those of the idiot boy , except those of the parietal region .
5 .
The peculiarities in the idiots ' cerebra are due to arrest of development occurring at some period of foetal existence .
6 .
Judging from external appearances generally , it might be supposed that this period was about the latter half of the seventh month , and somewhat earlier in the boy than in the woman .
But a closer examination shows that the malformation is not due to a simple arrest occurring so late in foetal life , but commences much earlier in the parts at the base of the cerebrum , and then influences the evolution of the superficial parts of the hemispheres .
The corpora striata appear to be specially affected , and through these the whole hemispheres , but the frontal lobe especially .
The interest of this observation in a general physiological view , and especially in regard to the mental condition of idiots , is pointed out .
7 .
It is not certain whether the idiots ' brains had undergone any local evolutional change as the result of education or training .
8 .
It is certain that they had increased somewhat in size after the general cessation of evolutional changes in their form .
9 .
The idiots ' brains differ the woman 's being more developed on the whole , especially in the temporal regions .
Her mental powers were also greater .
10 .
These idiot brains are somewhat less developed than the two microcephalic cerebra figured by Leuret and Gratiolet .
11 .
The convolutions in the idiots ' brains are more simple than those of the higher Apes , and approach , in this respect , those of still lower Quadrumana .
But the points of difference between the idiots ' brains and those of the Quadrumana are very decided , They are human cerebra , although so imperfectly developed .
They show a general conformity to the cerebral plan of the Primates generally ; but already they manifest special human characters .
In regard to the internal structure of the cerebrum and cerebellum , many facts are noticed .
The commissural fibres of the corpus callosum are very imperfectly developed .
The lateral ventricles and their contents generally are fairly developed ; but the corpora striata are very small .
The cerebellum is well developed in all its parts in both idiots , but is not perfectly so in either .
It is larger in the idiot boy ; but the transverse commissural fibres are much less developed in him than in the woman .
In accordance with Malacarne 's statements , the laminae are fewer in number in both idiots ' brains than in the perfect brain .
The cerebellum is not merely larger , but much more developed in its form than the cerebrum , and it certainly continued to be developed to a much later period .
In a postscript-note , dated August 6th , 1863 , the author gives an account of the examination of two idiots ' brains preserved in the museum of St. Bartholomew 's HIospital , and also of a series of wax models of foetal brains in the museum of Guy 's Hospital .
The result of the additional information so obtained is entirely to confirm the descriptions and explanations given of the structure and mode of formation of the idiot brain ,

