]\gt ; IX .
The Electric of Nitric V. H. VELEY , , F.R.S. , and J. J. MANLEY , Curator , College , Oxford .
Received November ] Read December 9 , 1897 .
INTRODUCTORY .
OF the commoner mineral acids the chemical changes of Nitric Acid , from their evident complexity , have formed the subject of numerous memoirs , while those of sulphuric acid , from their assumed simplicity , have been bo some degree neglected ; on other hand , the physical properties of the latter have been studied with considerable elaboration , while those of the former have been ) assed over , doubtless on account of corrosive nature of the acid and the difficulty of preparing and preserving it in a reasonable degree of purity .
Further , with certain exceptious , the alterations in physical properties induced by the products of reduction , be they nitrogen peroxide or nitrous acid , either singly or conjointly , have attracted but little attention , though it is a common matter of observation that the intensity of a Grove 's or other cell containing nitric acid remains constant , even though the fuming acid , originally colourless or red , has become of a deep green tint .
It is more than that of the factors of OHM'S law , both the E.M.F. and internal resistance are continually varying .
At the earliest ages of the enquiry it was found that the passage 01 a few bubbles of nitric oxide gas into a considerable volume of nitric acid produced an alteration of one per cent. in the resistance , and the same result could be effected to a less degree by exposure to sunlight , and to a still less degree by exposure to artificial illumination .
Therefore , we determined to investigate the alterations of conductivity pro duced by changes of concentration temperature in of acid puriiied with necessary precautions , more especially as former ers upon the subject have either used samples of acid confessedly impure , or have been silent as to any method of purification , or have adopted no special care in dealing with a substan so susceptible of polarisation .
At the outset we desire to state that it is proposed to view our results from the standpoint of the hydrate theoly , and to point out any abrupt alterations of physical properties of itric acid corresponding to any icular concentrat , ion , .
in Pure acids and clean vessels are glib phrases , which represent unattainable ideals ; we only trust that we have adopted reasonable precautions of purification , and that even if our determinations are not of absolute yet the arguments deducible from them are not seriously affected .
Lastly , we desire to express our obligations to the Rev. F. , of Trinity College , Oxford ; Mr. E. H. GRIFFITH .
, of Sydney ussex c , Cambridge , for assistance in the experimental portion ; to Mr. R. for photographs ; to the Chemical Department of the University Oxford , for loan of apparatus ; to Mrs. V. H. VELEY , for certain illustrations ; and to the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society for moneys to defray a moiety of the expenses , The work was conducted partly in the Chemical Department of the University Museum , and partly in the laboratory of Magdalen College .
FORMER INVESTIGATIONS ON ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITIES .
KOHLRAUSCH and GROTRTAN determined the conductivity of dilute nitric acid of concentrations varying from to per cent. , seven points in all , and at three different ' temperatures for each ation , in order to deduce the values of the constants and in the equation .
These writers adopted their well-known method of alternating currents , but allowed that the acid used was impure , as they Die concentrirte Salpetersaure , ursprunglich farblos , hat nach langerem Stehen eine hellgelbe Farbung angenommen , offenbar durch Bildung eines Spurs von salpetriger Saure unter dem Einfluss des Lichtes Their investigations , however , brought out an interesting detail , namely , that the conductivity increases with the percentage concentration up to 30 to 33 per cent. , and subsequently decreases ; in the sequel this point will be more fully discussed .
OSTWALD , .
adopting KOHLRAUSCH'S telephone method with slight modifications , made a number of determinations of the molecular conductivity of nitric acid , diluted so as to contain a gram-molecular weight in volumes of water varying from 2 to 8 , 192 litres .
Finally , BOUTYS studied the changes in conductivity caused by the solution in * ' Journal of the Chemical Sociely , ' 1890 , Trans. , 64-184 .
'Ann .
Phys. Chem vol. 154 , pp. 215-239 .
'Journ .
Prakt .
Chem ] .
, p. 228 , and vol. 31 , p. 437 ; also 'Zeits .
Physiokal Chem vol. 1 , p. 75 .
S ' Count .
Rend vol. 106 , p. 596 .
THE hECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
367 nitric acid of small quantities of metallic nitrates .
This work has , however , an indirect bearing upon the present investigation .
PRELIMINARY EXPERIMENTS .
In consequence of certain initial difficulties , periments- were made upon the effects produced by ( 1 ) an added impurity of nitrous acid ; ( 2 ) sunlight ; and ( 3 ) im- perfect insulation of the electrolytic cell .
The results obtained may serve to explain certain discrepancies between our values and those of previous wolkers .
( 1 .
) Added Impurity of Nitrous Acid.\mdash ; The following experiment serves to trate this point .
' to which reference was made in the introductory section : resistance of a mixture of 1 vol. of acid and 4 vols .
of water was found to be ohms ; a few bubbles of nitric oxide gas passed in so as to form a trace of nitrous acid caused an in , or 1 per cent. in round figures .
( 2 .
) Sunlight.\mdash ; It is a common matter of observation that the space above the liquid in a partially-filled bottle of trated nitric acid contains coloured fumes , though the liquid itself may be almost colourless .
This would show that the vapour rather than the liquid was decomposed by the action of light .
In order to decide this point a comparative experiment was made by taking two stoppered flasks of the same capacity , and presumably of the me glass .
One of these was completely , and the other partially filled with acid of 85 per cent. concentration , which contained one part per million of nitrous acid .
Both flasks were exposed to the direct sunlight of an April day for two hours thirty minutes .
Though the amount of nitrous acid in the former sample was unaltered , that in the latter was increased to 21 parts per million , and it had become bright yellow in colour .
As a further illustration , the following experiment may also be quoted : resistance of a certain length of acid ( 1 : 4 as above ) was found to be ohms , but after exposure for six hours to the diffnse daylight of a dull and cloudy day in October , the resistance bad altered to ohms , or an increase of 2 per cent. in round numbers , both experiments being made under the same conditions of temperature .
( 3 .
) Imperfect of Cell.\mdash ; As it appears from the diagrams given in certain standard text-books on physical chemistry that the electrolytic cells may be kept rigid by metallic clamps , it was thought desirable to ascertain if such an arrangement lead to incorrect erminations .
Our experiment showed that ( 1 ) winding the ends of a copper wire around the cell in the neighbourhood of the electrodes , ( 2 ) wrapping tin-foil round the whole cell , produced a diminuf , ion of resistance amounting to and per cent. respectively .
PURIFICATION 0F WATER Ordinary distil ] water was purified by ion with a few crystals of potassium permanganate and a few cubic centimetres of conceutrated sulphuric acid instead of potassium hydrogen sulphate , as recommended by STAS .
A slow current of purified hydrogen was passed through the water during the operation , which was conducted in a laboratory used for no other purpose .
The condensation was purposely kept somewhat imperfect to prevent any ammonia gas being redissolved in the cool water ; the first and ] fifths of the distillate were rejected , and the intermediate portion again distilled over barium hydrate to remove any sulphuric acid .
On the day before any conductivity experiments were made the water was distilled a third time in a platinum still fitted with a condensing tube and receiver of th.o same material , and a.gain also with imperfect condensation .
It was obseryed .
after several litres of the water had been distilled a deposit of silica , crystalline , was formed on the still .
Finally , a few hours previous to the encement of a series of experiments , the water contained in small bottles was frozen ( by immersion in a freezing mixture ) so as to obtain a hollow tube of central core of water was poured off , the ice quickly melted and mixed with 1 quantity of nitric acid necessary for the concentration required .
It is not , of cou1se , presumed that , by the method adopted , water was obtained of the degree of arrived at by KOHLRAUSCH and HEYDwEILlfR indeed , it was not necessary to use such precautions , when the soIutions to be measured would a conductivity many million times greater than that of the purified water , PURIFICATION 0F NITRIC ACID .
Two different methods were adopted for this purpose according as the concentration required was less or greater than 68 per cent. In the fotmer case , acid of .
gr. sold as pure , and nearly colourless , was distilled .
continuously under a pressure of a few millimetres in an appal.atns constructed entirely of glass , as to the essential parts , namely , the still , condenser and receiver .
The acid could be drawn up into the still , and syphoned off from the receiver by glass tubes provided with stop-cocks ; it was stored in tubes of hard glass ( a precaution adopted by STAS in his investigations upon atomic weights ) the ends of which were drawn off but not sealed , as it was found that the vapour of the acid given off at ordinary temperatures decomposed to produce nitrous fumes in the operation of sealing .
When acids of concentration greater than 68 per cent. were required , a proportion of the water was removed by distillation of such an acid with an equal bulk of sulphuric acid ; the pale yellow acid thus obtained was then redistilled with barium * Zeits .
Physikal Chem vol. 14 , p. 317 .
remaining dissolved .
* The acid thus obtained was subjected to a third process of ffictional distillation in an apparatus constructed all of glass as follows .
( fig. 1 ) is a distillation flask of about 400 cub. centims. capacity , the neck of which , considerably lengthened out , was sealed at its upper end to the top of a spiral condenser , , kept cool by a current of ice-cold water ; to the lower end of the latter the receiver was attached , which was provided with a stop-cock for drawing off the Fig. 1 .
condensed acid from time to time .
A side trap , , was sealeCL on to the upper end of the receiver , in order to retain any accidental spirting from the sulphuric acid towers , and ; these latter were about half a metre high , and filled for three-quarters of their length with glass beads moistened with sulphuric acid , which could be renewed by means of stop-cocks sealed at their lower extremity This process of cleansing and renewal was repeated not only previous to , but also during each distillation .
It found by experience that these towers were sufficient to prevent any moisture from passing from the water pump to the anterior portion of the apparatus .
The This process of purification was previously adopted by KOLB , ' Ann. Chim .
Phys. ' [ 4 ] vol. 10 , p. 140 .
Attempts were made to remove the water present by means of phosphorus pentoxide , but were unsuccessful owing to the rapid decomposition of the 99 per cent. acid by this substance .
VOL. CXCI.\mdash ; A. 8 in the first portions of the nitric acid condensed in the receiver .
This was drawn and the whole .
repeated until a small test sample of the acid produced no decoloration of a drop of standard potassium permanganate solution after the lapse of thirty minutes .
The effective method , acGording to our removing the last trace of nitrous fumes without either diluting the aei4 any other impurity , consists in passing a stream of dried ownised through the acid , and then subsequently distilling it in the above eliminate any dissolved gas .
DETECTION AND ESTIMATION 0F INPURITIBS .
The principal impurities likely to be present in any sample are trous acid , formed from the decomposition of the liquid itself , or its superincumbent vapour , ( ii .
) , sulphuric acid , , the haloid acids , namely , hydrochloria .
and hy\amp ; i.di , derived from the previous manufacture of the acid caliche and , , alkaline silicates or silica from the glass of the containing vessels .
The methods used to estimate the three first-mentioned impurities are described in detail .
Nitrous Aeid .
For this purpose the metaphenylene-diamipe method , by 1neans of which 1 part in 20 millions according to , its author ) can be eteotd , and according to our own observation a quantity less than 1 in 15 , but greater than 1 in 20 millions is revealed .
The standard test adopted was that of 1 part nitrous acid in 1 million parts of water , produced either by the liberation of that amount of nitrous aoid by the acidification of sodium nitrite ( obtained from silver or by an imitation tint formed from Bismarck.brown dissolved in dilute alcohol ; comparisons were made by the tintometer described by one of us in a previous communication .
Halogen A cids .
The solubility of silver chloride was fully investigated by in the course of his investigations upon the atomic weights .
According to this writer , the solubility * .
Cbim .
Pbys .
' [ 4 ] , vol. 25 , p. 22 , and [ 5 ] , vol. 3 , p. 145 .
: solubility is not affected by nitric acid .
The method of estimating the traces of ogen acids in the samples was as follows:\mdash ; 10 cub. centims. of the sample to be examined were placed in a miniature flask and 1 cub. centim. of a silver nitrate solution containing 05 gram of the salt was ed ; the turbidity , if any , was compared with that produced by the same quantities of purified water , the silver nitrate solution and a fractional part of 1 cub. centim. of a solution of hydrochloric acid of known .
It was found in the course of experiment that a of nitric acid of 20 per cent. concentration gave no turbidity with the silver nitrate , but on addition of 5 per million of hydrochloric acid a turbidity was produced which appeared to be equal in amount to a blank experiment , made at the same time , with water only ; but after standing for some hours the turbidity in the former case was less than that in the latter , and remained nearly white , instead of changing to a violet tint on exposure to diffuse daylight .
It was probable , therefore , that the chloride was being slowly decomposed by the nitric acid .
As a result of this observation , acids of concentration greater than 20 per cent. were diluted down to this strength , and the rison made with the blank water experiment after the interval of one hour .
It is not presumed that the estimations are of absolute accuracy , especially as the greatest quantity of haloid acids found in any sample was parts per million , the average being less than parts .
The correction to be applied for these amounts of impurity is of the second order*and may reasonably be neglected .
( iii .
) Sulphuric Acid .
The observations upon the of barium sulphate in water and in dilute nitric acid appear to be very discordant .
According to FRESENIUS and HINTZ one part of barium sulphate in 400,000 water can be detected provided that a slight excess of barium chloride is added , but only 1 in 100,000 parts if no such excess is present ; under the same conditions , in presence of nitric acid of per cent. concentration , only 1 part of barium sulphate in 33,000 can be detected .
These estimations were made with a view of examining the accuracy of the quantitative determination of sulphuric acid by barium chloride , as the precipitant , in the presence of various salts and acids which might be present in the course of analytical experience ; otherwise the use of barium chloride rather than the nitrate in the presence of nitric acid might be open to objection .
Furthermore , it is evident that the delicacy of the reaction between a barium salt and sulphuric acid will depend coeteris on the relative masses of the reacting substances .
The work * American Journal of Science , ' vol. 21 , p. 220 .
'Zeits .
Analyt .
Chem 1896 , vol. 33 , p. 170 .
of the nitric acid , which had been neutralised previously by a solution of ammonia ; the quantity of the barium nitrate was more than a hundredfold in excess of that required to precipitate the greatest amount of sulphuric acid likely to be present .
In a blank experiment with water which had been distilled over baryta it was found that .
parts of sulphuric acid per million water produced a turbidity with the barium nitrate ; but in the case of a sample of nitric acid of 50 per cent. concentration , after neutralisation with ammonia , parts of sulphuric acid per million produced a turbidity .
The mean of these two numbers , namely , may reasonably be taken as the limit of delicacy of the reaction within the limit of 0650 per cent. ; from the results calculated upon this basis the greatest quantity of phuric acid found was parts per million .
A selection is iven below ( p. 385 ) of various acids used in order to show the degree of purity attained .
DETERMINATION 0F THE CONCENTRATION 0F THE SOLUTIONS .
For this purpose standard solutions of sodium hydrate were made from metallic sodium , purified by melting it in vacuo and filtering the molten metal through iron gauze ; it was then placed in a silver dish and allowed to hydrate slowly in the vapour of water from a dilute soda solution ; the method adopted has previously been fully described .
The solution thus obtained was made up to a definite volume and standardised as against sulphuric and ( ii .
) hydrochloric ; the acidity of the former was determined volumetrically by sodium carbonate , and gravimetrically as barium sulphate , that of the latter volumetrically by pure silver , by the method of STAS , and ( ii .
) volumetrically by sodium carbonate .
Three different methods and two different indicators , namely , litmus and methyl-orange , were used by two different individuals .
The degree of concordance obtained for one such standard solution of soda is shown by the following table:\mdash ; * .
Anorgan .
Chem vol. 112 , p. 261 .
THE IJLECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
TABLE I. onateBarium , For the determination of the nitric acid solutions a weighed quantity was expelled from a pyknometer , neutralised by a slight excess of the standard sodium hydrate , and the amount of such excess added determined by a solution of hydrochloric acid of equivalent strength of the soda .
STANDARDISATION 0F THERMOMETERS .
The thermometers employed were graduated to C. , and were compared with a standard Kew thermometer which could be read to F. , and ( ii .
) , within certain limits , wich another standard graduated to C. , constructed by BAUDIN and formerly in the collection of the 8th Duke of MARLBOROUGH .
The zero displacements of all the instruments were determined by immersing them in a inder filled with washed ice , and surrounded by an outer jacket packed with the same material .
The readings were made with a telescope , furnished with cross wires and mounted on glass plates , after the manner of QUINCKE'S reading microscope .
For the estimation of the errors at higher temperatures , the thermometers were suspended in a deep ( containing several gallons of water ) , so that the thread of mercury at the point to be observed was just visible above the surface ; the instruments were arranged in a line with the standard in the middle , so that by a slight rotatory movement of the telescope stand each of them could be brought into the field of view in rapid succession .
The water was warmed about above the point required , allowed to cool slowly , while thoroughly stirred , and a first set of readings taken ; the process of stirring was repeated , and a second set taken ; in case of any variation , the mean value was accepted .
At the commencement and conclusion of each set of observations , the standards were read , and their constancy throughout was regarded as a safe criterion that the temperature of the large mass of water had not appreciably altered .
The whole series of observations was repeated for every within the range required , and in the case of two thermometers found to be less uniform in bore than the others , readings were taken at an interval of each degree .
were adopted : that described by BUNSEN ( Gasometrische Methode ) , namely , by pouring in equal volumes of mercury and reading the different levels by a telescope , the absolute volume of the measuring tube being subsequently ascertained by two independent weighings of mercury at the temperature of the observation ; by pouring in from a funnel such a weight of mercury as would fill the burette for every tenth graduation in cubic centimetres , the temperature bein noted at the time .
The following results are given to illustrate the concordance obtained by the two methods:\mdash ; TABLE II .
The mean values were accepted as the true volumes .
In order to measure the ifferent lengths so as to deduce the cross.sectional areas , a pair of slide callipers was used , reading to 01 centim. and compared with a standard metre .
The highest and lowest value for the area within the limits of observation were and sq .
centims. respectively , so that the burette was of a fairly uniform bore .
RESISTANCE COILS .
The resistance coils , supplied by Messrs. ELLIOT BROS .
, and marked as true ohms at were standardised by Mr. E. H. GRIFFITHS as against his coils , which had .
Un kindness in this matter .
Two sets of determinations were made at different times and at slightly different tempel.atures .
The results are given as true ohms , when the thermometer used always for the box registered a temperature of TABLE III .
With the exception of the 50-ohm coil the results are concordant to within 001 ohm , and in the majority of cases to ohIn , which is within the limit of experimental error .
The values of the higher coils were referred to the 50-ohm coil by reducing the bridge arm to ; they not , therefore , of such a high degree of accuracy , but these coils were seldom required .
TElfPERATuRE COEFFICIENT 0F BRIDGE WIRE .
The bridge wire , supplied by Messrs. JOHNSON and MATTHEY , was of platinum(90 per cent. ) iridium ( 10 per cent. ) alloy ; its mean diameter was millim. In order to determine its temperature coefficient , a small portion was drawn out to 005 millim. diameter , and the wire introduced into a Callendar-Griffiths pyrometer .
Its resistance at the three temperatures of am , ice , and was determined by one of their platinum resistance boxes , in which the compensating leads are The boiling point of water for is ; hence the value for under this condition is ICE .
Hence , if , similarly , for was found in the same manner to be .
Taking at as 1 , at , and at , the curvature is very slight , and is expl eible by the equation ; but if , and the equation for the temperature coefficient is , with a probable error of 1 in 1000 .
CONSTRUCTION 0F THE BRIDGE .
In .
preliminary experiments with the ordinary form of metre bridge used with telephone and small induction coil as described by KOHLRAUSCH and others , difficulty THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
was experienced in obtaining silence in the telephone within the limits desired .
This woe eventually traced to imperfect insulation of the wooden board , even though well geasoned and previously soaked with paraffin.wax ( figs. 2 and 3 ) .
It was thereFig .
2 .
Fig. 3 .
fore thought desirable to construct a bridge in which the wire was an air line , and all the strappings were mounted upon ebonite pillars .
The wire was stretched between two massive brass castings , , and insulated from them by ebonite plates , bb ; at one end it was fixed to a pin , and at the other to a stretching screw , , so arranged VOL. wire , the following plan was adopted two weighted opposed cones , , moved upon ) two uniform glass cylinders , , placed side by side and set parallel to the wire , according to the principle of Lord KELVIN , that a body provided with four points will always move parallel to itself along a cylinder .
A brass shoe , , carrying a plate projected from the centre of the cones at a right angle and rested upon the millimetre scale of the bridge ; the ition of the slider was indicated by a line etched upon the lower surface of the glass plate , and observed through a window , , situated vertically above it .
A platinum contact piece , , mounted upon an ebonite rod , , was adjusted to within a fraction of a millimetre of the wire .
When it was desired to make contact , an insulated arm , , was brought down upon the wire from above by tiJting the lever , .
In order to move the slider a wheel , was attached to one of two pulleys , over which passed a cord kept stretched by a spiral spring .
For the purpose of fine adjustment , t , he wheel , , was furnished with a rubber band , cemented at its edge , on which a second and smaller wheel , could be brought to bear by releasin the lever , ; from the latter wheel projected an arnl , , which rested upon the end of the milled head screw , .
By this arrangement the slider could be moved by the observer from the extremity of the bridge , and thermo-currents due to his proximity and direct handling were avoided .
CALIBRATION 0F BRIDGE WIRE .
The wire was placed in the bridge , stretched to the requisite extent , and allowed to rest undisturbed for nine weeks ; then it was calibrated by CAREY FOSTER'S method , using as a gauge a short length of the same wire soldered on to massive copper terminals and a copper connector of the same length , both of which were joined to the bridge by mercury cups furnished with stout copper tags .
The process of calibration was conducted on two different dates .
The wire was found to be very uniform throughout , the ighest and lowest values for the resistance of 1 millim. bein and 0001510 ohm respectively .
The total resistance of the 851 millims. in the centre of the , as also of the ends of the bridge , were determined by a fall of potential method , using one Daniell cell working through a resistance of 200 ohms , a standard coil of ohm value , and a high resistance galvanometer ; the current was uniform within limits of time greatly in excess of those required for the observation ; the necessary corrections for the temperature coefficient were subsequently applied .
Ten independent observations were made of the total resistance , one set of two on ono date , and another set of eight after an interval of a week .
For the interchange of the standard coils and , a switch board , constructed upon S. P. THONPSON'S pattern , was used .
The mercury cups were mounted upon ebonite stems to seoure better THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NJTRIC ACID .
379 and for the purpose of better contact between the copper connectors and tags the former were furnished with leaden weights instead of the more troublesome elastic bands generally used .
THB COMMUTATOR .
In our earlier experiments a small induction coil was used according to the wellknown KOHLRAUSCH method , but owing to the susceptibility of the nitric acid to polarisation , this apparatus was found to be unsatisfactory .
A commutator of the disc pattern was therefore substituted , being driven by a small water-motor served through a Kelvin tap to secure a regular flow of water ; the necessary electric current was obtained from a one-quart Daniell cell .
* The speed of the commutator disc was determined by a kymograph , a lever arrangement being fitted up so as to give one vibration for each revolution .
A number of experiments showed that the revolutions varied between the extreme limits of 16 and 20 per second ; as the disc carried nine commutators , there were for each revolution 18 makes and breaks and 9 reversals ; this gives per second 288-360 of the former and ] 44-180 of the latter .
In order to test the efficacy of this method , the alternating currents were led directly into nitric acid of various concentrations for one hour .
No evidence of polarisation could be detected when the commutating arrangement was switched off and the electrodes simultaneously connected up with a very sensitive galvanometer , and , further , no trace of nitrous acid .
could be detected by the metaphenylenediamine test .
The commutator , working-cell , and water-motor were placed in a different wing of the building , the current being brought into the experimental room by leads twisted together .
GENERAL OF APPARATUS ( Diagram I ) .
represents the commutator , its leads , a key for either short-circuiting the current ( position 1 ) , or connecting up with the bridge and electrolytic cell ( position 3 ) or breaking connection altogether ( position 2 ) .
is a small bifilar coil to the emities of which the leads of a call telephone , , were attached , the latter serving to detect any alteration or failure of the commutator .
is a resistance box , the coils of which were adjusted so as to approximately compensate any alteration in the standard resistance , , and therefore to maintain the current uniform through the whole series of experiments ; is a switchboard , a box of auxiliary cells used in connection with CAREY method , and a balancing telephone .
The leads and connecting the with ) bridge consisted of ten strands of * The current of this cell , measured by a standard tangent galvanometer , was found to be 22 ampero when flowing through the commutator at rest , but it would probably be rather less when the commutator was rapidly running , owing to a consequent increase of resistance in the contacts .
Showing general anangement the apparatus .
No. 18 copper wire soldered on to massive copper tags ; their resistances were determined in position and found to be as nearly as possible equal ; the leads ( of similar construction ) to the standard coils were of resistance.005 ohm .
, a constant fac , tor added to all values of R. THE ELECTROLYTIC CELLS .
Cell .
Several forms of cell were adopted in the earlier experiments , but as all those of the or bottle pattern , as described by KOHLRAUSCH , involve their calibration by a solution of an electrolyte of known conductivity , it was resolved to use a cell of a straight burette form , with one electrode fixed , and the other movable , so as to throw different lengths of the acid into circuit , and thus obtain independent measurements .
For this purpose the movable electrode was welded on to a platinum wire passing through a glass tube to the binding-screw , ( fig. 4 ) ; above this a similar tube was fasteued , upon which was etched a centimetre scale copied directly from the standard .
In order to ensure that the whole arrangement should slide parallel to its axis , the graduated tube was allowed to run in grooves : THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVIIY OF .
NITRIC ACID .
881 lnted upon a block of ebonite , and provided with a small spring to avoid dental displacement ; their rotation was prevented by a small arm , , working in tube guides , .
A cord passing over the pulleys , and , was attached to upper end of the graduated tube , and otherrnd to an arm ; this cord could Fig. 4 .
be shortened by suitable loops , and the final adjustments effected by means of the kymograph screw , K. The divisions of the tube were observed by a telescope mounted on a rigid stand .
To secure perfect insulation the cell rested upon and against blocks of ebonite , and , the two latter beingy grooves , against which it was kept pressed by elastic bands .
Preliminary experiments already described showed that fasterlings of a ( ii .
) Temperature Coefficient Cell ( fig. 5 ) .
This was a tube of sq .
centims. , cross sectional area , rigidly attached to an insulating stand containing the electrodes , both movable in this case and welded on to platinum wires passing through capillary .
The upper ends of thesewere tied and cemented on to an ebonite block which could be made to rest upon either of two brackets furnished with a hole , slot and plane arrangement similar to that used for KELVIN galvanometer .
When the block rested on the lower bracket iposition Fig. 5 .
Temperature coefficient cell .
Electrolytk No. 2 .
A ) , measnrements were made of the resistance of the leads and the acid in the of the ; when , on the upper bracket ( position B ) , the total resistance was ma\amp ; up of these , together with the introduced length of acid , being double that of the height through which the electrodes had been lifted .
To obtain , so far as possible , independent meeasurements the process of raising and]owering the electrodes was repeated during any one series of experiments .
The top of each limb of the tube was closed with platinum discs .
THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
( ui .
) Cell for Acids from to per cent. Concentration .
As the acid above 70 per cent. is very hygroscopic and its fumes are liable to attack the eIectric connections , a cell for use not only at a particular but also at any required temperature was devised , as follows : a cylinder of glass , with an etched centimetre scale , was drawn out at its lower end and a vacuum tap sealed on ; the upper end Iosed by an accul.ately ground glass cap carrying a tube on which were etched two lines at a distance of centims. apart .
Within this tube moved a piece of thermometer tubing so as to form a stuffing-box arrangement containing within it the platinum Iead from the movable ; one line was etched upon it , which could be made to coincide with either line upon the outer tube .
The method of measurement was similar to that described in ( standard cell ) , whole was , as in previous cases , thoroughly insulated .
It was found that acid could be preserved in this cell for a considerable time without any appreciable change of concentration .
The electrodes for all the above cells were coated with the velvet-like deposit of platinum , which , according to the experience of KoHLRAUSCfl and successive writers , gives the most satisfactory results .
After preparation they were kept immersed for some weeks in prepared distilled water , which was frequently changed .
TANKS F0R ELECTROLYTIC CELLS .
Two zinc tanks , of many gallons capacity , and furnished with covers , were used in the course of the investigation ; they were both similarly constructed , one of two , the other of three concentric chambers ; the innermost , ofsmall dimensions , containing the electrolytic cell with its accessories , stood on three legs , so as to raise its level about six inches ; the other , of large dimensions , furnished with ring stirrers , was filled with water to a level above that of the top of the electrolytic cell .
It was found that a difference of between the tank and room temperatures caused only a fall in the former of 1o after two hours ; there was , therefore , no appreciable alteration of temperature in the course of any set of experiments lasting only a few minutes .
Standardised thermometers were placed both in the outer and inner chambers ; when their corrected readings differed only by it was assumed that equilibrium of temperature in the outer and inner chambers had been established .
When a temperature of was required , the outer ) of the triple-chambered tank contained air only , and the middle chamber was filled with finely-powdered ice , the water melting from which was continuously drained off .
For other temperatures , water was run into the outer chamber , and steam blown in , if necessary .
measurements were made in order to ascertain approximately the conductivity of the acid , and thus not only to facilitate the final measurement , but also to elimi.nate the risk of decomposition .
The cell was then emptied , recharged with a second portion of the acid , and connections made as before ; after an interval of some hours the final measurements were made as follows:\mdash ; The gladuated glass tube was adjusted so that division 5 of its scale coincided with the point of intersection of the cross threads of the telescope ; the standard coils were placed in the left gap ( L ) and the electrolytic cell in the right gap ( R ) of the bridge ; if then the current from the commutator was found satisfactory , connection was made with the bridge and its accessol.ies , and a first balance obtained .
current was then switched off , the position of the coils and electrolytic cell interchanged , the current switched on , and a second balance obtained .
The movable electrode was then raised to division 15 on the scale , and the value of the standard coils altered so that their combined resistances were approximately equal to those of the introduced length of acid and leads ( as determined by the preliminary experiment ) , while simultaneously the resistances in the control box were also changed so as to maintain the current irJtensity uniform .
Then balancings were obtained with the electrolytic cell successively in the and gaps as before .
The whole series of operations were repeated for the introduction of the second length of acid caused by raising the graduated glass tube another five divisionoe .
The thermometers in the standard resistance box , bridge and tanks were read before and after each set of observations , and any necessary corrections for alteration of temperature subseq.uently applied .
As an illustration , all the measurements and observations for two samples of acid , namely of and 30.52 per cent. concentration are given ; these particular values have been selected as those of maximum and minimum conductivity for each form of electrolytic cell .
THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
Series .
Impurities in parts per million .
I. Halogen acids Sulphuric acid Nitrous acid Nitrous acid ourse o TABLE V. VOL. CXCI.\mdash ; A. Hence , from these data , the values for the constants and in the equation can be deduced .
PREPARATION AND PROPERTIES 0F ANEyDROUS ACID By the vacuum apparatus described in the previous part of the paper it was not found possible to obtain acid of concentration greater than per cent. With a view of eliminating the remainder of the water , another apparatus was construc all of glass , but without any glass taps , through which .
however perfect , moist air may find a passage .
TT ( Diagram IL ) are drying towers similar to those in the first form of apparatus .
are thick-walled capillary tubes , which can be sealed off in succession , is the distillation flask of about cub. centims. capacity , and the electrolytic cell fur- nished with another capillary , , sealed before distillation , but which subsequently served to withdraw a sample of acid for analysis after the determination of conductivity .
The apparatus anterior to the towers was dried by exhausting through capillary , and suDsequently admitting dry air , the whole process being repeated a number of times , while the glass was kept continuously warmed by a flame ; is then sealed , acid of per cent. drawn up into the distillation flask through the suction tube , which was then sealed off .
The whole apparatus was then exhausted by the pump , and the flask gently warmed until the acid began to dietil over into the towers ; when this was observed the source of heat was removed , and the whole of the tube THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF ACID .
continuously heated to free it from any condensed acid ; then it was sealed off at the lowest possible temperature whiIe the pump was kept in aciion .
By immersing in a\amp ; eezing mixture acid passed over from , and this process was allowed to continue until the upper electrode was well covered ; the rolytic cffi was then detached by cutting off at , plugging the opening immediately by a sealed capillary , and covering the whole with a glass cap. Though it is true that a trace of moisture might be introduced here , yet the error due to this would be less than that caused Diagram II .
Apparatus employed for the preparation of the anhydrous acid .
by the decomposition of the vapour of acid if had been sealed in a flame ; thus , of two evils , the less was chosen .
The acid thus obtained was perfectly colourless .
Analyses made after measurement of conductivity gave the following values:\mdash ; Acid , per cent. mean .
Determinations were made of its density at , and ( vide infra ) , and a further pair of analyses made , with the result : Acid , per cent. last observer .
CALIBRATION 0F CELL AND WIRES USED F0R ANHYDROUS ACID .
As the method originally proposed by KOHLRAUSCH and adopted by subsequent workers for determining the " " resistance capacity\ldquo ; of their cells appeared in this particular case to involve manipulative difficulties and errors consequent therefrom , the following method was used .
The distance between the inner surface of the electrodes determined along nine different lengths ; the mean value found was centims. ; the volume of the portion of the cell between the electrodes was measured by water delivered from a calibrated burette connected with the cell by pressure-tubing , readings being taken for the levels of the upper surface of the lower electrode and lower surface of the upper electrode .
Five or six series of experiments were conducted , different burette levels being taken in each such series ; the mean of all the values was cub. centims. , with an error of per cent. From these data the mean sectional area was calculated to be sq .
centims. In order to determine the resistance of the plat , inum leads sealed into the cell , their lengths were measured and the resistance of a known length of the same wire determined by CAREY FOSTER'S method ; the value thus calculated was added to that of the copper wire leads which joined the cells to the bridge , due allowance being made in each case for its coefficient at the temperature of the experiment .
Such indirect measurements cannot , of course , lay claim to absolute accura , but .
appeared to be the best attainable after the cell had been fitted up and used for the experimental determinations .
Chemical Properties of Anhydroers Acid .
As a considerable quantity of the anhydrous acid was prepared in the course of the enquiry some of its properties were examined .
It has no action upon the following metals copper , silver , ( iu .
) cadmium , ( iv .
) mercury , all of a high degree of purity , and commercial magnesium at ordinary temperatures ; purified iron and commercial granulated tin were unaffected by the acid even when boihng .
Zinc purified by frequent distillation in vacuo was slighlly acted upon at temperatures , but sodium immediately caught fire .
The acid has no. action whatever * Journal of the Chemical Society , ' 1893 Trans. , p. 65 .
'Journal of the Society of Chemical lndustry , !
1891 , p. 548 .
Ann. Chim .
Phys. ' [ 4 ] ; vol. 10 , p. 140 .
and then catches fire , while a considerable quantity of a dark-red sublimate ( probably phosphorus suboxide ) condenses in the walls of the tube above the surface of the liquid ; flowers of sulphur , as also iron pyrites , dissolve quickly and completely in the gently-warmed acid .
Nitration of aromatic hydrocarbons is readily effected by the acid , whilst such a substance as chloral hydrate is decomposed , with complete conversion of the chorine into hydrochloric acid .
( ii .
) Determination of Density .
For this purpose the form of Sprengel pyknometer , as modified by DITTMAR , was used , and of capacity about 54 cub. centims. ; the ends of both were closed by caps , and on account of the high coefficient of expansion a series of bulbs were blown on one limb of the tube .
The necessary corrections were made for reducing the observations to weighings in vacuo .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; Density Density Density Mean Mean Mean The values obtained by former observers are given for the sake of comparison .
Observer .
Values .
The results of LUNGE and NEF , as also of PERKIN , do not differ materially from those obtained by us after allowance is made for the slightly higher percentage strength and lower temperature , while those of KOLB are considerably higher ; the method adopted by the last for the determination of acidity was , however , open to considerable objection , though his preliminary metbods of purification were similar to those described above .
It is proposed to publish shortly an account of the determination of densities and of other physical properties of the acid to contirm the nclusions drawn from the present work .
one , the space of two inches between them being packed with cotton wool .
Two thermometers were introduced through the lids , so that their bulbs were in the centre .
The maximum change registered during an hour was never more than onetenth of a degree .
The process of working was as follows : inary method was first employed to obtain the value for , then the auxiliary coils introduced into circuit and the determinations repeated .
It will be seen from the following table that the results obtained by the two methods are concordant when due allowance is made for the slight variation of temperature .
TABLE VII .
As a matter of experience it was found that for FOSTER'S method the electrodes should be continually recoated with the platinum deposit , otherwise it was difficult to ascertain exactly the point of minimum sound in the telephone .
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS .
The approximate temperatures selected observation were , and for acids of percentage concentration from 1.3 to 50 , but , and above this strength , as the more concentrated acids are not only extremely volatiIe , but also liable to decomposition .
In Table VIII .
the values given the specific resistanoes in true ohms , rrectd THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTJVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
391 , and for temperature coefficients ; these of the first and second order , ltiplied by ] and respectively , are shown in the fifth and sixth columns .
TABLE VIII .
Iu Table IX .
, the values for ] for the different concentrations obtained in Cell No. I. represent for each length of acid the mean of two , and in some cases three , four , and six , independent observations ; the values are concordnnt in the majority of cases to 05 per cent. , which is probably within the limit of experimental error ; the values for Cells II .
and IIL also represent the mean of several experiments .
In Table X. , values for and are given for the sake of comparison of our results with those of other observers .
Throughout the conductivity of mercury at is taken as unity , and its specific resistance as microhms per 1 cub. centim. TABIR IX .
Measurements with Cell No. I. rrFE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
Values o From the given in Table VIII .
, it is evident that the specific resistance of nitric acid decreases for percentage concentrations from to 30 , at first more , then less rapidly ; from this point the resistance increases slow , lie up to 76 per cent. , thence more rapidly , until a maximum is reached at per cent. , when a sudden reversal takes place .
KOHLRAUSOH , by interpolation of his results , gives the points of maximum conductivity at 29 per cent. at per cent. at , and per cent. at , data which are in general accordance with our results , though it is evident that the exact minimum point could only be ascertained to within one-tenth per cent. , by a number of experimental determinations made on either side of the point in question , whereas KOHLRAUSCH gives data only for 23 , , and 3736 per cent. , respectively .
As the reversal between 96.12 and was wholly unexpected , and at first sight appeared anomalous , the determinations were continued within small percentage limits , and the results thereby confirmed .
Upon t , his matter ARRHENIUS expressed himself as follows : Es ist wohl kaum denkbar dass man nach den bisherigen Ansichten ohne Zuhilfenahme der Dissociationstheorie die Existenz von negativen Temperaturkoeffizienten erklaren konnte OSTWALD , and other writers of the same school , when quoting the results of ARRHENIUS , have adopted the same view , with greater or less modification .
But in the case under discussion , nitric acid of concentration per cent. would , ex hypothesi , contain few , if any , free ions , and , therefore , the theory would lead to a totally opposite conclusion .
For the present it is not proposed to offer any explanation of the phenomenon observed , but merely to call attention to the somewhat analogous example of the density of sulphuric acid , which attains its maximum at per cent. ( PICKERING , LUNGE , NEF , and ISLER ) and thence decreases up to per cent. ( PICKERING ) .
In the paper quoted above , ARRHENIUS calculates , by interpolation , the temperature of maximum conductivity of nitric acid as at , but to our minds it is idle to speculate upon its properties at a temperature far aboye that at which it could have any existence .
HYDRATES OF NITRIC ACID .
The existence of definite hydrates of nitric acid has been discussed by various writers from the standpoints of direct experimental observations ; ( ii .
) analogy of the composition of the metallic nitrates and of the phosphoric acids ; ( iii .
) differentiations of observed values ; tive evidence from the first of the methods appears the most cogent .
The following resume gives briefly the conclusions of the several writers : \mdash ; * .
Physikal .
Chem vol. 4 , p. 96 .
Note added June 17 , 1898.\mdash ; Since the above was written , the suggestion has been put forward that in the case of nitric acid of per cent. , there is an initial decomposition into water and the anhydride , precisely as sulphuric acid to a greater degree at a higher temperature , and to a less degree at a lower temperature , decomposes into water and its anhydride MENDELEEFF , of Chemistry\ldquo ; ; W. H. PERKIN , Sen. , ' Journal of Chemical Society Trans. , 1889 , p. 724 , and 1893 , p. 65 ; KouB ( vide ; BERTHELOT , ' M\amp ; anique PICKERING , ' Journal of Chemical Society , ' Trans. , , p. 436 ; CROMPTON , vbid .
, 1888 , VBLBY , ' Ber .
Deutsch .
Chem. Ges , ' vol. 28 , p. 928 .
: THE ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
per cent. Differentiation of density curve ( PICKERING ) .
, , , , , , , , Density curve ( MENDELEEFF ) .
53.85 , , ' , , , , , , , , Curve 1 .
Specific resistance of nitric acid at O. Curve 2 .
Specific resistance of nitl.ic acid at to C. In Table XI .
the values for and are given in relation to the proportions of water from to 07 , as it would seem that the method adopted by comparatively few writers on such subject as the present is the more rational , as nature deals with ) lecules , but art with percentages .
' THR ELECTRIC CONDUCTIVITY OF NITRIC ACID .
Cucur 3 .
CondconduCti in mercury units of tsid at C. TABLE XI .
From these figures it will be observed that the minima values for and maxima for occur in the cases of , 99 , and 55 molecular proportions of water , or very approximately , and , and the curve representing the conductivity units in terms of percentages is markedly discontinuous at points corresponding to the three last hydrates , the existence of which has also been confirmed by a series of experimental determinations of the densities and contractions of samples of acid of various concentrations .
Further evidence is thus added by an independent method to that already accumulated as to the existence of definite combinations of nitric acid with water .
In conclusion , we trust that these observations may serve as an addition to our knowledge of the electric and chemical properties of dilute , and especially of the most .
concentrated nitric acid , purified , as we hope , with such methods as are available in the present state of chemical art .
It appears that for this and similar investigations a material , which should at once be perfect in its transparency , its non-conductivity , and its unalterability by the strongest reagents , remains still an ideal .

