On Hybernation .
By MARSHALL HALL , M.D. F.R.S.E. M.R.I. 8c .
Sc. Communicated by J. G. CHILDREN , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read March 1st and 8th , 1832 .
THAT peculiar condition of certain mammalia during the winter season , which has been designated hybernation , has been aptly compared by various authors to ordinary sleep .
In both the respiration is diminished .
This fact was first determined , in regard to sleep , by Messrs. ALLEN and PEPYS .
It obtains in a much higher degree in the state of hybernation .
It is highly probable that in sleep , as in hybernation , the irritability of the muscular fibre becomes augmented .
These two conditions of the animal system may therefore mutually illustrate each other .
Ordinary sleep is similar to the sleep of the hybernating animal ; and the sleep of the hybernating animal is similar to that deeper sleep , or lethargy , which is designated hybernation .
We are thus led to trace a connexion between the recurrent sleep of all animals , and the deep and protracted sleep of a few .
I. Of the Sleep of hybernating Animals .
In the sleep of the hybernating animal , the respiration is more or less impaired : if the animal be placed in circumstances which best admit of observation , the acts of respiration will be found to have greatly diminished ; if it be placed in the pneumatometer , little alteration is induced in the bulk of the air ; if its temperature be taken by the thermometer , it will be found to be many degrees lower than that of the animal in its active state ; if it be deprived of atmospheric air , it is not immediately incommoded or injured .
These facts I have observed in the hedge-hog+ , the dormouse+ , and the bat ? .
If other authors have not made the same observations , it is because * Phil. Trans. for 1809 .
t Erinaceus Europeus .
t Myoxus avellanarius . ?
Vespertilio noctula .
2x2 they have not been aware how easily this sleep is disturbed .
To walk over the floor , to touch the table , is sufficient , in many instances , to rouse the animal , to re-produce respiration , and to frustrate the experiment .
The bat , which is a crepuscular or nocturnal feeder , regularly passes from its state of activity to one which may be designated diurnation .
The respiration and the temperature fail ; the necessity for respiration is greatly lessened .
During the summer of 1831 , I carefully observed a bat in this condition .
If it were quite quiet , its respiration became very imperfect ; its temperature was but a few degrees above that of the atmosphere ; being placed under water , it remained during eleven minutes uninjured , and on being removed became lively and continued well .
I have more recently watched the habits of two hedgehogs , in a temperature varying from 45 ?
to 50 ? .
These animals alternately awake , take food , and fall asleep .
One of them is frequently awake , whilst the other is dormant , and goes to sleep at a time that the other awakes , but without regularity .
When awake , the temperature of each , taken by pressing the bulb of a thermometer upon the stomach , is about 95 ?
; when dormant , it is 450 ; that of the atmosphere being 42 ?
or 43 ? .
The duration of this sleep is from two to three days , according to the temperature of the atmosphere .
On the 4th of February , 1832 , the temperature of the atmosphere being 50 ?
, both the hedgehogs were dormant , the temperature of one was 51 ?
, and that of the other 520 ; on the succeeding day , the temperature of the atmosphere had fallen one degree , the temperature of one of the hedgehogs was 490 , whilst that of the other , which had become lively , had risen to 87 ?
; on the succeeding day , the first had become somewhat lively , and its temperature had risen to 60 ?
, that of the other being 85 ?
, and that of the atmosphere 47 ? .
I have observed precisely the same alternations in the dormouse ; except that this animal awakes daily in moderate temperatures , takes its food , and passes into a state of sleep , in which the respiration is greatly impeded , and the temperature little higher than that of the atmosphere .
On the day on which the observations were made on the hedgehogs , the atmosphere being 49 ?
, that of two dormice was 52 ; on the succeeding day , the external temperature being 47 ?
, that is , lower by two degrees , the temperature of one of these dormice was 92 ?
, and that of the other 940 ; and only 336 three hours afterwards , the temperatures were 60 ?
and 700 respectively , with a slight appearance of lethargy .
The hedgehog and the dormouse appear , in fact , to awake from the call of hunger , then to eat , and then again to become dormant , in temperatures which may be termed moderate .
The bat , which could not find food if it did awake , does not undergo these periodical changes , except in the summer season .
It appears to me , from the most careful observation , that there is every degree between the ordinary sleep of these animals and the most profound hyber nation .
It is quite obvious , from these observations , that the ordinary sleep of hybernating animals differs from that of others , by inducing a more impaired state of the respiration and of the evolution of heat , with an augmented power of bearing the abstraction of the atmospheric air .
This sleep probably passes into true hybernation , as the blood which circulates through the brain becomes more and more venous , from the diminution of the respiration , and as the muscular fibre of the heart acquires increased irritability .
It is absolutely necessary , in comparing the powers of hybernating and other animals , of evolving heat , accurately to observe whether there be any degree of sleep .
Mr. HUNTER 's and M. EDWARDS'S experiments are extremely deficient , for want of this attention .
Mr. HUNTER , comparing the common mouse and the dormouse exposed to a very low temperature , observes , that the heat of the former " was diminished 16 ?
at the diaphragm , and 18 ?
in the pelvis , while in the dormouse it gained five degrees , but lost upon a repetition .
" The explanation of these facts is afforded by noticing that when the dormouse increased in temperature , it was " c very lively , " but on the " repetition " it had become " less lively* .
" M. EDWARDS omits to mention whether the hybernating animals in his experiments were disposed to be lively or dormant , or whether they had recently recovered from a dormant state .
Without a peculiar attention to this point , no correct result can be obtained .
The hybernating animal in a state of vigour and activity , is a totally different being from the same animal disposed to become dormant .
Of true Hybernation .
I now proceed to the detail of my observations upon actual hybernation , and especially upon the state of the respiration and the irritability , of the sensibility , the circulation , and the digestion , in this singular condition of the animal economy .
1 .
Of the Respiration .
The respiration is very nearly suspended in hybernation .
That this function almost ceases , is proved , 1st , by the absence of all detectible respiratory acts ; 2ndly , by the almost entire absence of any change in the air of the pneumatometer ; 3rdly , by the subsidence of the temperature to that of the atmosphere ; and 4thly , by the capability of supporting , for a great length of time % the entire privation of air .
1 .
I have adopted various methods to ascertain the entire absence of the acts of respiration .
I placed bats in small boxes , divided by a partition of silk ribbon , the cover of which consisted of glass , and in the side of which a small hole was made to admit of placing a long light rod or feather under the animars stomach .
The least respiratory movement caused the extremity of this rod to pass through a considerable space , so that it became perfectly apparent .
Over the hybernating hedgehog I placed a similar rod , fixing one extremity near the animal , and leaving the other to move freely over an index .
During hybernation not the slightest movements of these rods could be observed , although they were diligently watched .
But the least touch , the slightest shake immediately caused the bat to commence the alternate acts of respiration , whilst it invariably produced the singular effect of a deep and sonorous inspiration in the hedgehog .
It is only necessary to touch the latter animal to ascertain whether it be in a state of hybernation , or not : in the former case there is this deep sonorous inspiration ; in the latter , the animal merely moves and coils itself up a little more closely than before .
After the deep inspiration , there are a few feeble respirations , and then total quiescence .
The bat makes similar respirations without the deep inspiration , and then relapses into suspended respiration .
2 .
As the acts of respiration are nearly suspended during hybernation , so are the changes induced in the atmospheric air , 338 On January the 28th , the temperature of the atmosphere being 42 ?
, I placed a bat in the most perfect state of hybernation and undisturbed quiet , in the pneumatometer , during the whole night , a space of ten hours , from 11h 301 to 11 1 30m .
There was no perceptible absorption of gas .
Having roused the animal a little , I replaced it in the pneumatometer , and continued to disturb it from time to time , by moving the apparatus .
It continued inactive , and between the hours of Ih 20 and 4h , there was the absorption of one cubic inch only of gas .
Being much roused at four o'clock , and replaced in the pneumatometer , the bat now continued moving about incessantly ; in one hour , five cubic inches of gas had disappeared .
It was then removed .
A further absorption took place of '8 of a cubic inch of gas .
Thus the same little animal , which , in a state of hybernation , passed ten hours without respiration , absorbed or converted 5,8 cubic inches of oxygen gas into carbonic acid , in one hour , when in a state of activity .
In an intermediate condition , it removed one cubic inch of oxygen in two hours and forty minutes .
I repeated this experiment on February the 18th .
A bat , in a state of perfect hybernation , was placed in the pneumatometer , and remained in it during the space of twenty-four hours .
There was now the indication of a very slight absorption of gas , not , however , amounting to a cubic inch .
On February the 22nd , I repeated this experiment once more , continuing it during the space of sixty hours ; the thermometer descended gradually , but irregularly , from 41 ?
to 38 ?
; the result is given in the subjoined Table .
External Date .
Temperature .
Absorption .
Duration .
0h February 22 11 P.M ... 41 23 1 A.M ... 38. .
8. .
12 11 P.M. .
392 .
' 75. .
12 24 11 A.M. .
38. .
'5. .
12 11 P.M ... 39. .
-75. .
12 25 11 A.M ... 38. .
6. .
12 3*4 60 From this experiment it appears that 3'4 cubic inches of oxygen gas disappeared in sixty hours , from the respiration of a bat in the state of lethargy .
It has been seen that in a state of activity , an equal quantity of this gas disappeared in less than half that number of minutes .
The respiration of the hybernating bat descends to a sub-reptile state ; it will be seen shortly that the irritability of the heart and of the muscular fibre generally , is proportionably augmented .
In this experiment it is probable that the lethargy of the animal was not quite complete .
Should the temperature of the atmosphere fall , and continue at 32 ?
, I shall again repeat it under these circumstances .
The respiration will probably be still more nearly suspended .
It is important to remark , that the registration of the quantity of absorption in these experiments was not begun until several hours after the animal had been enclosed within the jar of the pneunatometer , so that the absorption of the carbonic acid always present in atmospheric air , was excluded from the result .
It may be a question whether the slight quantity of respiration I have mentioned be cutaneous .
The absence of the acts of respiration would lead us to this opinion .
But it may be observed , that these acts have not been watched , and can scarcely be watched continuously enough , to determine the question of their entire absence .
Some contrivance to ascertain whether the rod has moved along the index during the absence of the observer , would resolve every doubt upon this interesting point .
And I think it right to remark , that after the apparent total cessation of respiration , as observed by the means which have just been described , there is probably still a slight diaphragmatic breathing .
I am led to this conclusion , by having observed a slight movement of the flank in a favourable light , unattended by any motion of the thorax or epigastrium .
3 .
Much precaution is required in ascertaining the comparative temperature of the animal with that of the atmosphere .
The slightest excitement induces a degree of respiration , with the consequent evolution of heat .
The plan which is best adapted to determine this question in regard to the bat , and which I have adopted , together with every attention to preserve the animal quiet and undisturbed , is the following : A box was made of mahogany , with a glass lid , divided horizontally at its middle part , by a fold of strong 340 ribbon , and of such dimensions as just to contain the animal .
The bat was placed upon the ribbon , and enclosed by fixing the lid in its place .
Being ' lethargic , it remained in undisturbed quiet .
A thermometer , with a cylindrical bulb , was now passed through an orifice made in the box on a level with the ribbon , under the epigastrium of the animal , and left in this situation .
It was only now necessary to make daily observations and comparisons between this thermometer and another placed in the adjacent atmospheric air .
The layer of silk , and the portion of air underneath , protected the animal from the immediate influence of the temperature of the table , on which the box was placed .
The following Table gives the result of observations made during many days , in very varying temperatures .
Date .
January 67 11 P.M ... 8 P.M. .
8 .
9 11 P.M. .
10 10A.M. .
12 midnight 11 10 P.M ... 12 11 P.M. 13 11 P.M. .
14 1l A.M. .
11 P.M. .
15 2 P.M. .
11 P.M. .
16 11 P.M. .
17 11 P.M. .
18 11 A.M. .
19 10 P.M. .
20 11 P.M. .
21 11 P.M. .
22 11 P.M. .
MDCCCXXXII .
Temperature the Atmosph o. .
40 .
43 41 47 46 .
47 45 45 37 .
37 .
40 37 35 37 42 40 .
36 39 40.44 e of ere .
Temperature of the Animal .
e ... .
c 400 ... e. 43 ... 41~ ... .
46 ... .
46 ... .
47 ... .45 ... .
45 * ... .
37 } .
e ... 37 v ... .
40 Date .
January 23 10 A.M. -11 P.M. .
24 11 P.M. 25 10 P.M. 26 10 P.M. .
27 10 P.M. 28 11 A.M. .
11 P.M. 29 11 A.M. -11 P.M. .
30 11 P.M. 31 11 P.M. Temperature of the Atmosphere .
o. .
402 .
*. .
42 ... 341 .
*. .
37. .
* 43..* .
42 * .
392 .
Temperature of the Animal .
42 ... 401 .
* .
42 *. .
41 *37 * .
34 ' 42 ?
v* 37 * e. 42 * .
* 43 x. .
42 * " In the winter , the atmosphere at 44 ?
, the heat of a torpid hedgehog at the pelvis was 45 ?
, and at the diaphragm 48 ? .
The atmosphere 26 ?
, the heat of a torpid hedgehog , in the cavity of the abdomen , was reduced so low as 30 ? .
" The same hedgehog was exposed to the cold atmosphere of 26 ?
for two days , and the heat of the rectum was found to be 930 ; the wound in the abdomen being so small that it would not admit the thermometer* .
" A comparative experiment was made with a puppy , the atmosphere at 50 ?
; the heat in the pelvis , as also at the diaphragm , was 102 ? .
C " In summer , the atmosphere at 78 ?
, the heat of the hedgehog , in an active state in the cavity of the abdomen , towards the pelvis , was 950 ; at the diaphragm , 97 ?
0 .
" There is an error in the admirable work of M. EDWARDS , in relation to the present subject , which it is important to point out .
M. EDWARDS first ascertained the interesting fact , that the very young of those species of animals which are born blind , lose their temperature if removed from the contact of their parent ; and justly concludes that they have not sufficient power of evolving heat , to maintain their natural temperature when so exposed .
M. EDWARDS then subjected hybernating animals to the action of cold , and observing that their temperature also fell , he concludes that they , like the very young animal , have not the faculty of maintaining their temperature under ordinary circumstances d. It is remarkable that this acute physiologist did not perceive the error in this reasoning .
In no instance does the young animal maintain its warmth , when exposed alone to the influence of an atmosphere of moderate temperature .
Can this be said of the hybernating animal ?
Certainly not .
In ordinary temperatures , the hybernating animal maintains its activity , and with its activity , its temperature .
The loss of temperature in this kind of animal is an induced condition , occasioned by sleep .
Nothing , therefore , can be more incorrect than the following conclusion : " Au mois d'Avril 1819 , l'air 6tant a 160 , iine chauve-souris adulte , de 1'espece nomm6e oreillard , avait un ternmprature de 34 ? .
Elle 6tait recemment prise et en bon 6tat .
Je la plaqai dans un vase de terre que je refroidis en l'entourant de glace pilee et d'un peu de sel .
L'air y etait a 1 ? .
Un couvercle 6tait place de maniere a 6tablir un libre communication avec l'air exterieur .
Apres y avoir laiss6 la chauve-souris pendant un heure , sa temp6rature 6tait r6duite h 14 ? .
Elle s'6tait done refroid6e de 20 ?
dans un si court espace de temps , sous la seule influence d'une temp6rature qui n'etait pas au-dessous de z6ro .
Des cochons d'Inde , des oiseaux adultes , places dans les memes circonstances , no se sont refroidis que de deux ou trois degr6s au plus , quoiqu'on ait continu6 rinfluence du froid pour compenser les differences de volume .
Nous voyons par la que les chauves-souris produisent habituellement moins de chaleur que ces animaux A sang chaud , et que c'est principalement b cette cause qu'il faut attribuer l'abaissement de leur temp6rature pendant la saison froide .
En comparant cette exp6rience sir la chauve-souris adulte avec celles que nous avons faites sir les jeunes animaux a sang chaud , on y apergoit un rapport remarquable ; ils no produisent pas assez de chaleur pour soutenir un temp6rature elev6e , lorsque lair est a un degre voisin de z6ro .
Mais il ya cette difference , que c'est un 6tat passager chez les jeunes animaux a sang chaud , et qu'il est permanent chez les chauves-souris .
" C I1 est 6vident que les autres mammifSres hibernans doivent participer plus ou moins de cette maniere d'etre .
Les faits que j'ai expos6s suffisent pour nous fair consid6rer ce group d'animaux sous le point de vue suivant ; qu'au printemps et en Wt6 , dans leur 6tat d'activitO et de veille , lorsque leur temperature est assez 6lev6e pour no pas diff6rer essentiellement de celle qui caract6rise les animaux a sang chaud , ils n'ont pas la facult6 de produire autant de chaleur 9 .
" There is a point unnoticed in M. EDWARDS'S experiment .
It is the condition of the bat in regard to activity or lethargy under the exposure to cold ; and upon this the whole phenomena depend .
The differences between the young animal benumbed , and the hybernating animal lethargic , from cold , are both great and numerous .
I purpose to point them out particularly on a future occasion .
4 .
It is in strict accordance with these facts , that the lethargic animal is enabled to bear the total abstraction of atmospheric air or oxygen gas , for a considerable period of time .
SPALLANZANI placed a marmot in carbonic acid gas , and makes the follow* Des Agens Physiques , p. 154 .
344 ing report of the experiment in a letter to SENEBIER : C Vous vous ressouviendrez de ma marmotte qui fut si fortement lethargique dans l'hiver severe de 1795 ; je la tins alors pendant quatre heures dans le gaz acide carbonique , le thermomrtre marquant -12 ?
, elle continua de vivre dans ce gaz qui est Ie pltus mortel de tous , comme je vous le disais : au moins un rat et un oiseau que j'y placai avec elle y p6rirent h l'instant meme .
I1 parait done que sa respiration fut suspendue pendant tout ce tems-la .
Je soumis h la meme exp6rience des chauve-souris semblablement 16thargiques , et le resultat fut le meme* .
" A bat which was lethargic in an atmosphere of 36 ?
was immersed in water of 41 ? .
It moved about a little , and expelled bubbles of air from its lungs .
It was kept in the water during sixteen minutes , and then removed .
It appeared to be uninjured by the experiment .
A hedgehog which had been so lethargic in an atmosphere of 40 ?
as not to awake for food during several days , was immersed in water of 42 ? .
It moved about and expelled air from its lungs .
It was retained under the water during 22minutes .
It was then removed .
It appeared uninjured .
It seems probable that the motions observed in these animals were excited through the medium of the cutaneous nerves .
The power of supporting the abstraction of oxygen gas , or atmospheric air , belongs solely to the hybernating state , and is no property of the hybernating animal in its state of activity .
After having found that the dormant bat , in summer , supported immersion in water , during eleven minutes , uninjured , I was anxious to know whether the active hedgehog possessed the same power .
I immersed one of these animals in water .
It expired in three minutes , the period in which immersion proves fatal to the other mammalia .
Sir ANTHONY CARLISLE has , therefore , committed an error , somewhat similar to that of M. EDWARDS , when he asserts that " animals of the class Mammalia , which hybernate and become torpid in winter , have at all times a power of subsisting under a confined respiration , which would destroy other animals not having this peculiar habit f. " The power of bearing a suspended respiration is an induced state .
It depends upon sleep or lethargy themselves , and their effect in im* M6moires sir la Respiration , par LAZAIE SPALLANZANI , traduits en Frangais , d'apres son manuacrit inedit ; par JEAN SENEBIER : p. 75 .
t Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 17 .
345 pairing or suspending respiration ; and upon the peculiar power of the left side of the heart , of becoming veno-contractile under these circumstances .
2 .
Of the Irritability .
The single fact of a power of sustaining the privation of air , without loss of life , leads alone to the inference that the irritability is greatly augmented in the state of hybernation .
This inference flows from the law so fully stated in my former paper , and the fact is one of its most remarkable illustrations and confirmations .
It might have been inferred from these premises , that the beat of the heart would continue longer after decapitation in the state of hybernation , than in the state of activity in the same animal ; an inference at once most singular and correct .
This view receives the fullest confirmation from the following remarkable experiment : On March the 9th , soon after midnight , I took a hedgehog which had been in a state of uninterrupted lethargy during 150 hours , and divided the spinal marrow just below the occiput ; I then removed the brain and destroyed the whole spinal marrow as gently as possible .
The action of the heart continued vigorous during four hours , when , seeing no prospect of a termination to the experiment , I resolved to envelope the animal in a wet cloth , and leave it until early in the morning .
At 7 o'clock A.M. the beat of both sides of the heart still continued .
They still continued to move at 10 A.M. , each auricle and each ventricle contracting quite distinctly .
At half after 11 A.M. all were equally motionless ; yet all equally contracted on being stimulated by the point of a penknife .
At noon the two ventricles were alike unmoved on being irritated as before ; but both auricles contracted .
Both auricles and ventricles were shortly afterwards inirritable .
This experiment is the most extraordinary of those which have been performed upon the mammalia .
It proves several interesting and important points : 1 .
That the irritability of the heart is augmented in continued lethargy in an extraordinary degree .
2 .
That the irritability of the left side of the heart is then little , if at all , less irritable than the right , -that it is , in fact , veno-contractile .
3 .
That , in this condition of the animal system , the action 346 of the heart continues for a considerable period independently of the brain and spinal marrow .
On April the 20th , at six o'clock in the evening , the temperature of the atmosphere being 53 ?
, a comparative experiment was made upon a hedgehog in its state of activity : the spinal marrow was simply divided at the occiput ; the beat of the right ventricle continued upwards of two hours , that of the left ventricle ceased almost immediately ; the left auricle ceased to beat in less than a quarter of an hour ; the right auricle also ceased to beat long before the right ventricle .
In further proof of the same fact , I may here adduce a remarkable paragraph from the paper of MANGILI in the Annals du Mnuseuam : J'observai h peu pres les mnmes choses dans un autre marmotte en l6thargie , que je decapitai le 22 de Mars 1807 .
Mais en ouvrant celle-ci , j'avois deux objets : le premier , d'examiner l'6tat des visceres les plus importans , comme le coeur , les poumons et le cerveau .
Le second etoit de voir comment procdent les ph6nomenes de l'irritabilite musculaire ; parce qu'ayant entendu dire a un celebre naturaliste , que l'engourdissement avoit pour cause lalt6ration ou la suspension de cette irritabilit6 , il m'importoit de savoir si cette assertion 6toit vraie .
Dans la chambre oti se trouvoit la marmotte , le thermometre etoit a6 degr6s et demi : l'ayant introduit dans le bas ventre , il monta d'un degre , c'est-a-dire a7 degr6s et demi .
" " Je trouvai les poumons dans leur etat naturel .
Le coeur continua a battre pendant plus de trois heures .
Les pulsations , d'abord vives et frequentes , s'affoiblirent et se ralentirent peu-a-peu .
J'en avois compt6 de seize a dixhuit par minute au commencement de la premiere heure ; h la fin de la troisieme je n'en comptois plus que trois dans le mmee temps .
Les veins du cerveau me parurent gonfl6es de sang .
La tete unie au cou ayant 6te separ6e du tronc , je la mis dans un vase avec de l'esprit-de-vin , et j'y remarquai , meme apres un demi-heure , des mouvemens assez sensibles .
Ce fait prouve , ainsi que plusieurs autres dont je parlerai bientot , que si dans l'6tat de lethargy conservatrice la vie est beaucoup moins energique , le principe vital r6pandu dans les diverses parties , a beaucoup plus de tenacit6 , et tarde bien plus a s'6teindre .
" * Tome x. p. 453-456 .
347 " Je separai du corps de ranimal plusieurs morceaux des muscles qui ob6issent a la volont6 , et je vis avec etonnement que , trois heures apr6s la mort , ils se contractoient fortement chaque fois que je les soumettois h l'action galvanique .
Ces mouvemens convulsifs no se ralentirent qu'au bout de quatre heures .
" I suit de lI que les marmottes tuWes pendant qu'elles sont en 1thargie ; pr &amp; sentent , relativement a l'irritabilit6 , a peu pres les meines phenombnes qu'on remarque dans plusieurs aniinaux a sang froid .
" Pour savoir ensuite si les ph6nomSnes d'irritabilit6 etoient les memes dans I'6tat de veille et dans celui de lethargy , le 25 de Juin , j'ai fait p6rir , pr6cisement de la mneme maniere , un second marmotte qui 6toit 6veillee depuis deux mois , et qui faisoit de frequentes courses dans le jardin .
Mon thermometre narquoit ce jour-la 18 degr6s : l'ayant introduit dans le ventre de la marmotte au moment oh je venois de la decapiter , il s'6leva a 29 degr6s .
" Ayant mis le cceur h decouvert , comme je l'avois fait dans mon experience du mois de Mars , je comptai d'abord vingt-sept ou vingt-huit pulsations par minute .
Ce nombre n'6toit plus que de douze au bout d'un quart d'heure , et de huit , au bout de demi-heure : dans le dix minutes suivantes , il n'y eut plus que quatre pulsations tres-foibles par minute , et else cess6rent totalement dans les dix dernibres minutes , c'est-a-dire cinquante minutes apres la mort de l'animal ; tandis que le cceur de la marmotte tu6e dans l'6tat de l6thargie , donnoit encore quatre legSres pulsations par minute , trois heures apres que la tete avoit 6t6 s6par6e du corps .
Cette grande difference prouve que le principe de l'irritabilit s'accumule pendant la ldthargie conservatrice .
" Les chairs musculaires me semblirent plus pales que celles de la marmotte en l6thargie : else 6toient d'abord tr6s sensibles h l'action galvanique ; mais ses signs d'irritabilit6 s'affoiblirent et disparurent bien plus rapidement .
En effet , les chairs musculaires de cette marmotte etoient peu sensibles au bout de deux heures , tandis que dans la marmotte tu6e en hiver else se contractoient fortement au bout de trois heures , et que lirritabilite no s'affoiblit notablement que quatre heures aprSs la mort .
" Les chairs des muscles intercostaux et abdominaux conservSrent leur sensibilit6 an stimulus 6lectrique quelques minutes de plus que celles des membres ; d'oit ron peut conclure que le principe de l'irritabilite se conserve d'avantage dans certaines parties du meme animal .
Mais ce qui est prouv6 jusqu'a l'6vidence , c'est que ce principe a bien plus de tenacit6 dans les chairs de l'animal tu6 pendant l'etat de lethargy , que dans celles de l'animal tu6 pendant l'etat de veille .
" This author does not appear to have had any apprehension of the extreme importance of this extraordinary change in the irritability , but merely states it as a fact .
Its due value can only be known by observing the dependence of the functions of life on that law of the inverse condition of the respiration and of the irritability , of which so much has already been said .
In the hybernating animal the respiration is nearly suspended ; had not the irritability become proportionately augmented , the actions of life must have ceased !
3 .
Of the Sensibility .
All the writers upon the subject of hybernation agree in stating .
that the sensibility is greatly impaired ; and it is impossible to commit a greater mistake .
The slightest touch applied to one of the spines of the hedgehog immediately rouses it to draw that deep inspiration of which I have spoken .
The merest shake induces a few respirations in the bat .
The least disturbance , in fact , is felt , as is obvious from its effect in inducing motion in the animal .
It is from the misconception on this point that the error has arisen , that the respiration is not absolutely suspended in hybernation .
This function has been so readily excited , through the medium of an unimpaired sensibility , that the event has been considered as appertaining to the state of hybernation .
In fact , the sensibility is in nearly the same condition in hybernation as in ordinary sleep .
It must appear extraordinary that with an unimpaired sensibility there can co-exist a suspended respiration .
Why is not this suspension of respiration painful in the hybernating , as in other animals ?
And why is not the animal roused , by this pain , from its slumbers , if its sensibility be only slightly impaired ?
But we should first ask , what are the precise seat and source of that pain which is felt during the suspension of respiration ?
These are , I think , demonstrably , the heart , and an impeded circulation through this organ .
If , there fore , the circulation through the heart be not obstructed , there will be no painful sensation .
Now it is precisely the peculiar property of hybernation , that the circulation through the heart is not interrupted , although the respiration be suspended .
This topic is reserved , however , for a subsequent part of this paper .
It is simply stated in this place as a fact , to show that the painful feelings supposed to arise from suspended respiration in hybernation , do not exist ; and that the difficulty of supposing a suspended state of the respiration with an unimpaired sensibility , is , in this manner , entirely removed .
The sensorial functions , on the other hand , are nearly suspended .
This is proved by the suspension of respiration , which is immediately renewed , for a time , on exciting the animal .
It is further proved by the fact , that although the animal coils itself up when touched , it immediately relaxes into the former position whereas when it is awake , the impression of an external object induces a state of contraction and immobility which is continued for some time , -probably as long as the sense of fear continues .
When the hedgehog , coiled up in its state of activity , is throw into water , it it immediately relaxes itself , from fear , and betakes itself to swimming ; in the state of lethargy , on the other hand , no fear appears to be excited under such circumstances , and the animal would probably remain still and quiet for a very considerable period , if its sensibility were not acted upon by the contact of the hwater .
4 .
Of the Muscular Motility .
The motility of the muscles , in true hybernation , is , like the sensibility , unimpaired .
Those physiologists who have asserted the contrary , have , as will be shown shortly , mnistaken the phenomena of torpor from cold , for those of true hybernation .
If the hedgehog in a state of the most perfect lethargy , uncomplicated with torpor , be touched , its respiration is resumed , and it coils itself up more forcibly than before .
The dormouse , in similar circumstances , unfolds itself ; and the bat moves variously .
Not the slightest stiffness is observed .
The hledgehog , when roused , walks about , and does not stagger as has been asserted .
The bat speedily takes to the wing , and flies about with great activity , although exhaustion and death may subsequently result from the experiment .
The phenomena are similar to those of awaking from natural sleep .
Insensibility , impaired motility , stiffness , lamrneness , &amp;c. belong to torpor , and not to true hybernation .
5 .
Of the Circulation .
The wing of the bat affords an admirable opportunity of observing the condition of the circulation during hybernation .
But it requires peculiar manage- .
meant .
If the animal be taken from its cage , and the wing extended under the microscope , it is roused by the operation , and its respiratory and other movements are so excited , that all accurate observation of the condition of the circulation in the minute vessels is completely frustrated .
Still greater caution is required in this case , than even in the observation of the respiration and temperature .
After some fruitless trials , I at length succeeded perfectly in obtaining a view of the minute circulation undisturbed .
Having placed the animal in its state of hybernation , in a little box of mahogany , I gently drew out its wing through a crevice made in the side of the box ; I fixed the tip of the extended wing between portions of cork ; I then attached the box and the cork to a piece of plate-glass ; and , lastly , I left the animal in this situation , in a cold atmosphere , to resume its lethargy .
I could now quietly convey the animal ready prepared , and place it in the field of the microscope without disturbing its slumbers , and observe the condition of the circulation .
In this manner I have ascertained , that , although the respiration be suspended , the circulation continues uninterruptedly .
It is slow in the minute arteries and veins ; the beat of the heart is regular , and generally about twenty-eight times in the minute .
We might be disposed to view the condition of the circulation in the state of hybernation as being reptile , or analogous to that of the batrachian tribes .
But when we reflect that the respiration is nearly , if not totally , suspended , and that the blood is venous* , we must view the condition of the circulation as in a lower condition still , and , as it were , sub-reptile .
It may , indeed , be rather compared to that state of the circulation which is observed in the frog from which the brain and spinal marrow have been removed by minute portions at distant intervals@ .
In fact , in the midst of a suspended respiration , and an impaired condition of some other functions , one vital property is augmented .
This is the irritability , and especially the irritability of the left side of the heart .
The left side of the heart , which is , in the hybernating animal , in its state of activity , as in all the other mammalia , only arterio-contractile , becomes veno-contractile .
This phenomenon is one of the most remarkable presented to me in the whole animal kingdom .
It forms the single exception to the most general rule , amongst aniinals which possess a double heart .
It accounts for the possibility of immersion in water or a noxious gas , without drowning or asphyxia ; and it accounts for the possibility of a suspended respiration , without the feeling of oppression or pain , although sensation be unimpaired .
It is , in a word , this peculiar phenomenon , which , conjoined with the peculiar effect of sleep in inducing diminishled respiration in hybernating animals , constitutes the susceptibility and capability of taking on the hybernating state .
On the other hand , as the rapid circulation of a highly arterialized blood in the brain and spinal marrow of birds probably conduces to their activity , the slow circulation of a venous blood , doubtless contributes to the lethargy of the hybernating animal .
6 .
Of the Digestion .
There is much difference in the powers of digestion , and in the fact of omitting to take food , in the hybernation of different animals .
The bat , being insectivorous , would awake in vain ; no food could be found : the hedgehog might obtain snails or worms , if the ground were not very hard from frost : the dormouse would find less difficulty in meeting with grain and fruits .
We accordingly observe a remarkable difference in the habits of awaking from their lethargy or hybernation , in these different animals .
I have observed no disposition to awake at all in the bat , except from external warmth or excitement .
If the temperature be about 40 ?
or 45 ?
, the hedgehog , on the other hand , awakes , after various intervals of two , three , or * Essay on the Circulation , pp. 136-141 .
352 four days passed in lethargy , to take food ; and again returns to its state of hybernation .
The dormouse , under similar circumstances , awakes daily .
Proportionate to the disposition to awake and take food , is the state of the functions of the stomach , bowels and kidneys .
The dormouse and the hedgehog pass the faeces and urine in abundance during their intervals of activity .
The bat is scarcely observed to have any excretions during its continued lethargy .
In the dormouse and the hedgehog , the sense of hunger appears to rouse the animal from its hybernation , whilst the food taken conduces to a return of the state of lethargy .
It has already been observed , that there are alternations between activity and lethargy in this animal , with the taking of food , in temperatures about 40 ?
or 45 ? .
Nevertheless , abstinence doubtless conduces to hybernation , by rendering the system more susceptible of the influence of cold , in inducing sleep and the loss of temperature .
The hedgehog , which awakes from its hybernation , and does not eat , returns to its lethargy sooner than the one which is allowed food .
III .
Of Torpor from Cold .
It is highly important , and essential to the present investigation , to distinguish that kind of torpor which may be produced by cold in any animal , from true hybernation , which is a property peculiar to a few species .
The former is attended by a benumbed state of the sentient nerves , and a stiffened condition of the muscles ; it is the direct and immediate effect of cold , and even in the hybernating animal is of an injurious and fatal tendency ; in the latter , the sensibility and motility are unimpaired , the phenomena are produced through the medium of sleep ; and the effect and object are the preservation of life .
Striking as these differences are , it is certain that the distinction has not always been made by former observers .
In all the experiments which have been made , with artificial temperatures especially , it is obvious that this distinction has been neglected .
True hybernation is induced by temperatures only moderately low .
All hybernating animals avoid exposure to extreme cold .
They seek some secure retreat , make themselves nests or burrows , or congregate in clusters , and , if 353 the season prove unusually severe , or if their retreat be not well chosen and they be exposed in consequence to excessive cold , many become benumbed , stiffen , and die .
In our experiments upon hybernation we should imitate nature 's operations .
Would any one imagine that the following detail contained the account of an experiment upon this subject ?
" Le 31 Janvier , " says M. SAISSY , " C trois heures du soir , la temp6rature atmosph6rique 6tant A 10 ?
25 au-dessous de z6ro , celle d'un h6risson engourdi profondement A 3 ?
'50 au dessus , j'enfermai , ce quadrupMde dans un bocal de verre entour6 de tout part d'une mixtion de glace et de muriate de soude .
L'exc6s du froid le r6veilla d'abord , mais trois heures ont suffi pour le replonger dans un profonde torpeur .
" c J'avais plac6 ranimal de maniSre que je pouvais r6p6ter , autant que je le jugeais n6cessaire , les experiences thermom6triques .
D ; s que sa temp6rature eut baiss6 jusqu'A zero , ( ce no fut qu'i 2 heures du matin ) je le retirai du bocal et le placai dans un temperature de 12 ?
et plus au dessus de la glace ; mais ranimal mtait mort* .
, " To induce true hybernation , it is quite necessary to avoid extreme cold ; otherwise we produce the benumbed and stiffened condition to which the term torpor or torpidity may be appropriated .
I have even observed that methods which secure moderation in temperature , lead to hybernation : hedgehogs supplied with hay or straw ; and dormice , supplied with cotton wool , make themselves nests and become lethargic ; when others , to which these materials are denied , and which are consequently more exposed to the cold , remain in a state of activity .
In these cases , warmth or moderated cold actually concur to produce hybernation+ .
When we read of insensibility , of a stiffened state of the muscles , and of a cessation of the circulation , as obtaining in hybernation , we may be certain that a state of torpor has been mistaken for that condition .
The actually hybernating animal exposed to continued severe cold , is , as M. SAISSY correctly observes , first roused from this state of ease and preservation , into a painful activity , and then plunged into a fatal torpor .
This subject will come to be considered in a subsequent part of this inquiry , in which I purpose to trace the effects of cold in changing the relative quantity of respiration and degree of the irritability in animals of different ages which do not hybernate ; in the meantime , the accurate distinction between mere torpor , which may occur in any animal , and which is a destructive state , from true hybernation , which is preservative , and the peculiarity of certain animals , will enable us to correct many inaccuracies into which LEGALLOIS* , M. EDWARDS+ , and other physiologists have fallen .
IV .
Of Reviviscence .
Not the least interesting of the phenomena connected with hybernation , are those of reviviscence .
Hybernation induces a state of irritability of the Deft side of the heart , which , with high respiration and an arterialized blood , would be incompatible with life .
Respiration suddenly restored , and permanently excited , is , therefore , as destructive as its privation in other circumstances .
All those bats which were sent to me from distant parts of the country died .
The continued excitement from the motion of the coach , keeping theri in a state of respiration , the animal perished .
One bat had , on its arrival , been roused so as to fly about .
Being left quiet , it relapsed into a state of hybernation .
The excitement being again repeated the next day , it again flew about the room ; on the succeeding day it was found dead .
It is in accordance with this law , that we observe hybernating animals adopting various measures to secure themselves from frequent sources of disturbance and excitement .
They choose sheltered situations , as caverns , burrows , &amp;c. , secure from the rapid changes and the inclemencies of the weatheri and season .
Many form themselves nests ; others congregate together .
The hedgehog and the dormouse roll themselves up into a ball .
The common bat suspends itself by the claws of its hinder feet , with its head dependent , generally in clusters ; the horseshoe bat , ( ferrum equinum , ) spreads its wings so as to embrace and protect its fellows .
All these circumstances are obviously designed to prevent disturbed hybernation .
In the depth of caverns , and other situations sheltered from changes of temperature in the atmosphere , the calls of hunger are probably the principal cause of reviviscence in the spring .
The other causes of reviviscence are the return of warmth and external excitements : it is interesting to observe and trace the gradual return of respiration in the former case , and of the temperature of the animal in the latter .
If the hybernating hedgehog be touched even very gently , it draws a deep breath , and then continues to breathe for a short time .
If this excitement be repeated , the animal is permanently roused , and its temperature raised .
If the temperature of the atmosphere be augmented , the respiration is gradually excited , and the animal is gradually restored to its state of activity .
If a hybernating animal be excited in a very cold atmosphere , its temperature rises variously , and then falls .
A bat was perfectly lethargic in a temperature of 36 ? .
A fine thermometer , with a cylindrical bulb , was introduced into its stomach ; it rose to 39 ? .
One hour afterwards , the animal not being further disturbed , the respiration was rapid , and the temperature in the stomach 95 ? .
Shortly afterwards the temperature was 90 ? .
The minute circulation was pretty good , and pulsatory in the arteries , the heart beating from twenty-eight to thirty-six times in the minute .
In another bat , in an atmosphere of the temperature of 36 ?
, the thermometer in the stomach rose to 39 ? .
The animal being continually excited , the tenperature rose to 65 ?
, but speedily fell to 60 ? .
The animal excited and revived in this manner , is in a state of exhaustion and inanition .
It is incapable of maintaining its temperature if exposed to cold , and will die unless it repass into the state of hybernation .
It may be compared to the case of the mouse deprived of food in the following experiment of Mr. HUNTER .
CA mouse was put into a cold atmosphere of 13 ?
for 356 an hour , and then the thermometer was introduced as before ; but the animal had lost heat , for the quicksilver at the diaphragm was carried only to 83 ?
, in the pelvis to 780 .
" In order to determine whether an animal that is awakened has the same powers , with respect to preserving heat and cold , as one that is vigorous and strong , I weakened a mouse by fasting , and then introduced the bulb of the thermometer into its belly ; the bulb being at the diaphragm , the quicksilver rose to 97 ?
; in the pelvis to 95 ?
, being two degrees colder than the strong mouse : the mouse being put into an atmosphere as cold as the other , and the thermometer again introduced , the quicksilver stood at 790 at the diaphragm , and at 74 ?
in the pelvis .
c " In this experiment , the heat at the diaphragm was diminished 18 ?
, in the pelvis 21 ? .
c " This greater diminution of heat in the second than in the first , we may suppose proportional to the decreased power of the animal , arising from want of food * .
" But extreme cold alone , by a painful effect induced on the sentient nerves , rouses the hybernating animal from its lethargy , as has been remarked already , and is illustrated by the following experiments of HUNTER .
Having brought a healthy dormouse , which had been asleep from he coldness of thef atmosphere , into a room in which there was a fire , ( the atmosphere at 64 ?
, ) I introduced the hermometer into its belly , nearly at the middle , between the thorax and pubis , and the quicksilver rose to 740 or 750 ; turning the bulb towards the diaphragm , it rose to 80 ?
; and when I applied it to the liver , it rose to 81 0 .
c " The mouse being placed in an atmosphere at 20 ?
, and left there half an hour , when taken out was very lively , even much more so than when put in .
Introducing the thermometer into the lower part of the belly , the quicksilver rose to 91 ?
; and upon turning it up to the liver , to 930 ? .
c " The animal being replaced in the cold atmosphere at 30 ?
, for an hour , the thermometer was again introduced into the belly ; .
at the liver it rose to 93 ?
; in the pelvis to 92 ?
; the mouse continuing very lively .
" It was again put back into an atmosphere cooled to 190 , and left there an hour ; the thermometer at the diaphragm was 87 ?
; in the pelvis 83 ?
; but the animal was now less lively .
" Having been put into its cage , the thermometer being placed at the diaphragm , in two hours afterwards , was at 93 ?
* .
" In these experiments the animals appear to have been roused partly by the state of the wound in the abdomen , but chiefly by the extreme cold .
They can scarcely , however , be considered as experiments upon hybernation , however interesting they may be in reference to reviviscence from that state .
The fact of the fatal influence of excited respiration during the augmented irritability of hybernation , contrasted with the similar fatal effect of suspended respiration , during the diminished irritability of the state of activity , will illustrate many of the causes , kinds , and plhenomena of death .
Do not these resolve themselves , in fact , into irritability insufficiently or excessively excited ?
Recapitulation .
The object of this paper has been to treat of the singular phenomena of hybernation , and especially to point out the remarkable application of the law stated in my former paper , to the active and lethargic states of the hybernating animal .
1 .
The natural sleep of the hybernating animal differs greatly , yet only in degree , from the sleep of any other animal .
2 .
This sleep passes insensibly into the state of true hybernation , which is more profound , as the blood loses its arterial character ; for 3 .
In hybernation , the respiration and the evolution of heat are nearly suspended .
4 .
The irritability is , at the same time , singularly augmented ; and the animal bears proportionately the privation of air .
5 .
The nervous sensibility and the muscular motility are unimpaired .
6 .
There is the singular phenomenon of this unimpaired sensibility , and the capability of bearing the privation of air without pain ; a fact which receives an interesting and perfect explanation from the additional fact of the augmented irritability or veno-contractility of the left side of the heart .
There is an important distinction between true hybernation and torpor from cold , not attended to by physiologists .
8 .
Severe cold , like all other causes of pain , rouses the hybernating animal from its lethargy ; and , if continued , induces the state of torpor .
In conclusion , one of the most general effects of sleep , is to impair the respiration , and with that function , the evolution of animal temperature .
The impaired state of the respiration , induces a less arterial condition of the blood , which then becomes unfit for stimulating the heart ; accumulation of the blood takes place in the pulmonary veins and left auricle ; a sense of oppression is induced , and the animal is either roused to draw a deep sigh , or awakes altogether .
Such are the phenomena in animals in which the heart has not the faculty of taking on an augmented state of irritability , with this lessened degree of stimulus .
But in those animals which do possess this faculty , a property which constitutes the power of hybernation , the heart continues the circulation of the blood , more slowly indeed , but not less perfectly , although its arterial character be diminished and its stimulant property impaired .
No repletion of the pulimonary veins and of the left auricle , no sense of oppression is induced , and the animal is not roused ; the respiration continues low , the temperature falls , and the animal can bear , for a short period , the abstraction of atmospheric air .
All the phenomena of hybernation originate , then , in the susceptibility of augmented irritability .
The state of sleep , which may be viewed as the first stage of hybernation , induces an impaired degree of respiration .
This would soon be attended with pain , if the irritability of the heart were not at the same time augmented , so as to carry on the circulation of a less arterial blood , and the animal would draw a deep sigh-would augment its respiration , or awake .
Occasional sighs are , indeed , observed in the sleep of all animals , except the hybernating .
In these , the circulation goes on uninterruptedly , with a diminished respiration , by the means of an augmented irritability .
There is no stagnation of the blood at the heart ; consequently , no uneasiness ; and the animal becomes more and more lethargic , as the circulation of a venous blood is more complete .
This lethargy is eventually interrupted by circumstances which break ordinary sleep , as external stimuli , or the calls ofappetite .
Moderate cold disposes to sleep , to lethargy .
But severer cold induces a3 A2 359 different condition of the system , -that of torpor .
Sleep is the medium between such moderate cold and the phenomena of hybernation ; torpor is the immediate effect of the severer degrees of cold .
This investigation naturally leads to that of the comparative conditions of the respiration and of the irritability , in the pupa and perfect states of some species of the insect tribes .
There is much reason to suppose that these states are respectively similar to those of lethargy and activity in the hybernating animal .

