]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. On the A.bsobrte HUGH L. CALLENDAR , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , } ofessor of Physics at the College of Science and Technology , S. W. , and HERBERT Moss , B. Sc. , A.R. C.S. , Demonstrator of Physics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology , London , S. Received November 19 , 1910 , \mdash ; Read , 1911 .
CONTENTS .
Page 1 .
Introduction . . . . .
1 2 .
General description of the apparatus and method . . . . . . . .
3 3 .
Theory and notation . . . . .
7 4 .
Method of filling the apparatus . . . . . . . . .
10 5 .
Method of taking observations . . . . .
11 6 .
Method of reducing the observations . . . .
, 13 7 .
Summary of observations . . . . . . . . . . .
15 Series I. C. to C. . . . . .
16 Series II .
C. to C. . . . . . .
19 Confirmatory series . . . . .
20 Series III .
C. to C. . . . . . . .
21 8 .
Empincal formulae for the expansion of mercury . . . . .
22 9 .
Order of accuracy of the resuIts . . . . . . . . . .
24 10 .
Comparison with previous resuIts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 11 .
Corrected value of the boiling-point of sulphur . . . . . . . . . .
28 12 .
Explanation of the tables of expansion . . . . . . . . . . . .
29 1 .
Introduction .
THE determination of the expansion of mercury by the absolute or hydrostatic method of balancing two vertical columns maintained at different temperatures does not appear to have been seriously attempted since the time of ( ' Mem. de l'Acad .
Roy .
des Sci. de l'Institut de France , ' tome I. , Paris , 1847 ) .
His esults , though doubtless as perfect as the methods and apparatus ayailable in his time would permit , left a much greater margin of uncertainty than is admissible at the present time in many cases to which they have been applied .
The order of uncertainty may be illustrated by comparing the value of the fundamental coefficient of expansion ( the VOL. CCXI .
7.3.11 mean coefficient between and C. ) given by REGNAULT himself , with the values since deduced from his observations by WULLNER and by BROOCH .
They are as follows:\mdash ; REGNAULT WULLNER . . . . .
BROOCH . . . . .
The discrepancy amounts to 1 in 180 even at this temperature , and would be equivalent to an uncertainty of about 4 per cent. in the expansion of a glass bulb determined with mercury by the weight thermometer method .
The uncertainty of the mean coefficient is naturally greater at higher temperatures .
If , in place of the mean coefficient , we take the actual coefficient at any temperature , the various reductions of work are still more discordant , and the rate of variation of the coefficient with temperature , which is nearly as important as the value of the mean coefficient itself in certain physical problems , becomes so uncertain that the discrepancies often exceed the value of the correction sought .
It is only fair to REGNAULT to say that these discrepancies arise to some extent from the various assumptions made in reducing his results , and are not altogether inherent in the observations themselves .
The method of the weight thermometer permits an order of accuracy of about 1 in 20,000 in the determination of the weight of mercury expelled corresponding to the fundamental interval , but it necessarily leaves the absolute value of the fundamental coefficient uncertain , because it is obviously unfair to assume that the expansion of the containing bulb , however carefully annealed , is the same in all directions .
The recent determinations of the expansion of mercury by CHAPPUIS Travaux et Memoires du Bureau International , 1907 ) by the weight thermometer method , employin a cylindrical bulb of verre of which the linear coefficient of expansion had been previously determined , gave results agreeing very closely between C. and C. with WULLNER'S reduction of REGNAULT'S observations .
But as all the observations , with the exception of those at C. , were confined to the limits C. and C. , the resulting equation for the expansion of mercury could not be applied with any confidence at temperatures above O. , especially as the values deduced from it differ by nearly per cent. from REGNAULT'S at C. The agreement with WULLNmR'S reduction is possibly fortuitous , and the discrepancy from value of the fundamental coefficient might easily be explained by supposing that the expansion of the bulb employed by CHAPPUIS was about 2 per cent. less in the direction of its diameter than in the direction of its length , a supposition which is well within the limits of probability .
It will be evident from the above summary that , in order to obtain trustworthy results for the cubical expansion of a bulb between and C. , there was no alternative but to repeat REGNAIILT'S method on a larger scale with modern appliances , the whole apparatus being designed , as far ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF MERCURy .
as possible , to give the same order of accuracy in the absolute expansion that is obtainable in the relative expansion by the weight thermometer method .
2 .
Description of the Method .
The origin and progress of the present investigation has already been briefly sketched in two previous notes ( CALLENDAR , " " Note on the Boiling-Point of Sulphur ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 81 , p. 363 , and CALLENDAR and Moss , " " The Boiling-Point of Sulphur corrected by reference to New Observations on the Absolute Expansion of Mercury ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 83 , p. 106 , 1909 ) , and need not be repeated here .
The general arrangement of the apparatus will readily be gathered from fig. 1 , which shows a front and end elevation , and also a plan partly in section .
In place of the single pair of hot and cold columns , each , employed by NAULT , six pairs of hot and cold columns , each nearly 2 .
long , were connected in series , giving nearly eight times the expansion obtainable with REGNAULT'S apparatus .
The connections of the multiple manometer are indicated diagrammatically in fig. .
The hot and cold columns are marked and respectively , and occur alternately .
If the mercury when in equilibrium stands at in the gauge tube connected to the first cold column , and at in the gauge tube connected to the last hot column , the difference of level to be measured , represented by , will be six times that due to a pair of hot and cold columns .
In the actual apparatus the cross tube was doubled back , so that lay behind bc , and behind , and so on , giving the arrangement represented in fig. .
All the hot columns were placed together in one limb EH ( fig. 1 ) of a rectangle EFGH of iron tube , 5 cm .
in bore , filled with circulating oil , and lagged with asbestos .
All the cold columns were located in the corresponding limb Be of the similar rectangle ABCD .
The outer limbs of the rectangles were utilized for the electrical heating coils , and the ice cooling bath WXYZ respectively .
Centrifugal circulators continuously driven by an electric motor were provided for maintaining the oil in rapid circulation through the rectangles , so that the temperatures of the hot and cold columns were each nearly uniform .
This arrangement of electric heating contributed greatly to the efficiency of the apparatus , as it produced the least possible disturbance of the surrounding conditions , and permitted the most easy and accurate regulation of the temperature .
The mean temperatures of the hot and cold columns were observed by means of a pair of platinum thermometers and , contained in tubes similar in size to the tubes containing the mercury columns .
The lengths of the loops of platinum wire forming the bulbs of the thermometers were made as nearly as possible equal to the lengths of the columns , and were fixed at the same level in the tubes , so as to give the true mean temperature , in case there were any appreciable variation throughout the length of the column .
The free ends of the series of hot and cold columns were connected , as indicated in fig. 1 , by thick-walled rubber tubing to the glass tubes of the gauge , which is shown ' ' ' ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
on a larger scale in fig. 4 .
The glass tubes of the gauge were 15 cm .
in bore , and were fixed on either side of a standard invar metre of section , to which the difference of level was directly referred by means of a pair of levelled telescopes , fitted with micrometer eye-pieces , and turning about a long vertical axis .
The readings could be taken to cm .
The difference of level was about cm .
for a difference of temperature of C. , permitting an order of accuracy of 1 in 20,000 .
As indicated roughly in fig. , the length of the hot column was in general greater than the length of the cold column , owing to the expansion of the iron tube rectangles containing the circulating oil .
The expansion amounted to about Fig. .
Fig. 8 mm. for C. , and necessitated a flexible connection between the hot and cold columns at the upper ends between the points and .
The iron tube rectangles were firmly supported at the base , so that the lower cross tube was always very nearly horizontal .
We are here concerned with the linear expansion only of the containing tubes , which will not affect the accuracy of the absolute values of the expansion of mercury , provided that adequate means are adopted for measuring the actual lengths of the hot and cold columns at each observation .
The provision made by REGNAULT for this purpose was unsatisfactory , as he himself points out , especially in relation to his fourth series of observations , for which his apparatus was not originally designed .
The essential point is that the tubes containing the mercury should be of small bore , and should be maintained accurately horizontal at the points where they emerge from the oil bath , and where the temperature changes from hot to cold .
The method adopted for securing this result in the present investigation is shown in fig. 3 .
Steel tubes of 1 mm. bore were brazed with pure copper , using borax as a flux , into the upper and lower ends of the vertical steel tubes , mm. bore , containing mercury columns .
The small bore tubes were bent round through a right angle , and were silver-soldered through holes accurately drilled in a brass plate , which was damped against the vertical face of the joint in the tubes containing the circulating oil .
Fig. 3 .
The mercury tubes up to the point A would thus be maintained at the temperature of the circulating oil .
After traversing a distance of about 5 cm .
in the air , the small bore tubes passed through a brass block , being soldered into holes in the block drilled so as accurately to correspond with those in the plate A. The brass block was carried by a rigid bracket , and was cooled by a water circulation as indicated in fig. 3 .
The plate A was adjusted so that the length of tube , AB , where the temperature changed from hot to cold , should be accurately horizontal .
The same arrangement was adopted at each of the points , , fig. 1 , where the mercury tubes emerged from the circulating oil .
The vertical heights of the hot and cold columns were measured by the steel tapes fig. 1 , suspended from the upper brackets , and read by levelled telescopes .
The effective heights of the columns were taken to be the vertical distances between the centres of the small bore steel tubes , which could be measured to about mm. , giving an order of accuracy of 1 in 20,000 in this fundamental measurement .
The steel tapes were standardized by comparison with the standard invar scale , and were ected for temperature at each observation .
The gauge tubes , as shown in figs. 1 and 4 , were mounted on a separate board in front of the apparatus so as to be protected from vibration and screened from the radiation of the hot columns .
The temperature of the mercury in the gauge was estimated by means of four standardized mercury thermometers Fig 4 , immersed in mercury contained in tubes of the same bore as the gauge tubes , and placed at a distance apart equal to twice the distance separating the gauge tubes .
The difference of temperature between the gauge tubes ON THE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
was taken as half the mean difference of temperature between the thermometers in a horizontal direction .
A correction for this difference of temperature was applied to the columns of mercury in the gauge tubes below , fig. , i.e. , below the level of the top of the cold column .
This correction .
amounted to more than cm .
, and is included in the recorded values of given in the tables .
The mean temperature of the column representing the difference of level was estimated from the vertical and horizontal temperature gradients indicated by the thermometers , and is denoted by in the tables and equations .
The accuracy required in the observation of the gauge temperature was about fifty times less than in the temperatures of the hot and cold columns .
The platinum thermometers were annealed in place in the apparatus by heating the whole to C. shortly after its erection before filling with mercury .
This annealing reduced the resistance of each by 1 part in 3000 .
The apparatus was not heated afterwards beyond C. , and the thermometers showed no signs of further change .
Owing to their great length the thermometers could not be tested satisfactorily , except at and C. , and the value of the difference coefficient was assumed to be the same as that found for other thermometers constructed of the same wire .
The fundamental intervals of the thermometers were , for , and for ohms .
Readings were taken to mm. on the bridge wire , corresponding to C. , giving an order of accuracy of 1 in 50,000 on the fundamental interval .
The values of and recorded in the tables were deduced from the observed temperatures on the platinum scale the mula , , which may possibly be in error by C. ( or 1 in 10,000 ) at C. 3 .
Theory The following notation is adopted:\mdash ; is the effective height of the cold column at a temperature is the effective height of the hot column at a temperature is the effective height of the cross tubes at the air temperature is the observed difference of level in the gauge tubes at the temperature is corrected for and reduced to The error of this reduction will not exceed 1 in 20,000 of provided that the temperature of the gauge is known within C. , and that the temperature of the cross tubes does not differ by more than C. from the gauge .
The approximate value of the coefficient of expansion suffices within the same limits of accuracy provided that the difference of temperature does not exceed C. The temperature of the gauge may be taken as known within C. The cross tubes seldom differed in temperature from the gauge by so much as 1o C. , and the difference of temperature in the majority of the observations was less than C. The required correction to the value of was therefore extremely small , and introduced very little uncertainty in the reduction .
Considering the equilibrium of the columns , we have the hot column at a temperature , together with the difference of level in the gauge at a temperature , balanced by the cold column at a temperature , together with the cross tubes at a temperature .
The mean coefficient of expansion between and in terms of the volume at , which is the coefficient most directly given by the observations , is easily obtained by reducing the columns to a common temperature We thus obtain the equation , ( 1 ) which , with a few simple approximations in the small terms involving , reduces to , . . . . .
( 2 ) where denotes the corrected and reduced value of given above .
The expansion between and may further be expressed as a fraction of the volume at C. by multiplying by the factor .
The uncertainty of this reduction will not exceed 1 in 40,000 unless exceeds C. Thus , , . . . . .
( 3 ) where denotes the mean coefficient to in terms of the volume at C. The expansion between C. and in terms of which the results are generally tabulated , may readily be deduced by adding the expansion between C. and to that between and in terms of the volume at C. Thus , , . . . . .
( 4 ) but this involves a correction of quite a different order of magnitude , and requires the value to be accurately known , unless is very small .
The two last reductions may be included together in the formula , . . . . . . . .
( 5 ) but since the correction term may be nearly as large as , it is desirable to keep this correction separate from the others , and to make a special series of observations to determine it .
This important point is somewhat obscured in REGNAULT'S formula , and has led to considerable uncertainty in the reduction of his results .
The of his ON TH ABSOLUTE XPANSION OF CURY .
observations were taken with the cold column at a temperature in the neighbourhood of C. It makes a difference of more than 1 in 500 in the fundamental coefficient according as we assume REGNAULT'S value , or WULLNER'S value for the mean coefficient between C. and C. in reducing the observations .
The uncertainty is greater at lower temperatures .
REGNAULT states that he solved his formula by a method of successive approximation , but the approximation would evidently be unsatisfactory at low temperatures , and his calculations cannot be reproduced so as to make his results fit with his observations .
REGNAULT himself was conscious of this difficulty , and endeavoured to avoid it by cooling the cold column ith melting ice , but he appears to have abandoned this method on account of difficulties of manipulation .
The apparatus employed in the present investigation was better suited for the purpose than REGNAULT'S , and a special series of observations was successfully taken with the cold column in ice , and at C. , for the accurate determination of the coefficient at low temperatures .
But the majority of the observations were taken with the cold column at the atmospheric temperature , because this procedure , besides greatly facihtating the manipulation , made all the other corrections as small as possible , and in particular rendered the correction depending on practically negligible , so that it was in most cases unnecessary to measure the length of the cold column at each observation .
It is easily seen that a formula precisely analogous to ( 5 ) applies to the reduction of the observations to any convenient standard temperature , other than C. , namely , , . . . .
( 6 ) where , denote the mean coefficients between and respectively expressed in terms of the volume at .
Formulae ( 2 ) and ( 5 ) may be regarded as special cases of this more general formula in which is replaced by and by C. respectively .
The majority of the observations in the first series with the cold column at the atmospheric temperature in the neighbourhood of C. , were reduced to a standard temperature of C. in the first instance , because the value of the coefficient at C. in terms of the volume at C. could be inferred with considerable accuracy from the observations themselves , and the difference was comparatively small .
The correction term was of the order of 3 per cent. at most , and was itself known with certainty to 1 in 2,000 .
If the observations had been reduced directly to C. by REGNAULT'S formula , this correction would in some cases have exceeded 30 per cent. , and would have been most uncertain , since the mean coefficient from C. to C. could be obtained only by extrapolation .
The corrections lnvolved in ing from , were of the order of 2 or 3 parts in 10,000 only , and could not give rise to any similar uncertainty .
With the apparatus above described , the expansion of mercury is obtained under a mean pressure of atmospheres , but the result will not differ from the expansion under a pressure of 1 atmosphere except in so far as the compressibility of mercury VOL. CCXI .
varies with temperature .
The compressibility of mercury , however , is so small that it would require a variation of 50 per cent. to affect the results appreciably even at C. It is most improbable that the variation of compressibility with temperature is as great as this .
It would have been necessary to apply a pressure of 2 or 3 atmospheres to the gauge to test this point satisfactorily , and it was not considered advisable to do this , since any accidental failure of any of the joints or taps under pressure at high temperatures might have involved dismounting and filling the whole apparatus afresh , and would have seriously interfered with the continuity of the observations .
4 .
Method of Filling the The adoption of the multiple manometer method , which was rendered necessary in order to avoid excessive length and pressure , entailed some difficulty in fillin the apparatus .
After adjusting the tubes in position , as shown in fig. 1 , the small bore steel tubes at the top and bottom of the hot and cold columns were connected by horizontal glass tubes , as shown in fig. , with taps attached at right angles .
The glass tubes nearly fitted the steel tubes , and the joints were made tight by running in a mixture of beeswax and resin .
The taps were suitably supported , and projected fanwise , upwards at the top , and downwards at the bottom , as shown in the side view in fig. 1 .
After the taps had been connected and the whole tested for leaks , the apparatus was heated to about C. , and evacuated , and dried by passing filtered air through it .
When cool , the apparatus was evacuated as completely as possible , and mercury was admitted by connecting a reservoir to each of the lower taps in turn , until the level of the mercury rose nearly to the upper cross tubes .
The apparatus was again evacuated by connecting the pump to each of the upper Fig. .
Fig. taps in turn , in order to remove any air displaced by the mercury .
The filling was then completed and the gauge tubes connected .
The absence of air was shown by the fact that , if the level on one side were disturbed by running mercury into or out of the gauge , by means of the three-way taps , and mercury reservoirs ( fig. 4 ) provided for the purpose , an equal change of level was almost immediately apparent on the other side of the gauge .
If the level was raised about 1 cm .
by ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
inserting a glass , without withdrawing or adding mercury , the returned to their previous values within mm. in about a minute after the removal of the plunger , in spite of the great length of fine tube through which the mercury had to flow .
If , on the other hand , the continuity of the mercury column was broken by a single air bubble in one of the fine tubes , the level could be altered by a centimetre or more on one side without any change taking place on the other .
It was feared at first that the presence of air bubbles might be a serious source of error , but the effect produced was so immediately obvious that no uncertainty arose in this way .
In spite of the care taken in evacuating the apparatus , some bubbles invariably appeared when the apparatus was first heated to high temperatures such as C. to C. after each fresh filling .
These bubbles were removed as they appeared by altering the level of the mercury in the gauge , so as to reduce the pressure and drive the bubbles round into the open space where the tap was connected , whence they could be removed by applying the air pump .
At the highest temperatures , from C. to C. , it was found necessary on account of the expansion of the containing tubes , which amounted to nearly 8 mm. at C. , to insert a flexible rubber connection , as indicated in fig. , between the glass taps and the small-bore tubes on the cold side .
The -joint was placed close to the end of the small-bore steel tube on the hot side to facilitate the trapping of bubbles , which were most troublesome at the higher tempel.atures .
Fortunately this trouble tended to disappear as the ocduded or dissolved gas was removed by repeated heating of the mercury .
5 .
Meth , od of Takring ) After the water and oil circulations , the heating coils were connected to the electric-light mains .
A current of 13 amperes at 100 volts sufficed to raise the temperature about C. in an hour and a half .
When the temperature approached the required point , the current was gradually reduced to the value which experience had shown to be sufficient to maintain the desired temperature .
The current was then switched over to a large battery of accumulators , which made it possible to keep the temperature very nearly constant with slight occasional adjustments .
But as the cold columns rose very slowly in temperature , at the rate of about a tenth of a degree in half an hour , the current was generally set to give a slightly greater rate of rise for the hot column during half an hour or so , followed by a htly slower rate for another half hour , so that during the first period the difference of temperature and the difference of level might be slowly increasing , and during the second period slowly dimimishing , at nearly the same rate .
By taking observations in this way the effects oflag , if any , would be eliminated from the results .
The actual readings of temperature and of difference of level were plotted on a large scale ( 10 cm .
to 4 cm .
on the bridge wire and 10 cm .
to 2 mm. of the difference of level ) , on a time base , so that the conditions of the experiment could be accurately followed , and any defect in the working of the apparatus , such as the appearance of an air Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
bubble at bigh temperatures , mediately detected .
The curves shown in fig. 6 and fig. 7 are typical examples , and will suffice to show how closely the difference of level followed every change in the difference of temperature .
The same ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
curves also served as a convenient means of graphic interpolation for deducing the simultaneous values of the observed quantities .
Since all the readin could not be made simultaneously , attention was directed to obtaining them in quick and regular succession .
The bridge was provided with mercury cup connections in place of the usual plugs , giving great improvement in quickness as well as in accuracy .
The thermometers could be interchanged instantaneously by means of a mercury cup switch , without introducing any variable contact errors such as would have been unavoidable with screw connections .
The telescopes reading the mercury levels contained eyepiece micrometers divided to tenths of a millimetre , fitted with vertical screw adjustments , and were focussed and adjusted so that the millimetre divisions coincided with those of the standard invar scale situated between the mercury columns .
By suitably shading and illuminating the mercury columns , readings could easily be taken by inspection to mm. A separate handle was provided for turning the vertical column carrying the telescopes through an angle of 2 degrees either way to verify the adjustment of the eyepiece micrometers on the invar scale .
This method appeared greatly preferable in practice to the use of a filar micrometer , since it was never necessary to touch the telescopes when once they had been adjusted for a run .
With a little practice , a single observer could take all the readings , and perform all the necessary adjustments , without any excessive haste or exertion .
In reducing the observations , points were selected on the curves both with a rising and falling temperature difference , where the temperature conditions appeared to be most favourable .
Points taken on the same day at nearly the same temperature always agreed so closely on reduction , that it was considered preferable to take short runs of about one hour each at two or three different temperatures on the same day rather than runs of long duration at one temperature .
Runs taken at the same temperature on different days , separated often by many months , when all the conditions of observatiom were completely changed , afforded a much better test of the accuracy of the method , and were more likely to serve for the elimination of constant or accidental errors than runs taken under constant conditions .
Observations given in the tables under the sam.e date at the same temperature were taken with a rising and fallin temperature respectively , or otherwise differed materially in the conditions under which they were taken .
6 .
Method of Reducing the The following example , showing the reduction of a single observation , will serve to illustrate the order of magnitude of corrections involved .
The corrections were worked to o1oe figure beyond the limit of accuracy of reading , except that , in the case of the platinum thermometers reading to C. , it was considered useless to express the temperatures beyond C. , as this represented an order of accuracy five times as great as could be obtained in reading the difference of level on the gauge :\mdash ; Temperature difference November 2 , 1908 .
3 .
Current amperes .
increasing .
Box temperature observed , C. Cold side .
Hot side .
Readings of platinum thermometers . . . . .
Calibration and temperature corrections . . . . .
Corrected bridge readings , . . . . .
Resistances at C. , . . . . . . . .
Differences , . . . . .
Fundamental intervals , . . . . . . . .
Temperatures on platinum scale , pt Corrections to gas scale ( -pt ) Temperatures and on gas scale Mercury gauge readings:\mdash ; Cold side .
Hot side .
Levels of mercury in gauge ( cm .
corrected ) . . . . .
Upper thermometers ( at 52 cm .
level ) . . . . .
C. C. Lowel thermometers ( at 8 cm .
level ) . . . . .
C. C. Mean temperature of columns below 51 cm . . . . . .
C. Correction for temperature difference , . . . . .
cm .
Difference oflevel , . . . .
cm .
Mean temperature of C. Correction of to Observed lengths of columns by steel tapes corrected Effective height , cm .
cm .
Temperature of observed , C. Reduction to negligible Corrected value of Expansion to Mean coefficient to in terms of volume at To facilitate comparison between the different observations in which the cold column was at atmospheric temperature , the results were further reduced to a standard temperature at C. for the cold column , assuming the value of the coefficient at C. in terms of the volume at C. to be .
The value of this coefficient could be deduced , with sufficient accuracy for the purpose , from the first series of observations , extending from C. to 18 C. This reduction may be effected by means of formula ( 6 ) , p. 9 , and involves the addition to in the numerator of the fraction representing the expansion of a quantity cm .
, which amounts in the present instance to about 1 per cent. of , but is known with considerable accuracy .
Including this correction we have finally:\mdash ; ON THL ABSOLUTE OF MERCURy .
Expansion from C. to C. in terms of volume at Mean coefficient from C. to C. in terms of volume at C. The further reduction to C. , involving a correction of 20 per cent. , could not be effected satisfactorily until the conclusion of the third series of observations , and was not required for comparing the results of the first two series , which are therefore reduced to C. in the tables given below .
The corresponding observation taken on the same day , with the difference of temperature , was as follows:\mdash ; November 2 , 1908 , 3.30 .
Current , amperes .
Resistance box , C. Bridge readings corrected for calibration and temperature . . . . . .
Temperatures on gas scale deduced . . .
C. C. Lengths on hot and cold columns . . . .
Levels of mercury in gauge ( corrected for scale ) . . . . .
Gauge thermometers : upper C. , C. ; lower C. , C. Temperatures of cross tubes : upper , lower C. Corrected difference of level , cm .
Temperature of C. eduction to C. cm .
The difference from the first observation would be explained by a lag of cm .
either way in the gauge reading , but is within the limits of accuracy of obserwation .
7 .
Summary of Observations .
The following tables contain a summary of all the observations taken after the apparatus had been got into proper working order .
Observations taken with the same upper limit of temperature are grouped together to facilitate comparison , and the observations in each group are arranged in order of date .
The first column gives the date .
The second column gives the observed value of the effective height of the hot column H2 corrected for scale error and temperature .
The correction for the difference of length of the hot and cold columns was always negligible in the first two series , and the value of is not given in the tables .
In the third series this correction became appreciable , and a separate column is added giving the values of .
The third and fourth columns give the temperatures and of the cold and hot columns , reduced to the gas scale .
The fifth column gives the value of the difference of level in the gauge , corrected for errors of the standard invar scale , and for difference of temperature between the gauge columns .
These corrections seldom exceeded cm .
, the limit of accuracy of reading and the data for applying them could not have conveniently been included in the tables .
The value of is not corrected for the mean temperature of the column itself , which is given under the heading in the next column .
The seventh column contains the value of the expansion from C. to in terms of the volume at C. , calculated by formula ( 6 ) , to the same order of accuracy as the values of , namely , to one figure beyond the limit of accuracy of reading .
The values of the expansion are not directly comparable , because they include the small variations of .
The last column is accordingly added , giving the corresponding value of the mean coefficient from to in terms of the volume at C. A variation of a tenth of a degree in should produce a variation of about 2 in the last figure of this coefficient , so that the small variations of would seldom affect the last figure but one of the coefficient .
The differences shown in this column exhibit the accumulated effect of all the possible errors of observation , including the effect of lag , to which many of the larger differences appear to be due .
Since most of the observations were purposely taken in pairs , as explained above , in such a way as to exhibit this effect , with a view to detecting and eliminating it , it is probable that the accuracy of the final means is not seriously affected by this source of error .
Series C. to C. ON THE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
Series I.\mdash ; Obserrations , C. to C. ( continued ) .
Date ( 1 ) Observations at ( 2 ) vatiol * The first pair of observations on this date taken lder ( pressure of 4 cm .
of ) than the second .
The first pair of observa.tions on this date taken under a pressure of 40 cm .
of mercury less han the secon\amp ; VOL. CCXI .
'Series ) servations 2 C. to C. ( continued ) .
0175551 0176624 0176692 000181963 000182043 000182003 0176482 0177019 0175543 000182026 000181983 000182027 0176532 0176344 000181975 000182002 000181965 0176279 000181997 Shortly after the conclusion of the last observations at C. , in attempting to take an observation at a temperature above C. , the mercury was observed to be in the gauge at the rate of about a tenth of a millimetre in 10 minutes .
When the apparatus was cold , the level continued to fall at the rate of about 1 cm .
ON ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF CURY .
per day .
A leak oue of the copper-brazed was suspected , but on dismounting the apparatus it was found that 0lle of the solid drawu steel tubes had apparently split in the process of mauufacture , and had been brazed yith ordinary spelter by the makers so skilfully that the flaw had escaped the apparatus was put together .
In process of time the hot mercury had naturally found its way through the brass .
A completely new set of steel tubes was accordingly fitted , which occasioned a good deal of delay .
Owing to the pressure of other duties , the apparatus could not be got ready for work again till the end of June .
Series ) C. to C. PROF .
HiJGH ) Series C. to C. ( continued ) .
ratus allowed to cool between the two sets of observations .
matory S As the determinations of the coefficient of expansion below 18 C. had all been Anade with the old set of steel tubes , whereas the determinations at temperatures above C. had all been made after the apparatus had been taken down and re-erected with the new set of steel tubes , a short series of ob@ervations were taken to confirm the earlier results .
Some observations were also taken at intermediate temperatures , but no use was made of these in evaluting an equation , as time did not permit of obtaining the steady state of temperature secured in runs of longer duration .
The is a summary of the results , reduced to C. :\mdash ; The results were not worked out beyond the limits of accuracy of the readings , but the agreement with the equation calculated from the previous observations ON SOLUTE XPANSION OF ( see below , p. 22 ) was considered to show ) occurred in the working of the ratus .
In order to be able to educe the obsel .
Vations with certainty to and to obtain a direct value for the fundamental interval without extrapolation , it was necessary to take a series of observations with the cold colulnll at a temperature as near C. as possible .
This point has already been explained in a previous section .
By surrounding one side of the iron rectangle containing the cold column with a jacket of melting ice , it was found possible to reduce ) temperature to between C. and C. By further cooling the cold column to .
with a mixture of ice and salt , while the hot column remained at the atmospheric temperature of C. , it was possible to obtain a good approximation to the coefficient at C. These observations entailed much greater difficulty in manipulation than the two previous series , but were valuable as givin direct evidence with regard to the expansion between C. and C. Series C. to PItOF .
HUGH L. CALLENDAR AND MR. HERBERT MOSS Series from C. to .
The last observations give the mean coefficient from C. to C. , which is practically the same as the actual coefficient at C. The values are expressed by formula ( 2 ) in terms of the volume at C. When expressed in terms of the volume at C. by formula ( 3 ) , the values become Means . . .
8 .
Formulaj for Expan.sion of An empirical formula representing the first two series was calculated in the first instance by the method of least squares .
This method was adopted by WULLNEB and BROOCH in reducing REGNAULT'S observations , and was fairly appropriate in that case , because the main source of error lay in measuring the small difference of level in the gauge .
In the present series of experiments , the fact that the difference of ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF IslERCURY .
2,3 level in the gauge could not be read nearer than cm .
was an important mitatio of accuracy at low temperatures , when the difference of level was small .
But at temperatures between C. and C. , where the difference of level was 40 to 60 cm .
, the possible errors in the measurement of the length and temperature of the hot columns became more important , and the order of accuracy was limited in a different way , namely , as a fraction of the whole quantity measured .
For low temperatures , the differences between the and calculated values of the expansion itself the best criterion of accuracy ; but for high temperatures , the corresponding differences between the observed and calculated values of the coefficient of expansion appeared to be a better guide the selection of an equation .
The formula obtained by the method of least squares was accordingly modified from this point of view , but the modifications required were so slight as to be almost within the limits of experimental error .
The following formula was finally adopted to represent the ) of the mean between C. and .
in of the volume at .
:\mdash ; . . . . .
( 8 ) The value of the fundamental coefficient .
given by this is It is , unfortunately , impossible to repl.esent the results satisfactorily ovel the whole range by a linear formula for the mean coefficient of expansion , because the of increase of the mean coefficient is more than twice as great at C. as at C. But for approximate work the following formula for the mean coefficient may be sufficiently exact to be of use :\mdash ; . . . . . . . . .
This formula gives results which are practically correct at C. and C. , and which do not differ from formula ( 8 ) by so much as C. at C. and at C. But the value of the mean coefficient is about 1 in 400 too low in the neighbourhood of C. and C. For convenience of comparison with the formula ( 8 ) , the obsel'vationS of Series I. and II .
( which were reduced to C. in the first stance , and expressed in terms of the volume at C. ) are here reduced to C. , and expressed in terms of the volume at C. , by multiplying the values of 1lamely , given in the tables , by the value of llamely , , given by the formula of comparison .
This reduction will not troduce any error iu the comparison of the observed results with those calculated by the formula .
BLEi I.\mdash ; Comparison of Results with Formula ( 8 ) .
The observations are nged in .
of temperature .
The column gives the sel.ies and number esponding to the previous tables of observations .
The second gives the temperature of the hot column , except in the case of the first line , Observation III .
( 4 ) , where the lower limit was C. in place of C. , and both limits are given .
The third and fourth columns give the observed and calculated values of the expansion between C. and , except in the first line , where the expansion between and is given instead .
The fifth column gives the differences between the calculated and observed values of the expansion multiplied by .
The last three columns give the observed and calculated values of the mean coefficient from C. to , and the difference , except in first line , where the mean coefficients from to 9 .
Ordc } of of the Results .
In compal.ing the results with the formula , it must be observed that the differences in Table I. all calculated to one figure beyond the limit of accuracy of observation , namely , , which corresponds to 10 in the rence between the calculated and observed values of the expansion .
Taking the observations at and below C. , the mean deviation of the observed expansion from the formula is only 11 , which corresponds with the limit of accuracy of reading .
The corresponding differences in the values of the mean coefficients , given in the last column , are here without significance , because it was obviously impossible to measure a short column of only cm .
to an order of accuracy of 1 in 20,000 under the conditions of the experiment .
ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
Taking the observations above C. , the mean deviation of the values of the mean coefficient of expansion from the formula is 15 , which corresponds to an order of accuracy of 1 in 12,000 .
The differences between the observed and calculated values of the expansion itself are of the same relative order , and increase in absolute magnitude , as one would naturally expect , with increase of temperature .
None of the observations at C. or below differ from the formula by so much as cm .
or C. Only one of the observations above C. differs from the formula by as much as 1 in 8,500 .
We may conclude that the formula represents the results with an order of accuracy of C. at temperatures below O. , and with an order of accuracy of 1 in 10,000 above C. Since positive and negative differences occur almost alternately , and are little , if at all , greater than might naturally be expected from the limits of accuracy of the various readings , it does not appear that any great advantage could be by the adoption of a more complicated formula , or by any more elaborate reduction or repetition of the experiments .
The mean deviation of the individual observations at each point is about twice as great as the deviation of the meall results from the mula .
The individual observations are affected by accidental of refraction through glass of the gauge tubes , and by errors of lag , which would disappear to some extent in the means .
Correction for lag would have made the observations agree with each other much better in most cases , but the could not always be applied with certainty , and it was therefore preferably omitted from the tables .
10 .
with Results .
It may be of interest to compare the results of the present investigation , as expressed by formula ( 8 ) , with some of the formulae which have been employed to represent the expansion of mercury .
REGNAULT assumed a linear formula for the mean coefficient , namely , He appears to have relied chiefly on the observations at the temperatures , and the formula does not represent his observations at temperatures below C. BROOCH , in reducing REGNAULT'S results , assumed a parabolic formula of the same type as formula ( 8 ) for the mean coefficient .
He also introduced a correction for the conduction of heat along the cross tubes , which were not quite in REGNAIJLT'S fourth series of observations , in order to eCOllcile the results of the fourth series with those of the first three .
The forlllula deduced by BROOCH was as follows:\mdash ; VOL. CCXI .
CHAPPUIS gave a formula of a similar type , to represent the results of his observations by the weight thermometer method between C. and C. This formula has been extrapolated by EUMORFOPOULOS ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 81 , p. 339 , 1908 ) , but extrapolation in such a case would be somewhat unreliable .
The following table gives a short comparison of the above formulae with formula ( 8 ) , showing the values of the mean coefficient multiplied by , together with the differences from formula ( 8 ) TABLE II.\mdash ; Comparison of Formulae .
A comparison of these differences with those given in Table I. on p. 24 in terms of the same unit , illustrates the state of uncertainty which existed with regard to the expansion of mercury in the year 1907 , and may be taken as sufficient excuse for the publication of the present work .
A similar comparison is shown graphically in a slightly different manner by the curves fig. 8 .
Since it would be impossible to plot the expansion itself graphically on an adequate scale , even by the copper-plate method employed by RHiGNAULT , the quantity plotted in fig. 8 is the difference of the expansion from lineality , or the difference of the mean coefficient from the fundamental coefficient multiplied by .
The heavy line with the large circles and crosses represents the results of the present series of observations .
The deviations from the curve on this scale scarcely exceed the thickness of the line .
The dots surrounded by small circles represent REGNAULT'S actual observations .
The broken lines represent the formulae of REGNAULT , WULLNER , and BROOCH .
It is evident that the curve representing our results also represents REGNAULT'S observations , as reduced by himself , much better than they are represented by any of the other three formulae .
The difference between the curves given by REGNAULT and WULLNER arises chiefly from the uncertainty already alluded to on p. 9 in reducing REGNAULT'S observations to C. The great deviation of BROCH'S curve from the others at high temperatures appears to arise chiefly from the correction which he introduced in the endeavour to reconcile ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
REGNAULT'S fourth series with the first three .
This correction produces a much larger deviation than the original discrepancy .
It must be admitted , however , that a deviation of the type assumed by BROOCH was quite possible so far as the evidence of so in Fig. 8 .
the observations went .
It is satisfactory to find that the error was not so serious as he supposed , and that the results of the present investigation are in such good general agreement with REGNAULT'S work .
11 .
Corrected Value of the -Point of Sulphur .
The preliminary results published in the Note on Boiling-Point of Sulphur\ldquo ; in September , 1909 , were affected by a small error in the fundamental interval , which at that time was uncertain , as the observations of Series III .
had not then been taken .
As pointed out in the note in question , a small error of this type is practically without effect on the result , owing to the manner in which the fundamental coefficient enters into the formula for the correction of the gas thermometer .
The final value of the boiling-point of sulphur given in the note is not changed by more than C. by the error in the fundamental interval itself Unfortunately the corresponding error in the coefficient , though much smaller , produces a larger error in the result , namely , C. , but this is still within the limits of error of the gas thermometer .
The following are the corrected values:\mdash ; The final corrected values of the ratios of the densities of mercury at C. , C. , and C. , given by formula ( 8 ) , are as follows:\mdash ; The observations taken with the weight thermometer in March , 1900 , as reduced by EUMORFOPOULOS , assuming BROCH'S reduction of REGNAULT'S observations , gave the following values of the coefficients expressing the expansion of the bulb : Our final corrected values of the expansion of mercury give the following:\mdash ; The correction to be added to the results of EUMORFOPOULOS for the boiling-point of sulphur , calculated by the formula given in the previous note , is .
in place of C. , as previously found by the preliminary reduction .
Strictly speaking , this correction applies only to the gas-thermometer observations taken with the same bulb as that used for the weight-thermometer determinations .
The value of the boiling-point of sulphur found with this particular bulb in March , 1900 , was C. The addition of the above correction would raise this result to C. The final mean obtained by EUMORFOPOULOS from observations with other bulbs , of which the expansion was not directly determined , was C. This would raise the corrected value of the boiling-point to C. But since the later bulbs were not treated in exactly the same manner as the first bulb , it is probable that greater weight should be attached to the first result .
The uncertainty of the gas-thermometer determinations at this point is of the order of C. , and ON THE ABSOLUTE EXPANSION OF MERCURY .
there does not seem to be any sufficient reason for changing the final value of the boiling-point of sulphur on the scale of the constant-pressure air or nitrogen thermometer from that given in the previous note and assumed for so many years , namely , C. 12 .
Explanation of the Tables of The accompanying tables of the expansion of mercury from C. to C. , together with the table of differences on the opposite page , make it easy to calculate the expansion from C. to any other temperature within the glven limits .
If one of the limits be not C. , the volume at each limit be found , the difference taken .
The following examples will make the use of the tables clear:\mdash ; ( 1 ) To find the expansion from .
to C.\mdash ; Expansion from C. to C. Difference for C. at C. , , .
, , .
, , .
, , .
Expansion from C. to C. The values found in this way from the tables , in general , be correct to 1 in the last figure , or C. , as given by formula ( 8 ) .
( 2 ) To find the expansion from C. to C.\mdash ; Volume C. Difference for C. at C. -722 , , .
, , .
90 Volume at C. Difference for C. at C. , , .
Volume at C. .
181 Volume at C. Volume at C. Expansion between limits TABLE III.\mdash ; Expansiox of ioncury from C. to 30 C. ON THE ABSOLUTA OLUTESIEX NS NERCURy .
TABLE .
of for Cesctions of C. PROF .
CALLENDAR AND MR. MOSS ON EXPANSION OF MERCURy .
The actual coefficient at any temperature is seldom required with a high order of accuracy .
It may be obtained from the tables with sufficient accuracy by taking the difference of the volumes for a range of C. on either side of the point where the coefficient is required , and dividing by 10 .
E.g. , to find the coefficient at C. , we have Volume at C. , , C. Difference/ 10 Coefficient of expansion at 30 C. [ Note added February 13 , 1911.\mdash ; It should be observed that the expansion of mercury is here expressed in terms of the scale of temperature , based on the platinum resistance thermometer , proposed by CALLENDAR ( ' Phil. Mag December , 1899 , p. 519 ) at the meeting of the British Association at Dover .
This scale assumes the formula given on p. 7 above for reducing the readings of a platinum thermometer to the gas-scale , and is equivalent to assuming the value C. for the boiling-point of sulphur .
It was admitted that this value might require a correction between C. and C. to reduce it to the absolute scale , but , as this correction depended on the extrapolation of experiments between C. and C. , it was considered inadvisable to alter the existing standard scale of platinum thermometry until further experiments had been made with helium and argon at high temperatures .
Many writers now adopt values ranging from to for the boilingpoint of sulphur .
This may lead to some confusion unless a definite convention is established .
Until the correction to the absolute scale has been determined with greater precision it would be preferable to retain the old scale .
]

