VIII .
Account ; of the Method of making Ice at Benares .
In a Letter to William Marsden , Esq. F. R. S. from John L1QYd Williams , , Esq.of Benares- .
Read Febrttary 14 , z793* DEAR SIRs As the lllethodof making ice in this country , where the thermometer , during part of the year , stands at from 9^ to 109 ' in the shadea has so:mething peculiar in it , I trust the foltowing descriptton of the 13r0\#163 ; ess will n-ot be unacceptable .
You-know that ice is made in India dllring the months-of ... ... ... . .
December , January and part of February , but I believe it has generally been considered as necessary to the congelation:of the water , that it shoulcl have been boiled .
However , I can &lt; now assure you , as a fact within my own observation for these nine years past , that a large quantity of ice has been made at this place every year withollt any preparation whatever , and I have often seen ice of an inch and quarter thick , notwithstanding I do not conceive that the atmosphere , at that time , : was sufficiently cold to produce the effect ; for I have frequently placed a thermomet-er , with the naked bulb on the straw , amidst the freezing vessels during the night , and on inspecting it between five and six oclock in the luorning ( at which time the ice-nakers informed me the -cold vYas most intense ) , I never found it below 5 ' .
I have elren seen ice , of a considerable thickness , formed whew the thermometer was not lower than 40 degreesi The method of making ice atl Seeroree near Bena-resy is as follows A space of ground of about fouracres nearly level is divided into square plats , from four to five feet wide .
The berders are taised , by earth taken from the surface of the plats , to about four inches , the cavities are filled 1lp with dry straw , or sugar-cane haum laid stnooth , on which are placed asmany broad shallow pans of unglazed earth as the space$ will hold .
These pans are so extremely porous that theiroutsides become moist the instant water is put into them &gt; they are smeared with butter on the inside , :to prevent the ice from adhering to themS and this it is necessarJr to repeat every three or four days it would otherwise be impossible to remolre the ice without either breaking the vessel , or spending more time in effecting it than could be affiorded , where so much is to be done in so short a time .
Irz the afternoon these pans are all filled with water , by persons who walk along the horders or ridges .
About five in the morning , they begin to remove the ice from the pans , which is done by striking an iron hc &gt; ok tnto the centre of it , and by that means breaking it into several pieces .
If the pans have been many days without smearing and it happens that the whole of the water is frozen , it is almost impossible to extract the ice withou1 : breaking the pan The number of pans exposed at one timeis computed at about zoo , ooo and there are employed , iru filling them with water in the evenings , and taking out the ice in the morningsS about oo men , women , and thdren ; the water is taken from a well contiguous to the spot .
New vessels , being most porous , answer best .
It is necessary that the straw be dryX when it becomes wetn as it frequently does by accident , it is removed , and replacede I have observed water which had been boiled , freeze in a china plateS yet having frequently placed a thina plate7 with well-water , alnong the unglazed pans on the straw beds , I found that when the latter had a considerable thickness of ice on them , the chirwa plate had none .
I have also wetted the straw of some of the plats , and always found it prevented the formation of ice .
The air is generally very still when much ice is formed ; a gentle air usually prevails from the southwestward about daylight .
I had a thermometer among the ice pans , during the season of making ice , with its-bulb placed on the strat , and another hang on a pole Sfeet above the ground , andcommonly observed , that when ice was fiormed , and the thermometer on the straw was from g7 to 42n : &gt; that on the pole would stand about 4 degrees higher ; but if there was any wind , so as to prevent freezing , both the thermometers would agree .
I shall offier no opinion respecting the causes of ice being:formed when the thermometer is so many degrees above the -freezing point , but hope the subject will be elucidated by some more capable person I ams &amp;c. Benaress March 25 , I 79a .
J. LL. WILLIAMS9

