369 The Genetics of Sex inFunaria hygrometrica .
By E. J. Collins , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) .
( Communicated by W. Bateson , Esq. , F.R.S. Received September 12 , 1920 .
) For dioecious mosses El .
and Em .
Marchal* have shown that sex segregation occurs at the meiotic division of sporogenesis , inasmuch as the individual spores which initiate the haploid gametophytic phase are uni-sexual , producing protonemata from which are developed leafy axes all of one sex either male or female .
In a former paperf the writer has shown that vegetative cultures derived from the antheridia and the surrounding " perigonial " leaves of the male " inflorescence " of Funaria hygrometri\#151 ; a monoecious type of moss\#151 ; produced male plants only , whilst cultures derived from spores reproduced the normal monoecious plants .
From this evidence it appeared probable that at some point in the cell divisions by which the axis and its organs are developed , a separation takes place such that the element upon which the monoecious condition depends is dropped out of those cells from which the male organ with its surrounding leaves is formed .
It was therefore highly desirable that vegetative cultures should be made from the female sexual organ and the leaves surrounding it , their genetic potentialities being unknown .
These experiments have now been carried out , vegetative cultures having been raised both from the archegonium and from the surrounding " perichsetial " leaves of Funaria hygrometrica .
After the fertilisation of the egg , the flask-shaped archegonium enlarges considerably , the basal part ( or venter ) particularly becoming much inflated .
In this condition it is quite easy to remove the greater part of the archegoni'um ( the venter with the surmounting neck ) for the purpose of experiment .
Cultures were made from the inflated venter and neck shortly after its appearance above the surrounding perichaetial leaves and also from these leaves .
Four pot cultures in all were established on sterilised soil , two from the venter and two from perichaetial leaves .
All were placed under a cloche upon moist sand in a zinc tray , together with a fifth pot of soil sterilised in the same way , but upon which no culture had been sown .
The pots were watered with boiled distilled water through an opening in the top of the cloche .
No growth appeared in the control pot .
These cultures have produced typical monoecious plants .
* 'Mem .
de l'Acad .
Hoy .
de Belgique , ' 1906 ; 'Bull , de l'Acad* Roy .
do Belgique Olasse des Sciences , ' 1907 , 1909 , 1911 .
t ' Journal of Genetics , ' vol. 8 , 1919 .
370 The Genetics of Sex in Funaria hygrometrica .
It appears evident , therefore , that up to the point of the formation of the female organ , the cells of the haploid gametophytic phase retain the power to produce monoecious plants , whereas the leaves surrounding the male organ have lost this power .
In Funaria in the early condition the shoot bearing the male inflorescence overtops the axis bearing the archegonia , and this appearance leads to the assumption that the female shoot is a lateral development .
From specimens taken from my cultures ( see text-figure ) the point of origin of the female Tracings from photographs of four Funaria plants , showing relation of female shoot to male .
In each case the female is distinguished by the protruding " neck .
" shoot appears variable , and in some cases the structure simulates a dichotomy .
More rapid growth of the male axis for the very obvious purpose of facilitating fertilisation would lead to the axis bearing the archegonia assuming a lateral position .
In view of the new observations as to the difference in potentialities of the male and female shoots , it becomes important to determine the morphological relation of the two parts and their exact cell-lineage .
For at some critical cell division a change takes place : either the power to produce the monoecious plants is extruded in the female shoot , the deficient male axis continuing the development ; or a bud which has lost this power is extruded as the male shoot , while the female shoot retains it and continues the development of the axis .
In this connection it is interesting to observe that Miss E. R. Saunders has shown me some of her preparations of the termination of the female axis , which show the presence of antheridia among the archegonia .
The cytological aspect of the phenomena has not been studied , and the generally accepted alternation of generation within the group with its n and 2 nphases has been assumed throughout .

