]\gt ; Mr. John Imray on the [ May 21 mediate step , with three classes only of the Arthropods\mdash ; the Myriopods , Spiders , and Insects , .
the Tracheata .
From the primitive condition of the tracheae in Iulus , and the many reIations between Peripatus and Scolopendra , it would seem that the Myriopods may be most nearly allied to form a distinct branch arising from it and not passing through Insects .
The early three-legged may turn out as of not so much sigifiance as supposed .
If these speculations be correct , the Crustacea have a diflerent origin from the Tracheata .
Peripatus itself may well be placed amongst Professor Hackel 's ; Grube 's term Onychophora becomes no more significant than De Blainville 's copoda .
Some notions of the actual history of the origin of Peripatus itself may be gathered from its development .
Tn conclusion I would beg indulgence for the many defects in this paper , due to the hurry with which it was written ( all available time , almost up to the last moment of our sailin for the Antarctic regions , having been consumed in actual examination of the structure of Peripatus ) , and due , further , to the impossibility of referring to original papers in any scientific library .
At all events it is hoped that Peripatus has been shown to be of very great zoological interest , as lying near one of the main stems of the great zoological family tree , and that further examination of the most minute character structure of this animal will be well repaid .
H.M.S. ' Challenger , ' Simon 's Bay , Cape of Good Hope , December 17 , 1878 .
II .
" " TheUniform Wave of ation .
By JOHN IMRAY , M.A. , Memb. Inst. C.E. Communicated by W. FROUDE , M.A. , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The results of the investigation worked out in this paper correspond with those previously deduced by other analysts , particularly by Mr. W. Froude , F.R.S. The paper is therefore presented , not because it discloses any novel result , but rather as an example of a method which the author has found useful in the discussion of other dynamical problems .
The object of the paper is to trace the conditions under which the molecules of a liquid such as water move , when a body of that liquid is in a state of oscillatory -movsment .
It is assumed that the wave-movement is established in a channel of uniform width and of length and depth so great that the conditions of motion are not affected by the interference of fixed ends or a fixed bottom .
The wave treated of has as its characteristics permanence of form and uniformity of apparent velocity .
In order that these conditions may be fulfilled , it is 1874 .
] Uniform Wave of Oscillation .
capable of geometrical demonstration , that all molecules which in repose would be at the same level , move in equal and similar traiectories , but that each molecule ards the one hand , as towards the right , is a certain interval of time in advance of the coutignous molecule on the left .
It is also taken as a necessary condition of the ement that the excursious of the molecules are periodic , and effected in closed orbits returning into themselves .
these general postulates , the author proceeds to investigate first the conditions necessnry to maintain uity of the liquid , or { he constancy of the vertical sectional area of an elementary portion of the liquid , in all parts of its orbit .
Hc then traces the operntion on such an element of the forces to -hich it is subjected , these forces being or the eight of the eleme]l itself , and the essure deted on it the liquid .
The in repose is to be ided into numerons zontal strata , each stratum ming an ting film when vemovement is established .
The length of any such stratum is ) posed to be divided into numerous portions , the width of each of hich is the rentlv t-ersed by the short al of time .
By -ing the depth of a , and the interval of time 11 hich determines the 1dth of one of its divisions , such that the elemeut of liquid may be considered a of constant area , the several diflerential equations expressing the continuity of the liquid and the effect of the forces on the elemeJlt are eloped in an illtegrable form .
The parallelogram representing the liquid elemeut is determined its form and position by the position of the points at its four One of those , namely at the lotl er left-hand angle .
is assumed to in a path the horizontal and vertical of which , and , are referr } to origin at a height measured from the bottom of the liqud , the position of the point its path is taken at a time reckoned from the epoch when the point as vertically under its origin .
The point the right-hand angle of the parallelogram is referred to an origin on the same level with the former , but separated horizontally from it by a , lvhere the apparent velocity of the ave , and is the short of time by which the one point is in advance of the other in its trajectory .
The coordinates and of the iirst point being functions of and , those of the other point the same functions of .
The upper lefthand point being referred to which is at a height above the level of the former origins , but being as contempora1leons in its movement with the point it , its coordinates are lctions of and ; and in like manner the coordinates of the upper righthand point are functions of and As it does not a priori appear that the origin of the upper point lust be vertically above that of the lower ( though in the se of the invesMr .
John Imray on the [ May tigation / is shoWIl that this must be the case ) , the author has , in the first instance , assumed that the upper origin is somewhat in of the lower , the amount of such advance being a quantity of the order which he has taken as ( it being afterwards proved that ) .
With this nomenclature , the equation of continuity is deduced in the following terms :\mdash ; a constant area independent of The pressure at the lower left-hand angle of the element being a function of and , equations are deduced giving values for the horizontal accelerating force , ' and the vertical accelerating force including gravity , , in terms of the differential coefficients of , and From these equations it is shown that , or that the pressure along any -stratum is uniform ; and this result leads to the simplification of the diiferential equations .
From the integration of those equations it is that every molecule of the liquid revolves with uniform velocity , and with the sftme velocity at all depths , in a truly circular orbit , the radius of hich depends on the depth of the molecule below the surfacs the liquid .
The law of variation of the radius is , that while the depths increase in arithmetical progression , the radius diminishes in geometrical progression , or that the logarithm of the reciprocal of the radius is directl .
to the depth of the centre .
The resultant of the forces acting on a molecule is shown to be alw.ays normal to the profile of the wa -surface of which the molecu ] forms a part , such resultant being compounded of gravity , a constant force acting downwards , and of the centrifugal force of the molecule , also a constant force acting radiaily ards from the centre of the orbit .
The magnitude of this resulMnt are represented by the position and length of $t line from any point in the orbit to a fixed point in the vertical line passing through the centre of the orbit .
The liquid element in traversing its circular path varies in width and in height to suit the varying direction of the forces acting on it , its greater height giving a greater hydrostatic pressure at the upper part of the orbit , where the centrifugal force is opposed to gravity , and its less height giving a less hydrostatic pressure at the lower part of the orbit , where the centrifugal force acts along with gravity .
Ihus the uniformity of pressure throughout the orbit is maintained .
As a molecule revolves uniformly round the centre of its orbit , this centrs is the mean centre of gravity of the molecule during a complete 1874 .
] Uniform Wave of Oscillation .
period .
It is shown that during -movement this centre is elevated above the level that would be occupied by the molecule in repose , height due to the vis viva of the molecule .
The profile of any atum is a rochoid , the length of which is the distance from hollow to hollow or from crest to crest , and the hsight is the diameter of the orbit of the molecnle belonging to that stratum .
The highest possible wave is that where the trochoid becomes the cycloid , or here the length of the wave is equal to the circumference of the orbit .
trochoid of greater height is cally possible , as such a curve must have a looped crest , where the liquid molecules old h to cross pnths of other , producing broken water .
The velocity and period of a ) the and actual velocities of the liquid moleculeq , are deduced in terms of the le1lgth of the wave .
The general results of the estigation are shown by the following formulae , in which the symbols employed of from crest to crest .
velocity , or dist apparently ersed by the wave in a given of time .
period , or time occupied by the passage of the vity ( 32 feet per second ) .
radius of the orbit of a molecule at height measured from bottom , and dius at height .
, and vertical ordinate of molecule in stratum height at time from the epoch hen the molecule is at its lowest point , when Then origin being the centre of orbit , angular velocity

