II .
" On the Metallic and some other Oxides , in relation to Catalytic Phenomena .
" By the Rev. J. EYRE ASHBY .
Communicated by the Rev. JOHN BARLOW , F.R.S. Received March 8 , 1855 .
I purpose to detail some experiments on the metallic ( and a few other ) oxides , made with a view to ascertain their powers to produce and maintain , catalytically , the combustion of various gases and vapours ; and to annex such considerations as appear to be suggested by the facts .
By catalysis I understand the operation of one body upon another , under favourable circumstances , whereby the second body is resolved into new chemical combinations , while the first ( whatever may happen during the process ) remains finally unchanged .
This must be taken as not including explosion by percussion , in which the change takes place owing to the external application of dynamic force .
The apparatus for experimenting comprehends a variety of shallow capsules ; wire-gauze , of iron , copper , and brass , of different degrees of fineness , cut into discs a little larger than the vessels on which they are to be superimposed ; a spirit-lamp with large wick ; a pair of pliers , and a few rings of wire to support the gauze , if necessary , while heating it in the spirit flame .
The method of procedure is simple : the watch.glass , or capsule , is nearly filled with the liquid whose vapour is to be tried ; on a wire-gauze disc is spread the oxide whose powers as a catalyser are to be tested , and this being warmed ( more or less ) over the lamp , is set down upon the upper rim of the capsule .
Sometimes it is necessary to heat a layer of the oxide in the middle of a small combustion-tube , and pass over it the gas , or mixture of gases .
I tried the following substances with pyroxylic spirit ( hydrated oxide of methyl ) and alcohol separately .
1 .
Co. O appeared to possess the power in some degree , but perhaps the specimen was in too dense agglomeration , which is not essentially reduced by trituration .
2 .
Co2 o , maintained the catalytic combustion very well .
3 .
Ag .
O , reduced to metallic silver , which shows a strong tendency on gauze , and acts perfectly in the combustion-tube .
4 .
U2 03 , HO became , at red heat , anhydrous mixture of U0 and Us 04 , showing strong tendency .
A very pure specimen catalysed the vapour as it changed from yellow to green , after which it died away .
Will not act below 570 ?
( F. ) .
5 .
Sn .
O ; strong tendency .
6 .
Sn .
O2 ; slight tendency .
7 .
W. 03 apparently produces the effect if placed while glowing , over alcohol , but gradually dies away , as if very slowly cooling .
8 .
Pb3 04 changed to Pb .
O , and showed a strong tendency , but quickly faded and grew cold .
9 .
Cd , 0 , placed while very warm over pyroxylic spirit , burst into glow and catalysed , but always died off after the lapse of from half a minute to two or three minutes , and then became incapable .
10 .
Ca. O ( on the gauze ) , no effect .
11 .
Si.02 exhibited a tendency .
12 .
Stourbridge clay ; no effect .
13 .
A1203 appeared to have no effect in maintaining catalytic combustion on the gauze , but when made red-hot and quenched in absolute alcohol , it changed from pure white to a black substance and oxidized a portion of the alcohol .
That this is not owing to carbon in the alcohol is evident , because the same change occurs when it is quenched in strong liquid ammonia .
I suspect that it is a new oxide of aluminium .
14 .
Ni2 03 , formed by heating carbonate of nickel nearly to red .
ness , failed ; prepared from the common nitrate , it acted for a short time ; reduced as an intensely black velvety substance from the purest nitrate , then warmed but not made red-hot , it glowed and catalysed with alcohol or ether .
With pyroxylic spirit , it was left at the end of the operation of a greenish drab , which I suspect to be a mixture of Ni2 03 with Ni .
O , although it may be Nis 03 changed only in appearance , for when treated with nitric acid no nickel is dissolved .
15 .
Mn 02 is changed at red heat into Mn2 03 , which , with alcohol , ether , and pyroxylic spirit , continues the slow combustion very steadily .
A specimen of very pure Mn2 03 acted extremely well , as did also a portion of " euchrome " ( a hydrated sesquioxide of manganese ( impure ) dug from the estate of Lord Audley ) , after being heated in the air to drive away the carbonaceous matter with which it was mingled .
Mn2 03 will , if sufficient care be taken , catalyse the moist gas arising from a strong solution of ammonia .
16 .
Fe2 03 , when in the state of a light puffy powder , catalyses the vapour of ether , alcoliol , and pyroxylic spirit , only requiring to be heated on the gauze before it is laid over the capsule .
It is cheap , easily employed , and of invariable action .
I have kept up the combustion for several hours on a surface of 120 square inches .
By means of a catalytic lamp in which the liquid employed is continually supplied from a reservoir and maintained at a constant level in the capsule , I have used 7 or 8 square inches continuously during thirty-six hours .
This lamp I have occasionally used for laboratory purposes , where a gentle and equable heat was required for several hours .
Pursuing my experiments with : the oxides of the metals , heated on wire gauze , I tried as many a , I could procure or make , and by a tolerably wide induction I found that the sesquioxides have the strongest tendency to produce and maintain the catalytic glow , and do produce it in every case in which they are not decomposed by the amount of heat required to begin the operation .
When hydrated Fe2 0 , is heated and placed over alcohol , its colour is deepened towards black , but not uniformly , and when cold the original colour returns .
But if it be made red-hot and quenched in boiling alcohol out of contact with air , it is converted into hydrated Fe,04 , and remains permanently a deep black magnetic powder , soluble in acids .
A strong solution of ammonia may be substituted for the alcohol with the same effect , but in this case some of the sesquioxide will remain unaltered and mixed with the black oxide .
The alcohol or ammonia is correspondingly changed by oxidation derived from the oxygen which has been released from combination with the iron .
If the hydrated Fe3 04 be heated in contact with air , it immediately ( even when it has been kept for many months ) becomes Fe2 03 by oxidation from the atmosphere , but if heated to redness in vacuo , it cools unchanged .
[ Can the black powder of alumina be Al3 04 , formed in a similar way ?
] The process of catalysation by Fe2 03 is thus evident ; the heated sesquioxide loses a portion of oxygen to the alcohol and becomes Fe , 04 , which is instantly reconverted into Fe2 O0 by receiving oxygen from the air , and this alternation is constantly going on in every portion of the glowing mass .
It is not a mere action de prEsence , but alternate reduction and oxidation of the sesquioxide , producing a continuous oxidation of the alcohol .
This suggests a consideration apparently adverse to the atomic hypothesis of Dr. Dalton .
How can a single compound molecule Fe2 0 .
be changed by deoxidation into another compound molecule Fe^ 04 , when , according to theory , there are in it but two combining proportions of iron , whereas the resultant contains three ?
and how ( by deoxidation ) can the resultant molecule contain four combining proportions of oxygen when the primary contained only three ?
We can indeed represent to the imagination that three molecules of the sesquioxide , acting as if they were one triple molecule , lose one combining proportion of oxygen , and are converted into two molecules of the black oxide ; and conversely , that two molecules of the black oxide , acting as if they were one double molecule , combine with one atom of oxygen , and are converted into three atoms of sesquioxide .
The only way to account for this , in accordance with the popular atomic theory , seems to be , to assume that the notation for these oxides is incorrect , and that for Fe2 0 we should write Fe6 0 , and for Fe3 04 we should write Fe .
OS .
If the current notation be retained , and any law be admitted , in virtue of which three molecules of sesquioxide may suffer reduction as if they were only one molecule , and divide into two molecules of the magnetic oxide , we might conceive a peculiar structure in the Fe3 04 , with a tendency to separate again into FeO , Fe 03 ; that it is really in combination as Fe3 04 , but ready to yield to slight causes and become FeO , Fe2 03 .
This would explain Mr. Mercer 's experiment ( quoted by Brand , I. 716 , edition 1848 ) of the chemical union of a mechanical mixture of protoxide and peroxide of iron .
Perhaps the sesquioxides occupy a middle place in the scale of effects .
Take the case of iron ; we have Fe + 0 , pyrophorus , -violent oxidation , Fe2 03+ NH3 +0 , alternate reduction and oxidation , Fe 03 + NH3 ( in water ) , reduction .
To show the last , add ammonia to a solution of FeO , , KO , and Fe2 03 will be precipitated .
A mixture of ten parts by weight of powdered chlorate of potassa with one part of Fe .
0 disengages oxygen with extreme facility and great economy of heat as compared with the oxides of copper and manganese ; and it is the more convenient because n grains of the mixture will represent almost exactly n cubic inches of disengaged oxygen .
A state of mechanical division is not absolutely necessary for the catalysation of some inflammable vapours by Fe2 03 ; an old nail , entirely transmuted into rust , will perform the operation ; and when we consider that iil many cases of fermentation , decay and putrefaction , this oxide may be present , divided or aggregated , while heat is evolved , and inflammable gases and vapours are set free , we may hereafter be able to trace some instances of " spontaneous combustion " to the catalytic action of the sesquioxides of iron .

