256 Prof. J. Dewar .
" Preliminary Note on the Liquefaction of Hydrogen at Helium .
" By James Dewar , M.A. , LL. D. , F.RS .
, F. lerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institute Received and read May 12 , 1898 .
In a paper entitled " The Liquefaction of Air and Research Low Temperatures , " read before the Chemical Society , and pt !
lished in their 'Proceedings/ No. 158 , an account is given of t history of the hydrogen problem and the result of my own expe ments up to the end of the year 1895 .
The subject is again di cussed in a Friday Evening Lecture on " New Researches \lt ; Liquid Air , " * which contains a drawing of the apparatus employ for the production of a jet of hydrogen containing liquid .
It vt shown that such a jet could be used to cool bodies below the tei perature that could be reached by the use of liquid air , but i attempts to collect the liquid in vacuum vessels failed .
No otln investigator has so far improved on the results described in 189 The type of apparatus used in these experiments worked well , so was resolved to construct a much larger liquid air plant , and 1 combine with it circuits and arrangements for the liquefaction \lt ; hydrogen , which will be described in a subsequent paper .
Th apparatus , admirably constructed by the engineers , Messrs. LennC : Reynolds , and Fyfe , took a year to build up , and many months ba\ been occupied in testing and making preliminary trials .
The man failures and defeats need not be detailed .
On May 10 , starting with hydrogen cooled to \#151 ; 205 ' C. , an under a pressure of 180 atmospheres , escaping continuously from th nozzle of a coil of pipe at the rate of about 10 cubic feet to 15 cubi feet per minute , in a vacuum vessel double silvered and of specif construction , all surrounded with a space kept below \#151 ; 200 ' C liquid hydrogen commenced to drop from this vacuum vessel int another doubly isolated by being surrounded with a third vacuun vessel .
In about five minutes , 20 c.c. of liquid hydrogen were col lected , when the hydrogen jet froze up from the solidification of ai : in the pipes .
The yield of liquid was about 1 per cent , of the gas The hydrogen in the liquid condition is clear and colourless , show ing no absorption spectrum and the meniscus is as well defined as in the case of liquid air .
The liquid has a relatively high refractive index and dispersion , and the density appears to be in excess of the theoretical density , viz. , 018 to 012 , which we deduce respectively from the atomic volume of organic compounds and the limiting density found by Amagat for hydrogen gas under infinite * ' Roy .
Inst. Proc. , ' 1896 .
On the Liquefaction of Hydrogen and Helium .
expression .
My old experiments on the density of hydrogen in oladium gave a value for the combined body of 0 G2 , and it will be foresting to find the real density of the liquid substance at its bling point .
Not having arrangements at hand to determine the hling point , two experiments were made to prove the excessively 1(- temperature of the boiling fluid .
In the first place , if a long nee of glass tubing , sealed at one end and open to the air at the o.er , is cooled by immersing the closed end in the liquid hydrogen , 11 tube immediately fills , where it is cooled , with solid air .
The Kond experiment was made with a tube containing helium .
The ' Cracow Academy Bulletin * for 1896 contains a paper by lofessor Olszewski , entitled " A Research on the Liquefaction of ilium , " in which he states " as far as my experiments go , helium mains a permanent gas and apparently is much more difficult to luefy than hydrogen .
" In a paper of my own in the ' Proceedings \lt ; the Chemical Society , ' No. 183 ( 1896-7 ) , in which the separation \lt ; helium from Bath gas was effected by a liquefaction method , the sggestion was made that the volatility of hydrogen and helium mid probably be fonnd close together just like those of fluorine d oxygen .
Having a specimen of helium which had been tracked from Bath gas , sealed up in a bulb with a narrow tube tached , the latter was placed in liquid hydrogen , when a distinct piid was seen to condense .
A similar experiment made with the ( e of liquid air under exhaustion in the same helium tube ( instead liquid hydrogen ) gave no visible condensation .
From this suit it would appear that there cannot be any great difference in le boiling points of helium and hydrogen .
All known gases have now been condensed^into liquids which can e manipulated at iheir boiling points under* ' atmospheric pressure i suitably arranged vacuum vessels .
With hydrogen as a cooling gent , we shall get within 20 ' or 30 ' of the zero of absolute tem-erature , and its use will open up an entirely new field of scientific iquiry .
Even as great a man as James Clerk Maxwell had doubts s to the possibility of ever liquefying hydrogen * No one can pre-ict the properties of matter near the zero of temperature .
ara ay iquefied chlorine in the year 1823 .
Sixty years afterwards Wrob-ewski and Olszewski produced liquid air , and now , after a fifteen ears ' interval , the remaining gases , hydrogen and helium , appear as tatic liquids .
Considering that the step from the liquefaction ot air o that of hydrogen is relatively as great in the thermo-dynamic sense is that from liquid chlorine to liquid air , the fact that the former esult has been achieved in one-fourth the time needed to accom-ilish the latter , proves the greatly accelerated rate of scientific progress in our time .
* See * Scientific Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 412 .
Mr. S. R. Roget .
Effects of prolonged The efficient cultivation of this field of research depends combination and assistance of an exceptional kind ; but in inKl# instance money must be available , and the members of the Institution deserve my especial gratitude for their handsome do !
tions to the conduct of this research .
Unfortunately its proseJ\amp ; t will demand a further large expenditure .
The handsome contribute !
made by the Goldsmiths Company ought also to be mentioned , very materially helping the progress of the work .
During the whole course of the low temperature work carried f at the Royal Institution , the invaluable aid of Mr. Robert Lem !
has been at my disposal ; and it is not too much to say that but r his engineering skill , manipulative ability , and loyal perseveran M \#163 ; reSfnt successful lssue might have been indefinitely delay ' My thanks are also due to Mr. J. W. Heath for valuable assistan in tne conduct of these experiments .
" Effects of Prolonged Heating on the Magnetic Properties ' ron .
y S. R. Roqet , B.A. Communicated by Profess Ewing , F.R.S. Received April 4 , \#151 ; Read May 12 , 1898 .
as been known for some years that when transformers a Ft !
li .
T ' h'lr 'Pen-circuit loss is liable to increase considerab with the lapse of time .
This implies a deterioration of the iron coi m regard to magnetic hysteresis .
The subject began to receu a en ion m 1894-5 , when some curves showing this increase i hysteresis were published by Mr. G. W. Partridge* The effe\lt ; was first thought to be due to a species of magnetic fatigue , resultin rom repeated reversals of magnetism in the iron , but it was proved b Professor Ewing early in 1895 not to be due to this cause ; + an was further shown by the experiments of Mr. Blathy and Mi or ey o e a direct effect of heat and to occur in transformers as i consequence o the iron being maintained for long periods at a com paratively high temperature .
Continued baking of iron was foun .
o produce a similar augmentation of hysteresis .
The published results of Mr. Mordey , + and , later , those of Mr. Parshall , S deal with prolonged heating at temperatures which do not exceed 140 ' G At the suggestion of Professor Ewing , the author has been carrying out , in the laboratory of the Engineering Department of Cambridge niversity , some investigations which deal with a more extended range of temperature .
The experiments are still in progress , but The Electrician , ' vol. 34 , p. 160 , December , 1894 .
+ Ibid. , p. 297 , January , 1895 .
J * Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' yol .
57 , p. 224 , June , 1895 .
S ' Min .
Proc. Inst. O.E. , ' vol. 126 , p. 244 .

