XIV .
Obserratzons on some Egyptian Mummies opened in London .
By John Frederick Blumenbach , M. D. F. R. S. A(Ia dressed to Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. P. A. S. Read April lo , z794 .
AMONG the many instances of kindness I have experierlced during my late abode in London , of which the recollection can never be obliterated from my memory , I reckon and acknowledge with gratitude , the uncommon , and to me very interesting , opportunities that were affiorded me , to operl and examine several Egyptian mummies .
A few days after my a.rrivaln I found in the library of my 11olloured friend Dr. GARTHSHORE , F. It .
S. among other Egyptian antiquities , a small mumtnyS not above one foot in length , of the usual form of a swathed puppet , wrapped up in COttOll bandages , painted and gilt in its front part , and inserted in a small sarcophagus of sycamore wood , in which it fitted exactly .
Having expressed a vish to kllonv the contents of this figure , the Doctor was kindly pleased to permit the opening of it ; which accordlngly took place ola the 21St of January , y92 , at Ilis house , in the presence of the President and several members of the Pcoyal Society , and other men of letters .
The mummy itself measured 92 inches ill length , and 8 inches in circumference at the breast , where it was of the greatest thickness .
The mask , exhibiting human features , was of a gypseous plastern which here and there showed sonze signs of having once been gilt .
Of the sernicimular breast-plate , oIlly some frrclgments were still extant .
The lower part of the front covering was- , as is frequently observed on laz^ge mtllnnies , ill a manner dissected ill regular compartmentsX and ola it were painted the two stallding fi gures that so often appear ol ] the integtlments of tnummiesS vis .
ola the rigElt side , Anubis with the dogs head , and on the left , Osiris Witil the head c)f a sparromvhawk The mumrny itself was opened at the side .
the outsnrartl i2lteguments welee gltlewd so fast UpOll each otRzer that it\0J9 founa necessary to tlse a saw : the inller olles were less adhesive I COllllted itl the whole above 20 circuluv-oltltions of these cotton bandagf s. Withirl tlwese was founI , as a kind of llucleus , a bulldle , about 8 inches long , and full 2 inches in circumference , of the illteguments of a larger mummy , strongly lmpregllated vfitl-s a resinous substcllce , uthicll rfenderetl it 11ard and compactn aIact which appeared on the eelge to have been shaped into this oblong form by the paring of a knite .
Pieces of this tnass having been put on a heated poker , ernitted a stnell perfectly similar to that of fir-rosin , or the drug called zvild incense from antIlills .
'Ithe sarcophaglls consisted of six small square boards of sy camore , fastened together with iron nails .
Soon after , I found in the collection of Dr. LETTSOM , F. R. S another similar muumy , which , outwardly , perfectly resembled the above , was likewise contained ill a sarcophagus , and differed ozly in the dinlensions , this bei ] 142 i:leles lo1g and r 1ill c.ircumSerence at the breast .
The proprietor was likewise kinel enough to suffer me to open it , which I did at his house on- the 2gth of Jarluary .
But much as it resembled Dr. GARTI--ISHORE'S laummy externally , it was found very diSerent as to its contents , there lDeing in it a great number of detached bones of the skeleozz of aa Ibisn which were only here and there endued with rosin .
This striking difference , no doult , rather excit-ed than satisfiefl my CulOiOsit ; y and having hereupoll found in the Britisil MUseUtn rlO less than three SUC ; 1 dimillutive tnuinmies , which were now to me become enigmatical , ( viz. two in the HA U WIILTONIAN collection of antiquities9 both contained itl the same kilad of square woodell coffins , cli &lt; claed with iroJa nails9 and the third in the SI .
OANIAN collection ) , I Selt arl irresistible impulse to apply to the Presitlent of the Royal Society , as olae of the curators of the Museumn for his interference towards obtaining perluission to opell one of these three , ill order to have at1 oppottunity for some further comparison .
The result of this application was , that at the very 1lext neeting of the curators leave was grantee:l me , in the most liberal luanller , not only to opela one of these little mummiesy but also to clloose amollg the four large ones that are in that noble repository , ' the one that shollld appear to me the most likely to aiord some material illformation on the subject .
I chose among the small olles the SLOANIAN , aS it seemed to In to dier more than the tszo in the HAMILTONIAN col. .
Iection , from either that of Dr. GARTHSI1ORE or Dr. LETTSOM .
The follr large mummies resembled in the main the one deposite63L in the academical museum of Gottiilgen , which I Aa e examined in the summer of the year 178t .
I selected , how ever , the one that appeared to di-ffer most from the otherss and from ours , by the very close adhesion of the bandages , from which I had reason to expect soxne difference in the inte-rior preparation of it tThe 18th February ^ras appointed for the opening of these two mtlmmies at the Museum , in the presence of a numerous and respectable meeting .
The small rnutntny was externally very similar to those I had operled before , except that it wZas only 1II6Oinclles in length , and 8-I2o inclaes round the breast , somewhat more com pact in the handling , alldS proportionably to its size , rather heavier .
On sawing it open , a resillous smell was immediately emitted , and glutinous particles of rosin adhered to the heated sanv , rrhis was owing to the COttOIl balldages having been from without impregt1ated with rosin , which was not the case with the two former ones .
Oll opening it completely , we found in the inside a htlnlan os bumerz , being part of the tnummy of a yollllg person , perhaps eight years olel , who had been errlbalmed with rosinS and with it were also founcl some slareds of the original integuments likewise impregnated witha rosin .
The upper elld ( cpzlt ) of the tone was inserted in the head , and the low-er ex tremity was at the feet of the little figure .
Although vthen viewed externally nothing appearect suspi cious ill this little mulnlny , I foundb however7 on examining carefully the successive integuments , that the outward ones had some traGes of our common lint paper , with which it seemed to have been restored and afterwards painted overO The large mummy I was permitted to examine , appeared by its stature to be that of a young person not above + years caldf but wXno had not it seemeds as yet shed all his teeth .
Its outward painted integuments were very similar to those of the Gottingen mulumy as it is figured in the IVth .
77ol .
of the Comnzentat !
ne3 SocietatZs Scientlaruvn .
rflle batldages about the head were in a manner caked together by meatls of rosin .
The skull was enclosed in a kincl of cast of the same substance , which could with clifficulty be removed from it .
It seemed alson to Judge by its veightn to be filled with rosit &gt; which particularly appeared in the cavity between the palate and the lower jaw The rosin here having been gradually punched out , not the least appearance of a tcongue was discernible ; though some have asserted to have found traces of it in mummies ; nor was any thing iike the little golden plate ( the supposed Watl/ US ) to be here zuet with .
rlhere were no remains whatever of the soft fleshy parts , of skin , tentlonsS &amp;c. , in sl &lt; ort , nothing was found but mere naked bones .
he anaxillz were sensibly prorninentS but by no means so much as in a true Guinea faoe ; and not More so than is often seen un laandsome negroes9 and not seldotu on European coun tenances .
NVhat ap ?
eared to ule very relnarkablen and has , as far as I can learn , never yet been noticed is two exterior artificial ears , made of cotton cloth and rosirl , , and applied one on each side oi : the head .
rrhat oll the right side was prominent ; but the other seemed to have been $1aoved from itsproper place it was compresseel and much disfigured .
The cotton bandages on the remalnderof the body were-loosen not glued together and readily yielded to the pressure ; of th@ hand .
The great cavity of the trunk was filIed uzit]:l bundled ragsy and ( lark brouTIl vegetable snouldg in W}aic1l9 howevern some pieces of rosin were here and there discovelXed .
13ut the inside of the thoracic cavity orz both sides of the splne3 and the snner surEace of the ossa ili ?
zan , were covered with a thick coat of rosln .
No idol , or ally artificial syrnbol hatever , was found in the insicle of this mutumy .
Nor did i-t contaiP-l akay thing like aIz onionf such as have been nosr and then found about the parts of generatiqn , or under cone of the foot-soles of Inuurnies .
The bones of the arns lay along the side of the body , ln the same manner as those of the Got ; ingen muminy , and the -S ?
no at LeXpzig , described by KETTNER .
Whereas s11 the\#162 ; lummy at GothaS\#163 ; !escsloibed by FIERTZ8G , the two at Breslau , that velOe exanilaed by GRYPHIUS , another at Copenhagen , that sras dissected by BRINNICH , and a fifth wlaicll belonged-to the Royal SOciety9 allT1 has leen described by Dr. HAD-LEY in the PXnilosophical Tralasactions , the arius were found lying across osrer the breast .
On some of the bones of the arrns , for instance on the left os humerin utas found some glutinous rosila , whichU on being touched stailled the fingers of a dusky red greasy colour , and hafl a strong empyreulnatic alkaline taste .
In the remainder of the body , the dry rosin +7vas alluost entirely covered or impregnatec3L with a salille crust , by which the tboracic vertebrz in particular were much corroded , land which had entirely stripped the intermediate corpora vertebrarum of their periosteum .
Circumst-ances did not allostr mg to make any experiments On this salt ; but I have since obtained from my szorthy friend JOHN HAWKINS , ES4 .
F. R. S. sonae considerable pieces of mummies which he had bouglat of a druggist at Constantinople , one of which vas covered and inlpregnated with a saline irocruswation , wakich in taste and a:3pearance was very similar to that I have jtlst now neztiolled .
Of this I dissolved a part in water , filt ; ered and evaporated the solution , and thus obtained a tree sorla ) or mineral aakali ( natrzlnzJ , which shot into very neat arud regtalar crystals .
( See Tab. XVI .
fig. 4 .
) For the sake of compa^isoll , I examined -another large mutntny in the Ad[useum , vnicll had ( llready been opened in several places .
r:Ullis svs oF a t &gt; Xl11 grown person , and measured S feet , irlclles itl length .
L ; ke the former , it slaenved not the least trace of ally of t3ze soft parts , but consistEd of nothing but naked bolles .
ILxcept a little roslll vfhicll sublck fclst besveen the teeth this mum-myn as far as its insidle cotllel be examined , colltailled nolle of that substanceo its thoracic clad abdoIninal carrities being entirely filied vitll a dark browz rnould which also occtlpied the whole space ketvs7een the palate and the lower jaw , svllere it could easily l)e lovselled anel drawn out with the fingers .
rile maxing of this rnummy were still le.ss prominent than those of the former one .
Some weeks after , viz. the yth Marcll , I had all opportu nity to examine one more mummy at the Honourable CHARLES GREVILLENS , F. R. S. nYhich had four years be-fore , viz. March 29 , 1788 , been already opened in the presence of several curious spectators .
It belorlged to JOI-IN SYMMONS , Esq. of Grosvenor house , Westminster , who with the naost obliging readiness allowed me uncotaditionally , not only to dissect it as much more as I should think proper , but X1SQ to select and take away whatever parts of it I shotxld think worthy of a particular investigation .
It was a mumlny of a cllild about six years old , which as to its preparation , ( viz. without rosin , and without the least remainlng trace of any of the soft parts ) , and the painted semicircu1ar breast-plate , consisting of several folds of cotton cloth glued lIpOIl each otherg was very similar to those at the British Sfalseam , and the one at Gotfingen , except that the characters UpOll that part of the wtton integuluent which coverd the shanks , resembled rather more the figures of the one delilleated by Count CAYLUS5 in his Reaeil , Sc. Vol. V Tab. XXVI XXIX .
Nothing remained of the 11ead lout some pieces of the bones of the f-lce , a few teeth , and the masli , which still adhered to the cotton bandages .
Among the teeth I found the incisores , which notwithstanding the tender age of the person had llowever a vely short thick crowll , considerably worIl away at that edge which is vIszally sharp .
'this , therefore , is a new confirmation of the extraordinary plaalaomenon which I had already noticed in a complete skull , and some fragments of jaws , in my own collection , and which had also been observed by 1MIDDLETON in the Cambridge mummy , + and by BRUCKMANN in the one that is at Cassel..* STORR has also seen something similar in a mummy that is preserved at Stuttgard .
S If tve reflect during how lnany centtirieS3 and through what s variety of revolutions , the Egyptians have used the practice of mummifying their dead bodiess It will naturally occur that we are IlOt tO expect in all mumInies a similar characteristic formation of the teethf any more than we are to look for a similar characteristic national form ill their productions Of art .
This peculiar structure of the teeth was llot obserrred in the two mummies I examined in the British Musellln , neither does tt exist in our Gottingen mummy- .
A detacTled skull of a mummy in the ; Museum , prepared with rosin , and which bore great resemblance to the abovementic3ned in its general fortna and especially ill the narrowness of the poll , laacl unfortunately the crowns of the teeth so much mutilated as to afford no manner of information concerning this circumstance .
The above observation llowever appears , at all events , to be well worth attending to , as it may hereafter prove a criterio\ for deterrnining the period at which any given mummy has been prepared .
But xvhat itaterested me most in Mr. SYMMONS}S mummy was the mask , to the two sides of which pieces of the balldageS with which the whole of the exterior integuments had been fastened to the corpse , still adllered .
Tlle inner part of this mask was sycamore wood , its outside being shaped , by rzeals of a thick coat of plaster , in bas-relief , into the form of a face , the surface of which seemed to have been stain ( l with natural colours , which time had now considerably blended and obscured .
Having , holvvever , with Ddr .
SYMMONS'S leave , taken this mask , together with some other very interesting pieces of his rnummyn with me to Gottingen , I there steeped it in warm water , and carefully separated all the parts of it .
By this means WIDCJCXCIV .
13 b I discovered the variousfraaldulent arttfices that had been prac tised itl the construction of this mask : the wooden part was evidently a piece of the front of the sarcophagus of the mummy of a young person ; and ita order to convert its alto-relievo into the basso-relievo of the usual cotton mask of a mummy , plaster hadl been applied on each side of the nose S after which papEr had beeil iageniously Ypasted over the whole face , and lastly , this paper had been stained with the colours generally observed on mummi-es .
The small SLOANIAN mummy in the Museum had probably been plepared nearly in the same manner .
That the deception has in both cases been very industriously executed , appears from t-hisX thawt , as far as I can learrl , no one has observed it before , although both these pieces have no doubt been often seen , ancll examined lie persons conversant writh these matters .
Sorne other suspicious cirousnstances ila the mummies I examined in London were more evident .
For instance , the coffins of sycamore wood fastened together with iron nailsX in which the sulall mummies of Dr. GARTHSHORE Dr. LETTSQ .
M , and Sir W. HAMILTON , were cotltained , had most probably been recently constructed of pieces of decayed sarcophagi of ancient mummies .
The little SLOANIAN mummy everl lay in a box in the form of a sarcophagus , nvhich was made of a -dark-brown hard wood , totally diSerent from the sycamol^e , and manifestly of modern construction .
How many other artificiaI restorations and deceptions may have been practised in the several mummies which have been brought into EuropeS which have never been suspectedS and may perhaps never be detected , may well be admitted , w1 &gt; A ; u-3tl we consider how imperfect we are as yet in our knowledge of thw branch of Egyptian archrology , which , as a specificSpro blem few have hitherto treated with the critical acumen-it s-eems to desert .
A11 the knowledge we have concerning the matlner of preZ paring mummies is deriered from two sources , YiZ .
( a3 the examination of the mummies themselves ; and -( b ) two classical passages in HERODOTU s and DIO : E)ORUS SICULUS ; STRABO and other ancient authors having mentioned mummies only incidentally , an(l in rrery few words .
But unfortunately these two classical passages do not ill the least agree with the state of the mummies brought into Europe , which arew in general of tWQ sorts , viz. ( a ) the hard compact ones , wholly endued with rosin , which hence can be knocked into pieces ; ( b ) the soft ones , ^which yield to the pressure of the hand , and are prepared with very little rosin , and often none at all , zubose loose bandages may be wound offa and which contain in their cavities scarce any thing but a vegetable mould and particularly no idol whatever as far as I have bee able to learn .
Tlle front part of the latter is usually covered with a painted , and , at times , gilt mask of cotton cloth v and as they appear more variegated than the former and have no rosin in them yielding drugs for trafficn they are brought ill muchgreater numbers , and may be seen in many collections in Europe in a more perfect state than the former , though often rendered so by restor-ation .
The former ?
on the contrary , have for this very reason relmained most of them in the hands of druggists .
Of this , -vis .
the former sort , were the two in the dispensary of CRUSIUS at Breslau , which GRYPHIUS described in the year 1662 , and particularly the very valuable body of a mummtr which was capened by the apothecary HERTZOG , at Gotha , in z71S , and in which more idols , beetles , frogs ( as symbols of fertility ) , nilonzeters , &amp;c. were found than was ever , to the best of my knowledge , known to have been contained ill any other muminy wlla.teser .
But HERODOTUS , that very inquisiz .
iv awad credfuloas hlstorian ( as one of the most learned and judicious antiquaries ill Engiand leas lla-nel him ) , does not so much as mention either of t-llese sorts of mumuaies l llor does he speak of the rosin , or painted measks , although he expressly describes such pairltee illteguments-oll t]ae Athiopiall mulumies .
DIOD-ORUS is equally silent as to the rosln , and the painted covering ; wllilst on the other hand he advances soul very strange assertions , such as that the skill of the embalmers exteilded so far as perfectly to preserve the lineaments of the face , although the faces of mummies of l)oth sorts be generally covered with cotton cloth to the thickness of nearly a nans hand.* These authors , although they have both been in Egypt , had probably t1zeir illtelligeIlce merely from hearsay X for , oll the other laand , It would no doubt be too paradoxical to assert , that all the mummies NZeare now acquainted with have been made sitzce the datts of DIODORUS , and that none of those desclibed by laim and by HERODOTUS should have reached our time .
Count CAYLUS rather conjectures , that no mtlmrnies ssrere made since the conquest of Egypt by the Romans ( ab ?
ut the time of DIODORUS ) , but in this he is manifestly misteaken , since we learn from St. AUGUSTIN that so low down as his own times ( viz. in the first half of the fifth century ) munlmies were certa-inly made in Egypt .
But that among the malmmies that now existS especially the hard ones , which are elltirely done over-with rosin , there cannot but be many of a much greater antIquity , will , among other proofs , appear particularly from the style of workmanship of several of the little idols contairaed in them .
At least it may be admitted , vzithout much hesitation , that the mummies we now possess , which dier so much in their preparation a1l &gt; l characteristic structure , are at least of a period including one thousand years .
13ut it vere much to be wished that we mightllave certain criteria , to determzze ze1ith some accuracy the precise age of any particular mtltnmy that tnny happen to fall into our hands .
Before7 howevern we can expect to obtain this object , the two folloxvingpia desideria must first be accomplished , rriz .
( A ) A more accurate determination of the rarivus , so strikingly dyerent , and yet as strikitlgly characteristic national configurations in the monuments of the Egyptian arts , together with a detertnination of the periods in which those monuments were produced , and the causes of their remarkable differences .
( B ) A very careful technical examination of the characteristic forms of the several skulls of mummies we have hitherto met srrith7 together svit-h an accurate comparison of those skulls with the lllonuments abovenlentiolled .
This , at least , I consider as the surest method of solving the problem S being perstladed that , especially after what has just now been said of the fraudulent restorations , it can hardly be * AVGUST .
SeIm 361 , ( Opzr .
T. Y. p. 98I .
) expected that we should be able to draw ally just inferences from the mere style , and the contents of the painted integuments of the mummies ve may have opportunities to examirze .
Still less can we infer aug}t from the sculpture or paintings on the sarcophagi , as to the contents of the mummies sent us into Europe , MAILLET having about sixty or seventy years ago detected the fraud of the Arabs , who he says are in the practice of breaking in pieces the mummies cotltained in the catacombs in the more orllamented sarcophagi , for the sake of the idols they expect to find in them of replacing them with tolerably preserved common painted rnummies ( such as I have called soft ) , and thus o5ering them for sale .
Tlae osteological properties which I have ha(l opportunities to observe in the skulls of mummies , are most of tTem mentioned in the description of my collection of the skulls of different llations above quoted , and will , I hopeS proure useful to others for further comparisons .
As to the dyerent natiolaal physiognornies of the ancient Egyptiarls , I shall here advert\#162 ; my to what , in my physiological study of the varieties in the llulnan species , I have deducetl from my comparisons of these skulls with the artificial monuments follnd in Egypt .
For I am wholly at a loss to conceive how learned !
writers , not onlyl of the stamp of the -author of the Rerherches sir les Et , Syptiens ; S but even profes:@ional antiquaries , such as WINKELMANNNVP and the author of the RecherclJes sir I9Qriglne des Arts de la Grecet could ascribe to the artificial monuments found in Egypt one common chnan T I. p. 237 t In his description des Pierres gravees de Stosch p. IO , and in other works of his t T. Ip 3t racter of national physiognomy , and define the same in a few lines in the most decided and peremptory manner .
It appears to lue that we must adopt at least three principal varieties in the national physiognomy of the arlcient Egyptians ; which , like all the varieties in the human species , pre no doubt often blended together , so as to produce various shadesa but from which the truev if I may so call it , ideal archetype may however be distinguished , by unequivocal properties , to nvhich the endless smaller deviations inindividuals may , without any forced construction , be ultirrlately recluced .
These appear to me to be , 1 .
the Ethiopian cast , 2 .
the one approaching to the Hineloo , and , .
the mixed , partaking in a mallner of both the former .
The first is chiefly distinguished by the prominent maxzll , turgid lips , broad flat nose , and protruding eye-balls , such as VOLNEY finds the Copts at present ; * such , according towhis description , and the best figures given by NORDEN , is the coulatenance of the Sphinx ; such were , according to the well known passage in SIERODOTUS on the origirl of the Colchians9 everl the Egyptiarls of his time a and thWls hath Luc IAN likewise represented a young Egyptian at Rome.t ( See Tab. XY I. fig. 1 .
) The secorld , or the Hindoo castJ differs toto calo from the above , as we may convillce -otlrselves by the inspection of other Egyptian monumeiats .
It is characterized by a long slender nose , lozg and thin eyel-ids , which run upwards from the top of the nose towards the temples ears placed high on the headS O a short and very thin bodily structure , $ and very long shanksf As an ideal of this form , I shall only adduce t1 je painted fernale figure upon theback of the sarcophagus of Capt. LETHIEULL IER'S mummy in the British MuselWlm , which has been engraved by VIRTUE , and which most strikingly agrees with the unequiw vocal natioIzal form of the Hindc os , w5ach , especially in England , is so often to be seen upon Indian paintings .
( See fig. 2 .
) The third sort of Egyptian configuration is not similar to e-ither of the preceding ones , but seetns to partake something of both , which must have been oving to the modifications produced by local circumstances in a foreign climate .
Tlais is characterizesi by a pecullar turgid habit , flabby cheeks , a short chin , large prominent eyes , and rather a plump make Xn the person.+ This , as may llatllrally be expected , is the structure most frequently to be met with .
( See fige Ss )I thought this little digression the less intrusive , as it appears to me that it may on the one hand proste usefulS not only to : wards illustrating the history of the origin and descent of the llations that were transplanted into F , gypt , and have acquired the general denomillation of Egyptians , but also for the determination of the different periods of the slyle of the arfs of the anczent }Ngyptians , collcerning which we have as yet very imperfect ideas ; whilst orl the other band , it might lead to much accurate informsltion as to matter of fact , many very eminent authors } &gt; ving given the 1m0St In ; ongruous representatiEolls of the Egyptian national character , su-ch as WINKELAIANN for mere defiect ln the drawillc &lt; ; no doubt arl excWllent e}:pe(litlt this , to get rid of d:ffi^ culties in the investigation of national sarieric-s , * Cnmpare with this Ax RIAN 'S represetation of the Ilaclians , Rcr .
Indicar .
L. , 54z .
f Compaie ACH1LLS STAPrIUS E ?
otic .
L. iii .
P. I77 .
instarlce , ^tlao producec !
a svretched figure of a painted rnaslz3 nvithout any character whatever , engraved in BEC-ER'S Thesaur .
BrandenSo .
rS .
II I. p. 402 , as one of the -most characteristic repre -sentations of the form of the ancient Egyptians a and svlao , as well as several others , will have this form to be siznilar to that of the Chinese , an assertion\VhiCtl , after having had oppet^ztunities to compare twentys one iiVilig Chinese at Ansterdam , a11tl having si-nce seen in London aloundance of ancient Egyp tian monulueIlts , especially in the British Museum , and the co-lections of MUr .
rrowNLeY , Alr .
KNIGI-IT , and 112 lWarquis of I2AN : D5DOX7VN , laaS ever appeared to zue incoznprehensible .
lNdlopting , as I think it conformable to nature , five races of the 11umatl species ) viz. 1 .
the Caucasian C e. the Mollgolian ; g. the MCalaSr ; 4 .
the Ethiopian ; .
the Americanv I think the Egyptians will find their place between the Caucasicln and the Ethiopiall , but that they differ from none more than from the Moagolian , to which the Chinese beloIzg .
Tltls far concerning the bodies of the Egypti-alzs prepared into mulalmies .
I shall con-clude with some observations oll the probable meanil , and destilaation of the dirninutive mummiesn hicll hasle given rise to the present inquiry .
They certainly are not what they have lollg , I believe , universally been taken for , namely , mummies of small clliltlren and embryos .
Some of them are the real mummies of Ibisesn such as the one of Dr. LElTSOM , and one of the two in the HAM IL TON IAN GO11eCtiOn , ill the LE3ritish MuseumX which had by decay been so far laid open as to allow me plaialy to diStill guish in it the bill of an Ibis9 and other bones of a bird .
* See , for example , M. TH R. BRUN NIC EI'S Dyrenes l-Estoric o^ ]Dyre-Sbzmlilg-esx , aldi Unitersitetut3 Aratlr-Tbeater .
T. I. p. s. These sacred birds , it is well knourn , wrere usually , after llav ing been swathed round with cotton liandages , placed ill eartllen urns , and deposited in the catacombs appropriated to the Ibises .
Sotnetitnes , without being stuck into an urnn they were prepared in the form of a puppet , yet so that the head a-ld bill projected at the top , one of this sort Ilas been figured by Count CAYLUS .
And thirdly , the whole bird was frequetltly vrapped up in this puppet form , and clressed ill a Inask , liLae one of the hurnan species .
But as the two others , sTiz .
Dr. GARTHSHORE)S and the SLOASNIAN , wwere externally perfectly similar to the abovementioned , I aln 1ed to conjecture ( for in the total want of informcation from the cancients concerning these small mullamies we must however fix upon some coq , ; ecture ) , that the manufacturers of mummiesn who made them for sale , in order to save themselves the trouble of preparing cl bird took a bonej or other solid part of a decayed tnutnmy , or indeed any thing that was rlearest at iland , dressed it up as the muturny of all Ifbis , and tendered it for sale .
Whoever recollects what a despicable set theEgyptiatl priests were , even ill the time of STRABO , and llow the whole religious worship of the Egyptians was then already faiVen iiato decay , will not thirlk this conjecture too grattblitous , or void of probability .
Or shall we rather consider these puppets as tXe meenento mori whiclll it is sell known the Egyt-i.-*ns wsere zo-{t ; to introduce av table in their meals and festivals .
Hao.}soaUs saysn that little wooden images were uslt aly carlieiii alzn.}t for this purpose , and I do actuclXly recol]ect }2aving seetl su &lt; small wooden representations of mumtnies in the Brit ; isl-l 1Nu stum .
LUCIAN also relates , as an eye witness , that in his time the dead bodies themselves were introduced at table .
It is easy to conceive how , during the long interval of near 700 years , before the transition took place from the first simple idea to this disgusting practice , such little mummies may at some period or other have formed the intermediate step .
The author of the Recherctes sir les Egyptiens seems unwilling to admit that real mummies had ever beenSintroduced al ; table : but his scepticism appears to rn@ to be no better founded than the contrary assertion of one of the most eminent physiclans of the last century , CASP .
HOFFMANN , who in his once classical work dfe Medicamentis Of icznalibus , in the section of the Egyptian mummies , gravely relates , that ila Lower Saxony no feast was ever given vi ithout the intr.oduction of a mulntny .
And strange as this qui pro quo between an Egyptian corpse and a particular kind of Brunswilck strong beer must appear , it is however a fact that several more modern writers upon mummies have actllally copied it out into their workts with implicit confidence .
* P. 64z .
( A Saxonibus audivis nulletn apud ipsos convivium transigi posse , sirlc 6C nummei , uti appellant .
Ita olim sine lasere , et body Incli sine asa fcetidd nihil co 6 medunt .
H ; ncn uwui in gptum eulst affer-re secum solent talia cadaser ; z4 " t c*s

