]\gt ; Drs. J. Hopkinson and E. Hopkinson .
[ Apr. 15 , IL ' ' Electric Machines.\mdash ; Preliminary Notice By JOHN HOPXINSON , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and EDWARD HOPKINSON , D.Sc .
Received Apri13 , 1886 .
omitting the inductive eflects of the current in the armature itself , all the properties of a dynamo machine are most conveniently deduced from a statement of the relation between the magnetic field and the magnetising force required to produce that field .
This relation given , ib is easy to deduce what the result will be in all employments of the machine , also the result of varying the winding of the machine in armature or magnets .
The magnetic field may be expressed algebraically as a function of the magnetising force , or more conveniently by a curve Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers April , 1879 , p. 246 ) .
Amongst the empirical formulae which have been proposed to express the electromotive force of dynamo machines in terms of the currents around the magnets , we may mention that known as Frohlich 's , where , being ' the electromotive force of the machine at a given speed , the exciting current , and and constants .
For some machines this hyperbola is said to express observed results fairly accurately .
In our experience it does not sufficiently approximate to a straight line in the part of the curve near the origin , and gives too high results for large values of One purpose of the present investigation is to give an approximately complete construction of the characteristic curve of a dynamo of given form from the ordinary laws of eIectromagnetism and the known properties of iron .
Let be the number of convolutions on the magnets , the current round the magnets , the mean length of the lines of force in the iron of the armature , the area of section of iron in the armature , the distance from iron of armature to iron of pole pieces , the area of the magnetic field in which the wires move corrected for its extension round the edge of the pole pieces , the total length of the magnet cores , the area of the magnet cores , the mean length of lines of force in the yoke connecting the limbs in machines of the type on which we have principally experimented , the area of section of the yoke , the mean length of the lines of force in each pole piece , the mean area of section of pole piece , I the total induction through the armature , when no current passes in the armature , and the total induction in the magnet cores ; and finally let the relation between the magnetic force and induction ( a ) ( vide Thomson , " " Electrostatics and Magnetism 1886 .
] Dynamo-Eleetrie Machines .
327 p. 397 , and Maxwell , " " Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism vol. u , p. 24 ) be represented by the equation , then the characteristic curve is\mdash ; .
If the relation between and be given in the form of a curve , this formula indicates at once a perfectly simple graphical construction for the characteristic .
Taking the curve of magnetisation determined by one of us for wrought iron , and constructing a characteristic in this way , we have obtained a theoretical curve which agrees over a long range with the actual resuIts of observation on a dynamo machine more closely than any empirical formula with which we are acquainted .
To determine , a wire was taken once round the middle of one magnet and connected to a ballistic galvanometer , a known current was then either suddenly passed round the magnets or short circuited , elongation of the galvanometer being noted .
A similar observation was made with the same CUl'rent , the galvanometer being connected to a single convoIution of the al'mature in the plane of commutation .
The ratio of the two eIongations is the of The distribution of the waste field ) I was roughly ascertained in a similar manner .
The currents in the fixed coils round the magnets are not the only magnetising forces applied in a dynamo machine .
The currents in the moving coils of the have also their effect upon the resultant field .
In well-constructed machines the effect of the latter is reduced to a minimum , but it can be by no means neglected .
This introdnces a second independent variable , , the current in the armature .
The eflect of the current in the armature depends the lead given to the brushes .
Denote this by , which we may also legard as an independent iable , as it is subject to arbitrary adjustment .
If be the characteristic curve when no current passes through the armature , then , where is the number of convolutions in the armature .
Here we omit the comparatively unimportant portion of the magnetic force in the core of the armature and the pole pieces .
From this formula it is not difficult to deduce a geometrical uction for the characteristic surface vide " " Practical Applications of Electricity Lectures delivered at the Institute of Civil gineers , 1882-83 , p. 98 ) .
The 328 Dynamo-Electric nraehines .
[ Apr. 15 , equation may be thus expressed in words , if be such that the coils at commutation embrace the whole or nearly the whole induction .
The effict of the ctlrrent in the armature upon the difference of potential between the brushes of any machine , is the same as that of an addition to the resistance of the armature proportional to the lead of the brushes , and to the ratio of the waste field to the total field , combined with that of taking the main current times round the magnets in a direction opposite to the current .
Many consequences can be deduced , of which we may notice the following : a series lvound dynamo is equal to , and if } ) increased beyond a certain point , I must attain a maximum and then diminish ; this has been frequently obserwed .
We now see that it depends upon the existence of a waste field .
Secondly , let the coils of the magnets be entirely disconnected , and let be the negative : if the armature be short cuited through a small resistance and be run at a sufficient speed , a large current may be produced in the armature .
This latter deduction we have verified by direct experiment .
The efficiency of the type of dynamo machine upon which the iments before indicated have been made , has been accurately determined by the device of coupling two similar machines , both mechanically and electrically , so that one should aot as a generator of electricity , driving the other electrically , whilst the latter acted as a motor driving the former mechanically ; the loss of power required to keep the whole combination in movement being determined by direct dynamometric measurement , and the power passing electrically from the one machine to the other being measured by ordinary electrical appliances .
The whole of the experiments were carried out at the works of Messrs. Mather and Platt , to whom we are indebted for the exceptional opportunities we have enjoyed of putting theoretical conclusions to the test of experiment on an engineering scale .
The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , May 6th .

