Luminosity of Rare Earths when heated by Cathode Rays .
115 \#171 ; On the Luminosity of the Rare Earths when heated Vacuo by means of Cathode Rays " By A. A. Campbell Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , E.R.S. Received March 20 , \#151 ; Read April 27 , 1899 .
For incandescent gas mantles , it is found that certain definite mixtures of the rare earths are necessary , in order to obtain the maximum luminosity .
For instance , in the ordinary Bunsen gas flame , a mantle consisting of pure thorium oxide , or of pure cerium oxide , will only give about one-eleventh of the light that is given by a mantle composed of 99 per cent , of thorium oxide , and 1 per cent , of cerium oxide , which is the mixture at present used by the Welsbaeh Com-pany .
In order to explain this remarkable fact , several different and somewhat contradictory theories have been propounded , one of which implies catalytic or other chemical action between the oxides and the constituents of the Bunsen flame .
In order to investigate this question , it is obviously important to note the behaviour of the rare earths at high temperatures without contact with any flame , and endeavours have already been made to effect this by heating the oxides in specially constructed furnaces .
Under these conditions , only very minute differences could be detected in the amount of light given by different oxides and mixtures , but it appears doubtful whether the very high temperature of the Bunsen flame was really attained .
It has occurred to the writer , that very high incandescence could be produced by enclosing mantles in a vacuum tube , and subjecting them to bombardment by means of cathode rays , when the mantles would not be in contact with anything except the cathode rays themselves , and the comparatively small amount of residual gas that remains in the tube at the requisite high degree of exhaustion .
Since the date of Sir William Crookes 's early researches , it has been known that a very high temperature could be produced in a body placed at the focus of the convergent rays from a concave cathode .
In this manner Crookes melted platinum and glass , and brought carbon wool to bright incandescence .
The writer has made many experiments on this subject , using instead of the interrupted continuous currents employed by previous investigators , alternating electric currents , which appear to have many advantages for this purpose .
At the Royal Institution , in February , 1898 , the writer showed that very brilliant incandescence could be obtained for a short time in a small block of lime , placed in a suitably exhausted tube midway between two concave electrodes , connected to an alternating electric supply at about 6000 volts pressure , and in June , 1898 , at the Royal K 2 116 Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton .
On Luminosity Society , he exhibited in action a similar arrangement , but with the block of lime replaced by a flat plate of thorium oxide .
In this case the concave electrodes were of such a curvature and were placed so far apart , that the two sides of the thorium plate in each case intersected the diverging cone of cathode rays .
Under these conditions nearly a square inch of the thoria surface on each side of the plate became highly incandescent , and a very powerful light was obtained for some minutes at a time , but only at a critical and highly unstable degree of vacuum .
The writer has now applied this method to the investigation of the comparative luminosity of different mixtures of the rare earths .
One form of the tube employed was constructed as shown in the above figure , where C , C* are two spherically concave discs of aluminium 1T25 inches diameter , and 6 inches radius of curvature .
These electrodes are placed about 7 inches apart , and were connected to the secondary terminals of a 10-inch Kuhmkorff coil , the primary of which was supplied through a variable resistance , with alternating electric current at 100 volts pressure from the main .
The tube was connected through a drying tube , containing phosphorus pentoxide , to a pair of Toepler pumps , and also to a McLeod gauge .
The mantle M M to be experimented upon , was mounted on a platinum wire frame and placed between the two electrodes , so that as the electric current alternated , and each electrode became in turn cathode , the mantle was subjected on alternate sides to cathode ray bombardment .
The curvature of the electrodes was such as to give almost parallel beams of cathode rays , so that a considerable ring of the Bare Earths when heated in Vacuo by Cathode Bays .
117 shaped , and slightly hollow , area on each side of the mantle was subjected to the rays , and could be brought to high incandescence .
A preliminary experiment was made with a mantle of asbestos , powdered over in patches with pure thorium oxide .
With this it was found that at a suitable degree of exhaustion , the patches of thoria became brilliantly incandescent , with an intensity of cathode rays that made the asbestos barely red hot .
Experiments were next made with mantles consisting entirely of thoria and ceria , both separately , and mixed in different proportions .
These mantles were prepared in a similar manner to the Welsbach incandescent gas mantles , by saturating a carefully purified cotton fabric with ammonium nitrate of thorium and cerium , and then burning out the cotton .
Very thick and closely woven cotton lamp wick , freed from foreign matter by treatment with caustic soda , hydrochloric acid , and ammonia , was employed in place of the thin fabric usually used , so that the resulting mantle after burning out the cotton , was very close in texture , and fully 0*2 inch thick .
This was found necessary , as otherwise some of the cathode rays passed through the mantle and melted the opposite aluminium electrode .
In order to obtain accurate comparisons between pure oxides and different mixtures , the mantles were made in patchwork , each complete mantle being made up of two or four sections , separately impregnated with different solutions , and then sewn together with impregnated cotton before being burnt .
The mantles were so mounted in the vacuum tube that the cathode rays impinged equally upon the portions that consisted of different mixtures , so that an equal amount of energy was imparted to each sample .
With a compound mantle prepared in this way , composed one-half of pure thorium oxide , and the other half of a mixture of 99 per cent , thorium oxide plus 1 per cent , of cerium oxide , it wap found after exhaustion that on starting the cathode discharge the thoria plus ceria heated up to incandescence more rapidly , and , on stopping the discharge , cooled more rapidly than the pure thoria .
Further , when at full incandescence and observed through a dark glass , the thoria plus ceria was slightly more luminous than the pure thoria , though the difference was very small , probably not more than 5 per cent. Owing to the difficulty of maintaining a constant vacuum , accurate photo-metrical measurements were not possible , but the amount of light under favourable conditions was roughly estimated at , at least , 150-candle power per square inch of incandescent surface , this being obtained with an expenditure of electrical energy in the secondary circuit at about 8,000 volts pressure of approximately 1 watt per candle .
The amount of exhaustion suited to give the best results varied with the dimensions of the tube and the conditions mentioned 118 Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton .
On Luminosity below , but was approximately about 0*00005 atmosphere , the maximum luminosity being obtained when the dark spaces of the two cathodes just crossed at the centre of the bulb .
Owing to the large amount of gas occluded by the mantle , a proper degree of permanent exhaustion was very difficult to arrive at , and required continuous pumping for many hours with the cathode rays turned on at intervals .
Even then the conditions of maximum luminosity were exceedingly unstable , owing to the further liberation of occluded gas on the one hand , and on the other to the rapid increase in the degree of exhaustion owing to absorption of the residual gas by the electrodes .
That such absorption probably took place in the aluminium electrodes , and not in the mantle , was demonstrated by other experiments with a tube in which there was no mantle , but only two electrodes of aluminium wire .
After the cathode rays had been allowed to bombard the mantle for a short time , the latter was found to have become discoloured where bombarded .
That portion which was composed of pure thoria became dark blue , while the thoria plus ceria became brown .
This effect , which appears to be analogous to those observed by Goldstein with lithium chloride and sodium chloride , * seems to be due to a partial reduction of the oxides by the cathode rays .
The admission of a very minute quantity of air to the tube while the cathode rays are acting on the mantle , and the latter is in parts incandescent , causes the discoloration to disappear instantaneously on the incandescent , but not upon the cool portions , probably by re-oxidation of the partially reduced oxides , while the discoloration also slowly vanishes in a day or two with the mantle cold if air at ordinary atmospheric pressure is admitted to the tube .
By continuing to bombard the mantle with cathode rays , and alternately allowing the vacuum to increase and letting in small quantities of air , the discoloration can be made to appear and to disappear over and over again as often as desired .
At the moment of .
admitting the air , the amount of light was found momentarily to increase , this being probably due to the increased temperature due to the re-oxidation of the partially reduced oxides .
After repeating this process of letting in small quantities of air , and allowing them to be absorbed , several times , it was found that the degree of exhaustion which gave the maximum incandescence had altered from 0*000047 to 0*000112 atmosphere , as measured by the McLeod gauge .
Similar effects were obtained with a tube containing no mantle , but only aluminium wire electrodes , the inference being that some change takes place in the residual gas which renders it less conducting .
At a higher degree of exhaustion than that which produced incandescence of the mantle , the pure thoria was found to fluoresce blue , * * Wied .
Ann. , ' 1895 , No. 54 , p. 371 .
of the Rare Earths when heated in Vacuo by Cathode Rays .
119 and the thoria plus ceria with a yellowish light .
The fluorescence in each case was much less bright when the oxides were white than when they had become discoloured by previous bombardment .
With very high exhaustions the thoria plus ceria fluoresced the more brightly ; at lower exhaustions the pure thoria gave the brighter fluorescence .
On the suggestion of Mr. W. Mackean , the tube was pumped up to a very high vacuum and oxygen admitted .
A similar experiment was made with hydrogen , the tube being completely filled with the gas , and then pumped to the proper degree of exhaustion .
Though at low exhaustions these gases gave distinctive appearances to the discharge in the tube , no difference in the behaviour of the mantles with them and with air could be detected when once the vacuum reached the degree required for producing incandescence of the mantle .
Further experiments were made with a similar tube containing a compound mantle made up of four sections , composed as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) pure ceria , ( 2 ) pure thoria , ( 3 ) 50 per cent , thoria 50 per cent , ceria , ( 4 ) 99 per cent , thoria 1 per cent , ceria .
With an intensity of cathode rays that gave a brilliant light with Nos. 2 and 4 , Nos. 1 and 3 were found to give practically no light , becoming barely red hot ; while , as before , No. 4 was found to give slightly more light than No. 2 , and to heat up more rapidly and cool more rapidly than the latter .
These experiments show that thoria and ceria , both alone and mixed , behave quite differently when heated by cathode ray bombardment than when heated in a Bunsen flame .
In the latter , 99 per cent , thoria plus 1 per cent , ceria gives many times as much light as pure thoria alone , while , when incandesced by cathode rays of equal intensity , the difference , though in a similar direction , is exceedingly small .
Again , in the flame pure ceria gives just about the same amount of light as pure thoria , while with a given intensity of cathode ray bombardment thoria gives a brilliant light , while ceria gives practically none .
In arriving at any finally satisfactory theory of the luminescent properties of the rare earths , these results with cathode rays , which differ materially from those obtained by other methods of heating , will require to be taken into account .
I am indebted to the courtesy of the Welsbach Incandescent Gas Light Company for the samples of the rare earths with which the above investigations were made ; also to the assistance of Mr. J. C. M. Stanton and Mr. H. Tyson Wolff in carrying out the experiments .

