II .
" On the Mathematical Theory of Stream-lines , especially those with four Foci and upwards .
" By WILLIAM JOIIN MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E. , LL. D. , F.R.SS .
Lond. and Edinb .
, &amp;c. Received January 1 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) A Stream-line is the line that is traced by a particle in a current of fluid .
In a steady current each individual stream-line preserves its figure and position unchanged , and marks the track of a filament or continuous series of particles that follow each other .
The motions in different parts of a steady current may be represented to the eye and to the mind by means of a group of stream-lines .
Stream-lines are important in connexion with naval architecture ; for the curves which the particles of water describe relatively to a ship , in moving past her , are stream-lines ; and if the figure of a ship is such that the particles of water glide smoothly over her skin , that figure is a streamline surface , being a surface which contains an indefinite number of stream-lines .
The author in a previous paper proposed to call such stream-lines Nreoids ; that is , ship-shape lines .
The author refers to previous investigations relating to stream-lines , and especially to those of Mr. Stokes , in the Cambridge Transactions for 1842 and 1850 , on the " Motion of a Liquid past a Solid , " and of Dr. H-oppe , on the " Stream-lines generated by a Sphere , " in the Quarterly Journal of Mathematics for 1856 , and to his own previous papers on " Plane Waterlines in Two Dimensions , " in the Philosophical Transactions for 1864 , and on " Stream-lines , " in the Philosophical Magazine for that year .
iHe states that all the neoid or ship-shape stream-lines whose properties have hitherto been investigated in detail are either unifocal or bifocal ; that is to say , they may be conceived to be generated by the combination of a uniform progressive motion , with another motion consisting in a divergence of the particles from a certain point or focus , followed by a convergence either towards the same point or towards a second point .
Those which are 207 continuous closed curves when unifocal are circular , and when bifocal are blunt-ended ovals , in which the length may exceed the breadth in any giveil proportions .
To obtain a unifocal or bifocal neoid resembling a longitudinal line of a ship with sharp ends , it is necessary to take a part only of , stream-line , and then there is discontinuity of form and of motion at each of the two ends of that line .
The author states that the occasion of the investigation described in the present paper was the communication to him by Mr. William Froude of some results of experiments of his on the resistance of model boats , of lengths ranging from three to twelve feet .
A summary of those results is printed at the end of a Report to the British Association on the " State of Existing Knowledge of the Qualities of Ships .
" In each case two models were compared together of equal displacement and equal length ; the water-line of one was a wave-line with fine sharp enlds , that of the other had blunt rounded ends , each joined to the midship body by a slightly hollow neck-a form suggested , Mr. Froude states , by the appearance of water-birds when swimming .
At low velocities , the resistance of the sharp-ended boat was the smaller ; at a certain velocity , bearing a definite relation to the length of the model , the resistances became equal , and at higher velocities the round-ended model had a rapidly increasing advantage over the sharpended model .
Hence it appeared to the author to be desirable to investigate the mathematical properties of stream-lines resembling the water-lines of Mr. Froude 's bird-like models ; and he has found that endless varieties of such forms , all closed curves free from discontinuity of form and of motion , may be obtained by usingfour foci instead of two .
They may be called from this property quadrifocal stream-lines , or , from the idea that suggested such shapes to Mr. Froude , cycno'ds ; that is , swan-like lines* .
Those lines are not to be confounded with the lines of a yacht having at a distance the appearance of a swan , which was designed and built some years ago by Mr. Peacock , for the figure of that vessel is simply oval .
The paper contains four chapters .
The first three are mainly cinematical and geometrical , and relate to the forms of stream-line surfaces in two and in three dimensions , especially those with more than one pair of foci and surfaces of revolution , to the methods of constructing graphically and without calculation , by means of processes first applied to lines of magnetic force by Mr. Clerk Maxwell , the traces of such surfaces , which methods are exemplified by diagrams drawn to scale , and to the motions of the particles of liquid past those surfaces .
The fourth chapter is dynamical : it treats of the momentum and of the energy of the disturbance in the liquid , caused by the progressive motion of a solid that is bounded by a ship-shape stream-line surface of any figure whatsoever ; of the ratio borne by the total energy of the disturbance in the liquid to that of the disturbing body when that body displaces a mass of liquid equal to its own mas , K UVKvoCtBS .
, 208 [ Feb. 1%0 which ratio ranges in different cases from to I ; of the acceleration and retardation of ships as affected by the disturbance in the water , and especially of the use of experiments on the retardation of ships in finding their resistance ; and of the disturbances of pressure which accompany the disturbances of motion in the liquid .
Up to this point the dynamical principles arrived at in the fourth chapter are certain and exact , like the geometrical and cinematic principles in the three preceding chapters .
The results obtained in the remainder of the fourth chapter are in some respects approximate and conjectural , and are to a great extent designed to suggest plans for future experiments , and rules for their reduction .
These results relate to the disturbances of level which accompany the disturbances of motion when the liquid has a free upper surface , to the waves which originate in those disturbances of level , and the action of those waves in dispersing energy and so causing resistance to the motion of the vessel , to friction , or skin-resistance , and the " wake " or following current which that kind of resistance causes the disturbing solid body to drag behind it , and to the action of propelling instruments in overcoming different kinds of resistance .
The resistance caused by viscosity is not treated of , because its laws have been completely investigated by Mr. Stokes , and because for bodies of the size , of ships , and moving at their ordinary velocities , that kind of resistance is inconsiderable compared with skin-resistance and wave-resistance .
The resistance caused by discontinuity of figure is stated to be analogous in its effects to friction , but it is not investigated in detail , because ships ought not to be built of discontinuous ( commonly called " unfair " ) figures .
SUPPLEM : ENT .
Received January 8 , 1870 .
The allthor in the first place calls attention to the agreement between the position of the points at which there is no disturbance of the pressure on the surface of a sphere , as deduced from Dr. Hoppe 's investigation , published in 1856 ( Quarterly Journal of Mathematics ) , and on the surface of a short vertical cylinder with a flat bottom , as determined by the experiments of the Rev. E. L. Berthon before 1850 ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. v. 1850 ; also Transactions of the Society of Engineers , 6th December , 1869 ) .
The theoretical value of the angular distance of those points from the foremost pole of the sphere is sin-l 3=41 ? ?
49 ' ; the value deduced from experiment is 41 ? ?
30 ' .
The author then adds some remarks on a suggestion made by AMr William Froude , that the wave-resistance of a ship is diminished when two series of waves originating at different points of her surface partially neutralize each other by interference ; and states that , with regard to this and many other questions of the resistance of vessels , a great advancement of knowledge is to be expected from the publication in detail of the results of experiments on which Mr. Froude has long beenr engaged .

