]\gt ; Prof. .
B. Lewes .
The Cause of Luminosity November 2 , the flow was never less than 3,000 millions per day , and on November 2 it reached 4,240 millions .
17th the flow was millions , and on the 18th , 4,165 It then gradually decreased to 1,845 millions on the day sample was drawn .
Thus the Thames basin had been thoroughly washed out immediately before the time November sample was taken .
There had previously been iioods after the 5th of January in that year .
This condition affords a fairly satisfactory nation of the yielded by this sample .
IIL ' ' The Cause of Luminosity in the Flames of Gases By B. LEWES , Professor of the Royal Naval College , Greenwich .
Professor THORPE , F.R.S. Beceived February In a paper read before the Chemical Society in 189.3 , I that in inner non-luminous zone of a flame of ordinary gas , the hydrocarbo1ls originally present in the gas , and ethylene , butylene , benzene , methane , and ethane , became the baking action of the walls of flame between which they into acetylene , and that at the moment when luminosity over 80 per cent. of the total unsaturated hydrocarbons consisted of this compound .
The presence of acetylene at the point where luminosity naturally suggested that it was in some way due to actions in the acetylene played the principal part\mdash ; either that it split up carbon and hydrogen under the influence of heat , and so supplied flame with the solid particles necessary , according to Sir Davy 's theory of the cause of luminosity , or else by its it formed the dense vapours required by Dr. E. Frankland 's recent hypothesis .
In order to elucidate this point , I carried out the long experiments upon the action of heat upon flowing ethylene and hydrocarbons , which formed the subject of communications Royal Society in 1893 and early this year , in which I whilst flowing through a heated area ( the temperature of between 80 and ethylene decomposed according equation and that the acetylene then polymerised into a large complex hydrocarbons , amongst which benzene and conspicuous , whilst at temperatures above C. , no in the Flames of Hydrocar.bon Gases .
place , but the acetylene formed from the ethylene decomposed into carbon and hydrogen , whilst the methane , which up to temperature had been but little affected , decomposed into this fresh supply of acetylene once broke up to carbon and so that at temperatures above 1200o C. the complete might be looked upon as being These results have an important upon the cause of the in the flame , as it is manifest that if the temperature the luminous zone is above C. , the ] ight emitted must be to incandescent particles of carbon , and not to incandescent hydrocarbon vapours .
On determining the temperature of an ethylene flame whilst burnfrom a small fish-tail burner by means of the Le Chatelier thermocouple , used in the way described in my paper*on the luminosity of flames , I found that the temperatures were as follows:\mdash ; Height above Portion of flame .
burner .
Temperature .
Non-luminous zone . . . . . . . . . . . .
inch .
C. Commencement of luminosity. . .
, , 1340 Top of luminous zone. . . . . . . . . .
2 , , 1865 Sides of , , , , 1875 that luminosity commenced at C. , and continued even C. , temperatures at which the incandescent vapour theory untenable .
might be urged that the heavy hydrocarbons already produced temperature in the -luminous zone are not so easily by heat as acetylene , and that these may be the even though carbon particles be present from the decomacetylene ; bnt this would hardly be possible , as so little besides is to be found at the top of the non-luminous zone of an flame , and it can be experimentally shown that even when vapour is formed and is largely diluted it begins to break up deposit carbon at C. The supporters of the ' solid particle\ldquo ; theory of luminosity agree concluding that the liberated carbon , existing as it does in a conof molecular division , is heated to incandescence partly by its combustion , and partly by the combustion of the hydrogen and monoxide going on around the finely-divided carbon particles .
* ' Chem. Soc. Journai , ' 1893 .
in the Flames of Hydrocarbon Gases .
results show that the diameter of the wire seriously affects recorded under these conditions by the thermothe same degree of heat being recorded by the fine wire as 24 hotter than is shown by the thickest wire employed , this being probably chiefly due to loss by conduction .
taking the temperature of heated gas flowing through a tube source of erro ] is but small , as some considerabIe length of wire heated on each side of the twist , conduction has but little effect thermo-couple itself , but in determinin the temperature of it is manifest that the finest usable wire must be employed in to reduce the error from conduction .
Test experiments also that no part of the thermo-couple must project beyond the as if it did a considerable diminution in the recorded temperature place .
For these reasons it was manifestly best to use the finest wire could be employed without the risk of fusing at the temperaexisting in the flames to be tested ; and all temperatures in this paper were made with wire in .
in diameter , twist being as short as possible , so that it is probable that , the temperatures may be from 10 to 20 too low , yet the are strictly comparable .
which I have lately made with pure acetylene , prepared action of water upon calcic carbide , show it to be the most illuminant to be found amongst the gaseous hydrocarbons , burnt in a small flab flame burner under the most suitable and its power calculated to a flow of 5 cubic hour , its value is equal to about 240 candles .
colour of the flame is pure white , and an ethylene flame beside yellow and dull\mdash ; the purity of the light at once suggesting high condition of incandescence in the particles of carbon in the flame .
taking the temperature of the various portions of the and comparing these with the temperatures obtained in the way with the ethylene flame and a coal-gas flame of the same the following resuIts are obtained:\mdash ; Portion of flame .
Acetylene .
Ethylene .
Coal gas .
Non-luminous zone . . . . . .
C. C. C. Commencement of luminosity. .
1411 1340 1658 Near top of luminous zone. . . .
1517 1865 2116 the illuminating values of the gases calculated to a flow of an hour in the burners best suited for their consumption , are Acetylene . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ethylene . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coal gas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prof. .
B. Lewes .
The Cause of Luminosity whilst if all were compared when burning from flat flame of the same size as those in which the temperatures were the resnlts when calculated to a consumption of 5 cubic would be Acetylene . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ethylene Coal gas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
nil Here then we have the anomaly of three gases , which not only not conform to the preconceived ation , but which have ratio of temperature and illuminating value directly opposed to other .
In the case of the acetylene and ethylene , moreover , the contain the same number of atoms of carbon , and yet enormous a discrepancy in their illuminating value .
The fact that there is no apparent relation existing temperature of the flame , or tlJe probable number of carbon contained in it and its illuminating value , at once suggests that luminosity must be in great part governed by some changes taking place in the flame itself , and which do not of affect the average temperature of the flame to any great degree .
The researches of Hittorf* and Siemens that air , steam , the oxides of carbon , even when heated to temperatures above existing in luminous hydrocarbon flames , are perfectly and the fact that the Bunsen flame , when supplied with sufficient has a temperature exceeding C. in its hottest part , and emits no light , shows us that it is exceedingly unlikely that interactions leading to luminosity take place amongst these flame gases .
The fact that most of the unsaturated hydrocarbons in the are converted into acetylene before lumiuosity commences , draws one 's attention this body , and the fact that it is endothermic , at once gests the idea it may be the of ]leat during its decomposition that endows the carbon produced from it with an incandescence far higher than any could be expected from the temperature of the flame .
Berthelot has calculated that the temperature developed detonation of acetylene at constant volume is no less than and if this be imparted at the moment of its liberation to the of its , the incandescence of the carbon particles is explained .
If luminosity be even partly due to this cause , the pure acetylene first recorded by Berthelot should develop order to see if this were so , a thin glass tube , closed by a * Wied .
Ann vol. 7 , pp. 5s7 , 591 .
in the Flames of Hydrocarbon containing one-tenth of a gram of mercuric fulminate in it by two copper wires , which were connected by a thin wirs in contact with the fulminate , and on firing the by the electric current the flash of the fulminate was to emit but a feeble light .
same charge was fixed in a simila ] ' tube filled with pure collected over mercury , the result being a of intense light and .
the shattering of the tube , the pieces of which were coated with the carbon produced by the decomposition of the the small piece of white tissue paper used to contain the was only scorched at the points where the explosion of the had burst through it , showing that in the instantaneous which had taken place , the intenss heat which had developed either was confined to the products of decomposition , had not had time to scorch the papel experiment at first sight seemed conclusive evidence that it the endothermic nature of the acetylene which , during its decomin the flame , endowed the particles of carbon with the incundescence , but the objection presented itself that , when mixtures of oxygen and hydrogen in the eudiometer , luminous flash is produced , and , although the light so is feeble as compared with the intensity of the white light by the detonation of the acetylene , still fnrther proof is before this action can be accepted as the prime factor in luminosity .
It is also manifest that it would not do to assume that the rapidity the decomposition of the acetylene in a flame was nearly so great when the undiluted gas was detonated , and the question arose as whether it would be possible to obtain evidence as to ] exposed to heat alone , liberating carbon in a luminous conAlnhough the instantaneous liberation of on the decomposition the gas by detonation appears to confine the temperaGure to of its decomposition , it was to be expected that , on being by heat , and probably , therefore , at a slower rate , the in temperature might be detected .
try this , pure acetylene was passed through a platinum tube in diameter and 40 cm .
long , in which the Le Chatelier was arranged as follows:\mdash ; The two wires were twisted for a length of 3 mm. , and the wires on eithe side of the are then passed through thin glass tubes , which are fused on to ; having been in this way coated with glass so that only the is exposed , they are passed through the platinum tube , the insulating the wire from the metal of tube , and keeping Prof. .
B. Lewes .
Cause of Luminosity the thermo-junction in such a position that it inters the lres of the gas in the tube , not that of the wall of the tube .
each end of the platinum tube glass -pieces are fitted , down stems of which the wires pass to mercury seals ; from the metal seals conducting wires lead to the resistance coils , the key , and a reflecting galvanometer .
A steady flow of acetylene was allowed to pass through the tube , and was led into water at the other end .
The tube was slowly and carefully heated for about 4 in .
of its length , and , as the temperature reached 70 C. , white vapours began to flow from the and these , as the temperature rose , increased in quantity .
The source of heat had been so regulated that the temperature had risen about per minute , but , almost immediately 80 C. was passed , the galvanometer registered a sudden leap up in temperature to about 1000o C. , whilst finely-divided carbon poured from the tube .
This seemed to indicate that so was about the temperature at which the pure acetylene broke up into its constituents , and an experiment was now to ses if this developed incandescence in the liberated carbon .
A small glass combustion tube was well supported , and heated to the highest temperature attainable with one of Fletcher 's big blowpipes , whilst pure acetylene was slowly flowing through it , the heating not being commenced until the tube was filled with the pure gas , all air being tljoroughly rinsed out .
As the temperature reached the softening point of the glass , the acetylene apparently burst into a lnrid flame at the point where it entered the zone of heat , and clouds of carbon swept forwards through the tube ; but , although the carbon particles had to traverse an inch or more of tube more highly heated than the point of entering the hot zone , it was only this latter point that the luminosity was developed , proving beyond doubt that it was the heat evolved by the decomposition , and not the external heating , which caused the carbon particles to emit Iight .
If it is bhe decomposition of the molecule of acetylene which develops the heat which is the cause of the incandescence of the carbon particles , then , if acetylene could be burnt without decomposition , a non-luminous flame should be produced .
It is conceivabls that this mi be done by so diluting the acetylene that it would require a much higher temperature to break it up .
It was Heumann who showed* that hydrocarbon gases may burn with luminous flames , i.e. , with separation of carbon in ths flame , or with non-luminous flames , i.e. , without any separation of carbon , and that the maintenance of a high temperature is an essential condition of luminosity : a flame , the temperature of which has been by any means , being no longer able to bring about the * Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 183 , Part I , pp. 102\mdash ; 131 .
in the Flames of Hydrocarbon Gas of carbon .
He also points out*that " " combustible matter , diluted with indifferent gases , requires to be maintained at a temperature , in order that it may burn with a luminous flame , when it is undiluted with such gases Percy Frankland , in his researches on the effect'of diluents the illuminating value of hydrocarbons , showed that ethylene , was capable of .
a light of candles power when by itself ; became non-luminous when diluted with about:\mdash ; Hydrogen . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
90 per cent. Carbon monoxide . . . . . . . .
80 Carbon dioxide . . . . . . . . . .
60 Nitrogen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 which all show that excessive dilution by inert gases destroys order to see if dilution had the same effect upon acetylene , were made by diluting it with pure hydrogen .
The were mixed over water , the pption of acetylene actually in the gas being detsrmined by analysis at the burner , and the water in both holder and meber was , as far as possible , with the gas , yet , as the analyses show , the precaution was important one .
that dilntion with between 80 and 90 per cent. of hydrogen the acetylene non-luminous when the mixture was burnt a burner suitable for the higher values of gas .
In order to determine the point at which luminosity was destroyed consuming the mixture in a burner suited to develop the light a gas of low illuminating power , the experiment was repeated , a 3-in .
flame burning from the London argand , and also from a 4 Bray union jet , the latter being employed as it is difficult to the temperature in the argand flame .
so that luminosity would be destroyed in the argand by dilution about 90 per cent. hydrogen , and in the No. 4 Bray with about per cent. The next point to be determined was whether the destruction luminosity in the diluted acetylene flame was in reality due to tion rendering it necessary to employ a higher temperature for decomposition of the acetylene , or to other causes .
In order to do this , a tube made of specially infusible glass 4 mm. in diameter was taken , and the Le Chatelier thermo-couple was fitted into it in the same way as before , used with the platinum tube , and all air having been rinsed out by a current of the mixture to be experimented with , the gas was allowed to pass at a steady rate of flow through the tube , the point at which the thermo-couple was situated being steadily heated by the Fletcher blowpipe , whilst the temperature recorded on the scale was noted the moment that incandescent liberation of carbon commenced .
It was found impossible to obtain a glass tube which would stand temperatures higher than this ; but on plotting out the points so obtained , and which give a ] straight line , it is seen that even if the increase in temperature only continues for increased dilution in the same ratio as shown in the experimental determinations , which is extremely unlikely , the reason of the destruction of luminosity in highly-dilnted hydrocarbon gases is at once explained , as an increase of each 10 per cent. in the dilution would necessitate an increase of 10 C. in the temperature of the flame , and with 90 per cent. dilulution a temperature of over C. would be required to bring about decomposition .
My reason for believing that it is highly improbable than when dilution is great it only requires the same increment in teInperature to bring about decomposition as when the dilution is small , is that in all the work I have done on the effect of diluents upon luminosity , and also in Professor Percy Frankland 's researches upon the subject , dilution with hydrogen and carbon monoxide acts regularly , and decreases the value of the illuminant in a direct ratio down to about 50 per cent. , whilst when the degree of dilution exceeds 60 per oent .
a rapid falling away in the luminosity takes place , a fact which I think points clearly to a regular pro rata rise of temperature being needed for increase in dilution up to between 50 and 60 per cent. , whilst higher degrees of dilntion need a far greater rise of temperature in order to bring about decomposition .
Moreover it would be manifestly incorrect to look upon the percentage of acetylene present in the gas issuing from the as being any guide to the degree of dilution existing at the point at which luminosity commences .
As the two small streams of gas lssu from the holes in the union jet meet and splay themselves out into the flat flame , they draw in with them a considerable proportion of rir , the quantity being governed by the pressure of the gas at the burner .
This can be seen by the fact that a high value gas whioh burns a union burner of a given size with a smoky flame , under a gas pressure of half inch of water , will burn with a bright , smokeless , and rigid flame of greatly increased illuminating value when the pressure , raised to 2 in .
, whilst an ordinary coal gas of 16-candle value must be burnt from a flat flame bnrner at a of about in .
if the best results are to be obtained , the increase in air drawn in , if the pressure rises to a much higher degree , diminishing the illuminating value .
Then , again , the area of non-luminous combustion in a mixture of like coal gas means that some at least of the hydrocarbons are consumed before the required temperature for their decomposition is 460 Prof. .
B. Lewes .
Cause reached , whilst the products of combustion formed in the lower of the flame are mixed with the flame gases , partly by diffusion partly by being drawn into it by the upward rush .
When a simple hydrocarbon like ethylene or acetylene is alone , the whole of the heat required to bring about the tion has to be generated by the combustion , without of a considerable proportion of ] hydrocarbon , and this means siderable dilution at the spot where the luminosity that at the top of the non-luminous zone of an acetylene flame only some 14 or 15 per cent. of acetylene present , diluted nitrogen , hydrogen , water vapour , the oxides of carbon , with a mixture of 10 per cent. acetylene and 90 per cent. of in some cases little or no acetylene could be found at the top inner zone of the flame , it either having diffused with the and been consumed , or polymerised to other compounds .
It is manifest that the luminosity of a flame will be not by the percentage of acetylene in the gas , but at the point which the temperature is sufficiently high to bring about position .
If , instead of making a mixture of 90 per cent. hydrogen and per cent. acetylene , the hydrogen is burnt at the end of an platinum tube , which has a fine platinum tube passing up the oentre to the top of the inner zone of the flame , and if the acetylene be passed into the flame at the rate of one volume for every ten of hydrogen , not only do we obtain an intensely luminous , but a smoky flame .
In this experiment the gases were issuing from their tubes at the same pressure , but the small tube soon choked deposited carbon , and it was found that the same results could equally well attained by down the tube to the level the hydrogen tube , and making the acetylene issue at a higher rate of flow , which hurried it in a compact stream the inner zone of the hydrogen flame .
In order to see if the percentage of acetylene present at the top the non-luminous zone bore any ratio to the illuminating value of , experiments were made in which mixtures of hydrogen acetylene were burnt at a small flat flame burner , and the of acetylene was determined by gently aspirating out some of flame gases from the top of the non-luminous zone .
Analysis of mixbure used .
Illuminating Acetyleme at top of value of flame Hydrogen .
Acetylene .
non.luminous zone .
for 5 3 .
43 .
56 .
0 .
240.0 in the Flames of drocarbon Gases .
plotting out these results , they certainly seem to point to fact that , with flames of the same size bnrning from the same the Jight emitted by the { lams is directly proportional to the of acetylene present at top of the non-luminous zone the flame , provided always that the temperature is sufficiently to complete its decomposition It is perfectly possible for the temperature of a flame to be so little above the point necessary to decompose the diluted acetylene that , whilst some decomposes and renders the flame faintly luminous , the larger portion burns without decomposition .
A good example of this is to be found in the combustion of alcoho ] , the flame of which conIains as much acetylene as is to be found in a good coal-gas flame , but which is practically almost non-luminous .
If alcohol in a small dish be ignited , it burns with a faintly luminous flame , and if a belljar is placed over it , some of the products of combustion mingling with the fiame still further cool it and render it noD-luminous ; but if now a stream of oxygen be introduced under the bell-jar the temperature of the flame is at once increased and becomes highly luminous , whilst a cold porcelain vessel held in the flame is coated with soot .
In all the experiments in which light was developed in heated tubes by the decomposition of acetylene , the glow of the carbon was red and lurid , the light emitted being of the same character and appearance as that developed by the combustion of potassium carbon dioxide , and entirely lacking the pure whibe incandescence of the acetylene flame as burnt from a flat-flame burner .
This may be due to the fact that in the open flame the tempera- tnre of the carbon particles is presumably due to three sources of heat Prof. .
B. Lewes .
The of Luminosity A. Heat derived from the decomposition of the acetylens molecnle .
, Heat derived the combustion of hydrogen , carbon monoxide , and some hydrocarbons in the flame .
C. Heat derived from the combustion of the carbon partioles themselves , whilst in the tube experiments the heat of the walls of the tube and the heat of decomposition alone are acting , and it is evident that the intensity of the heat finding its way through the walls of the tnbe be very different to that exercised by the walls of burngas which enclose the luminous portion of the flame , and there can be but little doubt that the temperature of the carbon particles will valy enormously with the rate at which the acetylene decomposes , as the more quickly the action takes place , the greater will be the localising action upon the heat evolved , and the higher the incandescence of the carbon particles .
That this is so seems certain from the whiteness of the flash of light emitted when the acetylene is detonated , and experiments were made in order , if possible , to gain an idea as to how much of the incandescence of the carbon particles was due to the emdothermicity of the decomposing acetylene , and how much the action cf heat and combustion on the carbon particles after formation .
In order to do this , a non-luminous flat flame of large size was desired , and was obtained by using coal gas de-illuminated by slowly it through bromine , well washing with sodic hydrate solution and water , and then passing it through strong sulphurio acid , the gas so treated having an illuminating value of candles for 5 cnbic feet when burnt in the London argand at such a rate as to give a .3-in .
flame , whilst in a fish-tail burner it gave a non-luminous flame .
This gas gave on analysis the following percentage compo- sihon : \mdash ; so that its combustion would give the same temperature and flame reactions as those in an ordinary gas flame .
A very fine platinum tube was obtained , closed at one end , and vitlJ five minute holes bored in a line close to the sealed end , and in the Flames of Hydrocarbon Gases .
having been so arranged that the holes were buried in the flame at the top of the inner zone , acetylene was then gently allowed through them into the flame .
the points where the acetylene issued into the flame , small areas intense luminosity were produced , whilst the liberated carbon up between the flame walls of the upper zone produced red bands of very low luminosity .
It may be suggested that carbon particles supplied in this way to the flame may have and formed masses larger than those produced in the way , but I do not think this , as they were completely and no smoke escaped from the crown of the flame , if a flat flame is interfered with in such a way as to cause carbon particles to roll themselves together , smoking of the flame produced .
I think the inference to be drawn from this experiment undoubtedly is that it is the heat of decomposition which gives the high incandescence and light emitting value to the carbon particles , and that the temperature of the combustion of the other flame gases and finally of the carbon itself plays but a secondary part .
In considering these resuIts , it seems remarkable that if acetylene owes its power of rendering hydrocarbon flames luminous to its high endothermic properties , that cyanogen , which is still mole endothermic , should burn under all conditions that have at present been tried with a non-luminons flame .
Heat of formation .
Acetylene . . . . . . . .
Cyanogen . . . . . . . .
is clear that if the rapidity of decomposition locaJises the heat to the products of decomposition , and that this renders the carbou particles incandescent , hilst the hydrogen plays at a very subsidiary part , it ought not to matter whether it be hydrogen or nitrogen which is combined with the carbon .
Berthelot showed that cyanogen like ylene could be detonated by a small charge of mercuric fulminate , but he notes that the test is not always successful , which points to the decomposition of this body requiring a greater of energy to break up the molecule than is the case with acetylene , and known facts would us to expect that this would be the case , as although exothermic compounds become less and less stable with rise of temperature , bodies on the other hand become more stable , the endothermicity of cyanogen being greatel than that of would lead one to expect that temperatures which would acetylene would have no effect on cyanogen , and that , during the combustion of cyanogen , the liberation of Prof. .
B. Lewes .
The Cause of Luminosity would probably have a diluting and cooling actiou , the would burn directly without liberating any carbon which In order to see if the temperature of the cyanogen flame burnt from an ordinary flat flame burner differed much from of hydrocarbons when consumed in a flame of the same size kind , the temperatures were experimentally dstermined by the method employed , and in the same parts of the flame as had been done with acetylene , ethylsns , and coal gas .
Portion of the flame .
Temperature .
Centre of inner zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C. Top of innel zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, 2085 Near top of outer zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Showing that the cyanogen flame was actually hotter than the acetylene and ethylene flames , and about the same as the coal gas flame , but that the heat was dffierently distributed , the inner zone being far hotter than in the other gases , whilst the maximum temperature of the flame was at the apex of the zone , instead of being nearer the top of the flame .
An experiment was now made to ascertain if it were possible to decompose cyanogen with luminous deposition of carbon , by passing it through a hard glass tube heated by means of the blowpipe ; but at highest temperature attainable no trace of any deposition of carbon took place , how far more stable cyanogen is under the influence of high temperatures than acetylene .
The structure and characteristic appearance of the cyanogen flame have been explained by Smithells*and Dent , who conclude that the inner zone of peach blossom tint is caused by the combustion of the cyanogen to carbon monoxide and nitrogen , whilst the outer blue cone is formed by the oxidation of the monoxide to dioxide , the reen fringe to the outer cone being attributed to the pressnce of quantities of oxides of nitrogen ; and if this explanation be accepted , it is clear that we could not obtain luminosity the portion flame immediately above the inner zone , , as all cynogen has been destroyed without decomposition before that point is reached .
It is conceivable , however , that although no luminosity can be detected in a cyanogen flame , and although the which can be obtained in a glass tube is insufficient to break up the compound with luminotls separation of carbon , yet if cyanogen could be heated to a considerably higher temperature , it might be possible to decompose it in such a way as to develop luminosity .
In order to try this point , a hydrogen flame was from the end of an open platinum tube 9 mm. in diameter , and a thin platinum * Chem. .
Jour 1894 , p. 608 .
in the Flame of Hydrocarbon Gases .
mm. in diameter was passed up through the broad tube to of the inner zone , and a slow stream of cyanogen was with the resuIt that the ftame at once became luminous , on surrounding the hydrogen flame with an atmosphere of to increase the temperature , the luminosity was considerably experiment at once explains the cause of the non-luminosity cyanogen flame , and shows that it is purely a question of and the probabilities are that , burnt in a flame which sufficient heat to rapidly decompose it , nearly as high an value as that of aoetylene would be obtained .
I think the explanation of the apparent anomaly of the having a higher temperature than the acetylene and ethylene is to be found in the fact that the moleoules of cyanogen consumed without previous decomposition , so that the heat during the formation of the cyanogen is added to the of combustion , and raises the average temperaturs of the with acetylene the instantaneous decomposition of the before combustion confines the heat evolved to Iiberated and the average temperature of the flame is but little more the heat of combustiou .
If the luminosity of a hydrocarbon flame is principally due to the localisation , during intensely rapid decomposition , of the heat of formation in the products , the illuminating values of such hydrogases as contain wo atoms of carbon in the molecule should bear a simple ratio to their heat of formation .
The gaseons hydrocarbons are\mdash ; although they may undergo many changes in the flame , they will ultimately be reduced to carbon and hydrogen again before the full of the flame is developed .
the acetylene into which these hydrocarbons is converted heat is decomposed , the action takes place with such enormous that one would expect the heat evolved to simply divide itself the liberated atoms , so that the question of specific at temperatures may be omitted .
exothermic like ethane , considerable heat will to be developed by its own combustion before it is converted the acetylene , which , by its decomposition , endows the fiame luminosity , and if we take the ethane and call its light proenergy 1 , we can then obtain a ratio of such energy for the figures which are far nearer the experimental ones than could been expected , considering the crude character of the calculation insufficient data , which leads to omitting altogether such factors as the amount of gas consumed to bring about the temperature of decomposition , the specific heat of the products , the thermal value of the change from gaseous to solid carbon , and of no value except as showing that a ratio does exist between formation and illuminating value .
Methane is the only other gaseous hydrocarbon of which of formation is known , it being , and as the molecule only 1 atom of carbon , 2 mols .
have to be taken , and on the probable illuminating value by the same method as to the other hydrocarbons , we should have\mdash ; in the Flame of Hydrocarbon Gases .
illuminating value , as determined by Mr. Lewis T. Wright , but here , again , we know by experiment that methane quires very high temperature to bring about its conversion into acetylene and decomposition into carbon and hydrogen , and that a large of the gas must be burnt without decomposition to do The facts which I have to establish in this paper 1 .
That ths luminosity of hydrocarbon flames is principally due to the localisation of the heat of formation of acetylene in the carbon and hydrogen produced by its decomposition .
2 .
That such localisation is produced by the rapidity of its decomposition , which varies with the temperature of the flame and the degree of dilution of the acetylene .
3 .
That the average temperature of the flame due to combustion would not be sufficient to produce the incandescence of the carbon particles within the flame .
In my paper on the action of heat upon ethylene , blought before the Royal Society this spring , I showed that the decomposition of ethylene into acetylene and simpler hydrocarbons was mainly dus to the action of radiant heat , and was but little retarded by dilution , whilst I have shown in paper tha6 the acetylene so produced requires a considerable increase in temperature to bring about its decomposition when diluted , and it is possible with these data to give a fairly complete description of the actions which endow hydrocarbon flames with the power of emitting light .
When the hydrocarbon gas leavss the jet at which it is being burnt , those portions which come in contact with the air are consumed and form a wall of flame which surrounds the .
The unburnt gas in its passage the lower heated area of the flame unde cgoes a number of chemical changes , brought about by the action of xadiant heat emitted by the flame walls , the principal of which is the conversion of the hydrocarbons into acetylene , methane , and hydrogen .
The temperature of the flame quickly rises as the disbance from the increasss , and a portion of the flame is soon reached at which the heat is sufficiently intense to decompose the acetylene with a rapidity almost akin to detonation , and the beat of its formation , localised by the rapidity of its decomposition , raises the liberated carbon particles to incandescence , this giving the principal pal of the luminosity to the flame ; whilst these particles , heated by the combustion of the flame gases , still conlinue to glow , until finally 468 On the two-fold Spectra of and Nitrogen .
themselves consumed , this external heating and final adding slightly to the light emitted .
Any uIlsaturated hydrocarbons which have escaped sion acetylene before luminosity commences , and also any methaue may be sent on passing into the higher temperatures of the ous zone , become converted there into acetylene , and at once decomposed to carbon and hydrogen , increase the area of the giving portion of the flame .
My thanks are due to Mr. F. B. Grundy for the help he has me in the work entailed by this paper .
IV .
" " A possible Explanation of the two-fold Spectra of and Nitrogen By E. C. C. BALY , A.I.C. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar in University College , Londor .
Communicated by Professor BAMSAY , F.R.S. Received Febrnary 27 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The two spectra of oxygen are shown to be of a different nature .
They behave differently , and reasons are given for their being in probability the spectra of different gases .
They may either be two spectra produced by different ations of the oxygen molecule , or they may be the spectra of two different modifications of oxygen , or the spectra of two distinct gases esulting from a dissociation of oxygen , a combination of which is called oxygen .
It appeared worth while to undertake experiments with a view testing the last of these .
Oxygen was sparked in au similar to that used by Professor J. J. Thomson in his on the electrolysis of steam .
Hollow platinum electrodes were each one of which was connected with a Sprengel mercur pump .
In the first experiments , the distance between the electrodes was 35 mm. , and the highest pressure compatible with the appearance of the spectra was made the starting point of the experiments .
In first experiments it was.380 mm. The density of the oxygen sparking was determined , and taken as a test of its purity .
fractions )tained from the anode and cathode were weighed , and resuIts are given .
They follow the linss of J. J. Thomson 's inasmuch as with long sparks a lighter fraction was obtained at cathode , and with short sparks a heavier fraction .
The fractions the anode were not so definits as from the cathode , though the ence was in the right direction .
The probablo maximum weighing was gram .
This meant exactly one in the decimal place of the density obtained .
The general the results may be gauged from the densities of unsparked obtained .

