Account of the Repetition of M. Arago 's JExperiments on the Magnetism manifested by various Substances during the Act of Rotation .
By C. Babbage , Esq. F.R.S. and J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read June 16 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 467 .
] The experiments of iM .
Arago having excited much interest , the authors of this communication were induced to erect an apparatus for their verification ; and after a few trials they succeeded in causing a compass to deviate from the magnetic meridian , by setting in rotation under it plates of copper , zinc , lead , &amp;c. To obtain more visible and regular effects , however , they found it necessary to reverse the experiment , by setting in rotation a powerful horse-shoe magnet , and suspending over it the various metals and other substances to be examined , which were found to follow with various degrees of readiness the motion of the magnet .
The substances in which they succeeded in developing signs of magnetism were , copper , zinc , silver , tin , lead , antimony , mercury , gold , bismuth , and carbon , in that peculiar metalloidal state in which it is precipitated from carburetted hydrogen in gas-works .
In the case of mercury the rigorous absence of iron was secured .
In other bodies , such as sulphuric acid , resin , glass , and other non-conductors , or imperfect conductors of electricity , no positive evidence of magnetism was obtained .
The comparative intensities of action of thin bodies were next numerically determined by two different methods , viz. by observing the deviation of the compass over revolving plates of great size cast to one pattern , and by the times of rotation of a neutralized system of magnets suspended over them ; , and it is curious that the two methods , though they assigned the same order to the remaining bodies , uniformly gave opposite results in the cases of zinc and copper , placing them constantly above or below each other according to the mode of observation employed .
The authors next investigated the effect of solution of continuity on the various metals , in the course of which M. Arago 's results of the diminution of effect , by division of the metallic plates used , were verified ; and the further fact ascertained , that re-establishing the metallic contact with other metals , restores the force either wholly or in great measure , and that even when the metal used for soldering has in itself but a very feeble magnetic power , thus affording a power of magnifying weak degrees of magnetism .
The law of diminution of the force by increase of distance is next investigated .
It appears to follow no constant progression according to a fixed power of the distance , but to vary between the square and the cube .
The remainder of this paper is devoted to reasoning on the facts detailed .
The authors conceive that they may be all explained without any new hypothesis in magnetism , by supposing simply that time is requisite both for the development and loss of magnetism ; and that different metals differ in respect not only of the time they require , but in the intensity of the force ultimately developable in them ; and they apply this explanation not only to their own results , but to those obtained by Mr. Barlow in his paper on the rotation of iron .

