]\gt ; On the Colours of the in Mica , the Radiation Laminar ffracting By NATII GHOSH , , Lecturer on Optics in the Calcutta University .
( Communicated by Dr. Gilbert T. Walker , C.S.I. , Sc. D. , F.RS .
Received Apri129 , 1919 .
) 1 .
troductio l The phenomenon which forms the subject of this paper was briefly described in a preliminary communication in 'Nature , ' made jointly by Prof. C. .
Raman and the author of this , accompanied by a short but suggestive note by Lord Rayleigh .
* It is observed when a clear sheet of transparent mica is placed in front of a good achromatic lens , and examined by the well.known Foucault " " knife-edge\ldquo ; test , otherwise referred to also as the Topler\ldquo ; Schlieren\ldquo ; method .
The arrangement is shown in fig. 1 .
White light from a slit , ( illuminated by a half-watt incandescent lamp of 100 C.P. ) , is incident upon the lens , , which forms an achromatic of the slit at some distance from the lens .
A knife-edge , , is put in the focal plane , and so placed that the light coming to a focus in the ordinary way is completely cut off .
The telescope , , with its objective just behind the plane of the knife-edge , is pointed towards the lens , and is focussed on the surface of the mica ( M.M. ) placed immediately in front of the lens .
The mica ; as a whole , being optically good , remains invisible , but a few more or less irregular striae or lines on its surface are generally visible , and these are seen in the apparatus as brilliant and vividly coloured lines of light , the colours being usually different for erent striae .
If the mica be turned about an axis in its own plane ( e.g. , into the position shown in the * On the Colours of the StIiae in Mica ' Nature , ' November 14 , 1918 .
VOL. XCVI.\mdash ; A. Mr. P. N. Ghosh .
figure ) , the colours in a remarkable manner .
For instance , a stria that appears in the normal position as a fine golden yellow line , on rotation of the plane gradually changes colour to purple , then to blue , then to green , and finally to the yellow colour .
The phenomenon is best seen when the stri under observation runs more or less parallel to the direction of the slit in the illuminating apparatus .
It is proposed in the present paper to consider these effects in some detail , and to describe some further observations made by the writer since the publication of the preliminary note in ' Nature .
' 2 .
Nature of the Strioe .
The nature of the optical irregularities that constitute the striae in mica may be readily determined .
One method of settling the question is by the observation of Haidinger 's rings in mica , which have been recently very fully studied by Chinmayanandam .
* The mica is placed about an inch in front of , and parallel to , a sheet of white cardboard , which is illuminated on side facing the mica by the light of a Cooper-Hewitt lamp .
The reflected system of interference rings is observed through a small hole in the centre of the cardboard placed close to the eye , the rear face of the cardboard being blackened to avoid extraneous light .
When the mica is moved in its own plane , .
it is noticed that the first few expand or contract when a stria passes over the system .
The rings also appear distorted and irregular so long as the stria remains in the field of vision .
The foregoing tion clearly indicates that a is the boundary separating regions in the mica having slightly different thicknesses .
Its exact outline is , however , better seen in monochromatic light , when the eye is focussed on the surface of the , which has then , of course , to be removed to some distance from the observer .
described by Lord Rayin his note " " On the Regularity of Structure of Actual \ldquo ; .
the surface then appears divided into patches of different intensities , the patches themselves appearing uniform and the boundaries sharp to an focussed on the plate .
It is readily verified by examination of a number of specimens that it is these boundaries which appear as striae when mica is examined by the knife-edge test .
The striae are apparently formed by the unevenness of the splitting of the mica .
This is indicated by the fact that the striae in the pieces formed by dividing a sheet of mica into two , are exact counterparts of each other .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 95 ( ]918 ) .
' Phil. Mag vol. 19 , pp. 96-99 ( 1910 ) ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 5 , 342 , pp. 536-539 .
On the Colours of the Strioe in Mica .
In the experimental work described in this paper , the differences of thickness on the two sides of the striae were determined with the Jamin interferometer .
When this difference is considerable , it is rendered evident in ordinary day-light on putting the mica between crossed nicols , by the difference of tint seen on the two sides of the boundary .
3 .
Laminar Di.ffi.actiona ; nd the Colours Observed in the Test .
The writer has found interesting relation between the colours of the striae , as seen in the Foucault test , and the ordinary phenomena of laminary diffraction .
When white light from a point source passes through a sheet of mica , the non-uniformity in the thickness of the plate and the consequent differences in the retardation produced by it , disturb the wave propagation , and each stria in the mica produces in the field of transmitted light a system of diffraction fringes which follow the general outline of the stria in their shape .
These fringes may be readily observed through a low-power eve-piece placed behind the mica some distanoe from it .
Each system is more or less exactly symmetrical about its central , which is strongly coloured .
The writer has found that the colour of any stria , as seen in the Foucault test , is exactly complementary to the colour of the central fringe in laminary diffraction pattern produced by it .
For instance , a stria that at normal incidence appears golden-yellow in the Foucault test , produces a laminar action pattern with a greenish-blue central fringe .
Tlle com- plementary character of the two phenomena holds good also when the mica is held obliquely in the path of the incident light .
For instance , on rotating the mica , the colour of the central fringe of the diffraction pattern produced by the noted above changes from greenish-blue.to green , then to red , and finally again greenish-blue .
For any given wave-length , when the central fringe is bright , the stria appears dark , and vice versa .
The foregoing observation enables us clearly to see the relation between the luminosity of the striae , as observed in the Foucault test , and the relative retardation of the wave-front on the two sides of the boundary which the stria represents .
the differe1lce in the retardation is an exact integral multiple of a wave-length , the wave-front emerges from the plate practically without disturbance , and it follows from what has been said above that the luminosity of the stria in the Foucault test for the .
particular wave-length must vanish .
Similarly , when the relative retardation is an integral number of wave-lengths plus half a wave-length , the central fringe in the laminar diffraction pattern would be perfectly , and the luminosity of the stria in the Foucauit test would then maximum for the wave-length considered .
Mr. P. N. Ghosh .
The striae only appear coloured when the difference of retardation on the two sides of the boundary does not exceed a few wave-lengths .
With eater thicknesses the striae appear luminous , but white .
In these cases , however , by putting a prism at the eyepiece end of the observing telescope , the image of each stria may be seen drawn out into a spectrum , crossing which we have two , three , four , or even larger number of dark bands , wave-lengths for which luminosity of the stria is zero .
The changes in the position of the bands in Ihe spectrum produced by tiltin the mica about an axis in its own plane may also be readily noticed .
4 .
to Reproduce the ?
Etching Glass Plates .
Mica , with its transparency and the ease of its natural , is far the most suitable material for observing the colours of laminar boundaries in the Foucault test .
Suitable pieces of selenite have also been found to show the phenomenon , though in a much less manner .
Cleavage rhombs of calcite also occasionally show coloured striae .
It was thought that it would be of interest to see if the phenomenon could be reproduced artificially by etching part of a glass surface with very dilute fluoric acid , the other part being protected by a coating of wax , which is subsequently removed .
Several attempts were made by this method , as also by coating part of a glass surface with very thin films of collodion or celluloid , but the results obtained were not .
A plate thus coated or etched generally shows the boundary as a luminous line , more or less perfectly white , and with hardly any trace of colour .
] in one case was anything like a definite indication of colour obtained , but this was a very poor contrast with the gorgeous displays furnished by mica in the Foucault test .
The failure to obtain colours in these cases appears to be due to the want of suddenness in the change of thickness at the boundary formed by or coating a plate of glass .
Obviously , in the case of a gradual slope , we have a less simple case of laminar diffraction than when we are dealing with a sudden change of thickness .
The principal differences are that , in the former case , the laminar diffraction occurs from an area of finite width , and there is also a distinct element of asymmetry ; whereas , in the latter case , the scattering of the light by the boundary must obviously occur in a more or less symmetrical manner .
That there is actually an asymmetry of the kind indicated in the case of etched or coated glass plates can be shown experimentally .
to the diagram of the apparatus ( fig. 1 ) , it will be seen that it is open to us to put the knife-edge in the focal plane either from above or below .
In the case of mica this is found to make no appreciable On the Cotours of the Strioe in Mica .
ifference , so long as the area o.f the objective of the observing teiescope not overed by the knife-edge is the same in both cases .
But with the etched or oated glass plates a very great difference is found in the luminosity of tria as the kn ife-edge is put in from above or from below .
Apparently , an appreciable area of the wave-front is retarded in an unsymmetrical manner , and this leads to a marked difference in the intensity of the diffracted light on the two sides of the focus .
The difficulty in obtaining a perfectly sharp boundary by etching a plate of glass is also shown by observations of the laminar diffraction pattern a source of light with a plate so etched .
The diffraction show a marked rence of intensity on the two sides of the shadow of the boundary .
* The dependence of the configuration and intensity of the laminar diffraction on the nature of the transition at the boundary would appear to furnish an interesting field for study .
5 .
Apparent Doubling of the Strioe An interesting effect is noticed if , instead of the ordinarily used in the Foucault test , we substitute a central stop , which cuts ofl the light brought to a focus by the omatic lens , but allows the light on botlb sides of the focus diffracted by the striae to enter the of the observing telescope .
Each of the striae in the mica then appears doubted , fine perfectly black line appearing in the positiOn of the striae , and a bright coloured of the stria on either side of it .
The effect is somewhat similar to that recently described by Banerji in regard to the luminous boundaries of diffracting apertures , except that , in the present case , the fringes on either side of the central black line are coloured and not white , as in the case of opaque screens .
The explanation of the effect is analogous to that iven by Banerji , viz. , that the light diffracted by the stria and reaching the focal plane of the achromatic lens is in opposite phases on the two sides of the focus .
We may regard each stria as giving out two streams of diff.racted radiation , one on each side of the direction of the regularly transmitted rays , and these two streams are in opposite phases .
Consequently , when they both enter the observing telescope , they interfere , and give zero illumination at the position of the image of the boundary , and luminous fringes on either side of it .
The intensity of the tion * The asymmetry can be clearly seen in a photograph of laminar diffraction by an etcbed glass plate reproduced in W. Wood 's ' Physical Optics ' ( 1914 edition , p. though Wood does not draw attention to this feature .
S. K. Banerii , ' Phil. Mag January , pp. 110-128 ( 1919 ) .
Mr. P. N. Ghosh .
from the laminar boundary depends , of course , upon the relative retardation of the wave-front on the two sides of the boundary , and is a maximum when this retardation is half a wave-length plus any integral number of wave lengths , and a minimum when the retardation is an integral number of 6 .
Matlnematical Theory .
ffraction .
rigorous treatment of the diffraction of light by a laminar boundary does not appear to have been given , and would obviously be difficult .
Primd facie , it may be expected that the boundary would scatter light in all directions , the intensity of the scattered radiation depending in a somewhat complicated manner upon the angles of incidence and diffraction , upon the difference in thickness and the nature of the transition at the boundary , upon the wave-length and refractive index or indices of the medium , and also upon the state of polarisation of the incident light .
In dealing with the Foucault test , however , we are concerned with small deviations , that is with the effects observed in the directions not far removed from that of the incident waves .
This limitation simplifies the problem , as the ordinary Fresnel-Kirchoff treatment of diffraction phenomena then becomes applicable .
If the difference of thickness at the laminar boundary does not exceed a few wave-lengths and the transition is more or less sudden , it may be legitimately assumed that the wave-front after passage through the plate consists of two parts , one retarded with respect to the other by a certain interval .
The difference of the retardation of the two parts of the wave-front is if the plate be held nolmally , being the difference of thickness .
For oblique incidence , it is easily shown that , which may also be written in the form , or From this , it is clear that the difference of retardation increases with the obliquity .
Elementary theory shows that directly behind the laminar boundary the intensity is a maximum or mlnimum according as is an even or an odd multiple of half the wave.length of the light used .
In addition on both sides of this line there are diffraction fringes symmetrical about the line .
* of Foucault Test.\mdash ; A stricter theory which takes into account the convergence of the wave and the limitation of its aperture in passing through the achromatic lens and also the limitation in the focal plane of the lens by knife-edge and by the object glass of the observing telescope , is given in a recent paper by Lord ayleigh .
* Wood 's ' Optics , ' Chap. , Section : Diffraction by Thin Laminae .
' Phil. Mag February , p. 174 ( 1917 ) .
On the Colours of the Strioe in Mica .
He considers the case of retardation produced by a discontinuous laminar boundary , and shows that the direction of the boundary old appear strongly marked by an excess of brightness .
It seems unnecessary to repeat here the detailed analysis ooiven by hinl to which the reader might be referred .
Lord Rayleigh 's results may , however , be quoted in order to illustrate and explain the phenomena actually observed with mica .
The discontinuous boundary being visible in the centre of the field of the observing telescope , the expression of intensity for the direction of the boundary takes the following form for a iven wave-length : I ( 0 ) Si Si ( 1 ) where is the semi-angular aperture of the achromatic lens ; and are the lower and upper limits of the opening in the focal plane .
We may now proceed to show that the colours of the striae , as seen in the Foucault test , are virtually independent of the position of the knife-edge in the focal plane , provided it be sufficiently advanced to cut off the bulk of the light'.coming to a focus in the ordinary way .
The intensity of as given by ( 1 ) depends on the magnitude of and When is large , Si can be taken to be and Ci may be neglected .
We may then write I ( 0 ) Si Ci Further , if be small compared with is large ; and provided , , if the knife-edge be sufficiently advanced to cut off at least the whole of the central band in the diffraction pattern in the focal plane , the coefficient of within the brackets practically reduces to the quantity , which is independent of the wavelength , and is also much larger than the coefficient of .
Hence it follows that when the knife-edge is sufficiently advanced in the focal plane to cut off the bulk of the light coming to a focus , any further movement of the knife-edge which increases , merely reduces the apparent intensity of the luminosity of the laminar boundary , but does not alter its colour .
This is , however , not true if be smau , that is , if the knife-edge does not complete cut off the central band of the diffraction pattern for all the wave-lengths in the visible spectrum .
For the Ci function has then a large value and is not negligibl .
in comparison with , and the light Mr. P. N. Ghosh .
of longer which comes to a focus and escapes being cut off by the knife-edge , produces an appreciable alteration in the colour of the striae as seen in the .
telescope .
If the coefficient of be sufficiently small , the colours of the striae are practically determined by the variation of with the wave-length , being the relaGiye retardation on the two sides of the Iaminar boundary .
The intensity is a maximum for those wave-lengths for which this retardation is half a plus any umber of fths .
In any case , the colour of the striae can be calculated for any iven value of , using the Maxwell colour triangle in a manner similar to that used by Lord Bayleigh in interference colours of thin plates .
* The expression given by Lord Rayleigh also serves to explain the apparent doubling of the striae described in Section 5 above .
In this case we have two apertures symmetrically placed extending from to and to and the expression for the vibration in the focalplane may then be written as In the direction of the boundary , i.e. , when , the coefficient of vanishes , and ( 0 ) which gives very small values for the intensity .
When is slightly less or CJreater than zero , we get values for the intensity ; showing that the striae appear doubled with a dark line in the centre .
Further , it is found that in through the direction changes sign , thus showing that the phase of the diffracted waves differs by on the two sides of the boundary .
7 .
Experimentat Tests of the Theory .
From a knowledge of the difference of etaldation at a stria ( as determined with the Jamim interferometer ) , the colour it should show in the Foucault test may be computed , the method of the Maxwell colour ' Edinburgh aCtionS , , pp. ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 2 , pp. 498-510 .
On the Colours of the Strioe in triangle , and checked with that actually observed .
This was done for the cases noted below , and good agreement was found . .
Colour actually observed . .
Golden yellow . .
Purple . .
Blue .
A quantitative test of the formulae for the case in which the mica is held obliquely , is possible by using approximately monochromatic light for illuminating the ' slit , and finding the through which the mica should be rotated from the normal position to extinguish the luminosity of the stria .
This should occur when the retar ation for the oblique position is equal to an integral number of of the light used .
The test was actually made by putting a red glass plate in front of the slit having a transmission region from about 6300 A.U. to 6500 A.U. in the spectrum , and turning the mica till the stria under observation vanished .
This was done for the two cases below:\mdash ; According to the theory set out above , the colour of a stria is determined by the difference in the retardation of a wave-front passing on either side of it .
If the mica be immersed in a cell containing liquid , this retardation , which in air is decreases to , where is the refractive index of the liquid , and we should accordingly expect to find that the colour of as seen in the Foucault test should also alter .
This is confirmed in experiment , and it is also noticed that striae which are luminous but white in air ( being too thick to show colour ) appeared coloured when immersed in a cell containing water .
As a specific instance may be quoted the case of a stria which in air appears green , and immersed in water appears violet .
The refractive index of water being taken as , this observation is found to be in quantitative agreement with theory .
8 .
Summary Conclusion .
The paper describes the results of a fuller investigation of the phenomenon of the coloured striae observed when mica is examined by the Foucault test , On the Colours of the in Mica .
described by Prof. C. .
Raman and the present author in a preliminary communication in ' Nature .
' The following are the principal results which have been discussed in the } of mathematical theory .
( a ) The striae are shown by an examination of the Haidinger 's rings in mica ( and also otherwise ) , to be the boundaries between parts having slightly different thicknesses .
( b ) The colour of any stria as seen in the Foucault test is complementary to the colour of the central fringe in the laminary diffraction-pattern produced by it .
( c ) The colours are altered by holding the mica obliquely , or by immersing it in a cell containing liquid .
( d ) The luminosity of a stria in the Foucault test is approximately a maximum when the phases of the wave-front after passing through the plate on the two sides of the stria are opposite , and practically zero when the phases are identical .
Attempts to reproduce the phenomenon by etching glass plates with dilute hydro[luoric acid were not very successful , owing apparently to a want of sufficient sharpness in the boundary thus produced .
This i , s indicated by the fact that such a plate shows distinct asymr netry with reference to the direction of the incident light , both in the Foucault test and in laminar diffractio ( f ) The striae in mica appear doubled ( with a black line in the centre ) , when the coming to a focus is screened in a symmetrical manner , instead of by a knife-edge as in the Foucault test .
It is proposed at an early opportunity to continue the work , especially in regard to the colour and polarisation of the light diffracted through larga angles by the striae , and also to make a fuller study of the cases in which light is diffracted by a laminar boundary in an unsymmetrical manner .
The experimental work ibed in this paper was carried out in the Palit Laboratory of Physics , and the writer wishes to express his cordial thanks to Prof. C. .
Baman with whom he was associated in the preliminary observations of the colours of the striae in mica , and at whose suggestion he undertook the detailed investigation of the phenomenon .
He also wishes to thank Dr. Gilbert Walker , F.B.S. , for his kind interest in the research and for bringing it before the Royal Society .

