January 19 , 1854 .
CHARLES WHEATSTONE , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " On the Geometrical Representation of the Expansive Action of Heat , and the Theory of Thermo-dynamic Engines .
" By William John Macquorn Rankine , Civil Engineer , F.R.S.S. Lond. and Edinb .
&amp;c. Received December 5 , 1853 .
The author remarks , that if abscissae be measured from an origin of rectangular coordinates , re presenting the volumes assumed by an elastic substance , and if ordinates , at right angles to those abscissae , be taken to denote the corresponding expansive pressures exerted by the substance ; then any succession of changes of pressure and volume may be represented geometrically by the coordinates of a curve .
If such a curve have two extremities , the areaicluded between the curve and the ordinates let fallI fom its extremities will represent ( when positive ) the expansive power given out by the substance during the process represented by the curve .
Should the curve be closed , returning into itself , so as to denote a cycle of periodiqalchanges of pressure and volume , then will the area , enclosed within the curve , represent ( when positive ) the expansive power given out : during one cycle of changes .
This area is positive when increase of volume takes:place on the whole at greater pressures than diminution of volume .
The area of such a closed curve represents also ( when positive ) the mechanical equivalent of theheat which permanently disappears , or is converted into expansive power , during a cycle of changes , for were it not so , the sum of energy in the universe would be changed , , which is impossible .
As the principles of the expansive action of heat are capable of being presented to the mind moreclearly by the aid of diagrams of energy thanby means of words and symbols alone , such diagrams are applied , in the present paper , partly to the illustration and demonstration of propositions previously proved by other means , but chiefly to the solution of new questions , especially those relating to the theory of thermo-dynamic engines .
Throughout the whole of this paper , quantities of heat are expressed , not by units of temperature in an unit of weight of water , but by equivalent quantities of mechanical power , stated in footpounds according to the ratio established by Mr. Joule 's experiments on friction ( Phil. Trans. 1850 ) , that is to say , 772 foot-pounds per degree of Fahrenheit , or 1389'6 f6ot-pounds per Centigrade degree , applied to one pound of liquid water at atmospheric temperatures .
A curve described on a diagram of energy , such that its ordinates represent the pressures of a homogeneous substance corresponding to various volumes of an unit of weight , while the total sensible or actual beat ( Q ) present in an unit of weight of the substance , is maintained at a constant value ( Q1 ) , may be called the sothermal Curve of Q , for the given substance .
Its equation is Q=Q1 .
If an unit of weight of a substance be allowed to expand , under a pressure equal to its own elasticity , without receiving oremitting heat , its actual heat will diminish during the expansion , and its pressure will diminish more rapidly than it would do if the actual heat were maintained constant .
A curve whose coordinates represent this mode of variation of pressure and volume may becalled a Curve of no Transmission of Heata For every suchcurve a certain unection of pressure , volume and actual heat , called a Thermo .
die , nam7c Function ( F ) , has a constant value ( F , ) proper to the parti cular curve under consideration ; whosei equation is therefore A curve whose coordinates represent the relation between pressure and volume when the substance is absolutely destitute of heat , may be called the Curve of Absolute Cold , :It is at once an isothermal curve and a curve of no transmission , and is an asymptote to all the other curves of both those kinds , which approach it indefinitely as the substance expands without limit .
The whole theory of the expansive action of heat is comprehended in the geometrical properties and mutual relations of those two classes of curves ; and all those properties and relations are the consequences of and are virtually expressed by the two following theo .
rems : THEOREM I.-The mechanical equivalent of the heat absorbed or given out by a substance in passing from one given state as to pressure and volume to another given state , through a series of states represented by the coordinates of a giiren curve on a diagram of energy , is represented by the area included between the given curve and two curves of no transmission drawn from its extremities , and indefinitely prolonged in the direction representing increase of volume .
THEOREM Il.-If across any pair of curves of no transmission on a diagram of energy there be drawnany series of isothermal curves at intervals corresponding to equal differences of actual heat , the series of quadrilateral areas thus cut offfrom the space between the curves of no transmission will be all equal to each 'other .
These two propositions are the : geometrical representation of the application , to the particular case of heat and expansive power , of two axioms respecting Energy in the abstract , viz.- .
AxIOM I.--The sum of energy in the Universe is unalterable .
AXIOM II.-The effect , in causing transformation of energy , of the whole quantity of actual energy present in a substance , is the sum of the effects of all its parts .
The application of these axioms to heat and expansive power involves the following DEFINITION.-Expansive Heat is a species of actual Energy , the presence of which in a substance affects , and in general increases , its tendency to expand ; and this definition , arrived at by induction from experience , is the foundation of the theory of the expansive action of heat .
'he first section of the paper is occupied chiefly with the demonstration of the first of the theorems quoted and its immediate consequences , which are applicable to all substances , homogeneous and heterogeneous .
The second section relates to the theory of the expansive action of heat in homogeneous substances .
From the second theorem above quoted , it is deduced , that the area of any quadrilateral bounded above and below by any two isothermal curves , and laterally by two curves of no transmission , is the product of the difference between the two quantities of actual..~ ~~~~~~~~~~~w Lu : -io i heat proper to the isothermal curves , -by the difference between the two thermo-dynamic functions proper to the curves of no transmission , being represented by an expression of this form , ( Q1Q ) .
( FB.- ; ) .
While the area of a figure bounded above by the isothermal curve of Q1 , and laterally by the indefinitely-extended curves of no transmission corresponding to the thermo-dynamic functions F , , F , , is represented by Qi(FB-FA ) .
The area of a diagram of energy of any figure is calculated conceiving it to be divided , by a network of isothermal curves and curves of no transmission , into an indefinite number of stripes or quadrilaterals , finding the area of each and adding them by summation or integration .
By the aid of these principles various problems are solved .
In the third section the same principles are applied to determine the efficiency of thermo-dynamic engines worked by the expansion and contraction of permanent gases without and with the aid of economisers or regenerators .
The efficiency of a thermo-dynamic engine is the proportion of the whole heat communicated to the working substance which is converted into motive power .
The maximum theoretical efficiency of a thermo-dynamic engine working between the limits of actual heat Q1 and Q2 , whether without a regenerator or with a perfect regenerator , is expressed by the fraction Ql--Q2 Q , A theoretically perfect regenerator does not increase the maximum efficiency between given limits of actual heat , but merely enables that efficiency to be attained with a smaller extent of expansion , and consequently with a smaller engine .
The fourth section treats of the relation between actual heat and temperature , which must be known before the propositions of the preceding sections can be applied to actual substances .
Existing experimental data are not yet adequate to the exact determination of this relation ; but it is considered they are sufficient to show that a relation deduced by the author from the Hypothesis of Molecular Vortices ( see Trans. of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , vol. xx .
) , is at least near enough to the truth for all purposes connected with the computation of the efficiency of thermo-dynamic engines .
This relation is expressed by the formula Q= h(T + To ) where T is temperature , measured from the melting-point of ice ; To , the height of the melting-point of ice above the point of total privation of heat ; and i , the mechanical value of the real specific heat of the substance .
According to computations made in 1852 2S* by the author from experiments by Messrs. Thomson and Joule , '1'=2721 ?
Centigrade=4901 ?
Fahrenheit , a value which may be considered sufficiently correct for practical purposes .
'lThe maximum theoretical efficiency of every conceivable thermodynamic engine receiving heat at the temperature T , , and giving out heat at the temperature 'Tr , is Ql -Q2_T -T , 4Ql ' , r +'To'I The fourth section concludes with a system of formule , illustrated by numerical examples , for computing the power and efficiency of air-engines .
In the fifth section , the principles of the preceding sections are applied to aggregates consisting of heterogeneous substances , or of the same substance in different conditions , especially the aggregate of a liquid and its vapour ; and the results are applied to the numerical computation of the theoretical efficiency of steam-engines .

