]\gt ; On the of Green Leaf in Still Moving Air .
ByHORACE T. BROWN , .D .
, F.RS .
, and W. E. WILSON , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received January 9 , \mdash ; Read March 23 , 1905 .
the Phvsical Laboratory of the Daramona Observatory , Westmeath , Ireland .
During the recent ation of the energetics of a foliage leaf , was necessary to acquire some knowledge of the rate of interchange of heat between the leaf-lamina and its surroundings for a known excess of temperature , and under given conditions as regards the movement of the surrounding air .
It was required , in fact , to determine with some approach to accuracy , Ghe emissivity in air in absolute units , this term the loss of heat due both to radiation and the conductive and convective properties of the air .
The thermal emissivity is an important factor in the economy of the living plant , since it determines both the maximum temperature to which the leaf can be raised above its surroundings in those cases where the incident radiation is more than sufficient to perform the internal work of the leaf , and also the extent to which the leaf can be cooled below its surroundings when the receipt of radiant energy falls short of that required to produce the observed internal work .
There are comparatively few determinations in absolute units of thermal emissivity of bodies cooling in air , and the results of experiments such as those of McFarlane on the cooling of a copper ball , or those cf J. T. Bottomley , Schleiermacher , and Ayrton and ] gour on the emissivity of platinum wires , cannot be rendered applicable to our requirements , in the first place to the nature of the emitting substances differing so widely from that of a leaflamina , and secondly to the fact , emphasized by the experiments of Ayrton and Kilgour , that the loss of heat from radiation and air convection per square centimetre of surface per one degree excess of temperature is by no means constant , even for substances of a similar nature , and varies greatly with the size and shape of the cooling body .
In the absence of data from which we could deduce even the order of magnitude of the thermal emissivity of a leaf-lamina , it became necessary to attack the problem experimentally , and since the ordina1y methods employed for determining the " " rate of cooling\ldquo ; of a heated body are manifestly * See Brown and Escombe , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc this vol. , p. 29 .
Phil. Trans , vol. 183 , 1893 , p. 871 .
On the Emissivity of Green .
123 inapplicable to this particular case , we devised an indirect method has given very good results , and is capable , we believe , of still further extension refinement .
It is based on the principles:\mdash ; : A leaf which is actively tends , by a process of self-cooling , to become lower in temperature than its surroundings .
such a leaf Drs. H. T. Brown and W. E. Wilson .
[ Jan. 9 , amina tatinum cwere attached twoand olength obout 2rranged aflat gmissivi onnected weads oecording instrument berewed outer ebonite frame , suitablemeansandthesecould Two other small movable frames of ebonite were constructed , which fitted 126 Drs. H. T. Brown and W. E. Wilson .
the coils of C. ; differences of were readily measurable .
tonsider tffect rwith ieaves ather wxposed tJave , however , toby acomparison oesistances oatinum cence between transpiring 1eaves aheir etemperature difference betweenO riments wanned widea oetermining t passage of the current through them .
Mr. Francis Darwin , in a recent paper which came under our notice at the 4 time we were these experiments , described the application of the platinum-resistance-thermometer and the Callendar recorder to a study of the leaf-temperature as an index of the condition of the stomata .
With the small platinum coils he employerl , which were wound on plates of talc mm. , it was found that the current used raised the temperature of the coils about above the surrouI ) air , and that in order to avoid the difficulties introduced by inequalities in the rate of cooling , the central coil had to be covered with a " " body .
in volume and conductivity that on the experimental bulb In order to avoid as far as possible in our experiments the due to heating of the coils special precautions were taken in their construction , but the heatin .
effect was still a sensible factor when a current of amperes .
With a coil resistance of ohms the heating effect of the above-mentioned current in each coil was , i.e. , calorie per second , or calorie per minute .
The total surface area of a wire of -inch gauge and metres in length is sq .
cm .
, so that the heat produced per square centimetre of surface per second is 0.01374 calorie .
From the experiments of Ayrton and Kilgour on the thermal emissivity of bright platinum wires of -inch diameter , we know that at C. the emissivity is about calorie per square centimetre per second for a 1o excess of temperature .
Hence maximum temperature to which the bare coil will be heated in " " still air\ldquo ; by the above-men tioned current is C. * ' Botanical Gazette , ' vol. 37 , 1904 , p. 81 .
'Phil .
Irans , vol. 183 , 1893 , p. 371 .
Experimentally the temperature in still air found ) be ' COoling effect dranspiration , teady tconditioneffect oroduced beduce smissivi yuppose tlothed w is attained the leaf temperature will be somewhat higher than when no current is passing .
If the rise of temperature of this whole system when the The whole question turns ou the thermal the leaf surfaces , The total area of leaf surface exposed around the coil is sq .
cm .
, and is only less than the ternperature of the uncovered coil when The method , in fact , works very well under perfectly still air conditions , readily than the leaf-covered coil , with the result ( one to which .
Francis of the method which is free from these objections , and which is entirely independent both of any heating of the leaf by the current used , and of the If the coils are covered each with a pair of similar leaves of exactly the 128 Drs. H. T. Brown and W. E. Wilson .
to the temperature difference given by the integrated record of the drum during the time occupied by the experiment .
the ventral side .
recorded the which our experiments fully verify , that a slow and gradual closure of the stomata takes place when a cut leaf is placed in darkness .
As the stomata close the record of differential temperature on the drum of the recorder approaches more closely the zero line of no temperature difference , but it is the value with which we alone have to deal in these experiments and , providing the record is correctly integrabed , this mean temperature difference and the loss in weight of the two pairs of leaves respective ] are the only experimental data required for determining the thermal emissivity of the leaf surface in absolute units .
As an example of such an experiment performed under " " still air\ldquo ; conditions , we may give the following .
The leaf cases were placed in a covered tin case which was enclosed in an outer wooden case .
A tray calcium chloride was placed at the bottom of the tin case in order to keep the air sufficiently dry to promote transpiration .
Experiment on the ( hypostomatous ) leaves of Liriodendron tulipifera .
Temperature of air in the enclosure C. Coil.\mdash ; Leaves arranged with stomatiferous surfaces outwards .
Before set of experiments it is always necessary to verify the zero line on the drum , since this is at times subject to small varintions which are to explain .
1905 .
On the Therrnal Emissivity Leaj .
129 No. 2Cod.\mdash ; Leaves arranged with stomatiferous surfaces inwards .
Duration of experiment 2 minutes .
Area of leaf surface exposed sq .
cm .
Water lost by transpiration during experiment:\mdash ; .
No , me These emissivities all determined within a range of temperature of from to C. The iation of the coefficient of emissivity with the temperature can safely be neglected for any range of temperature to which the leaf may be subjected under natural conditions .
It is worthy of note , in passing , that in their order of magnitude , the above values correspond to the emission of heat by a blackened copper sphere 2 cm .
in diameter , in air , as determined by McFarlane .
* With a temperature difference between the copper baJl and its surroundings , he hich is arlanged with the and the other with the ventral sides outwards , the experiment can bc repeated aftel re , arlanging the leaves on one coil so that one dorsal and one ventral side is exposed .
From the difference , if any , in the emission-values so obtnined it be possible t$ ascertain the absolute emissivities of the upper and lower sides of the -ely .
* ' Roy .
Soo .
Proo vol. 20 , 1871 , p. 90 .
1905 .
th Thermal Emissivity of found that the heat emitted per second , per 1o difference of temperature , per square centimetre of surface , was calorie .
The Thermal of a Air .
In the experiments so far recorded , we have confined our attention to the ' rate of , of a leaf under ' ' still air\ldquo ; conditions , that is to say , under conditi ihielded firect draughts , movement oubjected tlight convective We have still to consider the ence of comparatively rapid air-currents It has aheady been pointed out elsewhere*that , ving to the of Before proceeding to describe our experiments in this direction we mnst refer to aprevious paper has adirect bearing on the subject .
So far as we know the only experiments which have been made on the within limits of C. tempelature excess and aspeed of air-current of 1000 metres per minute Newton 's , ' Law of Cooling\ldquo ; is accurate , provided the speed of the air-current passing the surface of the cooling body be sufficient .
' ol .
, p. 79 .
Our experiments on the influence of currents of air on the thermal emissivity of leaves were carried out on lines very similar those of Crichton-Mitchell , but owing to the differential method employed the *How relatively small a part radiation plays in cooling of a eated body in air is shown by J. T. Bottomley 's experiments Phil. Trans on the elllissivity of heated platinum wires .
From a selies of expeliments made in a high vacuum and in air at varying pressures it was found that only about 5 per cent. of the air at 740 nun .
due radiation .
Professor Crichton-Mitchell has recently laid Society of Edinburgh a preliminary account of his experiments on the cooling of a strip of platinunl under the above conditions , but at the time of iting these results are not available .
eing unnecessary i a jacke On the Thermal sslvoty of a Leaf .
In an aperture in one side of an air-tight box 3 feet cube was fixed an II exhaust electric fan , 12 inches in diameter , and driven by an attached motor , which was connected with a ulator under ready contlol .
Into the side of the box opposite the fan opened a horizontal wooden shaft 5 feet in 134 Drs. H. T. Brown and W. E. Wilson .
metres per hour ) .
emissivity under s\ldquo ; conditions oorie peast 3nent weaves oincrease iivity focity ometre pnute ientimetre outeustifi.that t per 1o C. difference of mperature between the leaf and the air .
ro 20 30 1zo mec ' per square centimetre per minute per 1o C. excess temperature , showed an emissivity of calorie in an air-current of a speed of metres per minute .
This result is also plotted in the accompanying figure , and it will be seen that the line is sensibly parallel to that by the experiments on , the of emissivity for an increased speed of 1 metre per minute being calorie , against calorie in the case of the Liriodendron .
This renders it )robable that although there small initial rences in the emissivity of leaves under " " still air\ldquo ; conditions , the influence of moving air-currents on abrous and moderately thin leaves in effecting transfel'ence of heat from and to the leaf is practically identical .
From the nitude of the thermal effects uced by moving air it will square centimetre per minute , and let us assume that the absorption coefficient of the leaf for this radiation is , and that the leaf possesses a thermal If we assume transpiration to be entirely in abeyance , the tempelature to .
surl.ounding air more than C. , even when there is no dissipation The importance of facts such as these in connection with the life-history We have shown above how it is possible to detel.mine the Let represent the amount in grammes of the water transpired square .
centimetre of leaf-lamina per minute ; tigatJrecorder eetermine amere observation oraemissivit oeavesagainst 0ossper serduring tours adifference iight seems ptVOL LXXVI -

