252 Mr. P. Geddes .
On Coalescence of [ Mar. 18 Like haemoglobin and haematin , urobilin appears to be a very unstable body , which easily splits up on treatment with reagents into decomposition products , each giving a peculiar spectrum .
III .
" On the Coalescence of Amoeboid Cells into Plasmodia , and on the so-called Coagulation of Invertebrate Fluids .
" By P. Geddes .
Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received March 13 , 1880 .
[ Plate 5 .
] AV hetlier one collects the perivisceral fluid of a sea-urehin or of a worm , or the blood of a crustacean or a mollusc , the same phenomenon is always more or less distinctly to be observed .
A kind of coagulation takes place , the fluid separating sooner or later into two portions , which have considerable superficial resemblance to the clot and serum of vertebrate blood .
It is easy to watch the formation of the clot by placing a drop of fresh-drawn fluid upon a cover-glass and inverting this above a glass cell , of which the edge is oiled to prevent evaporation .
The drop thus hangs freely and the coagulation can go on without interference .
The phenomena observed in various invertebrates are best understood by reference to the plate .
Fig. 1 represents some of the groups into Avhich the amoeboid corpuscles of the perivisceral fluid of the earthworm run immediately after drawing .
In fig. 2 we have a few adjacent corpuscles from the gill of in fig. 3 they are commencing to adhere ; in 4 and 5 their adhesion is complete ; in fig. 6 they have all but completely merged into one mass , which is about to absorb a new-comer ; in figs. 8 and 9 the mass is now completely homogeneous , is altering its form and throwing out pseudopodia in all directions .
Figs. 10\#151 ; 12 represent the similar union of corpuscles of Patella , and figs. 13 , 14 those of Buccinum .
In Pagurus the corpuscles are of two very markedly different kinds , the coarsely and the finely granular .
The former are much elongated when freshly drawn , but rapidly become oat- or egg-shaped , and then throw out blunt pseudopodia from any part of their surface .
These stages are represented in fig. 15 .
The finely granular corpuscles , drawn separately at fig. 16 , send out filamentous pseudopodia , and alone possess the power of rinion .
Fig. 17 represents a small clot , formed by the union of the finely granular corpuscles , and containing a number of coarsely granular corpuscles , which do not merge into the surrounding mass .
The large pseudopodial process of hyaline ectoplasm on the left of the figure is worthy of notice .
Figs. 18\#151 ; 23 show the union of five of the finely granular corpuscles 1880 ] Amoeboid Cells into , of the common shore-crab ( Carcinusmcenas ) .
Fig. 24 represents a few of both kinds of corpuscles of Cancer , and fig. 25 a small dot formed by the union of the finely granular corpuscles .
In fig. 26 are represented some of the corpuscles of the common starfish ( Astera-canthion vulgar ) , showing the curious looped pseudopodia usual among the Echinoderms .
Figs. 27 and 28 are successive drawings of a group of uniting corpuscles from the same preparation .
As in fig. 17 , the development of large pseudopodia from the completely fused mass is evident .
But it is among the Eehinoidea* that the phenomena of corpuscular fusion occur on the most extraordinary scale .
A good specimen of Echinus sphmra furnishes perivisceral fluid enough to fill an ordinary tumbler .
The fluid is at first homogeneous and of a uniform pinkish grey tint , but rapidly becomes cloudy .
The cloud contracts constantly , and so becomes gradually darker and of more defined form , and in the course of a few hours shrinks into a small brown pellet .
When a drop of this fresh fluid is examined in the moist chamber , it is seen to contain , in addition to its coloured amoeboid corpuscles , the same two types of colourless corpuscles , the coarsely and the finely granular , as have just been described in Pagurus ( figs. 15 and 16 ) .
Here too the clot is entirely due to the union of the finely granular corpuscles , which almost instantly run into small heaps , these into larger , and larger ones , and so on until we have a vast amoeboid mass , which rapidly differentiates into endoplasm and ectoplasm , the former containing the nuclei and granules of the constituent corpuscles , and the latter , produced by the union of their hyaline ectoplasm , forming a broad clear margin , and sending out pseudopodia , sometimes blunt , but usually filamentous .
These pseudopodia frequently run out over such distances that an adequate idea of their extraordinary size could scarcely be given within the limits of the entire plate .
The resemblance of all these cases of the fusion of amoeboid cells taken from so many types of Invertebrata is too close to be accidental .
All the evidence points to the conclusion that the clot which appears in any invertebrate corpusculate fluid is formed , always partly , and sometimes wholly , by the fusion of the finely granular amoeboid corpuscles therein suspended .
" !
" Thus , while the blood of a lobster is still capable of clotting after removal of the corpuscles by filtration ( Fredericq ) , the perivisceral fluid of a sea-urchin is not .
* A detailed account of the corpuscles of , \amp ; c. , will shortly appear in the " Archives de Zoologie Experimentale .
" t With regard to the amoeboid corpuscles of vertebrates , I have not yet been able to make any satisfactory observations .
Ziegler has concluded from his researches on the formation of giant cells in exudation liquids .
( Exp. Untersuch .
ueber d. Herkunft d. Tuberkeelmente , \amp ; c. , Wurzburg , 1875 ) that a coalescence of amoeboid cells does actually sometimes take place .
254 On Coalescence of Amoeboid Cells into Plasmodia .
[ Mar. IS It is impossible to avoid comparing the above-described unions of amoeboid cells with those occurring in the ordinary life-history of the Myxomycetes , * and the resemblance is so complete that it seems not only convenient , bat necessary to extend the term to the former .
The formation of plasmodia was at first supposed to be peculiar to the Myxomycetes , but several Rhizopods ( , Phonergates , \amp ; c. ) have been described , in which a more or less complete cell-fusion has been observed , or perhaps , as I am disposed to think , cell-fusion has been more or less completely observed .
After comparing the descriptions and drawings of these formsf ( see Buck 's figures of Phonergates , copied in the Plate , figs. 80\#151 ; 33 ) with those of uniting corpuscles already given , the identity of the process of coalescence in the two cases with each other , and with that of a Myxomycete , will be sufficiently obvious .
Finally , although much further observation is desirable , alike upon the undifferentiated cells of Vertebrates and Invertebrates , and upon the lowest plants and animals , it may be safely asserted that all the evidence we possess points to the conclusion that the power of coalescing with its fellows , under favourable circumstances , to form a plasmodium , is at any rate a very widely-spread , if not a general property of the amoeboid cell .
The observations were chiefly made last summer at the Scottish Zoological Station at Stonehaven .
EXPLANATION OE THE PLATE .
I ig .
1 .
Corpuscles of perivisceral fluid of commencing to unite .
Eigs .
2 9 .
Eight successive drawings of the same group of corpuscles ( ) .
Eigs .
10\#151 ; 12 .
Union of group of corpuscles ( Figs. 13\#151 ; 14 .
Union of group of corpuscles ( undatum ) .
Eig .
15 .
Coarsely granular corpuscles { Pagur 1 ig .
16 .
Finely granular corpuscles of same animal .
lig .
17 .
Small plasmodium { Pagurns Bernhardus ) formed from finely granular corpuscles , and containing several coarsely granular corpuscles in its interior .
Eigs .
18\#151 ; 23 .
Union of group of corpuscles I ig .
24 .
Group of coarsely and finely granular corpuscles of Cancer Pagurus .
* Sachs .
" A Textbook of Botany .
" lie Bary .
" Die Mycetozoons .
" " Zeitseh .
f. Wiss .
Zool. " Bd .
X. 1860 .
f R. Hertwig .
" Ueber Microgromia soci eine Colonie bildende Monathalamie des siissen Wassers .
" " Archiv .
f. Mikros .
Anat .
" Bd .
X. Taf .
1 .
1874 .
L. Cienkowski .
" Ueber einige Rhizopoden und vervrandte Organismen .
" " Archiv .
f. Mikros .
Anat .
" Bd .
XII .
1876 .
E. Buck .
" Einige Rhizopodenstudien .
" " Zeitscb .
f. Wiss .
Zool. " Bd .
XXX .
1878 .
Taf .
2 .
\amp ; edde\#163 ; - ProcRoySoo .
Vol. PL .
.\gt ; 1/ fest , JLfew~rruz*i%c .
Co. Ijcth* .
|ggO ] History of Planet and Single Satellite .
JL 25 .
Plasmodium ( Cancer Pagwrus ) .
j , .
26 Corpuscles of Asteracanthion vulgar , freshly drawn .
IF 27\#151 ; 28 .
Union of a group of corpuscles of Asteracanthion vulgar .
1 ?
29 .
Portion of a plasmodium produced by the union of the finely granular \#166 ; f ' corpuscles of Echinus sphcera , showing distinct endoplasm containing the coarsely granular and the coloured corpuscles , and ectoplasm sending out filamentous pseudopodia , which unite with those of free corpuscles .
Fi"s- 30_88 .
Phonergates vorax , from " Zeitsch .
f. Wiss .
Zool. " Bd .
XXX .
1878 .
Taf .
II , figs. 54-57 .
All the figures drawn with Yericl , Oc .
2 , Ohj .
7 .
IV .
" On the Analytical Expressions which give the History of a Fluid Planet of Small Viscosity , attended by a Single Satellite/ ' By G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. Received March 6 , 1880 .
In a series of papers read from time to time during the past two years before the Royal Society , I have investigated the theory of the tides raised in a rotating viscous Spheroid , or planet , by an attendant satellite , and have also considered the secular changes in the rotation of the planet , and in the revolution of the satellite .
Those investigations were intended to be especially applicable to the case of the earth and moon , but the friction of the solar tides was found to be a factor of importance , so that in a large part of those papers it became necessary to conceive the planet as attended by two satellites .
The differential equations which gave the secular changes in the system were rendered very complex by the introduction of solar disturbance , and I was unable to integrate them analytically ; the equations were accordingly treated by a method of numerical quadratures , in which all the data were taken from the earth , moon , and mm , This numerical treatment did not permit an insight into all the various effects which might result from frictional tides , and an analytical solution , applicable to any planet and satellite , is desirable .
In the present paper such an analytical solution is found , and is interpreted graphically .
But the problem is considered from a point of view which is at once more special and more general than that of I the previous papers .
The point of view is more general in that the planet may here be conceived to have any density and mass whatever , and to be rotating with any angular velocity , provided that the ellipticity of figure is not large , and that the satellite may have any mass , and may be revolving about its planet , either consentaneously with or adversely to the planetary rotation .
On the other hand , the problem here considered is more special in that the planet is supposed to be a spheroid of fluid of small viscosity ; that the obliquity of the planet 's equator , the inclina-

