XIII .
An Account of the sinking of the Dutch Frigate Ambuscade , of g$ Guns , near the Great Nor ; with the Mode used in recovering her .
By Mr. Joseph Whidbey , Master Attendant in Sheerness Dock rard .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read April 28 , 18og .
AT eight o'clock in the morning of the gth day of July , 1801 , the Dutch frigate Ambuscade left the moorings in Sheerness harbour , her fore-sail , top-sails , and top-gallant-sails being set , with the wind aft , blowing strong .
In about thirty minutes , she went down by the head , near the Great Nor ; not giving the crew time to take in the sails , nor the pilot or officers more than four minutes notice , before she sunk ; by which unfortunate event , twenty-two of the crew were drowned .
This extraordinary accident was owing to the hawse-holes being extremely large and low , the hawse-plugs not being in , and the holes being pressed under water by a crowd of sail on the ship , through which a sufficient body of water got in , unperceived , to carry her to the bottom .
The instant she sunk , she rolled over to windward across the tide , and lay on her beam ends ; so that , at low water , the muzzles of the main deck guns were a little out of the water , and pointed to the zenith , with 32 feet of water round her .
The first point I had to gain , was to get her upright .
Before I could accomplish it , I was obliged to cut away her fore-mast , and main-top-mast ; which had no effect , until the mizzenmast -was also cut away ; she then instantly lifted her side , so that , at low water , the lee railing on the quarter deck was visible .
By proceeding in this manner , the first part of my object was obtained , with a secured main-mast , and all its rigging , to enable me , should I be fortunate enough to weigh the ship , to lighten her by it with the greatest possible expedition .
The ship being in the forementioned state , gave me an opportunity , the next low water , to get out her quarter , forecastle , and some of her main-deck guns , with a variety of other articles .
I next proceeded to slin her ; which was done with two nineteen-inch cables , divided into eight equal parts .
The larboard side of the ship being so much higher than the starboard , enabled me to clench each of the ends round two of the ports , excepting one that was clenched round the main-mast ; and , with great difficulty , by long rods and diving , I got small lines rove through four of the ports on the starboard side , by which means , I got four of the cables through those ports across her deck , which were clenched to the main-mast and larboard side , having four ends on each side completely fast , at equal distances from each other .
I brought the Broederscarp , of io63 tons burden , out of the harbour , which received the four ends on the starboard side ; also four lighters , of ioo tons each , which took in the other four ends , on the larboard side , over their bows .
All the eight ends were at low water hove down with great power , by a purchase lashed distinctly on each of them , I then laid down two g3-inch cables , spliced together , with an anchor of 8t3 24 cwt .
in a direction with the ship 's keel .
On the end of the cable next the frigate a block was lashed , through which was rove a 9-inch hawser , one end of which was made fast to the ship ; the other end was brought to a capstan on board the Broederscarp , and hove on it as much as it would bear , with an intention to relieve the frigate from the powerful effect of cohesion , This had so far the desired effect that , at about half flood , I perceived the ship to draw an end , and swing to the tide ; and all the slings were considerably relieved .
At high water , she was completely out of her bed .
At the next low water , I hove all the purchases down again .
At half flood she floated ; and the whole group drove together into the harbour , a distance of three miles , and grounded the frigate on the west side of it .
It took me two tides more to lift her on the shore , sufficiently high to pump her out ; which was then done with ease , and the ship completely recovered , without the smallest damage whatever , either to her bottom or her sides .
I do not apprehend there is any thing new in the mode I adopted in weighing the Ambuscade , excepting the idea of removing the effect of cohesion , by the process before described ; and I have every reason to think , that if that principle had been acted on , in the attempt made to weigh the Royal George , it would have succeeded .
I am , &amp;c. EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES .
Plate V. Represents the Ambuscade Dutch frigate , as weighed from the east end of the Middle Sand , near the Great Nor , on the i7th of July , 1801 .
Fig. i. Broederscarp Dutch hulk .
Fig. 2 .
Chain lighter .
Fig. - .
Goodwill , Medway , and Sheerness , sailing lighters .
Fig. 4 .
The frigate Ambuscade .
Fig. 5 .
Section of ditto , showing her position , with the height of water , as marked by the dotted line , at low water ; the tide rising sixteen feet .
Fig. 6 .
Cohesion cable , of 13 inches ; soo fathoms in lengths Fig. 7 .
Anchor of 24 cwt .

