68 Dr. E. J. Mills .
On Chemical Reptdsion .
[ Jan. 15 , January 15 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Chemical Repulsion .
" By Edmund J. Mills , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received January 8 , 1880 .
While engaged in some researches on the propagation of chemical change , I have incidentally encountered a new order of phenomena , which the title " chemical repulsion " may serve provisionally to designate .
A brief outline of the experiments is given in the following paragraphs .
Upon a glass plate , laid in a horizontal position , is poured enough solution of baric chloride to cover it completely to a considerable depth .
On this solution is placed another glass plate , provided with a small central perforation ; when the two plates are firmly pressed together with the hands , most of the solution is extruded , and only a very thin layer of it left between the plates .
All excess of the solution having been removed from the outer surfaces of the plates as well as from the perforation , some dilute hydric sulphate is now introduced into the perforation .
This reagent attacks the baric chloride , throwing down a white precipitate of sulphate ; and , proceeding partly by diffusion , partly by flow , does not cease to widen in every direction its figure of advance , until the edges of the plates are attained .
If the perforation is circular , the figure of advance is circular ; in other words , the chemical development of a circle is a circle .
Let us now suppose the two plates to be square and\#171 ; equal , and let the upper one have two circular perforations , equidistant from the centre of the square , and situated upon its diagonal .
Let also two circular developments of baric sulphate be caused to proceed , as before , from the two perforations simultaneously .
At first , nothing remarkable is observed ; but in a short time , the two growing circles begin to exercise a visible retardation on each other 's progress ; so that the figure of advance is no longer circular , but oval .
[ This retardation is of course observed only between the perforations ; and not outside them , where the motion is entirely free .
] As the development of the figures 1880 .
] Dr. E. J. Mills .
On Chemical Repulsion .
69 continues , so also does the retardation at their neighbouring edges increase ; the final result being ( however long the experiment may be prolonged ) , that the other diagonal of the square is completely and permanently traced out in a line of no chemical action .
The above experiments are of fundamental importance , and they obviously admit of endless variety Of this , a few illustrations may suffice .
If the upper plate have three perforations , situated on the points of a central equilateral triangle , there are three repulsion lines ; these end at the centre of the triangle , where they form a trilocular point , and traverse its sides midway at right angles .
When the upper plate has four perforations , situated on the points of a central square , there are four repulsion lines ; these end at the centre of the square , where they form a quadrilocular point , and traverse its sides midway at right angles .
A very beautiful modification of the preceding experiment consists in simultaneously developing a circle from a ( fifth ) central perforation .
This last circle has no means of escape from the surrounding four .
The result is , that it eventually forms a square figure bounded by repulsion lines , and having four symmetrically situated repulsion lines at its corners .
It is easy to demonstrate that the chemical repulsion in these experiments does not depend upon flow .
Two superimposed triangular plates for instance , in neither of which is any perforation , give three repulsion lines on immersion in dilute hydric sulphate .
From each comer a line proceeds midway ( if the triangle be equilateral ) to the centre .
In this effect , diffusion is alone concerned .
In addition to hydric sulphate and baric chloride , other pairs of reagents may be used with success ; and I anticipate no difficulty in obtaining results in which precipitation is not concerned .
A beginning has also been made with experiments in tridimensional development .
The complete explanation of what I have termed " chemical repulsion , " will probably demand a varied and considerable amount of experimental work .
From some incidents of the investigation , so far as it has hitherto proceeded , I am disposed to believe that the motion in any plane\#171 ; chemical figure is not along the radius , but at right angles to the radius ; and this supposition will , if verified , explain the repulsion .
The existing results afford proof of the following propositions , viz. :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Chemical action can take place at a distance ; and ( 2 .
) Two or more chemical actions identical except in , completely exclude one another .

