354 Mr. A. Sedgwick .
[ May 21 , V. " The Development of Peripatus By Adam Sedgwick , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received May 9 , 1885 .
The development of Peripatus capensis was first studied by-Moseley , who stopped for a short time at the Cape in November and December some years ago .
His observations related only to a few stages comparatively late in development .
Balfour , in 1882 , found some younger embryos in specimens collected by Mr. Lloyd Morgan in July and August .
He had only time to make a very few observations , of which he left a short record in the form of four rough drawings and a short note , and a letter to Prof. Kleinenberg , before starting on his last expedition to Switzerland .
His observations were so interesting that they were made the subject of a short com-munication to the Royal Society in the autumn of 1882 , and they were slightly extended by the editors of his last work on the anatomy of Peripatus capensis , and published with that monograph in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science " in the spring of 1883 .
The subject seemed so important that the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society granted , in the spring of 1883 , the sum of \#163 ; 100 to enable me to go to the Cape for the purpose of obtaining well-preserved embryos , and of studying the development on fresh specimens .
Accordingly , I went to the Cape in the summer of 1883 , arriving early in July , and remaining till the middle of August .
I obtained a large number of specimens , and brought back with me over 300 alive .
Some of the latter lived at Cambridge till the following July .
The results of my observations at the Cape and after my return to England have been to show that the embryos remain thirteen months in the uterus ; that the fertilised ova pass into the uterus in April , and the young are born , fully developed , in the May of the year following .
That is to say , the young ova pass into the uterus one month before last year 's young are born .
I was not prepared for this , and I did not , in 1884 , examine my specimens for the early stages until May , when the young were being born .
The result was that I missed last year the early stages of development , and had it not been for the kindness of Mr. Walter Heape , who went to South Africa last summer , and who collected and brought back some more live specimens , I should have been obliged to leave the early stages undescribed .
Thanks to him , however , and to my experience gained last year , I have this April been able to find several of the younger stages , and to complete my .observations .
The testes are fully developed and charged with ripe spermatozoa 1885.1 The Development of Peripatus Capensis .
in onr autumn , when the males deposit spermatophors quite casually all over the body of the female , and continue to do so until about January ( perhaps a little later ) .
The ovaries always contain spermatozoa , but in smaller numbers , directly after the eggs have passed into the oviduct , than at any other time .
How the spermatozoa pass up the uterus and oviducts , which are always full of embryos , generally containing as many as thirty to forty , I do not know .
Fertilisation is apparently effected in the ovary .
The fertilised ova pass into the oviduct in April , while the uterus is still full of embryos almost ready for birth .
Segmentation and the early stages of development take place in the oviduct , where the eggs remain until May , when the young are born .
They then pass into the uterus to remain there until the following May .
The ripe ovum is elliptical in shape , and of a dark colour by transmitted light .
The opacity is due to the presence of granules ( food yolk ) .
It is enclosed , when in the oviduct and uterus , by a transparent structureless membrane , which is derived apparently from the follicular cells surrounding the ovarian ovum .
Segmentation is complete .
The first furrow is in the transverse plane of the ovum and divides it into two halves .
The second furrow is at right angles to the first , and divides each of the first formed segments into two .
Then each segment divides into two , one small and one large segment .
There are thus four small segments lying close together on one side of the egg and four large segments .
The former give rise to the ectoderm , and the latter to the endoderm .
The subsequent division of these two kinds of cells proceeds independently .
At the end of the segmentation , the ovum consists of a number of large endoderm cells scattered irregularly within the egg membrane , while the ectoderm cells form a mosaic of cells closely applied together and placed close to the membrane on one side at about the middle of the long axis of the egg .
The endoderm cells now draw together and form a solid mass of cells on which the ectoderm rests like a cap. The ectoderm then grows round the endoderm cells , and completely encloses them , excepting at one point ( opposite to that on which the ectoderm cap was placed ) .
The embryo thus acquires a spherical form , and consists of a solid gastrula , the small uncovered spot of endoderm constituting the blastopore .
A cavity then appears in the centre of the endoderm cells , and this cavity opens to the exterior through the blastopore .
' The embryo now becomes slightly elliptical , and the blastopore also elongates in the direction of the long axis .
356 Mr. A. Sedgwick .
[ May 21 , An opacity appears at the hind end of the blastopore .
This opacity is the primitive streak .
It appears to be dne to the active proliferation of some cells , which cannot be definitely assigned either to the ectoderm or the endoderm , at the hind end of the blastopore .
This stage , which has already been described as stage A in Balfour 's Memoir on Peripatus ( " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , " vol. 23 , Plate 20 , fig. 34 ) , is found most commonly at about the middle of June .
The embryo now grows considerably in length , the blastopore presenting a corresponding elongation , and the mesoderm , which arises from the proliferation of the undifferentiated cells of the primitive streak , grows forward as two ventro-lateral bands , one on each side of the blastopore .
The mesodermal bands next divide by transverse division from before backwards into somites , which contain a cavity , part of the future body cavity .
The first somite to appear is the anterior , and then successively backwards .
The blastopore now divides into two parts by the obliteration of its median portion into an anterior part which becomes the mouth of the adult , and a posterior part which is at first placed at some little distance from the hind end of the embryo and gives rise to the anus of the adult.* The primitive streak still persists and extends from the hind end of the blastopore to the hind end of the embryo .
It is now marked by a groove\#151 ; the primitive groove .
The anterior pair of somites have shifted forward to quite the anterior end of the body ; they give rise to the mesoderm and body cavity of the prseoral lobes .
This stage has already been described and figured as stage D in Balfour 's memoir ( op .
cit. , Plate 20 , fig. 37 ) .
The hind end of the body now becomes curved ventrally .
The beginning of this curve is shown in the figure of stage E in Balfour 's memoir ( Plate 20 , fig. 38 ) .
The curve is produced by the growth of the hind end of the body .
As this growth proceeds the curve becomes more marked , and assumes a spiral form , that is to say , the hind end of the body is spirally coiled , the coil being applied to the ventral face of the anterior part of the body .
( Vide Moseley 's figure in the " Phil Trans. , " vol. 164 , Plate 75 , fig. 1 .
) * There is no structure in the embryos of Peripatus capensis corresponding to the amnion or placenta described by v. Xennel in the West Indian species ( Semper s Arbeiten , " Bd .
7 ) .
The early stages of that species are obviously difficult to follow , and have not been entirely made out by that observer .
I think it , therefore , better not to offer any criticisms on his statements , particularly those with regard to the amnion , until his observations have been either extended or confirmed .
( May 25 , 1885 .
) 1885 .
] The Development of Peripatus Capensis .
357 The spiral soon straightens out , and the embryo becomes bent double , the ventral surface of the hind part of the body being applied to the ventral surface of the front portion , the tail end of the embryo being curled round the front end of the head .
The bend occurs at the level of the 8th somite .
This stage has been figured by Moseley !
( " Phil Trans. , " vol. 164 , Plate 75 , fig. 4 ) .
i The embryo gains this form at the beginning of October , and retains it until birth .
The most important internal changes take place between the stage called B and this stage .
The spiral stage is characterised by the presence of the full number of somites , the disappearance of the 'primitive streak , and the shifting of the anus to the hind end of the body .
The appendages also begin to appear in this stage .
They arise as hollow processes of the body wall , containing prolongations of the somites .
The first pair to appear are the antennae , into which the praeoral somites are prolonged .
The remainder appear from before backwards in regular order , viz. , jaws , oral papillae , legs , 1 , 2 , . . .
17 , and the rudimentary anal papillae which are the appendages of the last , i.e. , the 21st somite .
The end of the spiral stage is also characterised by the appearance of the buccal fold or fold which encloses the jaws and buccal cavity , and so constitutes the tumid lips of the adult .
This is a fold of the side walls of the body immediately outside the jaws , and extending from the praeoral lobe of its side to just behind the jaw .
This is most marked in front , which fact led Moseley to describe it as a backward process of the praeoral lobe .
I now pass to the internal changes , by which the various organs are established .
The Ectoderm .
The ectoderm , excepting at the points where it gives rise to the nervous system , is always one-layered .
During stage E the cells on the median portions of the dorsal and ventral surfaces are extremely flat ; those on the sides are columnar , and especially so over the ventral parts of the sides of the body .
Here indeed the ectoderm becomes during the spiral stage more than one cell thick , and gives rise to a thickening extending along the whole length of the body , passing forward on each side of the mouth on to the praeoral lobes .
Nervous System.\#151 ; The entire central nervous system develops from these continuous ventro-lateral thickenings of the ectoderm .
The ventral nerve cords and oesophageal commissures arise from the deeper rounded elements of the thickenings as two ventro-lateral cords , which in front of the mouth are still continuous with the ectoderm .
The nervous ectodermal thickenings in front of the mouth are enormously developed , even during the spiral stage , and the nervous 358 Mr. A. Sedgwick .
[ May 21 , rudiments in this region remain connected with the surface ectoderm much longer than do those of the hinder parts of the body .
In fa\lt ; 3^ it may be said that the prseoral part of the central nervous system never does separate from the ectoderm which gives it inasmuch as the latter is invaginated in the form of two longitudinal furrows , which soon become deeper , and eventually closed , in exactly the same manner that the medullary groove of a vertebrate embryo is closed .
Two closed vesicles thus originate , one for each of the future cerebral ganglia .
These vesicles are lined by ectoderm , and by that particular ectoderm from which the nerve elements of the ganglia originate : they persist throughout life as the small hollow appendages of the oesophageal ganglia , described and figured by Balfour in his memoir ( op .
cit. , Plate 17 , figs. C , D ) .
The eyes arise as invaginations of the sides of the nervous thickenings of the prseoral lobes during the spiral stage .
The invaginations are at first shallow , but soon become deeper , and eventually converted into closed vessels , the front wall of which ( i.e. , the wall next the skin ) forms the epithelium outside the so-called lens of the adult eye , while the internal wall thickens , and remains continuous with the cerebral ganglion , and gives rise to the retina .
The enclosed vesicle persists and apparently becomes filled by the structureless lens of the adult eye , if the structure described as such be not a mere coagulum produced by reagents .
The eye of Peripatus is therefore a cerebral eye .
Stomodaeum and Proctodsenm.\#151 ; The ectoderm grows inwards for a short distance , at the front and hind ends of the alimentary canal .
The anterior ingrowth gives rise to the lining of the pharynx , and possibly\#151 ; but of this I am hot yet certain\#151 ; the oesophagus of the adult .
The buccal cavity of the adult is formed , as I have already pointed out , by a fold of the integument which encloses the jaw and external openings of the salivary gland .
The posterior ingrowth forms the lining of the rectum .
The Endoderm .
The endoderm arises from the large segmentation cells which arrange themselves round a cavity , the future mesenteron .
The mesenteron , from its very first appearance , opens to the exterior .
This opening or blastopore gives , as described above , to the permanent front and hind openings of the alimentary canal .
The mesenteron possesses no glandular appendages of any kind whatsoever .
The Mesoderm .
The mesoderm arises , as described above , from the undifferentiated cells of the primitive streak of the early stages .
It is completely 1885.1 The Development of Peripatus Capensis .
359 established by the spiral stage , .when the primitive streak vanishes , and the anus shifts to the hind end of the body .
In the original account of the early stages in Balfour 's memoir , it was stated by the editors Ip .
256 ) that the greater portion of the mesoderm was formed from the primitive streak .
I am now in a position to state that the whole of the mesoderm originates in this manner .
On the view that the primitive streak is the remains of a portion of the blastopore and the ingrowth of cells from it a modified development of that part of the ancestral archenteron which gave rise in the ancestor to the somites , the mesoderm of Peripatus is to be regarded as developing from the walls of the archenteron.* The mesoblastic bands at once become segmented , a cavity appearing in each somite as it becomes marked off .
The anterior somite , which is the first to be formed , is at first placed some little distance behind the front end of the blastopore .
It soon shifts forward , and by stage E is placed in front of the embryonic mouth .
The somites are from the first placed at the sides of the mesenteron .
When the appendages are formed they send prolongations into them ; this remark applies to the antennae as well as to the other appendages .
The body cavity of the adult is very complicated , and divided into several parts , viz. : ( 1 ) the main central division containing the gut ; ( 2 ) two lateral chambers separated from ( 1 ) by a longitudinal vertical septum , and containing the nerve cords ; ( 3 ) the body cavities of the legs , separated from ( 2 ) by a vertical septum , and containing the segmental organs and crural glands ; ( 4 ) the pericardial cavity .
Of these ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are derived , not from the cavity of the somites , but from a space which is formed by the separation of the endoderm from the ectoderm , and from the inner wall of the somites , these being at first in contact .
At first these divisions of the body cavity have no special lining of cells , but subsequently migratory cells from the somites apply themselves to the endoderm and ectoderm , and form the very sparse lining found in the adult .
The cavities in the legs are derived from the cavities of the somites , the changes of which I will now shortly relate , so far as I have been able to follow them .
I regret to say that there are one or two points , * It was from this point of view that the editors of Balfour 's memoir ( op .
tit .
) made the second statement at the bottom of p. 256 with regard to the mesoderm .
This statement , which runs thus , " The greater part of the mesoblast is developed from the walls of the archenteron , " is obviously at variance with the statement already referred to at the top of the same page , unless considered in the light of the above hypothesis .
It was meant to be so considered , and I regret that the omission of the explanation now given has led to some misunderstanding .
VOL. XXXVIII .
2 C * 360 The Development of Peripatus Capensis .
[ May 21 , indicated below , with regard to these changes which , are still somewhat obscure .
When the appendages appear , the somites become prolonged into them .
The portion of the somite in the leg soon ( at about the end of the spiral stage ) becomes separated from the remainder , which shifts dorsalwards , and comes into contact with its fellow along the dorsal middle line above the gut .
I wall in future refer to the former as the leg division of the somites , and to the latter as the dorsal division .
The leg division becomes inconspicuous in the antennae and jaws .
In the remaining appendages ( oral papillae and seventeen pairs of legs ) it acquires an opening to the exterior at the base of each appendage and immediately outside the nerve cords .
The portion of the leg body cavity , which thus communicates with the exterior , gives rise to the segmental organs .
The segmental organs are never completely separated from the rest of the leg body cavity , except in the case of the first , the aperture of communication persisting as the internal opening of the nephridium .
' The anterior segmental organ , viz. , that of the oral papilla , gives rise to the salivary glands of the adult .
The segmental organs then develop in Peripatus , as they do in Elasmobranchs , by the direct modification of parts of the primitive body cavity .
These constitute , I believe , the only two cases in which such a method of development of these organs has been observed .
The cells of the splanchnic lining of these dorsal divisions of the body cavity contain during the spiral stage the primitive generative cells , But it is difficult to say where the generative cells originate , because during the spiral and later stages nuclei exactly similar to those of these cells are placed in groups in the portion of the endo-derm which is in contact with that part of the splanchnic mesoderm which contains the generative cells .
I cannot therefore be certain that the generative cells do not arise in the endoderm and subset quently migrate into the splanchnic mesoderm .
However that may be , they soon become surrounded by some of the smaller flat cells of the mesoderm which constitute the egg follicle .
So far the development of the somites is quite clear and easy to follow .
But the changes by which the dorsal divisions of the somites are converted into their permanent form take place at a late period of development \#151 ; during November\#151 ; and are , in consequence of the thinness of the walls , extremely difficult to follow .
I have not succeeded entirely in following them .
I will content myself , therefore , with making the following statement , of the truth of which I am by no means confident . .
The dorsal divisions unite with each other transversely and longi* The opening marked d in fig. 8 , Plate 75 , of Moseley 's paper ( op .
cit. ) is the opening of the salivary gland , not of the slime gland as he states ( see below ) .
Presents .
1885 .
] tudinally , and give rise to a continuous cavity\#151 ; the pericardial cavity .
The portion of this cavity containing the generative cells become separated from the rest as two tubes which form the generative glands and part of their .
d ucts , and come to lie ventral to the pericardium in the central compartment of the body cavity. .
The external parts of the generative ducts appear to be derived from the modified leg cavity of the anal papillae .
I have no satisfactory observations on the development of the heart ; but it appears to arise from the cells in the dorsal middle line which intervene between the two dorsal divisions of the somites before they unite with one another across the middle line .
The slime glands are epiblastic in origin .
They first appear as an invagination of ectoderm , at the apex of each oral papillae .
They have nothing to do with nephridia .
I have no observations on the development of the crural glands , neither have I been able to see anything of the development of tracheae .
I trust that the Society will deem the foregoing results of sufficient interest to justify this short preliminary , but I fear too long delayed , account of my observations on the development of The delay has been occasioned by the fulfilment of engagements which were undertaken before I went to the Cape , and have proved more arduous than I had anticipated .
My observations are nearly completed , and the greater part of the drawings are made ; and I trust that the detailed account will soon\#151 ; -before the autumn\#151 ; be ready for publication .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 11 .
Presents , April 16 , 1885 .
Transactions .
Amsterdam :\#151 ; K. Akademie van Wetenschappen .
Jaarboek .
1883 .
Afd .
Letterkunde .
Derde Reeks .
Deel 1 .
8vo .
Amsterdam 1884 .
Juditha-et Adolescentis Meditatio .
8vo .
Amstelodami 1884 .
Afd .
Natuurkunde .
Processen-Verbaal .
Mbs .
1\#151 ; 9 .
1883\#151 ; 4 .
Verslagen en Mededeelingen .
Tweede Reeks .
Deel 19-20 .
8vo ?
Amsterdam 1884 .
Naam-en Zaakregister .
Deel 1\#151 ; 20 .
8vo .
Amsterdam 1884 .
The Academy .
Cambridge:\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. V. Parts 1-3 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1884\#151 ; 5 .
Transactions .
Vol. XIV .
Part 1 .
4to .
Cambridge 1885 .
The Society .
Delft:\#151 ; l\#163 ; cole Polytechnique .
Annals , Livr .
2 .
4to .
1885 .
The School .

