Researches on the Action of Sulphuric Acid upon the Amides and Nitriles , together with Remarks upon the Conjugate Sulpho-acids .
By GEORGE B. BUCKTON , Esq. , F.L.S. , F.C.S. , and A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. 8fc .
Received May 13 , -Read June 12 , 1856 .
EVER since the experiments of DUMAS , MALAGUTI and LEBLANC on the one hand , and those of KOLBE and FRANKLAND on the other , have established the identity of the hydrocyanic ethers with the nitriles , it has been a favourite problem with chemists to reproduce the alcohols from these bodies , the solution of which would afford a passage from an acid , C2 Hn , 04 , to an alcohol , C , ,_ , HI , 0 , .
We have been likewise engaged with this question .
The deportment of hydrocyanic acid ( formonitrile ) under the influence of concentrated sulphuric acid , which , as is well known , gives rise to an evolution of carbonic oxide , suggested an examination of the other nitriles in a similar direction .
There appeared to be a chance of producing in this manner from a nitrile , the sulphovinic acid of an alcohol containing two equivalents of carbon less than the nitrile .
Acetonitrile , for instance , might have been thus converted either into sulphate of methylammonium or into sulphomethylate of ammoniumo HC , N+2HO+H S 80 , =2CO+f S2 O , Hydrocyanic acid , Bisulphate of ammonium , CH ) C , H3 C2N+2HO+H2 S , 08=2CO+ N(H3 )S2 0 Acetonitrile , or Cyanide of methyl .
H3 Bisulphate of methylammonium .
or =2CO+NH42 08 Methylosulphate of ammonium .
Experiment has corroborated neither of these anticipations .
This reaction gives rise to the formation of a remarkable conjugate sulpho-acid , which may be considered as the type of a most extensive class of analogous compounds , some isolated terms of which have been met with already in previous investigations .
Before , however , detailing the conditions under which these new bodies are formed , it may not be unacceptable to make a few statements regarding the most efficient 302 method of procuring the nitrile of the methyl-series in quantity and in a state of purity .
PREPARATION OF ACETONITRILE .
The preparation of cyanide of methyl ( acetonitrile ) , by decomposing sulphomnethylate of potassium with cyanide of potassium , is unsatisfactory , both as to quantity and quality of the product obtained .
The presence of a minute amount of moisture in the materials employed gives rise to a number of secondary products , the chief of which are , cyanide and carbonate of ammoniurn , and a gas possessing a highly offensive odour , which imparts to the distillate a smell not at all due to the nitrile itself .
By far the most advantageous method of preparing acetonitrile consists in acting upon acetamide with anhydrous phosphoric acid , as proposed by M. DUMAS .
Acetic ether is not immediately soluble in a moderate quantity of aqueous ammonia ; but after five or six hours ' contact , the layers at first formed disappear , and the liquid becomes homogeneous .
If distillation be now at once commenced , scarcely a trace of acetamide will be obtained .
The change , on the other hand , is complete if the mixture be exposed for some hours to a temperature of 120 ?
or 1300 C. We have employed in this operation a wrought-iron cylinder , similar to that used by Dr. FRANKLAND in his researches , which had been constructed for us by Mr. JAMES NASMYTH , who never fails most kindly and liberally to lend the extraordinary resources of his celebrated establishment for scientific purposes .
Equal volumes of acetic ether and concentrated ammonia were introduced into the boiler , the brass valve of which was protected from corrosion by a steel screw and leaden washer .
After six hours ' digestion the acetamide was separated by distillation with the thermometer from the alcohol formed , that part only being reserved as anhydrous which had passed over above 200 ? .
When acetamide is intimately mixed with about an equal volume of anhydrous phosphoric acid in a retort , a powerful action commences immediately , and the nitrile passes over colourless , but contaminated with acetic and hydrocyanic acids .
Towards the end of the operation it is necessary to use a strong heat to drive off the last portions .
The distillate is now agitated with just sufficient aqueous potash to neutralize the acids , when the nitrile floats on the surface , and may be removed for rectification over a fresh quantity of phosphoric acid , to render it perfectly anhydrous .
Pure acetonitrile possesses an ethereal odour , faintly recalling that of cyanogen ; its aromatic taste is pungent , but not disagreeable .
We observed the boiling-point 77 ?
-78 ?
, which coincides with that observed by DUMAS .
It does not appear to have been previously noticed , that acetonitrile burns with a luminous flame , the edges of which are beautifully tinged with peach-blossom colour .
The flame and odour of acetonitrile unmistakeably bespeak the cyanic relations of this compound .
This body , when mixed with its own volume of fuming sulphuric acid , gives rise to a very energetic reaction , a considerable amount of heat being evolved , which causes much of the nitrile to volatilize and thus escape decomposition .
In order to avoid this , the operation is best conducted in a retort surrounded with cold water , when a perfect mixture can be effected , scarcely a change of colour becoming perceptible .
On application of heat the mixture powerfully intumesces with copious evolution of a gas which on examination over mercury proves to be carbonic acid , without a trace of carbonic oxide ; at the same time strong acetic acid passes into the receiver .
If the temperature be kept up by the gas-flame until the effervescence almost entirely ceases , the mass when cold forms a brown , tough and transparent solid , readily soluble in water and in alcohol .
The aqueous solution , boiled with an excess of carbonate of barium , is then passed through a hot-water filter , when a magnificent salt is deposited , in the form of brilliant colourless rectangular plates which , when gathered in mass , exhibit a nacreous lustre .
This salt is remarkably stable .
It loses no weight at 1000 C. , but gives off water of crystallization somewhat below 150 ? .
At a temperature of 220 ?
the substance still remains unaltered , but when heated beyond this point , it commences to turn yellow , disengages water , sulphurous acid and carbonic oxide , whilst sulphur sublimes .
When strongly heated it becomes incandescent , leaving a residue of sulphate and sulphite of barium .
The new salt may be crystallized unchanged from hydrochloric acid , and may be boiled for hours with concentrated nitric acid , without formation of sulphate of barium .
It is quite insoluble in alcohol .
ACTION OF SULPHURIC ACID UPON ACETAMIDE .
As acetamide differs from acetonitrile only in containing two additional equivalents of water , this compound , when heated with fuming sulphuric acid , undergoes a perfectly analogous transformnation .
From the comparative facility of its preparation , acetamide offers peculiar advantages for procuring the new substance in large quantity .
The chief difficulty which presents itself consists in operating with the right proportions of acid and amide .
Distillation of equal volumes of ( dry acetarnide and ordinary Nordhausen acid , for instance , gives scarcely a trace of anything but acetic acid and sulphate of ammonia .
The most efficient proportions we found to be two volumes of amide to three volumes of acid .
The distillation should be pushed very far , in fact until the product of distillation is accompanied by sulphurous acid .
The solution of the solid residue may at once be saturated with carbonate of barium ; it will be found , however , more economical to treat the liquid with finely-powdered Carrara marble until the free acid be neutralized , and to reserve the pure carbonate of barium , which is so difficult to wash thoroughly , merely for decomposing the sulphate of ammonium towards the end of the process .
T'he liquid must be boiled with excess of the carbonate until 455 a filtered sample ceases to give an insoluble precipitate with chloride of barium .
The liquid thus obtained contains now in solution chiefly two ammonium-salts , one of which is scarcely crystallizable , whilst the other forms large and regular rhombic crystals , sometimes of an inch diameter .
In addition to these ammonium-salts , a certain quantity of bariumand even calcium.salts are present which it is necessary to decompose by carbonate of ammonium in excess before an attempt is made to effect a separation of the two salts .
On adding a saturated solution of either chloride or acetate of barium to a moderately strong solution of the crystallized ammonium-salt , the liquid becomes , in the course of a few minutes , nearly solid from the deposition of a mass of crystals of a barium-compound which may be collected on a filter and well washed with cold water from the chloride of ammonium and excess of the precipitant .
One recrystallization from boiling water furnishes this salt in a state of purity .
It in no manner differs from the barium-salt previously described as procur ed from acetonitrile .
The identity is moreover proved by the following analytical results : Analysis of the barium-salt resulting from the action of sulphuric acid upon acetonitrile and acetamide .
I. 0'7526 grin .
of substance , dried at 190 ?
, gave 0*5678 grm. of sulphate of barium .
II .
0'5998 grn. of substance , dried at 190 ?
, gave 0'4516 grm. of sulphate of barium .
III .
0'6318 grm. of substance , dried at 170 ?
, gave 0*4708 grin of sulphate of barium .
IV .
0,6383 grm. of substance , dried at 180 ?
, gave 0*4753 grm. of sulphate of barium .
V. 0'5918 grm. of substance , burnt with chromnate of lead in a current of oxygen , gave 0'0247 grm. of water and 0'0820 grm. of carbonic acid .
VI .
0*7644 grm. of substance , burnt with chromate of lead in oxygen , gave 0'0440 grm , of water and 0'0975 grm. of carbonic acid , VII .
0*7612 grm. of substance , burnt with chromate of lead in oxygen , gave 0'0472 grm. of water and 0'0990 grm. of carbonic acid , VIII .
0'3272 grm. of substance , burnt with chromate of lead in oxygen , gave 0'0224 grm. of water and 0'0502 grmn of carbonic acid .
IX .
0*4638 grm. of substance , ignited with chlorate of potassium , gave 017038 grm. of sulphate of barium .
Experiments I. , II .
, V. and IX .
refer to salts prepared from acetonitrile , the remainder to preparations from acetamide , Percentage composition .
---------A , .
, .
- ... II .
III .
IV .
V. VI .
III .
VIII .
IX .
Barium Q 44'-6 44'26 43*81 43178 Carbon .
--.--3'60 3'52 3'54 4'18 Hydrogen .
046 062 0'68 0'76 Sulphur.--- .
20'83 From these data we calculate for the anhydrous salt the formula CH Ba S2 06 , which requires the following numbers:1 equiv. of Carbon .
1 equiv. of Hydrogen 1 equiv. of Barium 2 equivs. of Sulphur .
6 equivs. of Oxygen .
Theory .
* .
6 3'85 .
1 0-67. .
685 4405 .
32 20-57 .
48 30*86 155'5 100-00 Mean of experiments .
3'71 0'63 44'05 20'83 30'78 100'00 Considerations which we shall develope hereafter , especially the production of similar compounds in analogous series , induce us to double this expression , and to represent the new barium-salt by the formula C2 ( H2 Ba2 ) S4 012 The salt , as has been stated , retains water of crystallization at 100 ?
C. In deter mining this water , I. 0'8414 grm. , dried at 100 ?
lost 0'0888 grm. at 1900 C. II .
0)5820 grm. , dried over sulphuric acid , lost 0'0613 grm. at 210 ?
C. These results indicate four equivalents of water : Theory .
Experiment .
r-I 1 .
II .
10-37 10*55 10'53 The formula of the crystallized salt is therefore C2 ( H2 Ba2 ) S4 02+4aq .
We propose for this substance the name disulphometholate of barium , and for the acid the term disulphometholic acid , without wishing , however , to express by this term any particular view regarding the actual arrangement of the constituent molecules in the substance .
If the formula above given be correct , disulphometholate of barium is the salt of a bibasic acid , the composition of which would be represented by the expression C2 H4 S4 012 furnishing salts of the general formula , Acid salt Neutral salt and .
C ( H , M ) S4012 , ,. .
C2 ( H M ) S4 012 .
The barium salt which has been described belongs to the second class .
We have not yet succeeded in preparing any acid salts .
Disulphometholate of barium crystallizes unchanged from a hydrochloric acid solution .
457 grm. of salt thus crystallized gave 0'4636 of sulphate of barium .
Acid salt .
Neutral salt .
Experiment .
Percentage of barium. .
28'13 44'05 43'85 .
Disulphometholic Acid .
To prepare this acid , the barium-salt is precipitated by a small excess of sulphuric acid which is again removed by means of oxide of lead .
Hydrosulphuric acid is then passed through the liquid which becomes thus strongly acid .
It may be concentrated to a syrup without decomposition , and even carefully heated until white fumes appear .
On cooling the liquid thus concentrated under the receiver of the air-pump , a crystalline mass of fine radiated needles is produced , exceedingly soluble in water and very deliquescent .
They have a pure acid taste , with somewhat the flavour of tartaric acid .
The attraction of this acid for water is so great , that we have failed in obtaining it in a solid condition by evaporation over sulphuriic acid .
It is not changed by boiling with nitric acid , and chlorine gas passed through the aqueous solution does not liberate sulphuric acid .
The corresponding salts are readily obtained by digesting the oxides or the carbonates of the various metals with solutions of the acid .
The barium-salt is immediately precipitated by adding chloride of barium to this solution .
The salts are all soluble in water , but insoluble in alcohol .
Disulphometholate of Silver crystallizes either in tufts of flat needles , or in broad tables of considerable size .
It is produced when the aqueous solution of the acid is neutralized with carbonate or oxide of silver .
We had hoped to obtain crystals of sufficient regularity for measurement of the angles ; but although they may be easily produced of sufficient size , the edges are mostly rounded and imperfect .
It bears a temperature of 150 ?
C. without decomposition , but blackens and froths when strongly heated , yielding sulphur , sulphurous acid , and metallic silver .
It is insoluble in absolute alcohol , but may be crystallized from spirits of wine .
I. 0-8066 grm. at 120 ?
, by ignition , gave 0'4470 grm. of silver .
II .
0'6045 grm. at 120 ?
, by ignition , gave 0'3345 grin .
of silver .
III .
1'0151 grin .
at 120 ?
, burnt with chromate of lead , gave 0 1110 grin .
of carbonic acid and 0-0534 grin .
of water .
Percentage composition .
I. II .
5II .
Silver ... ... 5549 55'33 Carbon ... .2'97 Hydrogen ... 0'58 leading to the formula C2 ( H2Ag2 ) S 012 .
Theory .
Mean of experiments .
2 equivs. of Carbon. .
12 307 2*97 2 equivs. of Hydrogen. .
2 0*51 0'58 2 equivs. of Silver. .
216 55'37 55'41 4 equivs. of Sulphur .
64 16-41 12 equivs. of Oxygen. .
96 24*64 390 100'00 Disulphometholate of Ammonium .
The formation of this substance has been already described .
It is sparingly soluble in cold , but very soluble in hot water ; from which it is again deposited in colourless crystals , often an inch in length .
They are anhydrous , decrepitate when heated , and bear a temperature of 190 ?
without being changed .
Through the kindness of Mr. CHARLES BROOKE we are enabled to\ y ' give the following angular measurements : MM ' 970 45 ' .
Mh 1310 15 .
M Mg 92 ? ?
50 ' The form belongs to the oblique prismatic system , which is in fact nothing more than a hemihedral form of the right prismatic X 9kf " system .
When submitted to analysis this salt gave the following results : I. 017692 grm. at 1900 ?
, ignited with chromate of lead , gave 0 1501 grm. of carbonic acid and 0'3623 grm. of water ; II .
0*5135 grm. at 150 ?
, ignited with chlorate of potassium , gave 1'1425 grm. of sulphate of barium ; III .
0'4508 grm. at 1700 , ignited with soda-lime , gave 0'9440 grm. of chloroplatinate of amlnonium ; IV .
0*5735 grm. at 170 ?
, ignited with soda-lime , gave 1'1770 grm. of chloroplatinate of aimmonium ; these numbers correspond to the formula C2 [ H2 ( NH4)2 ] S4 012 .
Theory .
Mean of experiments .
2 equivs. of Carbon. .
12 5-71 5-32 10 equivs. of Hydrogen. .
10 4-76 5'22 4 equivs. of Sulphur ... .
64 3047 30'55 2 equivs. of Nitrogen ... 28 13'33 12'98* 12 equivs. of Oxygen. .
96 45'73 45'93 210 100'00 100'00 Disulphometholate of Potassium is most readily obtained by adding the crystallized barium-salt by degrees to a boiling solution of carbonate of potassium , avoiding an excess of the former .
After filtration , the new substance separates easily from excess of alkali in fine shining needles or brilliant grains , according to the rapid or slow precipitation from its solution .
It is not very soluble in cold water , one part requiring fourteen parts of water at 22 ?
C. for solution .
Disulphometholate of Zinc .
When metallic zinc is heated with an aqueous solution of the acid , hydrogen gas is liberated , and on concentration a syrup is formed which crystallizes with great dif- ?
ficulty .
Alcohol does not precipitate this salt from its solution .
Disulphometholate of Lead forms small square nacreous plates not unlike those of the barium-compound .
It is very soluble in water .
Disulphometholate of Copper is produced by careful precipitation of the barium-salt by sulphate of copper .
It yields radiated needles or small prisms of a green colour .
They are insoluble in absolute alcohol , but soluble in'spirits of wine .
We have not succeeded in preparing the ethers of this acid .
We anticipated that they would be formed by bringing together iodide of ethyl and disulphometholate of silver .
A strong solution of the silver-salt reacts at once on the iodide without application of heat .
Iodide of silver is precipitated , but the ether which is formed splits immediately into disulphometholic acid and alcohol , according to the equation C , ( H2 Ag2 )S4 012+2C4 H5 I+4HO=2Ag I+2C4 H6 02+C2 H4 S4 012 .
Sulphacetate of Ammonium and Sulphacetate of Barium .
It has been already noticed that another salt is present in the mother-liquid obtained during the purification of disulphometholate of ammonium .
To procure this substance in a state of purity the mother-liquid was concentrated , and the crystals of the disulphometholate removed from the thick syrup as completely as possible .
After a moderate addition of cold water the liquid was mnixed with an excess of chloride of barium , and the whole allowed to stand for five or six minutes , when it was filtered , and the filtrate set apart for twenty-four hours .
At the expiration of this time a copious granular precipitate had fortled which was well washed with cold water and then recrystallized from boiling water , in which , when once deposited , it proved to be very little soluble .
This substance differs both in its crystalline form and in its reactions from the disulphometholate .
When strongly heated , it turns black and burns away like tinder .
The residuary mass , moistened with hydrochloric acid , evolves according to the time of ignition , hydrosulphuric and sulphurous acid .
By analysis , 0*6266 grin .
, dried at 220 ?
, gave 0'5287 of sulphate of barium .
The percentage of barium resulting from this experiment agrees well with the amount required by the formula of sulphacetate of barium .
We append the theoretical and experimental percentages : Formula .
Barium calculated .
Barium found .
C4 ( 1-12 Ba , ) S , 010 49'81 49'60 -------J Sulphacetate of barium .
The quantity of sulphacetate of ammonium produced , mainly depends upon the degree of heat maintained during the reaction of sulphuric acid upon acetamide or acetonitrile .
If the mixture be made gradually and cooled after each addition of acid , the elimination of carbonic acid may be entirely prevented , and the chief product is then sulphacetic acid .
On the other hand , if the heat be urged as far as is practicable , disulphometholic acid takes the place of the sulphacetic , carbonic acid being evolved at the same time .
Two phases may therefore be traced in the reaction .
In the first , nascent acetic acid simply combines with the elements of two equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
In the second phase the acetic molecule undergoes a more thorough transformation , splitting , as it does , into carbonic acid and marsh-gas , the latter of which combines with the elements of four equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
The new acid may also be regarded as sulphacetic acid , which , losing carbonic acid , has assimilated an equal number of equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
The two stages in the action of sulphuric acid on acetonitrile may be represented by the following equations:3P2 461 N+2HO +2H2 S2 , 08= CH S2 0,0+ HsOo --wH---H Acetonitrile .
Sulphacetic acid .
C4 H3 N+3H2 S2 O=C2 H4 S4 012+ H 0S8+2CO2 &lt; .-^- ) 4-------NHOAcetonitrile .
Disulphometholic acid .
Acetamide containing but two equivalents of water more than acetonitrile , the production of sulphacetic acid and disulphometholic acid from this substance is intelligible by means of the same equations .
The action then of bases and of acids upon acetic acid presents a remarkable analogy .
Under the influence of both agents , we may assume , it splits into marshgas and carbonic acid ; in the first case , it is the carbonic acid which is fixed by the alkali , whilst in the latter the marsh-gas remains in combination with the acid .
The possibility of assuming the existence of marsh-gas in disulphomrnetholic acid , suggested the idea of endeavouring to combine marsh-gas directly with sulphuric acid .
The dry gas obtained by the distillation of acetate of soda with potash-lime was passed into a receiver charged for this purpose wit anhydrous sulphuric acid , but we could not detect any combination of the two bodies , either at ordinary temperature or when the receiver was heated to 100 ?
C. The sulphuric acid , after treatment with water and carbonate of barium , furnished no soluble salt whatever .
Although we have thus been unable to convert marsh-gas into disulphometholic acid , we have found that this acid may be readily transformed into marsh-gas .
When heated with hydrate of baryta the salts of the acid yield marsh-gas , together with sulphate and sulphite of barium .
A method is thus indicated by which probably all the hydrocarbons , Cn2-2 Hn2 , may be prepared from the corresponding sulpho-acids x. The simplicity of relation which exists between sulphacetic and disulphometholic acid , left no doubt in our mind regarding the convertibility of the former into the latter .
We have established this fact moreover experimentally .
Sulphacetic acid , prepared by the action of anhydrous sulphuric acid upon glacial acetic acid , furnished without difficulty disulphometholic acid , when again treated with sulphuric acid .
A similar observation had in fact been made already by M. MELSENS .
This chemist , in his researches upon the sulphacetates , appears in some sort to have anticipated the existence of the disulphometholates .
He remarks that he once found in the motherliquor obtained from the preparation of sulphlacetate of silver , a crystalline salt the composition of which he represents by the formula C2 12 Ag , 84 0 , .
* We are unable to corroborate M. AIMEE'S remarks , that marsh-gas is decomposed by sulphuric acid into water , carbon , and sulphurous acid .
The acid remains colourless , and the gas after the process exhibits its usual properties unmodified .
It is evident that this was nothing but the disulphometholate of silver , but M. MELSENS does not appear to have investigated the subject further , or to have connected the appearance of this salt with the evolution of carbonic acid gas , which he likewise found among the secondary products of the action of sulphuric acid upon acetic acid .
The chemical character of disulphometholic acid is so marked , and the reaction which produces it so simple and definite , that there could be no doubt regarding the existence of numerous corresponding terms in homologous and even in analogous series of substances .
In fact disulphometholic acid may be considered as the type of a very numerous class of bodies of similar composition , some of which are actually known , while a great many remain to be discovered .
We have ourselves traced the formation of the homologues and analogues of disulphometholic acid in several higher series of bodies , but we have been satisfied in establishing the existence of these substances , without entering into a detailed study of their properties .
ETHYL-SERIES .
Preparation of Propionitrile .
The formation of cyanide of ethyl ( propionitrile ) by means of cyanide and sulphovinate of potassium , has all the disadvantages above enumerated in the case of cyanide of methyl .
A large quantity of an inflammable gas of a highly offensive odour is disengaged , the annoyance of which may be avoided by conducting the gas from the receiver of the liquid into the cylinder of a wire gauze burner , in the air-flame of which it is perfectly consumed .
In the preparation of cyanide of ethyl by means of cyanide and sulphovinate of potassium , through the intervention of unavoidable moisture , a variety of different reactions appear to proceed side by side .
Together with the formation of cyanide of ethyl , C4 H5 K , S , 08+KCy=C4 H , Cy+K , S2 08 Sulphovinate of Cyanide of potassium .
ethyl .
considerable quantities of carbonate of ammonium are produced , whilst an inflammable gas is largely generated , which is nothing but hydride of ethyl .
This gas is not absorbed by bromine ; it therefore cannot contain any ethylene .
It combines with chlorine , forming a gaseous compound , burning with a green-edged flame .
This is probably the substance obtained by Drs. KOLBE and FRANKLAND when treating ethyl with chlorine gas , isomeric with chloride of ethyl , C4 H , Cl. When in contact with excess of chlorine it yields an oily substance , and a crystalline body having the properties and composition of sesquichloride of carbon .
An analysis of the substance gave the following numbers:01 130 grm. gave 041 00 chloride of silver .
Theory .
Experiment .
Chlorine in C2Cl ... .
89'87 89'73 It is from this fact chiefly that we infer the identity of the inflammable gas generated in the preparation of propionitrile with hydride of ethyl , C4 H-+ 12C1=C4 C16+6HCl .
Hydride Sesquiof ethyl .
chloride of carbon .
The oily liquid observed obviously consisted of the intermediate substitution-terms .
These substances are evidently secondary products of the decomposition of cyanide of ethyl , C4 H , Cy+6HO-C4 H5H+ H }C 06 , ------- ' .
v. .
1 NH4 Cyanide of Hydride of J--------ethyl .
ethyl .
Bicarbonate of ammonium .
Cyanide of ammonium is likewise invariably present , prussic acid being generated by the action of water upon the cyanide of potassium , while alcohol is reproduced to a very considerable extent .
Lastly , this process gives rise to a most remarkable body with a most insupportable prussic smell , the formation of which we have traced in a great variety of reactions .
We have not completed the study of this compound .
The method finally adopted for obtaining propionitrile in sufficient quantity for us to experiment upon was that recommended by Dr. WILLIAMSON , viz. the digestion of cyanide of potassium with iodide of ethyl in four volumes of alcohol as a vehicle .
The presence of so much alcohol , from which the cyanide cannot be separated by rectification , on account of the similarity of their boiling-points , is an evil which unfortunately involves a series of tedious processes , namely , conversion of the nitrile into propionate of potassium , by the action of caustic potassa , separation of the alcohol by distillation , preparation of propionic ether , transformation of the latter into propionamide by the action of ammonia under pressure , action of phosphoric acid upon propionamide to form the nitrile , and ultimately dehydration of the nitrile by means of anhydrous phosphoric acid .
In preparing disulphetholic acid we have almost invariably employed propionamide , on account of its easier preparation .
We have however established by experiment that propionitrile exhibits with sulphuric acid exactly the same deportment as propionamide .
To effect the transformation of the propionamide with success , it is necessary to employ this substance in a perfectly anhydrous condition .
Unless this point be properly attended to , sulphuric acid produces principally sulphate of ammonium and propionic acid ; for this purpose the amide should be heated in a retort , and that portion only collected which passes over above the temperature of 210 ?
C. B-elow this point the amide retains sufficient water to prevent perfect crystallization .
On mixing equal volumes of melted amide and fuming sulphuric acid , very considerable heat is disengaged ; the temperature must be regularly maintained until carbonic acid ceases to be evolved and propionic acid no longer distils over .
Some experiments are necessary in order to fix the quantity of acid required for the conversion of the propionamide , since commercial Nordhausen acid varies considerably in composition .
If too much acid be employed , the mixture is often perfectly carbonized , whilst too little acid gives rise to the formation of either sulphopropionic or propionic acid .
If care be taken to regulate the heat so as just to keep up the liberation of carbonic acid , the amount of disulphetholic acid may be considerably increased .
The solid residue in the retort , when cold , is dissolved in water , and treated , as in the case of disulphometholic acid , first with carbonate of barium and subsequently with carbonate of ammonium .
On evaporation the liquid thus obtained furnishes two salts , one of which is quite uncrystallizable , and must be separated from the other by washing with weak spirit .
A crystalline substance remains on the filter , which , after two or three crystallizations from hot water , is the pure Disulphetholate of Ammonium .
When deposited from an aqueous solution , this salt forms regular cubic clystals or square prisms , perfectly colourless .
It is insoluble in alcohol and in ether .
In its general behaviour this substance differs but little from the corresponding salt of the methyl-series , the principal feature of difference being a greater solubility and its leaving a carbonaceous residue when strongly heated .
Disulphetholate of Barium crystallizes with regularity in six-sided plates , which generally arrange themselves from centres .
It is easily formed by heating a solution of the ammonium-salt with hydrate of baryta until every trace of ammonia is expelled , and then passing a current of carbonic acid through the solution to remove the excess of baryta .
It is very soluble in water , and stable at a temperature of 1800 , but blackens when strongly heated in close vessels , emrpyreumatic vapolurs being at the same time given off .
The black residue burns with a sulphur-flame .
Disulphetholate of barium is insoluble in concentrated nitric acid , which does not decompose it .
It crystallizes from the dilute acid without apparent change .
After fusion with chlorate of potassium and carbonate of sodium , the filtrate contains sulphates in solution , proving that there is more sulphur present than is required for saturating the barium of the compound .
By this method the disulphetholates can be distinguished from the sulphopropionates presently to be described .
0'4490 grm. , at 1700 C. , gave 0'3266 grm. of sulphate of barium ; 0'5045 grm. , fused with chlorate of potassium , gave 017229 grm. of sulphate of barium ; which numbers accord with the formula C4 ( H4 Ba , ) S4,12 .
465 Theory .
Experiment .
4 equivs. of Carbon ... 24 7'38 4 equivs. of Hydrogen. .
4 1'23 2 equivs. of Barium ... 137 42'15 42'36 4 equivs. of Sulphur ... 64 19'69 19'68 12 equivs. of Oxygen ... 96 29'55 325 100'00 For the determination of the water of crystallization , 0,5790 grm. , dried at 100 ?
, were heated to 220 ?
C. , when they lost 0'0347 grm. Two equivalents of water require 524 ; found , 5'99 .
It is probable that there is a partial decomposition of the salt at this high temperature .
As has been already stated , the disulphethylates may also be prepared from propionitrile .
For this purpose three parts of the propionitrile are distilled with two parts of fuming sulphuric acid .
As the action is very energetic , the mixing should be effected by degrees in a moderate-sized retort .
A barium-salt was prepared the properties of which agreed in every respect with those of the compound prepared from propionamide .
Disulphetholic Acid is obtained by decomposing the lead-salt by hydrosulphuric acid .
By concentration it forms a thick syrup , which ultimately solidifies into a crystalline mass .
By heat it decomposes with deposition of charcoal and production of white fumes .
Disulphetholate of Silver may be obtained by a process similar to that employed in the case of the disulphometholate .
It is crystalline .
When dry , it bears a considerable heat without change .
The solution blackens on ebullition .
Disulphetholate of Lead is very soluble in water .
When evaporated over sulphuric acid , the salt yields fine prisms or minute quadrangular laminie .
When hastily evaporated it produces a tough gummy mass .
Sulphopropionic Acid .
As might have been anticipated from the results obtained in the methyl-series , disulphetholic acid is by no means the sole product of the action of sulphuric acid upon propionamide and propionitrile .
The formation of this acid is preceded by that of another acid richer in carbon and poorer in sulphur , in one word , by that of sulphopropionic acid .
The uncrystallizable ammonium-salt , already mentioned , is in fact the sulphopropionate of ammonium .
Absolute alcohol throws it down from its solution as a thick treacly mass , with an appearance very unprepossessing to the analyst .
The dilute aqueous solution was therefore boiled with carbonate of barium until entirely decomposed , and the filtered liquid concentrated in a beaker .
At a particular point of the evaporation , a quantity of sulphopropionate of barium appeared in small cubic grains , which caused so much " bumping " as to make it necessary to evaporate upon the water-bath .
If the concentration be arrlested before the deposition of these grains , and the liquid be set aside for twenty-four hours , it yields a plentiful crop of beautiful silky crystals , arranged in spherical groups .
After another crystallization from hot water , in which the substance is moderately soluble , this salt is sufficiently pure .
For analysis it was dried at 170 ? .
0'3636 grm. of substance gave 0'2940 grm. of sulphate of barium .
0'4960 grm. of substance gave 0'2138 grnl .
of carbonic acid and 0'0672 water .
The results of this analysis agree with the formula of sulphopropionate of barium , C6 ( H4 Ba2 ) S2 010 .
Theory .
Experiment .
6 equivs. of Carbon ... 36 12'45 11-75 4 equivs. of Hydrogen. .
4 138 1'49 2 equivs. of Barium ... 137 47'40 47'52 2 equivs. of Sulphur ... 32 11'07 10 equivs. of Oxygen ... 80 27'70 289 100'00 PROPYL-SERIES .
From what has been already said , but few words are necessary on the preparation of disulphopropiolic and sulphobutyric acid .
It may , however , be stated , that butyramide boils at 216 ?
, and passes over at that temperature in drops which crystallize beautifully .
It has the characteristic sweet taste of the other amides of the series , and , like them , it fumes slightly in the air when gently heated .
Three parts of butyramide produce with two parts of fuming sulphuric acid a horny mass , which , after removal of the sulphuric acid and saturation with ammonia , yields a syrup wholly uncrystallizable .
The arnmonium-salts were converted into barium-salts , which also possess but feeble powers of crystallization .
M. REDTENBACHER has already pointed out how much the solubility in water of the barium-salts of the acids C2 H11 04 augments as the value of the coefficient n progressively increases .
A similar increase of solubility is observed with the bariumsalts of the series of conjugated acids which form the subject of this paper .
The contrast between the almost insoluble disulphometholate and the very soluble disulphopropiolate of barium is very marked .
Fromn the extreme solubility of these salts , great difficulty was experienced in separating them completely one from the other .
The method adopted was that of partial precipitation by alcohol .
To solutions moderately concentrated and cold , sufficient absolute alcohol was added to produce a cloud , permanent when rapidly stirred .
On allowing the liquid to stand for an hour , a quantity of a granular substance attached itself to the glass vessel , which , after solution in water and reprecipitation , was dried and decomposed by sulphuric acid .
0'2336 grm. at 1600 gave 0-1800 grm. of sulphate of barium , which corresponds to the formula for sulphobutyrate of barium , C8 H6 Ba2 S2 0o .
The percentage required is8 equivs. of Carbon. .
6 equivs. of Hydrogen .
2 equivs. of Barium 2 equivs. of Sulphur .
10 equivs. of Oxygen .
We have not been able to procure Theory .
Found. .
48 15'84 61 98 137 45'21 45'29 32 10'56 80 26 41 303 100'00 the disulphopropiolate of barium in a state of purity .
The alcoholic liquid which remains after deposition of the sulphobutyrate contains a considerable quantity of the salt , but so mixed , that we were unable more than proximately to isolate it .
By continuing the process of fractional precipitation , and drying , and by analysing the different samples , the quantity of barium present in the successive specimens was found to decrease .
In three consecutive analyses we arrived at the following percentages:43'4 , 42'9 , 41-7 .
The formula ( requires the following values : 6 equivs. of Carbon .
6 equivs. of Hydrogen 2 equivs. of Barium .
4 equivs. of Sulphur .
12 equivs. of Oxygen o C6 ( H6 Ba2 ) S4 012 Theory ... 36 10'61. .
6 177. .
137 40441 64 18-87 v. 96 28*34 339 100'00 Found .
41'7 This salt is not so wholly uncrystallizable as the sulphobutyrate .
By slow evaporation it furnishes very minute crystals , which under the microscope show themselves as thin pearly plates .
They appear best when slowly thrown down by alcohol from the solution .
Our experiments in this series have been entirely qualitative .
We have been satisfied to establish experimentally the analogy of the reactions .
These reactions , however , become less and less definite , and , owing to the still greater solubility of the new products , their separation is attended with difficulties almost insurmountable .
The researches detailed in the preceding pages are quite sufficient to establish the general character of the action of sulphuric acid upon the amides and nitriles .
Nevertheless , since these experiments exclusively refer to the derivatives of several homologous terms of the series of fatty acids , it appeared desirable to extend the investiga .
tion to a nitrile of the analogous group of aromatic acids .
No substance appeared to be more appropriate for sucth an examination than benzonitrile , or cyanide of phenyl .
PHENYL-SERIES .
Preparation of Benzonitrile .
M. FEHLING originally obtained benzonitrile by subjecting benzoate of ammonium to repeated dry distillations , when the four equivalents of water gradually separated .
The process is however objectionable , on account of the necessity of repeatedly returning by hand the sublimed salt to the volatilizing vessel , We hoped to have found a more convenient method , in submitting the same salt to the dehydrating action of chloride of zinc ; but on rectifying the distillate , we obtained only onethird of the product in the form of benzonitrile , the remaining portion being benzole .
The safest , but somewhat lengthened , process for procuring benzonitrile , consists in dehydrating benzamide with anhydrous phosphoric acid , the former body having been produced by the action of carbonate of ammonium upon chloride of benzoyl , as recommended by M. GERHARDT .
ACTION OF SULPHURIC ACID UPON BENZONITRILE .
Sulphuric acid and benzonitrile mix with liberation of far less heat than is observable in the cases previously recounted .
No gas is disengaged until the tenperature is very considerably raised , when a portion of benzoic acid sublimes in the neck of the retort and carbon is deposited , while sulphurous acid is simultaneously disengaged .
The action was continued for some time after the appearance of sulphurous acid , for the purpose of decomposing the sulphobenzoic acid which analogy would lead us to expect among the products of the reaction .
On cooling , a semitransparent hard mass of glassy fracture remained in the retort .
The usual treament with carbonate of barium evolved ammonia , showing the presence of a salt of that base .
3Q2 469 Sulphobenzoate of Barium .
As the filtrate was very dark-coloured , the bariumi-salt was again decomposed by sulphuric acid , and then boiled with excess of oxide of lead , filtered and treated by hydrosulphuric acid .
The sulphide of lead was found to carry down with it almost the whole of the colouring matter .
The acid liquid was then saturated with carbonate of barium , a portion evaporated nearly to dryness and treated with hydrochloric acid , when a salt crystallized out from the mother-liquor , which , after washing with water , was again crystallized until free from hydrochloric acid .
Dried at 200 ?
, it gave a percentage of barium which coincided with that required by the acid sulphobenzoate of barium analysed by MITSCHERLICH and FEHLING .
0'4092 grin .
gave 0*1768 grn. of sulphate of barium .
Formula .
Theory .
Experiment .
C14 ( H5 Ba ) S , O10 25'41 25'39 Acid sulphobenzoate of barium .
It was therefore obvious that the disulphosalt , if present , was the most soluble , and to be found in the filtrate .
The remaining portion of the neutral solution of the barium-salt was therefore dissolved in water , and about one-half of the solid matter precipitated by alcohol , filtered off and recrystallized .
0*3634 grm. , at 190 ?
, gave 02510 grm. of sulphate of barium , the percentage of barium in which corresponds to the neutral sulphobenzoate of barium , Formula .
Theory .
Experiment .
C4 ( H4 Ba , ) S , O0 40'65 40'58 Neutral sulphobenzoate of barium .
Disulphobenzolate of Barium .
It remained , therefore , to examine the salt last thrown down by alcohol , which , after being purified again by precipitation , gave analytical numbers characterizing the new salt , although still in a state of admixture with sulphobenzoate of barium .
0'4910 grm. , at 170 ?
, gave 0'3170 grm. of sulphate of barium , which percentage approximates to that of the salt suggested by theory .
Formula .
Theory .
Experiment .
C12 ( H1 Ba2 ) S4 02 36-72 37'70 This analysis could leave no doubt regarding the nature of the substance analysed , yet it was desirable , if possible , to prepare the new compound in a state of purity ; and the question presented itself , whether it could not be more directly formed from sulphobenzolic acid , C , H6S20 , O , , which is so easily obtained by the action of sulphuric acid upon benzol .
Success in its preparation by this means was of considerable interest , since in this case it would become highly probable that all the new bodies hitherto described in this memoir might be prepared , from the analogues of sulplobenzolic acid in their respective groups , by a simple assimilation of the elements of sulphuric acid .
The method in question is in reality by far the best adapted for procuring the new acid in a state of purity .
Sulphobenzolic acid obtained from the leador copper-salt is evaporated on the sand bath until the evolution of white fumes proves that the greater part of the water has been volatilized .
It is advisable to heat the solution until a slight brown coloration indicates incipient decomposition .
The acid is then introduced into a dry retort , together with an equal volume of strong Nordhausen acid , and the whole maintained at the boiling-point for two hours .
The liquid is then reduced by evaporation nearly to the original bulk of the sulphobenzolic acid employed .
The new acid in this stage has a very dark colour which cannot be removed by boiling with charcoal .
Treatment , however , with an excess of oxide of lead , and decomrposition of the filtrate by hydrosulphuric acid , furnishes a liquid which is perfectly colourless .
When this liquid is saturated with carbonate of barium and evaporated , an apparently amorphous mass is produced , which , however , under the microscope is distinctly crystalline , showing minute shuttle-shaped forms generally densely grouped together .
This salt is very stable .
Strongly heated , however , on platinum foil , it burns with evolution of sulphurous acid .
0'3930 grin .
, at 195 ?
, gave 0'2436 grm. of sulphate of barium ; 0*3046 grm. , ignited with chlorate of potassium , gave 0O3850 grm. of sulphate of barium , leading to the formula of disulphobenzolate of barium , C2 ( H4 Ba2 ) S4012 .
Theory .
Experiment .
rC-12 equivs. of Carbon ... 72 19'30 4 equivs. of Hydrogen. .
4 1*07 2 equivs. of Barium ... 137 36'72 36.43 4 equivs. of Sulphur. .
64 1716 171 1735 12 equivs. of Oxygen. .
96 25'75 373 100'00 For comparison , we subjoin the corresponding number for sulphobenzolate of barium , C,2 ( H , Ba ) S2 06 .
Barium ... .
3038 Sulphur ... .
14'19 The preceding researches establish in two different groups of bodies the existence of a series of bibasic acids , containing 4 equivalents of sulphlur , and which , irrespectively of any special view regarding their molecular arrangement , may be represented as formed by the association of the hydrocarbons ( corresponding to marsh-gas ) of the various groups with 4 equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid : Disulphometholic acid. .
C. H4 4803 Disulphetholic acid. .
C4 H6 4SO0 Disulphopropiolic acid ... C6 Hs 4S03 Disulphobenzolic acid ... C H6 480 An acid of analogous composition exists in the naphthalin-series Disulphonaphthalic acid,. .
C0 , Hs 4SO , , which was discovered by BERZELIUS and subsequently studied by LAURENT .
Many of these substances may actually be produced directly from the hydrocarbons by the action of sulphuric acid .
On the other hand , chemists are well acquainted with the deportment of olefiant gas under the influence of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
The crystalline compound discovered by MAGNUS , and described by him under the name of Sulphate of Carbyl , whatever its constitution may be , can be considered as a direct combination of olefiant gas with four equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid , Sulphate of Carbyl ... C4 4SO3 .
It can scarcely be doubted that all the other hydrocarbons of the series C , 1H , , propylene , butylene , amylene , &amp;c. , will furnish homologous substances .
Sulphate of carbyl , when submitted to the action of water , assimilates two equivalents , and is converted into a bibasic acid ( ethionic ) , C414480 , +210=C4 H602,4SO0 , which accordingly may be viewed as an association of alcohol with four equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
Terms analogous to ethionic acid are sure to be found when the study of the homologues of sulphate of carbyl shall be taken up by chemists .
The production of disulpho-compounds of perfectly similar composition , from substances belonging to such different groups of bodies as the hydrocarbons , homologous and analogous to marsh-gas , as ethylene , and as alcohol , suggested the possibility that the substances observed might be but individual examples of a far more general mode of formation .
It became , in fact , probable that all organic bodies , capable of uniting with the elements of two equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid , might , under favourable circumstances , be induced to assimilate two additional equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid , and thus furnish terms belonging to the class of disulphocompounds .
The hope of arriving at a more general interlpretation of our observations induced us to institute some further inquiries , the result of which we will briefly append .
The first question which naturally suggested itself , was the examination of the deportment of the sulpho-acids derived from acetic , propionic , butyric , benzoic acid , &amp;c. , under the influence of an excess of sulphuric acid .
To take acetic acid as an illustration , Is sulphacetic acid , C,4 HS2 O,0=C4 1 04280 , capable of combining with two additional equivalents of sulphur ic acid in order to furnish the compound C4 H4 S4 16-= C4 H4 04 4SO ?
The experiments hitherto detailed contain no evidence against this assumption .
It appeared to us extremely probable that sulphacetic acid , when submitted to the action of sulphuric acid , is converted into disulphacetic acid , whicth , losing carbonic acid , produces disulphometholic acid , the deportment of disulphacetic under the influence of heat being closely analogous with that of acetic acid , C , H4 04-2CO , =C2 H4 Acetic acid .
Marsh-gas .
4 H4 04 4S03-2CO2=C2 H4 4803 --'"- ... .
V 'J Supposed Disulphometholic disulphacetic acid .
acid .
We have endeavoured to decide this question by experiment ; but on account of the greater stability of the benzoic molecule , we have preferred to trace the intermediate acid in the benzoyl-series .
Sulphobenzoic acid , obtained from the acid barium-salt , was evaporated to dryness and heated until it attained the point of quiet fusion .
When cold , the acid was coarsely powdered , and mixed with rather more than its own bulk of crystallized sulphuric acid .
It was then heated in a water-bath to a temperature below that at which gases are disengaged .
This appeared to be just below 85 ?
C. The substances were kept in contact at this temperature for eight hours .
Finally , the mixture was subjected to the heat of boiling water for two hours longer ; after which it was treated in the usual way for obtaining the soluble barium-salt .
The salt thus obtained in no manner differed , either in appearance , reaction , or composition , from sulphobenzoate of barium .
0'3838 grm. of salt , dried at 165 ?
C. , gave 012630 grm. of sulphate of barium , corresponding to 40'28 per cent. of barium .
For comparison , we append the barium-percentages required for the salts of the two acids , and the amounts found by experiment .
Formula .
Theory .
Formula .
Theory .
Experiment .
C,4 ( H4 Ba2 ) S2 O0 40'65 C14 ( H , Ba ) S4 016 32'85 40'28 Sulphobenzoate of barium .
Hypothetical acid .
Though the above experiments have failed to realize our hopes of producing disulphobenzoic acid , they by no means disprove the existence of this body , and the possibility of producing it under more favourable circumstances .
We insist upon this point , on account of the success which has attended our endeavours to trace the existence of disulpho-acids in a perfectly different group of bodies .
We are indebted to M. GERHARDT for the knowledge of a conjugated sulpho-acid , containing an organic base in the place of hydrocarbons , alcohols , acids , &amp;c. , which 473 are present in the usual sulpho-acids .
Sulphanilic acid , C , , H7 NS 06 , may be viewed as formed by the association of one equivalent of aniline and two equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
We were curious to ascertain whether this acid , by assimilating once more the elements of anhydrous sulphuric acid , was capable of becoming disulphanilic acid , C12 H7 N S4 012 The existence of disulphobenzolic acid , C2 H6 S4 0,2 , the bariunl-salt of which we have described in the preceding pages , together with the formation of an interesting acid lately obtained by M. KILKENKAMP* in the reaction of sulphite of ammonium on dinitrobenzol , appeared to leave no doubt regarding the existence of a disulphanilic acid .
In fact , M. KILKENKAMP'S dithiobenzic acid , C1 , ,8N2S4012 , is most intimately connected with the acid we were in search of , as is obvious by a glance at the following Table , in which we have placed a number of known substances in juxtaposition with bodies , ideal at present , but the existence of which can no longer be doubted .
Hydrocarbons and substitutes .
C12 H6 Benzol .
C ' INO , f Nitrobenzol .
cI H51 12 NH2J Phenylamineo Aniline .
rH4 Cl NO4 NO4 Dinitrobenzol .
fH4 C12 NH2 lNHJ Phenyldiamine .
( Semaniline ?
) Sulpho-acids and substitutes .
C12 H6 S2 06 Sulphobenzolic acid .
C12{NoS206 Nitrosulphobenzolic acid .
CNH52 } Phenylsulphamic acid .
Sulphanilic acid .
C12 NO4 S2 6 IN04J IHO4 C12 &lt; NH2 S2 O6 INH2J Disulpho-acids and substitutes .
C12 H6 84 012 Disulphobenzolic acid .
C{ H5 Is o C12NH5 S4 012 CINH1 J O2 Phenyldisulphamic acid .
Disulphanilic acid .
CI2 NO4 S4 012 C1 NH2 S4 012 NHJ Dithiobenzic acid .
Phenyldisulpho-diamic acid .
The preceding synopsis , whilst it fixes , we believe , the correct position of dithiobenzic acid in the benzol-series , exhibits at the same time its close relation to the disulphanilic acid which we endeavoured to produce , and the formation of which , it may at once be stated , succeeded without much difficulty .
In order to prepare disulphanilic acid , two parts of strong sulphuric acid were mixed with one part of aniline , when heat was freely evolved , sulphate of aniline being thrown down at the same time .
On further application of heat the salt redissolved , and as the liquid reached the boiling-point it became very dark in colour , sulphurous acid being freely evolved .
In our first experiment the mixture was kept in full ebullition for ten minutes , and then poured into water after it had partially cooled .
A confusedly crystalline mass was produced which was well washed with cold water ( in which it is not very soluble ) , and afterwards recrystallized from hot water .
Sulphanilate ( f Silver .
A portion of this acid was digested with carbonate of silver .
The crystalline silversalt , obtained by evaporating the solution at a low temperature , was dried at 120 ?
and ignited .
0'3524 grin .
gave 0'1360 grm. of reduced silver , which coincides with the theoretical percentage of sulphanilate of silver , C,2 ( H6 Ag ) N S2 06 .
Theory .
Experiment .
Silver. .
3857 38'58 Sulphanilate of Barium .
A barium-salt , prepared in the usual way and submitted to analysis by ptrecipitation by sulphuric acid , gave perfectly analogous results .
0*4250 glr .
, at 160 ?
, gave 0'2060 grm. sulphate of barium , corresponding to the formula C,2 ( H6 Ba ) N S , ( 6 .
Theory .
Experiment .
Barium ... 28*48 28'40 These experiments proved that the acid produced was nothing but M. GERHARDT'S well-known sulphanilic acid , the reaction not having gone far enough for the production of the second acid .
The treatment with sulphuric acid was therefore resumed .
Finely powdered and dry sulphanilic acid , mixed with strong fuming acid to the consistency of a thin paste , was heated in an air-bath to a temperature just approaching that at which sulphurous acid is generated , to 160 ?
and 170 ?
C. This digestion was continued until a portion taken on a glass rod did not solidify on cooling , or give any solid matter when dissolved in a small quantity of water , which happened after the lapse of seven hours , when the mass had the consistency of treacle .
It was dissolved in cold water , and separated from a black , almost insoluble matter , which appeared to be somewhat crystalline .
Disulphanilate of Barium .
After saturating with carbonate of barium the liquid was evaporated to dryness , by which treatment a futlther separation of the black substance was effected , and the barium-salt was much itm proved in colour .
If the barium-salt be redissolved and the solution evaporated on the water-bath , a horny substance is formed , which on cooling splits by cracks in all directions ; but if the evaporation be completed under the receiver of an air-pump , a mass of microscopic crystals appear , insoluble in alcohol and in ether .
In preparing the new barium-salt , we have found it convenient to precipitate the liquid gradually by alcohol , and to reject , as retaining generally traces of sulphanilate , the precipitate first formed .
Under all circumstances it is very difficult entirely to remove all colouring matter from the solutions of this salt , which is usually of a pale rose colour .
0'4679 grm. , at 200 ?
, gave 0'2810 grm. of sulphate of barium ; 0'3620 grnm .
, at 190 ?
, gave 0'4310 grim .
of sulphate of barium , which numbers agree well with the formula of disulphanilate of barium , C12 ( H , Ba ) N S4 012 .
Theory .
Experiment .
A.a. r 12 equivs. of Carbon ... 72 18'58 5 equivs. of Hydrogen. .
5 1'28 2 equivs. of Barium ... 137 35'30 35'30 1 equiv. of Nitrogen ... 14 3'60 4 equivs. of Sulphur ... 64 16'49 16'32 12 equivs. of Oxygen. .
96 24-75 388 100'00 Disulphanilate of barium blackens without inflaming when heated on foil , in which respect it differs from the sulphanilate , which burns with a bright but smoky flame .
Heated in close vessels it furnishes a vapour , which sublimes in beautiful crystals , probably of sulphite of aniline , obtained under similar circumstances from sulphan-ilic acid .
Disulphanilate of barium is attacked by concentrated nitric acid and gives a yellow liquid , which furnishes on evaporation crystals of a very bitter taste ; sulphate of barium is formed at the same time .
Disulphanilic Acid is easily produced from a lead-salt .
This substance possesses a very acid and pungent taste ; it crystallizes with great difficulty , but is insoluble , in alcohol which precipitates strong solutions in white grains .
This precipitation is assisted by the addition of a little ether .
We have not analysed this body , but we have examined in addition , Disulphanilate of Silver .
The liquid formed by neutralizing a concentrated solution of the acid with carbonate of silver is precipitated cold by the addition of a mixture of equal volumes of alcohol and ether .
The salt subsides in colourless crystalline grains ; the deposition is much facilitated by rapidly stirring the contents of the beaker with a glass rod .
Disulphanilate of silver crystallizes by spontaneous evaporation of the aqueous solution in small laminae which blacken and deposit a black powder when boiled with water .
The formula , 0 4687 grin .
, dried at 120 ?
, gave 0-2134 grm. of silver .
requires 12 equivs. of Carbon .
5 equivs. of Hydrogen .
2 equivs. of Silver I equiv. of Nitrogen 4 equivs. of Sulphur 12 equivs. of Oxygen .
C12 ( H Ag2 ) N , S4 012 , , , Theory. .
72 15'40 .
5 1-07. .
216 4625 * .
14 2'99 .
64 13-70. .
96 20-59 467 100'00 Experiment .
45.53* The researches detailed in the preceding paragraphs may serve to characterize more fully a class of compounds of which only a few telms , isolated and scattered in very different groups , had been previously observed .
The only disulplo-acids hitherto known , were BERZELIUS and LAURENT'S disulphonaphthalic acid and MAGNUS'S ethionic ( disulphethylic ) acid , and lastly , dithiobenzic ( phenyl-disulphodiamic ) acid , recently discovered by M. KILKENKAMP .
To these this memoir adds five new acids belonging to several of the most important series of compounds .
Disulphometholic acid Disulphetholic acid .
Disulphopropiolic acid .
Disulphobenzolic acid Disulphanilic acid .
C ' , H-I S , O , , ... C2 4 , S , 4 012 , , ... C4 I16 4 012 , , CI6 1[ S4 012 .
C12 H16 84 012 .
* C12H7NS4 012 .
Our experiments point out moreover the universal occurrence and the general mode of formation of these substances .
All organic molecules , particularly in the nascent state , appear to be capable of assimilating the elements of either two or four equivalents of anhydrous acid .
The formation of the two groups of acids which are thus produced , presents a great analogy with the production of the nitro-substitutes generated under the influence of nitric acid .
All these compounds are generated with elimination of water .
In the action of nitric acid and sulphuric acid upon benzol , for instance , we have C , ,H+ HN =C HNO =C , ,NO4 +2HO .
Benzol .
Nitrobenzol .
C , j H8+2HNO , =C , s H4 N , s +4HO .
Benzol .
Dinitrobenzol .
C , ,i H+ H , S 0 , O=C , ,1 H S , 08 +2HO .
Benzol .
Sulphobenzolic aid .
C , , H6+2H , 0 S , O , =C , , H S , 0 , +4HO .
Benzol .
Disulphobenzolic acid .
The analogy of these reactions is obvious .
The action of nitric acid upon organic bodies is by no means limited to the production of nitro-compounds , corresponding to nitrobenzol and dinitrobenzol ; frequently additional bodies are formed with elimination of 6 , 8 , and in a few isolated cases , even of 10 equivalents of water .
It is possible that analogous sulpho-compounds may exist ; hitherto , however , no substances have been observed in which the assimilation of sulphuric acid has gone further than in the disulpho-acids .
APPENDIX .
During the prosecution of the researches detailed in the preceding paper , our attention was repeatedly called to the substance which M. LIEBIG has described under the name of methionic acid , and which he obtained in the reaction of anhydrous sulphuric acid upon dry ether at low temperatures* .
The properties of the bariumsalt of this most remarkable acid very closely agree with those which we observed in studying disulphometholate of barium , although both appeared different in composition .
We were repeatedly inclined to admit and to doubt the identity of the two substances .
We have now arrived at the conclusion , that methionic and disulphometholic acid are actually identica .
The formula adopted by M. LIEBIG for the barium-salt is C H , Ba S , 0 , .
If we double this formula we arrive at the expression C2 H6 Ba2 84 0,6=C , ( H2 Ba , ) S4 0,2+4aq , which represents disulphornetholate of bariuml with 4 equivalents of water of crystallization .
Our experiments have actually proved that this salt contains indeed 4 equivalents of water , and that this water is retained at 100 ?
C. .
the temperature at which M. LIEBIG dried his salt before submitting it to analysis .
More recently M. REDTENBACHER and M. WETHERELL have investigated the same barium-salt , but neither of them appears to have remarked the fact , that this salt loses water between 100 ?
and 200 ? .
M. REDTENBACHER analysed a salt which M. LIEBIG had prepared himself .
M. WETHERELL examined a salt which he obtained as a secondary product in his researches on sulphate of ethyl .
Although we have no longer any doubt regarding the identity of methionic acid and disulphometholic acid , we should have liked to offer a direct experimental proof of our opinion by an analysis of the barium-salt obtained either by AM .
LIEBIG'S or M. WETHERELL'S process .
We have therefore repeatedly endeavoured to prepare the methionate of barium both by M. LIEBIG'S and M. WETHERELL'S method .
By following exactly the plan described by these chemists , we have actually succeeded in obtaining a salt possessing all the characters of disulphometholate of barium .
Unfortunately , although we worked upon rather a large scale , we did not succeed in obtaining by either of these processes a quantity of barium-salt sufficient for analysis .
In both processes the salt is the product of a secondary reaction .
IMay 9th , 1856 .
479

