]\gt ; 1887 .
] Waves produced by a Single Impulse .
so that we havo } . . . . .
where . .
and we have by Taylor 's theorem for very small : or , modifying by ( 3 ) .
( 6 ) Put now ' ( 7 ) and using the resuIt in ( 1 ) , we find ; ( 8 ) the limits of the integral being here -co to , because the denominator of ( 7 ) is so infinitely great that , though , the arbitrary limits of , are infinitely small , multiplied by it is infinitely great .
Now we have . . . .
( 9 ) Hence ( 8 ) becomes .
( 10 ) To prove the law of wave-length and wave-velocity for any point of the group , remark that , by ( 3 ) and therefore the numerator of is equal to , where , . . . . .
( 10 ) and by ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ; by which we see that , and , . . . .
( 10 ) which proves the proposition .
* This is the group-velocity according to Lord Rayleigh 's generalisation of Prof. Stokes 's original result .
and , ( 13 ) which is Cauchy and Poisson 's result for places where is very great in comparison with the wave-length , that is to say , for place and time such that is very large .
Example ( 2).\mdash ; Ways in water of depth : Example ( 3).\mdash ; Light in a dispersive medium .
xample 4 .\mdash ; Capillary gravitational waves : .
( 16 ) .\mdash ; Capillary waves : . . . . . . . .
Example ( 6).\mdash ; Waves of flexure running along a uniform elastic : , . . . . .
( 18 ) where denotes the flexural rigidity , and the mass per unit of length .
These Iast three examples have been taken by Lord Rayleigh as applioations of his generalisation of the theory of group-velocity ; and has pointed out in his " " Stauding Waves in Running Water\ldquo ; ( London Mathematical Society , December 13 , 1883 ) the important peculiarity of Example ( 4 ) in respect to the critical wave-length which gives minimum wave-velocity , and therefore group-velocity equal to wave-velocity .
The working out of our present problem for this case , or any case in which there are either minimums or maximums , or both maximums and minimums , of wave-veJocity , is particularly interest1887 .
] Formation of COreless Vortices in a Fluid .
83 , but time does not permit its being included in the present communication .
For Examples ( and ( the denominator of is imaginary ; and the proper modification , from ( 7 ) forwards , gives for these and such cases , instead of ( 14 ) , the following:\mdash ; .
( 19 ) The result is easily written down for each of the two last cases [ Examples ( 5 ) and ] .
IL , ' On the Formation of Coreless Vortices by the Motion of a Solid through an inviscid incompressible Fluid By Sir W. THOMSON , Knt. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 1 , 1887 .
Take the simplest case : let the moving solid be a globe , and let the fluid be of infinite extent in all directions .
Let its pressure be of any given value , , at infinite distances the globe , and let the globe be kept moving with a given constant velocity , If the fluid keeps everywhere in contact with the globe , its velocity relatively to the globe at the equator ( which is the place of greatest relative velocity ) is .
Hence , unless the fluid will not remain in contact with the globe .
Suppose , in the first place , to have been , and to be suddenly reduced to some constant value .
The fluid will be thrown off the globe at a belt of a certain breadt .
, and a violently disturbed motion will ensue .
To describe it , it will be convenient to speak of velocities and motions relative to the globe .
The fluid must , as indicated by the arrow-heads in fig. 1 , flow partly backwards and partly forwards , at the place , I , where it impinges on the globe , after having shot off at a tangent at A. The back-flow along the belt that had been bared must bring to some fluid ; and the free surface of this fluid must collide with the surface of the fluid leaving the globe at A. It might be supposed that the resuIt of is collision would be a " " vortex sheet which in virtue of its instability , would get drawn out and mixed up indefinitely , and be carried away by the fluid farther and farther the globe .
A definite amount of kinetic energy would.be prach armulled in a manner which I hope to explain in an early communication to the Royal Society of burgh .
But it is impossible , either in our ideal inviscid essible density of the fluid is taken as unity .

