]\gt ; 230 .
O. Masson .
On the Wetting of solidus curves , but these unite to form a single solid solution at points on the solidus curve .
( 3 ) The alloys containing over 80 per cent. of silver do not under go segregation under ordinary conditions , and are practically homogeneour and uniform in composition .
They are well suited as a material for the mannfacture of trial-plates .
" " On the Wetting of Cotton by Water and by Water Vapour By ORME , D.Sc .
, .
Beceived Apri125 , 1904 .
Int ?
oductio If thermometers , one of which has its bulb protected by a close coverlng of ot'dinary cotton wool , be aneously immersed in the water , all being originally at the same temperatnre , the protected thermometer shows a marked rise , while the naked one undergoes no perceptible chaIlge .
Heat is , therefore , generated locally by the wetting of the cotton covering .
The maximum temperature is reached in 2 or 3 minutes , after which they is a fnll , the rate of which steadily diminishes a characteristic nner , so that , when all necessary precautions are , a of tempel.ature between the and the mding water is still distinctly perceptible after several hours .
Both the extent of the lise the of the whole change depend on several conditions .
yith a gi thermometer the most important factors the quantity of cotton wool , its initial condition with respect to hygroscopic moisture , the temperature of the water .
Other things being equal , the effect is more with a large covering than with small one and at a higher than at a lower bath temperature , but the previous condition of the cotton is a more important factor than either .
If taken in its ordinary state after exposure to the air of the laboratory , when it usually contains about 8 or 9 ) cent. of moisture , it may show a rise of or C. , but if precautions be taken to insure that it is dry nt the of immersion in ( its own temperature ) , the sample will show a rise of from or more .
The relatively large amount of air hich is always entangled within the cotton wool does not escape during or after immersion , and the bundle presents a glistening appearance under water which suggests that it is not completely wetted .
That this fact is important in connection with the observed temperature change is shown by the behaviour of the so-called ' ' medicated\ldquo ; or { bsorbent\ldquo ; cotton wool , which difl.ers from the ordinary ( nearly pure ) material in having been freed solvents from traces of natural cotton wax .
This gives a Cotton by Water by Water Vapour .
smaller rise , and in its case the glistening appearance is absent .
the quantity of water which penetrates the cotton and remains mechanically adherent to it and the thermowhen they are lifted out after , hour 's immersion , be determined by weighing , and it is found to be less the of the dry cotton in ] the case of the ordinary material , but times greater in the case of the absorbent variety .
Obviously , when they are immersed , the former is both better insnlated has the smaller heat capacity : and will thus show a rger of temperature for a given heat production , and the does not necessarily indicate that the absorl ) wool is less susceptible to such action as may be the cause of the The true nature of this action is indicated in the first place by the that immersion in water is not essential , for the covered behaves in a precisely similar manner exposed to saturated water vapour .
The rise of temperature is as reat greater , though it may take 5 or 6 minutes to reach the xilnum of or 3 , and the subsequent slow cooling cnrve is well as the effects of varying conditions .
In fact it has been proved the experiments to be described that the whole action is essentially same , whether a bath of water or of sattlrated be employed , that in both cases the heat production is due , at all events , to the condensation of watel vapour on the surface of the fibres .
More strictly , this is proved in the case of saturated immersion , and its extension to the other oase is itated by proof of the complete similarity of the thermal changes .
In the of immersion in water the vapour which condenses on the cotton be produced by tion from the liquid , which is prevented complete contact with fibres by the air which adheres to and fills the interstic.es .
There is , therefore , an automatic disfrom the water on to the cotton which aots as a condenser , the heat gained there must be matched by an equal loss of heat the adjacent water , though the large heat capacity of the Iatter any fall of temperature comparable with the observed rise .
Absorbent\ldquo ; cotton wool is found to behave in the variety , in contrast with its much smaller temperaeffect in water .
This is in complete accord the condensation ot vapour that occurs during exposure to never renders the cotton sensibly moist , though it may absorb over per cent. of its weight in a few hours .
It has long been known that rise of temperatnre from the of finely divided solids in water and other liquids .
examined a large number of substances , both inorganic and *'Ann .
de .
et de Phys 1822 , ( 2 ) , vol. 20 , pp. 141\mdash ; 162 . .
O. Masson .
the Wetting of organic , and showed that the property is a general one , that the of and p ; dryness of the are important , the phenomenon is much better marked with animal and table snbstances than with mineral powders .
His experiments , ever , can hardly be as itative , for the rises , of which he records a long list , have no real significancs from the special conditions undet whioh they were observed , they by themselves throw light on the ture of the process causes them .
Later verse seem to have confined their to inorganic such as silica glass , and the recent which will referred to later , is specially notable in connection .
But the uthor is not of any previously thermomctric iIlvestigation the he has adopted , hnving following objeets in view:\mdash ; 1 .
To map the holc course of the observed of of cotton due to its immersion in water , tracing both the rise to maximum and the ) sequcnt fall .
2 .
To do the ' the case of immersion in air saturated ater vapour , and compare the two results .
3 .
To examine the effect of rying conditions and the initial dryness or of the cotton .
4 .
To determine , the of immersio11 in saturated air , course of ] 5 .
To asccrtain the ctween this ) sorption and temperature change .
6 .
To examine the so obtained as to ils bearing on nitttlre of the Pouillot effect .
Apparatus Vethods .
The rmometers required to fulfil the two conditions of being short enough to ) weighed 011 Jccurate 1 ) alance and of yet having lgth of .
As they were likely to be used at various tempe ] atures , a very open scale out of the question .
Those chosen were ' in whole only , from below zero to 100 C. Readings ways made by a telescope with a micrometer scale in the eyepiece .
In all the ] ierexl ) eriments this micrometer scale was used merely for iding the degtees , in those described as Series it was employed so as to make oadings altogether of the thermometer graduations .
of the strnments with a standard thermometer rious temperatures showed the pillary was of practically liform bore , and as all the readings in any iment were to the initial one , so as to give tempsrature differeJlces , any of the thermometer was of importance .
Cotton Water and Vapour .
was generally so placed that one division of the scale was equal to , and readings were taken to They may , in the case of Series , be taken as free from as large as , but the earlier observations are less reliable the reason stated .
The actual temperatures of the immersion as given in the tables , were ascertained by a standard thermothat could be read to , and in all experiments after II these temperatures were maintained constant to within a thermostat .
The experimental thermometer was provided with a tube sufficient length to enclose the bulb and part of the stem , and smooth red-rubber cork was fixed at such a position on the stem the tube , when in use , was closed and air-tight .
All that part the scale which was used in the observations lay above the level of cork , and there was sufficient length below it to admit of proper of the bulb and cotton covering without submerging the itself .
The thermometer was provided with platinnm loops that it could , with its tube , be slumg slantwise on the balance for The cotton uool was tightly wound round the bulb so as to cover it and a small part of the stem , leaving enough room it and the cork for subsequent operations .
From gramme found to be a convenient quantity .
When once properly wound remains in position without any special fastening , but for a long of experiments it is safer to secure it with a single turn of thread .
After winding , it should be hung in distilled water a day to remove soluble impurities derived from the fingers or the air , and should not afterwards be touched .
latter experiments ( Series V ) a duplicate thermometer lvith and tube , but without cotton wool , was used as a counterpoise in and was also put through every treatment in the same way at the same time as the experimental apparatus .
It was hoped this means to minimise any small errors that might result from changes in the weight of the rubber cork .
used for drying the cotton covering before any experiment an ordinary air bath with temperature regulated to about C. with a fairly free draught passing through it .
The bulb of the passed through an opening in the roof , and a slotted cover supported the rubbsr cork outside the bath and protected the heat .
It was proved that an hour 's drying was more than to give constant weight .
may be mentioned here , as a curiously extreme instance of the wet and dry bulb effect , that the experimental thermometer its covering , when lifted out of cold water and placed in the oven , steadily till it reaches a point some or below the oven Dr. O. Masson .
On the Wettang of temperature , then oscillates for some time about that point the oscillations of the gas regulator ) and finally risss steadily to full temperature .
The effect is seen best when absorbent wool is as it carries a much larger store of water .
The immersion bath varied cording to circumstances .
for water immersion , it was simply a glass jar holding about 3 distilled water .
Its temperature was that of the laboratory and thus not the same throughout the series , but it varied only and , and during any experiment it did not alter more few tenths of a degree .
This last variation was recorded and wards approximately corrected for , in plotting the temperature of the covered thermometer .
The results are , of course , though good , less reliable than those of later ssries ; for in all of these immersion bath was placed in a thermostat which kept constant within .
In th Iater water immersion tests the bath was a mouthed thin glass flask containing distilled water , and it was in the thermostat so that only its open mouth was above the surface water in the latter .
For immersion in air saturated with vapour , this flask lvas replaced by another arrangement went some modification as the work proceeded .
In Series III a wide-mouthed glass bottle used , with a layer of water at bottom and with an air current passing through it .
This air previously saturated at the right temperature by passing through lead worm and a wash-bottle , both submerged in the thermostat , it was then delivered into the bottle through a tubulated neck near bottom .
In Series the air current was sent through saturators , and a cover was provided for the bottle so as to when in use , except for the opening which admitted the In Series , as some doubts were entertained as to perfect in previous tests , the bottle was replaced by a large cylindrical porous earthenware , with a hole near the bottom through which current could be conveyed .
The pot was very completely by the water of the thermostat and was provided with perforated covers .
The infiltration of water through the walls kept the inside surface wet and provided alarge and constant area of At the same time the infiltration was not rapid enough to give trouble , even in protracted experiments , if the pot was smptied syphon at the start .
With this rangement it was found that it no appreciable difference whether the air current was used or not , it was not used in the last six experiments of the series .
Hooks , which occupied a fixed position with respect to the that its distance and the value of its scale did not vary , served the vertical suspension of the thermometers during immersion .
small water motor which worked the stirrer of the thermostat connected with the same support as these hooks , and at each Cotton by and by Water Vapour .
235 belt a slight jolt was thus given to the thermometers which the purpose of an automatic tapper in preventing the mercury sticking .
acttml of an is as follows : covered is dried at about for an hour as already described , tube being placed separately in the oven at the same time .
counterpoise thermometer and tube , if used , are treated similarly this and in all subsequent operations .
The instrument is then and quickly inserted into its tube , both being well above and is left to cool to the temperaturs of the balance .
Its weight taken after a momentary loosening of the cork to equalise pressure , it should not vary in a series of tests more than about gramme the mean .
In the twenty experiments of Series , where the instrument was used as a counterpoise , the variation was only as much .
The weight of the dry wool itself may be obtained by the tare of the lment , taken before the bulb was The thermometer , still protected by its tube , is then suspended in immersion vessel ( water or saturated air as the case may be ) and cover put on , and readings are taken by the telescope from time till their constancy indicates that the covered bulb has reached fixed temperature of the thermostat .
About an hour suffices .
The reading is noted as the initial temperature of the experiment .
thermometer is then as rapidly as possible withdrawn , removed its tube , and -hung in the proper position , and a stop-watch is at the moment of immersion .
The cover is replaced , the is adjusted vertically so that its scale occupies exactly the position as befors with respect to a fixed mark on the thermometer , readings begin .
These are taken at short intervaIs , and always , at the maximum temperature and at the finish , at the moment the mercury is crossin a scale line , the tims being noted to the second so long as seconds are of any importancs .
Generally the experiment is stopped at an exact pre-appointed time removing the thermometer as rapidly as possible to its jacket and it is then allowed to take the temperature of the balance and The difference between this and the original dry weight the amount of moisture absorbed during the immersion .
As the temperature cannot be read at the actual moment of stoppage , slight extrapolation is generally necessary to complete the curve ; the exact final temperature may be wanted for a purpose that will later .
Of course , in the case of water immersion the weighing omitted , as cannot be distinguished from that mechanically adheres to the cotton .
At the completion of an air immersion experiment , after the instrument been weighed , it may be at once used for a sscond experiment in which Dr. O. Masson .
On the Wettin of the influence of a known amount of previous moisture is observed , procedure bein similar to that already described .
In Series II immersion tests ) previous moisture was given to the cotton in predetermined quantity by exposing it for suitable times in moist at the ordinary temperature .
To obtain the curve which shows the progress of absorption moisture during immersion in air saturated at any fixed it is necessary not only to accurately maintain the bath at temperature but to guard agai1rst any interference with the of the ootton .
It is an essential feature of the process that the shall become hotter the bath , and the velocity of absorption any moment must be ffifected by the magnitude of this difference temperature .
It is , , impossible to trust an absorption obtained from one long experiment , interl.upted from time to time the purpose of weighing .
After each such interruption the resumes operations at a lower temperature than that at which it off , and moreover it never again gets back exactly on to its temperature curve .
There are other errors also which resuIt such a method , but tlJey are of less importance .
therefore the was adopted of determining each point on the absorption curve means of a separate experiment , starting always with dry cotton , immersing it for different times , but keeping all other conditions same .
The temperature curve was taken simultaneously in each Unfortunately it has not been found possible to so arrange that each temperature curve follows the exact course of the which would be the best proof of the trustworthiness of the tion curve .
The differences , though small , are unmistakable in the case of Series , which was the best in several The extent of these discrepancies will be shown in the summarising results .
The cause of them is not to be found in drying process , as is proved by the uniformity of dry weight ; in premature absorption through the corks after weighing , as was disproved by special tests ; nor in incompleteness of of the air , nor in any other circumstance pecnliar to the air sion experiments , for similar small variations occurred in temperature curves got by water immersion .
It is probable fore that the errors ariss at the moment the thermometer is drawn from its tube at the start of each experiment , and that exposure to air of variable temperature and moistness , brief though it initiates a disturbance that shows itself later in the manner It is not easy to devise a remedy that would not introduce troubles its own .
Finally it may be pointed out the constancy of bath temperature , and the fact that the cotton is always hotter than bath , afford security against any error such as might otherwise be by deposition of dew .
Cotton by and by Water Vapou Erperimental In what follows and in the curve diagrams\mdash ; is the time measured in minutes from the moment of immersion of cotton-covered thermometer ; is the temperature of the same at the mome1lt , in degrees its own initial temperature , which is the constant temperaof its environment , being taken as zero ; is the maximum value attained by in the course of the is the value of which ; is the weight of water vapour , in milligrammes , absorbed in the is the weight of any water vapour , also in milligrammes , absorbed the cotton prior to the commencement of the experiment ; A is the area , determined by planimeter , bou1lded by the curve , axis , and a vertical ordinate to the time ; The terms " " water immersion\ldquo ; and ' satnrated air immersion " " have been fully explained .
" " Previous moisture " " serves to designate of which the quantity is .
The term " " dry cnrve " " is used to one belonging to an iment in which the cotton is to start with from those which show the eflcct of previous It is lmnecessary to reproduce here the numerous and readings the experiments .
They are therefore summarised in the following giving the values of and , the final values of and , and corresponding values of A and ( where determined ) , and the value in cases where previous moisture was present .
In Tables III and calculated values of } are given also .
The mode of calculating A will explained later .
Some of the curves are shown the diagrams , and references to these are given in the ) The experiments which formed Series I were oi a purely preliminary and are therefore omitted .
Those of Series II were , as explained , less accurate than ones but they are correct for their purpose , for they show by with Series III general similarity of the ature challge produced by watel and by saturaled air immersion , both with and without moisture .
Series III also gave information as to the progress during exposure to saturated air ; and the main purpose and Series was to trace this more fully in connection the temperature change .
They also supplied some evidence as to influence of bath temperatnre and weight of cotton .
Finally water tests , carried out in conjunction with Series , gavs .
O. Masson .
On the Wetting of curves of accurnte comparison with those turated a imme1 under otherwise identical conditions .
experiments of Series V more exact than any of the for sons a Cotton by Water and by The temperature curve of Experiment 8 is shown in fig. ) , where the companion cllrve ( a ) represents a water immersion experiment under otherwise similar conditions .
In fig. 4 , the temperature curves are shown as obtained by the dry cotton in air saturated at ( a ) , so to test the effect of the greater vapour pressure .
The following table these additional tests .
Dr. O. Masson .
On the Wetting of The Temperature C'urve .
In all the experiments this curve is obviously of such a form for any given value of , there are two values , say on the slope , and on the descending slope ; and when has its value .
Inspection of any of ths curves representing experiments in previously dry eotton was immersed , either in water or in air , brings out two relations which hold good with accuracy .
The first is that the two times for any given vary as one another , or being necessarily equal to The second is that varies inversely as the sum of its two or and the value of is necessarily Selecting Experiment 20 of Series to illustrate these rules , find that does not vary more ) about 2 per cent. on either side the value , and that , which is when is at its rises as falls to about 152 and then falls again towards its value .
Similar , and sometimes , deviations from constancy shown in all the experiments .
Equations ( I ) and can evidently be combined to give one approximately oharacterises the whole curve , .
: ( III ) , where is any time , has the corresponding value , and and have the values already assigned to them , viz. , and It follows that the whole course of any such curve is definable in of the special values assumed by and .
In other words , " " law corresponding states\ldquo ; is arrived at , which may be most simply by giving to Equation ( III ) the form , or may be words as follows:\mdash ; The temperatnre curvss for all experiments , whatever the should be superimposable if in each case the values are expressed fractions of and the values as fractions of This suggests a method for comparing the curves for water sion and saturated air immersion more exactly than can be done mere inspection .
The resuIts are Qhown in Tables VI and VIL each of these the fourth column contains the same selected values , and the first column contains the corresponding values .
The figures in the second and third columns respectively show Cotton by Water by Wate at which these values are obtained on the scending and descending slopes of the curve , and the fifth and sixth columns show the corresponding values of the and values may be taken as experimental numbers , having been found by careful interpolation from the recorded readings .
is the result of actual observation ; but is from its nature not sharply defined , for the temperature always remains sensibly constant at its highest point for a consideral ) fraction of a minute .
The values of used in the tables , shown at the head of the second and third columns , were therefol.eoI ) ined by plotting the arithmetic means of and for values in the neighbourhood of and then slightly extrapolating the so formed .
No appreciable error is introduced by treating this portion of the curve as a straight , though in fact it is part of rectangular hyperbola .
Practically the same value is obtained by ssun it is the geometric mean of the and of any closeiy contiguous value .
The so found is of course well within the prescribed by actual observation .
For the comparison of saturated air immersion with 1 } ater innnersion , the figures in the fifth and sixth columns of Table should be read together with the corresponding figures of Table .
The differences are such as would be accounted for by comparatively experimental error , and are indeed not greater than might occur in a similar comparison of two saturated air tests .
The results point therefore to the identity of the effects , and so of the oauses at work , in the two cases .
For a comparison of either case with the results indicated by the Equation ( III ) , the figures in the last four columns of Tables and VII may be read with the calculated values shown in Table VIII .
It is evident that there are greater differences between the calculated and found values than between the found values of air and of water immersion , and that the tendency in both cases is for the smaller to be in practice a little too small , and the larger to be a little too large for the theory , while bheir product still remains of practically unit value , as indicated by the equation .
Such differences are somewhat more strongly marked when the experiments at the lower bath are studied the same way ; IJUt here , again , the close similarity between the water and samrated air conspicuous .
Whether the agreement between the equation values and those of the experiments would be improved by elimination of such errors as may arise from the short initial exposure of the cotton to outside air , from the lag of the thermometer , or from other causes ( some of which may work in opposite directions ) , it is impossible to say without further data .
Cotton by Water and by Water cription of Fig. 5.\mdash ; Curves showing beluaviour of of cotton dry .
Bath mpcrature , in 1tU cases .
ables A. Absorption curve in saturated air bath up to 12 hours .
Moisture itbsorbed ( m ) in milligrammes .
B. Temperature curve corresponding to A. C. The early part of curve on an enlarged time scale .
D. Temperature curve obtained by immersion in ater ; othern C. One araoteristic feature of the temperature curve in every case , and well shown in fig. 5 , , is the rapid approximation of the portion to the form of a rectangular hyperbola .
This is indeed indicated by Equation ( III ) , since , when is large enough is practically negligible , and .
The temperature of the cotton , therefore , cannot in aIly finite time return absolutely to that of its environment .
This points , also , to there being no finite limit to the vapour absorption process which is the cause of the heat supply\mdash ; a result which will be discussed later .
Meantime , it may be noted that both the temperature effect and the progress of absorption are still distinctly manifest after 12 hours , and could certainly be followed for days if necessary .
The temperature curves showing the effects of previous moisture ( figs. 1 and 2 ) may evidenlly be regarded , in respect to their down slopes , as representative of later portions of the dry curve , for they could take their origin from such times as would account for the absorption of so much previous moisture in the same environment .
Thus the curves ( fig. 2 ) would start at 6 , 15 , and 64 minutes respectively .
Even then , however , the new curve would at its highest point fall below the original one , and the two would never really coincide afterwards .
Thus a psrmanent interference with the normal course of the temperature is caused by interrupting the absorption process , and again resuming it after the cotton has cooled in its closed tube , and this must naturally react to some extent on the subsequent absorption rate .
The Curve .
The best and most numerous data are those for Series V ( Table V ) , and the curve for these is shown in fig. 5 , A. In plotting it , the mean value has been used in cases where there Cotton by ) by more than one determination .
The curves for earlier series are as far as they go .
The absorption occurs rapidly at first , and with diminishing velocity , but the evidence does not point to practical finality being reached for many days , and there is no limit to the process .
Like the curve , that for evidently show an asymptotic approach to the axis .
For the complete curve for the 12-hour experiment of the is shown on the same plate ( B ) as the curve ( A ) .
It is very that the moment of maximum temperature marks bub a small in the progress of absorption , and that the heating effect of latter must be continuous throughout , and would continuously raise temperature if not counteracted .
Relation of the Temperature , Tim The net rate of gain or loss of heat by the covered thermometer at any moment must depend upon both the rate at which it is receiving heat from the vapour condensation , and the rate at which it is losing heat by radiation , convection , and conduction .
If it be assumed ( 1 ) that the heat received is directly proportional to the weight of moisture condensed , ( 2 ) that the rate of loss of heat due to the above causes is directly proportional to the difference of temperature between the thermometer and its environment ( assumptions which the results will justify later ) , it follows that ( IV ) , where , and have the same significance as before ; is the normal heat loss by the covered thermometer , due to radiation , etc. , per unit per minute ; is the heat capacity of the same , i.e. , of the cotton and that part of the thermometer which is directly affected ; and the unit of heat adopted is that quantity which is rendered available by the absorption of 1 milligramme ( unit ) of moisture by the cotton .
From Equation it follows by integration that for brevity , ( V ) , result which is manifest when it is considered that the total heat received by absorption from the beginning of any experiment up to any stated time is represented in part by the total heat lost within that time , and in part by the amount still retained by the covered thermometer in excess of its original heat contents , and also that the total heat lost is proportional to the average and the whole time , the product of which is A. It is evident that , while is a constant by hypothesis ) throughout Dr. O. Masson .
On the WjttincJ any series of tests performed under similar conditions , is from very nature of the case a variable ; for it must increase gradually proportion to the vapour absorbed .
As a fact , however , it will shown that the error arising from a neglect of this increase of in application of Equation ( y ) is negligible , provided that its value the beginning of the experiment be fairly correctly estimated ; for it only at this end that is at all large in comparison with , and the time that has undergone any noteworthy increase itself be a mere correctio The values of and may be deduced from the experiments selves in the following manner : ths first place , since at turning point wheIl and , it follows Equation ( IV ) that here .
This value of can be got with fair accuracy by measuring the slope of the cnrve the time : hence , is approximately determined .
But a more valne can be obtained by measuring A for a long in has become a mere frac.tion of and A is very large , so that may be fairly negleeted in quation ( .
The value of being that of ( taken constant ) by applying this equation experiments of short duratio1J .
The case serves for tion : curve for Series , in which and gave about as the value of at minutes ; xperiment 2 of the series in 720 minutes , when was only and A was ; hence .
This last value was to give consistent results in the other experiments if were taken as the value .
The figures in the colunm headed ( caled .
) in Table were got from these values of and In the case of Series ( Table III ) , where a different thermometer and less cotton were used , and where the atmosphere of the bath ( saturated at instead of ) was less moist , slightly different figures were required , and If the curve were rigorously defined by Equation ( III ) , it follow thab and so that could be lated from the time by the equation which involves the three constants , ( of the curve ) , .
As a matter of fact , a very fair approximation to the values may be got in this way , though the agreement is not so good as when the measured A and are used , in which Cotton by Water and by also the calculation is independent of any purely empirical of The only experiments designed to test this question were those summarised in Table and illustrated in fig. 4 .
The curves are there seen to cross one another on the down slope in such a way as to suggest that the rates of absorption , originally higher at the igher bath temperature , reverse their order of magnitude not long after passing the maximum .
This conclusion would necessarily follow from Equation ( IV ) if were a constant for the three experiments at , and , for then must be equal for any pair at the moment of crossing , and is manifestly of larger negative value there for the curve belonging to the higher bath temperature .
But , though essentially a constant unaffected by temperature , is known to be susceptible to change if the amount of ater apour in the air be altered , as is the case in passing from an experiment at one bath temperature to one at another , and , as a matter of fact , measurement of the areas of the curves for , and , and comparison of them with the actual values at 65 minutes , show that must be given the approximate values , and respectively .
And when this differonce is allowed for , it appears that the rates of absorption in the three experiments originally different approach the same value , but do not reverse their order .
For a proper investigation of this question complete series of experiments would be required at different bath temperatures , all other conditions being the same .
Iagnitude of the Development .
In the precsding tables there is sufficiently good agreement between the found and calculated values of to justify the statement that the two assumptions on which the calculation is based are substantially correct .
It is tolerably certain that neithe1 ' of them is rigorously true , but it may be taken as proved that the heat during the immersion of cotton is , for practical purposes , proportional to the weight of moisture absorbed .
This does not necessarily mean that there is else to be considered than the simple heat of liquefaction .
It may be so , but the condensation of vapour may be supplemented by some other process , either exothermio or endothermic .
The experimental method that has been employed not p test the question thus raised , but the rough calculation shows that there be no very large diffe ) ' ence between the heat of liquof}ction and the heat of bsorption by cotton :\mdash ; VOL. LXXIV .
Dr. O. Masson .
On the Wetting of In Series V it was found that in the neighbourhood of maximum temperature .
Therefore , from the definition of the heat capacity of the instrument used , the heat liberated per milli .
gramms of water absorbed .
A measurement of the volume of bulb and also of known lengths of the stem of the thermometer made by weighing it suspended in water before it was covered with otton , and the total volume of glass and mercury subsequently covered was calculated from these data to be .
If the volume heats of glass and mercury be both taken as .
per , which is not far from true , the heat capacity of that part of the thermometer which was directly affected was .
The specific heat of cellulose is , according to Fleury , , and as the cotton used weighed very nearly gramme , the total heat capacity of the dry instrument may be taken as .
The addition for moisture already absorbed at the maximum temperature is about .
Hence , the heat evolved per milligramme of vapour absorbed is This is practically to the heat liberated cal .
when a milligramme of pour at condenses to form liquid water at were the experimental conditions .
But the uncertainties involved in the above ation f any further conclusion than that already given , , that the heat of absorption by cotton is composed mainly of the heat of liquefaction of water .
Sumrnar and of Rjsulfs .
In the preceding pages it has been shown ( 1 ) that the conspicuous rise of temperature which cotton undergoes when immersed in vater and its subsequent slow fall follow the same course as the similar change which results from its exposure to saturated with water vapour , and that both are affected in the same way by previous moisture and other conditions ; ( 2 ) that in the latter case the heating is the direct result of the absorption of ths vapour by the cotton , and that the two processes can be quantitatively connected ; ( 3 ) that both absorption and heat productio1l continue appreciably for many hours , though the rise of temperaturc is soon succeeded by a fall because the heating effect is counteracted by , etc. , and that the evidence points to no definite limit to the absorption process ( 4 ) that the heat produced ) the absorption is of about the same gnitude as the heut of liquefaction of tho quantity of vater , but may be , in fact , either rather more or less ; ( 5 ) that in the case of immersion in water , though tho absorption of vapour cannot be * ' Chem. Soc. Abstr 1900 , vol. 2 , p. 188 .
The phenomel } evidently their origin in a difference of physical atFmitics , which implies some ferenco b their Cotton Water and Vapour .
observed , it must certainly occur , and that the air which adheres to fibre and fills all interstices maintai1ls that separation of water cotton surfaces which is necessary for distillation to occur from to the other .
Two question@ remain to be discussed , , the fate of the after it has been condensed on the snrface of the cotton , and bearing of the conclusions here arrived at on the nature of the effect in eneral .
As to the first question there seem to be three possible views .
One of these\mdash ; the view that it becomes chemically combined to form definite hydrates of \mdash ; may be quickly dismissed , as there are no facts to support it and as the evidence points to the absence of any definite limit to the action .
The ease with which the action is reversed ( for the cotton parts with practically all its moisture if kept for a day at the ordinary emperature over sulphuric acid ) is not by itself evidence gainst the chemical theory , but it may be mentioned here .
At the opposite extreme is the view that the moisture forms and remains as a liquid film on the surface of the solid .
If it is so , the film must in time become a snbstantial one , as the following calcnlatio1l shows .
The average diameter of cotton fibres varies , according to the , between and inc The mean of these may be taken as the most probable average diameter in the present case , viz. , inch , or cm .
Actual measurement of fibres under the microscope led to practically the same result but were not numerous enough to give a perfectly trustworthy average value .
The density of cellulose may be taken as ( Clarke 's Specific Gravity Table ) .
The total surface of any given weight ( w ) of cotton may be calculated on the assumption that the fibres are uniform cylinders of such length that the ends are negligible , in which case the area is .
cm .
If grammes of be deposited on this surface a film , the thickness of the film is sq .
cm .
In xperiment 2 of Series ( Table V ) was gramme and was shown to have attained the value nlme at the end of 12 hours .
In this case , therefore , the thickness of the film would be about cm .
Now Dr. G. J. concluded from similar calculations that in all such " " the thickness of the surface film varies from to cm .
ding to the substances used and the colt ( itions of tempel.ature and pressure , for the water film on glass in saturated vapour at C. the is about cm Hence the film on cotton the above case was considerably outside Dr. Parks 's superior limit , and it by no hnOn thickness oiquid Formed byChem \ldquo ; Condensation at the Surface of a Solid ' Phil. Mag May , 1903 , p. 517 .
Dr. O. Masson .
On Wetting of means attained its growth and , in fact , threatened to indefinitely .
It seems probable , therefore , that the deposiled moisture does not remain as a mechanically adherent film on the surface of the and the third hypothesis may be suggested .
This is , that it continnous osmotic diflnsion into the substance of the fibre and with it what may be regarded as a solid solution of cellulose and Such a solution would exercise a vapour pressure of its own would , at anything less than infinite- dilution , be smaller than that pure water at the same temperature .
In a saturated atmosphere fore equilibrium would nover be reached , though the velocity of absorption process would decrease continuously as the solution more dilute .
The heat developed locally by the action , i.e. , the heat to the deposition of the liquid plus or minus a small heat of would go to raise the temperature of the above that of the bouring water by which the vapour is supplied , and would thus tend check the action by increasing the vapour tension of the solution ; but natural cooling by radiation , etc. , would again act as a counter-check .
placed in an atmosphere containing water vapour at anything less saturation pressure open the cotton would , in reach a state of equilibrium either by absorption or by ccording to its initial condition , and it would part wibh all its water the surrounding atmosphere were maintained in a perfectly dry slowly or according to the temperature .
This is all in the ascertained facts , and as it is also that the cotton fibre is by water , the hypothesis be justified .
As solids in general have the power of condensing vapours on surface , it was not ising to find a marked heat development cotton wool in air saturated with the rapour of alcohol , -cotton in air saturated with water vapour , and glass in the same ; but the effect was considerably smaller than when wool was immersed in water vapour under similar conditions .
case of glass wool the temperature curve was taken and veighings made so as to determine the amourlt of vapour absorbed .
The meter wrapped as closely as possible with the materiaI , which secured by a few turns of fine minium wire , and the other ments were the same as in SeIies .
The glass wool weighed , drying , gramme .
The diameter of the fibres was measured the microscope and was to vary from about It would have been necessary to make a large nnmber of to determins an accurate value , but cm .
may be taken the mark ; and this , with density of , would make the of surface about 720 .
cm .
or about of the area exposed the cotton wool of Series .
The maximum rise and Cotton Water and Water Vnpour .
experiments , and this was reached in 2 minutes , as nearly as possible .
first test was continued for 40 minutes , when about 17 milliof vapour was found to have been the second stopped at 5 minutes , whsIl about 7 was the weight found .
The curve resembled that of cotton wool in a general way , for rose steeply to the maximum and showed slow descent ; but its quite different in this , that it gave not even a rough to those rules which.have been found to govern the case .
This fact and the relatively small absorption ( ance made for difference of area ) are just what might be from the presumably impermeable character of glass , as probably the condensed water remains as a mere surface film .
According to the iews flready put forward as to the of the change when cotton is immersed in water itself , it secmed that little or no effect of the kind would be produced by cotton in absolute lcohol or glass wool in water , though cases llotable effects followed immersio1l in the bath of air saturated with vapour .
As a fact , no change could be observed .
In case of glass wool and water , the test was very carefully carried and there was 1lot the least sign of departure from the initial which was that of the surrounding the water .
change of could hardly have escaped notice .
Apparently , the effect does llot occur when the liquid is capable of rapidly completely wetting the solid , and destroys the air insulntion .
oonfirmation , it was foutld here , as in the case of ' ' bsorbent \ldquo ; wool already describsd , the thermometer when lifted from carries it a much larger weight of mechanically adhering water than comes away with a wrapping of cotton of the ordinary There is not the least doubt that the thermal effect dealt with this paper is radically different from that ated by Dr. G. J. Parks by the use of precipitated silica and of glass wool* attributed by him to a pressure at the surface of of solid liquid .
In the first place , the Parks effect is manifested as a rise of tempsrature on mixing the solid and water , and he it and determined its value by employing the immersion vessel a calorimeter ; whereas the cotton wool elffect is local would be altogether prsvented by any mixing process efficient to make complete contact between the solid tIld liquid .
next place , Parks took the maximum temperature , reached in 3 minutes , as tive of the completion of the action , while has been proved in the other case that the action , though tding a maximum temperature in about the same time , has thoIl but on an apparently endless career .
Finally the * ' Phil. August , , p. 240 , May , 1903 , p. 517 .
264 On the Wetting of Cotton by Water and by Water Vapour .
value of his heat production as about .
per sq .
cm .
surface of exposed glass or silica , whereas it can be shown from already given that even in the case of saturated air immersion , twelve times this quantity of heat is not generated but transferred square centimetre of cotton wool in the first few minutes when , as stated , onlya smallfraction of the total action has occurred .
As the effect is so small it is easy to understand how it escaped observation the author 's experiment with glass wool , already described , where conditions were altogether unfav5urable , having been arranged different object ; for Parks himself , using a larger ntity of which he gently stirred with about the same amount of water contained in the author 's immersion vessel , obtained a rise only It is difficult to say for certain whether the heating effects originally by Pouillet were due to the phenomenon investigated Parks and styled by him " " the Pouillet effect , \ldquo ; or were the results action similar to that described in this paper , or included both .
as he heaped his dry solid round the bulb of a delicate thermometer , and was careful not to disturb the heap by stirring it after adding the liquid , it is unlikely that true contact was established at once completely , and it seems reasonable to suppose that he had to do local heating by condensation of vapour .
The still more striking , similar observations of Martini probably to be explained the same way and not , as he suggests , by the solidification of water .
In conclusion , it may bc pointed out that the hygroscopic behaviour of cellulose and the thermal changes associated with it have a practical importance of their own on the side of vegetable physiology , and perhaps also in other directions , apart from any interest they niay on purely physicul grounds .
* ' Phil. Mag. ' [ 5 ] vol. 47 , p. 329 ; vol. 50 , p. 618 ; [ 6 ] vol. 5 , p. 595 .

