]\gt ; 1904 .
] The Zongitudinal Stability of Aerial The angular velocity of rotation of the body will be or We shall use to denote the mass of the body , its moment of inertia about the csntre of gravity .
Whatever be the law of resistance , the resistances of the air on the several parts of the system will in general be functions of and These resistances are always equivalent to two forces , which we shall call and , along the axes , and a couple about the origin , so that , ilenote the forces and couple , divided by the mass of the body .
The equations of motion of the body are\mdash ; In steady motion and are constant , and equations 1 ) give .
Knowing the forms of the asroplanes and other parts of the system and the law of resistance , X , are known functions of and Moreover , in steady motion , Equations 2 ) thus determine the value@ of , for steady motion .
Fluctuations about Steady \mdash ; We must now examine what happens when the system is slightly disturbed from its state of steady motion .
Let the disturbance be represented at time by small increases in the values of , and let bd their values in steady motion , so that in the disturbed motion , Also Jet be the forces and couple in the @teady state ; then in the disturbed statp we have , neglecting small quantities of the second order , X ( 3 ) , and two similar equations for and G. We shall denote differential coefficients such as . .
by Substituting in the equations of motion , we obtain , to first order , Dr. G. H. Bryan and Mr. W. R Williams .
To solve these equations , put Substituting , dividing by , and re-arranging the terms , we have The Lougitudinat Stability of Aeriat Gliders .
Equation 4 ) or is bhe period equation for small fluctuations about steady motion .
In order that the steady motion may be stable , the roots of this biquadratic must either be real and negative , or complex with their real parts negative , and Routh* finds that this will be the case if the six quantities , Ei , and are all of the same sign .
Since A is essentially positive the remaining five quantities must all be positive .
We shall denote the last quantity by H. Theorems .
The general transformation formulae , connecting the nine coefficients referred to any given system of axes with those referred to any other system of axes , may be easily written down and need not be discussed here .
( 2 ) The work of calculating { , hese coefficients for a given system may be reduced if the resistance is proportional to the square of the velocity , for X , will then be homogeneous quadratic functions of , and Euler 's theorem of homogeneous functions gives , remembering that and applying 2 ) , 3 ) If is the velocity of gliding , the coefficients .
are all functions of for a given angle of gliding .
But mg being , in steady motion , equal to the vertical resistance , is proportional to Hence if be eliminated , the values of . .
are inversely proportional to V. In this case and the expression or -EB- assumes the form .
Thus the conditions of stability and impose limits on the value of V the remaining conditions only * Routh , ' Advanced Rigid Dynamics , ' p. 167 .
Thia section and also the subsequent parts enclosed in . . . . . .
have been written October 27 , Dr. G. H. Bryan Mr. W. E. Williams .
depend on the form dimensions of the machine and the angle of gliding .
shall now show how the nine coefficients can calculated for a system of aeroplanes if the laws of variation of the resultant pressures and of the positions of the centres of pressure are known .
shall assume that the resultant pressure on a plane varies as the square of the velocity , acts in a direction normal to the lamina .
therefore write , where is the area of the lamina , the velocity , and the angle between the plane of the lamina the direction of motion , a constant depending on the units employed .
The function has been determined } ) Langley certain rectangular pIanes .
Also , let the distance of the centre of pressure from the centre of figure be ) , : being the breadth of the lamina .
Experiments to determine for square planes have been made by Joesel , Knmmer , and Langley , S and Kummer has also experimented on oblong planes , with their longer side in the direction of motion .
Their esults show a certain of discrepancy , and there appears to be considerable difficulty in obtaining consistent results at small inclinations .
Further experiments are very necessary , and it is to be hoped that more attention will be given to determinations of , when their importance , as affecting the stability , has been recognised .
Experiments show that , are , to a first approximation , independent of the translational velocity of the lamina , but the effects of a rotational angular velocity , , have never been considered .
It .
would not be difficult to determine these effects by experiments with a whirling table , making the angular velocity of the table .
Failing such experiments , these effects must be neglected , and , as is zero in the steady motion , and only small oscillations are considered , they are probal ) small .
When the system consists of a number of planes rigidly oomlected together , we may now write the component forces and couple in the form * ' Experiments in mics , ' p. 62 .
Joescl , ' Memorial du Genie 'Berlin Akad .
ndlullgen , ' 1876 , S .
cit. , p. 90 .
1904 .
] The Ion.qitudinat Stability of Gliders .
where is the area , the breadth of the lamina , the rdinates of its centre , the resultant velocity of its centre , the angle which the direction of motion makes with the axis of the angle which the plane of the lamina makes with the axis of , so that is the angle between the plane and the direction of motion of the centre of mass , and finally , The summation is to be extended over all the planes of the system .
If , now , be the component velocities of the centre of gravity the velocities of the centre of the lamina be given by and for steady motion , since We may therefore write the expressions for the forces in the form taIl neglecting terms in Similarly , entiating these expressions with respect to we have : or , since in the steady motion , oos , Similarly , Dr. G. H. Bryan and Mr. W. E. Williams .
Since in the steady motion . .
, 4 .
Numerical Calculations for Parhcular Cases .
Single Lamince .
We now consider the stability of certain particular systems , beginning with a single plane lamina .
Since the lamina is falling steadily under gravity , its .
must necessarily be horizontal .
Take the axis of parallel to this plane , then , and , therefore , ; also , for brium , The coefficients , therefore , become , KSvf ( -KSuf ' , , , .
Ex. 1.\mdash ; Consider a square plane , balanced so as to fly at an angle of , with the centre of gravity in the plane , and suppose its radius of gyration given by Professor Langley 's l.esults give for particular angle and from 's formula 1904 .
] The Xongitudinat Stabitity of Aerial also stituting these values in the above expressions for . .
, we have KSVa , KSVa , Substituting these values in the expressions for , given in S(2 ) , and remembering that by the conditions for steady motion , we obtain and therefore This expression will be positive if , and this condition will also make positive .
The glider will therefore be stable if its velocity is greater than , the units being feet and seconds .
Ex. 2.\mdash ; Let us now take the angle of gliding to be , and assume as before .
At this angle we have With these values , we have KSVa , KSVa , KSVa , KSVa .
Substituting in the expressions for , etc. , we have The latter is positive when , which is therefore the condition of stability .
Dr. G. H. Bryan Mr. W. E. Williams .
are given by Langley for a lamina of by the shorter side in the plane of motion .
In the absence of any information as to , we shall assume ( whether correctly or incorrectly ) the same values as for square planes .
Let the moment of inertia be given , before , by angle of we have uting these values in the expressions for the coefficients , we have KSVa , KSVa , KSVa , Substituting again in the expressions for , and , we have , assuming Therefore This is positive if , which is therefore the condition of stability .
5 .
Glijlers Formed of tzoo Proceeding now to consider the stability of systems made up of several planes rigidly connected together , we shall first consider the stability of a gliding system supported on two slats , which are so narrow that disp]acements of their centre of pressures due to variations of the angles of incidence of the wind may be neglected .
shall first suppose that the two slats are the same plane , and that the } centre of gravity is also in this plane .
1904 .
] The Stability of Aeriat tiders .
In this case , , and vanish , and therefore , from ( 6 ) , see that the coefficients ill be zero , and the equilibrum is critical or neutral .
[ This result , which is also evident from first principles , holds good equally when the centre of grayity is not in the plane of the iaminae .
In order to make the system really stable , the laminae must be inclined at small angles to the line joining their centres .
Calling these angles and , neglecting q ) , and writing ws get in the equations ( 8 ) , , , .
The conditions for steady motion give With these substitutions , those of the nine coefficients hich in the limiting case of coplanar laminae given by Dr. G. H. Bryan and Mr. W. E. Williams .
and an ression for , which is not required .
The coefficients may for a first approximation be taken the same as in ( 9 ) .
We notice the following points .
( 1 ) The expressions for and contain the factor .
In the laws of resistance commonly assumed decreases as increases , and this coefficient , therefore , becomes negative if i.e. , if the two planes slope towards each other referring to the front plans .
This is the case in a gliding machine furnished with a rudder , if the rudder is tilted slightly upwards .
In such cases must be negative , hence and are positive , and are negative .
( 2 ) If and are of the first order of small quantities , also being of the first order , the expressions and are of the first order , but and are of the second order , and hence equations 6 ) give approximately the five coefficients , E. ( 3 ) The fifth stability condition appears at first sight difficult to reconcile with the smallness of the coefficients for small inclinations of the planes , as is of a er order of small quantities than BCD .
To satisfy this fifth condition , however , the important thing is to make small compared with C. Now will be found to consist of two parts , one independent of and the other negative and proportional to , while is proportional to , hence stability can best be secured by making sufficiently large .
] If the planes are not infinitely narrow , it will be found that are the same as before , and , and are both increased by .
This have the effect of altering in the same proportion , and will , therefore , not alter the stability , except when , when the additional term will prevent from zero .
is increased by the term This term will , in general , be negative , and therefore will be diminished , which will have the effect of inishing B. 6 .
Examples of Two-Plcvne Gliders .
We shall now assume oertain particular values for the dimensions of gliders of this form , and proceed to calculate the conditions of stability . .
4.\mdash ; Let o first consider the case of the two slats of equal area set at angles such that The ongitudinat Stabitity of Aerial have from Langley 's results , ; ; efore , if we put , we have .
Let assumed Substituting in the expressions for , we have IKSV , KSVa , and therefore , KSVa , I ' , This is positive if Ex. 5.\mdash ; Let us now take the case of two equal square planes inclined a small angle to each other .
Let and let be the breadth of either plane .
For these angles we have For equilibrium we must have whence Dr. G. H. Bryan and .
W. E. Williams .
to be .
Substituting these values in the expressions for coefficients , we have ItSV OKSV , again in the ressions for we obtain , , putting is positive if , $ffiich is the condition of stal)ihty for form of glider .
By putting represents approximately the extreme length of the glider , and the condition of stability reduces to .
6.\mdash ; Consider next the case of two unequal square planes , inclined at an angle , and in the first suppose that the smaller plane is in front .
Let and be the respective areas , and suppose Let be the breadth of the large planle , and that of the smaller , also let the distance between the centres be equal to .
and let Let the angle between the large plane and the direction of motion he , and let the angle between the two planes be also , so that the small plane is inclined at an angle of to the direction of motion .
Then we have For equilibrium we have , if be the distance .
and of large plane , .
Therefore , so Substituting in the expressions , etc. , The Stability of Aerial Gliders . .
these in the expressions for , etc. , as , that we ve ' This will ) positive if .
This condition will also make positive , and is therefore the condition of stability .
7.\mdash ; Let ns now suppose the small plane to be placed behind the other being inclined to it an angle of , the direction of motion again making an angle of the pIane and being as in Ex. 6 .
In this oase we have If the distance between the centres of the planes be , the conditions of equilibrium give Substituting , we obtain ni KSVn , K@Vt ' , S0000 will be positive if V The condition of stability is therefore that V [ ? .
of of It will be seen fionl ( 5 ) that the radius of tion , occurs in the expressions , the first two coefficients of the determinantal equation .
We have .
In all the cases considered and are positive , and therefore these two coefficients Jositive for values of VOI , .
LXXIII .
I Dr. G. H. Bryan and Mr. W. .
Williams .
the BCD -AD ) , it may be written CD-II is therefore with increase of ' if At the critical velocity , if , this becomes Unless this condition is fulfilled , the critical velocity given by increases with increase of In all the numerical examples considered above , and \amp ; is positive , so that the critical velocity is increased by increasing Thus in Ex. ( 1 ) was taken equal to the critical velocity obtained was .
if , instead , had taken , the critical velocity would havs been ) , 1904 .
] 8 .
Cht , rrf the ations lilJtJl .
Mode in which the The character of the tions about steady motion depends on the nature of the roots of the biquadratic , the expressions for the displacements being evidently of the ving forms:\mdash ; For roots all real For roots two real , two imaginary For two of imaginary roots .
The last form indicates two different sets of undulations of different leIlgths .
Photo of the paths of gliders taken by magnesium light distinctly these two urldulations , thus confirming our theory .
An ortaJlt further consequence is that a glider perform uldnlations decreasing amplitude , corresponding to a pair of complex roots of the biquadratic with their real negative , but the motion may be unstable through the other roots having their real part positive , or one or both of them being real and positive .
This indicates a real danger in experimenting with gliders .
Stability may be broken either if real of the equation changes from negative to positive , or if the real part of a pair of imaginary roots changes from negative to positive .
The condition for the latter is that , whereas a real root J. tdinrd Stabilit of challges s. If stability is broken by a fall of velocity the quantities hich can vanish are and , of these is more difficult to positive than , and hence it appears that .
the most likely for a glider to overturn in general is by commencing with a series of oseill , tions of .
This again agrees with experiments .
9 .
1 .
For lider ( other body moving in vertical in a resisting medium of any kind whatever , the smaII oscillations ) a state of uniform reetilinear motion are determined by an equation of the fourth degree , so that the conditions for stable steady motion those obtained by Ronth . .
The coefficients in the period tion involve , in addition to the ordinary dynamical constants , nine quantities , which , referred to rectangular axes fixed in th body , represent the differential coefficients of the forces and couple due to the aerial resistances with respect to its translatory and rotatory velocity components .
3 .
In the case of a system of aeroplanes these nine quantities can be expressed for the separate planes in terms of and , where and are functions deternxining the resultant and the position of the centre of hell the direction of the relative motion of the makes an angle with the plane .
These functions have been tabulated different forms of surfaces , but further data are greatly needed .
4 .
stabilit , of the thns of , and it is of importance that the present methods shouJd be practically applied to aerial machines that may be designed or constructed before aIly actual ides a ttempted .
5 .
The methods of calculation are exemplified by numerieal determinations of the criterion of stability in the cases of a single lamina and a of planes one behind the other .
Iost of the tions have been performed for an angle of .
of with the horlzon , and it ) necessary to assume values for the moment of inertia of the lamina .
6 .
The condition that any steady linear motion may ) in these cases assumes the form , where is a depending on the linear dimensions of the glider , and is a constant on its , the anglc of gliding and the law of aeril 7 .
For a ) .
of slats , in hich the variations in the Sition of the centres of pressurc of each arc neglected , certain coefficients of stability yanis If the planes are square so that the displa ements of the centres of pressure not the system is less stable than a single plane of breadth equal to one of the squares .
8 .
a small angle to each other the stability Mr. E. S. Salmon .
eriments with is much increased .
On the other hand , if they made to slope from each other the glider ) ecomes unstable .
9 .
Two square planes of equal size placed one ehind the other at small angle are less stable in the examples considered than a equal in size to one of the two , but more stable than a single side is to the total length of the glider formed the pair .
10 .
A pair of unequal of which the forms a are morb1 stable , in the examples considered , when gliding with rudder behind than with the rudder in front .
11 .
In general , the stability is } by making the moment inertia as small as possible .
Cultural Experiments with ' Biologic Forms ' of the Erysiphacece By ERNEST .
Communicated by Professor H. MARSHALL eceived D ) , 1903 , \mdash ; Read February 4 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) In remarks the author points out that through tion of parasitism " " biologic forms\ldquo ; have been evolved in the iphaceoe which , both in their conidial asex ) stage and ascigerous ( sexual ) stage , show specialised and restricted powers of infection .
The powers of infection , characteristic of each ' ' biologic form are under normal conditions sharply defined and fixed , and hitherto the result of the experiments of numerous \mdash ; both in regard to the present group of fungi and to the , where the same speeialisation of parasitism been the accumulation of evidence tending to emphasise the immulability of ' ' biologic forms The second part of the paper gives the result of cultural experiments with ' ' biologic forms\ldquo ; of , carried out during the past summer in the Cambridge University Botanical Laboratory .
It been found that un elhods of in which vitnlit , th is }'Cidu.ith , the restricted of jristic of\ldquo ; biologic ' down .
In the first method of culture ndopted , the leaf , which either attached to a growing plant , or removed and placed in a damp chamber , was injured by the removal of minute piece of leaf-tissue .
In thir : operation the epidcrm cells on one surface , all or most of the mesophyll tissue , were removerl ; the cut place , but the epidermal on the other surface ( opposite the cnt ) were left un ?
njured .
were sown on surface of the uninjured cells the cut .
in is oxperiments the conidia were

