1883 .
] On the Skeleton of the Fishes .
439 From the second series\#151 ; .
1 B.A. unit= '98669 x 109 C.G.S. From the third series\#151 ; 1 B.A. unit= *98683X109 C.G.S. As a mean we take\#151 ; 1 B.A. unit=*986\lt ; / X 109 C.G.S. With nse of the ratio between the mercury unit and the B.A. unit , found by us ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. " May , 1882 ) this gives\#151 ; 1 mercury unit= *94150 X109 C.G.S. , or , which is the same thing , the ohm is the resistance of a column of mercury at 0 ' Cent. , whose section is one square millimetre , and whose length is\#151 ; 1062*14 millimetres .
The very close accordance between the result of the present investigation , and that obtained by the'method of the revolving coil ( .98651 ) , and by Glazebrook ( *98665 ) , using another method again , leads us to hope that no error of importance can have escaped detection .
The Appendix is devoted to a record of experiments having for object the determination of the absolute pitch of a certain tuning-fork , which has served as the standard of time throughout all our work upon this subject .
It is believed that the method employed is worthy of attention , and may be useful to other physicists .
II .
" On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes .
Part I. The Myxinoids .
( .Myxineand By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) At present nothing is known of the development of these remarkable fishes , but their structure in the adult state is of great interest , and as the other related type\#151 ; the Lamprey\#151 ; has had great attention given to it lately , in most of its stages , I have thought it would be profitable to anatomists to have a detailed account of the skeleton in these lower and less known types .
I received several specimens of the adult Hag-fish ( Myxine ) from my friends the late Professor Rolleston , F.R.S. , and Mr. Frank Buckland ; for fine specimens of the gigantic type ( Bdellostoma ) I am indebted to Professor Ray Lankester , F.R.S. My guide in this work has been the excellent and most accurate Johannes Muller\#151 ; his four memoirs ( well known to anatomists ) op .
440 Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 11 , the Myxinoids and related types have been absolutely necessary to me .
I shall be proud if this and the next paper are thought worthy of being considered an appendix to his incomparable works on these types .
But as regards the Marsipobranchs generally , especially the Lamprey , I am deeply indebted to Professor Huxley 's writings and to discussions with him upon these fishes ; and in the same way to the late Professor F. M. Balfour , F.R.S. ; and I am indebted further to my young friend Mr. W. B. Scott , of Princeston , U.S. , who , after Calberla , has worked largely on the early development of the Lamprey .
" ' " ' What I have been able to make out with regard to the skeletal parts of the Lamprey will be offered to the Royal Society very soon , and then the structure of the adult Myxinoids and of the various stages of the Petromyzoids can be compared together .
But the various kinds of the " Anurous Amphibia ''\#151 ; hundreds of species\#151 ; give us , in their larval state , a sort of temporary generalised Marsipobranch fish ; it is not unknown that I have given several years of labour to these types , and I feel now that I may , with caution , attempt to explain the morphology of the skeleton in all these three related groups\#151 ; the Myxinoids , the Petromyzoids , and the Anura .
However far apart , now , these three groups may be , they are seen to be the nearest of kin to each other when we consider the other " Ichthyopsida .
" Moreover , they form a curious scale , so to speak , one rising above the other in a regular order ; for the Myxinoids are a sort of arrested Ammocceteor larval Lamprey , and the Lamprey in its adult state is quasi-larval if it be compared with the anurous amphibian\#151 ; Frog or Toad .
^ , I The Myxinoids are very anomalous , and this is seen even in their , histology ; in them , as in the Lamprey , there are two kinds of cartilage \#151 ; one very dense and almost as hard as bone , and the other soft , like the cartilage of young embryos of higher types .
But in the Myxinoids one very large bar , the great basi-branchial , is formed of a light , elastic , vacuolar tissue , but little denser than that of their great persistent non-segmented notochord , and , like it , ensheathed in a very thick web of fibrous or tendinous tissue .
I suspect that this fact will have a meaning for the student ot the lower non-craniate " Chordata .
Amphthe Ascidians , \amp ; c. In the wide-mouthed , non-suctorial larvae of the Cape Toad ( Dactyl-ethra)\#151 ; I found the whole chondro-skeleton composed of a P^har kind of cartilage intermediate between hyaline cartilage and this vacuolar tissue of the Myxinoids ; it is more like t e pi o a p a than like ordinary cartilage .
n .
In their cranio-facial skeleton the Myxinoids are very remarkable , where segmentation is perfect in other piscine types ey on exhibit a lattice-work of continuous growth ; m the median region 1883 .
] On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes .
441 the skull-base , where other types show but little or only temporary distinctness of parts , these fishes develop and retain large independent cartilages .
' _ ... The lamprey has a large superficial basket-work of soft cartilage ( extra-branchial ) , and its gill-poucbes keep related to this and to the rest of the structures of the mouth and throat .
But in the Myxinoids the basket-work is intro-branchial , and corresponds to the system of segmented arches of the higher Cartilaginous , the Ganoid , and the Osseous fishes .
But these non-segmented arches soon lose all relation to the branchial pouches , which are removed so far backwards that they begin under the twentieth myotome ; whilst the end of the pericardium is under the fortieth .
In seeking light upon the primordial condition of the Vertebrata , one naturally looks to such forms as the Myxinoids .
For in these types , even in the adult state , there are neither limbs nor vertebras , and no distinction between head and body , except the beginning , in the head , of a cartilaginous skull\#151 ; a continuous strnot showing the least sign of secondary segmentation , and by far the greater part of it in front of the notochord , or axis of the organism .
But here our gradational work agrees with the developmental , for the continuous skull-bars constantly arise before the secondary cartilaginous segments that are found between the myotomes behind the head .
Evidently , therefore , the early " Craniata " grew supports to the enlarged and subdivided front end of their neural axis , long before any structures beyond strong fibrous septa were developed between the muscular segments of the body .
As for the linear growth , the greater or less extension backwards of the main organs\#151 ; circulatory , respiratory , digestive , urogenital\#151 ; that , in the evolution of the primary form , was a thing to be determined by the " surroundings " of the type .
" Thereafter as they may be was the tentative idea in this case .
Certainly , in the Marsipobranchs , and in their relations , the larval " Anura , " we have the most archaic " Craniata " now existing ; in these the organs may be extended far backwards in a vermiform creature , as in these low fishes , or kept well swung beneath the head \#151 ; the body and tail together forming merely a propelling organ , as seen in Tadpoles , especially the gigantic Tadpole of Pseudis .
Thus we see that in low limbless types there is no necessity for the development of more than fibrous " metameres " in the spinal region ; but the vesicular brain , the suctorial lips , the branchial pouches , and the special organs of sense\#151 ; these all call for support from spin\#174 ; tissue more dense than a mere fibrous mat or web .
In the Myxinoids we see that four special modifications of the connective tissue series are developed for the support of the properly cephalic organs , and for them only ; thus these fishes are Craniata , but are not Vertebrata ; that is , if we stick to the letter , which , of course , we do not .
Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 11 , At first some disappointment is felt , after careful study of these types , for , notwithstanding the low level in which they remain\#151 ; they are mere specialised Ammoccetes , keeping on the same " platform " as the larval Lamprey ; \#151 ; yet some parts of their organisation do undergo a marvellous amount of transformation , and are , indeed , as much specialized in conformity with their peculiar habits of life as my Vertebrates whatever , the highest not excepted .
Yet , on the whole , the Myxinoids are a sort of Ammoccetine type , whilst the transformed Ammoccete , the adult Lamprey , comes nearest to the untransformed Frog or Toad\#151 ; the Tadpole .
But the mere putting of this shows ( suggests at any rate ) what losses the Fauna of the world has sustained during the evolution of the Craniate forms ; now , the Myxinoids , Petromyzoids , and numerous Amphibia must all be kept " within call " of each other ; but the types that have been culled out between them cannot be numbered .
Some other kinds of fish are evidently the descendants of primordial " Marsipobranchs , " notably Lepidosteus , the development of which has been lately studied , and the results of which are being published in the " Philosophical Transactions .
" But the Chimceroids , Dipnoi , and , still more important , the Myxinoids , themselves , have still to be followed through their early stages .
If the present paper is of any value to the morphologist , one on the embryology of these low forms would be worth much more .
The Myxinoids keep on the low " platform " of the larval Lamprey ( Ammocoete ) in the following particulars , namely :\#151 ; a. The notochord has no paired cartilaginous vertebral rudiments in the spinal region .
b. The trabeculae end in the ethmoidal region without growing forwards into a cornu ( or two continuous cornua ) .
c. There are merely " barbels " round the mouth ; no labial cartilages .
d. The last character involves this , namely , that the special armature of horny teeth , attached to the labials in the adult is absent .
e. The organs of vision are very feeble , and probably almost useless ; in the Ammoccete they are arrested for a time .
f. The cranium is a mere floor , without side-walls or roof .
The Myxinoids come near to the adult Lamprey in the following particulars , namely:\#151 ; a. There are developed outside the skull proper , but not segmented from it , palato-quadrate and hyoid cartilages .
b. There is a very large median cartilage belonging to both the hyoid and branchial regions .
c. The cranium acquires a floor by the development of a special " hinder intertrabecula .
" 1883 .
] On the Skeleton of the M Fishes .
443 d. There is a large median cartilaginous olfactory capsule .
The Myxinoids go beyond even the adult Lamprey in the following particulars , namely:\#151 ; . ? .
The facial basket-work is much more perfect ; and as this is a generalised condition of the true intra- system of cartilages , it is a very important character ; there is not only a development of the " suspensorium , " equal to that of the Lamprey , but the suspensorial part of the hyoid is developed also ( it is suppressed in the Lamprey ) ; and there is , in Bdellostoma , a large complete first branehial arch , and in both kinds pharyngo-branchial rudiments of the second branchial arc*h . ? .
The respiratory ( branchial ) pouches are much more specialised by being carried far back under the spine .
c There is not only a distinct sub-cranial intertrabecula , but also a large pre-cranial or nasal median cartilage of the same nature .
d. The opening of the median olfactory sac is not a mere short membranous passage , but a long tube , encased in a series of cartilaginous ( imperfect ) rings . .
e. Correlated with the non-development of the suctorial labial cartilages , there is an enormous development of the lingual , this basal bar becoming not only double , but in front quadruple , and the " supra-lingual " cartilages , which are very small in the Lamprey , and carry only one pair of rows of small second teeth , are in the Myxinoids very large , and carry two pairs of rows of large teeth , with the addition of a median antagonistic " ethmoidal tooth .
" Lastly , the greater development of the intra-visceral ( = intra-branchial " ) cartilages is correlated with the suppression of the extra-visceral basket-work seen both in the larval and adult Lamprey , and also in the larvae of the u Anura , generally .
Morphologists must kindly accept this piecemeal work of mine ; it will take on a form , or frame , some day ; but much of the materials for its completion are still wanting , and , when obtained , the working of them out must not be done hurriedly , ! !
I may remark , that having just now to work at " the extremity of both ends " of the Vertebrata\#151 ; the Marsipobranchs and Mammalia __I find the former very excellent as carriers of light to the latter .
Everyone will see that by far the greater bulk of the existing Vertebrata are very specialised , each order and class on its own lines , and that any creature to be like a primordial mammal must be very generalised or archaic .

