X. " Letter to Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. , containing Observations made at Malta on a Planetary Nebula .
" By WILLIAM LASSELL , Esq. , F.R.S. Malta , 26th Sept. 1862 .
MY DEAR SIR , In directing my large equatoreal upon the wellknown planetary nebula situated in ARE 20h 56 " N.P.D. 101ยง 56t ( 1862 ) , it has revealed so marvellous a conformation of this object that I cannot forbear to send you a drawing of it , with some description of its appearance .
With comparatively low powers , e. g. 231 and 285 , it appears at first sight as a vividly light-blue elliptic nebula , with a slight prolongation of the nebula , or a very faint star , at or near the ends of the transverse axis .
In this aspect the nebula resembles in form the planet Saturn when the ring is seen nearly edgewise .
Attentively viewing it with higher powers , magnifying respectively 760 , 1060 , and 1480 times , and under the most favourable circumstances which have presented themselves , I have discovered within the nebula a brilliant elliptic ring , extremely well defined , and apparently having no connexion with the surrounding nebula , which indeed has the appearance of a gaseous or gauze-like envelope , scarcely interfering with the sharpness of the ring , and only diminishing somewhat its brightness .
This nebulous envelope extends a little further from the ends of the conjugate than from the ends of the transverse axis ; indeed , it is but very faintly prolonged , and only just traceable towards the preceding and following stars .
There is a stai near its border , northwards , in the projection of the conjugate axis .
The breadth or thickness of the ring is , unlike that of Saturn , nearly uniform , or equal in every part , so that its form most probably is either really elliptic , and seen by us in a line nearly perpendicular to its plane ; or , if really circular , and seen foreshortened , a section throughout any part of it , limited by the internal and external diameters , must be a circle .
In other words , it will be like a circular cylinder bent round .
It could scarcely fail to bring to my mind the annular nebula in Lyra , especially as there is a conspicuous central star ( proportionally , however , much brighter than that which is in the centre of that nebula ) , and yet the resemblance is only rudely in form , for this ring is much more symmetrical and more sharply defined , suggesting the idea of a solid galaxy of brilliant stars .
The ring is not perfectly uniform in brightness , the south-preceding part being slightly the most vivid .
The transverse axis is inclined to the parallel of declination about 13 ? .
A series of micrometrical measures of the length and breadth of the ellipse gives a mean of 26"'2 for the transverse , and 16"'6 for the conjugate axis .
The accompanying drawing has not been at all corrected by these measures , but is the result of several sketches made during different observations , and is a faithful transcript of the appearance of the nebula to my eye , when most favourably seen .
The object is , as may be supposed , one of extreme difficulty , requiring in the highest degree the combination of light and definition in the telescope , and a favourable state of atmosphere , -which will further appear when I state that it was not until I was favoured with an unusually fine night , and had applied a power of 1480 , that the whole of the details were brought out .
I confess I have been greatly impressed by the revelation of this most wonderful object , situated on what perhaps we may consider as the very confines of the accessible or recognizable part of the universe , affording ground for the inference that more gorgeous systems exist beyond our view than any we have become acquainted with .
I am , &amp;c. , WILLIAM LASSELL .

