XI .
" Electro-Physiological Researches."-Tenth Series .
Part I. By Signor CARLO MATTEUCCI , Professor in the University of Pisa .
Communicated by MICHAEL FARADAY , D.C.L. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 12 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) In the first section of this part of his Memoir , Professor Matteucci treats of the heat developed by muscles during contraction .
Adverting to earlier experiments by other inquirers , in which a rise of temperature was observed to take place in the contracting muscle while the blood still continued to circulate through it , and where , consequently , it remained uncertain how far the effect might not be due to a modification of the circulation , the author describes his own experiments , by which it is shown that the muscles of frogs , after all circulation of the blood has ceased , and by the sole act of contraction , cause a rise of temperature amounting to about half a degree Centigrade .
The second section is devoted to the consideration of the electric current exhibited by muscles at rest , and experiments are adduced in illustration of the following propositions:a .
The electro-motive power of a cut muscle is independent of the size of its transverse section .
b. The electro-motive power increases with the length of the muscle .
c. The electro-motive property of the muscles of living or recently killed animals is greater in mammals and birds than in fish and amphibia .
The duration of this force , which in all cases decreases most rapidly in the first moments after death , is greater in fish and amphibia than in the higher orders of animals .
d. The nerves have no direct influence on the electro-motive force of muscles .
In general , all causes which exert an influence on the physical structure and chemical composition of muscles , so as to modify , in ways unknown , their irritability or contractility , act equally on their electro-motive power .
Prof. Matteucci here takes occasion to state , that he has verified the important discovery of Du Bois Reymond , of the existence of an electric current in portions of nerve detached from the body , -a current which , like that of muscle , passes , in the galvanometer , from the surface of the nerve to the interior .
He adds , that he could perceive no marked difference in the relative duration of the electromotive power of muscle and nerve .
In the third section , the author discusses anew , and with the aid of fresh experiments , the phenomenon originally named by him induced contraction , in which the nerve of a " galvanoscopic limb " of a frog , being laid on a muscle of a living or recently killed animal , is stimulated by the contraction of that muscle , so as to cause at the same moment contraction in the muscles of the galvanoscopic limb .
He endeavours to show , that this phenomenon is due to an actual electric discharge , which takes place in a muscle at the moment of contraction , in an opposite direction to the ordinary current of the muscle while at rest .
The deviation of the galvanometer-needle during the contraction of a muscle , which occurs in an opposite direction to that previously caused by the electric current generated by the muscle while at rest , was ascribed by M. Du Bois Reymond to the diminution or cessation of the latter current when the muscle contracts , and to the operation in such circumstances of the secondary polarity of the platinum plates of the galvanometer .
Professor Matteucci , however , adduces various experiments to show , that , by certain arrangements described , he is able entirely to prevent the occurrence of secondary polarity , and that nevertheless the deviation of the needle takes place .
After adverting to the want of reliable data on which to found an explanation of the physical cause of the phenomenon in question , the author hints , that as there is no analogy between the form of the voltaic electromotor and that of the molecular electromotor , it is not impossible to conceive that the change of form which takes place in a muscle during contraction may be momentarily followed by the inversion of the muscular current in the exterior arc .
He observes , that examples are not wanting , taken from certain cases of electrodynamic induction , and also of voltaic circuits , in which this inversion of the current can be obtained by a change in the form , or relative distance of different parts of the circuit ; but he adds , that this is a new field of inquiry , which cannot be given up to merely hypothetical views .
The last section of the paper is devoted to the consideration of the mechanical effects of muscular contraction ; and experiments are stated with a view to compare the efective work of a muscular contraction , as determined empirically with the work calculated according to the principles of the dynamical theory of heat .
Employing the dynamometer already described in the fourth series of his researches , the allthor has found that the mechanical work effected by a single contraction of the gastrocnemius muscle of a frog may be expressed by 0'00001457 kilogramme-metres .
Determining next the quantity of zinc required to be oxidated in the pile in order to excite a single contraction , he finds that the force developed by the muscle is enormously greater than could be accounted for on the supposition that it is produced by the conversion into muscular energy of the equivalent of electricity corresponding to the quantity of zinc oxidated .
He accordingly concludes , that the electric current which excites a muscle to action does not represent the force exerted by the muscle , which is more probably to be referred to the chemical changes , such as oxidation , which take place in the muscular tissue during contraction .
The consideration of this branch of the inquiry will form the subject of the second part of the Memoir .

