IV .
" On the Action of Solid Nuclei in liberating Vapour from Boiling Liquids .
" By CHARLES TOMrIINSON , F.R.S. Received November 5 , 1868 .
History.-During many years after the invention of the barometer and the consequent discovery of atmospheric pressure , the boiling-point of a liquid was defined to be the temperature at which its evaporating tendency is equal to the common pressure of the atmosphere , or the lowest temperature at which its vapour can have the elasticity of common air .
About the middle of the last century it was noticed by several distinguished Fellows of this Society that the boiling-point of water under a constant pressure varies within certain limits , according to the depth to which the thermometer is plunged into the boiling liquid .
In the Report on Thermometers published in the Transactions for 1777 , it was stated that the steam from boiling water fairly represents the atmospheric pressure ; and it was recommended that , in determining the boilingpoint , the water be boiled in a metal vessel constructed so as to allow the bulb , and nearly the whole of that part of the stem that contained mercury , to be surrounded by the steam .
In the fine experiments undertaken by Dalton , Watt , Robison , Southern , and others for determining the pressures of saturated steam at different temperatures above and below the standard boiling-point , it was noticed that if a minute portion of soda or of some salt soluble in water , and not capable of rising in vapour with it , be allowed to ascend to the top of the mercury , the column rises , thereby indicating a diminished pressure of steam .
The adhesion of the soda to the water tends to restrain the water from evaporating , and thus the steam-emitting tension of a solution of soda is measurably less than that of pure water at the same temperature .
In 1785 Achard* showed by a number of experiments that the boilingpoint of water , under a constant pressure , is much more inconstant in metallic than in glass vessels .
He also noticed that if , while water was boiling steadily in a glass vessel , a drachm of iron-filings or of some other insoluble solid were added to the water , the boiling-point was lowered 1 ?
Reaumur or even more , and that there were considerable differences in the amount of depression , according as the same substance was in powder or in lump .
In 1803 De Lucti stated , in very precise terms , that boiling is produced by the bubbles of air which the heat disengages from the liquid .
If the water be completely purged of air it cannot boil , because steam can only form on free surfaces , such as the air-bubbles present .
Deprived of air , water can boil only on the upper or free surface .
Water in a tube from which the air had been carefully expelled was raised to 234-0 F. without boiling .
Inl 1812 , and again in 181.7 , Gay-Lussac* noticed Achard 's experiments on the effect of the vessel on the boiling-point , and of metal turnings , charcoal powder , and pounded glass in lowering it .
he supposed the boiling-point to vary in different vessels according to the nature of their surfaces , and that the variation depends both on the condticting-power of the material for heat and on the polish of the surfaces .
When water is boiling in a glass vessel , the temperature is higher tha n in a metal one ; but if a few pinches of iron-filings be put in , the boiling goes on as in a metal vessel .
Without this aid the water boils in bursts , the steam having to overcome the cohesion or viscosity of the liquid , and its resistance to change of state .
The adhesion of the liquid to the vessel must also be a force analogous to its viscosity .
The use of platinum is recommended for preventing sou6resauts .
In 1825 Bostockt noticed that ether in a matras over a spirit-lamp boiled at 112 ?
F. ; but in a test-tube put into hot water it did not begin to boil under 150 ?
, and on one occasion 175 ? .
Bits of cedar-wood put into the ether made it boil at 110 ?
; the wood was covered with bubbles until ( according to Bostock ) having discharged all its air , it became inactive and sank .
Bits of quill , feather , wire , pounded glass , &amp;c. also lowered the boiling-point considerably .
A thermometer plunged into the ether produced bubbles many degrees below the point at which ebullition took place when the thermometer was not inserted : this effect soon ceased ; but by alternately plunging the thermometer into the ether and removing it , the bubbles were produced at each immersion .
Legrand : in 1835 also referred burstinog ebullition and sou6resauts to the absence of air in the liquid .
Many salts prevent soubresauts ; others , such as the neutral tartrate of potash , favour them .
In 1842 Marcet ?
considered that iron , zinc , and other substances tend to depress the boiling-point , because they have a less molecular adhesion for water than glass has .
If the vessel be coated with a thin layer of sulphur , gum-lac , or any similar substance that has no sensible adhesion for water , the temperatures of the water and of the steam are alike .
The boiling-point varies in flasks of different kinds of glass , and in the same flask at different times .
In a flask used for holding sulphuric acid the boiling-point of pure water was 106 ?
C. These variations are referred to molecular changes on the surface of the glass .
In 1843 Donny[t referred to the powerful influence of air or gases dissolved in the liquid on the phenomena of ebullition ; but as his theory is the same as that advanced by De Luc many years before , it is not necessary to notice it further .
In 1861 Dufour{[ described an experiment in which globules of water suspended in hot oil are said to have been raised to from 110 ?
to 178 ?
C. without boiling ; but the moment they were touched with a solid they burst into steam .
Porous bodies acted best because , it is said , they carried down air to the globules .
Such is a very brief notice of a few of the numerous memoirs that have been published on the subject of boiling .
The writers are all more or less disposed to adopt the following conclusions:-(1 ) that liquids boil with difficulty , or produce only sudden flashes of steam , as soon as the air which had been dissolved in them is expelled by heat ; ( 2 ) that those liquids that have the weakest affinity for air , such as sulphuric acid , alcohol , ether , &amp;c. , boil with the greatest difficulty ; ( 3 ) that the adhesion of the liquid to the vessel , and the mutual cohesion of its own molecules , cause the liquid to boil in bursts , and produce sozubre1sauts ; ( 4 ) that the action of solid substances in preventing soubresauts is by carrying down air .
My object in introducing a new set of experiments on boiling is ( 1 ) to show the action of solid nuclei in liberating vapour from liquids at or near the boiling-point ; ( 2 ) to define the conditions under which soubresauts take place ; and ( 3 ) to show what is the best remedy for the same .
Definition.-A liquid at or near the boiling-point is a supersaturated solution of its own vapour , constituted exactly like soda-water , Seltzer-water , champagne , and solutions of some soluble gases .
Action of Nuiclei.-If the above definitior be admitted , the behaviour of solid substances in liberating vapour on some occasions , and remaining " inactive " on others , becomes clear .
If the solid be chemically clean , the solution of vapour will adhere to it as a whole , and there will be no liberation of vapour .
If , on the contrary , the solid be unclean , the adhesion between the vapour and the solid will remaiin the same as before , while the adhesion between the liquid and the solid will be more or less diminished , according to the nature of the impurity and the liquid operated on ; and hence there will be a separation of vapour .
But not only is it necessary to distinguish bodies as chemically clean or unclean , but also as porous or compact .
The same force by which one volume of charcoal absorbs 98 volumes of ammoniacal gas , enables charcoal and some other porous bodies , when thrown into a boiling liquid , to separate the vapour from it , and thus to act as most efficient nuclei , The liquids operated on were water , alcohol , ether , wood-spirit , naphtha , carbonic disulphide , benzole , paraffine oil , oil of turpentine , rosemary , and a few other essential oils .
The liquids with low boiling-points are converient for illustrating the phenomena in questlon .
Any one of them in a tube about one-third or onehalf filled may be raised to the boiling-point by putting the tube into hot water contained in a sixor eight-ounce German fiask standing on the ring of a retort-stand .
The tube should fit loosely into the neck , and rest on the bottom of the flask .
In reheating the water a small spirit-lamp flame may be applied , not directly under the tube , but on one side of it , the object being to keep the liquid in the tube at or near the boiling-point , but not actually boiling .
The temperature of the liquid in the tube may be taken from time to time , and the thermometer , when not in use , may be kept in a tall narrow glass containing a little of the liquid under examination .
Carbonic disulphide , from its low boiling-point , gives off vapour with facility , and is consequently well adapted to show the action of solid nuclei .
When the tube was placed in the hot water , a quantity of dense white vapour ascended from the surface of the liquid to the top of the tube ; but instead of overflowing it condensed in copious tears , which fell back into the liquid and caused a strong descending current .
On touching the surface of the liquid with the end of a brass wire , violent ebullition set in , the bubbles rising to near the mouth of the tube .
The boiling ceased altogether as soon as the wire was removed ; but when the surface was touched with a strip of paper , .
it set in as violently as before .
Now in these two experiments no air could have been carried down , siiice the surface only was touched , and the boiling continued only while the solid was kept in contact with such surface .
Iron wire also liberated vapour abundaintly .
The end of a glass rod was active at two small points , liberating from each a rapid stream of bubbles , the remaining portions being clean , or having soon become so by the action of the hot liquid , since glass is readily cleansed by liquids near the boiling-point .
But it is said that rough bodies are most favourable to the liberation of vapour .
The hot carbonic disulphide was touched with a rat's-tail file , and it produced furious boiling .
The file was then held in the flame of a spirit-lamp , and while hot placed in the upper part of the tube , so that it might cool down to about the temperature of the liquid , and yet be sheltered from the air .
On touching the surface of the disulphide with the end of the file , there was no liberation of vapour ; and the file was slowly passed to the bottom of the liquid , but still there was no action .
The file was now taken out and waved in the air ; on reinserting it into the liquid , there was a burst of vapour arising from some mote or speck of dust caught by the file from the air .
The file was quickly cleaned by the liquid , and it became inactive as before .
It was again taken out and wlaved in the air , and on once more putting it into the liquid boiling set in again .
A tube containing ether was put into the hot-water bath ; it quickly reached the boiling-point , and two specks in the tube became active in discharging rapid streams of bubbles .
Specks of this kind are often powerful as nuclei in separating gas from soda-water &amp;c. , and in causing the sudden crystallization of supersaturated saline solutions .
Such specks in the bottoms of flasks , beakers , and retorts are powerful nuclei in separating Vapour from a liquid during the boiling .
The vapour seems to be generated by these poiits , and to proceed from them to the surface in rapidly enlarging bubbles .
Thiese'specks consist of iron , carbon , or some other material which is not so readily cleaned as the glass , or they present a porous point to the vapour .
243 As the temperature of the water-bath fell , the ether in the tube ceased to give off bubbles of vapour .
A small pellet of writing-paper was now thrown in : the liquid boiled up furiously , the paper being much agitated , when suddenly it sank as if dead , and all vapour-giving action ceased .
It had become , in fact , chemically clean .
The paper was removed and a brass wire passed to the bottom of the tube , when the whole liquid boiled up briskly during a few seconds ; when , the wire becoming chemically clean , all action ceased , except from a point near the bottom of the wire , which continued to pour off a fine stream of bubbles during some minutes .
The wire was now taken out and filed , in order to get rid of this nucleus .
On returning it to the tube the ether boiled up as before , the handling and filino having made the whole immersed surface unclean ; but the ether soon cleaned it , and it became inactive ; but the active point was not only not got rid of , but there were now two points rapidly discharging vapour .
These points are probably portions of porous dross entangled with the metal .
During these experiments the ether was maintained at about 96 ?
, and it boiled only when a solid nucleus was introduced .
Methylated spirit was raised to about 178 ? .
A piece of flint that had long been exposed to the air was put into the tube ; it gave off vapour from its surface in abundance .
The flint was taken out and broken , and the two fragments were returned to the spirit .
The newly fractured surfaces , being chemically clean , were quite inactive , not a single bubble of vapour appearing on them , while the outer surface continued to give off vapour as before .
A strip of slate gave off vapour from a number of points in both surfaces ; it was split into two strips and replaced in the hot liquid ; the old surfaces were active as before , but the fresh surfaces were perfectly inactive .
Mica and selenite do not answer well for these experiments .
In the specimens tried , air containing dust had been dragged in in patches between the plates ; these , when newly split and put into soda water , showed considerable portions that were chemically clean in the midst of unclean patches .
The action of nuclei can be well exhibited in oils with high boiling-points , such as the essential oil of turpentine , rosemary , &amp;c. When the oil is boiling in a tube over a spirit-lamp , a strip of slate with one new surface may be introduced before the lamp is removed , so as to prevent the oil from being chilled .
If , now , the lamp be taken away , vapour will pour off from the unclean surface of the slate during some minutes , while the freshly fractured surface will be quite inactive .
The behaviour of nuclei , as thus far described , is the same as for supersaturated saline and gaseous solutions .
A chemically clean nucleus will not separate either the salt or the gas from solution ; a chemically unclean nucleus will do so immediately it comes in contact with the solution .
If the definition I have given of a liquid at or near the boiling-point be accepted , and it be admitted that solid nuclei behave in the same manner under the same conditions in separating salt , or gas , or vapour from solution , what is the action in this respect of air and gases ?
It has been maintained that air is a powerfuil nucleus in separating salt from a supersaturated solution , that it is the air alone , as carried down by the solid , that acts as a nucleus in separating gases from solution , and that if air be absent from a liquid it cannot boil , because there is nothing for the vapour to expand upon .
I have shown in former experiments that , in the case of supersaturated saline solutions , air is not a nucleus ; but that when it appears to be so , it is merely acting the part of a carrier of some chemically unclean mote or speck of dust .
I have also shown that masses of air may be introduced into soda-water without any separation of the gas , provided the conditions of chemical purity be observed .
A wire-gauze cage , for example , full of air can be lowered into soda water without producing any discharge of gas into the cage , or any separation of gas from the surface of the cage , so long as it is chemically clean ; when unclean , there is an abundant separation of gas from the surface of the cage , but the enclosed air remains purely passive all the time .
A similar result may be obtained in the case of a liquid at or near the boiling-point , if precautions be taken to raise the cage to the temperature of the liquid before introducing it .
The cage used in these experiments was smaller than that used in the soda-water experiments .
It was five-eighths of an inch in diameter , and an inch and a half in length , and made of fine iron-wire gauze , such as is used by millers in bolting meal .
Two of these cages were prepared .
One was cleaned by being put into boiling spirits of wine ; it was rinsed in clean water , and so held in the steam of pure water boiling in a test-tube , so that the cage and the enclosed air might be adjusted to the temperature of the water .
The cage was gently lowered into the water the moment the spiritlamp was withdrawn .
There was no escape of vapour ; there was no violent boiling up , which must have ensued had air been a nucleus .
But here was a mass of air in the midst of the liquid , and yet the steam did not expand into it .
The openings into the cage must have been very much larger than the diameter of the globules of air which are supposed always to be present when a liquid is boiling , and yet there was no separation of vapour .
This clean cage was removed , and the other cage , just as it had left the hands of the maker , was held in the steam of the water of the same tube , and the moment the lamp was removed gently lowered into the water .
It was instantly and completely covered with bubbles of steam ; but there was no expansion of s ; -arn into the cage , and no escape upwards either of steam or of air .
A good result was obtained with parafline oil boiling at 320 ? .
While the cage was being lowered , it became filled about one-half with the liquid , but when completely submerged there was no action whatever .
But , perhaps , it may be said that the liquid was now so far below the boiling-point as to be incapable of giving off vapour to any nucleus , clean or unclean .
To test this , a small pellet of paper was thrown in ; the liquid immediately 245 began to seethe audibly , and it continued to give off vapour during more than two minutes , the paper pellet resting during the latter part of the time on the top of the cage .
Similar good results were also obtained with oil of turpentine .
The cage was also lowered into naphtha , and some of the other low boiling liquids , and whenever there was an escape of vapour , it could always be referred to some unclean portion of the cage .
Care is required in lowering the cage , so as to expand the air ; for unless this be properly done , there may be a violent burst of air when the cage is near the bottom of the tube .
It really does seem to me that too much importance has been attached to the presence of air and gases in water and other liquids as a necessary condition of their boiling .
Cold water dissolves only onelfiftieth of its volume of nitrogen , and one twenty-fifth of its volume of oxygen , and these small quantities must be reduced to all almost inappreciable amount in hot or boiling water ; and yet some observers represent boiling water purged of air as reabsorbing it eagerly while still boiling .
The only function I should assign to air would be that of diminishing somewhat the cohesive force of the liquid molecules .
If the tube be of narrow bore and chemically clean , or becomes so by the action of the liquid , adhesion has some influence in raising the boiling-point .
But the mode of heating the liquid is of still greater importance in this respect , as is evident in De Luc 's experiments , and was well brought out in Bostoek 's .
In the latter case ether in a mattress over a spirit-lamp , boiled at 112 ?
; but in a test-tube in hot water at 150 ?
and even 175 ?
F. The difference in the conditions of heating has doubtless been regarded as too evident to be insisted on ; and yet it is of great importance in studying the conditions under which the boilingpoint of a liquid becomes raised .
When the vessel is placed over a flame , that part in contact with the flame is heated , or tends to become heated , much more strongly than the rest of the vessel .
This produces active convective currents , the effect of which is to loosen the cohesion of the particles , and so allow vapour to form more easily .
When the water once begins to assume the elastic form , it does so from the overheated part of the veessel in contact with the flame .
In a clean glass vessel containing distilled water placed over a spirit-lamp , no air-bubbles form , either on the sides or on the clean thermometer .
They appear on the bottom surface only , playing about and disappearing upwards until the water is at about 160 ? .
At about 180 ?
small steam-bubbles are given off from the bottom heated surface with a crackling noise ; they rise rapidly , expand , and disappear before reaching the surface ; and until they succeed in doing so , the convective currents are active .
WNhen the bubbles reach the surface and discharge steam into the air , the whole column in broken up , cohesion is overcome , and the boiling is maintained , while the liquid gradually disappears .
Such is the process of boiling in a vessel heated by a flarme from below .
When , however , all that part of the vessel ( such as a test-tube ) that contains liquid is put into a hot bath , the whole column is equably heated , or rather the top of the column is a little more heated than the bottom ( since the upper layers of hot water are at a higher temperature than the lower ones ) , and the effect of this is that there are no convective currents ; cohesion is diminished by expansion , not by convection .
The whole column being thus about equally heated at the same moment , vapour cannot form at one part in preference to another , except at the surface ; but the whole column of liquid goes on expanding under an increasing temperature until , becoming more and more supersaturated with its own vapour , the increasing elastic force suddenly overcoming pressure , cohesion , and adhesion , there is a sudden burst of vapour .
Or before this disruption takes place , if the surface be touched with a chemically unclean solid , the vapour adhering to it and thus set free , starts the vapour-giving action , just as touching a cold supersaturated saline solution starts crystallization , and the action once begun is propagated .
If , however , the tube containing the ether &amp;c. be not chemically clean , if there be minute specks and points in the glass ( as there often are ) all but invisible to the naked eye , and these be porous or not chemically clean , vapour will streamn from them long before the temperature of disruption is attained , and there will be no disruption at all .
These points and specks account for many anomalous cases of crystallization which occur in operating with supersaturated saline solutions , and which puzzled Lowel and other observers .
We may have , for example , two tubes apparently precisely alike , cleaned in the same manner , containing a hot filtered solution of the same salt , of the same strength , and exposed to the same cooling influence .
One of the solutions in cooling will suddenly become solid , while the other will remain liquid , and .
continue so during weeks and months .
On examining the solidified solution , it will be found that crystallization has been promoted by a minute speck or point at some part of the tube , no matter where , and from this point , as from a centre , proceed fine crystalline needles radiating in all directions .
Soubr6esautsz.-Liquids which render the surface of the vessel in which they are boiled or distilled chemically clean , thereby favour the production of soubresauts , or jumping ebullition .
This is a mechanical action which does not seem to have been sufficiently explained .
Thus Gay-Lusaac says , " When the liquid is above the boiling-point , it is in a forced state : instantly a burst of vapour is formed , the liquor is thrown out , and the vessel itself raised .
" But why should the vessel be raised ?
The burst of vapour follows an upward motion along the line of least resistance , which , so far from raising the vessel , has a precisely contrary effect .
It produces an equal reaction in a downward direction , tending to force the vessel further into the ring of the retort-stand , or other support , and it is the rebound from this that causes the vessel to rise .
If proof be required of the truth of this explanation , it can easily be supplied by suspending , by means of an india-rubber line or a bit of elastic , a tube containing crystals of sodic sulphate and a 247 very little water .
If the flame of a spirit-lamp be applied to the bottom of the tube , the crystals soon fuse and throw down a portion of the anhydrous salt , which is highly favourable to the production of soubresauts .
If the tube be suspended against an upright surface , with a mark opposite the mouth , it will be easily seen that every burst of steam is accompanied by a violent downward jerk .
In order to mitigate or prevent this bumping ebullition , it has long been the practice to introduce into the retort or other vessel , a few angular pieces of solid matter , metallic being the best-such as platinum-foil , silver , copper , or platinum-wire or filings , fragments of cork or torn cartridgepaper .
Faraday names these substances " promoters of vaporization , " without explaining their action ; and he remarks that if any one of these substances be suddenly introduced , it is probable that the consequent burst of vapour would be so instantaneous and strong as to do more harm than the bumping itself " * .
This is precisely the action of an unclean solid introduced into a supersaturated gaseous solution , or in the case of a liquid at or near the boiling-point , into a supersaturated vaporous solution .
When sand , fragments of glass , or other non-metallic substances are used for preventing bumping , they facilitate the escape of vapour only so long as they are unclean ; but as siliceous bodies are readily cleansed by the action of boiling water and other boiling liquids , they often aggravate the evil .
For example , two ounces of distilled water containing a little sand from the sand-bath , were boiled in a six-ounce German flask over a spirit-lamp .
The boiling proceeded briskly without any kicking .
The lamp was removed and the flask left to cool .
Next morning the lamp was again put under the flask , when the water boiled with such violent kickings as to endanger the safety of the vessel .
The sand had become chemically clean during the first boiling .
If sand , cleaned by means of sulphuric acid and much rinsing , be addedl to water in the first instance , the kickings set in at once .
Similar results were obtained with fragments of glass ; when chemically clean , they serve to enlarge the adhesion surfaces , instead of the vapour-giving surfaces , and so increase the resistance to be overcome .
With respect to the action of metals , there is no advantage in making them sharp-pointed , nor in having their surfaces rough ; only , in the latter case , unclean vapour-giving substances are apt to lodge in the rough lines , or between the teeth , and so far a file or other rough body may be of advantage .
Metal filings are also liable to collect dust and specks of dirt , which act as nuclei .
The following experiment shows the action of clean , as compared with unclean iron-filings .
A flask cleaned by means of sulphuric acid contained four ounces of distilled water , which boiled at 215 ? .
Some iron-filings that had long been kept in spirits of wine were thrown in .
There was a good deal of kicking , and the temperature oscillated between 213 2oand 213f- ?
- ? .
Some unclean filings were thrown in , and the effect C Chemical Manipulation , p. 200 .
was instantaneous .
Copious streams of bubbles proceeded from the filings , the soubresauts ceased , and the temperature fell to 211 .
Similar results were obtained with copper-filings , and copper and brass wire , clean and unclean , and also with platinum foil and wire .
An experiment with mercury may perhaps be of interest .
The metal was cleaned by being repeatedly shaken up with dilute nitric acid ; and after standing some time under it , a portion was drawn off from the bottom .
Five ounces of water in a clean flask boiled at 2131 7 Enough mercury was poured in to form a ring at the bottom of the flask .
The water soon regained its temperature , and even rose to 214 ?
, with a good deal of bumping-steam forming under the mercury and distending it into a large hemisphere , which burst with a kick .
The temperature varied between 213f ?
and 214 ? .
It would have been dangerous to have entirely covered the bottom with the metal ; for , as it was , the bursts of vapour were of an explosive character .
While this uneasy boiling was going on , a very little dirty mercury was added to the flask , and , although the quantity was not more than one-sixth of that previously added , the effect was remarkable .
Instead of the uneasy , kicking , jerking bursts , the whole instantly changed into a brisk , easy , soft boiling , rapid volleys of steam-balls being given off by the metal , breaking up the mass of water , while the temperature remained steady at 212-2o ? .
It will thus be seen that the vitreous and metallic bodies employed in these experiments , as also the bits of paper , shavings of cedar-wood , &amp;c. , are efficient as nuclei only so long as they are chemically unclean .
When clean they become inactive as " promoters of vaporization .
" Action of Porous Bodies.-But there are certain bodies , such as charcoal , coke , &amp;c. , that I have not been able to make inactive , either by the action of strong sulphuric or nitric acid , or by repeated boiling in water , ether , spirits of wine , naphtha , &amp;c. The same piece of charcoal held in the flame of a spirit-lamp and then put into soda-water , or into a liquid at or near the boiling-point , will liberate gas or vapour without any apparent diminution of its powers .
It may be transferred from one liquid to another , from ether to alcohol , from alcohol to water , and from water to oil of turpentine without ceasing to perform useful work in setting vapour free , making the ooiling soft and easy , and preventing soubresauts* .
The same remark applies to coke .
It may be cleaned in the strongest acids , washed in water and alkalies without losing any of its vigour as a liberator of vapour from a hot liquid .
It is quite remarkable to see how efficiently a lump of coke acts in a vessel of boiling water in giving off vapour , promoting tranquil boiling , and preventing the jumping of the vessel .
Platinum sponge is also active .
A small piece of this substance at the bottom of a flask of boiling water will send up vigorous jets of steam-bubbles , raising the water far above the surface .
As in the case of charcoal and coke , the liberation of vapour is confined to the solid nucleus , no part of the flask giving off visible vapour .
The following data show the influence of the solid upon the temperature .
Five ounces of distilled water in a clean flask boiled at 213-3 ? .
A small lump of platinum sponge was held in the flame of a spirit-lamp and then put into the flask .
The temperature subsided to 212-4 ?
0 , and remained so for some time .
A second small piece of sponge was similarly heated and put into the flask ; it was as active as the former piece in liberating vapour , but there was no further depression of temperature .
The water was now allowed to get cold ; and on again applying the spirit-lamp there was a good deal of loud explosive bumping , until the water was near 2000 , when the platinum sponge began to give off steam and the boiling became soft and regular .
I have not the command of apparatus for determining the volume of vapour absorbed by platinum sponge , charcoal , &amp;c. at given temperatures ; but it would not be difficult to do so by one or other of the contrivances made by Dalton and Gay-Lussac in determining the elasticity of the vapours of liquids at the boiling-point .
It would also be interesting to study the action of nuclei on liquids heated above the pressure of one atmosphere .
Meerschaum is also an active nucleus .
A bit of this substance was thrown into a tube filled about one-third with newly distilled oil of turpentine which boiled at about 310 ? .
The whole tube became filled with bubbles ; and long after the lamp was removed the nucleus continued to liberate numerous streams of bubbles , an effect that is common to all porous bodies tried in these experiments , but more remarkable in some cases than others * .
A fine-grained pumice-stone cleaned in nitric acid , and another piece not cleaned , were both very active in giving off vapour from liquids .
As in the case of charcoal and meerschaum , they soon sank to the bottom of the vessel , unless buoyed up by the steam while the lamp was burning under the flask , and continued to pour off vapour so long as the liquid was at or near the boiling-point .
When the water was below 100 ?
, the flask was put under the receiver of an air-pump and the air exhausted ; the water soon boiled , and the pumice was as active as before in liberating vapour .
Chalk , plumbago , and platinum balls are all active promoters of vaporization .
In the absorption of gases by charcoal , Saussure found that , if a piece of charcoal impregnated with one gas were introduced into another gas , a por* Illustrations were frequently afforded in these experiments of the different action of a clean as compared with an unclean surface .
In the experiment in hand , in order to take the temperature of the boiling turpentine , the thermometer-bulb and part of the stem were made chemically clean ; but having on one occasion to leave the thermometer in the tube , its bulb was made to rest on the bottom , so that about an inch and a half of the stem that had not been made chemically clean became immersed .
This portion was instantly covered with minute beads of vapour , so as to give it a frosted appearance , exactly distinguishing the clean from the unclean portion .
250 tion of the absorbed gas might either be driven out or further condensed .
A somewhat similar action may be noticed by transferring a piece of charcoal from one boiling liquid to another .
For example , a small piece of wellburnt charcoal from the centre of a lump was held in the flame of a spiritlamp until it was red-hot , and so put into boiling water .
It was not very active at first , but it soon became so , and continued so as long as the heat was kept up .
After about half an hour 's action the charcoal was taken out , dried in a cloth , and put into boiling turpentine ; here it was amazingly active , and continued so during some minutes after the lamp had been removed .
The charcoal was dried on filtering-paper and put into spirits of wine ; it was now much less active than fresh charcoal would have been ; and in ether its activity was still more diminished .
The charcoal was next put into hot water , and it at once started into activity ; it was far more vigorous than clean charcoal is in water under any of the circumstances that have come under my notice .
The charcoal was doubly active , not only from its porosity , but also from its want of chemical purity .
On this latter account charcoal that has been used in boiling turpentine is singularly active in boiling water .
And this sufficiently accounts for the fact noticed by Dufour , that when globules of water in hot oil came into contact with the thermometer or the sides of the vessel , they at once exploded into steam ; but I believe the globules of water were in the spheroidal state in all the cases of very high temperature cited by him .
The diminished activity of charcoal and other porous bodies depends on the order in which they are introduced into liquids of different boilingpoints .
If transferred from a liquid with a high into one with a low boiling-point , the charcoal is more or less inactive , its absorptive powers being already satisfied ; but if transferred from a liquid with a low into one with a high boiling-point its activity is increased , not only by the expulsion of the liquid absorbed , but also by the want of chemical purity that accompanies the process .
Thus meerschaum or coke that is very active in turpentine becomes inactive when transferred to spirits of wine ; but after a time a single point in the solid may become active , and produce a rapidly rising inverted cone of vapour that has a very striking effect .
Oonclusions.--The conclusions to which the foregoing details seem to lead are : ( 1 ) That a liquid at or near the boiling-point is a supersaturated solution of its own vapour .
( 2 ) That a solid non-porous nucleus either is or is not efficient in liberating vapour , according as it is chemically unclean or clean .
( 3 ) That as porous bodies do not become inactive , the proper nucleus for liberating vapour in the operations of boiling and distilling liquids , and for preventing soubresauts , is charcoal , coke , or some other porous body .
P.S. ( Jan. 21 , 1869).-As it seemed probable that some numerical results as to the action of porous nuclei in increasing the amount of the T2 251 distillate might be expected , I asked my friend Mr. Hatcher , late of King 's College , to perform some experiments for me .
The following are selected from his results .
1 .
A glass flask with a wide neck was filled about one-third with distilled water ; it was boiled over a gas-burner , rapidly weighed , and replaced over the burner .
After boiling twenty minutes , it was weighed again .
The flask was once more filled to the original quantity , and some bits of coke were added ; it was boiled and weighed as before , the gas-flame remaining unaltered all the time .
Results.--Water boiled away in the first trial ( water only ) 995 grains , in the second trial ( with coke ) 1130 grains .
Ratio of products , as 100 : 113'6 .
2 .
Water was made to distil freely from a still , and the quantity collected in fifteen minutes was weighed .
A few pieces of coke were then aided to the water in the still , and the distillate collected again during fifteen minutes .
Results.-Distillate from water only , 293 grains ; from water with coke , 310 grains .
Ratio of products , as 100 : 1058 .
3 .
A similar trial was made with common wood-charcoal ; but the vessel having been made much cleaner by the action of the first boiling , the water boiled irregularly , with bumping .
The addition of the charcoal made the boiling tranquil and regular .
Results.-Distillate from water only , 262 grains ; from water with charcoal , 334 grains .
Ratio of results , as 100 : 1274 .

