IV .
" Observations on the Human Voice .
" By MANUEL GARCIA , Esq. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received March 22 , 1855 .
The pages which follow are intended to describe some observations made on the interior of the larynx during the act of singing .
The method which I have adopted is very simple .
It consists in placing a little mirror , fixed on a long handle suitably bent , in the throat of the person experimented on against the soft palate and uvula .
The party ought to turn himself towards the sun , so that the luminous rays falling on the little mirror , may be reflected on the larynx .
If the observer experiment on himself , he ought , by means of a second mirror , to receive the rays of the sun , and direct them on the mirror , which is placed against the uvula .
We shall now add our own deductions from the observations which the image reflected by the mirror has afforded us .
Opening of the Glottis .
At the moment when the person draws a deep breath , the epiglottis being raised , we are able to see the following series of movements : the arytenoid cartilages become separated by a very free lateral movement ; the superior ligaments are placed against the ventricles ; the inferior ligaments are also drawn back , though in a less degree , into the same cavities ; and the glottis , large and wide open , is exhibited so as to show in part the rings of the trachea .
But unfortunately , however dexterous we may be in disposing these organs , and even when we are most successful , at least the third part of the anterior of the glottis remains concealed by the epiglottis .
Movement of the Glottis .
As soon as we prepare to produce a sound , the arytenoid cartilages approach each other , and press together by their interior surfaces , and by the anterior apophyses , without leaving any space , or intercartilaginous glottis ; sometimes even they come in contact so closely as to cross each other by the tubercles of Santorini .
To this movement of the anterior apophyses , that of the ligaments of the glottis corresponds , which detach themselves from the ventricles , come in contact with different degrees of energy , and show themselves at the bottom of the larynx under the form of an ellipse of a yellowish colour .
The superior ligaments , together with the aryteno-epiglottidean folds , assist to form the tube which surmounts the glottis ; and being the lower and free extremity of that tube , enframe the ellipse , the surface of which they enlarge or diminish according as they enter more or less into the ventricles .
These last scarcely retain a trace of their opening .
By anticipation , we might say of these cavities , that , as will afterwards appear clearly enough in these pages , they only afford to the two pair of ligaments a space in which they may easily range themselves .
When the aryteno-epiglottidean folds contract , they lower the epiglottis , and make the superior orifice of the larynx considerably narrower .
The meeting of the lips of the glottis , naturally proceeding from the front towards the back , if this movement is well managed , it will allow , between the apophyses , of the formation of a triangular space , or inter-cartilaginous glottis , but one which , however , is closed as soon as the sounds are produced .
After some essays , we perceive that this internal disposition of the larynx is only visible when the epiglottis remains raised .
But neither all the registers of the voice , nor all the degrees of intensity , are equally fitted for its taking this position .
We soon discover that the brilliant and powerful sounds of the chest-register contract the cavity of the larynx , and close still more its orifice ; and , on the contrary , that veiled notes , and notes of moderate power , open both so as to render any observation easy .
The falsetto register especially possesses this prerogative , as well as the first notes of the headvoice* .
So as to render these facts more precise , we will study in the voice of the tenor the ascending progression of the chestregister , and in the soprano that of the falsetto and head-registers .
Emission of the Chest-voice .
If we emit veiled and feeble sounds , the larynx opens at the notes do , re , mi,.ti _ .
222 and we see the glottis agitated by large and loose vibrations throughout its entire extent .
Its lips comprehend in their length the anterior apophyses of the arytenoid cartilages and the vocal cords ; but , I repeat it , there remains no triangular space .
As the sounds ascend , the apophyses , which are slightly rounded on their internal side , by a gradual apposition commencing at the back , encroach on the length of the glottis ; and as soon as we reach the sounds si , do , " --i , they finish by touching each 33 __ other throughout their whole extent ; but their summits are only solidly fixed one against the other at the notes do : , r6,._fi rz .
33 In some organs these summits are a little vacillating when they form the posterior end of the glottis , and the two or three half-tones which are formed show a certain want of purity and strength , which is very well known to singers .
From the dog , r6 , t_ e : the vibrations , having become rounder and purer , are accomplished by the vocal ligaments alone , up to the end of the register .
The glottis at this moment presents the aspect of a line slightly swelled towards its middle , the length of which diminishes still more as the voice ascends .
We also see that the cavity of the larynx has become very small , and that the superior ligaments have contracted the extent of the ellipse to less than one-half .
When instead of veiled and feeble sounds , we make use of full and vibrating ones , the glottis becomes visible only at the sounds mi , fa , ]---and those above them , a limit which depends 33 to a certain extent on the dexterity of the singer .
For all the rest , the organs act as we have just said , but with a double difference : 1 .
The cavity of the larynx contracts itself more when the voice is intense , than when it is feeble .
2 .
The superior ligaments are contracted so as to reduce the small diameter of the ellipse to a width of two or three lines .
But however powerful these contractions may be , neither the cartilages of Wrisberg , nor the superior ligaments themselves , ever close sufficiently to prevent the passage of the air , or even to render it difficult .
This fact , which is verified also with regard to the falsetto and head-registers , suffices to prove that the superior ligaments do not fill a generative part in the formation of the voice .
We may draw the same conclusion by considering the position occupied by the somewhat feeble muscles which correspond to these ligaments ; they cover externally the extremity of the diverging fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscles , and take part especially in the contractions of the cavity of the larynx during the formation of the high notes of the chestand of the headregisters .
Production of the Falsetto .
The low notes of the falsetto , S_-_--sol , lapb , lat , t222 show the glottis infinitely better than the unisons of the chest-voice and produce vibrations more extended and more distinct .
Its vibrating sides , formed by the anterior apophyses of the arytenoid cartilages , and by the ligaments , become gradually shorter as the voice ascends ; at the notes la , si , =r- , the apophyses take 33 part only at their summits ; and in these notes there results a weakness similar to that which we have remarked in the chest-notes an octave below .
At the notes do : , re , i ___ , the ligaments 44 alone continue to act ; then begins the series of notes called headvoice .
The moment in which the action of the apophyses ceases , exhibits in the female voice a very sensible difference at once to the ear and in the organ itself .
Lastly , we verify , that , up to the highest sounds of the register , the glottis continues to diminish in length and in width .
If we compare the two registers in these movements , we shall find some analogies in them : the sides of the glottis , formed at first by the apophyses and the ligaments , become shorter by degrees , and end by consisting only of the ligaments .
The chest-register is divided into two parts , corresponding to these two states of the glottis .
The register of falsetto-head presents a complete similarity , and in a still more striking manner .
On other points , on the contrary , these same registers are very unlike .
The length of the glottis necessary to form a falsetto note , always exceeds that which produces the unison of the chest .
The movements which agitate the sides of the glottis are also augmented , and keep the vibrating orifice continually half opened , which naturally produces a great waste of air .
A last trait of difference , is in the increased extent of that elliptic surface .
All these circumstances , which we shall refer to again , show in the mechanism of the falsetto , a state of relaxation , which we do not find in the same degree in the chest-register .
Manner in which the sounds are formed .
As we have just said , and what we have seen proves it , the in .
ferior ligaments , at the bottom of the larynx , form exclusively the voice , whatever may be its register or its intensity ; for they alone vibrate at the bottom of the larynx* .
But by virtue of what principle is the voice formed ?
It seems to me , that the answer to this question can be but this ; the voice is formed in one unique manner , by the compressions and expansions of the air , or the successive and regular explosions which it produces in passing through the glottis .
The ligaments of the glottis are situate about the mean level of the upper border of the cricoid , close the passage , and present a resistance to the air .
As soon as the air has accumulated sufficiently , it parts these folds and produces an explosion .
But at the same instant , by virtue of their elasticity , and the pressure from below being relieved , they meet again to give rise to a fresh explosion .
A series of these compressions and expansions , or of explosions , occasioned by the expansive force of the air and the reaction of the glottis , produces the voice .
This theory , though now generally admitted for reeds , and undoubtedly evident in the liquid vein , the toothed-wheel of Savart , the syrene of the Baron Cagnard Latour &amp;c. , has not to my knowledge , been yet applied to the glottis f. If we consider that the lips of this aperture , taken separately , can give no kind of sound , however we may try to make them speak , we must admit that the sounds which they give forth by their mutual action , are only owing to the explosions of the air produced by their strokes .
It is not necessary in order to obtain the explosion of sound , that the glottis should be perfectly closed each time after its opening ; it suffices that it should oppose an obstacle to the air capable of developing its elasticity .
In this case the rushing of the air is heard accompanying the sounds , and they take a veiled , and sometimes an extremely muffled character ; an observation which we have already presented to the reader 's notice in speaking of the falsetto .
Conjectures on the Formation of the different Registers .
As the entire system of vibrations arises solely from the inferior ligaments , it is evident that the cause of the different tones called registers , must be sought for in the muscles which set these ligaments in motion ; and that the other parts of the larynx must be considered only as apparatus for strengthening the sounds obtained , and for modifying their quality .
In our efforts to discover the more intimate processes of the vocal organs which produce the sounds , we shall recur at once to the observations already mentioned , to some anatomical remarks which we are going to make , and to the sensations which we feel in the organ itself whilst it is producing sounds .
If we detach one of the halves of the thyroid cartilage , we shall see a large muscular surface of oblique fibres , which fills all the space between the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages .
At its upper end is to be seen the muscle corresponding to the superior vocal ligaments , and which sometimes extends to the notch in the thyroid .
After detaching this generally frail muscle , all the fibres constituting this muscular surface seem to start from two opposite centres , viz. the anterior surface of the arytenoid , and the re-entering angle of the thyroid .
These centres , occupying the extremities of a diagonal line , send their fibres towards each other in parallel lines .
Those which start from the anterior face of the arytenoid descend obliquely ; the most external ones go to the cricoid , whose posterior half they cover at the side ; the most internal ones descend to the vocal membrane* , which they cover entirely .
The fibres which terminate at the membrane become longer , as they become more internal .
Those which start from the re-entering angle of the thyroid , reascend obliquely to the summit of the arytenoid , then diverge in order to form the sides of the ventricles , and then disappear in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds and even the under surface of the epiglottis .
If we cut it away in successive layers , pro* We thus designate that part of the membrane which goes from the bottom of the vocal ligament , to the edge of the cricoid .
ceedingfrom the outside to the in , we reach a thick bundle of fibres , perfectly horizontal , which line the outer aspect of the vocal ligament , and which go from the anterior apophyses of the arytenoid to the re-entering angle of the thyroid* .
This bundle has its posterior half covered by the lateral cricoarytenoid muscle , and its anterior half by the diverging fibres which start from the thyroid .
If we cut away the horizontal bundle in successive layers , we see that the fibres are not all of the same length ; the most external fibres are the longest , and the succeeding ones get gradually shorter as they become more internal ; but they all originate in the anterior cavity of the arytenoid , and the muscle is inserted in the manner above explained throughout the whole length of the vocal ligaments , the thyro-arytenoid portion of it excepted .
As the fibres all begin from the arytenoid , and terminate successively at more distant points of the membrane , we see that the muscle is thicker behind than before .
Thus the vocal ligament , and the membrane which depends from it , the sole sources of all vocal sounds , are under the direct action of the fibres which come from the anterior cavity of the arytenoid ; the ligament under the action of the horizontal bundle , the membrane under that of the oblique fibres .
The long horizontal fibres , extending from one cartilage to the other , are placed at the exterior of the short horizontal fibres , and at the interior of the oblique fibres .
The diverging fibres which start from the thyroid , acting only on the superior vocal ligaments and the folds , seem to influence by their contractions only the quality and volume of the voice .
The remarkable arrangement of the fibres which we have just examined , enables us to explain a fundamental fact , the elevation of the voice .
The fibres of the horizontal bundle being placed over each other , in layers , one covering the other , and getting gradually longer and longer , as they become more external , extend their action to the more anterior parts of the edges of the glottis .
This progressive action from the back to the front , encroaches gradually on the length of the vibrating portion of the ligament , and likewise increases its tension , and its faculty of accelerating its pulsations .
Another portion of the thyro-arytenoid muscle at the same time stretches and raises the vocal membrane more and more , causing a lesser depth of the ligaments to be in contact , in proportion as the sounds become higher , and thus assists by increasing the mobility of the ligaments .
We shall see in a few moments that the rotatory movement , which the external fibres of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles give to the arytenoid , by making the vocal membrane deeper , partly counteracts the above effect , and produces the chest-register .
The crico-thyroid muscle , on the contrary , is a powerful auxiliary in the elevation of the voice .
This muscle , which at the same time causes the thyroid to come forwards and downwards , gives rise to a mechanical tension , not only in the vocal ligament , but even in the whole vocal membrane .
The meeting of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages , which we can feel by the touch , becomes especially marked when the inter-ligamentous glottis alone produces the sounds , which takes place as we have seen at the notes doZ , re , I=_ = in the chest-register , and an octave above for that of the head ; with this difference , however , that for the latter a more vigorous and complete connexion is necessary .
Let us now see what we may learn from the sensations we feel in the vocal organ .
When we produce a chest-note , the least attention enables us to distinguish a " pinching " at the posterior part of the glottis , which becomes more vigorous as the notes ascend .
This pinching seems to be formed by extension of the depth of the touching surfaces , and may become very painful ; whilst the notes of falsetto , when higher than chest ones , give comparatively great relief to this part , and the surfaces in contact seem to have become thinner .
If we combine these sensations with the different remarks which have been furnished to us by the examination of the muscles , we can fix the particular mechanism of each register .
Chest Register .
In fact , when the arytenoid muscles have brought in contact the arytenoid cartilages , and closed the glottis , the voice may take two very different characters ; nay , more , it will be produced in pitches widely apart from one another , and will give forth the chest , or falsetto registers , according as the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid attached to the vocal membrane are active or not .
By the action of these fibres , as we have seen , this muscle raises the vocal membrane , and makes its apposable part thinner ; whereas the lateral crico-arytenoid gives a rotatory movement to the cartilage , which brings the apophyses into deep contact .
This deep contact , which continues even after the apophyses no longer partake in the vibrations , gives a deep tension to the membranes , increases the depth of their contact* , and , as a necessary consequence , augments the resistance they present to the air .
It is to the extent of this resistance that we attribute the formation of the chest-register , so distinct by its particular amplitude .
To it we attribute also the slowness of the beats of the glottis , and the consequent low pitch of the sounds , a pitch which , even in the highest tenor voices , is at least an octave lower than the head notes of ordinary soprani .
Register of Falsetto .
When , on the contrary , the external fibres of the lateral cricoarytenoid muscle remain inactive , we produce the falsetto .
The lips of the glottis , stretched by the horizontal bundle of the thyroarytenoid , come in contact by their edge alone , formed at once by the ligament and the apophyses , and offer little resistance to the air .
Hence arises the great loss of this agent , and the general weakness of the sounds produced here .
But as soon as we reach the sound do , the beats are produced by 4 the ligaments exclusively , and we have attained the head-register .
It is certain , as we may deduce from the movement of the ligaments , that then the vocal membrane is raised by the action of the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle , and its surface is diminished to an edge ; but we think that the external fibres of the lateral crico-arytenoid , which would prevent this movement , remain inactive .
Then also the very decided tension , which the crico-thyroid muscle effects on the vocal tendons , and which accelerates their movements , takes place .
During the chest-register , therefore , the vocal ligaments are stretched , and are in contact to an extent corresponding with the depth of the anterior apophyses of the arytenoid , whilst in the falsetto the edges alone of the ligaments are stretched and apposed ; in both cases the sounds being formed , not by the actual vibrations of either the whole or part of the tendons , but by the successive explosions which they allow .
Pressure of the Air .
Until now , in our remarks on the manner in which the voice is formed , we have only referred to the rigidity of the glottis , a rigidity necessary to accomplish the 1056 vibrations in one second* , which form the do of the chest-voice , and to accomplish the double number 4 which produces the octave above in the head-voice .
There is , notwithstanding , another indispensable element for the production of vocal sounds , the pressure of the air .
Pressure , as is well known , developes an elastic force in this agent , in a degree inverse to the volume which it occupies .
It is by means of this power that the intensity of the sounds is obtained .
The intensity of the sound can only depend on the quantity of air which goes to each sharp explosion .
I say sharp explosion , as an express condition : the glottis should close itself perfectly after every vibration ; for if the air found a constant passage , as in the notes of falsetto , then the greatest movements of the glottis , and the greatest waste of air , would produce precisely the weakest notes .
To reject this theory would be to attribute the intensity of the sound to the extent of the vibrations accomplished by the lips of the glottis , and to suppose that these lips , each taken separately , possess the power of producing sounds , suppositions quite contrary to the facts .
The elastic force of the air arises not only from the compression of the lungs , but also from the contractions of the trachea , which adjusts its calibre to the different dimensions of the glottis .
It is by means of this force that the air conquers the continually-increasing obstacle presented by the lips of the glottis when they produce sounds more and more intense .
Thus the problem of the elevation of the voice , always complicated with that of its intensity , in order to be complete , ought to show the connexion which exists between the tension of the lips of the glottis , the pressure of the air , and the number and intensity of the explosions obtained .
As a consequence , we may state that the greater pressure of air necessary to produce the greater intensity , would at the same time increase the number of pulsations , and so raise the tone ; but to prevent this , the glottis must at the same time be lengthened , and vice versa ; or , in other words , that the different lengths of the glottis can , under different degrees of pressure , produce the same number of shocks , but at different degrees of intensity .
Of the Qualities of the Voice .
Various simultaneous causes modify the qualities of the voice:1 , according as the glottis partially or entirely closes the passage between the explosions , it produces veiled or brilliant sounds ; 2 , the tube which surmounts and surrounds it also greatly affects the quality of the voice ; by its contractions it gives brilliancy to it and its widening volume ; 3 , the epiglottis also plays a very important part , for every time that it lowers itself , and nearly closes the orifice of the larynx , the voice gains in brilliancy ; and when , on the other hand , it is drawn up , the voice immediately becomes veiled .

