]\gt ; 1884 .
] Theory of Calculating Maclnnes , wkich may be neglected ; and we have\mdash ; sbows that at a distance of 4 centims. from either end , the temperature is less than in the middle by , that is of the middle temperature ; at 8 centims. it is less by ; and at 12 centims. it is less by 1/ 20 .
Thus we see that the cooling by the ends is very sensible through a quarter of the length from either ; and must be allowed for by aid of ( 7 ) , unless lengths of considerably more than half a metre are taken .
But we also see that the results stated in this preliminary paper are not sensibly affected , or hardly sensibly affected , by cooling from the ends .
XVII .
' The Theory of Continuous ating Machines , and of a Mechanism on a New Principle for this and other purposes By H. S. HEAL SHAW .
Communicated by Sir WILLIAM THOMSON .
Beceived June 19 , 1884 .
( Absbract .
) The paper commences with a statement of the conditions which must be fulfilled by the mechanism of a )ntinuous calculating machine of the most general kind .
It is shown that both the operations of differentiation and integration must be performed by such an instrument .
The only hitherto known mechanisms with which it appears possible to accomplish this are the " " disk and roller and its modification the disk-globe and cylinder-integrator , or with some device which relies on the principIe of action .
A brief account is given of the applications of the disk and roller itself , which mechanism was first gested by Poncelet , for integrating the of the two variables in a traction ergometer , and has since been applied by various inventors\mdash ; the disk being sometimes replaced by a cone , as a planimeber or platometer and integrator .
The applications for the converse process of differentiation are less known , and do not appear to have been brought into successful operation .
A speed indicator , in which a screw replaced the usual axis of the roller , the roller forming the nut , was made three years ago by the author .
In this case the screw was driven at speed which varied with the space passed over by the moving body , and the disk at a speed by a clock .
The position of the roller on the disk was The author afterwards found that this idea had been suggested somo time previously by a correspondent in " " Engineering Quite recently ( May 24th ) a speed indicator on this principle , but with a instead of a disk , was exhibited before the Physical Society , and at the same meeting the Secretary himself showed the disk and roller speed indicator which he had -invented .
The disk and roller has , however , two kinds of defects , which account for its practicai failurs for the foregoing purpose , and render its accuracy as an almost a matter of iInpossibility ; though in the ]atter case the error for reasons which are explained is more difficult to detect .
These kinds of are:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Those which are the mechanical result of the principle of action itself ; ( 2 .
) The limited range of action of the instrument .
( 1 .
) The very conditions under which the mecbanism acts are contradictory , and are shown to three special defects:\mdash ; Grinding action between the edge of the roller and face of the disk .
Necessity for the application of force , in order to change the position of the roller .
( ui .
Error in Dumerical resuIts .
These defects are considered , and a modifioatiou of the disk-globe and cylinder-indicator of Professor James Thomson , which was de signed to obviate them , is suggested for the converse process .
The second kind of defect led the author to modify the disk and roller , so that a range of ion , in theory ] great , woe obtained .
This is not so easy to use , the graduation of the scalc having to be made according to an equation , instead 01 simply , as in the first form ; but it was new , and led to the fact being made clear that there was a close analogy between these two forms and two forms of what may be called the " " sphere an6 roller mechanism which with certain results were communicated to the Physical Section of the Bristol Naturalists ' Society in Novembet last .
It was the endeavour to overcome the frictional defects of the disb and roller still remain in this form of mechanism , and to rendel the application of the sphere and roller possible for practical poses , that led to the investigation which forms the real subject of the paper .
The Index of Refraction of Gases .
The result has been a mechanism which consists of two distinct features : \mdash ; 1 .
) A mechanical principle , by which an rangement of spheres rollers is made capable of transmitting motion , which can be independently varied in any required manner .
( 2 .
) The arrangement by which mathematical results can be at : one ' , obtained with any required numerical quantities , however ] arge .
The rest of the paper consists in a discussion of these principles , and of the practical applications which , beside enabling the operations already mentioned to be performed , enable logarithms and roots } ) calculated , besides giving a convenient computator for reducing tables of results .
The almost entire absence of friction enables a chain of spheres and rollers to be employed in a very compact form and with accurate result .
Thus , with two sets , the moment of an area , the integration of volumes , \amp ; c. , can be obtained ; with three , the moment of inertia , and other resuIts .
In fact , the operation . . . .
can be performed with sets of the fundamental form of mechanism .
By using the screw arrangement , the value of a ratio or differential coefficient can be obtained ; and , by using two sets , the secoud dif .
ferential coefficient , or acceleration , or rate of change of velocity , is given .
By using the integrating and if differentiating mechanism in unction , rate of , or H. P. can be indicated on a dial .
Various practical applications , such as a planimeter , a sliding rule for giving at once , and I , a H. P. indicator are shown .
Finally , IJ the application of the mechanism to the transmission of power is considered , as well as the mechanics of problem , and a modification of an important nature for the roller bearings is described and illustrated . .
XVIII .
" " On the Experimental Determination of the Index of Refraction of Liquefied Gases By Dr. L. BLEEKRODE .
Communicated by Dr. GLADSTONE , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1884 .
[ Publication deferred .
] The adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 20th .

