376 Dr. W. Hunter .
Influence of [ Mar. 19 j debted to Professor Japp , F.R.S. ) The formula is there given as C6H3(OH ) ( S03H)C00H ; and its formation by the action of sulphuric anhydride on salicylic acid ( Mendius , ' Ann. Chem. Pharm , ' vol. 103 p. 45 ) , or by heating salicylic acid with concentrated sulphuric acid ( Remsen , ibid. , vol. 179 , p. 107 ) .
It is said to be very stable , and to undergo no change on heating with nitric acid .
The specimens of salicyl-sulphonic acid which I have used in my experiments were obtained from Messrs. Davidson and Kay , Union Street , Aberdeen .
III .
" The Influence of Oxygen on the Formation of Ptomaines .
" By William Hunter , M.D. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received March 11,1891 .
( Abstract .
) A special interest attaches to the role of oxygen in the life-history of bacteria .
Very wide differences exist , however , between different groups in respect of its importance .
To the great majority a free supply of oxygen is absolutely essential for their proper growth and development ; to a small minority the converse applies , growth proceeding best in the absence of oxygen , if indeed it is not entirely prevented by its presence ; while , lastly , in the case of an intermediate group it seems almost immaterial whether oxygen be present or not , growth proceeding apparently equally well in both conditions , provided that the supply of food be otherwise suitable .
Of these three groups of " obligate aerobic , " " obligate anaerobic " and " facultative aerobic " bacteria , respectively , the last has perhaps the greatest interest for the pathologist , as it is to it that the great majority of pathogenic organisms belong .
The question is thus an interesting one , to what extent the pathogenic properties of this class of bacteria are related to the power they , apparently under necessity , possess of obtaining their supply of oxyS\gt ; en from the food constituents themselves when the supply in the air is cut off .
The present paper deals with the results of an investigation undertaken in this relation .
It was necessary that the class of bacteria selected for study should be one whose pathogenic properties were not constant , but subject to variations presumably connected with the character of their surroundings .
The bacteria of ordinary putrefaction possess in a special degree this qualification , their chemical products differing much in character and poisonous action under different , for the most part as yet uu-known , conditions . !
1891 .
] Oxygen on the Formation of Ptomaines .
The method chosen by which to gauge the influence of oxygen on !
the pathogenic properties of bacteria was to estimate the quantity of | alkaloidal bodies or " ptomaines " formed in the putrefactive process , | according as oxygen ( 1 ) was freely admitted j ( 2 ) was present in !
moderate quantity ; or ( 3 ) was withheld altogether .
For our knowledge of the ptomaines of putrefaction we are chiefly indebted to the researches of Brieger .
In their order of formation as well as complexity , the most commonly met are choline , C5H15N02 ; cadaverine , 05HuN2 ; putrescine , C4H12N2 ; trimethylamine , ( CH3)3N .
dimethylamine , ( CH3)2NH ; and methylamine , ( OH3)NH2 .
The ptomaines most characteristic of the early stages of putrefaction are the diamines , which include , in addition to cadaverine ( pentamethylenediamine ) and putrescine ( tetramethylenediamine ) , other two isomeric with the former , but of different , as yet unknown , constitution\#151 ; neuridine ( C5HUN2 ) and ( C6H14N8 ) .
With the exception of choline , all these bodies are non-poisonous ; and choline only produces symptoms when given in very large doses .
In this respect they differ from another group which possess markedly toxic properties , e.g. , muscarine ( C5H15N03 ) , an oxidised derivative of choline , and neurine ( C6H13NO ) , also obtainable from choHne artificially by warming with baryta water ; as also two other bodies to which Brieger gave the name of mydatoxine ( C6H13N02 ) and mydine , C8HuNO .
hile the poisonous bases are oxidised , the harmless bases are non-oxidised , a circumstance which led Brieger to conclude that IlMt\#174 ; P%8 an important part in the formation of poisonous oids , and that a free access of oxygen favours the formation of Ptomaines generally* The observations now recorded supply data for judging how far these conclusions are correct .
r chief result is to show that the formation of the ordinary putre-is favoured by the entire absence of oxygen ; the i jormed under such circumstances being several times qreater U When oxygen is admitted .
The Method of Research .
Briegg1*16 p0\lt ; ^ eraPloyed for the isolation of the ptomaines was that of lean meat fluantities of extract of meat , obtained by extracting rangjn f with cold water , were allowed to putrefy , for periods rorn ^ to 8 days , under the three following conditions :\#151 ; cylinder ^ \#174 ; upplyof Oxygen.\#151 ; The fluid was placed in a large glass herizontai0^6-1 a^ ' ^oth ends , kept in continuous rotation round a axis .
The direction of rotation was alternately from right " Weifc Untersuchungen Tiber Ptomaine .
" Hirschwald .
Berlin , 1885 , p. 27 .
2 c 2 378 Dr. W. Hunter .
Influence of [ Mar. to left and left to right ; the fluid was thus kept in continual agitation , and uniformly distributed over the inner surface of the CJ ( 2^^Moderate Supply of Oxygen.\#151 ; The fluid was placed in a wide-mouthed jar , and stirred freely from time to time .
( 3 ) Exclusion of Oxygen.\#151 ; The fluid was placed m a narrow-necked bottle which it nearly filled ; excess of oxygen at the outset was driven out by a stream of hydrogen ; the bottle was then tightly-closed by an india-rubber stopper through which passed a glass tube suitably bent and opening externally under mercury .
In ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , the vessels were maintained at a uniform temperature of 32 ' by being suspended in a water tank .
In most of the experiments , a certain quantity of extract of pancreas was added , to hasten putrefaction , -with 10 grams of CaC03 to prevent the injurious action of the acids formed in the early stages of the process .
The conditions of the experiments varied somewhat in other respects , either as regards the quantities of material used , or its nature , or the manuer of dealing with it .
The experiments made , eight in number , thus divide themselves into three series , each made up of two or three different observations under the conditions above noted .
_ .
, , The attempts made in the earlier experiments to isolate the individual ptomaines in the form of their platinum or gold salts failed , owing to the small quantities present .
Attention was afterwards confined to the diamines , and accurate quantitative results were obtained by use of benzoyl chlonde\#151 ; a reagent which , as Udranzky and Baumann have shown , forms bulky and stable derivatives with all bodies of this nature .
Results .
The results of the observations show :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That a free supply of oxygen prevents entirely the forma 10^ of ptomaines , the only base found under such circumstances that too from the very first\#151 ; being ammonia .
( 2 .
) With one exception , all the experiments agree in showing that , as judged by the relative quantities of diamines forme \gt ; greatest formation of ptomaines takes place when oxygen is en 1 excluded . .
^ The differences between moderate supply of oxygen absence in this respect ranged from 2:1 to as much as ^ observations made , the greatest formation always taking P^aC0 oxygen was excluded .
The one exception to this can be explained by a difference^^ procedure , the effect of which was probably to destroy a laige n 1891 .
] Oxygen on the Formation of Ptomaines .
of the diamines in the observation in which oxygen was excluded .
The illation in this instance was reversed , viz. , 1:3'8 , the largest quantity being obtained where oxygen was admitted in moderate quantity .
( 3 .
) Observations were also made on the effect of lengthening the duration of the putrefactive process when oxygen was entirely excluded .
The result showed that on the 13th day the diamines were reduced to one-fourth of the quantity present in a similar amount of fluid , exposed to the same conditions , on the 7th day .
( 4 .
) In all cases the bulk of the benzoyl compound obtained was made up of cadaverine , its melting point varying according to purity from 1270,5 C. to 129 ' C. Putrescine was only present in traces .
( 5 .
) The results of the observations on the quality of the bases present were not so definite .
The most definite symptoms of poisoning were obtained in one instance from the injection of a fluid which had putrefied in the absence of oxygen .
They included prostration , increased peristalsis , and diarrhoea , and on another occasion rise of temperature .
Conclusions .
Certain conclusions are drawn from the above data , partly of a special , partly of a general , character .
The results are interpreted as tending to support Pasteur 's original views as to the relation of fermentation processes to absence of oxygen , as against those more recently advanced by Schiitzen-herger , Nageli , Buchner , and others .
They show for the putrefactive bacteria at least that a free supply of oxygen prevents fermentation altogether , as judged alike by absence of aromatic products and ptomaines , and by presence of ammonia from the very first .
They also show that Brieger 's view before mentioned as to the necessity of the oxygen for the formation of ptomaines must be considerably qualified , the results obtained being entirely opposed to such a view .
As regards the influence of oxygen on the quality of the ptomaines 'nned , the conclusion is drawn that the presence or absence of 0xygen is not the chief factor in determining the formation of poisonous , as distinguished from harmless , ptomaines ; and that other ac rs , such as duration of putrefactive process and nature of Material , are likewise incapable of doing so .
\#166 ; oth the formation and the character of poisonous ptomaines must referred to individual characters of the bacteria present , probably 80the influence of " mixed infection , " rather than to the physical 11 itions under which they act , important as the present observa-Vf QS+ ?
r07e cer^ain 'f the latter to be in modifying in a very material 7 c fermentative action of bacteria generally .

