383 On the Two Modes of Condensation of Water Vapour on GlassSurfaces , and their Analogy James Thomson 's Curve of Transition from Gas to Liquid .
By Professor Fred .
T. Trouton , F.R.S. ( Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1907 .
) Experiments were made , using glass wool as the substance on which the-condensation of water vapour was observed , in continuation of work published last year in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society '* on the condensation of water vapour by wool and cotton .
The apparatus used is similar to that previously employed except for an alteration to enable the material under examination to be raised in temperature for the purpose of drying .
The general arrangement is shown in fig. 1 .
The cylindrical bulb holds .
Toll pump Fig. 1 .
the material , and can be surrounded with a vessel of hot oil in order to dry it the more thoroughly .
The branch tube on the left leads to the drying * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 77 , 1906 .
384 Prof. Trouton .
Two Modes of Condensation of [ May 1 , tube and air pump .
On the right is the arrangement for supplying known .feeds of water freed from air .
The volume of the feed is that of the fine bore tube lying between the two taps .
Next it is the gauge for reading the vapour pressure .
The glass wool used in these experiments was placed in the bulb seen on the left in the figure , and was dried in vacuo at 160 ' C. for about 70 hours by means of phosphorus pentoxide .
The experiment after that consisted in feeding in water from time to time , and in observing the depression produced in the pressure gauge .
The amount of water supplied at each feed was sufficient to saturate the bulb about four times over in the absence of the glass wool .
The character of the curve connecting the pressure with the amount of water held by the glass wool was altogether different from that obtained wTith wool or cotton .
The pressure increases with the quantity of water absorbed much more rapidly at first than with either of those substances ; but on reaching a certain critical value the further additions of water reduce the pressure .
After that the pressure begins to again increase , with increase of water absorbed , finally passing to saturation in a similar manner to that with wool or cotton .
In making these experiments , several days were allowed to intervene between successive feeds of wTater , as it was found that some time was required for equilibrium to be set up .
In one series of experiments as long as 10 days was given between the feeds , but practically after three days no further change was observed to take place .
This was the period allowed in all subsequent experiments .
The following table ( p. 385 ) shows the results obtained in one series of experiments .
The observations in Table I are shown plotted in fig. 2 .
It will be seen that at about 0*6 cm .
, or , roughly , at about one-half saturation , a rapid absorption sets in , suggesting a state of supersaturation .
The final and initial parts of the curve lie well on the continuous one which has been drawn in as a dotted line .
It will be also noticed that , after the breaking down of the stage of supersaturation , a small rise occurs in the actual observation .
This has been ignored in drawing the curve , as in amount the variation is almost comparable with the errors of observation ; but , on the other hand , similar rises were obtained in the other experiments , suggesting that there may be minute alternations in the pressure following the first breaking down of the state of supersaturation .
It is obvious from these observations that it could be arranged for a glass surface , holding a certain amount of water , to have a less vapour pressuie 1907 .
] Water Vapour on Glass , etc. Table I. Weight per square centimetre in arbitrary units .
Pressure in centimetres .
Weight per square centimetre in arbitrary units .
Pressure in centimetres .
Weight per square centimetre in arbitrary units .
Pressure in centimetres .
i 0-548 14 i 1 -102 27 1 -206 2 0-656 15 1 -1.29 29 1 -182 3 0-629 16 1 -126 31 1 -217 4 0-637 17 1 -131 33 1 -210 5 0-614 18 1 -136 34 1 -215 6 0-617 19 1 -140 35 1 -221 7 0-772 20 1*141 37 1 -202 8 0-961 21 1 -159 39 1-220 9 1 -024 22 1 -167 40 1 -221 10 1 -073 23 1 -158 41 1 -228 11 1-089 24 1 -180 43 1 -243 12 1 -095 25 1 -174 44 1-219 13 1 -093 26 1 -186 45 1 -225 The observed pressures have been reduced to a common temperature of 15 ' 0 .
by means of the law of isoneres ( see 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 77 , 1906 , p. 292 ) .
Fig. 2 .
than a drier surface , and we are led to the remarkable conclusion that it is quite possible for a relatively wet surface to act as a drying agent to a surface drier than itself .
Two other series of experiments were made , but were only carried as far as the point showing the diminution in pressure on the addition of further moisture .
These experiments are shown plotted in figs. 3 and 4 .
The supersaturation effect , bringing about this curious diminution in VOL. lxxix.\#151 ; a. 2 D 386 Prof. Trouton .
Two Modes of Condensation of [ May 1 , pressure after a certain point is reached would seem to depend on processes taking place when a gas condenses on a solid , similar in character to those necessary to enable a gas to follow James Thomson 's curve of condensation of Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
vapour to liquid .
The isothermal on the pressure-volume curve was conceived by him as passing in a continuous manner from .
the state of gas to that of liquid ( fig. 5 ) .
Curves of this kind are given by any of the numerous characteristic gas-equations .
Fig. 5 .
That this mode of passage between these states is not one commonly followed is , perhaps , not surprising when we remember that the gas must be enclosed in an envelope in order to be compressed along an isothermal , and 1907 .
] Water Vapour on Glass Surfaces , etc. is , on reaching the point a , consequently in contact with material in virtually the liquid state , already deposited on the walls of the containing vessel through surface condensation or absorption at an earlier stage .
In presence of this liquid the material passes over directly into the liquid form instead of traversing the continuous path .
To expect the continuous process to take place , under these circumstances , is thus not unlike attempting to obtain a supersaturated solution in presence of a crystal of the dissolved salt .
For a substance to follow freely the transition curve*from gas to liquid , the absence of other kinds of matter , even of an envelope , is essential .
Such a condensation is conceivable when the material condenses under its own mutual gravitation in a place apart from all other attracting matter .
We now turn to the corresponding case of a vapour becoming deposited on a surface of a solid through the mutual attraction between the particles of the solid and of the gas or , shortly , by " adsorption .
" The law of force\#151 ; Laplace 's law , F = o-i\lt ; r2/ ( r)\#151 ; is probably the same for this case as for where the forces are between the particles of the gas itself , only the " densities " \lt ; rx and cr2 of the two attracting substances being different .
Thus , we might expect a similar course of events to take place wffien under these forces condensation on a surface occurs , to that which takes place in the case of a gas following James Thomson 's curve .
If this were so , the character of the curve ( fig. 2 ) experimentally found for the condensation or adsorption of water vapour on glass becomes explicable .
When the pressure of the vapour in contact with a surface quite free from moisture gradually increases , the material at first condenses in a form which , for convenience , may be called the a form .
The pressure goes up to a certain maximum value , after which it falls , owing to the material passing into the / 3 or liquid form along a James Thomson curve .
After this , on addition of sufficient material , the pressure can be increased up to saturation .
The question suggests itself : is there a case of adsorption of a vapour by a surface corresponding to the case of direct passage into the liquid from the gaseous state without going through the intermediate stage of the transition curve ?
That is to say , if there were any of the material in the / 3 or liquid state , would direct conversion into that state take place in a manner analogous to the usual direct path of condensation on a gas liquefying ?
The necessary condition\#151 ; the presence of material in the / 3 state\#151 ; for this form of condensation , was found to be obtained by drying the glass wool with phosphorus pentoxide at ordinary temperatures for a time only just sufficient to reduce the pressure of the vapour to zero. .
The results obtained with the material so dried are given in Table II , and are shown plotted in fig. 6 .
It will be seen that the curve , unlike the 388 Prof. Trouton .
Two Modes of Condensation of [ May 1 , previous curve , begins by being concave to the pressure co-ordinate and is thus similar in this respect to those obtained with wool and cotton .
Table II .
Weight per square centi- Pressure in Weight per square centi- Pressure .
metre in arbitrary units .
* centimetres .
metre in arbitrary units .
m centimetres .
0-3 0 -0075 7-5 0-909 0-5 0 -010 8-3 0-989 1 -3 0-020 9-5 1-060 2-0 0-216 10 -7 1-165 3-0 0-480 12 -2 1 -243 3-8 0-583 12 -9 1-249 5 -0 0-698 13 -8 1 -271 6*0 0-688 14-8 1 -330 6-8 0-837 These pressures were reduced to a common temperature of 20 ' C. Observations were continued on to saturation , but are not given , as presenting nothing of interest .
9 io n 12 13 14 15 Fig. 6 .
It is to be noticed that in this case , though the glass begins by being " wet " relatively to the glass in the previous case , yet a fresh quantity of water produces only a small increase in the pressure compared to what it produces when the glass is very dry .
The presence , then , of condensed vapour , or liquid , gives a nucleus , so to speak , for further condensations , or affords an example for condensation which 1907 .
] Water Vapour on Glass etc. is absent in the case where more complete drying is effected .
This would seem to require us to suppose that there are two modes in which the molecules of water in condensing can arrange themselves on the surface of the glass .
Two other curves are given , fig. 7 and fig. 8 , where the drying was at ordinary temperature but was continued for a longer period .
In all these a slight indication of supersaturation will be noticed at about the same pressure as for the dry case .
This may be due to a mixed effect brought about by a small quantity of the material being really dry , so that there is a small amount of absorption thus reducing the pressure .
Feeds i z 3 4 5 Fig. 7 .
Feeds 1 Fig. 8 .
The phenomenon described throws light on a curious observation which , no doubt , all have noticed who have worked much with phosphorus-pentoxide drying tubes .
The absorption of vapour is seen to be apparently confined to certain parts of the tube , and there the pentoxide may actually liquefy , while at other points it remains apparently dry .
The explanation is that the wetter portion may absorb moisture without the pressure going up sensibly , while the relatively dry material can only absorb if the pressure goes up .
In fact , a wet portion might be used to dry a drier portion .
A simple experiment to illustrate the effect can be easily made with two portions of phosphorus pentoxide in this way .
Two small porcelain dishes are taken : one of these is dried by heating it red hot , while the other is left as it is with the usual condensed moisture from the atmosphere on it .
Pentoxide is placed on both and they are then put under a bell-jar .
In a short time signs of condensation in the form of small liquid globules will appear round the edge of the pentoxide on the undried dish along the line of contact with it , also , perhaps , at a few points of dust over the surface of both portions of pentoxide .
As the drying proceeds , it will be seen to be almost entirely effected by the portion in the undried dish , the other , except for a few globules on the surface , remaining unwet .
In fact , if there is the proper quantity of moisture present in the bell-jar , the one will run liquid 390 Two Modes of Condensation of Water , etc. while the other remains dry , except for the few specks mentioned .
The action is , no doubt , due to the pentoxide in the first instance obtaining moisture from the porcelain surface which was left undried and thus forming a material to which moisture can be added , without the vapour pressure going rapidly up ; whereas in the case of the dry salt , the pressure has first to reach a maximum or critical value before free absorption can take place .
We may expect similar effects to take place in the case of other vapours or gases , that is to say , for two modes of condensation of a gas on solid surfaces to be possible , or , shortly , for the surface density not to be a single valued function of the pressure .
The variation in the pressure which is liable to take place in vacuum discharge tubes may , in part at least , be due to this phenomenon .
Thus , with a given amount of gas in the tube , we would have the possibility of two stable modes of condensation , each with its own proper pressure .
When the condensation is in the a state , the pressure is necessarily higher than when in the / 3 state , as less is on the glass .
The running of the tube , we may suppose , forces gas to take up the / 3 state , which increases the proportion on the glass with a corresponding diminution in the pressure , while by means of external heating the a state may be restored with a rise in pressure .
The possibility for two layers of condensed vapour of different surface densities to be in equilibrium with the same vapour probably arises through molecular association in the ft state and , in consequence , the tendency for molecules to escape into the space above the condensed layer being somehow lessened thereby ; but it is not easy to say if this relative lessening in the f3 state as compared with the a state is to be attributed to an increased molecular force between the particles of the glass and those of the associated molecules in the / 3 state or to the molecules in the a state being at a greater distance from those of the glass due to a looser molecular piling of the condensed surface layer .
Several important points suggest themselves in connection with the question of the two possible states in which vapour can condense on solid surfaces .
It would be of interest , for instance , to be able to compare the conducting power for electricity of the surface layers on glass at the same vapour pressure , according as they are in the a or / 3 state ; also to ascertain what function of temperature the critical pressure is .
Experiments for these purposes are now being undertaken .
I take this opportunity for acknowledging my obligation to my assistant Mr. Burgess , for the accuracy and care with which he has made the observations necessary for this work .

