Organisation of Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
117 February 8 , 1894 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Further Observations on the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
Part I. Catamites , stachys , and SphenophyllumBy W. C. WILLIAMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester , and D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph , D. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , Honorary Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received December 30 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
Catamites.\#151 ; The first part of the paper gives a detailed account of the vegetative structure of Catamites , on the basis of a renewed investigation , in which special attention has been directed to developmental questions .
The petrified specimens which have formed the chief material for our observations have their structure preserved in great perfection , and it has been possible to make a thorough study of their organisation at various stages of development .
The primary structure of the young stem , before growth in thickness has begun , bears a striking resemblance to that of Equisetum .
The stem was jointed , with a whorl of leaves at each node .
Although in the specimens showing structure the leaves have not been found in connexion with the stem , yet their position is evident , from that of the leaf-trace vascular bundles , the course of which can be clearly traced .
Their distribution follows the same general lines as in JE Iquisetum , but shows some additional complications .
In the internode , a single circle of collateral vascular bundles surrounds a relatively large pith , which is solid in some of the smallest twigs , but became fistular in all the larger stems .
In comparing the vegetative organs with those of it is evident that only the primary structure of Catamites can be taken * into consideration .
VOL. LV .
K 118 Prof. W. C. Williamson and Dr. D. H. Scott .
[ Feb. 8 , One important point to be decided was the nature of the canal which in both genera accompanies each vascular bundle on its inner side .
In Equisetum these canals , as is well known , mark the position of the first-formed tracheae of the wood , which have become disorganised owing to the growth of the surrounding tissues .
We have now proved that the " intemodal " canals of Galamites are of precisely the same nature .
Here also the canals have been constantly found to contain the annular and spiral tracheae of the protoxylem , which in longitudinal and oblique sections can be recognised with perfect distinctness .
At the nodes the canals are usually interrupted .
The primary nodal xylem consists of a girdle of short , often reticulate , tracheae , and closely resembles the corresponding structure in an Equisetum .
The foliar bundles pass out horizontally at the nodes .
Their tracheae are spiral , scalar if orm , or reticulated .
In many of the specimens the primary cortex is preserved .
Its outer layers are usually more or less sclerotic , and in a few cases alternate hypodermal bands of sclerenchyma and parenchyma can be distinguished , as in many Equiseta .
On the whole , the primary structure of the stem of Galamites is substantially that of Equisetum .
In Galamites , however , secondary tissues were always added , and are only absent from the youngest branches .
We have no evidence for the existence of any Calamite without secondary growth .
The process , which went on essentially as in normal Dicotyledons , or Grymuosperms , has been observed at all stages .
In the best-preserved specimens the cambium , with the thin-walled phloem outside it , can be recognised .
The primary medullary rays separating the bundles are in some specimens prolonged , as parenchymatous tissue , through the secondary wood .
In the type previously described as the principal rays consist of prosenchymatous cells , and the structure approaches that of Galamodendron .
In the majority of the typical stems of Galamites ( = of Goppert ) the principal rays become bridged over by interfascicular wood .
In this case most of the radial series of parenchymatous elements die out towards the exterior , and are replaced by series of tracheae .
The exact manner in which this change takes place is discussed in the paper .
The wood consists of tracheae , and of small secondary rays , the cells of which are usually upright .
The tracheal elements appear not to be vessels , but tracheides ; they may attain a length of 4 mm. The pits , which are bordered , are limited to the radial walls of the j tracheae , except in the most internal layers of the wood .
The innermost cells of the primary medullary rays underwent con- : 1894 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
119 siderable tangential dilatation , allowing of a certain increase in the diameter of the pith .
The cortical tissues attained a great thickness in the older stems , owing to the formation of abundant periderm .
In one specimen the first origin of the periderm , by tangential divisions of the inner cortical cells , could be clearly traced .
A periderm-like layer was also formed on the surface of the diaphragms , cutting them off from the medullary cavity .
A number of specimens show the insertion of branches , on a relatively main axis .
The branches were placed immediately above the node ; often there were several in a whorl .
Each branch usually lies between two of the leaf-trace bundles next below .
The pith of the branch tapers towards the base , almost to a point , so that it is connected with the medulla of the parent stem by a narrow neck of tissue only .
This gives rise to the characteristic conical form of those medullary casts which represent the pith-cavity of the basal portion of a branch .
In favourable specimens the continuity of the primary wood of the branch with that of the main stem can be demonstrated with certainty .
The branches were no doubt normal , not adventitious , appendages , and arose near the growing point .
Subsequently both the base of the branch and the parent stem became coated by a common zone of secondary wood .
As the branch is traced , from below upwards , the diameter of the pith becomes larger , the number of the vascular bundles increases in the successive internodes , and the characteristic Calamitean structure is assumed .
At a certain distance above the base the dimensions become approximately constant .
Many of the branches were abortive , or were at least cast off at an early age .
This is proved by the fact that in many specimens the pith of the branch is enclosed towards the exterior by the secondary wood of the main stem .
From specimens shown to one of us by M. Renault , it appears that the roots , which were borne at or below the nodes , had the structure of Astromyelon .
This fact necessitates a re-investigation of the fossils described under the latter name .
2 .
Oalamostachys.\#151 ; The homosporous G. Binney ana is first considered .
The morphology of the strobilus is well known .
The axis bears alternate whorls of bracts and of sporangiophores .
The bracts are coherent for a considerable distance from their base , forming the horizontal disc .
Their free limbs turn vertically upwards , and extend at least as far as the second bracteal whorl above .
The number of bracts in each whorl is about 12 .
K 2 120 Prof. W. C. Williamson and Dr. D. H. Scott .
[ Feb. 8 , The sporangiophores are in verticils , placed midway between those of the bracts , and are usually about half as numerous in eacb whorl as the latter .
The sporangiophores are peltate , resembling those of Equisetum .
each bears four sporangia on its lower surface , attached near the edge .
The structure of the axis of the strobilus has been studied in detail .
The central cylinder , or stele ( which may be either obtusely triangular or quadrangular , as seen in transverse section ) , has a parenchymatous pith , of considerable relative size , around which are the collateral vascular bundles .
In the triquetrous form their number is 3 or 6 ; in the quadrangular type it is 4 .
The bundles are always placed at the projecting corners of the stele .
On the inner side of each bundle is a gap , or irregular canal , in which the annular and spiral tracheae of the protoxylem are contained .
The phloem is very rarely preserved , but in one specimen could be clearly recognised .
The structure of the bundles , both in the internodes and nodes , is essentially similar to that of Calamites , the chief differences Consisting in their small number and less definite canals .
' 'In many of the axes a zone of secondary wood , of considerable thickness , was formed .
Vascular bundles pass out into each bract and sporangiophore .
In the latter the bundle forks twice , and each of the four branches runs out , through the peltate expansion , to the base of a sporangium .
The sporangial wall , as preserved , is usually a single layer of cells , which have their walls thickened in a manner resembling that of the " fibrous layer " of some anthers .
The spores are all of one kind .
No trace of macrospores was found in any of the numerous strobili of this species which were examined .
The spores attain a diameter of about 009 mm. In some specimens they are isolated ; in other sporangia they are still grouped in tetrads , each tetrad being enclosed within the wall of the mothercell .
It is rare for all the four spores of a tetrad to be equally developed .
As a rule , one or more of the sister-spores remained very much smaller than their , neighbours , and were , to all appearance , abortive .
The abortion of these spores must have allowed of an increased nutrition of the survivors , and thus have been of considerable physiological importance .
CalamostachysGasheana , Will .
, is the heterosporous species .
Only two specimens are at present certainly known .
The general morpho- 1894 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
121 logy and anatomy of the strobilus are similar to , but not identical with , those of the homosporous C. Binneyana .
The macrosporangia and microsporangia were borne in the same strobilus , and in one case both kinds of sporangia were found on the same sporangiophore .
The diameter of the microspores is about 0075 mm. ; that of the macrospores is just three times as great .
In the macrosporangia , but never in the microsporangia , numerous abortive spores are constantly found .
They are of variable size , but are always much smaller even than the microspores of the same plant .
Their invariable presence in the macrosporangia , and equally constant absence from the microsporangia , leave little doubt that they were the abortive sister-cells of the macrospores .
These facts appear to throw some light on the origin of the phenomenon of heterospory in the genus Calamostachys .
In C. Binneyana the abortion of certain sister-cells of the spores , involving the better nutrition of the survivors , had already begun , but still took place equally in all sporangia .
In C. Casheana the same process , carried further in certain of the sporangia , rendered possible the development of specially favoured macrospores , which attained their relatively large size at the expense of their neighbours , which remained rudimentary .
All analogy leads us to suppose that to these macrospores the formation of a female prothallus was entrusted .
In the micro-sporangia no abortion appears to have taken place , and the spores attained a uniform small size .
The axis of the strobilus of C. Casheana has a well-marked zone of secondary wood , thus affording direct evidence of the occurrence of secondary growth in a heterosporous Cryptogam .
The affinities of Calamostachys are discussed at length .
In neither of the species in question has the strobilus been found in connexion with vegetative organs .
Other species however , e.g. , C. Ludwigi , were borne on undoubtedly Calamarian stems .
The fructification of a true Catamites has been described in a previous memoir ( Williamson , " Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures , Part XIV , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1888 ) .
This strobilus differs from Calamostachys in the position of the sporangiophores , which were approximately axillary ( instead of being placed in independent verticils , midway between those of the bracts ) , and also in the anatomy of the peduncle and axis , which was identical with that of the stem of a typical Catamites .
To this fossil we now propose to give the name of Catamites pedunculatus .
The position of its sporangiophores is that characteristic of Weiss 's genus Palceostachya .
The only certain fructification of a Catamites thus differs considerably from a Calamostachys .
The differences , however , are not such Prof. W. C. Williamson and Dr. D. H. Scott .
[ Feb. 8 , as to preclude a near relationship .
A form described by M. Renault , under the name of Bruckmannia unites the external morphology of a Galamostachys with the anatomy of a It is therefore possible that the species of Galamostachys considered in this paper may have been borne on stems with Calamitean structure , but this cannot be proved until the strobili are found in actual continuity with the vegetative organs .
3 .
Sphenophyllum.\#151 ; The habit of these plants is well known .
The rather slender , jointed stem bore verticils of superposed leaves , the number of leaves in each verticil being some multiple of 3 .
The leaves were sometimes cuneate , sometimes dichotomously subdivided , sometimes linear .
The anatomy of several undoubted species of Sphenophyllum is now known , and there is no longer any doubt that some of the fossils described in previous memoirs under the name of really belong to Sphenophyllum .
The first species described is Sphenop = Astero-phyllites sphenophylloides of the former memoirs .
The number of leaves in each whorl was large , not less than 18 .
They were linear in form .
The axis is traversed by a solid vascular strand , triangular , as seen in transverse section , without any pith .
The strand is triarch , with a group of narrow spiral and reticulate elements ( protoxylem ) at each angle .
The primary wood of the stem was thus centripetal , and so far resembled that of most recent Lycopodiaceee , with which , however , the genus has otherwise little in common .
Secondary growth in thickness took place constantly , and has been observed at every stage .
The secondary wood consisted of radially arranged tracheae ( whether vessels or tracheides is doubtful ) with strands of parenchyma between them .
The longitudinal parenchymatous strands are connected by radially elongated cells , which , however , seldom form continuous medullary rays .
The cambium is excellently preserved in some specimens , a fact which removes all doubt as to the truly secondary character of the tissues in question .
The primary cortex and leaves were soon cast off by the formation of internal periderm .
The older stems have a large amount of secondary tissue to the outside of the cambium .
This is shown to consist partly of true phloem , partly of internal peridermal layers , which in extreme cases formed a regular scale-bark .
A second species , Sphenophyllum insigne ( = Asterophyllites Will .
) , is described .
Its general anatomy agrees with that of the former species , apart from differences of detail .
The most important structural peculiarity of S. insigne consists in the constant presence of continuous medullary rays in its secondary wood .
1894 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the .
123 In the phloem of this species large elements , closely resembling sieve tubes , are found .
The larger specimens , which have lost their primary cortex owing to the formation of periderm , have a very root-like transverse section .
Some authors have therefore denied that they belong to Sphenophyllum , and have supposed that they are roots of some unknown plant .
This is a mistake , for the large specimens have essentially the same structure as the smaller ones , which still retain the characteristic cortex and leaves of a The inter- mediate conditions are also known .
Leaves had not been discovered in this species when the former account of its structure was given , in the earlier memoirs .
The recent researches of M. Zeiller have proved that the fructification previously described ( Williamson , " Organisation , \amp ; c. , Part XVIII , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1891 ) as Bowmanites is that of a Sphenophyllum .
In his specimens , strobili , agreeing in all respects with those of Bowmanites , are borne on the stems of the well known Sphenophyllum cuneifolium , Sternb .
The fructification in question must therefore be transferred to the genus , \#166 ; and is here described under the name of Sphenophyllum Bawsoni .
The strobilus consists of an axis bearing numerous whorls of bracts , which are coherent for some distance from their base .
The very long sporangiophores arise from the upper surface of the bracts , near their insertion , two sporangiophores corresponding to each bract .
At the end of each sporangiophore a single sporangium is borne , which hangs down , parallel to the pedicel , somewhat resembling an ana-tropous ovule in position .
The axis of the strobilus is traversed by a triarch or hexarch vascular cylinder , essentially similar to that of the vegetative stem of Sphenophyllum .
At every node vascular bundles are given oft to the bracts .
Each of these bundles , on entering the verticil of bracts , subdivides into three .
The dorsal branch passes straight out into one of the free bracts .
The two ventral branches of the bundle supply the two sporangiophores corresponding to the bract in question .
The bundle of the sporangiophore extends through its whole length , becoming thicker towards the apex , where it terminates at the base of the sporangium itself .
The cells of the sporangial wall are of great size near the base , and are very narrow at its opposite end , where dehiscence probably took place .
The spores are numerous in each sporangium , and are all of the same kind .
There is at present no conclusive evidence for the existence of a heterosporous Sphenophyllum .
The morphological nature of the sporangiophore cannot be determined with certainty .
The various possible views are stated in the 124 Prof. J. R. Green .
On Germination of the [ Fob .
8 , paper .
For the present it seems best to regard this organ as simply a sporangium-pedicel , though there is no analogy among known Cryptogams for the presence of a vascular bundle in the stalk of a sporangium .
It appears that all species of Sphenop in which the fructification is known , had essentially similar strobili , with pedicellate sporangia .
The genus Sphenophyllum cannot be placed in any existing family of Vascular Cryptogams .
Anatomically there are some striking points of resemblance to Lycopodiaceae , but the habit and fructification are totally different from anything in that order .
Sphenophyllum , in fact , constitutes a group by itself , which is entirely unrepresented at the present epoch , and the affinities of which cannot be determined until additional forms have been discovered .
The paper is illustrated by numerous photographs from the actual preparations and specimens , and by a long series of camera-lucida drawings , executed by Mr. George Brebner .
II .
" Researches on the Germination of the Pollen Grain and the Nutrition of the Pollen Tube .
" By J. Reynolds Green , M.A. , B.Sc. , Professor of Botany to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. , C.M.G. , C.LE , Received January 2 , 1894 .
( From the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Q-ardens , Kew .
) ( Abstract .
) Many observers , especially Van Tieghem and Mangin , have established the fact that the growth of the pollen tube is a process of true germination , strictly comparable to that of the growth of the prothallus from the spore in the groups of Vascular Cryptogams .
The germinative process is carried on at the expense of various reserve materials deposited partly in the pollen grain itself and partly in the conducting tissue of the style , down which the pollen tube makes its way .
The existence of certain enzymes in the pollen grain has also been proved by Van Tieghem and by Strasburger .
The former has shown that when the pollen of several genera , especially Crocus and Narcissus , is cultivated in cane-sugar solutions , a certain amount of grape-sugar is produced in the culture , suggesting the presence of invertase ; while the latter has shown similarly that certain pollens , when cultivated in starch paste , can liquefy it , with the formation of maltose .

