490 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ June 10 V. " Note on the History of the Carbon Spectrum .
" By G. D Liveing , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and , J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received May 1880 .
In a " Note on the Spectrum of Carbon , " read before the Society on April 29,1880 , Mr. Lockyer has in the first place alleged that we have advanced within a very short period inconsistent opinions as to spectra of compounds of carbon ; he has next implied that we have-given an unfair representation of the history of the carbon spectrum , and , lastly , has directly challenged the correctness of some of the conclusions we have drawn from our experiments .
We propose in this paper to reply to him on the historical questions , and in another paper to deal with the experimental evidence which he has produced in contravention of our conclusions .
That the inconsistency alleged has not really existed in our opinions , , will be seen by any one who reads the first passage referred to as it appeared in the published " Proceedings of the Society " ( vol. xxxr p. 87 ) , which stands as follows:\#151 ; " The well-nigh impossible problem of eliminating hydrogen from masses of carbon , such as can be employed in experiments of this kind , proves conclusively that the inference drawn by Mr. Lockyer as to the elementary character of the so-called carbon spectrum from an examination of the arc in dry chlorine , cannot be regarded as satisfactory , seeing that undoubtedly hydrogen was present in the and in all probability nitrogen in the chlorine .
" Mr. Lockyer has quoted the confidential , uncorrected , proof instead of the published paper which had been issued before Mr. Lockyer 's paper was read .
In the published paper a clause , accidentally omitted before , and no way altering the general drift of the passage , had been inserted to make the sense clearer .
The paper from which he quotes deals with the chemical interactions taking place in the arc between the matter of the poles and the constituents of the surrounding atmosphere .
It is there demonstrated that specially purified carbon poles continue to produce in dry air cyanogen compounds , and that hydrogen always forms an essential ingredient of such poles .
No reference was made in this paper to the specific origin of any flutings in the spectrum of the arc , the sole question under consideration being the possible existence of carbon compounds in the electric arc taken in dry chlorine , on the non-existence of which Mr. Lockyer bases his proof of the elementary character of the carbon spectrum .
That part of the paper from which the quotation is taken related particularly to the combination of nitrogen with the carbon of * Mr. Lockyer having italicized the former half of the last clause , we italicize what he chose to omit .
1880 .
] Note on the History of the Carbon Spectrum .
491 the poles , and the final clause added in the published paper accords with it .
There is no inconsistency between the opinion there expressed and that subsequently given in the paper " On the Spectra of the Compounds bf Carbon with Hydrogen and Nitrogen ; " and that such a charge could have been made is due only to Mr. Lockyer 's having quoted the uncorrected proof .
To come to the omissions wTe have made in reference to the work of others .
The complaints appear in such remarks as the following , which we extract from Mr. Lockyer 's paper :\#151 ; " As Messrs. Living and Dewar do not controvert the very definite conclusions arrived at by Attfield , Morren , Watts , and others , I can only presume that they have taken for granted that the experimental work performed by these men was tainted by the ' presence of impurities , and that it was impossible to avoid them .
" " The only reference to this admirable work , in which vacuum tubes and the electric discharge were largely employed , which I can find in Messrs. Dewar and Liveing 's paper is the following :\#151 ; " The spectrum of hydrocarbon burning in air has been . . .
described ... .
by Attfield .
" It was not our intention to give a complete historical account of what had been done previous to the date of the paper by Angstrom and Thalen ( " .
Nov. Acta Reg. Soc. Upsal .
, " 1875 ) , as in that paper they had discussed the observations of experimenters who had been engaged on this subject before that time .
Nor had we any desire to avoid or controvert , or take anything for granted , in the work of early investigators .
We merely passed over for the sake of brevity such work as had not stood the test of subsequent investigation .
We could hardly accept Dr. Attfield 's work , however good for its time , as authoritative , seeing that his experiments were made , as he allows ( " Phil. Mag. , " 1875 ) , with very imperfect appliances , and evidently without his being so well aware as we now are of the nicety required in regard to the purity of his materials .
In fact , he found no distinction between the spectrum of carbonic oxide and that of hydrocarbons , and found the lines of nitrogen in the spectrum of the flame of cyanogen .
We can hardly be charged with ignoring Morren 's work , for we have referred to it again and again .
The particular passage quoted by Mr. Lockyer embodies observations and conclusions which are at variance with those of Pliicker and Hittorf , as well as of Watts ; and are substantively discussed by us in our paper .
Dr. Watts ' position with reference to this subject deserves very special consideration , as he has perhaps directed his attention to it more continuously and laboriously than any other investigator .
And as his publications have extended over a long period ot years , it is clear that a grave injustice is done him if his early work be selected 492 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ J une for quotation instead of the maturer product of his latest study .
This kind of selective quotation does not represent the true scientific spirit .
The quotation from Dr. Watts ' paper ( " Phil. Mag. , " 1869 ) which Mr. Lockyer prefaces by this remark\#151 ; " His work was thus sum-marised by himself , " \#151 ; has in reality no reference to a complete ' summation of his experiments , but has solely to do with " the typical form of the first carbon spectrum , that obtained when olefiant gas and oxygen are burnt together in an oxyhydrogen blowpipe jet .
" That this is the correct view of Dr. Watts ' position , the following extracts will show:_ " The spectrum obtained from cyanogen varies with the mode of production .
The flame of cyanogen in oxygen exhibits 7 , and e ; the red group is replaced by a series of bands which show an opposite character to the rest of the spectrum , inasmuch as each band is brightest at the most refracted edge .
If cyanogen be burnt in air instead of in oxygen these bands are more numerous , extending nearly to 8 and replacing 7 , which is then not to be seen .
Instead of the group/ we have two very brilliant groups of lines , f , which includes seven lines , and 0 , which is composed of six lines .
" The two very brilliant groups of lines which are referred to as f and 0 by Watts , and which distinguish the flame of cyanogen , are two of the sets of channelled groupings which we , in our paper on " The Spectra of the Compounds of Carbon with Hydrogen and Nitrogen , " referred to a compound of carbon with nitrogen .
Further on , in " the same paper of Dr. Watts , the following occurs:\#151 ; " In comparing the spectra of fig. 1 , we notice that the changes take place at the ends of the spectra , the central groups , 7 , 8 , e , remain substantially the same .
If we pass from the spectrum of the olefiant gas-flame to that of the cyanogen-flame , we find the change at the blue end of the spectrum consisting in the disappearance of the group f and its replacement by the groups f and 0 .
The group f is not absolutely proved to belong to carbon ( that is , it may be caused by carbonic oxide or carbonic anhydride ) ; 'but the groups |f and 0 , since they are common to carbonic oxide , cyanogen , and naphthaline , must be due to carbon , and their presence may , with much probability , be attributed to the higher temperature of the cyanogen-flame .
" # * When Mr. Lockyer makes the following statement:\#151 ; " I have also repeated Morren 's experiment and confirmed it , and I have also found that the undoubted spectrum of cyanogen is visible neither in the electric arc nor in the surrounding flame , " \#151 ; he is referring to a different part of the spectrum altogether from the one we have been discussing , and the application of the term " undoubted " to the \#166 ; specific part of the spectrum to which he here refers is simply an expression of his own view .
AngstrSm and Thalen in their " Recherches sur les Metalloides , " 1875 , have the following passage :\#151 ; " Les groupes nuancEs de cyanogfene , situEs dans les parties hleues et violettes du spectre , se montrent aussi , soit quand l'etincelle traverse la partie luisante d'une flamme it gaz , soit dans l'arc voltaique entre des .Electrodes du charbon d'une pile puissante .
Cependant , ce dernier spectre du i860 .
] Note on the History of the Carbon Spectrum .
On the ground of observing these two characteristic groups of lines \#163 ; and 0 ( our seven blue and six violet nitrocarbon bands ) in the spark spectra of carbonic oxide , cyanogen , and naphthaline , Dr. Watts was entitled at the time to infer that they must be due to the common element carbon .
Dr. Watts has , however , made many experiments on the carbon spectrum since the date of that paper , and to neglect to take into consideration papers published by him since 1869 is to misrepresent his position .
In the " Phil. Mag. " for 1874 , he wrote in a " Note on the Carbon Spectrum " as follows " In the ' Phil. Mag. ' for October , 1869 , I described four different spectra as spectra of carbon .
One of them was the ordinary spectrum from hydrocarbon flames , first described by Swann ; the second was the spectrum obtained from vacuum tubes enclosing carbonic oxide , carbonic anhydride , or olefiant gas ; the third was the spectrum of the Bessemer flame ; and the fourth , the high tension spark in carbonic anhydride or carbonic oxide .
" I have since shown ( ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1873 ) that the Bessemer flame spectrum , instead of being a spectrum of carbon , is the spectrum of manganese oxide ; and I have had now to add the result of recent observations , which show that the second spectrum also is due , not to carbon itself , but to some oxide of carbon .
This spectrum was held to be a spectrum of carbon because it was common to compounds of carbon with hydrogen and with oxygen .
" I have now found that it is not given by spectral tubes enclosing olefiant gas if special care be taken to exclude all traces of oxygen . .
We have therefore only one spectrum which can be proved to be due to carbon\#151 ; that , namely , which is common to the flame of olefiant gas or cyanogen , the electric discharge in cyanogen or carbonic oxide at the ordinary pressure , and to the electric discharge in vacuum tubes enclosing cyanogen , olefiant gas , or hydrocarbons , such as benzol .
We infer from this , that the groups \#163 ; and ( our seven blue and six violet nitrocarbon bands ) , which are certainly not common to all the spectra here enumerated , are not included in the one spectrum which Dr. Watts at that time assigned to carbon .
However that may be , it is unnecessary to say more about it here , for we have quoted enough to show that Dr. Watts ' conclusions , in 1869 , were not so certain that they could now be quoted as authoritative against the inferences drawn from later observations , and that we did our subject no injustice in making no more particular allusions to them than we did .
But , further , after describing an experiment with carbon tetrachloride , Mr. Lockyer says:\#151 ; " This result , which entirely endorses the work of Attfield and Watts , has been controlled by many other experiments .
" If we may assume that the work of Attfield and Watts cyanogene , qui est remarquable par l'eclat vif des rays , n'est pas pur , mais meal des rays des carbures d'hydrogene , dont le splendeur est encore plus magni.fi que .
" 494 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ June 10s alluded to is that described in the previous quotations , it is not a little remarkable that Mr. Lockjer 's experiments should so " entirely endorse " what Watts himself has shown to have been in part erroneous .
Lastly , we cannot allow Mr. Lockyer 's assertion that Angstrom and Thalen 's conclusions " rest more upon a theory which has been shown to be false since the labours commenced , and analogy , than upon experiment , " to remain uncorrected .
Their conclusions are eminently inductions from experiments carried on , as they say , during several years , of which the most important are particularly described .
Many of the experiments which led up to their conclusions had been previously published by Thalen in 1866 ( " Arsskrift , Upsala " ) , in a paper in which he correctly described and distinguished the spectra of hydrocarbons , of oxide of carbon , and of carbon respectively , and besides described the spectrum of the spark between carbon poles in nitrogen .
This paper is an admirable sample of good experimental work , and its perusal , together with the later paper of 1875 , leaves o no doubt that , whatever theories they may have held , Angstrom and Thalen relied mainly on experiment and observation to prove the soundness of their conclusions .
In conclusion , Mr. Lockyer introduces a reference to a former work of ours on the magnesium-hydrogen spectrum , and to a theoretical deduction regarding the interactions which might produce the cometic spectrum , making the following remark :\#151 ; " From what I have shown it will be clear that the consequences drawn in the following paragraphs by Messrs. Living and Dewar from the assumed hydrogen-carbon bands are entirely invalid .
" As this opens out a question entirely beside that in hand , depending on the validity of the premises from which Mr. Lockyer draws his conclusion , we prefer to deal with it when we discuss , in our next paper , the spectra of carbon compounds and the experimental evidence Mr. Lockyer has adduced in support of such assertions .
YI .
" On the Spectra of the Compounds of Carbon with Hydrogen and Nitrogen .
No. IT .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received May 27 , 1880 .
In our last communication on this subject ( ante , p. 152 ) , we thus summarised the results of our observations as to the nitrocarbon spectrum."* * In using this term we merely mean that we are dealing with a spectrum invariably associated with the presence of nitrogen and carbon in such conditions that chemical union takes place , without any reference to the particular compound produced .

