[ 171 ] VI .
On the Structure and Affinities of Matonia pectinata , R. Br .
, with Notes on the Geological History of the Matoninece .
By A. C. Seward , F.R.S. , University Lecturer Botany , Cambridge .
Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read March 9 , 1899 .
[ Plates 17-20 .
] I. \#151 ; Introduction .
In describing an ascent of Mount Ophir\#151 ; about fifty miles east of Malacca , in the Malay Peninsula\#151 ; Wallace writes as follows : " After passing a little tangled jungle and swampy thickets , we emerged into a fine lofty forest , pretty clear of undergrowth , and in which we could walk freely .
We ascended steadily up a moderate slope for several miles , having a deep ravine on the left .
We then had a level plateau or shoulder to cross , after which the ascent was steeper and the forest denser till we came out upon the " Padang-Batu , " or stone-field , a place of which we had heard much , but could never get any one to describe intelligibly .
We found it to be a steep slope of even rock , extending along the mountain side farther than we could see .
Parts of it were quite bare , but where it was cracked and fissured there grew a most luxuriant vegetation , among which the pitcher plants were the most remarkable ... .
A few Coniferae of the genus Dacrydium here first appeared , and in the thickets , just above the rocky surface , we walked through groves of those splendid ferns , Dipteris Horsfeldii and Matonia pectin , which bear large spreading palmate fronds on slender stems , 6 or 8 feet high .
The Matonia is the tallest and most elegant , and is known only from this mountain , and neither of them is yet introduced into our hot-houses .
" # A sketch of Dipteris and Matonia accompanies this description .
Both these ferns are of special interest on account of their rarity and isolation at the present day , and as living representatives of generic types which had a wide distribution in Europe during the Mesozoic epoch .
The following pages deal with the structure of Matonia pectinata and with such records of fossil ferns as throw light on the past history of Matonia and closely allied genera .
* Wallace ( 86 ) , p. 30 .
[ The numbers in brackets after the author 's name refer to the year of publication as given in the Bibliography at the end of the paper .
] z 2 16.10.99 The genus Matonia was defined in 1830 by Robert Brown , and the diagnosis first appeared in Wallich 's ' Plantae Asiaticae Rariores .
' The choice of the generic name Matonia was in honour of Dr. W. G. Maton , F.R.S. , Vice-President of the Linnean Society from 1774 to 1835 .
Brown 's diagnosis is as follows :\#151 ; " Sori dorsales , rotundi , e puncto confluentiae venularum plurium orti .
Indusium orbiculatum peltatum .
Capsulae sessiles , in serie simplici circa receptaculum dis-positae .
" " Filix pulcherrima laevis , fronde subbipinnata .
Pinnae plures hinc superiores , paucibus inde secundae , omnes pinnatifidae , lobis integerrimis singulis basi , nunc utroque latere , nunc inferiore tantum monosoris , raro bisoris .
" # The type-specimen , on which the diagnosis of the genus and of the single species Matonia pectinata was founded , was collected by Colonel Farquhar in 1815 , at an altitude of 4000 feet on Mount Ophir ; it is now in the Wallich Herbarium , in the apartments of the Linnean Society , and the excellent drawing by C. M. Curtis\#151 ; the original of Wallich 's plate\#151 ; is in the collection of illustrations in the Kew Herbarium .
On the sheet bearing the type-specimen Wallich has written " nopteris Farquhariana , Wall .
For Prion substitute Matonia , Brown .
" t In 1842 Sir William Hooker gave an account of Matonia pectinata in Hooker and Bauer 's ' Genera Filicum , ' and published some new drawings of the specimen previously illustrated by Wallich .
He compares the sporangia with those of Cyatheaceous ferns.| The same author appended the following note to his description of the species in the ' Species Filicum ' : " Of late years I have received copious specimens of this magnificent and rare fern , and am satisfied that the genus belongs to the Cyatheaceous group .
" S In the ' Synopsis Filicum ' Matonia pectinata is thus described : " One of the rarest and handsomest of ferns .
Frond ample , fan-shaped , 1|- to 2 feet wide , hardly coriaceous .
Each portion sub-scorpioideopinnate on one ( the superior ) side .
Pinnules consequently all secund pectinato-pinnatifid .
" || Moore refers Matonia pectinata to a special tribe , Matoninese .
" This remarkable and extremely handsome plant , " he writes , " is quite unlike any other fern , and well deserves to rank as a distinct tribe , which we place in the neighbourhood of the Cyatheinese , on account of the sub-oblique rings of the spore-cases .
Bommer## follows Moore , and places Matonia as the only genus in the tribe Matonineae of the order Polypodiaceae .
John Smith , on the other hand , associates the genus with * * * S ** * Wallich ( 30 ) , vol. 1 , p. 16 .
t Vide also Brown ( 67 ) , p. 531 .
} Hooker ( 42 ) , London , 1867 , p. 531 .
S Hooker ( 64 ) , p. 286 .
|| Hooker and Bauer ( 68 ) , p. 45 , Plate 1 , fig. 8 .
IT Moore ( 57 ) , p. 106 .
** Bommer ( 67 ) , p. 89 , Plate 3 , fig. 7 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
Gleichenia , but refers to the presence of an indusium as a distinguishing feature.* Beddome gives a figure of Matonia pectinata in his ' Ferns of British India , ' and includes the genus among the Cyatheacesc .
f In Christ 's recent work on ferns , Matonia is placed in the Matoniacese , which , with the Gleicheniaceae , constitute the sub-class Oligangia .
The somewhat crude figures of Matonia pectinata , given by Christ , do not convey a very accurate impression of the characteristic features of this species .
J Until 1888 Matonia pectinata remained the only known representative of Bobert Brown 's genus , but in that year Mr. Baker , S of Kew , published an account of the external features of a new fern discovered by Mr. Charles Hose at Niah , Sarawak , which he named Matonia sarmentosa .
This species is particularly interesting as the habit differs considerably from that of M. pectinata , while the sori and sporangia agree closely with those of the older species .
The type-specimen of Matonia sarmentosa is in the Kew Herbarium , and the species is also represented in the British Museum collection .
An examination of the material on which Baker 's diagnosis was based affords ample evidence in support of the reference of the species to the genus Matonia .
As the author of the species says , it has " precisely the fructification of Matonia pectinata , which is completely different in habit .
" Baker concludes his account of the new species by expressing the opinion that Matonia ought clearly to form a tribe by itself , and should not be united with the Cyatheacese.|| The existing accounts of Matonia are confined to the form of the fronds .
Hooker described the rhizome of Matonia pectinata as " creeping , but no detailed description accompanies any of the references to the habit of the species .
The generally accepted view as to the affinities of the genus is that it occupies a position intermediate between Gleicheniacese and Cyatheaceae , and " evidently represents an ancient type now in course of extinction."** It is interesting to find that the anatomy of the stem and other characters amply bear out the view , founded solely on external characters , that Matonia stands alone among existing ferns .
In the early part of the present year ( 1898 ) my friend , Mr. R. Sheleord , of Emmanuel College , Cambridge , the Curator of the Sarawak Museum , forwarded me some material of the fronds and rhizomes of Matonia pectinata collected at Matang , 3000 feet above sea-level .
My hearty thanks are due to him for having obtained the necessary material and preserving it in a manner suitable for anatomical investigation .
Mr. Shelford tells me that Matonia pectinata has been found in Borneo on the * * * S ** * Smith ( 75 ) , p. 340 .
t Beddome ( 68 ) , p. 186 , Plate 186 .
J Christ ( 97 ) , pp. 335 , 336 .
S Baker ( 88 ) , p. 256 .
|| Baker ( 91 ) , p. 191 , Plate 14 .
H Hooker ( 64 ) , vol. 5 , p. 286 .
** Solms-Laubach , Graf zu ( 91 ) , p. 154 mountains Santuborg and Matang .
On the latter Matonia grows only at the top , 3500 to 3800 feet above sea-level , and is not plentiful .
It is confined to old jungle , and never occurs in jungle that has been cut down and allowed to grow up again .
It always grows in damp places , reaching a height of about 4 to 6 feet , with a rhizome which creeps along the ground just below or just above the surface .
The occurrence of this species is recorded by Burch# in the Karimatae Islands , where it was collected by the late Mr. Teysmann , and it has been found near Sarawak by Beccari and Bishop Hoze .
Among other localities from which Matonia has been recorded mention may be made of Mount Ophir , Perak , Karimum Islands ( off Singapore ) , Malacca , Gemong , Amboyna , \amp ; c. A. External Features .
i. The Stem .
The rhizome , with an average diameter of about 7 millims. , is thickly covered with brown multicellular hairs , which give it an appearance similar to the creeping stem of the Hare 's foot fern.f It branches fairly frequently in an apparently dichotomous manner , and gives off petioles from its upper surface , while a few dark brown slender roots are attached to different parts of the stem , and are by no means confined to the lower surface .
A striking feature of the rhizome is the occurrence of young and old fronds on the same branch , apparently without conformity to the usual acropetal order of succession .
This peculiarity is clearly shown in the pieces of stem represented in Plate 1 , figs. 1-2 .
The portion of stem seen in fig. 1 bears five leaf-stalks , a \#151 ; e ; the first occurs immediately behind the blunt hairy apex , and appears in the photograph as a slight protuberance , a ; the second , b , is still very short and enclosed in a thick felt of brown hairs ; the third petiole , c , has emerged from its protective envelope , and exhibits a circinately coiled tip turned towards the stem apex ; at d there is the torn base of what was probably a mature frond , and at e the fifth petiole appears in a slightly less advanced stage than the third leaf-bud c. Beyond e there was a sixth frond , not included in the photograph , slightly longer than b. The distance between the leaf-stalks shown in fig. 1 is 3 centims. , and the length of the rhizome 13 centims. The photograph in fig. 2 illustrates the juxtaposition of two young fronds of approximately the same stage of elongation ; the same figure also shows a general tendency of the hairs to curve upwards towards the upper surface of the rhizome , presenting an appearance as if the felt of the stem had been brushed in an upward direction .
This characteristic feature is illustrated also in thick transverse sections of the rhizome .
The longest piece of rhizome received from Borneo measured 26 centims. in length , * Burch , W. ( 84 ) , p. 90 .
t A brief outline of the external features and anatomical structure of Matonia was given before Section K at the British Association at Bristol in 1898 .
[ Seward ( 98 ) .
] AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
with one bifurcation , and bearing thirteen fronds in different stages of development .
In one or two of the specimens of Matonia in the Kew and British Museum Herbaria , the frond is attached to a small piece of stem , but in most cases the leaf alone has been preserved by collectors .
The apparent irregularity in the order of development of the leaves may be explained by assuming that only one frond matures on each branch of a rhizome ; a somewhat similar manner of leaf-development may be seen on the rhizomes of species of Davallia and Oleanclra .
ii .
The Leaf .
The appearance of the fronds in their youngest form is shown in figs. 1 and 2 , Plate 17 , and fig. 30 , Plate 19 .
An older frond presents the appearance of a closely coiled helix ( fig. 3 , Plate 17 ) ; the inner face of the leaf-stalk is slightly concave , and this enables the inner turns of the spire to be tightly embraced by the outer , the whole forming a compact and efficiently protected bud .
In fig. 4 the crozier is partially unrolled , and the palmate pinnae are just visible .
In fig. 5 the unrolling has progressed rather further , and in fig. 6 the erect petiole is seen to be subdivided into several partially expanded hairy pinnae , suggesting the characteristic habit of the mature frond .
The form of the frond is seen more clearly in fig. 7 ; in this leaf the seventeen pinnae are still slightly coiled at the apex , and the tips of the partially expanded pinnules are strongly revolute .
The longest pinna has a length of 20 centims. , and the largest pinnules are only 4 millims. long and 3 millims. wide .
The accompanying sketch ( text-figure 1 ) , made from a specimen in the British Museum Herbarium , affords a good example of the characteristic habit of a mature frond ; there are twenty-six pinnae , the largest pinna being 44 centims. long , and the breadth of the whole leaf 61 centims. , the long petiole branches to the right and left , giving off lateral members from the upper faces of its two recurved arms in a scorpioid manner .
The axis of each pinna is winged in the basal portion , and the laminar border passes up gradually into the deeply pinnatified lamina , of which the ultimate linear segments are more or less falcate in form , tapering slightly to a blunt apex with a small median depression .
The pinnules increase in size from the base of each pinna , and towards the middle reach a length of about 4 centims. ; their margins are slightly revolute , especially near the blunt apex ( figs. 13,14 , and 16 , Plate 18 ) ; there is a well-marked midrib extending almost to the tip of each segment .
The lateral veins are given off at a wide angle , and usually bifurcate close to their point of origin .
Anastomoses between adjacent lateral veins are fairly common ( fig. 23 , A. , Plate 18 ) , especially near the midrib , where they give rise , to areolae not unlike the characteristic meshes on either side of the midrib in a pinnule of WThe fairly regular radial series of areolae in the upper part of the portion of lamina represented in fig. 23 , B , S , marks the position of a sorus , the central plexus of vascular tissue being situated at the base of the receptacle which bore the sporangia .
The frequent anastomoses of the veins seem to have been overlooked in previous descriptions ; it is a fact of some importance in the comparison of recent and fossil species .
Hooker and Bauer refer to the recticulum below each sorus , hut speak of the veins generally as free , # and a figure illustrating the venation in a recent workf in which the species is dealt with , represents the veins as free .
In the two " nature prints " of Matonia pectinata in Ettingshausen'sJ ' Farnkrauter der Jetztwelt ' the veins are seen to be partially anastomosed .
The venation may be described as a combination of the Nervatio Tceniopteridisand N. Doodyce .
S Fig. 1 .
|| Matonia pectinata , R. Br .
From a specimen in the British Museum Herbarium ( one-fifth not .
size ) .
Drawn by M. Seward .
The sori of Matonia pectinata have been described by several writers , one of the more recent accounts being by Professor ZeillerU in an important paper " Sir les Affinites du Genre Laccopteris " The annulus is usually spoken of as complete and * * * S * Hooker and Bauer ( 68 ) , p. 45 .
t Krasser ( 96 ) , Plate 17 , fig. 9 .
\ Ettingshausen , C. von ( 65 ) , Plate 155 , fig. 11 , and Plate 157 , fig. 10 .
S Luerssen ( 89 ) , p. 12 , figs. 7 and 19 .
|| My thanks are due to the University Press for the loan of this process-block .
U Zeiller ( 85 .
) AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
oblique , but an examination of several sporangia has convinced me that the annulus is incomplete , the well-defined dark-walled cells never extending completely round the sporangium ( figs. 18-20 , Plate 18 ) .
One striking feature as regards the occurrence of the sori is that all fronds appear to be fertile , and practically every pinnule hears one or more groups of sporangia .
In fig. 7 , Plate 17 , most of the short segments are seen to bear two sori , which appear as slight circular projections near the base of each pinnule ; in many of these young segments there are other sori nearer the apex of the lamina , which are hidden by the strongly recurved tips of the pinnules ( fig. 13 , Plate 18 ) .
In most cases the sori on each pinnule are few in number , frequently only one sorus on each segment , and this occurs on the lower side of the midrib close to the base .
There may be as many as seven sori on a segment on the same side of the midrib , but usually the number is less , and the sporangial groups occur at irregular intervals on the lower face of the lamina , either above or below the mid-rib ( fig. 14 , Plate 18 ) .
The sori are circular in form , approximately 9 millims. in diameter , and consist of 5-11 large sporangia sessile on a central columnar receptacle , which spreads out into an umbrella-shaped indusium , with its incurved margin tucked in below the ring of sporangia ( fig. 17 , Plate 18 ; fig. 41 , Plate 20 ) .
When the sporangia are ripe the indusium is detached , leaving a projecting stump of the circular receptacle .
The whole indusiate sorus is readily separated from its pinnule by the insertion of a needle , leaving a slight circular depression on the lamina with the remains of the receptacle as a button-like projection ( fig. 14 , Plate 18 ) .
These details are of some importance from the point of view of the comparison of recent and fossil fronds , especially as illustrating the difficulty of deciding whether a naked fossil sorus was originally indusiate .
The annulus consists of prominent brown-walled cells , and is oblique and incomplete ; each sporangium contains about 64 tetrahedral spores .
Fig. 20 , Plate 18 , represents a surface view of a sorus of eight sporangia , arranged round the basal stump to which the indusium was originally attached , and in fig. 19 two sporangia are seen edgewise ; in both these drawings the oblique nature of the annulus is clearly demonstrated .
In fig. 18 we have two views of the same sporangium ; in fig. 18 , A , the cells of the annulus are seen to extend to the narrow end of the sporangium , but after passing obliquely over the crest the annulus is continued for a short distance only down the opposite side , as shown in fig. 18 , B. B. Internal Structure .
a. Rhizome .
The appearance presented by a transverse section of the rhizome may be either as represented in fig. 8 , Plate 17 , or in fig. 9 ; in the former section the vascular tissue occurs in the form of two annular steles separated from one another by parenchyVOL .
CXCI.----B .
matous ground-tissue , the centre of the stem being occupied by parenchyma ; in the latter section the axial ground tissue is replaced by a strand of xylem surrounded by a band of phloem tissue .
Botli types of structure ( figs. 8 and 9 ) are frequently met with in examining different portions of a stem , and one or other type represents the characteristic structural arrangement in the rhizome of The peripheral portion of the stem consists of a band of dark-brown elongated " bast " !
cells , without intercellular spaces , and with simple pits in the walls and occasional transverse septa .
The outermost cells have somewhat thinner walls , and pass outwards into long multi-cellular hairs , which cover the rhizome with a dense brown felt .
In several of the stem sections the peripheral tissue was found to have been partially destroyed by a fungus , hyphse being abundant in the cell cavities .
Towards the interior of the stem the peripheral strengthening tissue passes into ordinary parenchyma .
Each of the two annular gamosteles consists of a central ring of xylem surrounded by a band of phloem , and enclosed by an external and internal pericycle and endodermis .
The endodermal layer is easily identified by the regular form of the cells , which have thinner walls than the neighbouring ground-tissue elements ; the radial walls are slightly brown in colour , and easily torn in the process of cutting sections of the stem ( c. , fig. 10 , Plate 17 ) .
The pericycle consists of a single layer of cells , followed by narrow protophloem elements ( .
, figs. 10 , 24 , and 37 ) , beyond which there are two or three rows of large sieve-tubes , with oblique ends and numerous sieve-plates on their lateral walls ( .
, figs. 10 , 24 , and 37 ) .
The scalariform tracheids of the xylem have small groups of parenchyma associated with them , as seen in figs. 10 , 24 , 28 , 34 , and 37 ; the parenchymatous tissue stands out conspicuously as a deeply stained irregular reticulum in the section through the apical region of a rhizome , shown in fig. 28 , Plate 19 .
The inner margin of the outer steal is characterised by a regular crenulate form ( figs. 8 , 9 , 11 , and 37 ) , and in each bay there is a well-defined group of protoxylem tracheids .
The structure of the outer steal and the position of three protoxylem groups , , are clearly shown in the photograph , fig. 37 , Plate 20 .
In the comparatively small outer steal in fig. 8 , Plate 17 , there are ten protoxylem groups , while the larger vascular ring of fig. 9 has sixteen initial strands .
The inner annular steal ( figs. 8 , 9 , 10 ) , agrees with the outer in being enclosed internally and externally by a pericycle and endodermis , but the xylem is rather broader , and the inner margin has not the crenulated form characteristic of the larger steal .
There is a single group of protoxylem in the inner steal ( px .
, figs. 10 , 24 , 28 ) , but this is not always very distinct in sections of the older portions of a rhizome .
In transverse sections of the rhizome near the apical region , where the elements are not fully developed , the protoxylem is easily recognised ( Plate 19 , fig. 28 , px .
)as a small group of two or three thick-walled tracheids , slightly to one side of the * I am indebted to my friend , Mr. Pearson , of Cains College , for assistance in the preparation of sections .
t The term " bast " is here used in the old sense , as employed by HAP .
Eitr .
ANDT in his ' Physiologische Pflanzenanatomie .
' AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTlNATA .
long axis of the steal , as seen in a transverse section .
The shape of the inner steal varies in different regions of the stem ; between the leaves it has the form of a circular or oval band ( figs. 8-10 ) , but near the point of origin of a leaf the continuity of the .
cylinder is broken ( figs. 11 and 12 , Plate 17 ) , and in the immediate neighbourhood of a leaf the form may be as represented in fig. 24 , Plate 19 .
The latter figure shows very clearly the structure of the steal , the large sieve-tubes ( .
) , the narrow and darker external phloem elements ( .
) , the pericycle and endodermis ( e. ) , and the xylem parenchyma .
The axial region of the stem , as seen in figs. 8 and 10 , is occupied by thick-walled parenchymatous cells , with small intercellular spaces , but in the stem section , as shown in figs. 9 , 11 , 12 , and 24 , there is a strand of solid vascular tissue of concentric structure , constituting a third steal enclosed by a pericycle and endodermis .
The size of this central steal varies considerably ; it is unusually large in fig. 9 , and in fig. 12 the number of tracheids is considerably less .
The structure of the axial steal is more clearly shown in fig. 34 , Plate 20 ; the tissues agree with those in the annular steles , and there are a few xylem parenchymatous cells between some of the tracheids as in the other steles ( the dark cells in fig. 28 , Plate 19 ) .
No protoxylem elements have been recognised in the axial vascular strand .
The anatomy of the stem apex has not been completely made out , two apices having been sacrificed in unsuccessful attempts to obtain a series of microtome sections .
In the diagrammatic sketch shown in fig. 39 , Plate 20 , which represents an approximately median section , the blunt growing-point is seen to have a broadly depressed apex , with a leaf-bud immediately behind it appearing as a slight protuberance at P. In this section the three steles extend to the apical region , and appear to be merged in a common meristem .
The largest steal splits close to its origin into two annular steles and a central strand remains undivided as a small downward prolongation of the inner annular steal .
The leaf-bud close to the apex ( P , fig. 39 ) is supplied by the outer and in part by the inner annular steal .
In the apical region of the stem , the multicellular hairs consist of thin-walled cells , with large and conspicuous nuclei ; in slightly older hairs the basal region consists of a few thin-walled living cells ( m , fig. 32 , Plate 19 ) , while the greater portion of each hair is composed of a few long and narrow dead cells with brown walls ( fig. 32 ) .
The photograph reproduced in fig. 29 , Plate 19 , shows the appearance of an approximately median section through the apex of a stout rhizome .
The short asymmetrical cone occupying the middle of the apical depression consists apparently of two or three large cells , but it is impossible to speak with certainty as to the existence of one single apical cell or of more than one initial element ; in all probability , however , there is a single three-sided apical cell .
This point can only be determined by a serial examination of microtome sections , for which material is not at present available .
By a succession of radial walls , narrow segments are cut off parallel to the inclined sides of 2 a 2 an apical cell these are followed by tangential walls which determine the limits of the stelar and extra-stelar tissues ; in the procambium strands numerous narrow elements are cut off from the meristem cells by a succession of tangential walls , as shown in the right-hand arm of the outer steal .
The disposition of the cell-walls in the apical meristem appears to agree with the development in gamostelic polystelic stems , as described by Van Tieghem .
f From the common apical meristem the two annular steles and the axial strand are gradually differentiated ; the xylem parenchyma standing out prominently as dark cell-rows a short distance behind the apex .
A figure of the apex of Pterisaquilina , given by Hofmeister , J bears a fairly close resemblance to fig. 29 ; the summit of the stem has the same blunt form with a median depression .
Fig. 36 represents the stelar tissue , as seen in a transverse section just behind the stem apex ; the outer steal presents the appearance of having been pulled towards one side where it is narrower , and a similar outward extension is seen in the second steal ; the axial strand of xylem and phloem ( iii ) is here seen to be in direct connection with the second steal .
The asymmetrical form of the annular steles is due to the presence of a leaf-bud immediately behind the apex .
In the regions a , a of the steles i and ii the tissue consists of parenchymatous meristem in which the elements are not yet differentiated ; it is this portion which is extending outwards to form the vascular system of a leaf-bud .
The xylem parenchyma stands out conspicuously , as anastomosing deeply stained rows of cells , throughout the greater portion of both steles .
In the transverse section of the second steal and the axial vascular strand shown in fig. 28 , Plate 19 , the deeply stained xylem parenchyma is very conspicuous ; sections cut near the apical region of a rhizome , as in fig. 28 , illustrate very clearly the connected tissue-system formed by the parenchyma ( amylom ) which traverses the xylem .
The transverse section diagrammatically represented in fig. 38 , Plate 20 , was cut as near to the apex of the stem as possible ; the triangular arrangement of the cells in the centre suggests the presence of the usual form of apical cell , and to one side of the apex a few of the young filamentous hairs are seen at h. We may hope , to obtain valuable evidence as to the origin of the mature stelar structure of Matonia when young plants are available for investigation .
The study of the apical region as a guide to phylogeny is of little importance , S and we can only hazard a guess as to the development of the steles from a simpler type of stem ; it is probable that after the formation of a single annular steal in the young plant the ring * * * S * Klein , L. ( 84 ) .
Klein concludes that all dorsiventral fern stems , except Pteris possess a single three-sided apical cell , as appears to be the case in Matonia Plate 20 , fig. 38 ; vide also Bower ( 89 ) pp. 318 , et seq.~\ t Van Tieghem ( 91 ) , pp. 773 , 774 .
I Hofmeister ( 63 ) , Plates 30 and 31 .
S Cf .
Scott ( 94 ) , p. 472 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
divided , and split off a second cylinder ; but it is reasonable to hope that young plants may be obtained which will afford important data from the point of view of stelar evolution , not only in Mcitonia , but as regards the phylogeny of the type from a primitive axial steal .
b. Root .
In transverse sections of the stem , roots are frequently met with in different stages of development as slight protuberances on the edge of the outer annular steal ( fig. 9 , fig. 11 , R ) , or as slender vascular strands enclosed in a sclerenchymatous sheath passing in a slightly oblique radial direction through the cortex of the stem ( fig. 9 ) .
Two very young roots are shown in the diagrammatic section of the stem apex , represented in fig. 39 , R i. , and R ii .
The steal of the root is triarch , and the cortex consists of a few thin-walled cells enclosed in a dark brown band of schlerenchyma ; in the outer layers of sclerous elements the cell lumina are almost obliterated by the thickening of the walls ( fig. 42 , Plate 20 ) .
In some sections of roots traces of thin-walled cells are seen external to the brown sclerous sheath ; these are , no doubt , remnants of a piliferous layer .
The roots always arise from the outer annular steal at points immediately opposite a protoxylem group ; but they appear to be developed equally on all sides of the steal , if , indeed , they are not more numerous on the upper than on the lower side of the steal .
The number of roots is small , but they are more abundant in the immediate neighbourhood of a leaf .
In tangential sections of the rhizome , outgoing roots are occasionally met with in slightly oblique transverse section , surrounded by three or four layers of dark brown sclerous cells .
c. Leaf .
Part of a transverse section of a pinnule is shown in fig. 26 ; the most striking feature is the peculiar form of the lower epidermal cells : they have thick outer walls , which are bulged outwards in the form of irregular rounded knobs .
These peculiar cells appear as small crystal-like globules when the under surface of a leaf-segment is examined through a low-power lens .
The upper epidermis consists of a regular row of cells with comparatively thick outer walls ; the mesophyll is made up of a loose tissue in which the intercellular spaces are much larger towards the lower surface of the leaf , but there is no regular palisade arrangement .
The surface of the parenchymatous cells in the spongy mesophyll next the lower epidermis is studded with numerous minute rods ( fig. 27 , Plate 19 ) , such as characterise , the leaf-tissue of the Marattiaceae , and some other ferns .
These delicate outgrowths were originally described by Ltjerssen# as cuticular threads , but more recent writers , * * Luerssen ( 73 ) .
/ Mangin , Hohnel , # and others , regard them as pectin products of the middle lamella .
Poirault'I ' mentions these " batonnets intercellulaires " as being unusually developed in Matonia pectinata .
The stomata are confined to the lower surface , the guard-cells being on a level with the inner wall of the epidermal cells ( figs. 26 and 27 , Plate 19 ) .
Fig. 21 , represents a surface view of a stoma in which the outer portions of the surrounding epidermal cells are in focus ; in b the same group of cells is seen at a lower level , with the guard-cells in focus .
The form of the epidermal cells is more clearly seen in fig. 22 , drawn from the epidermis of a young leaf ; the initial cell of a stoma is cut off by a curved wall from an epidermal cell , and this forms the stoma mother-cell .
The veins consist of a very few tracheids , and some at least appear to be collateral in structure ; they are enclosed in a ring of fairly thick-walled cells , and each vein is succeeded above and below by two or three mechanical elements forming a simple type of I-shaped girder , stretching across the mesophyll of the leaf ( fig. 26 , Plate 19 ) .
There is scarcely any phloem in the smaller veins , but each is surrounded by a ring of fairly large parenchymatous cells .
The margins of the pinnules are strengthened by a strand of thick-walled fibres .
The chief point of interest in the structure of the midrib is the presence of an arc of fibrous elements in the lower portion of the phloem region , as seen in transverse section , next the xylem parenchyma ; a single group of fibres also occurs in the middle of the upper portion of the midrib .
In a transverse section of a partially expanded pinnule , the edges of the lamina are seen to be strongly recurved ( figs. 15 and 16 ) , reminding one of the numerous Alethopteroid segments met with in the calcareous nodules of the Lower Coal seams .
A more highly magnified portion of a young pinnule is shown in fig. 15 , B ; the cells of the upper epidermis ( Ep. ) form a conspicuous layer of radially elongated elements considerably larger at this stage than the epidermal cells of the lower surface .
The axis of the pinna is traversed by a broad V-shaped steal , from which the lateral veins are given off on either side ( figs. 15 , A , and 16 , Plate 18 ) .
Fig. 40 , Plate 20 , represents a vertical section through the tip of a young pinnule ; the growing apex is occupied by a large dome-shaped cell .
The appearance of the sori in a somewhat older pinnule is diagrammatically represented in fig. 16 ; the indusium margin , which consists of a large-celled epidermis , is tightly tucked in underneath the young sporangia , and a group of short tracheids occurs ( figs. 16 and 17 ) at the base of the columnar receptacle. .
The sporangia of a sorus are always found to be approximately of the same size , and there is not the association of young and old sporangia which characterises the polypodiaceous sorus^ ( figs. 13 and 17 ) .
* Hohnel , F. von ( 77 ) , p. 507 .
t Poirault ( 94 ) .
X Some young sori have been placed in the hands of Professor Bower , who informs me that a study of the development of the sporangia reveals nothing of any special interest ; but an account of the early stages in the growth of the sorus will be given in a forthcoming memoir by Professor Bower .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
The individual sporangia appear to be attached to the short receptacle by about two cells .
The spores are tetrahedral in shape , and show distinctly the usual three-rayed marking on the surface ; they possess a thick exine , enclosing food granules of various size .
The appearance of the spore-contents presents a striking resemblance to the thin vesicular bodies frequently met with in fossil macrospores , which have been described as prothalloid cells ; it is not improbable that , in some cases , these so-called cells in the interior of fossil spores should be regarded as swollen cell-contents .
The spores have a diameter of approximately '07 millim. ; the sporangia are about '5 millim. long and '33 millim. broad , rather larger than those of , L. , species of Todect and Gleichenia , agreeing more closely in size with those of Moliria Cajfrorum , Dasv .
, and Schizcea pusillci , Pursh .
The structure of the petiole need not he described in detail .
Fig. 31 illustrates the general arrangement of the hypoderm , ground-tissue and stelar-tissue ; the flattened appearance of some of the ground-tissue of this section is due to a transverse shrinking of the petiole .
The steal has the form of a broad U -shaped band , with the ends of the two arms bent inwards in an almost horizontal direction , with the tips bent downwards and outwards as shown in the photograph .
The inner margin of the steal is crenulate as in the outer annular steal of the stem , and each " bay " is occupied by a group of protoxylem elements .
There are usually about thirty groups of spiral tracheids in the steal of a petiole .
A portion of the steal is more clearly shown in fig. 25 , Plate 19 ; the endodermis and pericycle are identical with those of the stem , but there is a distinct strand of loose parenchyma in contact with each group of spiral tracheids .
The occurrence of these loose parenchymatous strands next the protoxylem groups of ferns has often been referred to by different writers .
Russo w* proposed the term " Liickenparenchym " for the parenchymatous cells filling the space produced by the tearing of the tissues near the protoxylem , and TerletzkiI ' refers to the same tissue as " Stumpfzellen-Strange " in Pteris , L. , Osmunda , and medullaris , Sw .
At F in fig. 25 the bend of the stelar band is occupied by a group of strong stereome elements , which occur in the phloem region , and a few larger thick-walled cells are found in the ground-tissue just above the endodermis ( fig. 25 , Plate 19 ) .
In the angle of the sharp bend of the petiole steal fig. 31 ) there is another band of fibres abutting on the xylem parenchyma .
In fig. 30 , A , Plate 19 , a young petiole is shown in side view , the base is enclosed in a mass of the rhizome hairs , and similar hairs are attached to the concave inner face below the overhanging apex of the frond .
A front view of the same frond is represented in fig. 30 , B , and at C and I ) diagrammatic sections through the regions * Russo w ( 72 ) , p. 101 .
t Terletzki ( 84 ) , pp. 463 , 494 , Plate 25 , fig. 10 .
Pf .
Bary ( 84 ) , p. 346 , who mentions the occurrence of Liickenparenchym in species of Asplenium , as well as in other genera ; also Strasburger ( 91 ) , p. 444 .
indicated by ab , cd in fig. B. Section C shows the tip of the frond clasped by the edges of the grooved surface of the leaf-stalk , and in section D the face of the groove is seen to he clothed with hairs .
In both sections , C and D , the shaded portion of the drawing between the steal and the edge of the leaf marks the position of meri-stematic tissue in an active state of growth .
In cutting a series of transverse sections through the tip of a young frond like that in fig. 30 , Plate 19 , we first meet with indications of the steal in the form of regular meristematic cell-rows occupying the centre of the apical region ; passing further down a few thin-walled tracheal elements appear in the form of a crenulate group , foreshadowing the characteristic outline of the mature steal ; on the posterior side of Fig. 2 .
tKSkjZ ?
2 .
yyny ?
Diagram illustrating the division of the single petiolar steal into the vascular strands of the pinnae .
the frond axis , at a slightly lower level , the undifferentiated meristem forms an elliptical ring of tissue with a stout band of tracheids on the posterior side .
At a still lower level the anterior margin of the meristem band curves inwards in the form of two arms representing the first appearance of the incurved bands of fig. 30 , c , which gradually pass over into the revolute ends of the stelar band .
In the text-figure 2 , a series of drawings is reproduced of a succession of transverse sections of the stelar tissues of a leaf-stalk , representing the gradual alteration in the shape of the steal in the region near the tip of the petiole , just below the point at which it breaks up into the numerous pinme .
The petiole steal gradually widens , and alters in shape until a separate U-shaped branch becomes detached ( 8 ) .
A second branch is afterwards given off , as seen in AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
section 12 , which was cut just helow the level at which the pinnae become free , and a third is nearly ready to be separated off on the left-hand side of the same section .
d. Origin of the Leaf-trace , and behaviour of the Steles the region of Branching .
The connection between the steal of a leaf-stalk and those of the rhizome is illustrated by a series of diagrams reproduced in the text-figures 3-5 .
Fig. 3 , A , represents a surface view of the outer annular steal of the stem , after the removal of the extra-stelar tissues , passing upwards into the petiole ; a gap is formed in the steal on the anterior side of the leaf-stalk , and the edges of the gap are bent inwards to form the characteristic incurved ends of the foliar steal .
Fig. 3 .
s\------ ?
Sketches illustrating the origin of the petiolar steal .
S2 , second ( inner ) annular steal of the rhizome ; Sc , scar on the edge of the gap of the inner steal ( S2 ) to which the ascending branch ( , fig. E ) was attached .
At B the piece of stem is shown in median section ; the erect branch of the outer steal is seen to be continuous with the inner annular steal ( S2 ) , the continuity of the inner steal being interrupted by a short gap ( x ) , a point below that at which the outer steal bends up into the petiole .
In a transverse section through the rhizome immediately in front of the petiole base , the two steles present the appearance shown in C , which was cut along the line ab of fig. 3 , B ; the outer steal is deeply grooved on the upper surface , and the inner steal has the form of a U. A surface view of the inner annular steal ( fig. 3 , D ) , after the removal of the outer steal , shows the gap made by the passing upwards of a portion of the steal which contributes to the formation of the meristele of the leaf .
The curved scar , Sc , on the edge of the gap marks the place where the upward branch was cut off in the process of dissecting the rhizome .
Fig. 3 , E , represents the second annular steal in side-view , with the ascending branch , b , joining on to the outer vascular ring to form the incurved edges of the petiole steal .
The ribbed appearance in the upper portion of the petiole ( afig .
3 , E ) , is due to the crenulated inner edge of the steal ; this dissection demonstrates the small share taken by the inner steal of the rhizome in supplying the vascular system of the leaf .
Fig. 4 , a , represents a series of diagrammatic sections of the stelar tissue , transverse VOL. CXCI.---B .
2 B 18G MR. A. C. SEWARD ON THE STRUCTURE to the petiole and longitudinal to the stem ; the incurved ends of the petiole steal are found to gradually unite , and finally pass downwards as a slightly curved band to unite with the inner steal of the rhizome .
The form of this downward branch , as seen at b in section 4 , corresponds with the curved scar , Sc , of fig. 3 , D , on the edge of the gap in the inner annular steal .
Fig. 4 .
@3 If\#174 ; " i 1 -Q i ii ' Diagram illustrating the origin of the petiolar vascular system from the rhizome steles , a.\#151 ; A series of longitudinal sections through the rhizome ; / 3.\#151 ; A series of transverse sections through the rhizome in the nodal region , i. and ii .
in fig. 6 , a , denote the outer and inner steles of the rhizome .
The diagrams in fig. 4 , / 3 , illustrate the behaviour of the rhizome steles in passing through a nodal region ; a transverse section through the rhizome at a immediately in front of the leaf , shows the outer annular steal almost circular in outline , and the inner annular steal in the form of a U ( section 1 ) ; in section 2 the inner steal is more widely open , and the outer steal is arched slightly upwards .
The third axial steal , which is present in this piece of stem , passes through the node without participating in the vascular supply of the leaf .
Sections 3 to 14 show the gradual arching upwards of the outer steal into the petiole , the passing downwards of the foliar steal into the second annular steal of the rhizome and the closing of the foliar gap in the latter .
The photographs 11 and 12 , Plate 17 , represent the appearance of the steles in a transverse section of the rhizome immediately in front of a leaf .
It may happen that the third steal of the rhizome becomes directly connected with the inner annular steal in the nodal region ; this is shown in the diagrams of sections in text-figure 5 and in the larger diagram , fig. 35 , Plate 20 .
Similarly , in fig. 36 , Plate 20 , the second and third steles are in direct continuity .
In section 1 , fig. 5 , taken just in front of a leaf-bud , the axial steal appears as an inward prolongation of the second annular steal ; as the annular steal opens , the connection is maintained ( section 2 ) , hut immediately behind the leaf the axial steal becomes free ( section 5 ) .
ANY ) AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
It would appear , then , that the third vascular strand may arise as an offshoot from the second annular steal near the point of origin of a leaf ( cf. fig. 36 , Plate 20 ) .
The photograph reproduced in fig. 24 , Plate 19 , shows the inner steal , and a small axial steal as seen in a transverse section of the stem just behind a leaf ; the two Fig. 5 .
g \#174 ; S i 2 3 4 S Diagrams showing the connection between the axial steal of the rhizome and the vascular system of a leaf .
broader portions of the vascular cylinder projecting into the internal ground-tissue may be regarded as the " roots " or bases of the branch which connects the second annular steal and the incurved edges of the leaf-trace .
The behaviour of the rhizome steles in the region of branching is illustrated in text , fig. 6 .
Section 1 shows the rhizome cut through along the line ab ; three steles Fig. 6 .
Diagram illustrating the behaviour of the rhizome steal in the region of branching .
( S1 , S2 , S3 ) are present .
In the sections 2-16 the steles only are drawn in outline .
The chief points of interest are the gradual flattening , constriction , and final splitting , first of the inner , and afterwards of the outer annular steal ; also the absorption of the axial steal into the widening second annular steal .
Section 17 shows the rhizome in 2 b 2 transverse section , including two pairs of steles , immediately in front of the bifurcation .
This bifurcation of the steles may be compared with a similar behaviour of stelar tissue in forking Lepidodendron stems .
In a few cases the axial steal has been found to die out gradually without becoming connected with the second steal .
Twenty-two transverse sections were cut as close together as possible , in order to follow the axial steal to its termination .
In section 1 the steal contained 10 tracheids ; in section 9 about 7 , and some of these were filled with a brown substance ; in section 12 a single tracheid remained , its cavity being filled with some brown material , probably a product of degradation ; beyond this jjoint the steal consisted exclusively of sieve-tubes and parenchyma ( as shown in fig. 33 , Plate 20 ) , and finally nothing remained but a small strand of delicate cells embedded in the thick-walled ground-tissue , and associated at its periphery with a few reticulately thickened isodiametric elements .
The existence of the brown degradation product in some of the last tracheids is , no doubt , a pathological result of the loss of function of this blindly ending vascular strand .
C. Comparison of Matonia Pectinata with other Ferns .
a. Stem .
The most striking anatomical feature in the rhizome of Matonia pectinata is the annular character of the stelar tissue , and the occurrence in some portions of the stem of a solid axial strand of xylem and phloem .
Although the published figures of fern stems in text-books have not made us familiar with the existence of an annular form of steal similar to that in Marsilia , it has long been known that this type of gamostely is by no means uncommon among ferns of different families .
In a short account of a rare Javan fern , Polypodium ( ) Horsjieldii , It .
Br .
, written in 1838 , IIobert Brown# describes the stem as possessing " a complete circle of Vasa Scalariformia separating the ligneous or fibrous vessels of the caudex into an outer cortex and inner portion .
" This structure , he adds , while not peculiar to , seems to be of rare occurrence among ferns ; it exists also in the " Caudex of zoma and Anemia .
" Yon Mohl , !
in 1845 , quotes Brown 's reference to the closed ring of vessels in these three genera .
Mettenius , one of the best among botanical anatomists , in two papers published in 1864 and 1865 , refers to a closed " vascular bundle " in Loxsoma , \ and in another place he deals at some length with the annular steles and the medullary vascular strands in other ferns .
Mettenius points out that Karsten investigated the structure of Dicksonia ( Dennstcedia ) rubiginosa , Kaulf .
, Pteris o , P. , Willd .
, and Sacco ' * Brown , R. , in Horsfield ( 38 ) , pp. 1 and 2 [ P. , R. Br .
= P. Dipteris , Blume ; Hooker and Baker ( 68 ) , p. 362 ] .
f Von Mohl ( 45 ) .
I Mettenius ( 65 ) , p. 418 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
lomci adiantoides , all of which possess annular steles and medullary strands .
He adds that in the Cyatheaceous genera the medullary bundles may branch off from the annular steal , or , as in Pterin , the axial strand may end free in the pith in the form of a fine prosenchymatous termination.# These facts are of interest in connection with the behaviour of the axial strand of Matonia , which lias been noticed in the foregoing description .
Another point of comparison is afforded by Mettenius ' description of the petiolar steal in Dennstcediabeing supplied by the outer tube and by the medullary strand in the centre of the stem .
This is analogous to the contribution made by the smaller steal of Matonia to the vascular system of the frond , which is mainly , hut not entirely , derived from the large outer steal .
Finally , Mettenius refers to the existence of an annular steal in most species of Dennstcedia ( a section of the genus Dicksonia ) , Microlepia ( a section of ) , Ilypolepis , and species of Phegopteris(a section of Polypod also in P ter is Thunb .
( = P. Vespertilionisand P. aurita ) , and Poly podium It .
Br.'I ' We find subsequent references to annular gamosteles in I)e Baby 's ' Comparative Anatomy , | where several genera are quoted as having a tubular vascular system with a relatively small foliar gap at each node .
Yan Tieghem and DouliotS compare the closed ring of Dennstcedia and other ferns with the gamostelic structure of Auricula j We see , then , that the annular form of steal usually associated with and Pilularia , and described by Leclerc du Sablon|| in embryonic stems of and other genera , is found also in the adult rhizomes of several ferns , notably in members of the Cyatheaceae and Polypodiacese ; it occurs , too , in the genus Loxsoma .
The occurrence of one or more axial strands of xylem enclosed by phloem in Dicksonia ( Dennstcedia ) rubiginosa and other ferns affords a close parallel with the Matonia type of structure .
In .Dicksonia rubiginosa the outer steal differs from that of Matonia in having the protoxylem groups in small bays , or rather in loops of the xylem band , towards the outer surface , and not on the inner edge as in Matonia .
Similarly , in Dicksonia clavallioides , B. Br .
, the protoxylem is slightly internal in the xylem band and near the outer surface .
In Davallia Speluncce , Baker , D. striyosa , Swartz , Pteris incisa , Thunb .
, and Hypolepis tenuifolia , Bernh .
, the breadth of the annular steal is much less regular than in Matonia pectinata .
In Loxsoma , on the other hand , the protoxylem groups are said to be indistinguishable.il In the genus * * * S * Mettenius ( 64 ) , p. 502 .
t Ibid. , p. 543 , Plate 7 ( figures of Dennstcedia , \amp ; c. ) .
The nomenclature adopted is that of the Synopsis Filicum[Hooker and Baker ( 68 ) ] .
X De Bary ( 84 ) , p. 284 .
Vide also Tansley ( 96 ) , p. 140 , Dangeard ( 89 ) , and Sadebeck ( 79 ) , p. 282 .
S Van Tieghem and Douliot ( 86 ) , p. 313 .
|| Leclerc du Sablon ( 90 ) .
U For this fact I am indebted to Mr. Gwynne-Vaughan .
referred to by Brown as possessing a closed vascular ring , there is no phloem on the inner side of the xylem .
On the whole , perhaps , rubiginosa approaches most closely to the structure of Matonia , hut our knowledge of the anatomy of gamostelic ferns is far from satisfactory , and we do not possess the necessary data for a detailed comparison of Matonia pectinata , as regards the anatomy of the stem and the mode of origin of the leaf steles , with other genera having a somewhat similar structure .
Work now in progress hy Messrs. Gwynne-Vaughan , Boodle , and others should yield results of special value from the point of view of fern anatomy and as regards the systematic value of particular structural features .
It is , however , safe to conclude that the annular form of steal is not of great systematic importance , but so far as our comparison has gone it would seem that the Cyatheaceae present a closer agreement than other families with Matonia , as regards the stelar anatomy .
In addition to the difference in the position of the protoxylem groups , there are other points , such as the larger size of the sieve-tubes and the greater breadth of the phloem , in which DicJcsoniarubiginosa differs from Matonia .
There is a striking resemblance , as Mr. A. G. Tansley reminds me , between the third ( axial ) steal of Matonia and the " cord of metaxylem derived from the inner margin of the cylindrical steal " of Selaginella Icevigata , Baker , var .
, Spr.# The occurrence of multicellular hairs on the rhizome instead of the more usual paleae is a feature worthy of notice .
Bussowf describes hairs as common in the Cyatheaceae and Hymenophyllaceae , and as occurring also in members of the Osmundaceae and Schizaceae , but rare among Polypodiaceous ferns .
Goebler| mentions the multicellular hairs of Lyg odium ja Sw .
; and PeantlS speaks of them in species of Lygodium , Schizcea , and Anemia .
Poirault|| quotes examples of some Polypodiaceae in which the rhizome bears long bairs .
As regards the sieve-tubes of Matonia , we find a similar form in Cyatheaceous general ; also in Osmunda*'* and other ferns .
The occurrence of hairs and the structure of the sieve-tubes , with numerous lateral plates , are not at variance with the comparison already made with the Cyatheaceae .
/ 3 .
Leaf .
The presence of a single petiolar steal is a feature of no great value from a comparative point of view ; it is met with in representatives of the Osmundaceae , * * * S ** * Gibson ( 94 ) , p. 194 .
t Russow ( 72 ) , p. 85 .
I Goebler ( 86 ) , p. 453 , Plate 11 , fig. 20 .
S Prantl ( 81 ) , p. 37 .
|| Poirault ( 94 ) , p. 162 .
U Thomae ( 86 ) , Plate 8 , fig. 8 .
** Zenetti ( 95 ) , Plate 2 , fig. 5 , and Janczewski ( 82 ) , Plate 3 , fig. 6 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
Hymenophyllaceae , Schizaceae , Gleicheniaceae , and Polypodiaceae.^ PreslI long ago expressed the view that the form of the leaf " bundle " is rarely useful in distinguishing genera , but in Gleicheniaceae and Cyatheaceae the shape of the single vascular hand is fairly characteristic .
The Matoniapetiolar steal resembles that of several species of Cyatheaceous ferns .
The occurrence of parenchyma among the xylem tracheids is another character shared by Matonia and the Cyatheaceae ; hut this tissue is found also in the steles of many other ferns .
The existence of fibrous cells in the steal has been noticed in Trichomanes , Anemia , Gleichenand in species of In the description of the petiolar steal of Matonia , reference was made to the conspicuous strands of loose thin cells accompanying the protoxylem groups .
Similar strands are especially well marked in the vascular tissue of Cyatheaceus ferns ; S but they occur also in Osmunda\\and other genera .
y. Root .
The triarch structure of the roots suggests a comparison with some Cyatheaceae^ , but the same form of root cylinder occurs in species of Helminthostacliys , and Todea , and in species of Gleicheniaceae and Hymenophyllaceae.## Enough has been said to show that Matonia has many points of contact with various fern families , but the sum of resemblances is the greatest between this genus and the Cyatheaceae .
Several writers have drawn comparisons between the sori of Matonia and those of the Cyatheaceae , but neither in this respect nor in the anatomical structure is there sufficient similarity to render advisable the inclusion of the Malayan genus among the Cyatheaceae .
The facts of anatomical structure lend support to the retention of the Matonineae as a distinct sub-division of the Filices , represented by a single genus and two species , \#151 ; isolated surviving ferns of a long line of extinct species , which flourished in the Jurassic and Cretaceous epochs .
We may next briefly consider some of the fossil representatives of the Matonineae , paying special attention to their geological and geographical range .
D. Fossil Matonine^e .
The statement that the Matonineae were well represented during the Mesozoic epoch rests on evidence derived in part from the nature of the sori and sporangia , and in part from the characteristic habit of certain fossil fronds .
* Thomae ( 86 ) , p. 14 .
t Presl ( 47 ) , p. 2 .
% De Bary ( 84 ) , p. 447 .
S Thomae ( 86 ) , p. 126 .
|| Terletzki ( 84 ) , p. 494 .
U v. Tieghem ( 70 ) , p. 70 .
** Poirault ( 94 ) , p. 135 .
Vide also De Bary ( 84 ) , p. 363 .
As a rule comparisons based on venation characters and on the form of the frond are of secondary importance , and in some cases practically valueless .
In Matonia pectinata , however , we have a frond of exceptional form , at least among living ferns .
Some species of Gleicheniahear leaves having an apparently similar habit , but on careful comparison the fronds of this genus may he distinguished by the characteristic forking of their pinnae .
The New Zealand species represented in fig. 7 , Gleichenia Cunninghami , Hew .
, * hears a superficial resemblance to that of Matonia pectinata , hut the branching of the pinnae is sufficiently obvious to render it distinct Fig. 7 .
Gleichenia Cunninghami , Hew .
, from a specimen in the Cambridge Herbarium .
( Photograph by Mr. Edwin Wilson .
) from the latter species , in which the leaf-stalk appears to bend over at the summit in the form of two scorpioid cymes , t The anastomosing veins below the Matonia sorus and the more falcate pinnules are other features\#151 ; apart from the structure of the sori \#151 ; which furnish additional differences.| Under the various species to which reference is made in the following list , no * From a specimen in the Cambridge Herbarium , gathered on the Cheviot Hills , Middle Island , N.Z. , at a height of 1000 feet , f Zeiller ( 85 ) , p. 21 .
| [ Since the above was written my attention has been drawn by Mr. Baker to a new species.of Polypodium , P. palmatopedatum , Baker ( Kew Herbarium , No. 353* ) , recently obtained by Dr. Henry from Yunnan , China .
The habit of the frond is very similar to that of Matonia pectinata , but the lamina is divided into lanceolate segments bearing large oval sporangia on each side of the main veins ( Baker ; Kew Bulletin , 1898 , p. 232 .
] AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
attempt has been made to append a complete synonymy ; but to prevent confusion a few synonyms are given in the case of species which have been described under different names , and have not hitherto been considered identical .
The evidence on which I have ventured to reduce the number of specific names has been furnished by a comparative examination of various type-specimens in the British and other Museums .
To discuss in detail the systematic position of all known fossil fronds which might reasonably be included in an enumeration of possible representatives of Matoninese , would involve a lengthy and tedious examination of numerous diagnoses published during the last seventy years .
Solms-Laubach# in his text-book speaks of the genera Laccopteris , Andriania , Clathropteris , Dictyophyllum as leptosporangiate ferns , which agree in certain characters with both the Gleicheniaceae and Cyatheacese .
Gutbiera , and Carolopleris may be added to this list as closely allied genera .
Schumann !
and other writers express similar views as to the systematic position of some or all of these- Mesozoic genera .
In a Fossil Flora of Jurassic rocks from the neighbourhood of Cracow , RaciborskiJ includes the genera Laccopteris and Microdictyon in the family Matoninese .
The genera Selenocarpus , S Clathropteris , and need not he discussed , as they do not present so close a resemblance to Matonia as do other types , such as Laccopteris and Matonidium .
The genus Andriania , \ instituted in 1843 , by Braun , for a Bhsetic fern from Bayreuth , bears a striking resemblance to Matonia as regards the form of the frond , but the sori and veins differ from those of the recent species .
Laccopteris .
This genus was instituted by Presl in 18381F for some fragments of fern fronds from the Keuper of Strullendorf ; the circular sori\#151 ; which are represented in Presl 's figure as consisting of five sporangia\#151 ; and the veins are compared with those of Gleichenia .
The type-species is L. elegans , and the generic characters are given by Presl as follows :\#151 ; " Frons pinnata , nervi primarii excurrentes , nervi secundarii dichotomi ramulis furcatis simplicibusve , mediis in medio dorso soriferis .
Sori biseriales , foveae semiglo-bosae immersi , e sporangis compositi .
" In 1841 Goppert## described several well-preserved impressions of ferns from the * * * S ** * Solms-Laubach ( 91 ) , p. 154 .
t Schumann ( 94 ) , p. 174 .
\ Raciborski ( 94 ) , p. 39 .
S Schenk ( 67 ) , p. 89 , Plate 22 .
|| Braun ( 43 ) , Plate 10 .
Vide also Schenk ( 67 ) , p. 87 , Plates 21 and 22 ; Andrae ( 53 ) , Plate 7 , figs. 1-3 .
11 In Sternberg ( 38 ) , p. 115 , Plate 32 , fig. 8 .
** Goppert ( 41 ) , Lief .
1 and 2 , Pis .
5 and 6 .
VOL. CXCI.---B .
Lias of Bayreuth , which he referred to Presl 's genus and compared them with recent Gleicheniaceae .
Goppert 's figures illustrate very clearly the habit of the frond , and the position of the annulus of the sporangia is fairly well shown .
A more detailed description of the genus is given by Schenk# in his 'Fossil Flora ' of 1867 , in which Presl 's species , L. elegans , is re-described , and two new Rhsetic species instituted , L. Gopperti , and L. Milnsteri .
The lateral veins of the pinnules are represented as dichotomosing and not anostomosing , and the character of the sorus and sporangia is fully described .
ScHiMPERf subsequently includes L. Gopperti as a synonym of Presl 's species , L. elegans .
Schenk compares the fructification with that of the Gleicheniacese , but the habit of the frond he recognises as practically identical with that of Matonia pectinata .
The very close affinity between the Mesozoic fern Laccopteris and the recent Matonia , was , however , first demonstrated by Zeiller he showed that not only in the form of the frond , but in the size , disposition , and structure of the sporangia and spores , the two genera are practically identical .
The circular sori of Laccopteris seem to have been without an indusium , and another dif-erence is noticed in the absence of any anastomosing of the veins in the basal portions of the pinnules in the fossil fronds , such as occurs below the sori in Matonia .
The frond represented in text , fig. 8 , from the Keuper of Bayreuth is no doubt Laccopteris Gopperti , SchenkS ( = L. elegans , Presl ) ; the venation is unfortunately very imperfectly present , but in a few pinnules enough can be seen to show undoubted lateral anastomosing of the veins , as shown in the slightly enlarged drawing of a portion of an ultimate segment .
The presence of anastomoses of the veins connects still more closely Laccopteris and Matonia .
This type of venation , not previously associated with Zac-copteris , is identical with that of Brongniart 's genus , || and but slightly different from that of Saporta 's genus MicroI and ## of Debey and Ettingshausen .
Without examining the type-specimens of Goppert or Schenk it would be rash to assume that the venation characters of Laccopteris have been incorrectly described ; hut the occurrence of anastomosing veins in a frond , which is undoubtedly identical with one of Schenk 's species , leads one to incline to the view that there is no essential difference between the fossil ferns\#151 ; mostly of Rhaetic age\#151 ; referred to Laccopteris and the Jurassic species placed by some writers in the genus Phlebopteris.ft * * * S ** * Schenk ( 67 ) , p. 93 , Pis .
22-25 .
There are some good specimens of these species in the Goppert collection of fossil plants in the Breslau Museum .
t Schimper ( 69 ) , p. 580 .
\ Zeiller ( 85 ) .
S Gf .
Schenk ( 67 ) , Plate 23 .
|| Brongniart ( 28 ) , p. 372 , and ( 49 ) , p. 30 .
U Saporta ( 73 ) , p. 305 , Plate 33 , figs. 2-7 .
** Debey and Ettingshausen ( 59 ) , p. 26 , Plate 3 .
ft [ Since writing the above I have examined additional specimens of Laccopteris in the Berlin Geological Museum , and found the veins distinctly anastomosed .
] AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
To discuss in detail the question of generic identity of certain Mesozoic ferns would take us beyond the primary aim of this paper , which is to mention such fossil species as may reasonably be included in the Matoninese .
In view of the identity in the form of the fronds and the close agreement as regards the sori , sporangia , spores and anastomosing veins in L. elegctns , I propose to include the species hitherto referred to Laccopteris , and those assigned by several authors to , under the former generic name .
In this more comprehensive sense the genus Laccopteris may be defined as follows : Fig. 8 .
Laccopteris elegans ( Presl ) .
From a specimen ( No. 500 ) in the British Museum , Lower Keuper , Bayreuth .
Frond not .
size ; pinnule x 3 .
( Drawn by Miss G. M. Woodwakd .
) Fronds pedate , in habit like those of Matonia pectinata , R. Br .
, with pinnate or pinnatifid pinnae ; ultimate segments linear in form , with a well-marked midrib giving off numerous secondary veins which branch dichotomously , and are in places connected by short lateral anastomoses .
Sori* circular , forming a single row on each side of the midrib ; the sporangia usually few in number , from 5 to 14 , with an oblique annulus and tetrahedral spores .
* The sori of Laccopteris have been hitherto described as non-indusiate , but it is difficult to be certain as to the absence of an indusium , 2 c 2 The venation of Matonia pectinata is especially interesting in the comparison of fossil fronds ; the occasional lateral anastomoses , and the close approach to the Woodwardiatype of venation shown in Plate 18 , fig. 23 , agree exactly with the Phlebopteris character , while the forked and separate lateral veins are identical with those usually associated with the fossil fronds referred to Laccopteris text-fig .
9 , A-C ) .
Before enumerating fossil species of Laccopteris , a brief reference must be made to the genus Phlebopteris , which it is now proposed to include under the former designation .
Brongniart instituted the generic name Phlebopteris in 1828 , # and modified the diagnosis in 1849.f The anastomosing of the lateral veins in " arcades " close to the midrib ( fig. 9 , B ) , and the origin of simple or forked veins from the arched anastomoses are characters on which especial stress is laid ; the venation is in fact precisely that of Matonia pectinata .
The occurrence of lateral anastomoses and arcade-like connections in Matonia , combined with secondary forked veins not laterally connected , serves to emphasise the probability that the supposed difference in the venation characters of Laccopteris and Phlebopteris is of little or no value .
J The following list must not be regarded as including all known species of Laccopteris or Phlebopteris ; only some of the more satisfactory examples are mentioned , S and in a few cases synonyms are given to illustrate the probable identity of leaves frequently referred to distinct species :\#151 ; Laccopteris elegans , Presl .
From the Rhaetic beds of Germany .
Text-fig .
8 illustrates the habit of this type of frond .
For additional drawings , reference must be made to Goppert , || Schenk , II and other authors .
This species is recorded also from Bornholm by Bartholin .
## L. Miinsteri , Schenk .
Rhaetic of Germany .
This species closely resembles L. elegans .
The sori , sporangia , and spores have been described and figured by Schenk , ft Zeiller , || and others .
There is a very close resemblance between this fern as figured by Schenk , and specimens of L. ( Phlebopteris)polypodioides , Brongn .
, from the Lower Oolite rocks .
* * * S ** * Brongniart ( 28 ) , p. 372 .
t Ibid.(49 ) , p. 30 .
I Since writing this I find that Nathorst has expressed the opinion that polypodioides presents a very close agreement with Laccopteris and Aand might well he referred to one of these genera.\#151 ; Nathorst ( 80 ) , pp. 60-61 .
S Other species are incidentally referred to in the list of countries from which probable representatives of the Matoninse have been recorded .
|| Goppert ( 41 ) .
II Schenk ( 67 ) .
** Bartholin ( 94 ) , p. 21 , Plates 8 and 9 .
ft Schenk ( 88 ) , fig. 30 , p. 38 .
H Zeiller ( 85 ) .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
L. polypodioides , Brongn .
Lower Oolite , Gristhorpe , near Scarborough .
This species was first described by Brongni art .
* In general habit it agrees with the older species of Laccopteris ; the sori appear to consist of a somewhat large number of sori , as many as 13 or 14 being visible in some cases , f The annulus resembles that in elegans as described by Schenk and Zeiller .
A portion of a segment of this species is represented in Text-fig .
9 , B ; two of the sori , of about 12 to 14 sporangia , are clearly preserved at S , S ; the position of the other sori is indicated by the smaller veins , which are faintly indicated , with occasional anastomoses .
Laccopteris polypodioides(Brongn .
) , 1828 .
Phlebopteris propinquci , Brongniart ( 28 ) , p. 373 , Plate 132 , fig. 1 , and Plate 133 , fig. 2 .
Pecopteris ccespitosa , Phillips ( 29 ) , p. 148 , Plate 8 , fig. 10 .
( Type-specimen in the York Museum .
) Pecopteris crenifolia , Phillips ( 29 ) , p. 148 , Plate 8 , fig. 11 .
( Type-specimen in the York Museum .
) Pecopteris polypodioides , Bindley and Hutton ( 31 ) , vol. 1 , Plate 60 .
Phlebopteris contigua , Lindley and Hutton ( 33 ) , vol. 2 , Plate 144 .
( Type-specimen in the Scarborough Museum .
) Pecopteris propinqua , \ Lindley and Hutton ( 33 ) , Plate 119 .
( Type-specimen in the Scarborough Museum .
) Hemitelites Brownii , Goppert ( 36 ) , p. 334 , Plate 38 , fig. 1 .
Polypodites crenifolius , ibid. , p. 343 .
Hemitelites polypodioides , ibid. , p. 336 , Plate 15 , figs. 8 and 9 .
Polypodites Lindleyi , ibid. , p. 342 , Plate 38 , figs. 5 and 6 .
Steffensia polypodioides , Presl in Sternberg ( 38 ) , p. 125 .
Steffensia crenifolia , ibid. , p. 124 .
Polypodites Lindleyi , Zigno ( 56 ) , p. .
162 .
Phlebopteris crenifolia , Phillips ( 75 ) , p. 202 .
Phlebopteris Lindleyi , ibid. , p. 202 .
Phlebopteris contingua , ibid. , p. 202 .
Pecopteris ccespitosa , ibid. , p. 207 , Plate 8 , fig. 10 ( non Lign .
20 ) .
Some fragments described by Brongniart from a Jurassic horizon in Bornholm as Phleboptens SchouwiiS may possibly he identical with P. polypodioides .
* Brongniart ( 28 ) , p. 372 , Plate 83 , fig. 1 .
t Specimen No. 52522 , in the British Museum , shows the sori very clearly .
This and other Jurassic plants will be figured and described in a forthcoming British Museum Catalogue of Jurassic plants .
+ Nathorst ( 80 ) , p. 60 , has also pointed out the identity of propinqua , P. polypodioides , and P. crenifolia .
S Brongniart ( 28 ) , p. 374 , Plate 132 , figs. 4-6 .
The specimen described by Leckenby# in 1864 as Woodwardi ( typespecimen in the Woodwardian Museum , Cambridge ) , is very similar to , if not identical with , L. polypodioides .
Leckenby 's type-specimen consists of an imperfect pinnule , showing the impressions of circular sori and lateral veins with numerous anastomoses ; it is certainly identical with the fragment ( 6 millims. broad ) from the Inferior Oolite of Yorkshire , represented in fig. 9 , A. It is also , in all probability , specifically identical with S abort a 's Microdictyon Woodwardianum , '\ and this differs very slightly from another French species founded by the same author on some small pinnule fragments from the Jurassic ( Bathonian and Oxfordian ) rocks of France.^ The portion of a pinnule shown in fig. 9 , C , from the Inferior Oolite of Stamford is also most probably specificially identical with Laccopteris polypit shows the anastomosing veins below the sori , as in Matonia ; the sporangia themselves have not been preserved .
Fig. 9 .
A. \#151 ; Pinnule of Laccopteris Woodwardi from the Inferior Oolite of Yorkshire , showing reticulate veins and hemispherical bosses with a small central depression , marking the position of circular sori which were attached to a central receptacle ( No. 217 , British Museum ) .
B. \#151 ; Pinnule of Laccopteris polypodioides , with sori and soral impressions , Upper Shale , Gristhorpe Bay ( No. 2522 , British Museum ) .
C. \#151 ; Pinnule fragment from the Inferior Oolite of Stamford ( No. 52867 , British Museum ) .
( From drawings by Miss G. M. Woodward .
) This brings us to the question of the possible identity of the genus Phlebopteris of Brongniart ( Laccopteris ) and Microdictyon of Saporta .
Saporta instituted the latter genus for some detached pinnules of Jurassic ferns , which he considered did not conform in all points to either Phlebopteris or Thaumatopteris ; from the former genus Microdictyon is said to differ in the presence of a reticulum of veins in the large meshes formed by the anastomosing of the secondary veins , and from the latter in the disposition of the sori .
We are not concerned with Thaumatopteris , as the characteristics of this genus separate it in certain respects from the Matonia type .
* * Leckenby ( 64 ) , p. 81 , Plate 8 , fig. 6 .
t Saborta ( 73 ) , p. 313 , Plate 33 .
| Ibid. , p. 309 , Plates 33 , 35 , and 44 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
i99 Several Jurassic and Cretaceous ferns have been placed in Saporta 's genus by various authors , and I have elsewhere^ retained as a distinct generic type .
In habit Microdictyon agrees with t and but the sori appear to be smaller than in Phlebopand the smooth rounded outline of the closely set rows of the hemispherical soral projections suggests the presence of a circular indusium attached to a central receptacle ; or the projections with a central hole may be casts of the cup-like depressions left on the fall of the sori , as shown in the Matonia pinnule of fig. 14 , Plate 18 .
Saporta and other authors do not refer to the presence of an indusium ; and Raciborski| describes some Polish species as being without an indusium , but his figures favour the idea that an indusium may have been present .
The fragments from the Aachen chalk , figured by Debey and EttingshaxjsenS as species of Carolopteris , and no doubt identical with Microdictyon , are described as indusiate .
It may be that in Laccopteris there was no indusium , but in Microdicyton the sori were indusiate .
Zeiller , || in a footnote to his paper on Tong-King fossils , refers to a figure by Heer of Laccopteris as suggesting the presence of an indusium , but in his later paperH he considers the sori to have been naked .
It is exceedingly difficult to determine whether or no an indusium was present in these fossil sori , and the ease with which the indusium of Matonia is detached emphasises the danger of drawing conclusions as to the indusiate or non-indusiate condition of certain kinds of fossil sori .
The fossil Matonidium was probably indusiate , and the appearance of some at least of the species referred to Microdictyon points undoubtedly to the existence of an indusium ; the occurrence of fertile pinnae of Laccopteris in which the outline of the sporangia are distinctly shown , is no proof that an indusium was never present .
In an older leaf , which had been exposed to the air before being embedded in sediment , the circular indusium might very readily fall off .
The fact , therefore , that in some of the specimens referred to Microdictyon the sori appear to be indusiate , does not in itself afford an obstacle in the way of uniting Saporta 's Microdictyon to Laccopteris ( including Phlebopteris ) .
Specimens conforming to the Laccopteris ( ) type have been recorded from Jurassic and Cretaceous rocks of England , ## Germany , France , Portugal , Belgium , Austria , Italy , Russia , Bornholm , Switzerland , Australia , and elsewhere .
It is probable that the fragments of a fern described by HEERtt from the Cretaceous * * * S ** * Seward ( 94 ) , p. 134 .
t Schimper in Zittel ( 90 ) , p. 136 , also suggests that Microdictyon is scarcely separable from Phlebopteris .
| Raciborski ( 94 ) , p. 42 , Plate 13 , fig. 10 .
S Debey and Ettingshausen ( 59 ) , Plate 3 , figs. 20-27 .
|| Zeiller ( 82 ) , p. 347 .
H Zeiller ( 85 ) , p. 22 .
** Vide Seward ( 94 ) , p. 134 ; Velenovsky ( 88 ) ; Bartholin ( 92 ) , Plate 10 ; Heer ( 76 ) , Plate 4 , Ac .
ft Heer ( 80 ) , p. 7 , Plate 1 , figs. 1-6 .
beds of Pattorfik , in Greenland , under the generic name may belong to Laccopteris ; if this be so , the northern range of the Matoninese is considerably extended .
An examination of the original specimens figured by Heer , and now in the Stockholm Palaeobotanical Museum , led me to compare with Laccopteris .
There is a close resemblance also between some pinnae described by Heer# from the Upper Chalk of Greenland as C angusta and the type of frond .
Another genus which should probably be included in Laccopteris is the monotypic Guthieraof PiiESL , t described by Presl and Schenk , j and more recently recorded from Sweden^ and Portugal .
|| Another instance of a Matonia-like habit is afforded by some small Italian Oolitic ferns referred to Zigno to the genus Marzaria A this name has also been applied to a small palmate leaf from the Inferior Oolite of the Yorkshire coast , but the type-specimen of Phillips ' species , now in the Whitby Museum , has no claim to generic autonomy ; both the Yorkshire and Italian leaves are most probably young fronds of Laccopteris , Dictyophyllum , or some other genus .
Matonidium .
Schenk proposed this generic name in 1871ft for fossil fronds having the same characters as those of Matonia pectinata .
Zeiller , in discussing the affinities of Laccopteris , points out that Matonidium differs from the recent genus in the more oval form of the sori , and\#151 ; in some fossil species\#151 ; in the larger number of sporangia .
Unfortunately , no specimens of Matonidium have so far been found which enable us to make out in detail the structure of the sporangia , but the form of the sorus , and so much as is known of the sporangia , afford evidence of a distinct similarity to the recent species .
In habit , and in the form and venation of the pinnules , Matonidium is practically identical with the Malayan species .
This genus is characteristic of Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous rocks .
It is a difficult question to decide if the Wealden species M. Gopperti(Ett .
) and the Jurassic species polydactyla ( Dunk .
) are identical ; they present a very strong resemblance to one another , and following Leckenby|| in my description of the English Wealden speciesSS I ventured to regard * * * S ** * * SS * Heer ( 83 ) , Plate 50 .
t Presl in Sternberg ( 38 ) , p. 116 , Plate 32 , fig. 13 .
\ Schenk ( 67 ) , p. 64 , Plate 18 .
S Nathorst ( 78 ) , Plates 3 and 4 .
|| Saporta ( 94 ) , p. 5 , Plate 1 , fig. 9 .
U ZiGNO ( 56 ) , Plate 19 .
SchimpeR retains this name in his account of the ferns in Zittel 's ' Hand-buch ' ; but it is better to give up the genus .
[ Zittel ( 90 ) , p. 130 .
] ** Phillips ( 75 ) , p. 204 .
ft Schenk ( 71 ) , p. 219 .
Leckenby ( 64 ) , p. 80 .
SS Seward ( 94 ) , p. 63 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
the two as identical .
In some specimens the Wealden form has rather shorter and straighter pinnules than those of the Lower Oolite species , but this difference does not appear to be constant .
For our present purpose it is at least simpler to include both under one name ; they may fairly be considered identical from the point of view of the close relationship between the fossil and living species of the Matoninese .
Matonidium Go(Ett .
) .
In 1846 Dunker# figured some imperfect portions of a fern frond from the Wealden of Northern Germany , under the names Pecopteris and P. ; these are , no doubt , specifically identical .
The same species was afterwards described and figured by ETTiNGSHAUSENt as Alethopteris Gopperti from Wealden rocks of Zobing , in Austria .
Finally , Schenk substituted the generic name of In 1864 Leckenby described some large specimens of a frond from the Lower Oolite of the Yorkshire coast , possessing a striking resemblance to as Pecopteris polydactyla .
Leckenby 's original specimens are now in the Woodwardian Museum ; the figures are , on the whole , accurately drawn , but the figure of the fertile pinnule does not convey a correct idea of the crowded oval sori , which cover the lower surface of the pinnules .
In the list of synonyms of M. Gopperti given in my Wealden Catalogue , Phillips ' species , Pecopteris ccespitosa , S of Lower Oolite age , is doubtfully included ; an examination of the type-specimen in the York Museum has convinced me that Phillips ' specimen is a very imperfectly preserved frond of Laccopteris Bunbury|| expressed the opinion in 1851 that if the fructification of Pecopteris ccespitosa were known , it would probably be found to be identical with Laccopteris or Andriania .
This view is confirmed by the comparison of Phillips ' type and more perfect fertile specimens of Laccopteris .
Matonidium Gopperti , used in the wider sense as including both Wealden and Jurassic specimens , is characterised by the usually oval\#151 ; but occasionally circular\#151 ; -form of the crowded sori disposed in two rows on the under surface of the pinnules .
The position of the central receptacle is shown by a small depression or projecting knob , according to the state of preservation , in the centre of each sorus .
It is an * * * S * Dunker ( 46 ) , p. 5 .
For list of synonyms vide Seward ( 94 ) , p. 63 ; to this list should be added Laccopteris polydactyla ( Saporta , 'Pal .
Frany .
, ' 1891 , vol. 4 .
, p. 384 ) .
t Ettingshausen ( 52 ) , p. 16 , Plate 5 .
\ The specimens figured by Schenk ( 'Palaeontographica , ' vols .
19 and 23 , 1871 and 1875 ) , are in the Berlin Bergakademie collection of fossil plants .
S Phillips ( 29 ) , p. 148 , Plate 8 , fig. 10 .
Pecopteris has usually been regarded as but I have no hesitation in speaking of it as identical with L. polypodioides .
|| Bunbury ( 51 ) , p. 187 .
VOL. CXCI.---B .
2 D interesting fact that in the Jurassic fronds of this species every pinnule appears to be fertile , even the smallest segments at the base of the pinnae , exactly as in Matonia l\gt ; ectinatci* M. Wiesneri , Krasser .
This species , from Cretaceous ( Cenomanian ) rocks of Moravia , was founded by KRASSERt for some fern fronds with a like habit .
agrees closely with the Malayan fern in the form of pinnules and in the occurrence of anastomosing veins below the sorus ; the sorus appears to be indusiate and circular .
Krasser gives figures of a pinnule of the recent species , but , like other authors , he overlooks the fact that the lateral veins are often connected by arching branches .
The Moravian species differs from M. Gopperti and agrees with Matonia in the small number of sori on the fertile segments .
Without entering into further discussion as to the taxonomy of Mesozoic ferns allied to Matonia , we may briefly summarise the distribution of probable representatives of the Matoninese .
There can be little doubt that a critical comparison of the specimens described by various authors from Triassic , Jurassic and Cretaceous localities , and referred to such genera as Laccopteris , Gutbier , , Matonidium , and others , would yield valuable results from the point of view of the past history of the Matonineae .
The geological range of the genera referred to extends from Hhaetic to Cretaceous rocks , and , geographically , the species of these genera appear to be essentially European ; they are recorded from England , France , Germany , Belgium , S Italy , || Austria , Portugal,11 Bornholm , ## Sweden , ft Poland , jj Persia , SS and possibly Spitz-bergen|||| and Greenland .
HH The apparent absence of such ferns from extra-European regions must be , in part at least , ascribed to our lack of data , but the Indian fossil * * * S ** * * SS * There are some exceedingly good examples of the Jurassic Matonulium in the British Museum collection , and specimens are not uncommon in the iron-stained rocks on the beach at Hayburn Wyke , a well known plant locality on the Yorkshire coast .
t Krasser ( 96 ) , p. 119 , Plate 11 , fig. 1 ; Plate 12 , figs. 1 and 2 ; Plate 17 , fig. 10 .
I Ibid. , Plate 17 , fig. 9 .
S The collection of Bernissart Wealden plants in the Br ussels Museum includes examples of Laccopteri ( Microdictyon ) Dunkeriand what are probably fragments of Gopperti .
|| Zigno ( 56 ) , pp. 172 , 197 , \amp ; c. II Saporta ( 94 ) .
Heer ( 81 ) .
** Bartholin ( 92 ) .
ft Nathorst ( 78 ) p. 32 .
} } Racijborski ( 94 ) .
Vide also Seward ( 94 ) .
SS Krasser ( 91 ) , p. 4 .
HD Nathorst ( 97 ) , p. 31 .
HUE Heer ( 80 ) .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
floras , as well as those of Africa , Australia and China , do not afford any satisfactory examples which can be definitely referred to , or Matonidium* Zeiller | has recorded Woodtvardites , Schenk , Fuchsi , Zeill .
, also species of Dictyophyllumand Clathropteris from the Kinetic strata of Tong-King , but none of these specimens afford any satisfactory evidence of a close affinity with Matonia .
As Zeiller points out , the recent genus Dipteris ( a section of Poly podium ) alluded to by Wallace as growing in company with Matonia nata on Mount Ophir , may well be compared with such fossil ferns as those referred to Clathropteris and certain other Mesozoic genera .
A fragment of an African fern , described by Tate| as Pecopteris Atherstonci from Africa , has been included by Schimper in the genus , but as ZeillerS remarks , this determination is purely hypothetical ; it probably belongs to a Clado-phlebis leaf .
Geological evidence points unmistakably to the wide European distribution of the Matoninem in Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous times , but it is not yet sufficiently complete to enable us to understand the series of changes which led to the present isolation of Matonia in the Malayan region .
Matonia may reasonably be classed among present-day survivals in the southern hemisphere of ancient Mesozoic types , and it would seem that this generic type originated in the northern hemisphere late in the Triassic or early in the Jurassic period .
The apparent absence of satisfactory fossil Matonineae in the Tertiary floras lends support to the view that this section of the Filices reached its maximum development in the Mesozoic era , and towards the close of the Cretaceous period its geographical range had become considerably restricted .
Climatal conditions , and , perhaps , more particularly the revolution in the struggle for existence consequent on the appearance of the flowering plants , drove these Mesozoic types towards the south , where the environment more nearly coincided with the conditions of life which had ceased to exist in the northern hemisphere .
Bibliography .
Andrae , K. T. ( 53 ) .
Fossile Flora Siebenblirgens und des Banates .
Abh .
k.-k .
Geol .
Reichs .
, vol. 2 , Abth .
iii .
Baker , J. G. ( 88 ) .
On a further Collection of Ferns from West Borneo .
Journ. Linn. Soc. ( Bot. ) , vol. 24 , p. 256 , 1888 .
* A portion of a pinna has been described by Etheridge from the Ipswich Coal-Measnres of Queensland , under the name Phlebopteris Aletliopteroides , which is probably a species of Laccopteris { vide Etheridge , ' Proc. Linn. Soc. , ' N. S. Wales , vol. 3 , 1888 , p. 1306 ) .
t Zeiller ( 82 ) , pp. 308 , ct seq. Vide also Zeiller ( 97 ) , p. 51 .
1 Tate ( 67 ) , p. 145 , Plate 5 , fig. 2 .
( The fossil plants described by Tate are in the Museum of the Geological Society .
) S Zeiller ( 85 ) p. 21 .
Baker , J. G. ( 91 ) .
A Summary of New Ferns which have been Discovered or Described since 1874 .
Annals Bot. , vol. 5 , p. 191 , 1891 .
Bartholin , C. T. ( 94 ) .
Nogle i den bornholmske Jurafo^mation forekommende Planteforsteninger .
Bot. Tiddsskrift , vol. 18 , 1894 .
De Bary , A. ( 84 ) .
Comparative Anatomy of Phanerogams and Ferns .
Oxford , 1884 .
Beddome , B. H. ( 68 ) .
The Ferns of British India , vol. 2\#151 ; Madras , 1868 .
Bommer , J. E. ( 67 ) .
Monographic de la Class des Fougeres .
Bull .
Soc. Boy .
Bot. Belg. , vol. 5 , 1866 .
Brussels , 1867 .
Bower , F. O. ( 89 ) .
The Comparative Examination of the Meristems of Ferns , as a Phylogenetic Study .
Annals Bot. , vol. 3 , p. 305 .
Braun , F. ( 43 ) , vide Munster , E. , Graf zu .
Beitrage sir Petrefactenkunde Bayreuth .
Heft vi .
Bayreuth , 1843 .
Brongniart , A. ( 28 ) .
Histoire des Vegetaux Fossiles .
Paris , 1828 .
---- ( 19 ) .
Tableau des Genres des Vegetaux Fossiles .
Ext. Diet .
d'Hist .
Naturelle .
Paris , 1849 .
Brown , B. ( 67 ) .
Names and Notes on Indian Plants .
Miscell .
Bot. Works , vol. 2 , p. 531 .
London , 1867 .
Bunbury , G. J. F. ( 51 ) .
On some Fossil Plants from the Jurassic Strata of the Yorkshire Coast .
Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. 7 , p. 179 .
Burck , W. ( 84 ) .
Contributions to the Fern Flora of Borneo .
Ann. Jard .
Bot. Buitenzorg , vol. 4 , p. 90 , 1884 .
Christ , H. ( 97 ) .
Die Farnkrauter der Erde .
Jena , 1897 .
Dangeard , P. A. ( 89 ) .
Essai sir TAnatomie des Cryptogames Vasculaires .
Le Botaniste , vol. 1 , 1889 , Fasc .
vi .
, p. 211 .
Debey , M. H. , and Ettingshausen , C. yon ( 59 ) .
Die urweltlichen Acrobryen des Kreidegebirges von Aachen und Maestricht .
Denkschr .
k. Ak .
Wiss .
, Wien , vol. 17 , p. 185 .
Dunker , W. ( 46 ) .
Monographic der norddeutschen Wealdenbildung .
Braunschweig , 1846 .
Ettingshausen , C. von ( 52 ) .
Beitrag sir naheren Kenntniss der Flora der Wealden-Periode .
Abh .
k.-k .
Geol .
Beichs .
, vol. 1 , Abth .
iii .
, 1852 .
---- ( 65 ) .
Die Farnkrauter der Jetztwelt .
Wien , 1865 .
Gibson , B. J. H. ( 94 ) .
Contributions towards a Knowledge of the Anatomy of the Genus Selaginella , Spr .
Annals Bot. , vol. 8 , p. 133 .
Goebler , E. ( 86 ) .
Die Schutzvorrichtungen am Stammscheitel der Fame .
Flora , 1886 , p. 451 .
Goppert , H. B. ( 36 ) .
Die fossilen Farnkrauter .
Nova Acta A. Caes .
Leop.-Car .
, vol. 17 , Suppl. 1836 .
---- ( 41 ) .
Die Gattungen der fossilen Pflanzen .
Bonn , 1841 , TIeer , O. ( 76 ) .
Flora fossilis Helvetise .
Zurich , 1876 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
Heer , O. ( 80 ) .
Nachtrage sir fossilen Flora Gronlands .
Kongl .
Svensk .
Vet.-Akad .
Hand .
, vol. 18 .
---- ( Si ) .
Contributions a la Flore Fossile du Portugal .
Secc .
Trab .
Geol .
Portugal , 1881 .
---- ( 83 ) .
Flora Fossilis Arctica , vol. 7 .
Zurich , 1883 .
Hofmeister , W. ( 63 ) .
On the Germination , Development , and Fructification of the Higher Cryptogamia .
London , 1863 .
Hohnel , F. von ( 77 ) .
Uber den Kork und verkorkte Gewebe iiberhaupt .
Sitz .
k. Akad .
Wiss .
, Wien , vol. 76 , Abth .
i. , p. 507 , 1877 .
Hooker , W. J. H. , and Bauer ( 42 ) .
Genera Filicum .
London , 1842 .
---- ( 64 ) .
Species Filicum , vol. 5 .
London , 1864 .
----and Baker , J. G. ( 68 ) .
Synopsis Filicum .
London , 1868 .
Horsfield , J. ; Brown , B. , and Bennett , J. J. ( 38 ) .
Plantse Javanicse rariores .
London , 1838-52 .
Janczewski , E. de ( 82 ) .
Etudes comparees sir les Tubes Cribreux .
Ann. Sci. Not .
[ 6 ] , vol. 14 , p. 50 , 1882 .
Klein , L. ( 84 ) .
Yergleichende Untersuchungen fiber Organbildung und Wachsthum am Vegetationspunkt dorsiventraler Fame .
Bot. Zeit .
, 1884 , p. 577 .
Krasser , F. ( 91 ) .
TJber die fossile Flora der Rhatischen Schichten Persiens .
Sitz .
k. Akad .
Wiss .
, Wien , vol. 100 , Abth .
i. ---- ( 96 ) .
Die fossile Kreideflora von Kunstadt in Mahren .
Beit .
Palaont .
und Geol .
Osterreich-Ungarns , etc. Wien und Leipzig , 1896 .
Leckenby , J. ( 64 ) .
On the Sandstones and Shales of the Oolites of Scarborough .
Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. 20 , p. 74 , 1864 .
Leclerc du Sablon ( 90 ) .
Recherches sir la Formation de la Tige des Fougeres .
Ann. Sci. Not .
[ 7 ] vol. 11 , p. 1 .
Lindley , J. , and Hutton , W. ( 31 ) .
The Fossil Flora of Great Britain , vol. 1 .
London , 1831-33 .
---- ( 33 ) .
Ditto , vol. 2 , 1833-35 .
Luerssen , C. ( 73 ) .
Uber centrifugales locales Dickenwachsthum innerer Parenchym-zellen der Marattiaceen .
Bot. Zeit .
, 1873 , p. 641 .
---- ( 89 ) .
Die Farnpflanzen .
Rabenhorst 's Krypt .
Flora , vol. 3 .
Leipzig , 1889 .
Mettenius , G. ( 64 ) .
Uber den Bau von AnAbhand .
k. Sachs .
Ges .
Wiss .
, vol. 6 , p. 501 .
---- ( 65 ) .
Uber die HymenojDhyllacese .
Ibid. , vol. 7 , p. 403 .
Mohl , H. von* ( 45 ) .
Uber den Bau des Stammes der Baumfarne .
Vermischt .
Schrift .
, p. 108 .
Tubingen .
Moore , T. ( 57 ) .
Index Filicum .
London , 1875 .
Nathorst , A. G. ( 78 ) .
Ora Floran i Skanes Kolforande Bildningar.\#151 ; I. Floran vid Bjuf .
Sveriges Geol .
Unders .
Stockholm , 1878 .
---- ( 78 ' ) .
Beitrage sir fossilen Flora Schwedens .
Stuttgart , 1878 .
---- ( 80 ) .
Berattelse , afgifven till Kongl .
Vetenskaps-Akademien , om en med understod af allmanna medel utford Vetenskaplig Resa till England .
Ofversigt af K. Veten.-Akad .
Forhand .
Stockholm , 1880 , No. 5 , p. 23 .
Nathorst , A. G. ( 97 ) .
Sir Mesozoischen Flora Spitzbergens .
Kongl .
Sv .
Vet .
Akad .
Hand .
, vol. 30 .
Phillips , J. ( 29 ) .
Illustrations of the Geology of Yorkshire .
York , 1829 .
---- ( 75 ) .
Ed. III .
London , 1875 .
Poirault , G. ( 94 ) .
Recherches Anatomiques sir les Cryptogames Vasculaires .
Ann. Sci. Not .
[ 8 ] , vol. 18 , 1894 .
Prantl , K. ( 81 ) .
Untersuchungen sir Morphologie der Gefasskryptogamen .
Heft ii.\#151 ; Schizaceae .
Leipzig , 1881 .
Presl , K. B. ( 47 ) .
Die Gefassbiindel im Stiele der Farn .
Abh .
k. Bohm .
Ges .
Wiss .
[ 5 ] , vol. 5 , 1847 .
Raciborski , M. ( 94 ) .
Flora Kopalna Krakow .
Pamietn .
Wydz .
Akad .
Umiej Krakowie , vol. 18 , p. 142 , 1894 .
Russow , E. ( 72 ) .
Vergleichende Untersuchungen .
Mem. Acad. Imp .
St. Peters-bourg [ 7 ] , vol. 19 .
Sadebeck , R. ( 79 ) .
Die Gefasskryptogamen .
Schenk 's Handhuch der Botanik , vol. 1 .
Breslau , 1879 .
Saporta , G. de ( 73 ) .
Plants Jurassiques .
Pal .
Franc .
[ 2 ] , vol. 1 .
---- ( 94 ) .
Flore Fossile du Portugal .
Trav .
Geol .
Portugal , 1894 .
Schenk , A. ( 67 ) .
Die fossile Flora der Grenzschichten der Keupers und Lias Frankens .
Wiesbaden , 1867 .
---- ( 71 ) .
Die Flora der Norddeutschen Wealdenformation .
Palseontograph .
vol. 19 , p. 203 .
---- ( 88 ) .
Die fossilen Pflanzenreste .
Breslau , 1888 .
Schimper , W. P. ( 69 ) .
Traite de Paleontologie Vegetale , vol. 1 , 1869 .
Schumann , K. ( 94 ) .
Lehrbuch der systematischen Botanik .
Stuttgart , 1894 .
Scott , D. H. ( 94 ) .
Recent Work on the Morphology of Tissues in the Higher Plants .
Science Progress , vol. 1 , p. 463 .
Seward , A. C. ( 94 ) .
The Wealden Flora , vol. 1 .
Catalogue Mesozoic Plants , Brit. Mus. London , 1894 .
---- ( 98 ) .
A Rare Fern , Matonia pectinata , R. Br .
British Association Report , 1898 , p. 1050 .
Smith , W. ( 75 ) .
Historia Filicum .
London , 1875 .
Solms-Laubach , Graf zu ( 91 ) .
Fossil Botany .
Oxford , 1891 .
Sternberg , C. , Graf von ( 38 ) .
Versuch einer geognostisch-botanischen Darstellung der Flora der Vorwelt .
Leipzig , 1820-38 .
Fasc .
vii .
, 1838 .
Strasburger , E. ( 91 ) .
Uber den Bau und die Verrichtungen der Leitungsbahnen in den Pflanzen .
Hist. Beit .
, Heft iii .
Jena , 1891 .
Tansley , A. G. ( 96 ) .
The Stelar Theory .
Science Progress , vol. 5 , p. 133 , 1896 .
Tate , R. ( 67 ) .
On Some Secondary Fossils from South Africa .
Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. 23 , p. 139 .
AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
Terletzki , P. ( 84 ) .
Anatomy der Vegetationsorgane von Willd .
, und Pteris aquilina , L. Pringsh .
Jahrb .
, vol. 15 , p. 452 , 1884 .
Thomae , K. ( 86 ) .
Die Blattstiele der Fame .
Ibid. , vol. 17 , p. 99 , 1886 .
van Tieghem , P. ( 91 ) .
Traite de Botanique .
Paris , 1891 .
---- and Douliot , H. ( 86 ) .
Sir la Polystelie .
Ann. Sci. Not .
[ 7 ] , vol. 3 , p. 275 .
Yelenovsky , J. ( 88 ) .
Die Fame der bohmischen Kreideformation .
Abb .
k. Bohm .
Ges .
Wiss .
[ 7 ] , vol. 2 , 1888 .
Wallace , A. B. ( 86 ) .
The Malay Archipelago .
London , 1886 .
Wallich , N. ( 30 ) .
Plantse Asiaticse rariores , vol. 1 .
London , 1830 .
Zeiller , B. ( 82 ) .
Examen de la Flore Fossile des Couches de Charbon du Tong-King .
Ann. Mines [ 8 ] , vol. 2 , p. 299 .
---- ( 97 ) .
Bevue des Travaux de Paleontologie .
Bev .
Gen. Bot. , vol. 9 .
---- ( 85 ) .
Sir les Affinites du Genre Laccopteris .
Bull .
Soc. Bot. France , vol. 32 , p. 22 .
Zenetti , P. ( 95 ) .
Das Leitungssystem im Stamm von Osmunda L. , und dessen Uebergang in den Blattstiel .
Bot. Zeit .
, 1895 , p. 53 .
Zigno , A. de ( 56 ) .
Flora fossilis Formationis Oolithicae , vol. 1 .
Padova , 1856 .
Zittel , K. A. von ( 90 ) .
Handbuch der Palaeontologie .
Abtli .
ii.\#151 ; Palaeophytologie ( Schimper und Schenk ) .
Mlinchen und Leipzig , 1890 .
Explanation of Plates .
( The microphotographs were taken by Mr. W. Tams , Cambridge .
) PLATE 17 .
Matonia pectinata , B. Br .
Fig. 1 .
Piece of rhizome showing the apex and young fronds , ( not .
size ) .
Fig. 2 .
Piece of rhizome with two young fronds ( not .
size ) .
Figs. 3-6 .
Stages in the development of a frond ( not .
size ) .
Fig. 7 .
Frond partially expanded ( not .
size ) .
Fig. 8 .
Transverse section of rhizome showing two annular steles .
( X 15 .
) Fig. 9 .
Transverse section showing three steles , and four roots in different stages of growth , px .
, protoxylem of the second annular steal .
( X 15 .
) Fig. 10 .
The inner steal of fig. 8 .
px , protoxylem ; S , sieve-tubes ; pt , protophloem ; e , endodermis .
( x 60 .
) Fig. 11 .
Transverse section of rhizome immediately in front of a leaf , showing three steles , the second annular steal open at the top .
B , young root .
( X 15 .
) Fig. 12 .
Portion of fig. 11 , more highly magnified .
( X 40 .
) PLATE 18 .
Matonia pectinata , B. Br .
Fig. 13 .
The inner face of a young pinnule , s ' , sori .
( X 16 .
) Fig. 14 .
A single mature pinnule , with five circular depressions , from which sori have become detached ( slightly enlarged ) .
Fig. 15 .
A , diagrammatic transverse section of a young pinnule ; B , portion of the lamina of A ( x ) .
Ep , upper epidermis .
( X 16 .
) Fig. 16 .
Diagrammatic transverse section of an older pinnule , with two sori .
Fig. 17 .
A young sorus in vertical section , showing two immature sporangia , the large central receptacle and the circular indusium ; a few short scalariform tracheids below the receptacle , ( x 23 .
) Fig. 18 .
A sporangium viewed from two opposite sides , A and B , to show the incomplete oblique annulus .
Fig. 19 .
Two sporangia as seen in side-view of a sorus .
Fig. 20 .
A sorus from which the indusium has been naturally detached .
Fig. 21 .
A stoma in surface-view : a , the surface of the papillose lower epidermal cells in focus ; b , the two guard-cells in focus .
( X 240 .
) Fig. 22 .
Stomata in different stages of development as seen in surface-view of a young pinnule .
( X 240 .
) Fig. 23 .
Portions of two pinnules which have been bleached and stained to show the veins .
S , position of a sorus ; A , near the apex ; B , near the base of the pinnule .
PLATE 19 .
Matonia pectinata , It .
Br .
Fig. 24 .
Transverse section of rhizome , showing the inner annular steal and the axial steal .
px , protoxylem ; pt .
, protophloem ; sieve-tubes ; e , endodermis .
( X 60 .
) Fig. 25 .
Portion of the petiole steal ( x in the half-section of steal ) .
Vx , protoxylem ; Phi , phloem ; E , endodermis ; P , pericycle ; SI , sclerenchyma ; F , fibrous cells ; S , loose parenchyma next the protoxylem .
( X 165 .
) Fig. 26 .
Transverse section of a pinnule .
( X 200 .
) Fig. 27 .
A stoma in section ; numerous rodlets of a pectose substance projecting into the respiratory cavity .
( X 325 .
) Fig. 28 .
Transverse section of young rhizome , to show the deeply stained xylem , parenchyma , p# , single protoxylem group of inner annular steal .
( X40 .
) Fig. 29 .
Vertical section of rhizome apex .
( X 30 .
) AND AFFINITIES OF MATONIA PECTINATA .
Fig. 30 .
Young leaf .
A , in side-view ; B , in front-view ; C , transverse section through the region a bof B ; D , transverse steal through the region c d of B. Fig. 31 .
Transverse section of petiole , ( x 15 .
) Fig. 32 .
Multicellular hair of rhizome , m , thin-walled growing cells at the base .
PLATE 20 .
Matonia pectinata , R. Br .
Fig. 33 .
Transverse section of a strand of thin-walled elements ( sieve-tubes , \amp ; c. ) near the termination of the axial steal , ( x 240 .
) Fig. 34 .
Transverse section of the axial steal .
E , endodermis ; P , pericycle ; Phi , phloem .
( X 240 .
) Fig. 35 .
Diagrammatic transverse section of rhizome , showing the axial steal continuous with the inner annular steal .
Fig. 36 .
Diagrammatic transverse section close to the apex of a rhizome , passing through the point of origin of the youngest leaf .
Fig. 37 .
Part of the outer annular steal in transverse section , showing three proto-xylem groups , px ; S , sieve-tubes ; protophloem , ( x 60 .
) Fig. 38 .
Diagrammatic transverse section through the apex of rhizome .
hairs bending over the apical region .
Fig. 39 .
Diagrammatic vertical section of rhizome apex .
P , position of leaf-bud ; Rh Rjj , young roots .
Fig. 40 ' .
Vertical section through the tip of a young pinnule .
( X 325 .
) Fig. 41 .
Diagrammatic vertical section of a sorus , showing two sporangia and the circular indusium .
A , annulus .
Fig. 42 .
Transverse section of a root .
( X 70 .
) VOL. cxci.\#151 ; B. Seward .
Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 191 , Plate 17 .
5e#/ \#171 ; r\lt ; \#163 ; ' Phil. Trans. B. Vol. 191 , M. t A C. S. 6U1 Matoma pect/ irLatsL .
Parker \amp ; PercyJitk.et implev/ fard- Phil. Tra-ns .
B. Vol. 191 , a.c.s. ael .
il^Tsong pkoto .
Matomia pectin , at-a. .
Parker \amp ; Percylitli .
et imp .
Sewards Phil. Trwn* .
B.Vol .
191 , 20 Faricer \amp ; Percylitli .
et impA .
C. S. del .
w:T*me photo .
]v[a/ b oxii a , p e ctin .
a.^ a. .

