of Waters ; An Instrument to examine the greatest Depths of the Seas ; Another , to try for fresh waters in the bottoms of some Seas ; Pendulum-watches to ascertain Longitudes .
But I must refer to a greater store of such useful Inventions commemorated by Mr Sprat in his History of the R. Society .
Neither had I here mentioned these , but to give this Advertisement ; That sometimes one of these Instruments may open a fair Portal for more Volumes of the most obliging Philosophy , than can be absolved by many hands in some Ages .
It will not be mere Preface , but closely agreeable to the Intention of these Tracts , if I here instance one particular , which may possibly seem to some of the lowest value , and yet may chance to prove of greater importance , than at first we are apt to imagine .
I will name good Scales both of the nicest kinds and some of a stronger frame .
Now this I would represent .
It is certain , some Bodies do increase their weight in a strong Fire : See the Experiment in the said Hist. of the R. Society , p.228 .
And Honorable Mr Boyle hath proved , That even Solid and Coldest Bodies have their Atmospheres ; Some their Electricity ; and some their Magnetismes : And it is palpable , that some draw more Aliment , either from the Earth , or from subterraneous Liquors , or Spirits , or from the Nutritious parts of the Air , or other Influences , which descend through the Air , than they expend in their Atmospheres ; And perhaps more at certain State times , till they have acquired their due Increment .
This being observed , it seems easy to devise , How to examine by Scales , Glasses , and such slight furniture , whence Vegetables , many kinds of Stones , Metals , and other Minerals , have more or less of their Increment , and whence they obtain the stronger Fermentation , which conserves them , or promotes their perfection in their kind : Whether Glass , or what other Materials , do obstruct or retard the resort of any or all of these Spirits , Heats , or Influences : Whether Evergreens , the most fragrant or strong-senting , hot or cold Plants , draw more of their substance from the free Air ; and which draw more from the subterraneal supplies .
And so we may examine Earths ; and Minerals .
We see many Tracts of Land , which yield peculiar Ferments , sometimes Vitriolate Earth , sometimes Aluminous , sometimes Nitrous , sometimes common-Saline , healing Bolus 's , and Earth proper for Fullers , Tobacco-pipes , &amp;c. Sometimes the Ferment is so hot , as to hollow the surface faster than can easily be allayed by Mixtures of a more sullen soil .
And sometimes the Natural surface is so sullen , as to swallow and devour the richest Compost , before it rewards the industrious Husbandman or Gardner : And some do highly pretend to make by Art Nitri-fodinas perpetuas ; to devise the Magnets , which shall draw to our Use the Alimental Nitre of the Air .
I shall not stay to engage for or against either of these but by those curious Utensils we may seon examine , What may be done in good earnest , and how far clear Experiments will answer to those alluring promises .
And though we should fail of the Particulars , yet thence we may chance to dive into some Secrets of very useful Philosophy , and find other Influences , than are either Electrical , or in the common sense Magnetical , but pregnant to disclose the Causes , and to remove the Defects of Fertility , and to impart other no less valuable virtues .
For there are more kinds of Vegetables than are commonly so called , or so considered ; as our History of Osteo-colla , and the beautiful Stone-plants growing on the hard Rocks in Jamaica ( to omit many other Instances ) do testify .
And we see by Experience , that peculiar Earths , Fullers Earth , Terrace for Vessels , and some kinds of Stones , and of Mineral Ores , have their real Increase of Substance in their times of Seasons , and proper places .
Many Noble Persons are Lovers of Gardens , and are willing to entertain Exoticks ; and are provided of the Rocks , Grots , and Crypta 's : possibly , if they shall have a desire to search into the Causes of these over-hot ferments , and of the slow-pac 'd duller Earth , they may happily find unexpected Treasures in their own private Enclosures .
The Spade and Pick-ax will show the proximate Causes , or at least some of the Concomitants of every kind of Fertility , and of every kind of Barrenness ; and the Scales will distinguish real and substantial growth , and the seasons of it , from deceiving Expansions : And then , by Arches and Vaults , by opening Springs , by heaps of Stones , here of Lime-stones , there of Marl-stones , and in severals of Pebbles , white and black Flints , Marcasites , Mineral Ores , Magnets , and Bodies of the strongest Electricity , where they may be had , some laid as in their Natural Beds , and some dislodged in an unkind posture , we may Artificially frame such subterraneous Furnaces and Stoves , as may , by a calm Process , afford us some of the Wonders of Divine Chemistry .
And thus we may have refrigerating Conservatories for cooling Lenitives .
Here we may feed moistning , ning , drying , oily , acid , embalming , tartarous , and every other sort of Steams and Vapours : And what every Mass effects upon the Confiners at what seasons , and at what distance , the Scales and other Implements may detect .
The Ingenious Sanctorius hath not exhausted all the results of Statical Indications .
They may serve to calculate or weigh all sorts of Transpirations , to discriminate Generative , Nutritive , Sanative , Restorative , and Benign , from Maleficiate and Noxious Spirits ; and may instruct us how to guard from what is hurtful , and how to retain that which is congenial .
This Memorandum was due to those Worthies , who have contrived these Philosophical Tools ; and who , in despite of Calumny and Raillery , have in these and many other respects deserved as great Names ( I must say this softly ) as they , who have adorned the best Records of foregoing Ages .
But to return ; Here in this first Volume were also dispatch 'd Enquiries and Directions for all Travellers by Sea and Land , for our Correspondents and all Ingenious persons residing in the more famous parts of the World ; to review , and return a safe Testimony of all such Observables of Nature and Excellencies of Art , as carry the greatest fame , or seem most considerable for Use or Instruction .
We have furnished particular Inquiries for Mines , for Seas , for Springs , and for the Effects of the late Invention of Transfusing Blood , and Medicated Liquors into the Veins of Animals .
In the second Volume , containing the Transactions of the Year 1667 .
we spread somewhat more largely abroad the Inquities proper for more places of principal note ; and then we received from our Co respondents , and published , many not un-instructive Answers .
And here were added more Instruments of Art , some nowly devised , as an Instrument for Measuring the Diameters of Planets to great exactness .
We offered fuller Directions for Sea-voyages ; collected divers Anomatical researches ; relate many odd effects of the Transfusion of Blood , and of Medicins into the Veins of Animals ; a deeper Investigation and further Accompts of Respiration ; a dissected Animal preserved alive by the Wind of Bellows ; the Influeree of Air upon the Life and Growth of Vegetables , upon Luminous Bodies , and Burning coals , &amp;c. In the third Volume , for the Year 1668 .
( besides a good store of Instructive Answers to the former Inquiries , and some further Progress in the disclosures of Nature ) hath been introduced something of Algebra , and other branches of the Mathematicks and Mechanicks , forth use of those that are studious in those Noble Arts , as well to direct in the best Methods , and to detect Erroneous adventures , for the behoof of generous Beginners , as for the satisfaction and further encouragement of them that have attained higher accomplishments .
Also , in each of these Volumes , hath been given the Breviate and Substance of such Philosophical Writings , as came abroad , And were thought of good worth .
And all along we have interspersed many Histories , Philosophical Observations and promiscuous Experiments .
And now , I think , we may take our Prospect , and see , that we have got more ground in our second Volume than in the first ; and more yet in the third than in either of the former ; Whence we take the liberty to ominate well for the future .
Yet in all this I assume nothing to my self , but give all what is due to the merits of my generous Correspondents .
And all that have affections for Arts and Sciences may rejoice to see the late Proficiency of the Ingenuous and Nobler Students in both our famous Universities , and in all the Universities of Christendom .
The Ingenious French have drawn the same Yoke with us , in publishing their Journal des Scavans ; and the Romans have followed our Example in their Giornale de Letterati .
And doubtless all Civil Nations , who have a Gust for useful knowledge , will , in good time , drive on this Example ; and then , as the Light increases , and runs on , we shall in a like proportion become so many mutual Aids to each other : And this will hopefully redound to the General good of Mankind .
I doubt not but the Reader will pardon the Prolixity of this Preface , since , as was promised , it is not only Preface , but bears a part of my main business , which is , to excite and animate the Industry and free Communications of others ; of some of whose Effects take for the present the Specimens following .
Numb.45 .
Beginning the Fifth Year .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
March 25 .
1669 .
The Contents .
A Preface to the Fifth year of these Transactions , which is herewith begun .
The Description of an Instrument for drawing any Object in Perspective .
An Observation of Saturn , rectifying some former Observations of that Planet .
An Extract of a Letter , written from France to the Publisher , concerning the Ordering of Melons .
An Account of two Books .
I. Renati Francisci Slusii MESOLABU M , 2a Editio auctior .
II .
Tractatus de CORD E , item de Motu &amp; Colore SANGUINIS , &amp;c. A. Richardo Lower , M.D. APREFACE To this Fifth Year of the Transactions .
IT may perhaps be expected , that here at the Entrance into the Fifth Year of these Philosophical Communications , something should be prefaced , as hath been done formerly for an Introduction into each of the Four preceding years , beginning always ( according to the English Account ) in the Month of March .
Briefly then , I shall make a few fresh Reflections on what is past , to the purpose of Impressing some few things perhaps not altogether inconsiderable ; And thence offer a Prospect of what may be hoped to be the Product of our future Endeavours , as God shall vouchsafe to prosper them .
In the first Volume , containing the Transactions of Two Years , 1665 , 1666 .
though we were fatally interrupted by the Plague , Wars , and the horrible Conflagration of our Metropolis ; yet we then made an Attempt of laying some Foundation for the Improvement of real Philosophy , and for the spreading of Useful knowledge ; in publishing Advices and Directions for the writing of an Experimental Natural History ; in pointing out Essays , Patterns and Exemplars , that have hitherto been designed in that kind ; in giving notice of divers Artificial Engins and Instruments , which may be helpful for the further Discoveries of Nature , or for the greater performances of Art .
We sought out , how far Art had then arrived towards the perfecting of the Microscope ; and by what means that curious Instrument might be advanced ; and what Informations it would afford us , either upon the view of minutest Bodies ; or of the Texture , Surface , Porosities , Smoothness or Inequalities of other Bodies , that were in our power for such approaches .
The like care we had for Telescopes , by what Operations , Engins , and Applications they might be further improved ; and what was the most , they could thus far perform .
Then we related the Finding out of the Rotation of some of the Planets , and the Changeableness , and Seasons of absence , or Obscurity in some of the Fixed Stars , or such as seemed to be of their Train .
And never , I think , were Comets so chased , their Figures and Appearances so detected , their Motions almost reduced to Rule , and in a manner predicted ; the Solar Eclipse in several and distant places carefully calculated .
And not to recite here , what was attempted and done by Burning-Glasses ; I shall but name the Instruments devised to Measure the Weight and the Changes of Weight of the Air , and other ascending and descending Fluids , either with the Pressure of the whole Atmosphere , or of smaller parcels freed from that Pressure ; I mean the Baroscopes , and the Pneumatic Engins .
There were also offred Hygroscopes , to note the degrees of Drought or Moisture in the Air ; Thermometers to measure the degrees of Heat and Cold ; and an Instrument to graduate Thermometers to make them Standards of Heat and Cold ; an Instrument to measure the Refractions of Liquors of all kinds , for establishing the Laws of Refraction ; Hydrostaticks to measure the Weight of Liquids , and divers other Contrivances to find out the Statical position , tendency and gravitation of Liquids in all parts .
Besides , Engines to break the hardest Rocks ; Huge Wheels , and other Engins for Mines described ; To raise Winds , by the fall

