230 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Coleoptera.\#151 ; By C. O. Waterhouse , Senior Assistant the Zoological Department , Dritish Museum .
( Plate XIY .
) The Coleoptera in Mr. Eaton 's collection represent 7 species , of which only one was previously known .
Of these 6 belong to the and 1 to the Brachelytra .
The Rhynchophora are very peculiar , and possess an assemblage of characters not to be met with in any other species of this tribe .
Consequently their systematic position is very doubtful .
The species originally described under the name norhinus viridis ( G. It .
Waterh .
) as an ally of is placed near by Lacordaire in his wrork on the Genera of the Coleoptera , and on first inspection was referred by me to the Rrachyderidince .
I am still of opinion that it accords better with either Rhyllohius or Brachyderes than it does with Rhinomacer ; but though I have examined it and the other allied species very closely , I am unable even now to assign to them a definite place in the series of genera .
The Rrachelytronis a Rhytosus , which differs only as a species from the normal British representatives of the same genus .
All of Mr. Eaton 's species are apterous ; but Dr. Kidder , of the American Transit of Venus Expedition , states that a large brilliantly coloured specimen of a beetle flew to a light in his tent one night at Molloy Point .
( Kidder , Bulletin TJ .
S. Not .
Mus. , 1876 , iii .
49 .
) BBACHELYTBA .
Aleocharid^ .
Phytosus atriceps .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 15 .
) C. Waterhouse , Ent .
Mo. Mag. , 1875 , xii .
p. 55 .
Bufo-testaceus , breviter pubescens ; capite abdominisque in quatuor segmentis basalibus nigrescentibus .
Long. 3*2 mm. General form that of R. nigriventris , but a little broader .
Beddish-yellow , scarcely shining .
Antennae scarcely longer than the head and thorax together , slightly thickened towards the apex , the three basal joints elongate , the first a little longer than the second , the third shorter than the preceding , elongate-obconic , the fourth subquadrate , the following joints blackish , the fifth to tenth short , the four penultimate transverse , the last ovate .
Head rounded , thickly and finely punetulate .
COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
Thorax a little broader than the head , scarcely broader than long , depressed , very finely coriaceous , slightly narrowed towards the base , all the angles rounded .
Elytra scarcely narrower than the thorax , narrowed towards their base , one-third broader than long , very finely coriaceous , shoulders oblique .
Abdomen less dull , blackish , the apex reddish , the sides nearly parallel .
The claws in this species are distinctly longer and more slender than in Fh .
griventris , but the tarsi present no other difference .
Hab.\#151 ; Tinder stones near high-water mark , Observatory Bay .
Only two specimens seen , one of which has been lost .
January .
Sir C. Wyville Thomson in " G-ood Words " for November 1874 , p. 750 , enumerates 3 species of the CurculionidcB and 1 " small " ( ?
Phytosus ) found on the island , by the Challenger Expedition .
PHLLHYDBIDA .
[ Ochthebius , sp. ?
Dr. Kidder , in Bulletin TJ .
S. Nat. Mas .
, 1876 , iii .
49 , records the finding of a very few specimens of a small black OcJitliebius ( sp. undescribed ) on rocks near the sea and about the roots of wet tufts of grass .
It was not observed by Mr. Eaton .
] BHYNCHOPHOEA .
Ectemnormnid^e .
Canonopsis .
C. Waterb .
, Ent .
Mo. Mag. , 1875 , xii .
55 .
Bostrum short , thick , truncate at the apex ; maxillae visible ; antennal scrobes small , deep , and somewhat reniform , open in front .
Antennae placed very near the apex of the rostrum , long , but not very slender , scape just reaching the front margin of the thorax , slightly enlarged at the apex ; funiculus with the 1st and 2nd joints elongate , the 1st rather longer than the 2nd , 3rd joint short ( about two-thirds the length of the 2nd ) , the 4th , 5th , and 6tli joints globular , the 7th a little broader than the 6th , the club cone-shaped .
Eyes round , moderately prominent .
Thorax as long as broad , gently constricted in front and behind the middle , truncate in front and behind .
Scutellum very small and triangular .
Elytra united at the suture , not broader than the thorax at their base , convex , gradually enlarging to the middle , and then again narrowed to the apex .
Wings absent .
Legs moderately long , femora strongly clavate ; anterior tibiae nearly straight ; apex of the posterior tibiae truncate , hollowed , the margins ciliated .
Tarsi spongy below , the 1st joint as long as the two following together , the 4tli joint a little longer ; the claws curved , separated .
Metasternum very short .
Intercoxal projection of the abdomen wide , nearly straight in front and at the sides ; 3rd and 4th segments equally short , much shorter than the 2nd .
Pygidium slightly visible from above .
Canonopsis sericeus .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 9 .
) C. Waterh .
, op .
cit. , p. 55 .
Subfusiformis , conyexus , flavo-griseo-sericeus ; antennis piceis , clava nigra ; front fovea magna impress^ ; thorace sub aeque latitudine ac longitudine , supra in longitudinem canalieulato , canalicula ante medium expansa et tuberculo obsoleto utrinque instructs ; elytris elongato-ovalibus , apud bases thorace baud latioribus attamen longioribus , punctato-striatis , insterstitiis vix convexis , quorum secundo yittis brevibus velutinis nigris duabus ornato ; femoribus apud bases piceis .
Long. 12 ; elytr .
lat. 1 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Cat Island , Three Island Harbour , Loyal Sound .
Common under stones , 11th October .
Ectemnorhinus .
Eetemnorliinus , G. L. Waterh .
, Trans. Ent .
Soc. London , series 2 , ii .
p. 181 .
Agonelytra , C. 0 .
Waterh .
, Ent .
Mo. Mag. , 1875 , xii .
55 .
M. Lacordaire ( Gen. des Coleopt .
, vi .
, p. 562 ) says of this genus , " Corps oblong , ail .
" The type specimen which Lacordaire had for examination is now in the British Museum collection , and is undoubtedly without wings .
Ectemnorhinus viridis .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 10 .
) Ectemnorhinus viridis , G. L. Waterh .
, loc. cit. Agonelytra longipennis , C. Waterh .
, Ent .
Mo. Mag. , 1875 , xii .
p. 56 .
Elongatus , nigro-piceus , cinereo-sericeus ; capite antice angustato , front foveola leviter impressa , rostro supra bicarinato , antennis piceis , clava nigrescenti ; thorace leviter convexo , sub aeque longitudine ac latitudine , ante et postea paulo angustato , lateribus in medio leviter rotundatis , in dorso carina longitudinali nitida ; elytris apud bases thorace ^ latioribus , et fere quadruplo longioribus , paulo in medio ampliatis , leviter punctato-striatis , interstitiis planis ad apices rotundatis hume-ris obtusis ; corpore subter pedibusque piceis nitidis , femoribus supra tarsisque nigrescentibus .
Long. 7 ; lat. 2*5 mm. Antennae moderately long and stout , 1st and 2nd joints of the funiculus slightly elongate , subequal , the 3rd joint shorter , the 4th to 7th becoming gradually shorter and slightly transverse .
The silky pubescence which covers the head , thorax , and elytra is fine , and not very close on the former .
The elytra strongly embrace the abdomen , and are broadest about the middle , truncate at the base ; the shoulders angular , but obtuse .
The tibiae are very slightly flexuous .
Var.\#151 ; Silky pubescence green , appearing golden in some lights .
Hab.\#151 ; Common in the neighbourhood of Loyal Sound .
COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
Ectemnorhinus angusticollis .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 11 .
) Agonelytra angusticollis , C. Waterh .
, op .
cit. , p. 56 .
JEc .
viridi affinis , distinguendus tamen a tertiis ad septimos articulos funi-culorum antennarum transversis , a thorace supra liaud carinato , elytrisque postice latioribus .
Long. 7 mm. This species is very closely allied to the preceding ; but the antennae are shorter , owing to the 3rd to 7tli joints of the funiculus being transverse , the 6th and 7th very strongly so .
There is no distinct carina on the thorax , and the elytra are broadest behind the middle , very broadly rounded at their apices .
The silky pubescence is yellowish in the female , with indications of two paler , broad , abbreviated bands across the suture , one next the scutellum , the second about the middle .
The male is narrower , darker in colour , and has the bands narrower , shorter , and less distinct .
Hab.\#151 ; Near Loyal Sound .
Ectemnorhinus gracilipes .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 12 .
) Agonelytra gracilipes , 0 .
Waterh .
, op .
cit. , p. 56 .
Niger , griseo-pubescens ; capite supra fere piano ; thorace capite latiori , in medio parum ampliato , paulo in latitudinem minus quam longitudinem ; elytris ad bases thorace f latioribus , gradatim usque ad medium ampliatis , postice angustatis , convexis , supra depressiusculis , leviter punctato-striatis , interstitiis planiusculis ; antennis piceis , clava nigrescenti ; pedibus gracilibus , longis , tarsis articulo tertio bene dilatato .
Long. 3'5\#151 ; 4*7 ; lat. 1*25\#151 ; 1*8 mm. The elytra are gently rounded at the base ; the shoulders are distinct , but very blunt .
Hab.\#151 ; Near Loyal Sound .
Ectemnorhinus brevis .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 13 .
) Agonelytra brevis , C. Waterh .
, op .
cit. , p. 57 .
Niger , senescens , viridi-griseo parce pubescens ; rostro in longitudinem supra leviter impresso ; thorace in longitudinem hand minus quam latitudinem , convexo , ante et postea augustato , lateribus bene rotundatis ; elytris apud bases thorace f latioribus , 2 % eodem longioribus , medium tenus gradatim ampliatis , apicem versus angustatis , convexis , sat fortiter punctato-striatis , interstitiis planiusculis ; antennis piceis , clava magna nigrescenti ; pedibus nigrescentibus , femoribns ad bases tibiis-que intus piceis .
Long. 3-2\#151 ; 4-7 ; lat. 1-7\#151 ; 2 mm. The pubescence is short and thick ( more like narrow scales ) , and is so arranged as to give the elytra a slightly mottled appearance , a spot on each side of the suture being particularly distinguishable .
Hab.\#151 ; Near Royal Sound .
Ectemnorhinus eatoni .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 14 .
) C. Waterh .
, Ent .
Mo. Mag. , 1876 , xiii .
p. 51 .
Pyriformis , convexiusculus , niger , parce et brevissime viridi-griseo-pubescens ; capite rostroque in longitudinem fortiter impressis , hoc brevi , haud apicem versus angustato ; antennis nigris ; thorace paulo capite latiori , vix in longitudinem minus quam latitudinem , antice posticeque angustato , subtilissime coriaceo , subopaco , in medio dorso longitudinaliter carinato , post utrinqne obsolete tnberoso ; elytris ad bases thorace paulo latioribus , post bene ampliatis , supra depressiusculis , distinct striatis , striis lateralibus obsolete punctatis , interstitiis planis , transversim subtilissime strigosis ; pedibus longis , femoribus ad bases piceis , et in medio inflatis , tibiis intermediis paulo curvatis .
Long. 5-5 ; lat. 2-05 mm. This species is most nearly allied to JE .
, but is much less short , and has the shoulders of the elytra effaced .
The thorax is distinctly carinate above ; the forehead and rostrum are deeply and broadly impressed , the antennae are rather slender ; the apex of each elytron is broadly and bluntly rounded , and rather expanded on the outer side ; the femora are somewhat strongly inflated in the middle , the tarsi are rather narrower than in the other species of the genus , and the claw joint is very long .
A single example ; probably a female .
Hab.\#151 ; Near Royal Sound .
Trans , of Yenns Exp e61 .
Ker gia-elen Is ; Zoology .
PI .
XrV .
wrir^c\amp ; a.so :

