324 Prof. Karl Pearson and Miss A. Lee .
II .
" Combinatorial Analysis.\#151 ; The Foundations of a New Theory .
" By Major MacMahon , F.R.S. III .
" Uber Reihen auf der Convergenzgrenze .
" By E. Lasker Communicated by Major MacMahon , F.R.S. IV .
" Extinct Mammalia from Madagascar .
I.\#151 ; sp.n .
" By C. I. Forsyth Major .
Communicated by Dr. Woodward , F.R.S. Y. " The Kinetic Theory of Planetary Atmospheres .
Part I. " By G. H. Bryan , F.R.S. YI .
" Observations on the Effect of Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
" By J. B. Farmer .
Communicated by Mr. H. T. Brown , F.R.S. VII .
" Further Note on the Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria .
" By Dr. A. Macfadyen and S. Rowland .
Communicated by Lord Lister , P.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , May 10th .
" Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
VIP-On the Application of certain Formula !
in the Theory of Correlation to the Inheritance of Characters not capable of Quantitative Measurement .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , with the assistance of Miss Alice Lee , D.Sc .
, University College , London .
Received August 5 , \#151 ; Read , November 16 , 1899 .
Withdrawn , re-written , and again presented March 29 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) ( 1 ) Many characters are such that it is very difficult if not impossible to form either a discrete or a continuous numerical scale of their intensity .
Such , for example , are skin , coat , or eye-colour in animals , or colour in flowers .
In other cases as in the amount of shading , degree of hairiness , \amp ; c. , it might be possible by counting scales or hairs to obtain a numerical estimate of the character , but the labour in the case of several hundreds or a thousand individuals becomes appalling .
Now these characters are some of those which are commonest , and of which it is generally possible for the eye at once to form an appreciation .
A horse-breeder will classify a horse as brown , bay , or chestnut ; a mother classify her child 's eyes as blue , grey , or brown without hesitation and within certain broad limits correctly .
It is clear that if the theory of correlation Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
325 can be extended so as to readily apply to such cases , we shall have much widened the field within which we can make numerical investigations into the intensity of heredity , as well as much lessened the labour of collecting data and forming records .
The extension of theory required for such investigations is provided in a separate memoir .
It is found that the sole conditions for applying this theory are : ( 1 ) that an order of intensity must exist even if there be no quantitative scale ; ( 2 ) that the correlation must be supposed normal .
If these assumptions are made , individuals may even be classified into only two groups of less and greater intensity , and the correlation still found .
For example , the correlation between stature and hair-colour could be found by classifying all individuals simply into short and tall , light and dark haired , although for convenience of judgment a medium class in each case might be introduced .
For the purpose of ascertaining the relative variability of the characters involved , this third or medium class at least must be introduced and a ninefold division made of the correlation table .
In the introduction to the present memoir the probable errors of all the quantities involved are considered , and illustrations given of their values for selected cases .
( 2 ) The bulk of the memoir , however , is concerned with the application of this theory to two special cases , those of inheritance of the coat-colour of horses* and of the eye-colour of men .
There are three recognised chief types of inheritance : the blended heritage , the exclusive heritage , and the particulate heritage , to which latter two may possibly be added the reversionary heritage as a modifying factor .
In the blended heritage the character of the parents and the ancestry in the direct line are in the average offspring mingled in certain proportions .
This heritage seems in broad lines to be described by the law of ancestral heredity .
In exclusive heritage the offspring takes the character of one parent to the exclusion of that of the other .
While in blended heritage , reversion becomes very difficult , if not impossible , to distinguish from exceptional variation , here reversion becomes an easily detected feature ; and studies on reversion ought if possible to deal with exclusive heritage .
Lastly , in particulate heritage , we have a mixture , not a blend , * The twelve tables of coat-eolour inheritance have been extracted for me by Mr. Leslie Bramley-Moore out of Weatherby 's Studbooks .
He first pointed out to me the difficulties attending my method of proportioning , which led to my withdrawing and rewriting this paper .
The twenty-four tables of eye-colour inheritance I have extracted from eye-colour data most generously placed at my disposal by Mr. Francis G-alton .
The arithmetic on these tables is chiefly due to Miss Alice Lee , D.Sc .
, but Mr. L. N. GL Filon , M.A. , Mr. Bramley-Moore and Miss - C. D. Fawcett , B.Sc. , have given us friendly aid .
2 c 2 326 " Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
of the parental characters as in the case of a blue eye streaked with brown , eyes of two different colours , a piebald horse , \amp ; c. The occasional appearance of particulate , where we are accustomed to blended heritage , appears to be sometimes attributed to reversion .
Neither coat-colour in the horse nor eye-colour in man appear to obey the law of ancestral heredity .
( 3 ) In coat-colour we find the horses lighter than the mares , but a secular change appears to be going on , and thoroughbred colts and fillies of to-day are more alike in colour than those of two generations back .
The horse is somewhat more variable than the mare .
The laws of inheritance are in excellent accord with what we should expect from the theory of exclusive inheritance without reversion ; they are incompatible with the law of ancestral heredity .
The only important divergence occurs in grandparental correlation .
( 4 ) In eye-colour we find man lighter than woman , but a secular change is going on , and men and women to-day are more alike in eye-colour than they were two generations back .
This change in eye-colour is possibly due to a correlation between eye-colour and fertility in woman .
Man is somewhat more variable than woman .
The laws of inheritance are not in accord with what we might expect from the law of ancestral heredity .
They are definitely divergent from it , but agree well with exclusive heritage without reversion to ancestral types .
Here again the grandparental correlation appears to be anomalously large .
Great diversity exists , however , between the intensity of inheritance as exhibited by different lines of descent .
For the first time in this memoir , I believe , the strength of heredity for the eight grand-parental and the eight avuncular relationships is investigated .
The results obtained enable us , at least for eye-colour in man , to make the following statements:\#151 ; ( i ) Let A and B be the grades of relationship , of which A refers to the older generation , and A and B may be of either sex .
Then the variability of all the A 's which have female B 's is invariably greater than the variability of all the A 's which have male B 's .
In other words , women while less variable than men , come of more variable stock .
( ii ) The younger generation takes as a whole more strongly after its male than its female ascendants and higher collaterals .
( iii ) The younger generation is more highly correlated with an ascendant or higher collateral reached by a line passing through one sex only than by a line which changes sex .
( iv ) Men are slightly more highly correlated with their ascendants and higher collaterals than women are .
( 5 ) The memoir concludes by insisting on the need for a wide determination of the intensity and form of inheritance for a great variety of characters in many types of life .
Until this has been achieved , " plasmic mechanics " are merely hypothetical explanations of phenoOn the Retinal Currents of the Frog 's Eye .
327 mena , * of which we have as yet no sufficient cognisance .
They strive to reach the generalisation of a Newton , without the numerical foundations laid by a Tycho Brahe and a Kepler .
" On the Retinal Currents of the Frog 's Eye , excited by Light and excited Electrically .
" By Augustus D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received and Read March 29 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) I. Introduction .
II .
Plan of experiment .
III .
Results .
1 .
A fresh normal eyeball manifests positive current , which gradually declines to zero , and becomes reversed .
2 .
On exposure to light the normal current , whether positive or negative , undergoes a positive variation .
Fm .
1 .
Nor mat response 3 .
The magnitude of the response to light increases with the duration of illumination .
Fm .
2 .
Vott 0-002 * Germ plasma and other theories are invented before we l\lt ; now fully the facts they are supposed to describe .

