" On the Electrolysis of Secondary Compounds/ * In a letter addressed to Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution of Great Britain , &amp; c , &amp;c. By John Frederic Daniell , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in King 's College , London .
The discovery of definite electrochemical action naturally suggests the inquiry into the relative proportion of that part of a voltaic current , which , in the case of its decomposing a saline solution , is car ?
ried by the elements of the water , and that part which is carried by the elements of the saline compound , and into the definite relations , if any such there be , subsisting between the two electrolytes so decomposed .
This question was the origin of the investigation which forms the subject of the present letter .
The power which the author employed in this experimental inquiry was that of a small constant battery of thirty cells , six inches in height , with tubes of earthenware , charged in the manner he has described in his former communications to the Society .
The result of the first experiment evidently indicated that the decomposition of one equivalent of water was accompanied by the decomposition of an exact equivalent of sulphate of soda .
The author then endeavours to ascertain whether the power of the current is equally divided between what had hitherto been regarded as the two equivalent electrolytes .
The first experiments he made in order to determine this point seemed to lead to the ex ?
traordinary conclusion , that the same current which is just sufficient to separate an equivalent of oxygen from an equivalent of hydrogen in one vessel , will at the same time separate an equivalent of oxygen from one of hydrogen , and also an equivalent of sulphuric acid from one of soda in another vessel .
The author then examines the remarkable phenomena relative to the transfer of matter from one electrode to the other without the decomposition of the transported compound ; a phenomenon which was first observed by Mr. Porret in glass cells divided into two compartments by a diaphragm of bladder .
Having observed that the products of electrolyzation cannot be kept long separate in their respective cells , on account of the ulti ?
mate mixture of the liquids on the platinode side of the diaphragm , the author was led to construct an apparatus by which this evil is remedied much more perfectly , and to which he gives the name of the double diaphragm cell .
It consists of two cells , formed of two glass cylinders , with collars at their lower ends , fitted by grinding to a stout glass tube bent into the form of the letter U , and firaily fixed on a wooden post .
The current transmitted by this double cell is more retarded than when passing through the single cell , on account of the greater distance of the electrodes ; but it answers its intended purpose of stopping the transfer of the liquid even in the case of saline solutions , and there is still sufficient conducting power to render it powerfully effective .
Experiments were then made to ascertain whether in the electrolysis of the dilute sulphuric acid any transfer of the acid takes place ; from which the author concludes that during the electrolysis of an equivalent of water , a portion of acid passes over from the platinode to the zincode ; and possibly an equal portion of water also passes over from the zincode to the plati ?
node .
These experiments appear to coniirm the results previously obtained ; namely , that one fourth of an equivalent of sulphuric acid passes from the platinode to the zincode for every single equivalent of a compound which has been electrolyzed by the current .
The author then proceeds to examine the following question , viz. : does the acid during its transfer , in the case of the mixed acid and water , or do the acid and the alkali , in the case of the saline solution , convey any portion of the current which effects the simultaneous decomposition of the water in both instances ?
He next investigates the action of the voltaic current on the aqueous solution of the chlo ?
rides , as the simpler constitution of this class of salts promised to throw some light on the nature of the electrolysis of secondary compounds .
The results of all these experiments tend to the establishment of the fundamental principle , that the force which is measured by its definite action at any one point of a circuit cannot perform more than an equivalent proportion of wrork at any other point of the same circuit ; and that the current , which is measured by its electrolysis of an equivalent of simple chloride of lead , cannot at the same time be sufficient to electrolyze an equivalent of chloride of sodium , and an equivalent of water , at the same electrodes .
The sum of the forces which held together any number of ions , in a compound elec ?
trolyte , could , moreover , only have been equal to the force which held together the elements of a simple electrolyte , electrolyzed at the same moment in one circuit .
In applying these principles to the electrolysis of the solution of sulphate of soda , water seems to be electrolyzed , and at the same time the acid and alkali of the salt appear in equivalent proportions with the oxygen and hydrogen , at their respective electrodes .
It cannot be admitted , that after the decomposition of the water there is any excess of force applicable to the decomposition of the salt ; but it must be concluded that the only electrolyte which yields is the sulphate of soda , the ions of which , however , are not the acid and alkali of the salt , but an anion , composed of an equivalent of sulphur , and four equivalents of oxygen and the metallic cathion , sodium .
From the former , sulphuric acid is formed , at the anode , by secondary action , and the evolution of one equivalent of oxygen ; and from the latter , soda at the cathode , by the secondary action of the metal , and the evolution of an equivalent of hydrogen .
The for ?
mation of these secondary electrolytes , and compound anions and cathions , will probably furnish the key to the explanation of many of those decompositions and recompositions , to which the presence of water is necessary , such as those of nitric acid on the metals , and the formation of Schcenbein 's circuit : but the author reserves for a future opportunity the examination of this hypothesis , as well as of the general question .

