On a IMethod of comparing the Light of the Sun with that of the fixed Stars .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. Read December 11 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 19 .
] In the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1767 , a suggestion is thrown out by Mr. Michell , that a comparison between the light received from the sun and any of the fixed stars , might furnish data for estimating their relative distances ; but no such direct comparison had been attempted .
Dr. Wollaston was led to infer from some observations that he made in the year 1799 , that the direct light of the sun is about one million times more intense than that of the full moon , and therefore very many million times greater than that of all the fixed stars taken collectively .
In order to compare the light of the sun with that of a star , he took , as an intermediate object of comparison , the light of a candle reflected from a small bulb , about a quarter of an inch in diameter , filled with quicksilver , and seen , by one eye , through a lens of two inches focus , at the same time that the star or the sun 's image , placed at a proper distance , was viewed by the other eye through a telescope .
The mean of various trials seemed to show that the light of Sirius is equal to that of the sun seen in a glass bulb one tenth of an inch in diameter , at the distance of 210 feet , or that they are in the proportion of one to ten thousand millions ; but as nearly one half of the light is lost by reflection , the real proportion between the light from Sirius and the sun is not greater than that of one to twenty thousand millions .
If the annual parallax of Sirius be half a second , corresponding to a distance of 525,481 times that of the sun from the earth , its diameter would be 3'7 times that of the sun , and its light 13 8 times as great .
The distance at which the sun would require to be viewed , so that its brightness might be only equal to that of Sirius , would be 141,421 times its present distance ; and if still in the ecliptic , its annual parallax in longitude would be nearly 3 " ; but if situated at the same angular distance from the ecliptic as Sirius is , it would have an annual parallax , in latitude , of 1V -8 .

