]\gt ; Sir A. Schuster .
in the constant of the regression-equation within a trimester which will affect the coefficients .
We know also that at the surface there are speciinens of at the same pressure with very different temperatures ; and if these specimens passed to the pressure of the assigned levels by change of pressure alone , the same pressures would have differeIlt tenlperatures at those levels .
Hence in random sampling one get temperature changes without pressure changes , and versed .
Also the water-content of the a great influence upon the temperature change due to pressure change .
Further , Dines has indicated that if at any level isobars are also isotherms , there is no change of wind with .
This is sometimes true for a considerable range of height , sometimes not .
Why ?
The present paper is an vitation to somebody to take the next step in explaining the departures from these laws of the upper atmosphere .
On the Absorption Scattering of Light .
By SIR SCHUSTER , F.R.S. ( Received October 28 , 1920 .
) When a beam of light passes a material medinm it suffers gradual extinction , mainly through molecular scattering , but partly also through conversion into heat .
The two processes should be clearly distinguished , as there is some danger of confusing the issue if the term ' absorption\ldquo ; is applied to what is a mere diversion of the light energy from its original direction .
It is easy to form an idea of the mechanism involved in scattering , but the process of absorption is more difficult to represent analytically .
In order to obtain a clearer view of its fundamental featm.es , I pose to discuss the transmission of light through a medium the molecules of which have only one free period of vibration .
We may base the discussion on th differential equation the position of an oscillator .
( 1 ) Its well-known solution is , ( 2 ) where the Absorption of Light .
For subsequent use we may express the first term in a more convenient form .
Writing , Put : where ; ; ( 3 ) from which we find .
( 4 ) If in ( 1 ) , we obtain what is called the free vibration , and its mathematical expression suggests that the frictional term has lengthened the period in the io of .
I desile , in the first place , to challenge this interpretation .
It has a substantial meaning when we can follow with our eyes the movement of a material body such as that of a damped galva1lometer needle , but in the case of a luminous disturbance the only means at our disposal to determine its periods is to analyse the light by spectroscopic methods , and the first and obvious conclusion to be drawn is that the factor destroys the homo , eneity of the light .
In the of the spectroscopist , the light is no longer concentrated into a line , but drawn out into a band .
The band , no doubt ; is narrow when is small compared with , and the original statement might still be justified if were the frequency for which the intensity is a llaximu But , as will be shown , this is not true .
In the problem here considered , the of the intensity , on the contrary , takes place at a frequency , and is therefore the same as if there were no frictional term .
1 return to equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , in order to them into closer connection with the actual problem to be treated .
We never deal with a perfectly homogeneous source of light , and the right-han side should therefore not be confined to a value of .
In the inlporlant case of white light , we in ( 1 ) for , with the proviso that will depend ou in a perfectly ular manner .
The value of also fluctuates , but its value in the neighbourhood of a arCicular value of will be deterlnined by the distribution of intensities along the spectrum of the incident light .
We may provisionally treat it as constant , because in ) of light the value of is very small , so that the oscillations are appreciable in the immediate hbourhood of .
The distribution of intetlsities in the rest of the spectrum does not matter .
During their motion the particles are subject to the influence of other molecules , which may through impacts and therefore be discontinuous .
2.50 Sir A. Schuster .
We must therefore add to the second term of ( 2 ) a number of similar , and the completed equation now becomes , ( 5 ) where stands for , and the summation includes all values of at which the velocity becomes discontinuous , owing to rnolecular encounters .
Each term comes int effect at time , when it contributes an initial velocity .
The phase is not the same as in ( 2 ) , but depends on My proposition now is that all the terms of are spectroscopically identical .
represent disturbances which , when analysed by a prism or grating , can ditf'er only by a constant multiplier , the relative values of the along the spectrum being the same .
To those familiar with the view , first ested by Gouy and the late Lord Bayleigh , light may be represented as of a series of discontinuous and ularly distributed impulses , and that , when the intensities within unit range of frequency are constant along the spectrum , these } ) ulses are of infinitely short duration , the proposition which I have stated will be self-evident .
There can be no distinction between the effect of the impulses due to light and those that have their origin in molecular encounters .
Any discrimination between and free vibrations when white light is the source of ceases to have a meaning .
The spectroscopical identity of the different terms of ( 5 ) is of some importance in illustrating the proportionality of radiation and absorption in enclosures of uniform temperature .
extinction of the transmitted beam depends entirely on the first term , radiation to some extent on the others ; they must therefore all show the same distribution of intensities for different frequencies if the proportionality is to hold .
Those to whom the above reasoning is not convincing , must take the longer path of applying Fourier 's integrals:\mdash ; Let be a function having zero value up to time , and then to continue as mt , so that is the initial velocity .
By Fourier 's theorem , .
( 6 ) Let ; and put ; ; from which it follows that ; \mdash ; and On the Absorption and ttering of Light .
By integration we find ; , PQ ; Equation ( 6 ) then becomes where This p , roves the proposition , for it shows that , for all positive values of , where .
For ative values of , the right-hand side is zero .
By a proper adjustment of the origin of time and of the constants , the integral can therefore be made to represent any term which appears in the summatlon on the right-hand side of ( 5 ) .
If be a variable on , the motion ceases to be discontinuous , and may be ) to represent an endless series of waves , such as constitutes white light , but this does not affect the distribution of energy among its constituents .
Confining ourselves to the first term of ( 5 ) , we obtain by differentiation , the intensities to be assigned to a range of frequency , , are , by a theorem of the late Lord Rayleigh , *proportional to It is easily seen that the maximum takes place when , and this applies to the oscillation defined by the second term of ( 2 ) .
The investigation has been given in a form which applies equally to the electromagnetic theory which equation ( 1 ) is only approximately correct .
According to Planck and Abraham , in the absence of outer forces , we must replace ( 1 ) by : Assuming a solution of the form , where is complex , the condition to be satisfied is The constant , as will appear , is very small , and neglecting , therefore , the 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 268 .
Sir A. Schuster .
middle term , we obtain , as a first approximation , .
Substituting , therefore , for in the middle term , we find , as a second approximation , which gives , writing , as a second approxin ) ation , , and hence The previous equations may therefore be applied with the proviso that is now proportional to the square of the frequency .
A few words should be said on the numerical value of .
For a simple oscillator carrying an electric , the total energy radiated into space is known .
If be the energy of the oscillator , it is found that , where is the mass of the electron and the velocity of .
The diminution of energy being proportional to , the value of is given by .
Hence in terms of the wave-length is .
Substituting for , we find for the value .
For blue light , this is ) the order .
For the tant which occurs in the electromagnetic theory , we have , which gives .
The small value of enables us to conclude that it can only affect our calculations in the region in which is so nearly equal to that our spectroscopic appliances cannot distinguish between them .
In explaining the so-called anomalous dispersion , can be left out of account altogether .
As regards the rate of propagation of waves through such a medium as we are considering , it is important to notice that while the terms of equation ( 3 ) are spectroscopically identical there is this important diff'erence ; the phases of the terms under the summation are independent of the incident light , but those which are under the integral sign are determined by it .
Each light impulse produces a molecular oscillation which is definitely related to it , and combines with it in forming the wave-front .
This accounts for the retardation which determines the refractive index .
In order to show more clearly the effect of scattering on wave-propagation , we must return to the consideration of the analytical for the forced vibration due to eneous light .
The differential equation for the electric vector ( R ) , transmitted through a medium , containing oscillators is If the changes of the optical properties of a medium be entirely due to the On the Absorption and Scattering of Light .
oscillators , the wave must be propagated as in vacuo if .
Hence we may write for Assuming the disturbance to be simply periodic , the displacement has two components , one in phase with and the other in phase with , and we may therefore write If be the wave-length , a solution of the form ( 7 ) leads to the conditions .
( 8 ) We may draw from equations the important conclusion that if be negligible the refractive index depends entirely on the componenC of , which is in phase with , and that the coefficient of extinction depends mainly on the co1uponent at right angles to R. The values of A and be written down from ( 3 ) , remembering that now replaces , and that the factor should be applied on the right-hand side of ( 1 ) if equation is to represent correctly the motion of electron having mass .
Hence ( 4 ) becomes : The three equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) allow us to eliminate A and B. The exponential factor in ( 7 ) shows that unless the body absorbs an appreciable portion of the when the thickness is a fraction of a millimetre , the value of is small .
Neglecting , therefore , in the first instance , the first equation gives , ( 10 ) while the second equation bined with ( 9 ) gives .
( 11 ) Hence .
( 12 ) The value of is determined by the radiation of an electric oscillator .
lt has already been referred to as equal to , where is equal to the velocity of in the medinm .
Remembering is equal to equation ( 10 ) can be brought into the foruI .
( 13 ) The left-hand side represents the coefficient of extinction of the intensity of light , and if on the right-hand side be expressed in terms of the wave-length , the equation is identical with Lord Rayleigh 's , provided that On the Absorption and Scattering of Light .
: is small , so that with a sufficient decree of accuracy .
If higher powers of are to be taken into account should replace in ( 13 ) .
Our equation has been confined to media possessing only oscillators of one kind .
If that limitation be dropped , A and in equations ( 8 ) vould have to be replaced by their average value taking account of the difference in the corresponding frequencies .
In equation ( 9 ) on the other hand we should have to replace by its average value .
We cannot in this case proceed as before with the elimination of and B. when , as in the case of most transparent media , the refractive indices are known to depend on oscillators the periods of which are far removed from that to which the refractive index refers , the error introduced will be small .
We turn our attention next to the absorption which is due to the conversion of the energy of the ators into heat .
By the influence of molecular encounters or otherwise the amplitudes of the oscillations are reduced until a state of equilibrium is reached .
The values of A and will thus be lowered .
If the elfect of the degradation of energy is proportional to the energy of the oscillators , we may account for it by applying the factor to the right-hand side of ( 10 ) .
But if is now made to refer to the total extinction of light , we must leave equation ( 11 ) as it stands , because the energy which now appears as heat is the exact equivalent of that by which the scattered light is diminished .
As a result of the elimination of now becomes It should be remembered that is the coefficient of the extinction of energy , so that the intensity of the transmitted light is Onr equations bring cut clearly how erroneous is the common impression the so-called anomalous ref.raction is due to the absorption of light in the medium .
It is , on the contrary , the perfectly normal result of the changes in refractivity introduced by the excited vibrations of the oscillators ; and of the scattering of fJht which accompanies them .
True absorption , i.e. , direct conversion into heat , acts , on the contrary , in the direction of the influence of the molecular oscillations on refractivity .
At present we possess no available data to determine the quantity .
on which the absorption depends .

