192 The Ratio between Spindle Lengths in the Spermatocyte -phases of Helix pomatia .
By C. F. U. Meek , M.Sc .
, F.L.S. , F.Z.S. ( Communicated by Sir W. T. Thiselton Dyer , K.C.M.G. , C.I.E. , F.R.S. Received July 15 , \#151 ; Read December 4 , 1913 .
) [ Plate 12 .
] Introduction .
I have recently shown that in Forficiuricularia the length of the mitotic spindle , i.e. the distance between the centrosomes , seems to be a constant at the conclusion of each spermatocyte metaphase .
The ratio between the lengths found at this stage is almost identical with the ratio between the radii of two spheres of which the volume of one is equal to twice that of the other ; and , since the volume of the primary spermatocyte cell in the metaphase is presumably equal to twice that of the secondary spermatocyte , connection is suggested between the length of the spindle and the volume of the cell .
I now propose to measure spindle lengths in the spermatocyte metaphases of Helix pomatia .
As in the case of Forficula , the chromosomes are spheres or very short rods , and all seem to divide on the spindle at the same time ; the conclusion of each metaphase is therefore easily recognised .
If the lengths are found to be constants , and if the ratio between them is approximately R26:1 , the connection .between spindle length and cell volume is again suggested : if , on the other hand , lengths are not constants , or if the ratio between them is not approximately that mentioned above , the suggested connection is at once disproved .
Material and Methods .
The material , which consisted of the hermaphrodite gland , was obtained at the end of May , and was preserved in Flemming 's strong chromo-aceto-osmic acid fluid and the platino-aceto-osmic acid fluid of Hermann .
The material remained in the fixative for 12 hours , and , after being washed thoroughly in running water and passed through successive strengths of alcohol , was embedded in paraffin .
Sections were cut 8 / x thick with an ordinary Cambridge rocking microtome .
The stains used were Heidenhain 's iron heematoxylin and iron brazilin , * * Hickson , S. J. , 'Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' 1901 , vol. 44 .
Spindle Lengths in Spermatocyte Metaphases of Helix pomatia .
193 and both have given excellent results .
The latter , which affects the cytoplasm as well as the chromatin , enables spindle fibres to be seen very distinctly ; and all drawings on the plate have accordingly been made from sections thus stained .
In the case of the iron hematoxylin , the slides were placed for four hours in the mordant , which was an aqueous solution of ferric alum , and were then stained for 12 hours ; in the case of the iron brazilin , the slides remained for two hours in a solution of ferric alum in 70-per-cent , alcohol , and were then placed in the stain for 15 hours .
The preparations were studied with a Zeiss apocliromatic oil-immersion objective of 2 mm. focus and N.A. 1*30 , and compensating oculars Nos. 4 , 6 , 12 , and 18 .
The light was obtained from an inverted incandescent gas burner , and was passed through a Gifford screen and the holoscopic oil-immersion substage condenser of Messrs. Watson and Sons , of London .
All drawings were made with a large Abbe camera lucida at one magnification , which was estimated with a stage micrometer graduated to read one-hundredth part of a millimetre .
Possible distortion was prevented by levelling the microscope platform and drawing table ; and , in order to minimize error due to foreshortening , measurements have been made only of spindles of which the major axes lay at right angles to the microscopic line of vision , i.e. spindles of which the centrosomes could be brought into focus simultaneously .
I have tried to eliminate inaccuracy of draughtsmanship by drawing the centrosomes of each spindle many times and upon several occasions ; moreover , the lengths found by me have been checked by independent measurements made by my assistant , Mr. Bussell Goddard .
The Length of the Mitotic Spindle at the Conclusion of the Primary Spermatocyte Metaphase .
Fig. 1 of the plate represents a polar view of the primary spermatocyte complex .
I have not attempted to count the chromosomes on the various spindles ; but recent investigations seem to show that the number is 48 in the spermatogonial and 24 in the spermatocyte cells .
The chromosomes are short thick rods , and do not differ from one another greatly in size .
Figs. 2 to 12 inclusive are drawings of lateral views of the spindle at the conclusion of this metaphase ; in each figure constriction of the chromosomes is seen to have been completed , and the daughter rods , apposed to one another in the equatorial plane , are ready to move apart .
These drawings have been made at a magnification of 650 diameters from sections in the hermaphrodite glands of several individuals , and the length of the spindle is the same in all .
This length has been found in every primary spermatocyte cell studied at this stage , and , at the known magnification , represents 15*3 194 Mr. C. F. U. Meek .
The Ratio In the circumstances we have reason for believing that the length of the spindle is a constant at the conclusion of the primary spermatocyte metaphase .
The Length of the Mitotic Spindle at the Conclusion of the Secondary Spermatocyte Metaphase .
Fig. 13 represents a polar view of the equatorial plate in this metaphase .
The chromosomes are noticeably smaller than those of the preceding cell generation .
Figs. 14 to 23 inclusive are drawings of lateral views of the spindle at the conclusion of the metaphase , i.e. at the moment when constriction of the chromosomes is complete .
As in the case of figs. 2-12 , these drawings have been made at a magnification of 650 diameters from sections in the hermaphrodite glands of several specimens .
The length of the spindle , estimated from the magnification , is invariably 12T / / , ; and , since the centro-somes have been found to be equidistant in all secondary spermatocyte cells studied at this stage , we seem again to be dealing with a constant .
The Ratio between the Lengths of the Mitotic Spindle the Conclusion of the Primary and Secondary Spermatocyte Metaphases .
, I have already remarked that in Forauricularia the ratio between the lengths of the mitotic spindle at the conclusion of the two spermatocyte metaphases is almost identical with the ratio between the radii of two spheres of which the volume of one is equal to twice that of the other .
The former ratio is F28 : 1*00 , and the latter ratio is F26 : F00 .
Now the lengths of the spindle found- -for the conclusion of these metaphases in Helix pomaiia are 15'3 and 12*1 g respectively , and the ratio between them is F26 : l'OO .
No period of growth separates the primary and secondary spermatocyte mitoses in this organism ; the connection between spindle length and cell volume is therefore again suggested .
The accuracy of my measurements seems to be confirmed by the work of Demoll .
In a paper published last year upon the spermatogenesis of Helix pomatia , he gives two drawings respectively representing the lengths of the mitotic spindle in the primary and secondary spermatocyte metaphases .
We are not told at what stage of the inetapliase these drawings were made , nor is the magnification mentioned ; but the lengths shown are 29*7 and 240 mm. , and the ratio between them is F24 : F00 .
Demoll , however , appears to have seen no possible significance in these relative lengths ; for he dismissed the matter by saying that the length of the spindle decreases only slightly when the cell volume is halved .
Lengths in the Spermatocyte Metaphases of Helix pomatia .
195 Measurements of Spindle Lengths made by an Independent Investigator .
During this research I wrote upon the subject to Dr. von Winiwarter , who very kindly offered to measure spindle lengths in the spermatocyte metaphases of man .
I have since received a letter , in which he says : " J'ai effectue un serie de mensurations sir les fuseaux des spermatocytes I et II chez l'homme , et constat^ qu'il y a un ldgere difference de longueur entre les deux .
Cette difference est trop faible pour 6tre reconnue autrement que par des mensurations .
Je vous envoie en meme temps quelques uns des croquis .
qui m'ont servi a calculer les rapports .
Ils sont faits \amp ; un grossissement de 2400 diametres avec le systeme d'ocul .
et d'object .
employ pour tous les dessins de mon travail sir la spermatogenese humaine ( ' Arch , de Biol. ' ) .
J'ai simplement indique les corpuscles centraux , le debut du fuseau et les contours du corps cellulaire .
Je n'ai pas dessine les chromosomes ; ceux-ci sont exaetement au moment oil ils sont ranges regulierement a l'bquateur et vont se diviser .
Les fuseaux sont bien paralleles a la table du microscope et dans un seule coupe .
Yous constaterez vous meme que l'analogie avec forficula est tellement complete que le rapport entre les fuseaux I et II est aussi 1-26:1-00 .
" The camera lucida drawings enclosed in this letter represent five primary and five secondary spermatocyte metaphases .
The length of the spindle is 24 mm. in each of the former , and 19 mm. in the latter ; and , since the magnification is 2400 diameters , the lengths in the cell must be 100 and 7'9 y respectively .
Examples of these drawings are given below at a slightly Camera lucida drawings of spindles in the spermatocyte metaphases of Man .
A. Primary spermatocyte .
B. Secondary spermatocyte .
X 2270 .
reduced magnification .
In the circumstances the ratio that I have observed in Forficula cturicularia and Helix pomatia is shown to exist in material belonging to a third phylum ; and I take this opportunity of again thanking Dr. von Winiwarter for his kindness in making the measurements and allowing me to publish the results .
Mr. C. F. U. Meek .
The Ratio between Spindle Conclusion .
Whether the connection suggested between spindle length and cell volume in the metaphase is likely to be established or not is impossible for us to say : the proposition that I have put forward is at present entirely speculative .
But the results of research have shown that at the stage in question the ratio between spindle lengths is approximately the same in the spermatocytes of Helix pomatia , Forjicula auricularia , and man\#151 ; organisms representing three phyla of the animal kingdom .
Moreover , consideration of the lengths found in these organisms proves that the length of the spindle in the metaphase cannot be correlated with the volume of the chromatin .
This is important ; for in an earlier paper 1 have produced evidence to show that increasing somatic complexity is accompanied by increase of chromatin volume in the cell .
The failure of current theories of mitosis is largely due to the absence of data from which to draw conclusions ; and , since either proof or disproof of my proposition must constitute a new generalisation , I intend to carry out further and similar cytometrical investigations , of which the results will appear in subsequent papers .
Summary .
1 .
The length of the mitotic spindle , the distance between the centro-somes , is 15*3 y at the conclusion of each primary spermatocyte metaphase of Helix pomatia .
2 .
The length of the mitotic spindle is 12T p , at the conclusion of each secondary spermatocyte metaphase of H 3 .
The ratio between the lengths of the mitotic spindle at the conclusion of the primary and secondary spermatocyte metaphases is approximately the same in Helix pomatia , Forjicula auand man ; and , since these ratios are either identical or almost identical with the ratio between the radii of two spheres of which the relative volumes are the same as those of the cells in question , connection may exist between spindle length and cell volume at this stage .
4 .
A comparison of mitotic figures in Helix pomatia , Forjicula auricularia , and man proves that the length of the spindle in spermatocyte metaphases cannot be correlated with the volume of chromatin in the cell .
12 .
Id. 20 .
21 .
22 .
23 .
Lengths in the Spermatocyte Metaphases of Helix pomatia .
197 BIBLIOGRAPHY .
Demoll , B. , 1912 .
" Die Spermatogenese von Helix pomatia , L. , " ' Zool. Jahrb .
, ' Supplement XY , vol. 2.* Meek , C. F. U. , 1912 .
" A Metrical Analysis of Chromosome Complexes , showing Correlation of Evolutionary Development and Chromatin Thread-width throughout the Animal Kingdom , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 203 .
Meek , C. F. U. , 1912 .
" The Correlation of Somatic Characters and Chromatin Rodlengths , being a Further Study of Chromosome Dimensions , " ' Journ. Linn. Soc. Zool. , ' vol. 32 .
Meek , C. F. U. , 1913 .
" The Problem of Mitosis , " 'Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , 'vol .
58 , Part IV .
Meek , C. F. IT .
, 1913 .
" The Metaphase Spindle in the Spennatogenetic Mitosis of Forficula auricularia , " ibid. , vol. 59 , Part II .
Winiwarter , H. von , 1912 .
" Etudes sir la Spermatogenese humaine , " 'Arch , de Biol. , ' vol. 27 .
EXPLANATION 'OF THE PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Polar view of primary spermatocyte complex .
Figs. 2-12.\#151 ; Lateral views of spindle at conclusion of the primary spermatocyte metaphase , showing completed constriction of chromosomes .
In each figure the length of the spindle , estimated from the magnification , is 15'3 p. Fig. 13.\#151 ; Polar view of secondary spermatocyte complex .
Figs. 14-23.\#151 ; Lateral views of spindle at conclusion of the secondary spermatocyte metaphase , showing completed constriction of chromosomes .
In each figure the length of the spindle , estimated from the magnification , is 12T / x. Fig. 24.\#151 ; Divisions of stage micrometer , 10 / i apart , showing magnification of figs. 1-23 inclusive .
* A list of publications dealing with the spermatogenesis of Helix is given in the bibliography of this paper .

