On a new fulminating Mercury .
By Edward Howard , Esq. F.R.S. Read March 13 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 204 .
] We learn from the introduction to this paper , that mercury , and most , if not all , its oxides , may , by treatment with nitric acid and alcohol , be converted into a crystallized compound , possessing all the inflammable properties of gunpowder , as well as many others peculiar to itself .
After stating the gradual steps by which he arrived at this discovery , Mr. Howard describes the following process and manipulations , which lie found best calculated for producing this powder .
One hundred grains , or a greater proportional quantity , of quicksilver , are to be dissolved with heat in a measured ounce and a half of nitric acid .
This solution being poured cold upon two measured ounces of alcohol , a moderate heat is to be applied , until an effervescence is excited .
A white fume then begins to undulate on the surface of the liquor , and the powder will be gradually precipitated upon the cessation of action and re-action .
This precipitate is to be imtmediately collected on a filter , well washed with distilled water , and carefully dried in a heat not much exceeding that of a waterbath .
This immediate edulcoration of the powder is material , it being liableto the re-action of the nitric acid , which , while any of that acid adheres to it , renders it subject to the influence of light .
The quantity of the powder produced varies according to the nature of the ingredients ; 100 grains of quicksilver yielding from 120 to 132 grains of the compound .
The principal agents which decompose this mercurial powder are the nitric , the sulphuric , and the muriatic acids .
The most remarkable effect is that of the sulphuric acid , which , when much concentrated , produces an explosion nearly at the instant of contact , on account , it is thought , of the sudden and copious disengagement of the caloric .
When the acid is less concentrated , no explosion takes place ; but a considerable discharge of gas , as well as caloric , is nevertheless effected ; the former appearing to be a compound of carbonic acid and a peculiar inflammable gas , amounting in the whole to between 28 and 31 cubical inches .
The inflammable gas was upon close examination found to be a nitrous aetherized gas , which appears to have been no.t the result of the decomposition , but , in fact , a constituent part of the powder .
Upon the whole of the investigation , Mr. Howard concludes that this mercurial powder is composed of nitrous wetherized gas , and of otalate of mercury with excess of oxygen .
Having stated his reasons for maintaining this opinion , he goes-on to explain the theory of the combustion of the mercurial powder , on certain principles previously laid doNwn in the investigation .
The hydrogen , he says , of the oxalic tcid and of the etherized gas is first united to the oxygen of the oxalate , forming water ; the carbon is saturated-with oxygen , forming carbonic acid gas ; and a part , if not the whole of the nitrogen of the aetherized gas is separated in the state of nitrogen gas ; both which gases are evidently produced after the decomposition of the powder .
The mercury is now revived , and converted into vapour , as may be gathered from the immense quantity of caloric extricated , by adding concentrate sulphuric acid to the mercurial powder .
On a more minute analysis he finds the proportion of these ingredients in 100 grains of the mercurial powder to be as follows ; Grains , Of pure oxalic acid ... ... ... .
21-28 Of mercury formerly united to the oxalic acid ... .
60 72 Of mercury dissolved in thesulphuric liquor ... .
2,00 Of mercury left in the sulphuric liquor after the separation of the gases ... ... ... ... 200 Total of mercury ... ... ... -64 72 Of nitrous setherized gas and excess of oxygen ... ... . .
14-00 100-00 The following are the principal properties of this singular powder : -it takes fire at the temperature of 368 ?
of Fahrenheit ; it explodes by friction , by flint and steel , and by being thrown into concentrate sulphuric acid .
It is equally inflammable under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump , as when surrounded by atmospheric air ; and it detonates loudly , both by the blow of a hammer and a strong electrical shock , Its action , though extremely powerful , is however cdnfined within a very limited sphere .
It will burst a gun-barrel , though it will not carry a ball to any considerable distance .
Mr. Howard does not fail to caution future operators concerning the experiments they may be tempted to make on this powerful agent , having hlimself suffered considerably from an instantaneous explosion , produced by pouring six drams of concentrated sulphuric acid upon fifty grains of the powder , which wounded him severely , and destroyed the best part of his apparatus .
This uncommon elastic power is ultimately ascribed to the gas and caloric suddenly set at liberty , and to the mercury and some Iportion of water being converted into vapour .
The paper concludes with some observations on other fulminating powders , where the author acknowledges that he has in vain attempted to communicate fulminating properties , by the mercurial process , to gold , platina , silver , antimony , tin , copper , iron , lead , zinc , nickel , bismuth , cobalt , arsenic , and manganese ; mercury being as yet the only metal which he has found to have a joint affinity with nitrous aetherized gas and oxalic acid , or to be capable of combining with nitrous astherized gas .
c 3

