I. " Researches conducted for the Medical Department of the Privy Council , at the Pathological Laboratory of St. Thomas 's Hospital .
" ByJ .
L. W. THUDICHUM , M.D. Communicated by JOHN SIMON , Esq. Third Series.-Results of Researches on Luteine and the Spectra of Yellow Organic Substances contained in Animals and Plants .
Received November 11 , 1868 .
1 .
Name.-Various parts of animals and plants contain a yellow crystallizable substance which has hitherto not been defined , and to which , from its prominent property , I assign the name of " luteine .
" 2 .
Occurrence.-It occurs normally in the corpora lutea of the ovaries of mammals , in the serum of the blood , the cells of the adipose tissue , and the yellow fat of the secretion of the mammary gland , or butter ; in mammals it occurs abnormally in ovarian tumours and cysts , and in serous effusions .
It is a regular ingredient of the yelks of the eggs of oviparous animals .
In the vegetable world it is observed in seeds , such as maize ; in the husks and pulps of fruits , such as anatto ; in roots , such as carrots ; in leaves , such as those of the coleus ; and in the stamina and petals of a great variety of flowers .
3 .
Properties.-Luteine is easily soluble in alcohol , ether , and chloroform , but is insoluble in water .
It is soluble in albuminous liquids , such as the contents of ovarian cysts and the serum of the blood .
All these solutions are yellow ; but the chloroform solution when concentrated has an orange-red colour .
4 .
Spectrum.-The spectrum of these solutions is distinguished by great brilliancy of the red , yellow , and green part , and by three absorption-bands , which are situated in the blue , indigo , and violet part of the spectrum .
The positions of the absorption-bands vary a little with the different solvents .
AaBC -c D 35 aG i ' Ovario-luteine in alcohol .
Egg-luteine in ether .
5 .
Crystallization.-The crystals of luteine are apparently rhombic plates , as shown in the accompanying figure , of which two or more are 253 1869 .
] always superposed in a curious mannier .
Possibly these crystals may be rhombohedra imperfectly developed on four of their edges .
They are microscopic , yellow when thin , orange to red when thick , and have no resemblance to any other known animal or vegetable substance .
6 .
Reactionzs.-Luteine combines with few substances , mercury-acetate being perhaps the only ordinary reagent by which it is immediately and completely precipitated , as a yellow deposit .
Mercury-nitrate produces a yellow precipitate , which on standing becomes white .
Nitric acid poured over the crystals produces a blue colour , which immediately passes into yellow .
The blue is not produced when nitric acid is added to either alcohol , chloroform , or ether solution , but appears with the solution in acetic acid and disappears again rapidly .
7 .
Affinity for Fats .
In the corpora lutea luteine is deposited in granules , which become the darker and larger the older the corpora grow .
In the yelks of eggs it also exists in granules ; and when extracted from any of these bodies it is always mixed with a considerable amount of an oily fat which contains cerebrine , and neutral fats , amongst them a peculiar fat containing phosphorus , like cerebrine .
In butter after clarification it is found dissolved .
8 .
Affinity for Albumen.-On the other hand , luteine has great attraction to albumen , and can only with difficulty be extracted from serum or the fluid of ovarian cysts .
9 .
Luteine in Vegetables.- In vegetable matters luteine is contained in such a form that a clear watery solution cannot easily be obtained .
All vegetable matters , however , readily yield their luteine to alcohol , and form by proper treatment clear solutions .
In maize , luteine is accompanied by fats which are somewhat similar to those of eggs .
10 .
Type of new Spectra.--The spectrum of luteine is the type of the spectra of a series of bodies which are probably chemically identical ; but not all yellow vegetable , animal , or chemical products are identical with luteine .
11 .
New Spectra like that of Luteine.-The yellow-coloured matters of the following plants present the spectrum of luteine , or one closely resembling it:-(1 ) Crocus or saffron ( stamina ) ; ( 2 ) Ilelianthus annuus ( flower ) ; the petals of the following plants-(3 ) Leontodon taraxacum , ( 4 ) Leontodon ( varietas ?
) , ( 5 ) Gazania elegans , ( 6 ) Marigold common , ( 7 ) Hypericum oblongifolium , ( 8 ) Acacia leprosa , ( 9 ) Galphimia splendens , ( 10 O ) Stigmzatophyllumi ciliatum , ( II 1 ) Lankesteria elegans , ( 12 ) Allamanda neriifolia , ( 13 ) Colutea frutescens , ( 14 ) Tagetes lucida , ( 15 ) Sehkuhria atrovirens , ( 16 ) Diplotaxis tenuifolia , ( 17 ) Virgilia sylvatica , ( 18 ) Einothera grandifgora , ( 19 ) Verbascum phlomoides , ( 20 ) Tagetes pumila , ( 21 ) Helianthus macrophyllus , ( 22 ) Chrysopsis villosa , ( 23 ) Heleniumn autumnale , ( 24 ) Obeliscaria pinnata , ( 25 ) Heliopsis leevis , ( 26 ) Linosyris vulgaris , ( 27 ) Berberis Darwinii , ( 28 ) Solidago serotina , ( 29 ) Ruta graveolens , ( 30 ) Melilotus elegans , ( 31 ) Medicago 254 elegans , ( 32 ) Allamanda Hendersonii ; ( 33 ) the root of the common carrot , Daucus carota ; ( 34 ) the seeds of Indian corn , Zea mays .
The extracts of the berries of the following plants also give the luteine spectrum:-(35 ) Anatto ; ( 36 ) Asparagus ; ( 37 ) Physalis Alkekengi ( outer shell and inner berry ) ; ( 38 ) Solanum dulcamara ; ( 39 ) Solanum capsicastrum ; ( 40 ) Cyphomandra betacea ; ( 41 ) Crataegus crus-galli ; ( 42 ) Pyrus aria .
12 .
Uncertainty.- In several of these matters only two absorption-bands are with certainty distinguished .
The third , clearly observable e.g. in the extract from the common marigold , requires further researches with more powerful light .
13 .
Yellow Bodies with one Band.-The yellow principles contained in yellow-wood or fustic , in the flowers of the Calceolaria of ornamental gardens , and in the yellow faeces of sucking infants , show but one absorption-band , in the blue .
14 .
Uranium Salts.-The yellow solutions of uranium salts exhibit two absorption-bands in the blue , which are very different from any of the above bands .
15 .
Spectra of Yellow Bodies with continued Absorption of Blue.-A great number of yellow substances , amongst them some of the most important dye-stuffs , show spectra with continued absorption of blue , indigo , and violet , without any bands .
On dilution the absorption gradually recedes towards violet .
To this class belong ( 1 ) Rhamnine , from French berries ; ( 2 ) Luteoline , from weld ; ( 3 ) Quercitrine , from extract of quercitron or fluorine ; ( 4 ) Turmeric ; ( 5 ) Picric , and ( 6 ) Purree , or Indian yellow ; the orange-coloured solution of the petals of ( 7 ) Coreopsis lanceolata , ( 8 ) Helichrysum bracteatum ; the light-yellow solution of ( 9 ) Viola lutea , ( 10 ) Acacia decurrens , ( 11 ) Helianthus macrophyllus( ?
) , ( 12 ) Berberis Darwinii ( ?
) , ( 13 ) Gnaphaliumfcetidum .
16 .
Luteine not identical with Hematoidine or Cholophceine.-Luteine differs entirely from hematoidine on the one , and from cholophaeine on the other hand , and ought not , and after the elucidation of its spectral phenomena cannot , any longer be confounded with either of them .
17 .
Error of Stiideler and Holm.-The bodies described by Holm and Stadeler under the name of hematoidine are not hematoidine , but luteine .
18 .
Robin 's Hematoidine is Cholophaeine.-The bodies described by Valentiner , and by Robin , Rich , and Mercier , under the name of hematoidine , are not hematoidine , but cholophaeine or bilirubine .
19 .
Hematoidine peculiar .
Hematoidine is a useful expression for certain microscopical crystals and amorphous bodies occurring in effused blood , the substance of which has not as yet been chemically isolated or defined .
20 .
Luteine leads to new morphological views.-The discovery of the identity of luteine from corpora lutea of mammals with that from yelks of eggs will probably lead to a revision of the present doctrines regarding the 1869 .
] 255 homologies of the various parts of the ova of mammals and the eggs of birds and lower animals .
Chemically the corpus luteum is the homologue of the yelk , genetically it is nearly so ; but its use and destiny are totally different .
Note.-The foregoing researches are technical parts of inquiries carried on by the author at the Pathological Laboratory , St. Thomas 's Hospital , for the Medical Department of the Privy Council , in continuation of researches already published in the Ninth and Tenth Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council .
The special thanks of the author are due to Dr. Hooker , Director of the Royal Botanical Gardens , Kew , for the kindness and liberality with which he supplied , through Mr. Smith , the Curator , most of the botanical specimens examined in the course of this research .

