XV .
" On the Development of Striated Muscular Fibre .
" By WILSON Fox , M.D. , Professor of Pathological Anatomy in University College , London .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY .
Received June 15 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) The discrepancies in the statements made by various observers on the structure , as illustrated by the history of the development , of striated muscular fibre , have induced the author to submit the question to a renewed and independent investigation .
Hie has examined the process in the tadpole , the chick , the sheep , and in man , and with results which correspond very closely in all these classes .
The investigation is most easy in the tadpole , as the early structures are of much larger size ; but observations are made with a comparatively greater precision when high magnifying powers are employed .
The author has used 900 linear in his observations on the tadpole , 1250 or 1850 linear in his observations on the chick and mammalia .
The earliest form in which muscular tissue appears in the tadpole is an oval body containing one or more nuclei , and densely filled with pigmentary matter .
This body has a well-defined outline , which induces the author to regard it as a cell , though he has not succeeded in isolating any distinct membrane .
Such bodies then increase in length with or without multiplication of their nuclei , and after a short period a portion of their structure loses in great part its pigment and exhibits a striation sometimes transverse , sometimes longitudinal , or occasionally both conjointly ; but there is no distinct line of demarcation at this stage between the striated and non-striated portion of the cell-contents , -showing that the change takes place within the contents of the cell .
As the pigment gradually diminishes in the non-striated portion of the cell-contents , a membrane can in some cases be very distinctly observed limiting the whole structure , while in others it can only be seen around the non-striated portion , and in the former case the presence of a striated structure within this membrane is very distinct .
The nuclei are always found situated in the granular non-striated portion of the contents of the cell .
The cell may elongate to a very long fibre , to which only a single nucleus may be attached , or in the process of elongation a great increase in the number of nuclei may take place .
In all cases the nucleus and fibre are enclosed by a membrane , which the author regards as an extension of the original membrane enclosing the cell in its earlier stages .
The thickness of the striated portion appears to be in direct proportion to the number of nuclei enclosed within the membrane .
With the advance of development the space occupied within the mern374 [ June 15 , bran by the granular non-striated as compared with the striated portion of the fibre diminishes , so that the latter almost entirely fills the membrane , the nuclei lying within the membrane but external to the striated portion , and surrounded by a small amount of the granular matter of the original cell-contents .
The differentiation of the muscular fibre of the chick commences in the dorsal region , according to the author 's observations , after about fortyeight hours of incubation .
Here the first appearance is of nucleated oval bodies with well-defined outlines , but much smaller than in the tadpole , which the author regards as cells , though he has been unable to isolate a membrane .
These rapidly elongate into fusiform bodies , in which sometimes a faint striation becomes apparent .
Shortly after the commencement of the third day long fibres appear , apparently from the elongation of the former , which are striated both longitudinally and transversely , and upon them is situated a nucleus , around which is some granular matter ( the remains of the original cell-contents ) , the whole being enclosed by a membrane .
From the fourth to the fifth day a great multiplication of the nuclei follows within the membrane , and in proportion to this multiplication does the diameter of the fibre , and also of the striated portion , increase .
The author has observed a similar process in the growing extremities of the sheep and of man , and concludes that the growth of muscular fibre commences in the cells of the embryo by the elongation of the cells and multiplication of their nuclei , attended by a simultaneous fibrillation and striation of their contents .
He regards the sarcolemma as resulting from the extension of the wall of the parent cell , but thinks that the adult muscular fibre should not be regarded so much in the light of a single many-nucleated cell , as the result of the fusion of many cells in the act of formation , the separation of which , after the division of their nuclei , has been prevented by the early fibrillation of their contents , -a view which approximates somewhat to that held by Schwann , and which is also a modification of the opinion expressed by Killiker and Remak .
The development of the muscular fibre of the heart in the chick commences , according to the author , after forty-eight hours of incubation , by the appearance of stellate cells , which anastomose with one another in all directions .
The processes which these give off increase in thickness , and nuclei appear upon them , probably by multiplication of the nuclei of the original cells .
Fibrillation and transverse striation of these processes appear from the third to the fourth day .
The structure becomes so complex after this period , that the author has been unable to follow the development further .
He has not been able to find any membrane resembling the sarcolemma upon these processes from the stellate cells , though with a power of 1250 linear they may often be seen to have a double outline .
He thinks the presence of a sarcolemma may be inferred from the fact that the position of the nuclei in relation to the striated portion is the same as 2 F2 1865 .
] Striated Muscular Fibre .
375

