I. " On the Condition of the Oxvgen absorbed into the Blood during Respiration .
" By GEORGE HARLEY , M.D. , Teacher of Practical Physiology and Histology in University College , London .
Communicated by Professor SHARPEY , M.D. , Sec. R.S. Received March 16 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences by explaining , that his researches were instituted with the view of ascertaining whether the doctrine maintained by Magnus in regard to the gases interchanged in the lungs during respiration were correct-namely , that the gases in question enter into no chemical combination with the constituents of the blood , either in passing to or from the tissues and organs of the body , but form merely a physical mixture with the circulating liquid .
The principal object of the inquiry was to determine the following points:1 .
Has blood the property of chemically combining with the respired oxygen§ 2 .
Which of the constituents of the blood enter into combination with oxygen§ 3 .
Do these constituents , by combining with oxygen , simply become oxidized , or do they also yield carbonic acid gas § 4 .
What are the agents which control these changes ?
After describing the method of investigation , and the apparatus employed , the author proceeds to relate a few of the analyses which he considered as the most conclusive .
Instead of confirming the view of Magnus , that gases enter into no chemical combination with blood , his results led him to conclusions of an opposite character , which serve to confirm the more generally received doctrine .
In one set of experiments a certain quaintity of fresh ox-blood was first shaken with renewed portions of air until it had become thoroughly saturated with oxygen , then introduced into a graduated glass vessel with 100 per cent. of ordinary air , corked carefully up , and kept during twenty-four hours in a room of moderate temperature .
In order to favour the mutual action of the air and blood , the vessel was frequently agitated .
At the expiration of twenty-four hours the gas was analysed by Bunsen 's method .
In an example cited the following was found to be its composition : Oxygen ... ... ... .
10@421 Oxygen ... 10 ' 42 total oxygen. .
15-47 Carbonic acid ... .
5-05 l oyg. .
15 Nitrogen ... ... ..84-53 100-00 On comparing this with the composition of the common air ( oxygen 20'96 ; carbonic acid 00-002 ; nitrogen 79-038 ) which had been introduced into the vessel , it is seen that 10'54 per cent. of oxygen has disappeared , while 5-05 per cent. of carbonic acid now exists , where only a trace of its presence could before be detected .
Similar results were obtained with defibrinated blood .
In a case where defibrinated arterial blood from a calf , after complete saturation with oxygen , was kept in contact with an equal volume of air during twenty-four hours , and treated exactly as in the previous example , the gas on analysis yielded in 100 parts , Oxygen ... ... . .
11*33 tot oxyen Carbonic acid ... .
5 96 ge Nitrogen ... ... ..82-71 100-00 showing in this case also that the air which had been imprisoned during twenty-four hours along with blood , no longer possessed its original composition , but that some of its constituents had been materially increased , while others had diminished in a manner no less marked .
It would appear from these examples that the blood had probably become oxidized in two ways ; first , by giving off a quantity of carbon , and secondly by directly combining with oxygen .
As to the portion of oxygen which has disappeared , and which is not accounted for by the carbonic acid evolved , it may have combined partly with another portion of carbon , to form a limited amount of carbonic acid , which by the law of absorption is retained in the blood ; and partly with hydrogen or some other oxidable constituent of the blood , without yielding a gaseous product .
These two experiments it will be observed point to exactly the same conclusions , and together with a number of others , where the mode of procedure was similar , and which were attended with similar results , have satisfied the author as to the fallacy of Magnus 's doctrine , " that the oxygen received during respiration into the blood is kept there merely by the law of mechanical absorption , and enters into no chemical combination with that liquid .
" Had this assertion been well-founded , such a change as has been seen to occur , in the composition of the air enclosed along with blood , saturated as the blood already was with oxygen , could not have happened .
After having ascertained that air underwent certain changes in composition during its contact with blood , it next became an object to discover by which of the constituents of the blood these changes were induced .
With this view the author successively subjected the organic compounds of the blood separately to the action of air , by a similar process to that adopted in the case of the blood itself .
A certain quantity of fresh fibrin , moistened with water , was saturated with oxygen , placed in a receiver along with eight volumes of air , and kept during twenty-four hours at a temperature of from 20 ?
to 25 ?
cent. At the expiration of this time the gas on analysis was found to have the following composition : Oxygen ... ... ... .
6-81 1 Carbonic acid ... .
11-17 oxygen Nitrogen ... ... . .
8202 100'00 thus showing that fibrin takes up a certain quantity of oxygen , and gives off a stated amount of carbon combined with oxygen in form of carbonic acid gas .
The next experiments were made upon albumen , but as that substance could not be obtained in a pure , and at the same time uncoagulated state from blood , the albumen of the hen 's egg was employed , which possesses very similar characters .
It was found that when a certain quantity of the white of the hen 's egg was well saturated with oxygen , and afterwards kept in contact with an equal volume of air during a certain number of hours at a temperature of 36 ?
cent. , the gas on analysis gave in 100 parts , Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... 17-05 Carbonic acid ... ... ... ... . .
209 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... . .
80-86 100-00 proving , in common with the experiments on the blood and on fibrin , that albumen also possesses the property of absorbing oxygen and disengaging carbonic acid .
Some comparative experiments were also made upon serum and upon blood-coagulum , in which it was found that the air confined along with the serum yielded on analysisOxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ..16-74 Carbonic acid ... ... ... ... 2230 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... 8096 100-00 while that confined with the coagulum containedOxygen ... ... ... ... . .
8 57 Carbonic acid ... ... ... . .
7'29 Nitrogen.8414 100-00 It thus appears that the oxygen exerted a much more powerful action on the coagulum , which contained the fibrin and blood-corpuscles , than on the serum , which contained only albumen .
The experiment thus corroborated the results previously obtained with pure fibrin and pure albumen .
The pure fibrin was seen to produce a much greater change in the composition of the atmospheric air than the pure albumen from the hen 's egg .
The difference in the case of the coagulum and the serum was so much marked , that the author felt anxious to find out whence it proceeded ; and under the impression that the haematin in the corpuscles might have mainly contributed to the result ( as other organic colouring matters possess the property of absorbing oxygen and giving off carbonic acid gas ) , he took a small quantity of pure blood-haematin prepared by Verdeil 's process , and put it into a vessel along with 1000 volumes of ordinary air .
After the air had been kept in contact with the hsematin for some months , the gas was analysed and found to containOxygen ... ... ... ... ... . .
16'01 Carbonic acid ... ... ... ... ... .
380 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... 80-19 100-00 The pure colouring principle of the blood , therefore , by exposure to ordinary air , gives off carbonic acid gas , and becomes oxidized in two ways ; first by a loss of carbon , and secondly by direct combination with oxygen .
The author considers that this last result furnishes additional evidence of the correctness of an opinion he hazarded two years ago , imputing to the colouring matters of the vegetable and animal economy a more important office in the function of respiration than they before had been considered to possess , and regarding their principal function in organized beings as the absorbing of oxygen and exhaling of carbonic acid-a view altogether irrespective of Liebig 's well-known hypothesis , which assigns the above office to the iron of the blood-haematin .
The author concludes by expressing the hope that his experiments will be considered as at least serving to establish one important fact respecting which further evidence was wanted , namely , that the entire volume of the respired oxygen is not transmitted in an uncombined state ( as Magnus believes ) to the various organs and tissues of the body , but that a portion of it enters into chemical combination with some of the organic constituents of the blood .
* Verhand .
Physik-Medizin .
Gesellsch .
zu Wiirzburg , Bd .
v. 1854 ; and Erdmann 's Journ. f. prakt .
Chemie , Bd .
Ixiv .
H. 5 .
1855 .

