" Minute structure of the Organ of Taste in Vertebrate Animals .
" Part I. By Augustus Waller , M.D. Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. The author states that , in 1839 , his attention was first directed to the organ of taste on discovering the peculiar advantages for microscopic examination which are offered by the tongue of the living frog .
When prepared in the manner he describes , it is much more transparent than the web of the foot ; and its papillae , mucous membrane , blood-vessels , nerves , muscular fibres , &amp;c. may all be examined during life .
He subsequently found that , contrary to the opinion of anatomists , it contains two species of papillae distinct in their structure , corresponding to the conical and fungiform papillae of man .
In the present communication he describes the result of his further researches on the frog 's tongue , principally with regard to the ultimate termination of the nerves in the papille and the precise nature of the functions of these papillae in the act of taste , and demonstrates a similar disposition of the nervous extremities in man and the rest of the mammiferm .
After giving a brief account of the researches of former anatomists , he proceeds to state his method of preparing the firog for examination , which consists in rendering it insensible by exposing it to the vapour of ether or of various other volatile agents .
The tongue is then expanded so as to render it perfectly transparent .
The conical papillae he describes as small cones , sometimes simple , sometimes compound .
They are composed of globular , or wedgeshaped epithelial cells , generally with a medullary stem running up the centre , giving off small processes to the separate epithelial cells .
Each of the papillae presents , near its summit , a small aperture .
The fungiform papillae are distinguished from the former by their globular shape , larger size , and above all by the existence of a coil of capillary vessels within them , containing blood in a state of active circulation .
At their summit or at their sides , the vascular coils are extremely superficial and merely covered by an exceedingly thin membrane .
Besides the blood-vessels , these papillae are invariably found to contain a nerve and also muscular fibres .
The nerve consists of about eight or ten simple tubules .
At the base of the papillae it forms several loops , and afterwards ascends between the capillary vessels towards the summit of the papillae , where its tubules diverge and terminate in abrupt extremities .
The author terms that part of the papillae where the membrane is so attenuated , and where the vessels ramify and the nerves terminate , the neuro-vascular area ; the muscular fibres ascend into the papilla in the same direction as the ner-es , and after nearly reaching the summit , are lost in the tissue surrounding the neuro-vascular area .
The nerves of the conical papillae , contrary to the former , never terminate in abrupt extremities , and consist of a network of nearly single tubules .
Neither the nerves nor the vessels of these papillbe ascend into their interior , but are only spread out at their base .
The author deduces from these and other observations which are minutely described in his paper , that the fungiform are the papille of taste and the conical those of touch .
He considers that by reason of the thinness of the membrane at the neuro-vascular area , a sapid substance must quickly traverse it ; the nerves immediately beneath , like the spongioles of the roots of a plant , being acted upon by the sapid substance , convey the sensation of taste to the brain .
The active circulation in the capillaries at the same spot appears to be for the purpose of removing by endosmosis the sapid substance from the nerve so as to render it capable of receiving a fresh impression .
A further peculiarity exists with respect to these papillae , which is that they present at their surface an active ciliary movement of which the conical papilli are devoid .
This movement appears to be for the purpose of promoting absorption and of removing any foreign particles from their surface .
He regards the conical papillae as strictly destined for tactile purposes , on account of the thickness of their epithelium , and the presence of the nervous ramifications at their base , which are simnilar to those existing at the under surface of the tongue , where the sensation of taste does not exist and the tactile powers alone are present , The author has extended his observations to other animals , to the mammiferse , and to Man in particular , and states that in all these the same difference exists between the two species of papille .
He promises in his next paper on this subject to describe the structure of the mammiferae .
This paper is illustrated by several drawings .

