XXIX .
Experiments on the Production of Cold by the Evaporation of the Sulphuret of Carbon .
By Alexander Marcet , M. D. F. R. S. one of the Physicians to Guy 's Hospital .
Read July 8 , 1813. .
HAD the honour , at an earlier period of this session , of giving to the Society , conjointly with Professor BERZELIUS , an account of the alcohol of sulphur , or sulphuret of carbon , and of noticing the remarkable volatility of that fluid .
I have , since that period , tried a variety of experiments on the subject , and having found this compound more volatile than any other known body , and capable of producing , by its evaporation , a degree of cold of proportional intensity , I have been induced , in order to render the history of the sulphuret of carbon more complete , to present to the Society a brief account of my experiments.* If the bulb of a small spirit thermometer be closely covered with a bag of fine flannel , or still better , with a piece of fine lint , and a few drops of the sulphureous liquor poured upon it , the thermometer rapidly sinks from 60 ?
to about o ; whilst if a similar experiment be made with ether , or alcohol , under the same circumstances , the temperature is reduced by the ether to only about + 20 ?
, and by the alcohol to about 50 ?
.* The hygrometrical state of the atmosphere appears to have some influence on these results .
If the bulb of the thermometer , thus wetted with the sulphutreous liquor , be introduced into the receiver of an airpump , ( by means of a brass plate , as expressed in the annexed sketch , the plate fitting the receiver air tight when laid upon its open neck ) , the thermometer sinks rapidly , as the ex* I have also tried some experiments on the comparative elastic force of the vapour of these fluids , by introducing in succession a few drops of them , through mercury , into a torricellian tube ; and I obtained the following results : Depression Cold produced Sp. Gray .
Temper .
of Mercury .
by Evaporation .
Pure alcohol o,806 660,65 from 68 ?
to 52 ? .
Sulphuret of carbon 1,272 660 1o,75 from 680 to 1o ? .
Rectified ether o,724 660 1,65 from 680 to 24 . ?
It would appear , therefore , that the degree of volatility of a fluid , or of cold produced by its evaporation , are far from bearing an exact proportion to the elastic force of its L1 2 haustion proceeds , and in one or two minutes it descends from + 70O to 70 , or even 80 ?
of FAHRENHEIT'S scale , that is at least 40 degrees below the freezing point of mercury .
A cold of 65 or 70 is easily obtained by exhausting the receiver till the rarefied air supports only one quarter of an inch of mercury ; but with a pump capable of exhausting to one-eighth of an inch , the thermometer sinks to 81 ?
or 8 ?
* in less than two minutes .
It is scarcely necessary to observe that , if instead of a spirit thermometer , a tube containing mercury be employed , this metal may be instantly frozen , and the remarkable contraction , which it undergoes at the moment of its congelation , may be seen and estimated with great facility.* These experiments are but slightly influenced either by the temperature of the atmosphere , or by that of the suiphureous liquor ; but if the air be very damp , the moisture which accumulates upon the bulb whilst cooling , slightly impedes the process .
This moisture appears in the form of a hoar frost , forming a snowy arborescent deposition all over the covering of the bulb .
The oily liquor itself does not freeze when exposed to a temperature of at least 60 ? .
I shall not take up the time of the Society by a detail of the various attempts which I have made to increase still farther vapour .
It may be observed also , that the elastic force of the vapour of alcohol of sulphur was stated by Mr. BERZELIUS and myself , in our joint paper , to be only 7,36 inches , instead of 10,75 ; but this difference is accounted for from the circumstance of the temperature , which in that instance was 53,50 , instead of 66 ?
; a differ .
ence which is very nearly that which might have been expected from a comparison with the force of ether at the same temperature as given in Mr. DALTON'S tables .
the effects just related .
The fact is , that all these attempts have hitherto failed , and the simplest mode of performing the experiment has uniformly yielded the best results .
Indeed , I am now inclined to believe , that unless a substance were found which should exert an attraction upon the sulphureous liquor , without being itself evaporable , ( as is the case with the sulphuric acid , in Mr. LESLIE'S mode of freezing water ) , I have nearly reached the limit of cold that can be produced in this manner .
It may be proper to add , that the presence of sulphuric acid in this experiment would have no immediate effect , as it exerts no attraction upon the volatilized liquor ; yet by drying the rarefied atmosphere which surrounds the bulb , it might perhaps assist a little in promoting the process of evaporation .
It may also be useful to caution those who may wish to repeat these experiments , against working the pump too rapidly ; for in this case , a degree of heat is produced ( in consequence , no doubt , of the condensed air rushing violently through the valve ) , which is sufficient to inflame the volatilized liquor mixed with it .
This happens most frequently with pumps of large dimensions , and is immediately perceived by the sulphureous fumes which issue from the barrel ; no other consequence ensues , however , except the injury done to the valves , which , at all events , are apt to be acted upon , and more or less deranged , by the repeated contact of the volatilized liquor .
On this account the receiver used for these experiments should be of the capacity of two or three pints ; for if it be very small , and the vapour very concentrated , the valves appear to be proportionally injured .
$55

