II .
" Notes on the apparent Universality of a Prinlciple anialogous to Regelation , Gn the Physical Nature of Glass , and on the probable existence of Tater in a state corresponding to that of Glass .
" By EDWARD W. BRAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 26 , 1860 .
1 .
Recent experim-ental investigiations , and the reasoning founded ipon them , have elevated the designation of an observed property of ice to the character of a principle in physics .
The growth of crystals of camnplhor and of iodide of cyanogen , by the deposition of solid m-atter upon them from an atmosphere unable to deposit like solid rimatter upon the surrounding glass , except at a lower temperature ; and that of crystals in solution , by the deposition of solid matter upon them which is not deposited elsewhere in the solution , have been a-dduiec(l by Mr. Far , aday to illustrate the extension of the priniciple of action which is maniifested in regelation ; and " many such like cases , " he remarks , " may be produced .
" In his reasoning oln the nature of that principle , he also rests on the fact , that ice has the same property as camphor , sulphur , phosphorus , metals , &amp;c. , which cause the deposition of solid particles upon them from the surrounding fluid , that would not have been so deposited without the presence of the previous solid portions * .
In reflecting on these indications of the universality of the cause , whatever it may intrinsically be , which is operative in the phenomena alluded to , it occurred to me that the known fact of the incorporation of two or more plates of glass into onie block , presented a curious parallel to the incorporation of two or more slabs or separate portions of ice into one mass ; and to determinle in what manner these subjects were related to each other appeared to deserve careful investigation .
Towards this the following suggestions are offered : Certain substances , both elementary and compound , appear to present , in what we term the solid state , phenomena corresponding to those which are presenited by others in the liquid and solid statesanid the transitions from one to the other .
collectively regarded , and indicating the existence of a condition of matter which may be termed arrested liquidity , but yet is not , in the most perfect sense , solidity .
Of these bodies glass is one .
The fact in question , which exemplifies in a striking manner the property here alluded to , appears to have been first noticed as a subject of scientific importance by MM .
Pouillet and Clement Desormest .
It is the incorporation , into one mass , of two or more plates of the kind of glass manufactured for mirrors , and called plate-glass , the polished surfaces of which have been placed , and have remained for some considerable timie , at common temperatures , in close contact with each other , the entire area of one plate being in contact with the entire area of the contiguous one , -extensive mutual surfaces of contact being thus supplied .
UJnder these circumstances , two , three , or four , or even a greater number of plates become coniverted into one block of glass , which it is impossible to separate into the original plates , and which may be worked , and eveiI cut with a diamond , as if the whole had originially been a siingle mass , In some specimens which I have examined , with the surface of one plate were incorporated portions of another , the surfaces of fracture of which were alone exposed , its substance having been torn through in the effort to separate the united plates by mechanical force* .
The same effect took place in some experiments by Clem-lent Desormes .
I assuime it to be highly probable that the process by which the two plates of glass become one , is , in reality , analogous to that of regelation in ice , and finally depenident on the same principles , whatever their true character may be conceived or shall ultimately be determined to be .
To this it may be objected , however , that there is no evidence , in the case of the glass , of the previous liquefaction , or even approach to liquefaction , of the surfaces which become united so as entirely to disappear ( or , more properly spealXing , to be altogether obliterated ) , and that the phenomenonis referable simply to the homogeneous attractioni of the mTolecules of one plate for those of the contiguous one , the evenniess of the two polished surfaces allowing them to be brotught within a very minute distance of one another .
But two remarkable facts greatly diminish the weight of this objection , if , indeed , they do not entirely remove it .
First , unpolished plates of glass have no tendency to unite ; the hard and compact siliceous film , to which Prof. Faraday , regarding glass " as a solution of different substances onie in another , " lon-g ago referred its power of resisting agents generally t , and which previously bound together the outer molecules of each plate , mllust be removed by grinding and polishing , so as to render the actual surfaces of contact those of portions of the glass the chemuical nature and condition of which are such as readily to admit of their rapid mutual action and union into one mass .
Secondly , the polished plates sometimes have the forms and configurations of the sturfaces of straw and other packingmaterials impressed upon them ( portions of straw , paper , &amp;c. sometimes adhering inseparably to the glass , after having been takeni to hiot clirmiates * ) , in consequence of the soft nature of the substanice exposed by the polishing , or of its nature being such as readily to soften by a temperature very much below that of the proper fusion , or even softening , of the glass in its integrity .
The state of the interior portions of a plate of plate-glass appears , therefore , to be simiilar to that of glass in general at certain temperatures much below its fuising-point , when it presents such remarkable characters of plasticity , tenacity , and ductilityt .
Is it possible that a lowering of the melting-point of glass , or of the exposed interior portions of it , by pressure , is concernied in the .
union of the two plates ?
The effect of the mere pressure of the atmosphere , ensuing upon the exclusionl of the air from betweenl the closely apposed plates , would of course be insignificanit in depressing the tenperature of fusion of the glass ; but the pressure occasioned by the cohesive force-exerted , it will be remembered , through a very small thickness only of the material , -which finally unites two or more plates into onie block , would probably be adequate to any conceivable effect of this nature which can be required for the production of the plienomernoii observed .
It may appear at first sight , that the fact that glass belongs to that class of bodies which contract on passing from the liquid to the solid state , and the melting-point of which , therefore , would be elevated--not depressed-by pressure , is opposed to this possibility .
The objection would be a valid one were we now concerned with glass in a crystallin-e state .
But we are treating of that substance in its familiar and ordinary condition , inito which it passes from liqui .
dity by a cointilnuous gradationi of temperature , through equally continuous states of softness into the solid form , like melted phosphorus and selenium .
I am now tempted to ask , in conclusion of this part of the subject , Are all cases of the union of two apparently solid surfaces of the same substance by cohesive attraction , cases of melting and regelation , an infiniitesimally thin film of liquid being momentarily produced and as instantly solidified ?
Will two surfaces of perfectly drv ice , at temperatures much below 320 , but under favourable mechariical circumstanices , unite by mere apposition and pressure ( which ought to follow from Prof. James Thomson 's theory ) , and thus prove the identity of the acting principle in the two cases of ice and plateglass ?
The negative of the last question does not appear to be proved by the fact cited by Faraday and Tyndall , that dry , hard-frozen snow has not the property of becoming compacted into a snow-ball .
The cases seem not to be comparable , because the brittleness of the constituent crystals of snow when in this state , its porous nature as a whole , and its being consequently pervaded by air , will prevent the required apposition of surfaces .
Nor , as I conceive , is it proved by Prof. Tyndall 's most instructive experiment of crushing a ball of ice , cooled by carbolnic acid and ether , into white and opake hard fragments ; for in this also the required apposition of surfaces would be wanting .
Further , it may be asked , whether this very experiment does not demonstrate the limitation of the lowering of the meltingor freezing-point by pressure ?
and if so , there can be nio tendenicy to union at 1000 below freezing .
In discussing the philosophy of the ulnion of two surfaces of glass , I have alluded to the theory of regelation enunciated by Prof. J. Thomson ; but I wish to be understood as not adopting , exclusively , in these notes , any existing theory on the subject .
Admiitting the operation of cohesive attraction and consequent pressure in the first instance , the phenomenon , with respect to glass , readily admits of explanation by the original view of Mr. Faraday , which is , " that a film of water must possess the property of freezing when placed between two sets of icy particles , though it will not be affected by a single set of particles .
" If we regard the two apposed surfaces of glass , each cornsisting of a thin stratum of particles , taken ; together , as representing the film of water , them the other strata of particles in contact with them respectively , and making up the entire thickness of the plate on each side , will correspond to the two sets of icy particles , the action of which by freezing the film of water effects the union of the two portioris of ice , anlld the plheinimenon may be colnsistently explained in the terms of Mr. Faraday 's theory .
And here we seem to find points of coiincidence between cohesive force , as ordinarily considered , the principle of regelationl , and that particular view of the former which has been aninounced by Mr. Faraday in accounting for the phenomena preselnted by and connected with the latter .
2 .
But we are led by the preceding facts and considerations to some further inferences , if not indeed to a definite hypothesis , upon the subject of the molecular constitution or physical nature of glass .
Mr. Faraday 's view of it has been cited already ; he regards glass , it will be remembered , " as a solution of different substances one in another .
" Professor Maskelylne has suggested to me , in conversation , that the physical nature of glass most probably nearly resembles that of a solution of a crystallizable salt in water , immediately before crystallizing .
These views are evidently coherent , and they harmonize with Prof. Graham 's , who defines glass , chemically , as " Ia mixture of silicates* .
" But they all relate to the varieties of glass in common use , while we are concerned , at present , with the abstract vitreous condition of matter , such as it is represented by the phosphoric and boracic acids , probably by the heavy optical glass of Faraday , by the simple glasses of felspar and peridote obtained by Charles Deville , by the glassy condition of silica , natural and artificial , and still more perfectly , perhaps , by the glassy form of sugar .
Bearing in mind then the homogeneous , or comparatively homogeneous , nature of these glasses , and conisidering the uniformity of texture which the acoustic as well as the optical characters of perfeet glass in general evince , especially when contrasted with that of crystallinie plates in the acoustic researches of Savart , and how strongly distinguished that texture is from a crystallinie texture or structure , -a niearer analogy than that of a solution ready to crystallize , I think , will be found in , the condition of water cooled below the freezing-point but still remaining liquid , until by a tr emor , or the percussive contact of a solid body , or the mere contact of a crystal of ice , its temperature rises to 320 and it becomes ice .
If so , glass will be a substance in which this state of arrested liquidity , or potential solidity , is permanent .
And this inference will harmnoiize with known facts .
Gregory Watt proved that heat is evolved when mineral glasses crystallize or become ( permaniently and truly ) solid * , The preparation of sugar called barley-sugar is the vitreous conditioIn of that body , already takenas a type of simple glass ; while granular sugar , and more perfectly sugar-candy , exhibit its crystal line state .
Prof. Graham has shown that , at a certaini temperature , by mechanical means the former miiay bc converted into the latter , the temperature quickly rising 70 on the transitioni oL the sulgar from the glassy to the crystalline sttea This and similar facts induceed him to refer the peculiar conistitution and properties of glass in general to the perynanent retentioni of a certain quantity of heat in a latent state , which becomes seilsible on its crystallization ; and this will take place on its being preserved in a soft st , ; ate at certailn temperatures .
There are some remarkable and instructive parallels betwx , even the phenomena of the crystallization of water , and that of glass and some other bodies .
It follows from the experiments and inductions of Gregory Watt already cited , that durhing , the crystallization of glass a higher temperature miiust be communicated to the interior than that existing over its surface , by the evolution of heat at the poilnts where the clystallinie form is assumed , which will be gradually conduicted throughotut the mass .
So that , in the express words of Faraday , in relationi to ice , " C by virtue of the solidifying [ crystallizing ] power at poilnts of conItact , the same mass may be freezing and thawing at the same moment ; " and the " freezing process in the inside may be a thawing process on the outside , " and thus contribute to the slowness of the cooling , and allow the crystallizationl therefore to be the more perfect .
We bore seern to have the explanationi of the well-known fact , that in bodies which crystallize from a state of igneous fusion , the most perfect crystallinie state is produced when the longest time intervenles between the commencement of solidification ( now using that term in its ordinary sense ) and the complete cooling of the melted mass .
The cases cited from Mr. Faraday at the beginning of this paper , of the growth of crystals ( including those of ice in ice-cold water ) in solutions , all have their exact parallels in the accretion of crystals in cooling melted glass .
" , -Crystals of ice , " Mr. Faraday observes , " 6 which could not be colder than the surrounding fluid , exhibited the phenomena of regelation " -that is , of incorporation into one- , " when purposely brought in contact with each other .
" The same tbing happens with melted glass slowly cooling , in which crystalline spherules , often forming spontaneously and inldependently , continue to form and to increase , even after the glass has become solid as such , by the operation of a principle in this view analogous to regelation , until the enitire mas ' has become crystalline* .
3 .
No crystalline body has been longer or more extensively subject to human observation , than crystallized water , or ice .
Its natuLral history and properties , as science has advanced , have been inlvestigated with increasing generality and precision ; and they have finally become objects of that systematic and exact research which characterizes the present era of physical inquiry , --as is evinced by the dis* If we should prefer to adopt Mr. Maskelyne 's suggestion in a formal manner , and regard glass as resembling a solution about to crystallize , its anialogue , agreeably to the preceding views , will be a saturated solution of a salt in liot water , allowed to cool undisturbed , and remaining fluiid , until its cohesion is affected , when its temperature rises , and the salt crystallizes .
Specimens of glass are comrnmon which have the aspect and distribuition of parts of a crystallized salt in the mother-liquor ; opake crystallized spherules appearing in the midst of a transparent inass .
To these correspond , among inatural glasses , pitchstone andL many examples of porphyritic obsidian , consisting of a vitreous base in which crystals have been formed and are imbedded .
But at the same time the view I have taken of the suibject , and Mr. Maskelyne 's , may be equtally tenable ; for the state of water remaining liquid at temperatures below 32 ?
, and that of saline solutions remaining uncrystallized at temperatures below those of solidification , are evidently closely analogous .
Should I return to this subject , I shall refer to my friend Mr. Sorby 's observations on the nature of glass , which I had not read when these notes were commtunicated to the Royal Society , but which are in entire agreement with the views I have siiggested.-See Qoiart .
Jouirn , of Geol .
Soc. vol. xiv .
p. 465 .
eussion on rlegelation- , to which these notes are intenided to be supplemenitary .
A most renmarkable deficiency , however , still remains , apparently , in our knowledge of this substance:-Water in the vitreous condition -Ice-glass has never been observed .
While we know the antithetical vitreous state of so many differenit crystallized substances-minerals produced by heat , salts deposited from aqueous solution , neutral bodies of organic origin-and have great reason to believe that that antithetical conidition to crystallization is universal , we have no knowledge of it in relation to water or ice .
My own attention has been awake to the subject , without success , for mally years .
It wouLld seem to be scarcely within the bounlds of possibility that the glassy state of water , if possessing what we term solidity , should not , ere now , either have been observed in nature , or have occurred and been recognized in experimental research* .
I now veinture to submit the inquiry , Does this apparent deficiency in our knowledge exist because-to use language recenitly introduced iinto physical science the homologue of the glassy state of water is not what we ordinarily term solid-because the state of water cooled below 32 ?
but still liquid is in fact the state which corresponds to the vitreous condition of other bodies , and to the physical nature of perfect ordinary glass ?
Is the one simply a case of potential solidity , and the other of the confluenit or equivalent state of arrested liquidity ?
It may be said that the homology which is here endeavoured to be established between liquid water below 32 ?
and glass , is a forced one .
That , in relation to each other , these are extreme cases is perfectly true ; but intermediate terms of the series are not waniting , and some of them are supplied by sulphur and phosphorus , and in a remllarkable maniner by selenium .
All these bodies , when melted , ray be -* The crushed fragments of the ball of ice cooled in carboniic acid and ether , in Prof. Tyndall 's experimrent already mentioned , which " remairned white cnd opake as those of cruslhed glass , " were still , he irnforms me , perfectly crystalline , resembling fragments of quiartz .
The " points of anialogy between the molecular structure of ice and glass " noticed by Mr. Drummnonid ( Phil. Mag. , August 1859 , S. 4 .
vol. xviii .
pp. 102-103 ) do not involve the physical condlition of those bodies , but relate merely to the resemblance of one crystallized substance ( ice ) to another ( ReaLnmur 's porcelain ) , and of both to a third body ( bottleand window-glass ) , which , from its optical characters , is inferred-I think iniconsequientially-to have assuimed a state prepavator'y to crvstallization .
cooled maiiy degrees below their freezing-poin ; ts and yet remain fluid .
Sulphur presents , in its viscid form , an approach to the glassy condition ; but it may be obtained in the crystalline form on passing from a state of fusion , and when cooled below freezing , instantanieously crystallizes , like water , by mechanical disturbance .
In phosphoruis also there is the viscid state ; and when cooling after fusion , it passes gradually , like glass , from the liquid to the solid corndition without crystallizing , though crystals are deposited from some of its colutions .
Selenium presents a state resembling the viscid state of the preceding substances ; but when melted , and left to cool , remains fluid below its melting-point , and solidifies very gradually in its amorphous state ( in which it has some of the characteristic properties of glass ) , and a thermometer immersed in it during the cooling does not remaill stationary at any point , or indicate any temperature at which heat is evolved by molecular change in the substance , -as if the selenium passed corntinuously from the liquid glassy state to that of solid glass .
At ordinary temperatures it retains this condition for a long time-as common glass does at higher , and as water and sulphuv will at lower temperatures ; but when heated again , betweeni a certain temperature and its melting-point it becomes crystalline and gives out great heat* .
When glass is raised to a certain temperature , and by its maintenence is preserved in a soft state , it does the same .
In stulphur , phosphorus , and selenium , therefore , the fluid state below the temperature of solidificationl the intermediate condition between fluidity and solidity the viscid state long retained the solid state of seleniumn which evolves heat on crystallizing-all appear to be homologues , at once , of liquid water below 32 ' , and of the glassy state of matter .
Should this hypothesis be verified , water below 32 ' , or rather , perhaps , from the temperatuLre of maximum density downwards through that of freezing , may have to be regarded as the type of the vitreous condition of matter ; and the causes of the peculiar characters of that condition , its efects on the transmission of the vibrations of sound and light , the conchoidal fracture , &amp;c. , may have to be discovered by researches on its molecular nature .

