On the Diferent Methods of Constructing a Catalogue of Fixed Stars .
By J. Pond , Esq. F.R.S. Astronomer Royal .
Read May 21 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 405 .
] The method hitherto adopted in the Royal Observatory for constructing a catalogue of stars , either in declination or right ascension , has been to take some one star as a point of departure , and thus to determine the position of the rest by direct comparison .
The declinations were determined by direct comparison with y Draconis , and a Aquilae was chosen as the common term of comparison in right ascension .
In observations with the transit instrument , this mode of proceeding is highly objectionable ; for every result is subject to a double error , -that committed in the observation of a Aquilhe , and that in the observation of the star itself .
Besides which , if the observation of a Aquilke be omitted , then the other observations become useless .
Hence , although extreme accuracy was ultimately thus obtained by the late Astronomer Royal , the method was tedious and objectionable .
The method which Mr. Pond proposes to substitute , and which he describes in this paper , has the advantage of affording , in a single year , a catalogue equally accurate with one formerly obtained in three , and equally applicable to the mural circle and transit instrument .
No particular star is in either case assumed as a point of departure in preference to the rest .
On the contrary , every star is in its turn assumed as a point of reference to the others .
It is thus endeavoured , in the first instance , to establish their relative distances from each other , or from the equator or meridian , leaving the choice and determination of some common point of departure as a subject for future consideration .
The principles of proceeding applicable to both instruments are then detailed at length , and the striking coincidence of the author 's catalogue , and that of the late Dr. Maskelyne , adverted to .
In respect to the accuracy of the results afforded by the new transit instrument , Mr. Pond thinks that 120 observations enable him to define the place of a fixed star to one tenth of a second of a degree .

