177 The Nature of the Coagulant of the Venom of Echis carinatus , a Small Indian Viper .
By J. 0 .
Wakelin Barratt , M.D. , D.Sc .
Lond. ( Communicated by Prof. J. N. Langley , F.R.S. Received July 22 , 1913 .
) ( From the Liverpool Cancer Research Laboratory , the University , Liverpool .
) CONTENTS .
Page Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 177 Action of thrombin and thrombokinase upon circulating blood plasma ... 178 Effect of heat upon thrombin and thrombokinase ... ... ... ... ... . .
184 Action of viper venom upon circulating blood plasma ... ... ... ... 186 Effect of heat upon viper venom ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
189 Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
190 The effect of intravascular injection of the venom of the Australian black snake ( Notechis porpliyriacus ) upon blood coagulation was studied by C. J. Martin , * who , noticing the similarity of the resulting changes with those described by Wooldridge , f after intravascular injection of " tissue fibrinogen , " inferred that in both cases the mechanism involved was the same , namely , the introduction of nucleo-proteins into the blood stream , the liberation of these substances after the injection of viper venom being presumably due to the latter damaging the endothelial cells of the blood-vessels .
Subsequently it was observed by Lamb } that the addition of viper venom to citrated or oxalated blood plasma also caused clotting .
Martin S therefore abandoned the explanation he had previously suggested and concluded that the coagulant action of viper venom was due to fibrin ferment .
The subject was later reinvestigated by J. Mellanby , || who recognised that * C. J. Martin , " On some Effects upon the Blood produced by the Venom of the Australian Black Snake , " 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1893 , vol. 15 , p. 380 ; " On the Physiological Action of the Venom of the Australian Black Snake , " 'Roy .
Soc. N.S.W. Proc. , ' 1895 ; " Subcutaneous and Intravenous Injection of the Venoms of the Australian Snakes , " 4Roy .
Soc. N.S.W. Proc. , ' 1896 .
t L. C. Wooldridge , " On the Origin of the Fibrin Ferment , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1884 , vol. 36 , p. 417 .
+ G. Lamb , " On the Actions of Venoms of the Cobra ( Naja tripudians ) and of the Daboia ( Daboia russellii ) on the Red Blood Corpuscles and on the Blood Plasma , " \#166 ; * Scientific Memoirs by Officers of the Medical and Sanitary Department of the Government of India , ' 1903 , New Series , No. 4 .
S C. J. Martin , " Observations upon Fibrin Ferments in the Venoms of Snakes and the Time Relations of their Action , " 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1905 , vol. 32 , p. 207 .
|| J. Mellanby , " The Coagulation of the Blood , Part II , " 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1909 , vol. 38 , p. 441 .
Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
Nature of the the nucleo-protein invoked in the earlier hypothesis of C. J. Martin would , in more modern terminology , be called thrombokinase .
Mellanby concluded from his observations that viper venoms did not contain fibrin ferment , but that the active blood-coagulating agent contained in these venoms consisted of pure thrombokinase .
He based this conclusion upon the circumstance that ( 1 ) the coagulant effect of viper venom upon fibrinogen is increased by the addition of calcium chloride , and ( 2 ) that when venom is allowed to act upon prothrombin ( in the absence of added calcium chloride or in presence of potassium oxalate ) fibrin ferment is produced .
As regards ( 1 ) it may be pointed out that , as shown by Bordet and Delange , * the action of fibrin ferment upon fluid blood plasma is increased in the presence of calcium chloride .
With a view of throwing additional light upon the problem whether the coagulant action of viper venom is due to thrombin or thrombokinase , it was determined to investigate further the action of heated and unheated venom upon circulating blood plasma .
Before proceeding to describe the\#187 ; experiments made with viper venom it will , however , be necessary to consider the action of heat upon thrombin and thrombokinase respectively , and also to refer to the effect , in respect of production of fibrin , of the injection of these substances into the blood stream .
In order to obtain a solution of thrombin fibrinogen was coagulated by a small amount of thrombokinase in presence of calcium chloride ; the fluid expressed from the coagulum furnished a supply of thrombin .
As source of thrombokinase red-cell stromata were used in most experiments ; less frequently peptone was employed .
The venom employed w\#163 ; ts that of the phoorsa , Echis carinatus .
For a supply of this venom I am indebted to the great kindness of Dr. C. J. Martin , to whom my best thanks are due for his generous gift .
Action of Thrombin and Thrombokinase upon Circulating Blood Plasma .
The coagulant effect of thrombin and thrombokinase is usually tested in vitro .
For this purpose a solution of fibrinogen is generally employed ; less frequently fluid blood plasma is used .
It has , however , been pointed out in a previous communicationf that the action of blood coagulants may be studied more conveniently by intravascular injection , for if , after injection , separation of fibrin occurs , this can be recognised by the presence of masses * J. Bordet and L. Delange , " La Coagulation du Sang et la Gen^se de la Thrombine , " ' Annals de l'Institut Pasteur , ' 1912 , vol. 26 , p. 657 .
t J. O. Wakelin Barratt , " On Fibrinsemia , " ' Journ. Pathol , and Bacteriol .
, ' 1913 , vol. 17 , p. 303 .
Coagulant of the Venom of Echis carinatus .
179 of fibrin in the blood-vessels , particularly of the lungs .
This method has been adopted in the present investigation .
The injection of a solution of thrombin was carried out after the manner of the following experiment:\#151 ; Experiment 1.\#151 ; A solution of fibrinogen measuring 16 c.c. was prepared , as described in the next section , from 16 c.c. of rabbit 's blood plasma .
To this 1'2 c.c. of a suspension of the red-cell stromata of the rabbit* was added , together with 1*2 c.c. of 0-6-per-cent .
calcium chloride solution .
A firm clot was formed at the end of 30 minutes at 37 ' C. After the lapse of a further period of 60 minutes 17 c.c. of fluid was expressed from the clot by means of a glass rod ; this was injected into the vein of the ear of a rabbit weighing 850 grm. At the end of injection , which occupied nine minutes , the animal became convulsed and died four minutes after the completion of injection .
A post-mortem examination was made without delay : the blood in the heart and great blood-vessels was fluid ; the coagulation time of blood taken from the heart was two minutes ; 4 c.c. of blood obtained on opening the heart coagulated slowly at room temperature , forming a moderately firm clot , which had retracted to about the normal extent next morning ; the lungs collapsed rapidly upon opening the chest .
When sections of the lung are made after intravenous injection of thrombin , fibrin masses are found in the blood-vessels in amount depending upon the quantity of thrombin injected , but in no case are fibrin masses observed in more than a small number of the blood vessels .
The appearance of the fibrin , which is illustrated elsewhere.f varies considerably , being obviously in part determined by the time elapsing between injection and death .
Sometimes , though rarely , a very fine network is seen , resembling that observed when a section is made of a clot formed in a solution of fibrinogen after the addition of thrombin , or of thrombokinase and calcium chloride , as in the experiments recorded in the next section .
More usually an irregular coarse network is seen , resulting from the contraction or compression in the blood stream of the delicate fibrils first formed , the process being comparable to that occurring when blood is whipped .
Frequently the change is carried a step further and dense masses of fibrin of varying size are seen , sometimes forming irregular plugs partly filling the arterioles , sometimes in the form of threads of varying length in the capillaries .
It is found that after the injection of large quantities of thrombin the amount of fibrin obtainable when blood collected from the heart is allowed to * Cp .
Experiment 2 , p. 180 .
t J. O. Wakelin Barratt , loc. cit. Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
Nature of the coagulate is markedly reduced in amount , sometimes the blood .remaining permanently liquid ; * in such cases the quantity of fibrin in the blood vessels of the lungs is conspicuous .
If , however , the amount of thrombin injected is small some difficulty may be experienced in finding fibrin in the pulmonary vessels , even though symptoms of illness , generally not severe , have followed injection .
In the viscera , other than the lungs , fibrin is less readily observed and not infrequently appears to be absent .
When the coagulant action of thrombin vitro is compared with that following upon its injection into the blood stream , it is obvious that the process is essentially the same in both cases , such differences as appear being due to the churning action of the circulatory movement of the blood causing condensation of the delicate fibrin fibrils first formed , and thus leading to the appearance of solid masses of fibrin of varying size .
The injection of thrombokinase , contained in a suspension of the red-cell stromata of the rabbit , !
was effected in a series of observations carried out after the following method :\#151 ; Experiment 2.\#151 ; Oxalated rabbit 's blood was centrifugal]sed until the red cells were completely precipitated .
After pipetting off the supernatant plasma the red cells were twice washed with 0'85-per-cent , sodium chloride solution , and were then laked by the addition of an equal volume of distilled water .
Solid sodium chloride was then added in amount necessary to form 0'85 per cent , of the distilled water employed and the liquid again centrifugalised , whereby the red-cell stromata were precipitated .
After pipetting off the supernatant solution of hemoglobin 0'85-per-cent , sodium chloride solution was added in the amount required to make up the original volume .
The resulting liquid , which contained the red-cell stromata , together with approximately half the amount of hemoglobin present before laking , !
served as source of thrombokinase .
Of this liquid 5 c.c. were now injected in the course of three minutes into the vein of the ear of a rabbit weighing 1005 grm. At the end of injection the animal appeared to be unaffected .
Shortly afterwards , however , it became convulsed , respiration failed , and death occurred at the end of 10 minutes .
On * When this is observed ' , the addition of thrombin fails to produce clotting in vitro .
+ The coagulant action of a suspension of red-cell stromata upon fibrinogen in vitro is exhibited in the next section ( p. 185 ) .
t More haemoglobin may be removed from the stromata by repeated washing with 0 85-per-cent , sodium chloride .
If this is done , larger amounts of stromata may require to be injected in order to cause death .
The dissolved haemoglobin does not appear to give rise to any recognisable ill effect .
Cp .
J. O. Wakelin Barratt and W. York , " Ueber Hamoglobinamie , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Immunitatsforschung u. exp .
Therapie , ' 1912 , vol. 12 , p. 333 .
Coagulant of the Venom of Echis carinatus .
181 opening the chest immediately after death the lungs were observed to collapse rapidly ; blood obtained from the heart clotted slowly at room temperature ; no clots were found in the heart and great blood-vessels .
On microscopical examination of sections of the viscera of rabbits which had received by intravenous injection lethal amounts of red-cell stromata , fibrin masses were sometimes , but not invariably , found in the blood-vessels of the lungs , being present in very sparse numbers , even though relatively large quantities of stromata ( i.e. , as much as is obtainable from 4 c.c. to 12 c.c. of rabbit 's red cells per kilogramme of body weight of the animal injected ) were introduced .
It is to be noted also that no obviously defective formation of fibrin in blood obtained from the heart could be observed , clotting generally resulting in the formation of a firm coagulum retracting normally in the course of 24 hours ; occasionally , however , the clot formed was distinctly soft .
Coagulation was usually delayed , the period of onset of coagulation at 37 ' C. being one to six minutes.* The intravascular injection of thrombokinase in the form of peptone was carried out in a series of experiments of which the following is an example:\#151 ; Experiment 3.\#151 ; Into the vein of the ear of a rabbit weighing 542 grm. , 24 c.c. of a 9-per-cent , solution of Witte 's peptonef ( the solution was observed to be alkaline to litmus paper ) was injected at the rate of 2 c.c. per minute ; 10 minutes after the completion of injection 5 c.c. of blood were removed from the internal carotid artery ; the blood remained fluid at the end of 50 minutes at room temperature ( 17 ' C. ) , but at the end of 70 minutes a soft clot had formed which after 2 hours had become firm and was found to be considerably retracted ; 2 c.c. of blood removed from the vein of the ear shortly before^injection formed a firm clot at the end of 12 minutes .
On microscopical examination of the viscera of rabbits killed 5 to 30 minutes after intravenous injection of a solution of peptone no fibrin masses were found in the blood-vessels of the lungs or elsewhere .
No obvious defect of fibrinogen was observable after the injection of peptone , the blood clotting slowly , but after a time forming a firm coagulum , which retracted to about the normal extent .
The amount of peptone ( which it should be noted was not prepared from the flesh of the rabbit ) injected in these experiments ranged from 0'3 to 7-3 grm. per kilogramme of body weight .
Blood obtained from the internal carotid artery 10 to 20 minutes after injection was in no case permanently liquid , though as already * J. O. W. Barratt and W. York , loc. cit. t This amount corresponds to 4 grm. of peptone per kilogramme body weight .
Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
Nature of the mentioned coagulation was delayed , the onset occurring at room temperature in 25 to 60 minutes , the normal period being about 15 minutes .
The effect of peptone upon the coagulability of the blood was further studied in rabbits in a series of experiments in which blood was withdrawn by means of a paraffined cannula from the internal carotid artery , about 5 minutes after intravenous injection of peptone , and received into : ( 1 ) a paraffined tube ; ( 2 ) a second paraffined tube ; and ( 3 ) a glaSs tube not paraffined .
Immediately before injection blood was collected from the internal carotid artery into ( 4 ) a glass tube not paraffined .
Tube 1 was centrifugalised and liquid plasma ( la ) obtained , free from blood cells , which was preserved in a paraffined tube .
In this way it was found possible to compare the time of onset of coagulation under different experimental conditions .
Thus in one experiment , which may be taken as a type , a firm clot formed in ( 4 ) at the end of 10 minutes ; a soft clot formed in ( 3 ) at the end of 25 minutes ( remaining still soft at the end of 3^ hours ) ; the blood in ( 2 ) formed a soft clot at the end of two hours , still remaining soft and not retracted at the end of two days ; the plasma in ( la ) remained perfectly liquid at room temperature ( 15 ' to 17 ' C. ) for four days , changed to a somewhat thick liquid at the end of five days and had formed a soft clot at the end of seven days .
Experiments of this kind cannot be satisfactorily carried out if instead of peptone red cell stromata are employed , owing to the exceedingly lethal character of such injections .
A similar defect of coagulability may be observed when peptone acts upon a solution of fibrinogen vitro ; thus in the series of tests given on p. 186 a fairly firm clot formed in the second tube , while in the next three tubes the clot became increasingly soft , being exceedingly so in the fifth tube ; nevertheless at the end of two days all these tubes contained clots of normal firmness.* It is clear from the above that the effect of intravenous injection of thrombokinase is essentially different from that of injection of thrombin .
In the latter case an abundant intravascular formation of fibrin takes place attended with reduction of the amount of fibrinogen contained in the circulating fluid , while after the injection of thrombokinase in amounts equivalent , as far as coagulant action upon fibrinogen vitro is concerned , * The effect of injection of peptone into a dog , under conditions similar to those obtaining in Experiment 3 , differs somewhat from that observed when a rabbit is employed .
If the dog employed for experiment is resistant , the same delay of coagulation is observed , but the clot formed is much softer and retraction of the clot is imperfect or absent .
If , however , a dog which is susceptible to the action of peptone is kept fasting for 48 hours before injection of peptone , then blood collected from the internal carotid artery remains , as is well known , for a long time liquid , though containing fibrinogen in apparently undiminished amount and clotting on the addition of thrombin .
Coagulant of the Venom of Echis carinatus .
183 to the thrombin injected , * little or no fibrinogen is removed , the amount of fibrin subsequently obtainable from the blood not being markedly diminished , so that it may be doubted whether the exceedingly limited separation of fibrin occasionally observed after injection of red cell stromata is more than a subsidiary and perhaps relatively unimportant process attending the action of thrombokinase ; the difference , in respect of fibrin formation , between the injection of thrombin and thrombokinase cannot be attributed to the latter being introduced in a relatively insufficient amount .
The effect of thrombokinase upon circulating blood plasma is thus seen to be strikingly different from its action upon a solution of fibrinogen vitro in presence of calcium chloride .
In the latter case coagulation occurs ; in the former no coagulant action is observed or at most only an insignificant quantity of fibrinogen is converted into fibrin .
The two experiments are , however , essentially different .
When thrombokinase acts vitro its action is directed to the conversion of prothrombin into thrombin in presence of calcium chloride .
When on the other hand thrombokinase acts upon circulating blood plasma in presence of the free calcium salt contained in the plasma ( and the same is true if the calcium content of the plasma is increased by injection of calcium chloride ) the non-production of thrombin proves that prothrombin is not present in the circulating blood plasma .
By a similar mode of reasoning based upon experiments in vitro , Bordet and Delangef have shown that prothrombin does not at first exist in fluid plasma ( plasma limpide ) , whence these observers conclude that in this fluid it is represented by an antecedent body which bears the same relation to prothrombin ( serozyme of Bordet ) that prothrombin bears to thrombin ; and as the term fibrin-ferment is applied to thrombin , which reacts with fibrinogen to form fibrin , so , using the same mode of nomenclature , the substance which takes part in the conversion of proserozyme into serozyme may be termed serozyme-ferment , though the exact mode in which the latter substance is concerned in the coagulation of shed blood has still to be determined .
The explanation of the failure of thrombokinase when injected into the blood stream to cause fibrin formation lies , therefore , in the fact that it is unable of itself to change proserozyme into serozyme .
In those experiments in which , after the injection of red-cell stromata , a small amount of fibrin is recognisable in the blood-vessels of the lungs , it would appear that either * If the amounts injected per kilogramme of body weight in Experiments 1 , 2 , and 3 had been such as would coagulate in vitro equal quantities of fibrinogen solution , according to the data given in the next section , then the amount of stromata injected in Experiment 2 would have been increased two and a half times , while the amount of peptone injected in Experiment 3 would have been reduced to one-twelfth .
+ J. Bordet and L. Delange , loc. cit. Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
Nature of the a small amount of thrombin or else of serozyme-ferment is also introduced or set free at the time of injection , leading to the intravascular separation of fibrin in relatively insignificant quantity .
It is obvious that the above method of injection into the circulating blood plasma will enable a liquid , which has been shown by tests vitro to contain thrombin , to be distinguished from a second liquid which has similarly been shown to contain thrombokinase .
The plasma contained in circulating blood is , moreover , the only liquid to which the designation " fluid plasma " or " stable plasma " can with propriety be applied .
Up to the present no " fluid plasma " has been prepared which is not recognisably different from circulating blood plasma .
Effect of Heat upon Thrombin and Thrombokinase .
Method.\#151 ; A solution of fibrinogen was obtained as follows from plasma prepared by Freund 's method.* The internal carotid artery of a rabbit was exposed and ligatured in its upper part , a spring forceps being applied to the lower part of the vessel , which was then opened below the ligature and thoroughly washed out with 085-per-cent , solution of sodium chloride by means of a paraffined capillary pipette , after which a paraffined cannula was introduced .
By releasing the forceps blood was allowed to flow from the cannula into a paraffined tube , which was then centrifugalised until the red cells were precipitated .
The supernatant liquid plasma was next removed with a paraffined pipette and mixed with 20 volumes of distilled water through which a stream of COa had been passed .
The fibrinogen , which was thereby precipitated from solution , was collected by centrifugalisation and dissolved in 085-per-cent .
solution of sodium chloride , the volume of the liquid thus obtained being made equal to that of the plasma employed .
A solution of thrombin was prepared by adding to 10 c.c. of solution of fibrinogen 0'9 c.c. of a 0'6-per-cent , solution of calcium chloride , together with such an amount of a suspension of stromata of the red cells of the rabbitf ( usually about 2'5 c.c. ) as would produce a coagulum at the end of 15 minutes at 37 ' C. From this coagulum about 13 c.c. of fluid ( = thrombin solution ) was expressed with a glass rod at the end of two hours .
Thrombin is destroyed by exposure to a temperature of 55 ' C. for 30 minutes , or to a temperature of 60 ' C. for about five minutes .
This effect of heating is illustrated below :\#151 ; * E. Freund , " Ein Beitrag sir Kenntniss der Blutgerinnung , " ' Wien med .
Jahrbiicher , 1886 , p. 46 ; " Uber die Ursache der Blutgerinnung , " ibid. , 1888 , p. 260 .
t Prepared as described in the preceding section , p. 180 .
Coagulant of the Venom of Echis carinatus .
Fibrinogen solution .
Thrombin solution .
0 '6-per-cent .
CaCl2 solution .
0 '85-per-cent .
NaCl solution .
0 *83-per-cent .
solution of potassium oxalate .
Coagulation time ( 30 ' C. ) .
c.c. C.C. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0*2 \#151 ; 0*03 0*27 \#151 ; 90 minutes .
0*2 0 01 0*03 0-26 \#151 ; 4 " 0-2 0*03 0*03 0*24 \#151 ; 3 " 0*2 0-10 0*03 0 17 \#151 ; 45 seconds .
0-2 0*30* 0*03 0-07 \#151 ; 18 minutes .
0*2 \#151 ; \#151 ; 0 27 0*03 3 hours .
0-2 0 01 \#151 ; 0*27 0*03 4 minutes .
0 2 0 03 \#151 ; 0*26 0*03 3 " 0*2 0*10 \#151 ; 0*24 0*03 45 seconds .
0-2 0*30* \#151 ; 0 07 0*03 18 minutes .
* Previously heated to 60 ' for 5 minutes , The fibrinogen solution at 30 ' C. formed a soft eoagulum in 90 minutes to three hours .
After the addition of 0*01 c.c. of thrombin solution coagulation took place in four minutes .
When , however , the thrombin solution had been previously heated it was found to have its power of producing coagulation very considerably reduced .
Thrombokinase was stated by Schmidt* to be thermostable ; Morawitz , f however , asserted that thrombokinase is thermolabile ; but Bordet and Delange| subsequently confirmed Schmidt 's observation .
In our experiments , as already mentioned , we have usually employed as source of thrombokinase a suspension of the stromata of the red blood cells of the rabbit , obtained by centrifugalising oxalated rabbit 's blood , washing the red cells thus obtained with 0 85-per-cent , sodium chloride solution , and then laking by the addition of an equal volume of distilled water ; in other experiments , however , peptone has been employed as source of thrombokinase .
The coagulant effect of red cell stromata in presence of calcium chloride is shown in the first table on p. 186 .
It will be observed that heating had no marked effect upon thrombokinase , though the liquid employed as source of thrombokinase was thereby rendered turbid .
The coagulum formed was in all cases firm .
* A. Schmidt , 'Zur Blutlehre , ' Leipzig , 1892 ; 'Weitere Beitrage sir Blutlehre , ' Wiesbaden , 1895 .
+ Morawitz , * Hofmeister 's Beitr .
, ' 1903 , vol. 4 , p. 381 .
+ J. Bordet and L. Delange , loc. cit. VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B. O Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
Nature of the Fibrinogen solution .
Thrombokinase ( suspension of red-cell stromata of rabbit ) .
0 *6-per-cent .
CaCls solution .
0 *85-per-cent .
NaCl solution .
0 *83-per-cent .
solution of potassium oxalate .
Coagulation time ( 30 ' C. ) .
c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0*2 0*03 0*27 \#151 ; 90 minutes .
0*2 0*01 0*03 0-26 \#151 ; 21 " 0*2 0*03 0 03 0-24 \#151 ; 7 \#163 ; " 0*2 0*10 0*03 0-17 \#151 ; 6 " 0*2 0*10* 0*03 0*17 \#151 ; 8 " 0*2 \#151 ; \#151 ; 0 27 , 0 *03 3 hours .
0*2 0*01 \#151 ; 0 26 0*03 3 " 0*2 0*03 \#151 ; 0-24 0*03 2i " 0*2 0*10 \#151 ; 0-17 0*03 2* V 0*2 0*10* \#151 ; 0*17 0*03 2 a , , * Previously heated to 60 ' for 5 minutes .
The effect of heat upon a peptone solution is thus exhibited :\#151 ; Fibrinogen solution .
Thrombokinase ( 5-per-cent .
solution of peptone ) .
0 *6-per-cent .
CaCl2 solution .
0 *85-per-cent .
NaCl solution .
0 '83-per-cent .
solution of potassium oxalate .
Coagulation time ( 30 ' C. ) .
c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0*2 \#151 ; 0*03 0*27 \#151 ; 90 minutes .
0*2 0*01 0*03 0*26 \#151 ; 12 " 0*2 0 03 0*03 0*24 \#151 ; 15 " 0*2 0*10 0*03 0*17 \#151 ; 20 " 0*2 0*30 0*03 -w ... \#151 ; - .
50 " 0*2 0*01* 0*03 0*26 1 \#151 ; \#166 ; 15 " 0*2 \#151 ; \#151 ; 0*27 0*03 3 hours .
0*2 0*01 \#151 ; 0*26 0*03 2i j\gt ; 0*2 0*03 \#151 ; 0*24 0*03 2\#163 ; j ) 0*2 0*10 _ 0*17 0*03 2\#163 ; " 0*2 0*30 \#151 ; \#151 ; .
0*03 2i* \gt ; 5 0*2 0*01* \#151 ; 0*26 0*03 2\#163 ; " * Previously heated to 60 ' for 5 minutes .
With the addition of increasing amounts of peptone in presence of calcium chloride delay of the onset of coagulation was observed , the coagula being very soft .
The Action of Viper Venom upon Circulating Blood Plasma .
The lethal amount of the venom of Bchis carinatus ( administered by intravenous injection ) was found by C. J. Martin to be for the rabbit about half a milligramme per kilogramme of body weight ; if a large dose of viper venom was injected rapidly into a vein , intravascular clotting occurred ; if a relatively small dose was injected very slowly , the coagulability of the Coagulant of the Venom of Echis carinatus .
187 blood was diminished .
It may here be observed that very small doses ( 0 03 mgrm .
or less per kilogramme of body weight ) fail to produce any recognisable ill effect in rabbits .
The effect of intravenous injection of viper venom upon circulating blood plasma was studied in a series of experiments similar to the following:\#151 ; Experiment 4.\#151 ; A rabbit weighing 384 grm. received into the vein of the ear an injection of 2 c.c. of 0-65-per-cent .
sodium chloride solution containing 043 mgrm .
of viper venom ( 0 34 mgrm .
per kilogramme of body weight ) .
Five minutes after the completion of injection , which occupied one minute , the animal , which had not up to this time been obviously affected , showed signs of feebleness , and then became convulsed , death occurring about three-quarters of a minute later .
At the post-mortem examination , which was made without delay , the blood in the superior vena cava , the right auricle and ventricle of the heart and the pulmonary artery was found to be clotted , the clot extending into the vein injected ; on the left side of the heart , in the aorta , portal vein , and lower part of the vena cava , liquid blood was found ; the lungs collapsed normally on opening the chest .
On microscopical examination of the lungs after death by viper venom it was found that in all cases , no matter whether intravascular coagulation resulted ( four experiments ) or the blood coagulated slowly ( three experiments ) or remained permanently liquid ( three experiments ) , fibrin masses , filaments , and fibrils could be readily recognised .
The appearance presented by the collections of fibrin was exactly the same as that presented when relatively large doses of thrombin solution had been injected , so that it was not possible from an examination of the lungs to state whether the coagulant injected had been the latter or the former .
The diminished coagulability or " negative phase " exhibited after the intravenous injection of viper venom is therefore dependent upon the removal of fibrinogen under the action of the coagulant .
As already mentioned , Martin* observed that the slow injection in the dog of small quantities ( .
below 04 mgrm .
per kilo- gramme of body weight ) of viper ( Pseucl ) venom resulted in the production of liquid blood , and it is easy to understand how this procedure , by allowing time for the contraction of the delicate fibrin network , which is at first formed , into dense masses of relatively small size , would cause far less blocking of vessels and resulting interference with the circulation than would the rapid injection of the same or smaller amounts of venom .
Nevertheless , in my experiments upon rabbits , liquid blood has followed the injection ( in the coftrse of about one minute ) of relatively large * C. J. Martin , 1893 , loc. cit. , p. 382 .
Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
Nature of the quantities of venom ( 3-4-0-6 mgrm .
per kilogramme of body weight ) , , Liquid blood , moreover , does not exclude the presence of visible clot in the larger vessels .
Thus in the experiment referred to at the close of the next section , in which 0'73 mgrm .
of venom per kilogramme of body weight was injected into a rabbit , it was found that the heart was continuing to beat feebly and slowly after respiration had stopped and all movements of the voluntary muscles had ceased .
On opening the right ventricle 5 c.c. of blood was obtained , which remained permanently liquid .
The vein of the ear , external jugular , superior and inferior caval veins , portal and renal veins were all distended with clot ; nevertheless , obstruction to the circulation was not complete , and blood was delivered from the incised right ventricle at each beat .
In the blood-vessels of the lungs fibrin filaments and masses were abundant .
That the appearance of liquid blood after injection of viper venom is dependent upon removal of fibrinogen is shown not only by the appearance of fibrin in blood-vessels , particularly of the lungs , but also by the result of examination of the fibrinogen content of the liquid blood .
Thus it was found that when one part of the thrombin solution employed in the preceding section was mixed with two parts of the liquid blood obtained in the experiment just described , coagulation did not occur , though the thrombin solution was capable of coagulating two parts of fibrinogen solution in about three-quarters of a minute .
The liquid blood was , however , found to contain thrombin , for when added to two parts of fibrinogen solution coagulation occurred at the end of one and a half minutes ; the same result was obtained if one-fifteenth part of 0'83-per-cent , potassium oxalate solution had also been previously added .
The thrombin in question cannot have been produced by the action of venom upon fibrinogen , for serum expressed from a coagulum so obtained , as , for example , in the second experiment of the series given on p. 189 , exhibits the usual character of Serum from a clot produced by the action of thrombin upon fibrinogen solution under similar conditions of experiment , that is to say , it possesses scarcely any recognisable coagulant action on fibrinogen .
It follows , therefore , that the thrombin contained in the liquid blood consists of venom .
In the experiment in question the amount of venom injected into the blood represented 1 part in 70,000 parts of blood .
In the next section it is shown that 1 part in 15,000,000 is capable of coagulating a solution containing fibrinogen in approximately two-fifths of the concentration present in blood plasma ; it is therefore to be expected that part of the venom injected would remain unchanged in the liquid blood , thereby conferring upon it a coagulant action when added to fibrinogen solution .
Coagulant of the Venom Echis carinatus .
Even when , after the injection of a lethal dose of viper venom , clotting occurs in the heart and great blood-vessels , the ease with which fibrin masses can be recognised in the smaller pulmonary vessels renders it possible readily to distinguish between the effect of injection of thrombin or viper venom and that of a relatively large amount of thrombokinase contained in red-cell stromata or peptone .
It is obvious from the effect of injection of viper venom into the blood stream that the coagulant in the venom is a thrombin and not a thrombokinase .
* The Effect of Heat upon Viper Venom .
The blood coagulant of the venom of the Indian viper , carinatus , is completely destroyed by heating to 75 ' C. for 10 to 15 minutes.* The following experiments exhibit the coagulant activity of this venom before and after heating :\#151 ; Fibrinogen solution .
Solution of viper venom 1 in 300,000 of 0 '85-per-cent .
NaCl .
0 '6-per-cent .
CaCl , solution .
0 '85-per-cent .
NaCl solution .
0 '83-per-cent .
solution of potassium oxalate .
Coagulation time ( 30 ' C. ) .
c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0-2 \#151 ; 0*03 0-27 \#151 ; 90 minutes .
0-2 0-01 0*03 0-26 \#151 ; 10 0 2 0 03 0-03 0-24 \#151 ; 5 0-2 o-io 0-03 0-17 \#151 ; 4 0-2 0-30 0 '03 \#151 ; \#151 ; 3 0-2 0-30* 0 05 \#151 ; \#151 ; 53-60 " 0-2 \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-27 0*03 3 hours .
0 2 o-oi \#151 ; 0-26 0'03 16 minutes .
0-2 0-03 \#151 ; 0 24 0'03 10 0-2 o-io \#151 ; 0-17 0*03 7 0-2 0-30 \#151 ; \#151 ; 0*03 4 0-2 0-30* ~\#151 ; \#151 ; 0 03 60 " # Heated to 75 ' for 10 minutes .
It will be seen that viper venom , even when present to the extent of only 1 part in 15,000,000 , is capable of coagulating in ten minutes at 30 ' C. a liquid containing approximately the same concentration of fibrinogen as normal rabbit 's plasma .
When heated , however , its coagulant action rapidly disappears .
It is obvious from the effect of heating that the coagulant of viper venom cannot be regarded as thrombokinase as Mellanbyf has suggested .
Its behaviour in respect of heat shows it to be a thrombin .
* C. J. Martin , 1905 , toe .
cit. t J. Mellanby , loc. cit. , p. 467 .
VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B. p 190 Mr. Porter and Dr. Edridge-Green .
Negative After-Images The intravenous injection of heated venom , even in the amount of IT mgrm .
per kilogramme of body weight , was found to be without effect upon rabbits ; examination of sections of the lungs and also of the liver , spleen , kidney , and heart muscle of animals killed half an hour after injection failed to reveal any separation of fibrin in the blood-vessels .
A control experiment , in which 073 mgrm .
per kilogramme of body weight was injected in the course of one minute , caused death at the end of 30 seconds .
The behaviour of heated venom , when injected into the blood stream , is thus seen to be consistent with the conclusion that the coagulant is a thrombin .
Summary .
The different mode of action exerted by thrombin and thrombokinase upon circulating blood plasma is described , and it is shown that the coagulant of viper ( .Echiscarinaius ) venom , as exhibited by its effect in causing intravascular separation of fibrin when injected into the blood stream , and also indicated by its behaviour when cheated , is a thrombin and not a thrombokinase .
Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast with Pure Spectral Colours .
By A. W. Porter , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Fellow of University of London University College , and F. W. Edridge-Green , M.D. , F.R.C.S. ( Received March 31 , \#151 ; Read November 13 , 1913 .
) In a recent paper* Prof. Burch has criticised our results on " Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast with Pure Spectral Colours."f Prof. Burch suggests that the change in blue and violet obtained after fatigue with red light may be explained on the Young theory , if the stray light , which we stated was present , be taken into consideration .
He states that the reason , on this theory , why the violet appeared bluer and darker after fatigue to red was due to the elimination of the red component in the stray light .
In consequence of this criticism we have since repeated our experiments , taking the most minute precautions to exclude stray light by covering the * 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1913 , B , vol. 86 , p. 117 .
t ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , B , vol. 85 , p. 434 .

