ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; 0 .
P.-CAMBRIDGE .
Arachnida .
By Rev. 0 .
B-CM .
A. , C.M.Z.S. ( Plate XIII .
) The few examples of Arachnida found during the Transit of Venus Expedition to Kerguelen 's Land , were all apparently new to science .
One , indeed , at present seems to me incapable of inclusion in any previously recognised order of Arachnids .
The whole collection consisted of but five species ; one of Araneidea , and three of Acaridea , the fifth , being that upon which I have founded a new genus , family , and order .
At first sight this delicate little Arachnid gave me the idea of being a Chelifer deprived of its forcipated palpi ; but a subsequent examination with a stronger lens showed me that it possessed palpi of an entirely different character from those of the pseudo-Scorpiones ; and a final scrutiny under a still higher power led to the detection of the eyes : in the number and position of these there is displayed a remarkable similarity to the Solpugidea , while there are not wanting some general indications of affinity to the Araneidea .
Its small size and general appearance when alive would probably induce one to refer it to the Acaridea ; but the structure of the mouth-parts , the distinct cephalothorax and abdomen , and especially the character of the eyes , seem to preclude this allocation .
It is possible , however , that when the Acaridea shall be more thoroughly worked out by some future arachnologist , the present anomalous little creature may become the type of a suborder , or perhaps of only a family of that order .
Meanwhile in forming a distinct order for its reception , I desire to obtain the free criticism and opinion of arachnologists * more conversant than myself with some obscure groups of Acaridea , as to its true systematic position .
The following descriptions are reprinted from the Proc. Zool. Soc. Peb .
1876 , pp. 259-265 ; and the plate is almost the same as in op .
cit. pi .
xix .
, the difference consisting chiefly in the addition of the figures of , and the greater enlargement of some of the others .
ACAKIDEA .
Acarides .
Torynophora .
Body oval ; a slightly indented transverse line towards the fore part on the upperside appears to mark the junction of the cephalothorax and abdomen .
Mouth* Dr. T. Thorell inclines to the opinion that this Arachnid is an E E 2 parts almost soldered together , leaving only the short palpi and the extremities of the falces traceable .
Legs8 , slender , in 4 pairs ( 1-2 and 3-4 on each side ) , 5-jointed , and terminating with two somewhat S-curved claws springing from a small supernumerary or heel-joint .
Lies four , in two pairs , one pair on either side of the caput .
Falces armed on the underside with serrated opposed edges .
Palpi short , strong , 4-jointed , with a single strong curved jaw-like claw springing from its base on the upperside .
Torynophora serrata .
( Plate XIII .
, fig. 2 .
) Length about * 5 mm. This minute Acarid is of an oval form , tolerably convex above , and of a uniform pale luteous colour .
Prom the fore part of the cephalothorax four pointed processes project , each one terminating with a very small joint , from which springs a curious clavate or spoon-shaped bristle or tag ; a few with a somewhat similar tag are dispersed thinly over the upper surface of the body , which is closely wrinkled , the wrinkles taking different , hut regular , directions on the different parts of the body .
The eyes are very minute , in two pairs , one on either side of the caput ; those of each pair are near together hut not contiguous .
The legs are 5-jointed , slender , and not very long ; they are armed with fine spines , bristles , and hairs , and terminate with two tarsal S-shaped claws , springing from a small terminal joint , and furnished beneath with some slender prominent clavate hairs .
The legs are in pairs , the first and second , and third and fourth legs on each side having their basal joints respectively contiguous to each other , as in the genus Trombidium , and articulated to the fore half of the lower surface of the body .
The palpi are short strong , 4-jointed , and to the upperside of the base of the digital joint is articulated a strong curved claw .
The maxilla } , labium , and falces coalesce and form a kind of suctorial apparatus , towards the fore part of which on the underside are two opposed curved saw-edged processes .
Several examples of this curious Acarid , found under stones , were contained in in the Lev .
A. E. Eaton 's Kerguelen 's Land collection .
Being so very minute and delicate , they had suffered considerably by being preserved in strong spirit .
Eig .
2 .
a , upperside , highly magnified ; b , underside without the legs ; c , profile ; d , leg of first pair ; e , extremity of tarsus of ditto ; f , palpi ; 9- , extremity of one of the cephalic projections , highly magnified ; h , one of the clavate hairs on abdomen , highly magnified ; h , moutli-parts on underside , highly magnified ; o , natural length .
ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; 0 .
P.-CAMBRIDGE .
Acartjs .
Acarus neglectus , sp. n. Adult female .
Length one third of a line .
The body is of an oval form , broadest towards the fore part , whence it narrows quickly to the extremity of the caput .
The Cephalothorax is very short and coalesces with the abdomen , being scarcely traceable by a fine suture .
The whole is tolerably convex above , and of a dull yellowish , whitey-brown colour , furnished with a few fine bristly hairs on the upper side , and two longish divergent tapering plumose hairs projecting horizontally from the hinder part of the abdomen .
Eyes , none .
The palpi and falces are short , but of equal length .
The former are 5-jointed , the basal joint being the longest , and the latter have a strong denticulate forcipated claw .
The legs are short , articulated to the under side of the fore half of the body , and do not differ much in length , their relative length being apparently 4 , 3 , 2 , 1 , or 4 , 3 , 1 , 2 .
They are strong , tapering , and 6-jointed , the basal joints being , apparently , soldered to the under surface of the body , and the terminal or tarsal joint is undivided ; their colour is a dull yellowish brown , and they are furnished with some strong spines beneath the two last joints , as well as with a few hairs of different lengths ; the longest of the latter being one or two near the extremity of each of the tarsal joints , which last terminate with a strongisli sickle-shaped claw .
The genital aperture is placed just behind the basal joints of the fourth pair of legs , and consists of an elongate brown slip on a circular pale yellowisli-brown patch .
The basal orifice is situated just beneath the hinder extremity of the abdomen , and has the appearance of a simple brown longitudinal line .
The examples from which this description has been made were contained Fig. 1 , from above ; 2 , from beneath ; 3 , falces and palpi beneath ; 4 , left leg of the second pair .
amongst a mass of fibrous web-like substance received from Mr. Eaton with the other Kerguelen Island Arachnids , but were overlooked at the time when those were described and figured in the Zoological Society 's Proceedings for Eebruary 1876 , pp. 259-265 .
Bdellides .
Scirus .
C f Scirus pallidus .
( Plate XIII .
, fig. 3 .
) Length about 1 mm. As far as I could ascertain from the single example contained in the Kerguelen Island collection , this small Acarid is an undescribed species of the genus Scirus .
Its colour is a dull yellowish white , and there are a few obscure blackish markings in two parallel longitudinal lines along the upperside of the abdomen .
The body and legs are furnished with a few longish pale semidiaphanous hairs .
The eyes are in two pairs , those of each pair contiguous , and in the position indicated by the two small oval markings in figure 2 b. The only example received was injured by the action of the spirit in which it had been preserved , so that the exact details of its structure could not be satisfactorily observed ; in the general appearance , however , of the beak-like mouth-parts there seemed to be but little difference from the genus Bdella and others nearly allied .
Hab.\#151 ; Under stones near the lakes at Observatory Bay , in rather dry places .
Eig .
3 .
a , upperside ; 5 , upperside of caput and mouth-parts , more enlarged , showing the position of the eyes ; c , natural length .
Ixodides .
Hyalomma , Koch .
Hyalomma puta .
( Plate XIII .
, fig. 4 .
) Length about 1*25 mm. Body oval .
Cephalothorax yellowish brown , strongly tinged with red on either side of its fore part and on the fore part of the caput .
Abdomen dark yellow-brown , and ( as well as the cephalothorax ) thinly clothed with short pale hairs ; the hinder part of the abdomen is of a pale dull yellowish hue , and its margin is indented with four small elongate notches .
On each side of the underpart , just behind the basal joints of the 4th pair of legs , is a roundish patch , whose surface appears to be covered with minute points , which may possibly be the plates of spiracular organs .
The legs are moderately long and tolerably strong , 7-jointed , the last or tarsal joint being very small ; they are of a pale yellowish colour , marked underneath with patches of a bright shining orange red , and furnished with a few short hairs ; each ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; O. P.-CAMBRIDGE .
tarsus terminates with two curved diaphanous claws springing from a small claw-joint ; and beneath them is an oval sucker-like pad .
The palpi are five-jointed ( including the basal joints or maxillae ) ; these latter are of a reddish colour and soldered to the labium ; the colour of the palpi is similar to that of the legs ; the terminal ( or digital ) joint is short and small ; the next to it ( or radial ) is large and tumid , the other two joints short .
The length of the palpi slightly exceeds that of the falces .
The falces are porrected in the form of a beak , and are armed beneath with numerous sharp hooks or teeth directed backwards .
Several examples of this Acarid were found by the Have .
A. E. Eaton on a Penguin ( Pygoscelestaeniatus ) in Kerguelen 's Land ; and he also found some on a reef of rocks between tide-marks , lurking in crevices .
Eig .
4 .
a , upperside ; b , underside without legs ; c , caput , palpi , and falces , more enlarged ; d , natural length .
Pcecilophysidea .
External characters of the Order:\#151 ; Cephalothorax and abdomen covered with a continuous epidermis of a rather slight texture , unsegmented , and united to each other throughout their whole breadth , the point of junction being clearly indicated by a traverse line or suture .
Palpi filiform , and terminating with a single minute claw .
Legs eight in number , their basal joints closely grouped together on the sternal surface of the cephalothorax , the tarsi terminate with two claws , between which is a slender pectinated style .
Falces didactylous .
Maxillae coalescing at their base .
Labium ( properly so called ) wanting .
Lies two .
PCECILOPHYSIDES .
In its general appearance this curious little Arachnid seems to be a compound of the Spiders , Solpugids , Chelifers , and Acari .
On its upperside it reminds one strongly of the Solpugidea , both in the massive falces , and its two eyes on a small tubercle at the fore extremity of the caput ; its underside bears a strong resemblance in the maxillae and palpi to the Araneidea ; its profile resembles that of the pseudo-Scorpiones ; while in its small size , continuous , delicate epidermis , and closely approximated thorax and abdomen , it shows a strong likeness to the Acaridea .
PCECILOPHYSIS .
Eyes two , closely grouped on a small tubercle at the fore extremity of the caput , just between and above the base of the falces .
Falces massive , as long as the cephalothorax , two-clawed , the upper claw fixed , the lower movable , and both curved .
Maxillae large , coalescing at their base , and produced at their inner extremity into a strong angularly pointed projection .
Labium none , and sternum none , properly so called , the basal joints of the legs being articulated to the inferior surface of the cephalothorax .
Abdomen longer than the cephalothorax .
A small elongate oval aperture towards the hinder part of the underside is probably the genital opening , while a still more minute orifice beneath its extremity is probably the anal aperture .
Legs moderately long and tolerably strong ; they are 6-jointed , furnished with long bristles , and terminating in two S-curved claws , beneath which is a longish , slender , slightly upturned style , plumose or finely pectinated along its underside .
Palpi 4-jointed , similar to the legs in armature ; the terminal ( or digital ) joint ends with a small hooked claw ; and the bristles or hairs on it are long and plumose .
Poecilophysis kerguelenensis .
( Plate XIII .
, fig. 5 .
) Adult female .
Length about -75 mm. The cephalothorax is of a somewhat quadrate form , narrower before than at its junction with the abdomen ; it is moderately convex above , and has a few long pale hairs or slender bristles directed forwards on its upperside ; its profile line is nearly level ; and the colour of the cephalothorax and abdomen is pale yellow , the legs and other parts being of a whitish hue .
The eyes are small , but close together near the hinder part of a small roundish tubercle or eminence , at the middle of the fore extremity of the caput .
* The legs are 6-jointed , rather long , tolerably strong , not greatly differing in length , their relative length being 1 , 4 , 2 , 3 ; they are furnished with long pale bristles ; and the tarsi , which are undivided and with two claws , are curved somewhat in the form of an S ; beneath them is a largish bristle or style , pectinated or plumose on its inferior side .
The joints do not differ greatly in length , the first two or basal ones being the longest , and the rest nearly equal .
The palpi are similar , in their general armature , to the legs .
The digital joint is longer than the radial , and of an ovoid form ; its hairs are plumose , and the single terminal claw is sharply hooked and minute .
The falces are as long as the cephalothorax , very massive at the base and didactyle , the lower claw being movable and opposed to the upper one ; both claws are curved , but project in the same straight line and in the same plane as the cephalothorax , which the falces equal in length .
The maxillce are long , their inner extremities considerably produced into an angularly pointed form , and extending close beneath the falces , to about two-thirds of their length .
The abdomen , looked at in profile , is higher and more convex than the cephalo- thorax , and about double its length ; its fore extremity is conterminous in its breadth with the cephalothorax , but is constricted laterally near the middle , the hinder extremity being rounded and obtuse ; its upper surface is furnished with a few long pale hairs or bristles .
Several examples of this minute but most interesting Arachnid were found under stones in Kerguelen 's Land by Mr. Eaton .
Unfortunately , from their extreme AEACHNIDA.\#151 ; O. P.-CAMBRIDGE .
delicacy and small size , they had suffered severely from the action of the strong spirit in which they were immersed .
Fig. 4 .
a , upperside ; b , profile without legs or palpi ; c , extremity of tarsus of leg of second pair ; d , digital joint of palpus ; , portion of falces and maxillae in profile ; f , natural length .
i AEANEIDEA .
AGrELENIDES .
Myro .
Cephalothoraxoval , roundly truncated before , and moderately constricted on its lateral margins at the caput .
Upper convexity moderate ; profile-line slopes very gradually in a slightly curved line from the hinder slope to the ocular region ; clypeus unusually narrow , almost obsolete .
Spinners short , those of the inferior pair longest and strongest .
Eyes eight , unequal in size and forming a rather large and somewhat oval area , enclosed by two longitudinal curved rows of three eyes each ; the curves directed from each other ; within this area , and towards its fore part , are two minute eyes near together in a transverse line .
Legs not greatly different in relative length , which is 4 , 1 , 2 , 3 .
Each tarsus terminates with three claws .
Maxillce large , curved towards the labium , much and roundly protuberant on the outer sides towards their extremity , which is rather obliquely truncated ; the palpi issue from unusually near their lower extremities .
Labium rather more than half the length of the maxillae , very difficult to be seen clearly ; but its form is apparently oblong , slightly rounded at the apex .
Myro kerguelenensis .
( Plate XIII .
, fig. 6 .
) Adult male .
Length nearly 4*7 mm. The cephalothorax is of a yellow brown colour , the margins surrounded with a fine black line ; the normal grooves and indentations are well marked , and suffused with dusky black , giving the thorax somewhat the appearance of radiating markings ; the ocular region is furnished with some bristly black hairs ; and some longer and finer ones are distributed along the central longitudinal line to the hinder slope .
The eyes are unequal in size , and form a largish hexagonal area on the fore part of the caput close to its fore margin ; they may he described either as in two longitudinal curved rows of three eyes each , with two minute ones in a transverse line towards the fore extremity of the enclosed area , or as four pairs , a hinder pair , two fore lateral pairs , and a fore central pair ; those of the hinder pair are separated by an interval of an eye 's diameter , and each is also divided by an equal interval from the hinder eye of the lateral pair on its side ; the eyes of each lateral pair are separated by a slight interval , not exceeding half the diameter of one of the fore p F central eyes ; the hind laterals are the largest of the eight ; and the interval between the fore laterals is equal to about ll\gt ; diameter ; the interval between the eyes of the fore central pair is equal to a diameter , the distance of each from the fore lateral on its side being rather greater ; and that of each from the hind lateral is equal to the diameter of the latter ; the interval between the fore lateral eyes and the fore margin of the caput is very slight indeed , being less than the diameter of one of the central eyes .
The legs are moderately long and strong ; their relative length does not differ greatly , being 4 , 1 , 2 , 3 .
They are of a brownish yellow colour , faintly and imperfectly annulated with dusky brown ; the annulations are scarcely perceptible in some examples .
They are furnished with spines , bristles , and hairs , some of the latter being at right angles to the different joints ; each tarsus terminates with three curved claws , of which the inferior is much the smallest , and sharply bent downwards .
The pcdpi are similar in colour to the legs ; furnished with hairs and a few bristles , and of moderate length and strength .
The cubital joint is short and bent ; the radial is slightly longer and spreads out gradually on its outer side into a somewhat irregularly shaped , prominent , but not very large apophysis at its fore extremity ; the digital joint is long and rather narrow , similar in form to that of some species of Tegenarict ; the palpal organs are simple , and have a long curved filiform spine connected with them , and by which they are very nearly encircled ; this spine issues from the base of the palpal organs , and curving first round their inner margin terminates on the opposite side .
The falces are long , strong , and vertical , prominent near their base in front , and similar in colour to the cephalothorax .
The maxillae are similar in colour to the falces ; their form has been already described above .
The labium has also been described .
Its colour is dark blackish brown .
The sternum is heart-shaped , similar in colour to the legs , and furnished with hairs .
The abdomen is oval , moderately convex above , and does not project greatly over the base of the cephalothorax .
It is clothed with hairs , some on the fore part of the upperside being prominent and of a bristly nature .
Its colour is brownish yellow mixed with brown and black , a tolerably distinct pattern being visible on the upperside ; that on the fore half consists of two longitudinal curved rows , each of three irregular yellowish spots , followed ( on the hinder half ) by a series of alternate yellowish and black angular bars or chevrons , the angles directed forwards ; or the hinder half may be described as of a yellowish colour marked with a series ot four or six black angular bars , which diminish in size towards the spinners ; the underside of the abdomen is of a uniform blackish brown colour with an indistinct pale longitudinal line on either side .
ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; O. P.-CAMBRIDGE .
The spinners of the inferior pair are strong but short , though longer than those of the superior pair .
The female resembles the male in general colour and markings ; the sides of the abdomen , however , on the hinder half are paler than those of the male , and are marked with two differently sized oblique irregular blackish markings ; the genital aperture is simple , but of a distinctive form .
Eight males and one female were received from the Rev. A. E. Eaton , by whom they were found on Kerguelen 's Land under stones , and running also at times on the ground .
This spider ( as above observed ) , the only one found on the island , is of great interest , being unmistakeably allied to Tegenaria and , though quite distinct from both .
Eig .
5 .
a , upperside ; b , fore part of caput and falces , from the front , showing the position of the eyes ; c , profile ; d , maxillae and labium ; e , g , left palpus in two positions ; h , genital aperture ( ?
) ; / , natural length .
f f 2 .
of Venus ExpecL .
Kerotjei. 'em Island .
Zoology PL XTIE .
6 ?
erby lifcH .
L/ IinLem Bro 9 imp

