298 Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Apr. 30 , In two uteri menstruation was imminent , but the flow had not begun .
In these the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus was fully developed , and had begun to undergo fatty degeneration .
There was a marked distinction between it and the muscular tissue throughout the uterine cavity : it was highly congested . .
In one uterus the menstrual flow had taken place for one day , and in another for two or three days before death .
In these there was extravasation of blood into the mucous membrane , and the latter had in part been disintegrated and removed .
Menstruation appears essentially to consist , not in a congestion or a species of erection , but in growth and rapid decay of the mucous membrane .
The menstrual discharge consists chiefly of blood and of the debris of the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus .
The source of the haemorrhage is the vessels of the body of the uterus .
The mucous membrane having undergone fatty degeneration , blood becomes extrava-sated into its substance ; then the membrane undergoes rapid disintegration , and is entirely carried away with the menstrual discharge .
A new mucous membrane is then developed by proliferation of the inner layer of the uterine wall , the muscular tissue producing fusiform cells , and the groups of round cells enclosed in the meshes of the muscular bundles producing the columnar epithelium of the glands .
II .
" On Leaf-Arrangement .
" By Hubert Airy , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Charles Darwin , F.R.S. Received March 23 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is offered in correction and extension of the views contained in a previous paper by the same author , read 27th February 1873 , ' " ; \#166 ; V. .
The main facts of leaf-arrangement to be accounted for are:\#151 ; ( 1 ) the division into vertitillate and alternate leaf-order ; ( 2 ) in the former , the equal division of the circumference of the stem by the leaves of each whorl , and the alternation , in angular position , of successive whorls ; ( 3 ) in the latter , the arrangement of leaves in a spiral series round the stem , with uniform angular divergence between successive leaves , and the limitation of that angular divergence ( represented as a fraction of the circumference ) to certain fractional values ( in most cases only approximate ) which find place most commonly in the following convergent series ( A):\#151 ; 1 1 # 3 ' 2 3 5 8 13 21 34 55 5 ' 8 ' 13 ' 21 ' 34 ' 55 ' 89 ' 144 ' \lt ; fcc .
; ( A ) 1874 .
] Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
more rarely in the following ( B):\#151 ; 1 1 2 3 5 8 13 .
3 ' 4 ' f TV l8 ' 29 ' 47 ' ' ... ... ... ... ... ... .
very rarely in the following ( 0 ) :\#151 ; 1 1 2 3 5 \amp ; c .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..(C ) 4 ' 5 ' 9 ' 14 ' 23 ' ^C " ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..V ' besides a few isolated values , gi which would find place in higher series .
( Hof ineister , ' Allgemeine Morphologic der Gewiichse , ' p. 449 .
Leipzig , 1868 .
) Dealing first with the phenomena of alternate leaf-order , the theory is advanced that , in each of the series A , B , 0 , \amp ; c. , the higner orders have been derived from some lower order of the same series by a process of condensation advantageous to the species in which those higher orders are found ; that the scene of this condensation of leaf-order has been the bud and other close-packed forms of plant-growth ; and that the immediate gain has been better economy of space .
In support of this theory it is argued , first , that the use of leaf-order is to be found in that stage of the life of a shoot in which the leaf-order is most regular and perfect .
Leaf-order is seen in perfection in close-packed forms of plant-growth , such as the the bulb , the radical rosette , the involucre , the composite head , the catkin , the cone , even the seed itself .
Therefore it must be in these forms that leaf-order is especially useful .
In elongated shoots , on the contrary , with long internodes and distant leaves , the leaf-order has a tendency to lose that regularity which it enjoyed in the bud , and is often disarranged by a twist of the stem or by contortion of the leaf-stalks ( required for the better display of the leaf-blades to the light ) .
The native arrangement of the leaves ( excluding the order ^ is often a positive disadvantage to them in lateral twigs .
It is only in the more vertical and unembarrassed shoots that the leaf-blades remain content with their distributive position .
Indeed , one chief use of the leaf-stalk seems to be to enable the leaf-blade to make the best of an unfavourable birth-place .
( Yew , silver fir , box , and privet are instanced as examples .
) Hence it appears probable that the use of leaforder is not to be found in the elongated shoot . .
Looking , then , to the above-mentioned close-packed forms of plant-growth as the scene of the usefulness of leaf-order , it is seen that the characteristic feature which distinguishes them from the elongated forms is contact between neighbouring leaves ( or shoots ) .
The whole surface of the stem is occupied by their bases , and no vacant interstices are left between them .
It is plain that the process of cell-growth has resulted in great mutual pressure between neighbouring leaves and shoots .
Recognizing Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Apr. 30 , this fact of mutual pressure , we can see that leaf-order is useful in these close-packed forms by securing equal development of leaves and therefore economy of space .
If the whole space is to be occupied , and the leaves or shoots are to have equal development , there must be orderly arrangement of some kind .
The principle of economy of space under mutual pressure is put forward as of chief importance in leaf-arrangement .
It appears that economy of space is especially demanded in a longitudinal direction , for the sake of protection against vicissitudes of temperature and the attacks of enemies .
In a bud , for example , it is evidently important , on the one hand , that as many leaves as possible should attain as high development as their situation will allow , in order that they may be ready at the first approach of spring to complete that development and enter on their function without loss of time ; but , on the other hand , it is evidently important that the embryo shoot should be as short as possible , in order that it may be well within the guard of the protecting scales and less exposed to danger during the long period of bud-life .
These claims will be satisfied by a vertical condensation of the leaf-order , such as the state of mutual pressure of the^ embryo leaves and shoots is calculated to bring about .
That the arrangements represented by the lower terms of the above-mentioned series A , B , C , \amp ; c. would , under a force of longitudinal condensation , actually give rise to the successive arrangements represented by the higher terms of the same series , is shown by diagrams , in which the necessary consequences of each step of condensation are made apparent to the eye .
In these diagrams a leaf or shoot is represented ( for mechanical considerations ) by a sphere , and the spheres are numbered from 0 upwards .
Taking , first , series A , the lowest order of that series , i , is represented by two vertical rows of spheres , those of each row being in contact and alternating with those of the other .
If these two rows remain vertical , no longitudinal condensation can take place .
The first step towards such condensation must be their spontaneous deviation from the vertical .
( Instances of such deviation in nature are found in the genus Gasteriaand others , to be considered further on .
) The next step required is some force of vertical compression , such as would result in nature from the stunting of the bud-axis ( due directly to cold or indirectly to the advantage of protection gained thereby ) , attended with less , if any , stunting of the leaves .
Then it is seen that the successive stages of condensation , beginning with the order i , will bring successively into contact with 0 ( zero ) the following numbers , 3 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 21 , 34 , 55 , 89 , 144 , \amp ; c. , alternately to right and left , producing in succession 1874 .
] Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
a series of orders which exactly resemble those found in nature , represented approximately by the successive terms of series A:\#151 ; 1 2 3 5 8 13 3 ' 5 ' 8 ' 13 ' 21 ' 34 ' \amp ; C* The first two or three stages of this process may be illustrated by mechanical experiment .
Attach two rows of light spheres in alternate order on opposite sides of a stretched india-rubber band , give the band a slight twist , and relax tension ; the system rolls up with strong twist into a tight complex order with three steep spirals , an approximation to the order | : if the spheres are set a little away from the axis , the order O becomes condensed into ( nearly ) with five nearly vertical ranks ; and it is plainly seen that further contraction , with increased distance of the spheres from the axis , will necessarily produce in succession the orders ( nearly ) g , \#151 ; , \#151 ; , \amp ; c. , and that these successive orders represent successive maxima of stability in the process of change from the simple to the complex .
These results are not invalidated by the consideration that the natural development of leaves is not simultaneous but successive .
By other diagrams it is shown that the same process of condensation operating on the orders represented by the lower fractions of series B 1 , \amp ; c.^ will produce the higher orders of that series .
The same is also shown for series C Q , \amp ; c.^ .
From the striking correspondence thus brought out between fact and theory , the conclusion is anticipated that we have here a clue to the secret of complex spiral leaf-order\#151 ; that it is the result of condensation operating on some earlier and simpler order or orders , the successive stages of that condensation being ruled by the geometrical necessities of mutual accommodation among the leaves and axillary shoots under mutual pressure in the bud ( taking the bud as the type of close-packed forms ) .
irom this point of view , Hofmeister 's law , that every leaf is found at that point in the circumference of the stem which has been left most open by the earlier leaves of the cycle , means that every leaf stands in that position relative to its neighbours which gave it most room for development in the bud .
Allusion was made above to deviation of leaf-ranks from the vertical as a necessary first step towards condensation .
A series of six diagrams shows the gradual transition presented by different species of the South-African genus Gasteria , from a form in which the two ranks are exactly 302 Dr- H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Apr. 30 , vertical , to a form in which they are strongly twisted into a com-plex order with angular divergence nearly - , differing from - by only \#151 ; of the circumference , and evidently admitting of further twist and 35 o closer approximation to the order - .
Prom this striking series it is inferred that ranks originally vertical can and do acquire and transmit a tendency to deviate from the vertical , and that this tendency admits of augmentation to a high degree .
Assuming a twist , then , as a probable primary variation from an originally vertical condition of leaf-ranks , it is plain that each leaf would take a lower position , and the whole bud ( with the same number of leaves ) would be shorter , than in the untwisted form .
The shorter bud , it is supposed , would have an advantage in cold seasons .
The direct action of cold , by stunting the bud-axis ( provided it did not stunt the leaves in the same proportion ) , would increase the twist .
It may fairly be supposed that this twist wrould be taken advantage of and increased by natural selection in subservience to the close packing of the leaves .
This course of modification is equivalent to the continued action of a force of vertical compression ( mentioned above as the second requisite for condensation ) .
Transition similar to that in Gasteria is seen in the genus Aloe .
Compare the two vertical ranks of A. verrucosa with the two twisted ranks of A. obliqua .
In A. serra ( Sachs , ' Lehrbuch der Botanik , ' fig. 144 ) the change from the vertical to the strongly twisted form is found in the same plant : the basal leaves are in order ~ ; the higher take complex order .
Exactly comparable ( in this respect ) with Aloe serra are the common laurel , Portugal laurel , Spanish chestnut , ivy , and others , which exhibit a similar change of leaf-order .
These instances agree in presenting the complex order in the buds or parts of buds which occupy the most exposed situations , while they retain the simple order i in the less exposed lateral buds or in their basal portion .
The exposure in the former case may be regarded as a sample of that which , in the course of many generations , has ( it is supposed ) occasioned the condensation of leaf-order .
It is here contended that the force of gravity ( to which the two-ranked leaf-order of lateral twigs is referred by some authors ) could not have been equally the cause of the phenomena seen in the inclined lateral shoot of Spanish chestnut and in the upright Aloe serra : but the phenomena in the two cases are the same , and admit of a common explanation by the condensation theory , if we regard the basal portion 1874 .
] Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement , ' 303 of the shoot as retaining the ancient order , and the more exposed terminal portion as having undergone protective modification .
The various degrees of obliquity of spiral ranks in the alternate orders of leaf-arrangement , and the complicated numerical relations existing between those various ranks , are all fully accounted for by the condensation theory .
Analyzing the spiral arrangement seen in a sunflower-head , a dandelion-head , a house-leek rosette , and an apple-twig , the result is found to be that any leaf ( or fruit , in the first twTo instances ) , taken as zero , has for next neighbours successively , in rising steps of complexity of order , the 1st , 2nd , 3rd , 5th , 8th , 13th , 21st , 34th , 55th , 89th , 144th , \amp ; c. ( in order of growth ) alternately on the right side and on the left , producing alternately right-and left-handed spirals in sets of 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 21 , 34 , 55 , 89 , 144 , \amp ; c. ; and these numbers are identical with those which would result from condensation of one of the lower orders of series A. Similar considerations apply to series B and C. It is a significant relation that , in the sunflower and similar examples , the arrangement of the fruits in the composite head is such as would result from condensation of the arrangement of the leaves on the stem . .
Among the whorled orders also there is equally strong evidence of the working of the same force of condensation .
First there is a series ( a ) derivable from the crucial arrangement .
( This is shown by diagrams .
) In the orders thus formed it is seen that conspicuous sets of parallel spirals will form the most striking feature , and that these spirals will be found in sets of 2 , 4 , 6 , 10 , 16 , 26 , 42 , \amp ; c. ( series a ) .
Instances are seen in the genera Meand and the order Dipsacacece , in which last the whole series a finds exemplification .
Here also it is a significant relation that the fruit-order in the composite heads of Dipscccacece is such as would result from condensation of the crucial order of their stem-leaves .
Some of these plants exhibit in their radical leaves a minor degree of the same condensation .
In like manner it is shown that condensation of whorls of three would produce orders with spirals in sets of 3 , 6 , 9 , 15 , 24 , 39 , 63 , \amp ; c. ( series / 3 ) .
For examples see Hofmeister , o_p .
p. 460 .
Condensation ( if any ) of whorls of four would give spirals iu sets of 4 , 8 , 12 , 20 , 32 , \amp ; c. ( series y ) .
It is contended that the preceding evidence , drawn from both divisions of leaf-arrangement ( alternate and whorled ) , is sufficient to establish the principle of condensation as having played an important part in the history of leaf-arrangement .
304 Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Apr. 30 , But there are phenomena in leaf-arrangement which are not explained by condensation .
We have still to account for ( 1 ) the origin of alternate orders with 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 9 , \amp ; c. vertical ranks ; and ( 2 ) the origin of the different whorled orders , with whorls of two , three , four , five , \amp ; c. ( with 4 , 6 , 8,10 , Ac .
vertical ranks ) .
The whole course of condensation depended on obliquity of ranks ; but the distinguishing feature in these cases is that the ranks are exactly or almost exactly vertical .
All these cases are explained on the hypothesis that there has been in the vegetable kingdom a variability ( per s ) in the number of leaf-ranks ; that a plant originally having two vertical ranks has , by a stroke of variation , produced shoots or seedlings with three vertical ranks ; that three have varied to four , four to five , five to six , and so on ; and that these " sports " have survived in some cases because of some advantage which they enjoyed ( probably the same advantage as that gained by condensation\#151 ; the accommodation of the same number of leaves in a shorter bud ) .
This hypothesis is supported by the variability which is found at the present day in the number of leaf-ranks in one and the same species .
Eor instance , Sedum sexangulareexhibits seven nearly vertical ranks in order mally four exactly vertical ranks in whorls of two , but may be found with five nearly vertical ranks in order 2 , or with exactly vertical in whorls of three .
( These three varieties may be found on shoots growing from the same stump .
) Whorls of three are often produced by plants usually bearing whorls of two ( e. g. sycamore , lilac , laurustinus , maple , horse-chestnut , elder , ash , \amp ; c. ) , and whorls of four instead of three are seen in some species of Sedum and Verbena .
Among these forms it does not seem possible that one could be produced from another by accumulative modification .
Professor Beal has found well-marked variation in the cones of larch , spruce , \amp ; c. , the majority belonging to series A , but a considerable minority to series B or series a. In dandelion-heads about 5 per cent , belong to series a. Different species of the same genus ( e. g. Aloe verrucosa and , Haworthia viscosa and pentagona , and different species of and Cactus ) often exhibit differences of leaf-order which can hardly be understood but as resulting from direct variation in number of leaf-ranks .
This hypothesis is also supported by analogy drawn from the animal kingdom .
Among starfishes there is variability in the number of rays : Asterias rubenshas sometimes four or six instead of five ; A. has from twelve to fifteen .
Among mammals there is some variability in the number of digits .
1874 .
] Dr. H. Airy on Lea .
Supposing , then , that , by strokes of variation , forms have been produced with ( 2 ) 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , \amp ; c. vertical leaf-ranks , it is next to be considered how the arrangement of the leaves in each form would be affected by the demands of economy of space and mutual accommodation of ranks , supposing the ranks to be similar in point of size and number of leaves .
Two vertical ranks would gain lateral accommodation by taking alternate order i. Under vertical condensation , with twist in either direction , they would give rise to the successive orders of series A. ( Two ranks are found in uneconomical opposite order in the genus Mesembry-anihemum .
This arrangement would be prone to fall into crucial order under vertical compression .
) Three vertical ranks would , with least surrender of lateral accommodation , assume alternate order | ( illustrated by diagram ) .
A slight twist in one direction ( No. 3 towards No. 1 ) would allow perfect lateral accommodation .
In three-ranked plants ( e. g. Carex and such twist is usually found .
Vertical condensation operating on three ranks possessing this obliquity would produce subsequent orders of series A. If the obliquity were in the opposite direction ( No. 3 towards No. 2 ) , condensation would produce successive orders of series 13 .
Four vertical ranks wrould economically fall into crucial order , the members of each rank fitting into the intervals between those of its neighbours .
Opposite members therefore would stand at the same height , and wrould occupy one and the same node ; they would also divide the circumference equally , and would stand over the intervals of the next lower pair .
This crucial order under vertical condensation would produce series a. In rare cases four ranks might assume an alternate order Vertical condensation of this order | with twist ( No. 4 towards No. 1 ) would produce series B ; with opposite twist ( No. 4 towards No. 3 ) it would produce series C. Five vertical ranks would , with least surrender of lateral accommodation , assume alternate order ? .
A slight obliquity ( No. 5 towards No. 2 ) , such as is usually found in nature , would allow perfect lateral accommodation .
Condensation would then produce further orders of series A. With opposite obliquity ( No. 5 towards No. 3 ) a new series \5 ' 7 ' 12 ' 19 ' ^c ' ) wou^ be produced .
Five ranks might also take alternate order which , condensed , would give with one twist series C , .
1 1 2 3 with the other a new series \amp ; c. Six vertical ranks would economically fall into whorls of three , the members of each whorl dividing the circumference equally , and standing over the intervals of the next lower whorl .
Condensation would give 308 Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Apr. 30 , series / 3 .
If six ranks should fall into alternate order one obli-quity would lead to a series - , _ , \amp ; c. , the opposite to a series 1 2 3 6 ' IT 17 ' \amp ; c. Seven vertical ranks would take alternate order facilitated by obliquity .
Condensation would give series B. ( It is needless to follow other possible hues of condensation .
) Eight vertical ranks would fall into whorls of four , with the same general characters noted above in whorls of two and three .
Condensation would give series y. 2 t Nine would give - .
Condensation would produce series C. Ten would give whorls of five .
Eleven would give \#151 ; .
Twelve would give whorls of six .
Thirteen would give ^ ; and so on .
Thus it appears that the whorled orders would naturally arise from economic arrangement of even numbers ( except 2 ) , and the alternate orders from economic arrangement of odd numbers ( including also 2 ) , of vertical ranks .
It also appears that , in the whorled division , the members of each whorl will divide the circumference of the stem equally , and that successive whorls will alternate in angular position .
It has already been shown that in the alternate division the spiral arrangement of the leaves , with angular divergence limited to certain series of fractional values ( A , B , C , \amp ; c. ) , would follow on the hypothesis of condensation .
These are the " main facts of leaf-arrangement set down on page 298 to be accounted for .
It is possible that all the varieties of leaf-order at present existing may have been derived from an original two-ranked arrangement , partly by variation in the number of leaf-ranks , and partly by vertical condensation of the orders so formed .
This view is supported by ( 1 ) the high probability that the simplest form has been the earliest ; ( 2 ) the prevalence of the two-ranked form among lower phanerogamous plants ( e. g. Gramin ; ( 3 ) the numerous instances of transition from a two-ranked order at the base of a shoot to a more complex order in the higher parts ; ( 4 ) the prevalence of the two-ranked arrangement of rootlets on 1874 .
] Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
roots , taken in connexion with their probable homology with lateral shoots ( the three ranks of rootlets in Polygonaceai , and the four in carrot and parsnep , illustrate variability in number of ranks ) ; ( 5 ) the two-ranked arrangement of leaves in the seeds of Mono-cotyledonous plants , as compared with the more condensed ( though probably at first two-ranked ) order in the more highly developed Dicotyledonous embryo .
Summary.\#151 ; The author is led to suppose :\#151 ; I. That the original form of leaf-arrangement was two-ranked .
II .
That this original two-ranked form gave rise to forms with 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , \amp ; c. ranks , by " sporting , " as opposed to any process of accumulative modification .
III .
That of the orders so formed those with an even number of ranks ( except 2 ) have , as a rule , assumed a whorled arrangement , and those with two or an odd number of ranks have assumed an alternate arrangement , under the need of lateral accommodation of ranks in the bud ( taken as type of close-packed forms ) .
IV .
That all these orders have been subject to vertical condensation , under the need of vertical economy of space in the bud ( taken as type of close-packed forms ) .
V. ( a ) That such condensation , operating on a 2-ranked , or 3-ranked , or 5-ranked alternate order has produced subsequent orders of series * ( l 1 2 3 5 8 13 21 34 55 \#171 ; \ tiers or senes A 3 , g , g , w gj , gg , \amp ; c.j. ( 6 ) That condensation of a 7-ranked yh or rarely of a 3- or 4-ranked ( S ' i ) a^erna^e orc^er has produced subsequent orders of series B ( l 1 \3* 4 4 ' 7 ' IP 18 ' \amp ; c.\ .
( c ) That condensation of a 9-ranked ^ or rarely of a 4- or 5-ranked 0 alternate order has produced subsequent orders of series C ( | .
1-11* A- *\#166 ; ) .
: ( d ) That condensation of a 4-ranked whorled order ( whorls of two ) has produced successive orders of series a , with spirals in sets of 4 , 6 10 , 16 , ' 26 , 42 , \amp ; c. ( e ) That condensation of a 6-ranked whorled order ( whorls of three ) has produced successive orders of series ( 3 , with spirals in sets of 6 , 9 , 15 , 24 , 39 , Ac .
( / ) That condensation ( if any ) of an 8-ranked whorled order ( whorls of four ) would produce successive orders of series y , with spirals in sets of 8,12,20,32 , \amp ; c. Higher numbers of ranks would lead to higher series .

