I. Part of a Letter from the Reverend Mr Abraham de la Pryme F. R. S. to the Publisher , concerning a Spout lately observed by him in Hatfield .
Thorn .
June the 26th .
It is sometime ago that I sent you an account of a Spout , that my self and many others saw in Hatfield Parish in 1685 , with some few conjectures upon the Cause of it .
Since that time I have been so happy as to see another in the same place , which very much confirms me in my notion of the Origin and Nature of them .
The Weather here in this part of the Country , hath been exceeding wet and cool , insomuch that it seemed rather to be Spring than Midsummer , yet for all that Monday the 21st ditto was pretty warm , on the afternoon of which day , about 2 of the Clock , no Wind stirring below , tho ' it was somewhat great in the Air , the Clouds begun to be mightily agitated and driven together ; whereupon they became very black and were ( most visibly ) hurried round , from whence proceeded a most audible whirling noise , like that commonly heard in a Mill .
After a while a long Tube or Spout came down from the Center of the congregated Clouds , in which was a swift spiral motion like that of a Screw , or the Goehlea Archimedis when it is in motion , by which Spiral Nature and swift turning , Water ascends upin to the one as well as into the other .
It travelled slowly from West to North East , broke down a great Oak-tree or two , frighted the Weeders out of the Field , and made others lie down flat upon their Bellies , to save being whirled about and killed by it , as they saw many Jackdaws to be that were suddenly catched up , carried out of sight , and then cast a great way of amongst the Corn ; at last it passed over the Town of Hatfield , to the great terror of the Inhabitants , filling the whole Air with the Thatch that it plucked off from some of the Houses ; then touching upon a corner of the Church , it tore up several Sheets of Lead , and rolled them strangely together , soon after which , it dissolved and vanished without doing any further Mischief .
There was nothing more extraordinary in this , than in the other that I gave you a former account of , and by all the observations that I could make of both of them , I found that had they been at Sea , and joined to the surface thereof , they would have carried a vast quantity of Water up into the Clouds , and the Tubes would then have become much more strong and opake than they were , and have continued much longer .
It is commonly said that at Sea the Water collects and bubbles up a foot or two high under these Spouts before that they be joined : But the mistake lies in the pellucidity and fineness of those Pipes , which do most certainly touch the surface of the Sea before that any considerable motion be made in it , and that when the Pipe begins to fill with Water it then becomes opake and visible .
As for the reason of their dissolving of themselves after that they have drunk up a great quantity of Water , I take it to be by and through the great quantity of the Water that they have carried up , which must needs thicken the Clouds , and impeade their motion , and by that means dissolve the Pipes .

