1881 .
] On the 48 Co-ordinates of a Cubic Curve in Space .
301 January 13 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Hon. Sir George Jessel , Master of the Rolls , was admitted into the Society .
The Right Hon. William Ewart Gladstone , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the 48 Co-ordinates of a Cubic Curve in Space .
" By William Spottiswoode , President R.S. Received December 29 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) In a note published in the Report of the British Association for 1878 ( Dublin ) , and in a fuller paper in the " Transactions of the London Mathematical Society , " 1879 ( vol. x , No. 152 ) , I have given the forms of the eighteen , or the twenty-one ( as there explained ) , co-ordinates of a conic in space , corresponding , so far as correspondence subsists , with the six co-ordinates of a straight line m space .
And in the same papers I have established the identical relations between these co-ordinates , whereby the number of independent quantities is reduced to eight , as it should be .
In both cases , viz. , the straight line and the cubic , the co-ordinates are to be obtained by eliminating the variables in turn from the two equations representing the line or the conic , and are , in fact , the coefficients of the equations resulting from the eliminations .
In the present paper I have followed the same procedure for the case of a cubic curve in space .
Such a curve may , as is well known , be regarded as the intersection of two quadric surfaces having a generating line in common ; and the result of the elimination of any one of the variables from two quadric equations satisfying this condition is of the third degree .
The number of coefficients so arising is 4 x 10=40 ; but I have found that these forty quantities may very conveniently be replaced by forty-eight others , which are henceforward considered as the co-ordinates of the cubic curve in space .
The relation between the forty and the forty-eight co-ordinates is as follows : \#151 ; Prof. F. Holmgren .
[ Jan. 13 , On examining the equations resulting from the eliminations of thj variables , it turns out that they can be rationally transformed intoe ?
pressions such as UP'-U'P=0 , where U and U ' are quadrics , and P and P linear functions of the variables remaining after the eliminations The forty-eight co-ordinates then consist of the twenty-four coeffi cients of the four functions of the form U ( say the U-co-ordinates)* together with the twenty-four coefficients of the functions of the form U ' ( say the U'-co-ordinates ) , arising from the four eliminations respec tively : viz. , 4x6 + 4x6=48 .
And it will be found that the co efficients of the forms P , P ' , are already comprised among those of IJ , U ' ; so that they do not add to the previous total of forty-eight .
The number of identical relations established in the present paper is thirty-four .
But it will be observed that the equations UP'\#151 ; U'P=0 are lineo-linear in the U-co-ordinates and in the U'-co-ordinates ; and as we are concerned with the ratios only of the coefficients , and not with their absolute values , we are , in fact , concerned only with the ratios of the U-co-ordinates inter se , and of the U'-co-ordinates inter se , and not with their absolute values .
Hence the number of independent co-ordinates will be reduced to 48\#151 ; 34\#151 ; 2=12 , as it should be .
The thirty-four identical relations arrange themselves firstly in two \#171 ; ets : one set belonging wholly or principally to the U-co-ordinates , and the other set wholly or principally to the U'-co-ordinates .
In each set there are four groups : one of four , one of eight , one single , and again one of four equations ; seventeen in all .
In the course of the paper , the two groups of eight are obtained in two forms : first , by a purely algebraical method in a rational form ; and secondly by a method partly geometrical and partly algebraical , in an irrational form .
II .
" How do the Colour-blind See the different Colours ?
Introductory Remarks .
" By Frithiof Holmgren , Professor of Physiology , University , Upsala .
Communicated by W. Pole , Mus. Doc .
, F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1880 .
That the colour-blind do not see colours in the same way with normal-eyed persons we may know from the fact that they confuse rays of objective light which , to the normal eye , give quite different impressions .
When , for instance , a red-blind person is confused in his perception of those different sorts of light that to the normal eye appear as red and green , we may conclude that he sees them both as one and the same colour , but not what that colour is , as to its quality\#151 ; whether it is one of those just mentioned or a third\#151 ; and whether , on the latter Supposition , that colour exists in the colour-system of normal-eyed

