Formation of Alkaline and Earthy Bodies , with reference to their presence in Plants , the Influence of Carbonic Acid in their genera ?
tion , and the equilibrium of this gas in the atmosphere .
" By Ro ?
bert Rigg , Esq. Communicated by the Rev. J. B. Read , M , A. , F.R.S. The object of the author , in the present memoir , is to show that the solid materials which compose the residual matter in the analy ?
sis of vegetable substances , and which consist of alkaline and earthy bodies , are actually formed during the process of fermentation , when ?
there that process be excited artificially , by the addition of a small quantity of yeast to fermentable mixtures , or take place naturally in the course of vegetation , or of spontaneous decomposition .
His experiments also tend to show that this formation of alkaline and earthy bodies is always preceded by the absorption of carbonic acid , whether that acid be naturally formed or artificially supplied .
He finds , also , that different kinds of garden mould , some being calca ?
reous , others siliceous , and others aluminous , exposed in retorts to atmospheres consisting of a mixture of carbonic acid gas and com ?
mon air , absorb large quantities of the former , combining with it in such a manner as not to afford any traces of this carbonic acid being disengaged by the action of other acids .
He considers the result of this combination to be the formation of an alkaline body , and also of a colouring matter .
This combination takes place to a greater extent during the night than during the day ; and in general , the absorption of carbonic acid by the soil is greatest in proportion as it is more abundantly produced by the processes of vege ?
tation ; and conversely , it is least at the time when plants decom ?
pose this gas , appropriating its basis to the purposes of their own system .
Hence he conceives that there is established in nature a remarkable compensating provision , which regulates the quantity of carbonic acid in the atmosphere , and renders its proportion constant .

