230 On the Resemblances existing between the " Plimmer 's " Malignant Growths , and Certain Normal Constituents of Reproductive Cells of Animals .
By J. Bretland Earmer , F.R.S. , J. E. S. Moore , and C. E. Walker .
( Received April 11 , \#151 ; Read May 11 , 1905 .
) It is proposed in the present communication to present the results of investigations bearing on the nature of those remarkable structures known as " Plimmer 's Bodies."* As is well known , these are found in many cancerous growths , and are most commonly encountered in the younger or growing regions of the tumour .
They appear in the form of vesicles , and they consist essentially of a fairly well-defined wall containing a clear space in which is suspended Fig. 3 .
Figs. 1 , 2 , 3 .
Examples of Plimmer 's Bodies from carcinoma .
1 .
Three small Bodies in an archoplasm .
2 and 3 .
Later stages in the development of the " Bodies .
" a small darkly staining granule ( figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
They are most commonly to be met with in tumours of a glandular or glandular-epithelial origin.f * Plimmer , * Practitioner , ' vol. 62 .
+ Greenough , ' 3rd Rep. Caroline Brewer Croft Cancer Com. , ' Harvard Med. School , 1905 .
On " Plimmers Bodies " and Reproductive Cells .
231 ' They lie in the cytoplasm of the cancer cell , and usually in close proximity " to the nucleus .
In size , they vary from excessive minuteness to that of the-nucleus itself .
The special interest attaching to them depends on the fact that they have commonly been regarded as peculiar to cancerous cells , although Honda* believes he has occasionally also encountered them in inflammatory tissues. .
They have been variously interpreted .
Some investigators have regarded them as parasitic organisms , more or less intimately connected .
with the etiology of the disease , whilst others have seen in them a differentiation of the cytoplasm of the cancerous cell itself .
It has been suggested also that they might be derived from the centrosomes within the archoplasm , f but the observations of BendaJ that centrosomes coexisted independently of them iu .
the cell , has rightly been held to disprove this hypothesis .
Our own investigations indicate , however , that there are good grounds for-reconsidering the whole position , and a comparison of the processes that normally obtain during the final stages of development of the reproductive elements in man and the other mammalia , appear to us strongly to suggest that a parallel between the Plimmer Bodies of cancer and certain vesicular-structures occurring regularly in the gametogenic , but not in the ordinary somatic , cells , may he found to hold good .
It was shown by one of us , S in 1895 , that during the prophase of the heterotype ( first maiotic ) mitosis of the spermatogenetic cells , the archoplasm undergoes a highly characteristic and peculiar metamorphosis .
In normal somatic , or premaiotic , cells the archoplasm is seen to lie beside the nucleus as a dusky mass of protoplasm in which are contained the centrosomes. .
That is , the attraction sphere consists of the archoplasm plus the centrosomes . .
But during the prophase of the heterotype mitosis these constituents become separated .
The centrosomes are found to lie outside of and detached from the archoplasm ( fig. 4 ) .
At the same time the archoplasm itself undergoes a change .
It becomes vesiculated , and finally , at the close of this cell generation , it is lost in the general cytoplasm of the daughter cells .
In the prophase of the second maiotic division ( homotype ) the same phenomena recur .
When the ho.motype mitosis is over , the constituents of * Honda , 'Virchow 's Archiv , ' vol. 174 .
+ Borrel , 'An .
Inst. Past .
, ' vol. 15 .
This author was on the right track in attributing-importance to the arehoplasm , but the erroneous interpretation placed on the centrosomes precluded his arriving at a satisfactory conclusion as to the nature of the bodies under-discussion .
' X Benda , * Verh .
deutsch .
Gesellsch .
f. Chir .
, ' 1902 .
S Moore , 'Internat .
Monatschr .
f. Anat .
v. Physiologie , ' vol. 11 .
.232 Prof. Farmer , Messrs. Moore and Walker .
[ Apr. U } | the sphere , or at least some of them , enter into direct relation with parts of j the spermatozoon which arises by further differentiation of the cell .
As regards the archoplasm , with which we are more directly concerned , it is again seen to contain a number of minute vesicles which continue as before to grow in size , whilst each contains a single refractive and stainable granule -/ figs. 4 , 5 ) .
Subsequently , several of these vesicles fuse together , so that at a later stage in the metamorphosis of the cell into a spermatozoon there only Fig. 4 .
Archoplasm with centrosomes lying outside it in prophase of the first maiotic -division in testis of mouse .
Fig. 5 .
Spermatid of mouse , showing origin of vesicles in the archoplasm .
remains a single large clear body , bounded by a distinct membrane , containing in the centre one or more darkly staining granules ( figs. 6 , 7 , 8 ) .
This body , originally described by one of us in 1895 as the archoplasmic vesicle , is a very conspicuous and apparently constant feature peculiar to the jspermatogenetic cells of , at any rate , the vertebrata , and it has since been .encountered beyond that group by other observers .
When fully developed it often assumes a size approximating to that of the nucleus .
Indeed , the latter is often deformed and made to assume a -crescentic or cuplike shape owing to the enlargement of the adjacent archoi 1905 .
] On " Plimmer 's Bodies " and Reproductive Cells .
plasmic vesicle .
The vesicle and its contents ultimately forms the so-called ji " cephalic cap " of the spermatozoon .
The remarkable similarity between the structure just described and those known as Plimmer 's Bodies will have become obvious .
It is not , perhaps , Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
1 m Fig. 9 .
Fig. 8 .
Figs. 6 and 7 .
Later stages of fig. 5 .
Fig. 8 .
Slightly later stage in the spermatid of man , with centrosomes and tail .
Fig. 9 .
Three spermatid nuclei in a single cytoplasmic mass , showing three archo-plasmic vesicles in the centre , with two pairs of centrosomes , and a third , less defined , to the left hand .
accidental that just as in the case of nuclear divisions , so also in the cellular inclusions , a parallelism between the cells of reproductive tissues and of cancer cells should be found to exist .
But we do not on this account regard the cells of cancer as identical with those of the sexual cells , as we were careful to point out in our first communication in 1903 .
VOL. lxxvi.\#151 ; b. E On " Plimmer 's Bodies " and .
Reproductive Cells .
But the resemblances between what we have termed gametoid , and the true gametogenic cells now seem to be even more significant than they appeared to be at that time .
Both classes of cells are autonomous to a very high degree , and both possess the faculty of continuous or intermittent multiplication independently of the tissue requirements of the organism .
And finally both exhibit cellular and nuclear metamorphoses which not only , mutatis mutandis , resemble one another , but differ materially from those pertaining to the normal somatic cells .
It is possible that the malignant elements are the outcome of a phylogenetic reversion , as was suggested by Sir William Collins , but the matter is obscured by the disturbing influences that have been operative during the actual ontogeny of the cells and tissues from which these elements have sprung .
If this be so , the connection apparent between gametoid and the true reproductive cells will acquire a still deeper significance .
But we propose to reserve the discussion of this question for another occasion .
In thanking those who have helped us with material we would mention especially Dr. Plimmer himself , who has most kindly placed preparations at our disposal .
We would further record our indebtedness to the Imperial Cancer Eesearch Fund for a grant in aid of our investigations .

