1879 .
] On the Transit of Venus .
297 spective of the position of the exciting helioes , whether both were on the magnet , both on the cores , or one on the magnet and one on a core .
From the foregoing experiments it appears clear that the more near the approach to a closed magnetic circuit , the stronger is the field of force , and the longer is retained the magnetism of the mass or masses of iron constituting the circuit .
The same rule holds good with regard to permanent magnets .
In closed circuits the attractive force is at its height , and diminishes in intensity as the magnetic field is more extended .
But the parallel goes beyond this , for the more open the magnetic field , the more rapidly is the magnetic force itself dissipated .
These principles have guided us in the construction of a dynamo-electric machine of whose magnetic circuits we here present a sketch , and which we hope to describe more fully in a future paper .
In the accompanying diagram six fixed electro-magnets are shown , having alternate poles , opposite to which , and at a very short distance , are placed three other electro-magnets so arranged with opposing poles as to form three nearly closed circuits .
Coils of wire are made to revolve so as to cross the intervals between these opposing poles , and the electric currents induced in the moving coils are made to pass round the electro-magnets .
IY .
" Further particulars of the Transit of Venus across the Sun , December 9 , 1874 ; observed on the Himalaya Mountains , Mussoorie , at Mary-Villa Station , Lat. 30 ' 28 ' N. , Long. 78 ' 3 ' E. , height above sea 6,765 feet , with the Royal Society 's 5-inch Equatoreal .
" Note III .
By J. B. N. Hennessey , F.R.S. Received October 4 , 1879 .
1 .
The object of the present note is to add to Notes I and II* some particulars of the transit not detailed*)^ !
those notes .
The latter contained only sufficient extracts from my observatory notes in connexion chiefly with the three contacts which I observed ; as , however , various other facts , besides the contacts , were developed in course of the transit , and elicited remarks from me at the time , it seems desirable that a complete transcript of these observatory notes should also be put on record ; both in connexion with what hereafter follows , and also to meet any possible future requirements of details , such as expressed by Captain Tupman in his discussion of the mean solar parallax , f * See " Proc. Roy .
Soc. .
" Vol. xxiii , pp. 254,379 .
t Royal Astronomical Society , " Monthly Notices .
" Vol. xxxyiii , p. 452 .
VOL. XXIX .
Y Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey .
Observatory Notes .
[ Nov. 20 , 1874 .
December .
Chronometer Time .
Greenwich Time .
Remarks made by Observer at the time .
d. h. d. h. 18 0 8 14 6 35 20 0 8 35 20 50 9 25 22 33 11 8 23 0 11 35 24 28 13 3 25 10 13 45 26 26 15 1 28 34 17 9 0 29 10 17 45 0 0 8 16 48 36 32 O 17 20 36 Ingress .
Beautifully clear morning .
No haze .
Eyepiece 125 .
Two coloured glasses giving a neutral or bluish field .
Missed the 1st external contact .
Venus ' edge on sun boils somewhat ; it is , however , distinctly visible .
Venus ' outer edge , i.e. , against sky , distinctly visible , because of a narrow edging , or ring of light , around some 30 ' of that part of it furthest from the sun .
The light ring now extends around the whole of that part of Venus ' edge against the sky , and is some 3 " in width ; it is brightest where furthest from the sun .
The light ring against sky is well seen , and looks undeniably like Venus ' atmosphere ; width some 4 " ; definition excellent .
The light ring against the sky can be plainly traced in continuation around Venus on the sun , where however it is made visible chiefly by the movements occurring in it of minute bright specks , and also because it boils .
The entire ring is full of these minute bright specks , which appear and disappear rapidly , dancing about with little flashes .
Definition excellent .
Light ring against sky wider .
" " quite distinct .
" " quite bright .
Transit of Venus ' dark edge across the sun 's limb , i.e. , 1st internal contact .
Transit , by estimate , of outer edge of Venus ' light ring ( that was against sky ) across the sun 's limb .
No ligament or pear-drop seen , though exjpected and carefully watched for .
Brilliantly clear sky ; light breeze from south .
Spectroscope set up , adjusted , and used .
Slit placed across Venus ' centre gave a black band all along the length of solar spectrum .
Slit placed tangential to Venus ' disk , gave a faint , narrow glimmer of light , slightly brighter than solar spectrum , instead of black band ; no displacement of solar lines in glimmer .
Egress .
Eye-piece as before , 125 .
Of the two coloured glasses used for Ingress , one 1879 .
] On the Transit of Venus .
1874 .
December .
Chronometer Time .
Greenwich Time .
d. h. m. s. d. k. m. s. 8 23 9 0 8 17 57 36 11 38 18 0 14 12 40 1 16 15 8 3 44 16 0 4 36 16 57 5 32*6 22 0 10 36 34 0 22 36 37 30 26 6 40 0 28 36 44 14 32 496 Remarks made by Observer at the Time .
Egress .
now changed for a red glass ; field now red and less lighted than at Ingress .
Definition sharp and excellent .
No boiling visible around sun 's limb ; some boiling round Venus ' lower limb and still less around upper limb .
Removed the red glass and substituted a blue one , when the boiling round Venus became quite visible .
Removed the temporary substitute and restored red glass , as before , and thus watched the further progress of the transit .
About i of Venus ' diameter from contact .
No ligament visible .
About i of Venus ' diameter from contact .
No ligament visible .
About 1 of Venus ' diameter from contact .
No ligament visible .
Less than ^ of Venus ' diameter from contact .
No ligament visible .
About ^ of Venus ' diameter from contact .
No ligament visible .
2nd internal contact .
Light ring now visible around Venus ' limb against sky .
No boiling around Venus ' or sun 's limb .
Venus ' limb against sky only faintly seen .
Light ring has been invisible for some time ; was seen for only a short time after 2nd internal contact .
2nd external contact .
No ligament visible thereafter or at any time before .
2 .
This record was obtained by means .of the following agency .
My friend , Mr. W. H. Cole , M.A. , audibly counted seconds , and named the minutes as completed , from a large chronometer , before which he was comfortably seated , say six feet from the equatoreal .
Baboo Cally Mohun Ghose , with paper and pencil , took up a position by my side ; he mentally followed Mr. Cole 's counting , and noted down the instant I made a remark , together with the words I uttered .
In the absence of remarks , the Baboo noted the number of each complete minute as it was declared , a reckoning which was checked by inspection of the chronometer and otherwise from time to time , so as to render the adoption of a wrong minute practically impossible .
Thus all that remained for me to do was to look intently through the telescope of the equatoreal and declare exactly what I beheld .
We three individuals were all enclosed within the canvas walling of an observatory tent t 2 300 Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey .
[ Nov. 20 , only eight feet square , the top of the tent being removed , No sound broke the enforced stillness that prevailed ; the sky was brilliantly clear , and all cause for anxiety , as to clouding over , or the driving of the equatoreal , or on any other account , was completely absent ; while the events in question were plainly seen to progress so gradually and deliberately that there was not the smallest occasion for hurry or confusion of any kind , nor did any occur .
Unlike a solar eclipse , when , every second is of the utmost importance , there was plenty of time for every purpose .
Under these circumstances , I repeat , it was practically impossible that any blunder in recording could be committed .
3 .
Subsequently , when Colonel J. F. Tennant , F.R.S. , was reducing his observations , taken at Roorkee , he wrote to me , * pointing out that there was apparently a blunder of three minutes in the recorded time of my first internal contact .
I was well aware of this anomaly , and had previously alluded to it in Burlington House , when taking part in the discussion that followed the reading of my Notes I and II before the Royal Society in 1875 ; so that with the full knowledge I possessed of all the facts of observations , I found it out of my power to adopt Colonel Tennant 's very natural suggestion , that the three minutes in question were due to a blunder in recording .
4 .
It appears desirable to add a few words as to this anomaly .
If due to a record-blunder , then , it will be seen from the observatory notes preceding , the identical three minutes ' blunder must have been repeated in no less than eight independent preceding times recorded ; and this notwithstanding that , from our contiguity of position , both Baboo Cally Mohun Grhose and myself availed ourselves of ample opportunity to check Mr. Cole 's declarations of complete minutes ; a conclusion which amounts to assuming practically that three individuals independently concurred in the erroneous records of nine different times , which were equally wrong by three minutes .
This is by no means probable .
5 .
If , on the other hand , the anomaly be ascribed to blunder on my part in visible recognition of the contact , or briefly to contact-blunder , the following evidence in my favour may be adduced by comparing my intervals of contact with those observed by my friend the ( late ) Rev. H. D. James , M.A. , who was stationed only nineteen miles from me to the north-west , t * See also his Report to Government , p. 41 .
1877 .
t At Chakatra , lat. N. 30 ' 43 ' , long .
E. 77 ' 54 ' , height 7,300 feet above sea " Proc. Roy .
Soc. " Vol. xxiii , pp. 381-384 .
) 1879 .
] On the Transit of Venus .
Contact .
Hennessey .
J ames .
Time .
Interval from 1st .
Time .
ft ii Interval from 1st .
1st Internal. .
h. m. s. 14 17 9 h. m. s. h. m. s. 7 41 20 h. m. s. 2nd " 18 5 33 3 48 24 11 30 15 3 48 36* 2nd External 18 32 50 4 15 41 11 57 25 4 15 44* Mr. James was not in a position to obtain absolute time with any great accuracy , but this does not vitiate his intervals .
There is every reason to accept these as accurate , for Mr. James was quite familiar with the telescope , which was his own property , and was accustomed to study celestial objects .
The accordance of these intervals ( by 12 seconds and 3 seconds ) is sufficient proof , apart from needless reduction , that if a contact-blunder of three minutes was committed in my first time , about the same occurred in Mr. James 's .
This , as a blunder , is , to say the least , highly improbable .
6 .
I think , therefore , it may be claimed for both Mr. James and myself that neither of us committed ' any blunder , as such , whether of record or contact .
On the other hand , I confess my inability , at present , to account for the anomaly .
7 .
Turning briefly to the preceding observatory notes , it will be seen that , for purposes of emphasizing the visible absence of the expected ligament , I roughly estimated the intervals from 2nd internal contact ( when the ligament was intently looked for ) on five occasions in terms of Venus ' diameter ; thus , ^th to -^th diameter .
If , for purposes of very rough comparison , we contrast these roughly estimated fractional diameter-intervals , with corresponding fractions of the observed interval between 2nd internal and 2nd external contacts , there result as errors in the former : Error of \#163 ; th diameter +68 seconds .
99 99 % +46 " 99 .Jtll + 52 " \#187 ; 9 iV^h .
99 -27 " 99 9 9 -26 " which is confirmatory to some extent of the absence of gross error the times of these two contacts .
Mr. James 's letters to me in original is attached .
in Excerpt from Mr. H. D. James 's letter , above referred to .
" Chakatra , N.W.P. , December 9 , 1874 .
" Through your kindness in sending me a diagram of the planet 's * Intervals corrected for watch rate , giving " perhaps a minute in 12 hours .
302 On the Transit of Venus .
[ Nov. 20 , progress across the sun 's disk I had as satisfactory a view of it as was possible .
My son was with me .
At 6.56 we noticed the sunlight on the snowy range .
Ten minutes and twelve seconds after that we saw the rim of the sun rising above the mountain which intervened between us and the horizon .
We kept an eye on Mussoorie and Landour , and thought they had but two minutes ' advance of us in seeing the sun .
Eighteen minutes and ten seconds after our first glimpse of the sunlight , Yenus began nibbling at the rim of the sun . ?
Between this and her entire entrance on to the disk was twenty-seven minutes and ten seconds ; that is , we saw her external contact at ?
7 ' 14 ' 10 " , and her internal contact at 7 ' 41 ' 20 " .
When she was ; about half way on , we both noticed a fringe of white light illuminat- ' ing that rim of the planet which was yet on the dark sky .
When she went off , we noticed the same fringe of light , but for a much shorter time , and when only about one-eighth of her had passed the sun 's disk .
The internal contact for departure took place at 11 ' 30 ' 15 " , and the external at 11 ' 57 ' 25 " , as near as it was possible to say , for there was a sort of flickering , which rendered it difficult to fix on the precise moment of contact .
\#171 ; The spots on the sun were but insignificant , in magnitude about the same as yesterday , though in position very different .
"

