IV .
" On a New Arrangement of Binocular Spectrum-Microscope .
" By WILLIAM CROOKES , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 23 , 1869 .
The spectrum-microscope , as usually made , possesses several disadvantages : it is only adapted for one eyet ; the prisms having to be introduced over the eyepiece renders it necessary to remove the eye from the instrument , and alter the adjustment , before passing from the ordinary view of an object to that of its spectrum , and vice versed ; the field of view is limited , and the dispersion comparatively small .
I have devised , and for some time past have been working with , an instrument in which the above objections are obviated , although at the same time certain minor advantages possessed by the ordinary instrument , such as convenience of examining the light reflected from an object , and comparing its spectrum with a standard spectrum , are not so readily associated with the present form of arrangement .
The new spectrum-apparatus consists of two parts , which are readily attached to an ordinary single or binocular microscope ; and when attached they can be thrown in or out of adjustment by a touch of the finger , and may readily be used in conjunction with the polariscope or dichrooscope ; object-glasses of high or low power can be used , although the appearances are more striking with a power of 4-inch focus or longer ; and an object as small as a single corpuscle of bloodcan be examined audits spectrum observed .
* This may seem a very large rise of temperature ; but it is quite in accordance with the views of Sir John Herschel on the subject ( Outlines of Astronomy , section 432 and preceding sections ) , where he says that , in consequence of the long period of rotation of the moon on its axis , and still more the absence of an atmosphere , " The climate of the moon must be most extraordinary , the alternation being that of unmitigated and burning sunshine , fiercer than that of an equatoreal noon ; and the keenest severity of frost , far exceeding that of our polar winters , for an equal time .
" And again , " ... .
the surface of the full moon exposed to us must necessarily be very much heated , possibly to a degree much exceeding that of boiling water .
" t Mr. Sorby in several of his papers ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1867 , xv .
p. 433 ; ' How to Work with the Microscope , ' by L. Beale , F.R.S. , 4th edition , p. 219 ) refers to a binocular spectrum-microscope ; but he gives no description of it , and in one part says that it is not suited for the examination of any substance less than ?
$ of an inch in diameter .
The two additions to the microscope consist of the substage with slit &amp;c. , and the prisms in their box .
The substage is of the ordinary construction , with screw adjustment for centring , and rackwork for bringing it nearer to or withdrawing it from the stage .
Its general appearance is shown in fig. 1 , which represents it in position .
AB is a plate of brass , Fig. 1 .
sliding in grooves attached to the lower part of the substage ; it carries an adjustable slit , C , a circular aperture , D , 0-6 inch in diameter , and an aperture , 0 , inch square .
A spring top enables either the slit or one of the apertures to be brought into the centre of the field without moving the eye from the eyepiece .
Screw adjustments enable the slit to be widened or narrowed at will , and also varied in length .
At the upper part of the substage is a screw of the standard size , into which an object-glass of high power is fitted .
E represents one in position .
I generally prefer a --inch power ; but it may sometimes be found advisable to use other powers here .
The slit C and the object glass E are about 2 inches apart ; and if light is reflected by means of the mirror along the axis of the instrument , it is evident that the object-glass E will form a small image of the slit C , about 0'3 inch in front of it .
The milled head F moves the whole substage up or down the axis of the microscope , whilst the screws G and H , at right angles to each other , will bring the image of the slit into any desired part of the field .
If the slide AB is pushed in so as to bring the circular aperture D in the centre , the substage arrangement then becomes similar to the old form of achromatic condenser .
Beneath the slit C is an arrangement for holding an object , in case its surface is too irregular , or substance too dense , to enable its spectrum to be properly viewed in the ordinary way* .
Supposing an object is on the upper stage of the microscope ( shown in fig. 2 ) and viewed by light transmitted from the mirror through the large aperture D and the condenser E , by pushing in the slide AB so as to bring the slit C into the field , and then turning the milled head F , it is evident that a luminous image of the slit C can be projected on to the object ; and by proper adjustment of the focus , the object and the slit can be seen together equally sharp .
Also , since the whole of the light which illuminated the object has been cut off , except that portion which passes through the slit , all that is now visible in the instrument is a narrow luminous line , in which is to be seen just so much of the object as falls within the space this line covers .
By altering the slit-adjustments the length or width of the luminous line can be varied , whilst by means of the rackwork attached to the upper stage , any part of the object may be superposed on the luminous line .
The stage is supplied with a concentric movement , which permits the object to be rotated whilst in the field of view , so as to allow the image of the slit to fall on it in any direction .
During this examination a touch with the finger will at any time bring the square aperture 0 , or the circular aperture D into the field , instead of the slit , so as to enable the observer to see the whole of the object ; and in the same manner the slit can as easily be again brought into the field .
The other essential part of this spectrum-microscope consists of the prisms .
These are enclosed in a box , shown at K ( fig. 2 ) .
The prisms are of the direct-vision kind , consisting of three flint and two crown , and are altogether 16 inch long .
The box screws into the end of the microscope-body at the place usually occupied by the object-glass ; and the object-glass is attached by a screw in front of the prism-box .
It is shown in its place at L. The prism-box is sufficiently wide to admit of the prisms being pushed to the side when not wanted , so as to allow the light , after passing through the object-glass , to pass freely up the tube K. A pin at M enables the prisms to be thrown either in or out of action by a movement of the finger .
As the prisms are close above the object-glass , the usual sliding box , carrying the binocular prism and the Nicol 's prism ( shown at N ) , may be employed as usual , and the spectrum of any substance may thus be examined by both eyes simultaneously , either by ordinary light , or when it is under the influence of polarized light .
The insertion of the prism-box between the object-glass and the body of the microscope does not interfere with the working of the instrument in the ordinary manner .
The length of the tube is increased 1 or 2 inches , and a little additional rackwork may in some instruments be necessary when using object-glasses of low power .
The stereoscopic effect when the Wenham prism is put into action does not appear to be interfered with .
Fig. 2 .
For ordinary work both these additions may be kept attached to the microscope , the prisms being pushed to the side of the prism-box , and the large aperture D being brought into the centre of the substage .
When it is desired to examine the spectrum of any portion of an object in the field of view , all that is necessary is to push the slit into adjustment with one hand , and the prisms with the other .
The spectrum of any object which is superposed on the image of the slit is then seen .
The small square aperture at O ( fig. 1 ) is for the examination of dichroic substances .
When this is pushed into the field , by placing a double-image prism P between AB and E , two images of the aperture are seen in juxtaposition , oppositely polarized ; and if a dichroic substance is on the stage , the differences of colour are easily seen .
When the spectrum of any substance is in the field and the double-image prism P is introduced , two spectra are seen , one above the other , oppositely polarized , and the variations in the absorption-lines , such as are shown by didymium , jargonium , &amp;c. , are at once seen .
A Nicol 's prism , Q , as polarizer , is also arranged to slip into the same position as the double-image prism , and another , R , as analyzer , above the prism-box .
The spectra of the brilliant colours exhibited by certain crystalline bodies , when seen by polarized light , can then be examined .
Many curious effects are then produced , a description of which I propose to make the subject of another paper .
Both the prisms P and Q are capable of rotation .
If the substance under examination is dark coloured , or the illumination is not brilliant , it is best not to divide the light by means of the Wenham prism at N , but to let the whole of it pass up the tube to one eye .
If , however , the light is good , a very great advantage is gained by throwing the Wenham prism into adjustment and using both eyes .
The appearance of the spectrum , and the power of grasping faint lines , are incomparably superior when both eyes are used ; whilst the stereoscopic effect it confers on some absorption and interference spectra ( especially those of opals ) seem to throw entirely new light on the phenomena .
No one who has worked with a stereoscopic spectrum-apparatus would willingly return to the old monocular spectroscope* .
If the illuminatitn in this instrument is taken from a white cloud or the sky , Fraunhofer 's lines are beautifully visible ; and when using direct sunlight they are seen with a perfection which leaves little to be desired .
The dispersion is sufficient to cause the spectrum to fill the whole field of the microscope , instead of , as in the ordinary instrument , forming a small portion of it , the dispersion being four or five times as great ; whilst , owing to the very perfect achromatism of the optical part of the microscope , all the lines from B to G are practically in the same focus .
As tht only portion of the object examined is that part on which the image of the slit falls , and as this is very minute ( varying from 0'01 to 0'001 inch , according to the actual width of the slit ) , it is evident that the spectrum of the smallest objects can be examined .
If some blood is in the field , it is easy to reduce the size of the image of the slit to dimensions covered by one blood-disk , and then , by pushing in the prisms , to obtain its spectrum .
If the object under examination will not transmit a fair image of the slit ( if it be a rough crystal of jargoon for instance ) , it must be fixed in the universal holder beneath the slit and the light concentrated on it before it reaches the slit .
If the spectra of opaque objects are required , they can also be obtained in the same way , the light being concentrated on them either by a parabolic reflector or by other appropriate means .
By replacing the illuminating lamp by a spirit-lamp burning with a sodaflame , and pushing in the spectrum-apparatus , the yellow sodium-line is seen beautifully sharp ; and by narrowing the slit sufficiently it may even be doubled .
Upon introducing lithium or thallium compounds into the flame , the characteristic crimson or green line is obtained ; in fact so readily does this form of instrument adapt itself to the examination of flame-spectra , that for general work I have almost ceased to use a spectroscope of the ordinary form .
The only disadvantage I find is an occasional deficiency of light ; but by an improved arrangement of condensers I hope soon to overcome this difficulty .

