Upon the Development of the Enamel in certain Osseous Fish .
61 January 18 , 1900 .
The LOED LISTEE , F.E.O.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Eight Hon. Lord Justice Eomer was admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Upon the Development of the Enamel in certain Osseous Fish .
" By C. S. Tomes , F.E.S. II .
" Further Observations on 'Nitragin ' and on the Nature and Functions of the Nodules of Leguminous Plants .
" By Miss M. Dawson .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward , F.E.S. III .
" On the Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
Sixth Note .
" By Professor Sherrington , F.E.S. IV .
" On the Viscosity of Argon as affected by Temperature .
" By Lord Eayleigh , F.E.S. V. " On the Behaviour of the Becquerel .
and Eontgen Eays in a Magnetic Field .
" By the Hon. E. J. Strutt .
Communicated by Lord Eayleigh , F.E.S. VI .
" On an Experimental Investigation of the Thermo-dynamical Properties of Superheated Steam .
" By J. H. Grindley .
Communicated by Professor Osborne Eeynolds , F.E.S. " Upon the Development of the Enamel in certain Osseous Fish .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. , F.E.S. Eeceived December 4 , 1899\#151 ; Read January 18 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The author has shown in previous communications to the Eoyal Society ( which are to be found in its * Transactions ' ) that notwithstanding the fact that in all the vertebrata enamels present tolerably close resemblances in chemical , physical , and histological characters , differences far more considerable than might have been expected exist 62 Upon the Development of the Enamel in certain Osseous Fish .
in the formative processes .
The present communication seeks to establish an additional method of enamel formation , essentially differing from any which has hitherto been described , and whilst the investigation was undertaken in the hope of bridging over the gaps which exist between the methods previously known , it has only partly succeeded in doing so , as the process to be described stands somewhat alone .
The principal point which is set forth in the paper is , that the formative cells of enamel , known as ameloblasts , in all the Gadidse and in Sargus and Labrus , undergo a preliminary transformation into a reticulated stroma , which is of the full dimensions of the ultimate enamel .
During the calcification of enamel , the ameloblasts no longer exist as such , nor do any other cells take their place , but the stroma itself seems able to segregate and properly apply the lime salts required , which make their appearance at that side of the thick stroma which is most distant from the blood vessels .
There have thus been demonstrated four varieties of the process by which enamel is formed , which , although there are gaps not at present bridged over , may perhaps be taken as representing certain stages in the evolution of enamel .
These are\#151 ; 1 .
Enamels not wholly epiblastic in origin , in which the stroma which is the seat of enamel calcification is furnished by a transformation of the exterior of the mesoblastic dentine papilla , the ameloblasts apparently segregating the lime salts required for its hardening .
This is found in the Elasmobranch fishes .
2 .
Enamels wholly epiblastic in origin , in which the ameloblasts undergo a prior transformation into a stroma of the dimensions of the finished enamel , and themselves disappear .
This is the subject of the present communication , and is met with in the Gadidse , in Sargus and in Labrus , and probably in many other fish .
3 .
Enamels wholly epiblastic in origin , in which the ameloblasts retain their integrity throughout the whole process .
Their extremities are , however , produced into long fibrillar processes , which are traceable far through the calcifying enamel , and these processes are prolongations of the plasm of the cells .
This method is found in the enamel of Marsupials , and probably in all similar tubular enamels , such as are found in Hyrax and sporadically among other mammals .
4 .
Enamels wholly epiblastic in origin , in which the ameloblasts persist throughout the process of calcification .
Their free ends are produced into short processes ( Tomes 's processes ) , which penetrate but a short distance into the calcifying enamel .
This is the ordinary method found in placental mammals .
It will be seen that the last two methods differ in degree rather than in kind , but that the first two stand markedly apart .
Apparently in the Rays there is some sign of the approaching abandonment of the share taken by the dentine papilla , as there is a less On * Nitragin * and the Nature , \amp ; c. , of Nodules of Plants .
63 degree of specialisation of its outer portion , but no sign of any transformation of the ameloblasts themselves into any intermediate form of tissue has been observed .
The sudden and entire transformation of the ameloblasts in the Gadidae may perhaps be correlated with the very early and rapid formation of the enamel , which is formed while there is yet but little dentine calcified .
In enamel formation is a very much slower and more gradual process , and the dentine is always much further advanced towards completion than is the enamel .
A comparison of the various processes now known as occurring in fish , in implacental mammals , and in placental mammals may , in the author 's opinion , be taken as finally disproving the idea , which is still entertained by some , that enamel is to be regarded as a sort of secretion shed out from the ends of the ameloblasts ; for , imperfect though our knowledge remains in some respects , yet some form of conversion , direct or indirect , of a pre-existent organic matrix is common to all , though as in placental mammals it may be exceedingly small in amount , and the erroneous idea alluded to has proceeded from the study of the process exclusively in placental mammals , in whom its true nature is most difficult to decipher .
" Further Observations on * Nitragin ' and on the Nature and Functions of the Nodules of Leguminous Plants .
" By Maria Dawson , B.Sc. ( Lond. and Wales ) , 1851 Exhibition Science Research Scholar .
Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1899 , \#151 ; Read January 18 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) In December , 1898 , a paper by the author on " Nitragin , and the Nodules of Leguminous Plants , " * was read to the Royal Society .
Since that time the work on this subject has been considerably extended , and a brief summary of the additional results is given below .
Investigations have been made in the following directions :\#151 ; A. Microscopic Observations .
A comparative study of various points of interest in the anatomy of nodules borne by several genera of different tribes of the order , with special reference to the mode of growth of the nodule organisms within the tissues of the host .
* 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 192 , pp. 1\#151 ; 28 .

