78 Phenomena , SfC .
, of Heat-contraction of Skeletal Muscle .
It is known from Diodorus that the great temple-building period at Agrigentnm commenced after 480 B.C. , and further , the temple the fourth on the list was incomplete as respects its roof in 406 , and was never finished afterwards .
It was a huge temple , and the orientation date for the foundation has great architectural probability .
After a shock to its prosperity in 406 , the city partially recovered , and six years afterwards may have been able to found the small temple with which I have closed the above list .
Also the orientation date of the temple at Paestum coincides exactly with a passage in Herodotus in which , although he does not mention the temple , he speaks of the celebrity of a Posidonian architect .
A Study of the Phenomena and Causation of Heat-contraction of Skeletal Muscle .
" By T. G. Brodie , M.D. , and S. W. F. Richardson , M.B. , B.S. Communicated by W. D. Halliburton , F.R.S. Received March 2 , \#151 ; Read March 11 , 1897 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of St. Thomas ' Hospital .
) ( Abstract .
) In carrying out some experiments to determine the changes in length of a muscle when subjected to varying loads and temperatures , we have paid particular attention to those changes produced from the onset of heat-contraction up to a higher temperature .
We have , for the particular study of these changes , always employed a sar-torius preparation of a frog immersed in diluted defibrinated blood , which was gradually heated in a water bath .
The changes in length were recorded photographically .
The necessary tension was applied by means of a very weak spiral spring .
If the load be low\#151 ; we have usually employed one belowr 1 gram\#151 ; the record shows four separate contractions .
These are :\#151 ; ( 1 ) A contraction commencing at about 82 ' C. , and ceasing at about 40 ' C. ( 2 ) A second commencing at about 46 ' C. , and ceasing soon after 50 ' C. ( 3 ) A third commencing at about 56 ' C. , and ceasing soon after 60 ' C. ( 4 ) A fourth commencing at about 63 ' C. , and extending up to 75 ' C. If we contrast the temperatures of these contractions with those given as the points of coagulation of the pi'oteids of frog 's muscle plasma by v. Fxirth , we find that the first three agree in all points Some Experiments with Cathode Rays .
with the proteids termed by v. Fiirth soluble myogen-fibrin , myosin , and myogen respectively .
The fourth corresponds with the temperature at which white fibrous and yellow elastic tissue contract when heated .
We have concluded from this and many other facts that the contractions produced by heat are at basis caused by the heat-coagulation of the different proteids .
We have obtained corresponding results with mammalian muscle ; here the contraction at 32\#151 ; 40 ' does not occur , and soluble myogen-fibrin is absent from the muscle plasma .
" Some Experiments with Cathode Rays .
" By A. A. C. Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received February 27 , \#151 ; Read March 11 , 1897 .
The extensive employment of the focus form of Crookes ' tubes as the most efficient known means of generating X-rays , has rendered advisable the more complete investigation of the cathode ray discharge in tubes Of this description .
Hitherto , the usual method of investigating the characteristics of a cathode ray discharge apart from its mechanical properties , and beyond what is visible to the unassisted eye , has been by allowing the rays to fall upon a screen of some brightly fluorescent material , such as glasses of various descriptions , or screens covered with fluorescent salts .
With all of these the maximum amount of fluorescence appears to be produced by such comparatively weak cathode rays , that in some cases the special effects produced by the more powerful rays seem to be more or less entirely masked , while the well-known phenomenon of the fatigue of fluorescent substances , when exposed to the more active rays , conduces to the same result .
Surface Luminescence of Carbon when exposed to Cathode Rays .
I have found in some cases that by replacing the usual screen , made of or covered with fluorescent material , by one of ordinary electric-light carbon , much appears which was previously invisible .
When a concentrated stream of powerful cathode rays are focussed upon a surface of carbon in this manner , a very brilliant and distinctly defined luminescent spot appears on the surface of the carbon at the point of impact of the rays , the remainder of the carbon remaining black .
This luminescent spot seems to have a very close relation to the fluorescent spots on glass and on other fluorescent materials under similar influence .
The effect is evidently a purely surface effect , as when the cathode stream is rapidly deflected by

