A paper was read , entitled , " On the State of the Interior of the Earth .
" By W. Hopkins , Esq. , M. A. , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , &amp;c. The object of the present memoir is to inquire into the modes in which the refrigeration of the earth may have taken place , on the hypothesis that its entire mass was originally in a fluid state ; an hypothesis which was at first founded on astronomical considerations , and is now corroborated by the discoveries of modern geology , exhibiting the apparent injection from below of large masses of unstratified rocks , through the fissures of sedimentary strata .
As ?
suming that this state of fluidity was the effect of heat , we are led to consider the steps of transition b ) ' which the earth has passed into its present state of solidity , and apparently permanent temperature .
After adverting to the analytical investigations of Fourier and Poisson on this subject , the author proceeds to inquire into the results of the laws of refrigeration of heated bodies , which may be conceived to operate in the present case ; namely , refrigeration by circidation , which obtains when the fluidity is perfect , and that by conduction , when the particles of the mass , by the diminution of fluidity , no longer retain that mobility among one another which is requisite for their circulation .
Thus while , in either case , the superficial parts of the earth would rapidly cool and solidify by the radiation of their heat into sidereal space , forming a crust of small thickness compared with the whole radius of the globe , the internal mass may be in one or other of the three following conditions : ?
First , it may consist of matter still in a state of fusion , of which both the temperature and the fluidity are greatest at the centre , but which has been brought , by the long-continued process of circulation , into a state no longer admitting of this process , and capable , therefore , of cooling only by conduction .
Secondly , the earth may consist of an external shell , of a central nucleus , rendered solid by the enor ?
mous pressure to which it is subjected , and of an intermediate stratum of matter in a state of fusion .
The thickness of the shell , as well as the radius of the solid nucleus , may possibly be small compared with the radius of the earth .
The fluidity of the intervening mass must necessarily be here , also , considerably more imperfect than that which would just admit of cooling by circulation .
Thirdly , the earth may be solid from the surface to the centre .
The author then shows that the direct investigation of the manner in which the earth has been cooled , assuming its original fluidity from heat , cannot determine the actual condition of its central parts , not from any imperfection in the analytical process , but from the want of the experimental determination of certain values , which it is extremely difficult , if not impossible , accurately to obtain .
It has occurred to the author that a more indirect test of the truth of the hypothesis of the central fluidity of the earth might be found in the delicate but well-defined phenomena of precession and nutation .
The investigation of the problems thus suggested is reserved by the author for the subject of a future memoir .

