]\gt ; 3 Messrs. W. Macnab and tori .
[ lIay 10 , parts of the corona in this way .
All the photographs show a bright continuous specbl.um from the inner corona .
Some of the plates taken out of totaliby show numel.ous bright lines at the cusps of the crescenb of the sun then visibIe , chief among them being the lines of and the and lines of calcium ; others , farther removed from the second and third contacts , show only the raunhofer lines .
III .
" " Bcf ; earches on Model'n Explosives.\mdash ; Preliminary Commlmlcatio]l By , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , and E. RISTORI , Ass .
M. Inst. C.E. , F.R.A.S. Communicated by , F.R.S. Beceived February 28 , 1894 .
During the last two years we have cal.ried out a series of experiments with explosive compounds for the purpose of tudying chemical reactions at high temperatures and pressures , and of elncidating certain thel'mal constants chieHy to the specific heat of gases under such conditions .
For these experiments we have ] used nitro-ceIlulose , and several combinations of these two bodies which are used as smokeless gunpowders , for the reason that such moderrl explosives offer the advantage of not only presenting comparatively simple chemical reactions , owing to the absence of ] residue , but also of enabling considerable variations to be made in their composition so as to vary the proportions of the elements reaccing .
We also expected that the results which we obtained would makc a small contribution to knowledge of explosi in general , following up the lines indicated by the published work of ] and Abel , Berthelot , Sarrau , VieilIe , and others .
In this preliminary communication we propose chiefly to dicate the esults obtained in the measurement of the heat evolved by explosion , and of the quantity and composition of the gases produced by this metamorphosis .
We have also made considerable progress towards the determination of the actual temperature of explosion , and we have succeeded in recording these high temperatures by photographic means , but , as this work is not yet cted , we shall not further l.efer to it ill this paper , but we hope it will make the subject of another communication an date .
These modern explosives , especially the smokeless powders , have assumed of late such importance that it may be of interest to give here a sketch of their development .
About years ago experiments were made in ) 1894 .
] Researches on Modern Explosive object of using -cotton for the charges of rifle ammunition , but no success was obtained , and the mattel opped .
Other explosives , consisting principally of -lignin or nitrocellulose , not gelatinised , and mixed with nitrates or other substances , were afterwards invented and adopted for sporting guns successfully , and have been largely sold in the market under different -known names .
These explosives , however , were not found suitable for the charges of rifles and guns .
Further development in the science of , and a better knowledge of the action of explosives , encouraged further researches for the production of new propelling agents for rifles and guns , and these researches have been so far uccessful that in a few years several new powders have been produced , each one of which is far superior to black gunpowder .
The new explosives now in use contain nitro-cellulose as oue of their principal elements ; some of tbem contain also niro-gycerll in more or less proportion ; the nitro-cellulose , by soIution in nitroglycerin , acetone , or other suitable solvent , is felatinised , and by mechanical means the explosive compound is compl.essed and squirted into cords , or rolled into sheets , and them cut into strips or grains of suitable size for the different fireal.ms .
The great secret of all these modern explosives seems to be that by the above mealls they are made into a solid substance , thus avoiding any porosity , and it appears probable that by doing so even the most powerful explosive can be mastcred , so that , burning ularly f the surface , the rate of combustion can be controlled so as to avoid detonation .
This constitutes the most of the modern smokeless gunpowders , especially of those containing nitro-glycerin .
If certain sized cn bes , strips or cords of such powders are fired in a certain gun , and the length of this gun does not allow of sufficient tillle during the travel of the sbot , for the -plosive to be entirely consumed , the unburnt residue of the cbarge will be found to be of the same shape , whether cubcs , strips or cords , reduced in size ; thus proving the most perfect surface combustion of these explosives .
lt is thns possible to determine accurately what quantity of exploslve , and what surface of combustion for the same , will be required , order to obtain certain resuIts in a tain gull , thus waste of powder .
This perty of modern smokeless powder was illustrated on ) occasion of a disastrous fire which occurred in May , 1890 , at tho factory of Avigliana , Italy , where large quantities of the explosive called ballistite were manufactured for the Government .
In building twelve tons of this explosive were collccted .
thd v operations of manufacture were performed .
By ident some of it .
10 bIcsblB , W. and E. Ristori .
[ May 10 , took fire , and the whole quantity was in a fcw fhough t ; powder was made of such powerful expIosives -glycerin and nitro-ceIlulose , and though the amount was so large that , had ib been black powder , it would havo caused destrtlC- for many miles around , still there was no explosion of any kind ; none of the machinery was in any damaged , and wood was barely charred .
The explosives used these experiments can be ided i thrce classes : 1 .
Those consisting of nitro-lignin or nitro-ceIlulose ( not gelatinised ) , mixed , or imreo.nated with a suitable , and mixed colouring matters and some other substances for the purpose of retarding the rate of combustion .
We have taken as samples of class the EC and the SS powders now commonly used in guns ( the EC consisting principally of nitro-cellulose mixed with barium nitrale and a small proportion of camphor , the SS powder of nilro-lignin mixed with nitrate and nitro-ben .
2 .
Those purified or nitro-cellulose gelatinised by a suitable process , and with or without the addition of nitro-benzene 01 other suitable As sample of this class we have taken the BN manufacby the ench Government , and also the and the roisdorf powder , which are now commonly use for small arms tmmunition .
( The BN consists mainly of golatinised nitro-cellulose ; Troisdorf also consists of gelatinised nitro-celIulose , but is coated aphite .
Rifleite is also made with tinised nitro , with the addition , howe , of a cel tain proportion of nitrobenzene ) .
3 .
Those consisting of nitro-cellulose combined with the addition of aniline , camphor , vaseline , or othel kindred ) stances .
To this class belong cordite and ballistite .
Cordite contains 58 per cent. of Ilitro-glyccrill , per cent. -cotton , and .
) per cent. of vaseline .
Ballistite of ] manufacture tains equaI parts of nitrocellulose and nitrolcel .
, with tIlc addition of per cent. of aniline .
Ballistite of German manufacture containft slightly centag.e of nitro-cellulose , and is coated with raphitc .
Besides , for the purpose of these expel.iments , a of mples of ballistite were made llitlin llitro-ce]lulose in tions .
The experiments ried out in two closed vessols of nl dimensions and corstruction\mdash ; a 1trge one of prcssures , and a one for 1894 .
] on Mode The large one consists of a steel cylinder of great ickness , ends by -plugs .
One plug is provided with a crushel.gauge of the well-known pattern by which the compression of a inder of copper serves to measure the pressure developed .
plug is provided an insulated conical core , by means of which an electric current can be passed for the purpose of firing charge .
A small hole on the side of the cylinder , bushed with iridium-platinum , and closed by a plug , to con escape of the gases produced by the expJoslOll .
The capacity of the chamber ] measured , and found to be The small vessel is of the same pattern as used by Berthelot , rind was made by Golaz , of Paris .
It has given great satisfaction , and is in excellent order , although it has been used for more than two hundred explosions .
This bomb , which is made of mild sbiel is cylindrical in ) consists essentially of th.ee parts\mdash ; a bowl , a conical lid is ccurately ground into the bowl , and a tightening cap which on to the bowl over the lid .
There is a small hole in the lid provided with a tube , which can bc opened and closed by means of a conical plug .
There is also an insulated platinum cone from underth in the lid , which admits of the charge in the bomb being fired by a nllm W heated to eduess by electricit .
From the lid depend platinum supports which carry a platinum capsule , in which the explosive is placed and suspended in the middle of the chamber .
The capacity of this bomb is 488 the total weight , including a small stand , when ready for immersion io the imeter , grams .
The Calorimeter is made of thin sheet , and a helicoidal stirrer of the same metal ( Berthelot 's pattel.n ) , driven } a smalI olectromotol during the } ) el.iment , serves to thoroughly mix Wftter .
The calorimeter stood in the of an ftnnular water-jackel covered with felt .
The of Ttsed in : time was 2,500 grams , and the equivulent in water of the bomb , , and calorimeter , due allowance having been made for diflerent specific heats of the different , is grams .
The diiferent thermometers employed were specially made Casella , capable of being read to of a degree centigrade , an eights of their stems , bulbs , and mel.cury were known .
experiments were made in the large vessel , especially the purpose of determining the pressure of the Bo.ases under different nsitieh of 12 lIessrs .
W. lIacnab and E. Bistori .
These trials were out in a field , the bomb being ]owered into a hole in ground before firing .
Various difficuIties were encountered , and in one experiment considerable damage was done by the heated ases effecting their escape at the moment of explosion , and " " washing away\ldquo ; part of the thread of one of the screw plugs .
With a density of loading of , i.e. , with a charge of , the average of the pressures measured was tons per square inch ; with density the pressul'e rose to 15 tons , and with the pressure increased to 25 tons .
These results are slmilar to those published by Sir A. Noble , F.R.S. With the small bomb were ascertained the amount of heat generated by explosion , the volume and composition of the permallent gases resulting , and the quantity of aqueous vapour produced .
As most of the explosives ained no mineral matter beyond a trifling of " " ash it has been possible to analyse them in this way , the products of explosion when calculated the analysis volume of permanent gas and aqueous vapour reeing closely with the weight of matter in the bomb before firing .
A few of the explosives left a carbonaceous or mineral residue ; but these will be specially noticed further on in connexion with the of the l.esults .
The heat evolved was measured by placing the bomb containing tbc chal'ge of explosive in the calorimeter containing 2500 of waber , and it was arranged that the temperature of the air , the water jacket , and the calorimeter closely approximated each other .
The stirrer was set in lnotion , and the thermometer in the calorimeter read with a kathetometer .
Observations of the temperatures were made every minute for the five minutes preceding the firing of the \ldquo ; and continued at intervals of a minute until the maximum was reached , and for minutes longer .
The corl.ection for loss of he due to radiation of heat during the experiments nted in generaI to about of .
The incl.ease in temperattlre varied about to C. according to the charge and explosive used .
The oo.asbo.enerated by the explosion was passed ] drying tubes collnected with valve on the lid of the vessel , and then collected and measured in a calibrated glass cylinder ovel .
The reading of the bal.ometer and thermometer lvas noted .
and the volume reduced to C. and 760 mm , The water was determined by bomb in a boiling water .
A -way glass stop-cock intervened betweell the valve of bomb and the tubes , and the other of the drying was connected with a water vacuum pump .
1894 .
] on .
13 The other branch of the three-way tap was connected with a separate drying apparatus .
When the water ounding the bomb boiling , by starting the vacuum pump the steam and water were into the absorbing apparatus ; after a good vacuum had been made the bomb the three-way tap was turned so that dry air in .
then connexion was with the drying apparatus , the bomb again exhausted , and so on , alternately , until ( as experience showed ) all the water had been removed from the bomb and in the tubes , which were then weighed .
The weights of water thus obtained were calculated into volumes of at C. and 760 mm. The analyses of gas were carried out in duplicate in Dittmar 's apparatus as improved by Lennox .
1 most of the experiments the bomb , previous to , was exhausted , and the amount of residual , varying to 40 mm. , noted on closing it .
The amount of air corresponding to these pressures left in the bomb has the effect of increasing the heat crenerated by a small quantity amounting to 5 to 7 calories .
This quautity being within the limits of error of the calorimetric observation no correction was made for the same , but the quantity of residnal .
) taken into account when comparing the weighls of the products found with the of the explosive used .
Thus in Tables I and II the volumes of gas of the given composition and of aqueous vapour were obbained from the given weight of explosive increased by the weight of the air .
to the vacuum indicated .
When firing in an exhausted bomb it was found necessary to ve the explosive surrounding the firing wire in comparatively small pieces in der to ensure ignition of the charge .
Table I gives the principal resuIts obtained with the r ; everal ders above mentioned , Tables II and III give the results obtained with samples of ballistite made with proportions of the component parts , Table IV indicates the effect of different weights of the same explosive in a closed vessel from the air has not been exhausted , and Table gives the elementary composition of several explosives compal.ed with the products of combustion , both being represented as With the exception of the results given in Table , all the others were obtained from the firing of 4 grams of the explosive .
In Tables I and II we ) expressed the resuIts of firing some powders now use as well as certain specially prcpared powders , so as to show the quantity of heat and the volumes and analyses of the gases produced , and have in the column headed " " Coefficient of potential energy given figures which serve as a measure of comparison of the power of he scvel.al explosives .
These , are lIessrs .
W. and .
Ristori .
[ May 10 , 94 .
] Researches Modern ) losives .
l5 16 Messrs. .
Macnab and E. Ristori .
[ May 10 , the products of the number of calories by the volumes of gas , tho last three figures being suppressed iu order to simplify the resuIts .
In the case of EC and SS a certain amount of mineral residue was was not determined .
Troisdorf leaves a slight , and ifleibe and BN a considerable , carbonaceous residue , part of it adhe so tenaciously to the bomb that an exact ermination was not made .
In the other experiments recorded in Tables I and II the degree of accuracy of the results may be g.auged by the fact that the average weight of the products of explosion , calculated from the results found amounts to per cent. of the weight of the explosive fired , the extreme limits being and per cent. In II the comparison of the pairs of results from explosives made with lower and more highly nitrated nitro-cellulose shows tbab the use of the ] nitrated cellulose increases the quantity of developed , and diminishes the volume of gas .
The composition Table IIT.\mdash ; Showing the Heat developed by Explosives and Nitl.o-cellulose in different proportions .
1894 .
] Researches Jfodern Explosives .
of the permanent gases is also altered , as might be expected , being an increase in bonic acid and decrease in carbonic oxide and ogen .
The similarity in the volumes of gas produced and the composition of the permanent gases in the case of experiments and is vorthy of note when the great difference in the component ingredients of the explosives is borne in miud .
Table III shows clearly the increase of heat due to increased percentage of nitro.glycerin , as as the difference of heat evolved from explosives containing nitro-ceIlulose of differenlt degreef$ of nitration .
The diminution in quantity of heat ( about 200 calories ) which the of 5 per cent. of ulose by vaseline makes is also very striking .
Table \mdash ; Showing the Heat developed and the Analysis of the Permanenb Gas produced in a closed Vessel from which the Air has not been exhausted\mdash ; the Hixplosive being in every Ballistite of Italian Manufacture .
Traces of were found , but in this series of experiments the quantity of this gas was not determined .
Table shows the part played by the oxygen of the air in the bomb ; when a smaller proportion of explosive in comparison with the air is present the combustion is more complete , and the heat evolved is greater , alJd the composition of the gases is correspondingly modified .
In Table the percentage composition of some of the explosives , along with the of the of explosion by weight , is given .
The composition of the samples has been from bomb\ldquo ; analyses ; as an example , one of the sives and its decomposition may be represented approximately by the ing equation .
We have assumed the nitlllose to consist of a mixtu of diResearches on Explosives .
[ May 10 , 1\mdash ; 1894 .
] On Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
and tri-nitro-cellulose in proportion corresponding to the nitrogen found by analysis .
The equation for Experiment may be taken as follows:\mdash ; 50 per cent. 50 cent. nitro-cellulose Cerin .
per cent The composition of this explosive , calculabed from the foregoing formula and found by anaIysis , is as follows:\mdash ; Formula . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
H. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.67 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
These are some of the principal features noticeable in a survey of the experimenffi .
We are continuing our on the lines indicated in the paper , and are especially to measure the actual temperature of explosion under varying conditions , and it is hoped that the results obtained will throw some on the chemical and physical properties of many gases at high temperatures and under considerable pressures , and , at the same time , be useful in the practical application of explosives .
IV .
" " On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 By CHARLES DAVISON , M.A. , Mathematical Master at Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor J. H. pointing , F.R.S. Received February 28 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
On August 4 , 1893 , at 6.41 , an earthquake of intensity neal .
lie equal to 6 ( according to the Rossi-Forel scale ) was felb over the whole of Leicestershire and Rutland and in parts of all the adjoining counties .
The disturbed area was 58 miles long , 46 miles broad , and contained an area of about 2066 square miles .
The direction of the longer axis ( about W. N. and E. S. ) and the relative position of the isoseismal lines show that the .
fault , if the earthquake were due to fault-slipping , must run in about the direction indicated , passing between Woodhouse Eaves and Markfield , and heading

