]\gt ; The Depression of Freezing Point in very Dilute Aqueous Solutions .
By T. G. BEDFORD , Sidney Sussex College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. E. H. Griffiths , F.B.S. Received January 12 , \mdash ; Read March 3 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) 1 .
According to the ionisation theory , both the depression of the freezing point and the conductivity of a solution of an electrolyte are connected with the ionisation of the solute , and conclusions as to the degree of ionisation in dilute solutions may be drawn from both phenomena , on certain assumptions .
The experiments on the depression of the freezing point of very dilute solutions , described in the paper , were planned in.connexion with measurements of the conductivity of similar solutions which were made by Mr. W. C. D. Whetham , , and have been described in papers* communicated to the Royal Society in 1900 and 1902 .
It was intended to compare the conclusions , drawn from the results of the associated researches , as to the degree of ionisation of the solutions , especially at great dilution .
If it be assumed that each molecule which dissociates in solution yields ions , and that the osmotic pressure is equal to the pressure , according to the simple laws of gases , existing in a gas having the same number of molecules per unit volume as there are molecules and ions in unit volume of the solution , then the coefficient of ionisation ( the proportion molecules ionised in the solution ) is given by .
Here ] is the molecular depression ( i.e. the depression of the freezing point below that of pure water , divided by , the number of grammemolecules of solute per 1000 grammes of solution , and is the molecular depression occurring at reat dilution when no ionisation occurs , as in the case of a non-electrolyte .
If the ionic viscosity be constant , the coefficient of ionisation should also be given by the expression where is the equivalent conductivity of the solution ( i.e. the specific W. C. D. Whetham , " " The Ionisation of Dilute Solutions at the Freezing Point ' Phil. Trans , vol. 194 ( 1900 ) , p. 321 , and ' Ro Soc. Proc ( 1900 ) , p. 192 ; also " " The Electrical Conductivity of Solutions at the Freezing Point of Water ' Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. ) , p. 332 .
The Depression of Freezing Point , etc. conductivity divided by the number of electrical gramme-equivalents of solute per 1000 grammes of solution ) , and is the maximum value of the equivalent conductivity at extreme dilution , when the electrolyte is assumed to be completely ionised .
One of the objects of the two sets of experiments was to test the applicability of these expressions .
2 .
The apparatus used in the freezing-point experiments consisted of two exactly similar parts arranged side by side so that experiments could be performed in duplicate , pure water and the solution being treated simultaneously in the same manner .
On each side was a cylindrical platinum vessel , over half a litre in capacity , supported within a brass vessel , which was immersed in a large tank containing pounded ice and water , and provided with a rotatory stirrer protected by a wire cage .
The only openings into each platinum vessel were through two tubes ; one of these tubes , which water and stock solution were introduced , was closed during an experiment by the insertion of the " " nucleus\ldquo ; tube , while the other allowed the passage of the rod of an up-and-down stirrer furnished with three perforated platinum plates .
Three other platinum tubes , closed at lower ends , passed into the interior of each platinum vessel and were fused into the top , where they passed through it .
One of these tubes contained a platinum-resistance thermometer , the second a mercury thermometer , and the third a coil of wire through which a current could be passed to heat the contents of the vessel .
The stirrers were connected by a cross beam and were driven by means of a water motor , so that the length of stroke and the rate of were always the sa1ne on the two sides .
To .
close each platinum vessel and at the same time to allow the rise and fall of the stirrer without the passage of air in and out of the vessel at each stroke , the rod of the stirrer and the tube through which it passed were connected by a segmented rubber apparatus , or " " bellows made specially for the purpose .
The lower end of the bellows was bound to the platinum tube and the upper end to the rod .
The lower end of a similar bellows was fastened to the cross beam connecting the stirring rods , and upper end to a fixed glass tube , bent over at the top and joined to a branch from the platinum tube .
Thus , as the stirring rod travelled up and down , the segments of one of the bellows opened out while those of the other were closing up .
The two platinum thermometers were similar and of equal resistance ( about 16 ohms ) , and each was provided with a compensator .
The glass case of each thermometer fitted into one of the platinum tubes , as already mentioned , and was cut offa little above the level of the top of the coil , so that the coil , when in position , was immersed directly in insulating oil contained 456 Mr. T. G. Bedford .
The Depression of Fr.eezi.ng [ Jan. 12 , in the platinum tube .
The head of each thermometer where the platinum leads passed through , and were fused into , the glass , was protected by being embedded in paraffin wax .
The platinum thermometers , a pair of short bridge-wires in a box of special design , and a pair of equal platinum coils wound together and contained in a tube immersed in one of the ics tanks , were arranged in the manner of Wheatstone 's bridge .
One pair of equal arms consisted of the two equal coils , each in conjunction with half of one of the bridge-wires ; while the thermometer coils , each in conjunction with the compensator of the other thermometer and with the part of the second -wire on one side of the contact-maker , formed the other pair .
The bridge-wires and the thermo- meters were previously standardised carefully .
A difference of 1 mm. in the position of the contact-maker required for a balance corresponded to C. With the sensitive mirror galvanometer used , a movement of 1/ 250 mm. along the bridge-wire could be detected easily when the total battery current was ampere .
3 .
The last distillation of the water used was made from a platinum still , and the distillate was collected in platinum bottles , whence it was transferred to the platinum freezing vessels without coming into contact with any other material .
More than the quantity required was first introduced , and soin was then withdrawn by means of an apparatus by which the level was brought down to a standard position , the capacity of each vessel up to this standard level having been determined previously .
Measurements of the resistance of specimens of the water were made , a Jena glass cell being employed .
The specific resistance was generally about ohm-cm .
The freezing vessels having been filled to the standard levels with pure water , the " " null-point , \ldquo ; or the balancing position of the contact-maker on the bridge-wire when the thermometers were at the same temperature , was first found as follows .
Ether was introduced into the brass case surrounding each freezing vessel through .
tube leading into the base .
Encircling , without touching , each freezing vessel near the middle , was a perforated ring joined to a tube passing through the side of the brass case .
By putting this tube into communication with a water pump , dry air was made to bubble through the ether from the tube connected to the base of the brass case .
The evaporation of the ether cooled the water in the freezing vessel .
The water was stirred continuousIy and cooled to about C. The unused ether was withdrawn , and after the ether vapour had been extracted , the space between the brass and platinum vessels was filled with dry air .
Stirring was stopped , and alittle ether which had been placed in each nucleus tube ( a fine platinum tube closed at one end ) was evaporated rapidly by connexion with the pump .
Crystals of ice were formed on the end of the nucleus tube .
Rapid 1910 .
] Point in very Dilute Aqueous Solutio ns .
stirring of the overcooled liquid was begun , ice became disseminated throughout , and the temperature rose rapidly towards the freezing point .
The normal rate of resumed , and the reading of the position of the contactmaker on the bridge wire was taken when it became steady\mdash ; usually after about 10 minutes .
The ice formed was then melted , by means of the heating coils , in readiness for another experiment .
After the determinations of the null point , a weighed quantity of a stock solution of a substance to be tested was added by means of a platinum apparatus made for the purpose .
After thorough mixing , solution was withdrawn to readjust the level , if more than about 5 .
had been added .
The water and solution were overcooled , each to the same extent , and the experiment completed in the same manner as in the determination of the null point .
The experiment was then repeated if desired .
The difference between the nullpoint and the bridge-wire reading in the experiments on the solution gave the depression of the freezing point .
In calculating the concentration , allowance was made for the quantity of ice formed on account of the overcooling .
Successive quantities of stock solution were added , and thus a series of determinations for different strengths was made for each solute used .
The depressions which were measured ranged from about C. to C. , but the upper limit was for most substances considerably less .
It was unnecessary to attempt to secure that the ence temperature should coincide with the freezing point , since , on account of the similarity of the conditions in the two simultaneous experiments , the diffel.ence between the conYergence temperature and the freezing point ( and consequently the difference between the temperature of the liquid and the freezing point ) was the same on the two sides .
Under the conditions of the experiments the convergence temperature was about C. above the freezing point , and it was estimated that the amount by which the temperature of the liquid exceeded the true freezing point was certainly considerably less than C. 4 .
In the full paper are tables of the results , and also diagrams in which the molecular depressions are plotted against the concentrations .
To show what seemed the most probable course for a curve connecting the molecular depression with the concentration , a broken line - been drawn in each diagram ; but the irregularities in the positions of the points , especially in the region corresponding to very small concentrations , generally allowed some latitude in the drawing of the curve .
458 Mr. T. G. Bedford .
The Depression of Freezing [ Jan. 12 , The Results .
5 .
Cane Sugar.\mdash ; This was the only non-electrolyte tested .
In the first set of experiments the concentration varied from gramme-molecule per 1000 grammes of solution , and in the second set from to Both sets indicated a molecular depression constant within the limits of experimental errors , the value being C. according to the first set and C. according to the second set .
Thus we may conclude that the molecular depression in very dilute solutions is very near C. , which is ( to the seconld place of decimals ) the value of deduced theoretically .
6 .
To give a eneral idea of the results for electrolytes , the accompanying table has been drawn up to show the values of the molecular depressions , according to the curves in the diagrams , the values of deduced from them , and the values of a'according to Whetham 's conductivity measurements ( S 1 ) , for a series of values of the concentration , , for each substance tested .
The vaIues of are given to the second place of decimals , those of to the nearest Potassium Chloride.\mdash ; Special experiments were made to test whether the molecular depressions in very dilute solutions of this salt reach the value corresponding to complete ionisation .
The molecular depressions found for concentrations below in four independent series of experiments were as follows:\mdash ; ' Whence it may be concluded that the value is actually attained .
Potassium Permanganate.\mdash ; The greatest molecular depressions measured in solutions of this salt were as follows:\mdash ; It appears probable , therefore , that for this salt also the molecular depression reaches the limit , and that the more complex molecule also becomes completely ionised in very dilute solutions , each molecule yielding two ions .
Magnesium Sulphate.\mdash ; The molecular depressions found for concentrations below , in two series of experiments , were as follows:\mdash ; . .
The molecular depression increases rapidly with decreasing concentration , and the results are consistent with the attainment of the limit in very Point in very Dilute Aqueous Solutions .
459 even smaller concentrations than those which we used , would be required to show satisfactorily that the molecular depression reaches the value but does not exceed it .
Copper Sulphate.\mdash ; The molecular depressions found were less than those for solutions of magnesium sulphate of equivalent molecular strengths .
If the limiting value is reached , it must be at concentrations much less than those of the solutions which we used .
Chloride.\mdash ; The molecular depressions found for concentrations below , in two series , were as follows:\mdash ; ' Sulphuric Acid.\mdash ; The molecular depressions found for concentrations below were as follows:\mdash ; 5.275 , The results both for barium chloride and for sulphuric acid suggest that the molecular depression actually reaches the limit , corresponding to complete ionisation with a resolution of each molecule into 3 ions , but the experiments on the more dilute of the solutions were not sufficient to establish this conclusively in either case .
For solutions of potassium chloride , potassium permanganate , magnesium sulphate , copper sulphate , barium chloride , and sulphuric acid , the values of the coefficient deduced from the freezing-point experiments are less than those of deduced from conductivity measurements , except for concentrations in the region of extreme dilution .
Potassium Ferricyanide.\mdash ; The dilute solution used had a concentration , and gave molecuIar depression .
Thus , in very dilute solutions the molecular depression has a value very near , which would correspond to complete ionisation with a resolution of each molecule into 4 ions ; but doubt is thrown on this view of the ionisation of the salt by the fact that the values of deduced on this assumption are greater than the values of Potassium chromate.\mdash ; The assumption of the resolution of the molecule into two positive monovalent potassium ions , and the complex negative divalent ion , made in calculating the values of from the conductivity measurements , is not supported by the freezing-point experiments .
All the molecular depressions found exceeded the value , which would correspond to complete ionisation according to this view ; so that it is probable that 1910 .
] Point in very Dilute Solutions .
461 interaction between the salt and the water occurs with the formation of more than 3 ions per molecule of salt concerned .
The more regular of the two eries of experiments which were made indicated ( corresponding to 4 ions ) as a probable value of the limiting molecular depression , and the other series a higher value .
In the table the values of calculated by taking are given , but it is unlikely that the simple assumptions that each molecule yields the same number of ions , and that this number is the same for different concentrations , correspond with the facts .
The divergence which is shown , except at extreme dilution , between the values of and , indicates that the conditions under which the coefficient of ionisation is represented truly by one , and probably both , of the quantities is soon departed from as the concentration increases .
The near approach of the molecular depressions in very dilute solutions to the values which would be expected from the ionisation theory , in those cases in which a probable assumption as to the state of ionisation can be made , lends support to that theory .
7 .
The experiments were begun by Principal E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. , who designed the apparatus and made many of the measurements ; the work was continued by the writer .
Appended to the paper is a note by Mr. W. C. D. Whetham on the bearing of the results of the conductivity and freezingpoint experiments on the general theory of solutions .

