11 .
" On the Insulating Properties of Gutta Percha .
" By FLEEMING JENKIN , Esq. Communicated by Professor WILLIAM THOMSON .
Received February 9 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in this paper were undertaken with the view of deternmining the resistance opposed by the gutta-percha coating of submarine cables at various temperatures to the passage of an electric current .
The experiments were made at the works of RI .
S. Newall and Co. , Birkenhead .
The relative resistance of the gutta percha at various temperatures was determtiued by measuring the loss on shortw lengths inmmersed in water .
These experimenits are described in the first part of the paper .
The absolute resistane of gutta perela hbas beeni calculated from the loss on long submarinie cables .
'b esexperiments and calculations are described in the second part of ti7h paper .
PART I. The loss of electricity was measured upon three differe nt coils , each one knlot in length .
One was covered cwith pure gnitta perhea ; the two remaining coils were covered with gutta perclca and Chatteiton 's comppound .
The coils were kept at various temperatures by being covered with water in a felted tuib ; and the water was maintained at a constant tenmperature for twelve or fourteeni hours before each experiment .
The loss or current flowing from the metal conductor to earth through the gutta-percha coatihg was inieasured on a very delicate sine-galvanometer .
The loss from the connexions when .
the cable was disconniected , was measured in a sinilar manner .
The electromotive force of the battery enmployed was on each occasion measured in the manner deseribed by Pouillet .
Corrections due to varying electromotive force aId loss on conexionis were made on the result of each experiment .
A remarkarble and regular decrease in the loss was observed for some minutes after the first application of the battery to the cable ; a phenomenon , which the author thinks may be dtue to the polarization of the molecules of gutta pereca , or of the moisture contained in the pores of the gtutta percha .
The loss was therefore measured from minute to mii ute for five minutes , with each pole of the battery .
Nineteen tables containing the results , with the reductions and curves representing the results , accompany the paper .
The following results were obtained from the first coil ; this was prepared with Chatterton 's patent compounid .
Vith a negative current betweer the limits of 500 and 800 Fahreiheit , the decrease of resistanie is sensibly constant for equal ineremenits of temperature ; and the inerease of resistance due to continued electrification is also nearly constact .
t At 60 ' the resistane , increases acbout 20 pei cent. in five miinuties from this cause .
Vita a positive cm rrent , similar resulits appear between the temperatures of 500 and 60 ?
; but the resistance is somliewhat greater than with the negative currenit .
The extra resistanice due to conitinued electrification is unichaniged by a chanige in the sign of the current .
Above the temperature of 63 ?
great irregularities occur in the observations , which could not even be inieluded in regular curves .
The difference in the resistance of the gutta-percha coating when the copper is positively and liegatively electrified , may be cauised by the cointact betwecu the resinous compound and the copper : no such difference was observed wheln pure guitta percia was in contact with the copper .
The curves resulting from the experiments o'n the second coil , which was covered with pure gutta percha , presenit an entirely different character from those resulting from the first coil .
The copper and gutta perlcha were of the same size in these two coils .
The resistance of pure gutta percha at low temperatures is greater tha that of the compound coveriDg .
At 650 the resistance of the two coverings is equal ; at higher temperatures the resistance of pure gutta percha diminishes extremely rapidly .
The curves obtained with positive and iiegative currents are idenitical up to about 750 ; a slight difference occurs above this temperature , which may have been accidental .
The extra resistance is less with pure gutta pereha than with the compound ; it increases slightly at high temperatures , and is not affected by a change in the sign of the current .
11e curves derived from the experiments on.the third coil , which contained a smaller proportioni of Chatterton ' s compound than the first coil , appear in some respects intermediate between those derived from the first and second coils .
The extra resistance due to conitiniued electrification was still greater in this coil than in the others .
40 per c ut .
of the entire resistance is at 700 due to this cause .
This increase is believed to be due to the greater mass of gutta pereha used in covering this coil , which was of larger dimensionis than the two others .
PART II .
Professor Thomson has supplied any equation expressina , the law which connects the resistance of a cylindrical covering , such as that of cable , with the resistanice of the uniit of the materia1 forming the coverilmg .
Let S be the specific resistanice of the material , or the resistaance of a bar one foot long , and one square foot in section ; let G be the resistance of the cylindrical cover of a length of cable L ; let be 0 ~~~~~6 the ratio of the externlal to the internal diameter of the covering ; then 2w7LG S= _ ... .-(1 ) a log b The resistance G was calculated from cables of various lengths , lying in iron wells at the works of R. S. Newall and Co. , Birkenhead .
The cables were not wet ; but direct experiment proved that covering a sound iron-covered cable with water has no effect on the loss .
The details of this experiment are given in the paper .
The resistance G was obtained in the following manner .
The copper conductor of the cable to be tested was arranged so as to form a complete metallic arc with a battery of 72 cells and a tangent galvanometer : the deflection on this galvanometer was read and entered as the continuity test .
Deflections were then read on the same galvanometer with the battery and several known resistances in circuit , for the purpose of measuring the resistance and electromotive force of the battery , in the manner described by Pouillet .
The deflection caused by the loss was next read on a second tangent galvanometer : the same battery was used .
This deflection was entered as the insulation test .
The temperature of the tank containing the cable was observed by means of a thermometer inserted in a metal tube , extending from the circumference into the mass of the coil .
The relative delicacy of the galvaniometers was ascertained by experiment , or , in other words , the coefficient was found by which the tangents of the deflections of the first were multiplied to render them directly comparable with the tangents of the deflections of the second galvanometer .
The resistances of the galvanometer coils , of the artificial resistance coils , and of the copper conductor of the cable were measured by Wheatstone 's differential arrangement .
Special experiments were made by means of this differential arrangement to determine the change of resistance of the copper conductor in the cable , produced by a change of temperature .
The equation ( No. 2 ) R=rX(l+ 0)00192t ) gives the value ot the resistance R of the copper wire at any temperature t+ +a in function of the resistance r at any temperature a ( Fahrenheit ) .
The length and temperature of any coil being known , the resistaniee of the copper wire was thus at once obtained from the resistance of one knot at 600 , which was very carefully determined .
Now let G=resistance of cylindrical coating .
D=deflection called the continuity test .
d= deflection called the insulation test .
C=coefficient expressing the relative delicacy of the two galvanometers .
BR=resistance of the battery .
T , =resistance of the coil of first galvanometer .
T2=resistance of the coil of second galvanometer .
G=C tan DX ( BR+T , +M ) _BR ?
T2 ? ?
2 ... .
( 3 ) G having been thus obtained in any desired units , S , the specific resistance of the material , can be at once obtained by equation No. 1 , which appears from several experiments to give constant values for S when calculated from cables of different dimensions .
In extreme cases , however , the influence of extra resistance would render the formula defective , especially after continued application of the current : thus the resistance of a foot-cube would be very different to that of an inch-cube .
The values of G for the covering of the Red Sea cable , after continued electrification for periods of one , two , three , four , and five minutes , were calculated in Thomson 's Absoluite British Units , from four sets of tests made specially for this purpose on four different cables , each about 500 knots long .
Tables containing the results of these calculations accompany the paper .
A Table is also given of the resistance of the Red Sea covering after one minute 's electrification , and after five minutes ' electrificationl , at each degree of temperature , from 50 ?
to 750 Fahrenheit .
This Table was formed by means of the temperature curves described in the first part of the paper : this Table is here annexed ( No. 1 ) .
Similar Tables were given for the covering of the two experimental coils mentioned in the first part of the paper .
The coil composed of pure gutta percha , gave very regular and complete results .
An abbreviation of the Table is annexed .
It was renmiarked that in the tests of the cable in the iron tanks , the resistance after five minutes ' electrification was invariably greater with zinC than with copper to cable , whilst the reverse was the case with the single knot covered by waiter .
The length of the cable , and the condition of immersion or non-immniersion , have probably Some inifluence on the phenomenion of extra-resistance .
This plheinomenon appears to the author to be of much importalnce , and to ( lemand further investigation .
The values of G were also calculated from the daily tests of the cables during manufacture at mainy temperatuires .
These values agreed with those given in the Tables above described .
The general results of the experimenits may be surmmeed up as follows .
The relative loss at various temperatures through pture gutta percha has been pretty accurately detera-iined for all orcliniary temnperatures .
To a less extent the same knowledge has beeni gained concerning two other coatings conitaining Chatterton 's conmpound .
The latter appears superior at high , and iniferior at low temperatures .
Attentioni has beeni drawni to the conisiderably increased resistance which follows the conitiniued electrification of gutta percha and its compounids .
Some of the laws of this extra resistaneo have been determined , and some suggestions macle as to the cause of the ihenrleor 1)i)hormen~on .
The bounLds have beeni pointed out withinl which formul may be iused , which consider gutta percha as a coniductor of the same nature as metals .
The resistance of gutta perchla has beeni obtained in unlits , such as are employed to measure the resistance of Lnetals ; and by the use of Professor Thomson 's formula , the specific resistance of a unit of the material has been fixed with some accuracy .
The resistance of other non-conductors , such as glass and the resins , may probably , by comparisoni with gutta percha , be obtained in the same units .
Incidentally , the increase of resistanice in copper with increased temperature has been given from new experiments ; and it has been shown that the insulation of a sound wire-covered cable is little , if at all , affected by submersion .
Finally , tables and formulae are gien by which the resistance of , or the loss through any new cable coated with gutta percha , may be at least approximately estimated : TABLE I. Spee/ ic Resistance in Thomson 's UTnits of the Red Sea Covering at various Temnperatures .
Zinc to cable .
Copper to cable .
TemperaAfter electrification After electrification After electrification After electrification ture .
for one minute .
for five minutes .
for one minute .
for five minutes .
600 2162 x 1017 3330 X 1017 2239 X 1017 3405 x 1017 65 1810X , , 2947X , , 1720X , , 2770 X 70 1460 x 2378X , , 1318X , , 2239 x 75 1160x , , 1753X , , 1000X , , 1739 X TABLE II .
Speciflc Resistance in Thomson 's Units of pure Gutta Percha at various Temperatures .
Zinc to cable .
Copper to cable .
TemperaAfter electrification After electrification After electrification After electrification ture .
for one minute .
for five minutes .
for one minute .
for five minutes .
50 4113 X 1017 5663 x 1017 4113 X 1017 5663 x 1017 55 2917X , , 3636x , , 2917X , , 3636X 60 2163X , , 2549X , , 2163X , , 2549 X ( ; 5 1634 X , 1858 X , , 1634 X , 1858 X , 70 1162X , , 1291X , , 1193X , , 1291 X 75 805 , , 877X , , 796 x , 866 X 80 566X , 613X X , 548 X , 59

