571 On Some Sources of Disturbance of the Normal Atmospheric Potential Gradient .
By W. A. Douglas Budge .
( Communicated by Dr. W. N. Shaw , F.B.S. Deceived May 26 , \#151 ; Bead June 25 , 1914 .
) The author lias made a study of some of the abnormal variations due to local circumstances and it appears that there are three main factors besides xain , hail and snow which may exert a disturbing influence , viz.:\#151 ; 1 .
The presence of dust raised by the wind sweeping over loose soil , etc. , or by traffic passing along roads and streets .
2 .
The presence of dust produced during certain manufacturing operations .
3 .
The presence of clouds of steam .
1 .
The Effects due to Dust .
In various communications* it has been shown that the presence of dust had a very marked influence on the atmospheric potential gradient , and in the earlier work it seemed to be in the direction of reducing the gradient or changing its sign from + to \#151 ; , the magnitude of the change depending upon the amount of dust present in the air .
These observations were taken in Africa and were carried on during a period of nearly four years over a large tract of country which included such places as Cape Town , Bloemfontein , Kimberley , Johannesburg , Pretoria , Durban , Lourenco Marques , Victoria Falls , Beira , Zanzibar , Mombasa , Port Sudan , Suez , Cairo , Port Said , and at altitudes varying from sea-level up to 7000 feet .
As far as Africa is concerned , the general result was that in nearly every case the presence of dust , whether raised by the wind or by trains , camels , horses or motor cars , caused the positive potential gradient to be diminished , and in extreme cases reversed .
During a " dust " storm negative potential gradients of 10,000 volts ( !
) per metre were not infrequent , but the positive value was as a rule quickly restored after the dust had settled .
The curve A ( fig. 1 ) is a record of such a storm taken with a Bendorff electrometer , the positive values of the gradient being shown above the line OO ' , and the negative values below ; the normal fine weather curve ( B ) is shown for contrast .
The sensitiveness of the electrometer was such that it could not record greater value than 400 volts per metre , and the horizontal portions of the curve indicate that the gradient was too high\#151 ; * ' Roy .
Soc. South Africa , ' vol. 2 , Part Y ( 1912 ) ; ' Nature , ' March 13 , 1913 ; \#163 ; Phil. Mag. , ' April , 1913 ; ' South African Journ. of Science , ' February and March , 1912 .
Mr. W. A. D. Kudge .
On Sources of probably over 2000 volts per metre\#151 ; to be recorded .
In addition to the negative charge given to the air a positive charge was present upon the dust 0J +IOO Hoursz -500 Fig. 1 .
when it was of a siliceous character ; but an extensive series of experiments made with dusts of different natures show that some give negative charges to the air , and others positive charges .
The negative charge seems to be associated with those bodies of an " acidic " character , whilst the positive charges are given by those of a " basic " character , or by salts such as the carbonates in which the acid is weak.* In order to observe the effect of dust upon the potential gradient any form of electroscope furnished with a radium-coated wire to act as a collector will suffice .
A small pocket electroscope , which can be attached to a walking-stick , has been used for making qualitative tests , but for quantitative work the Wulf electrometer is very convenient .
Perhaps a radium-coated wire is not the best form of collector if absolute values are required ; but for comparative tests it is unsurpassable .
On exposing the electroscope , say , on the roadside or in a street , the radium collector rapidly takes up the potential of the air in its neighbourhood , and the leaf remains steady for some little time ; but if , however , a cloud of dust is raised by any means the potential will alter , increasing or diminishing , or even reversing in sign , according to the nature of the dust raised .
It has been mentioned that the charge upon the dust is opposite in sign to that upon the air , and this has been seen in a most striking fashion .
During a strong South African dust-storm it was observed that an electroscope placed near to a window occasionally showed a divergence of its gold leaves which at first was * ' Phil. Mag. , ' April , 1913 .
Disturbance of the Normal Atmospheric Potential Gradie7it .
573 attributed to air currents , but the effect was really due to the air inside the room becoming charged , as the following experiment shows .
The window was raised for some distance and a piece of wood fitted in to fill up the gap .
A hole about 20 cm .
in diameter was made in the wood and a tin tube fitted in , but well insulated by means of several layers of paraffined paper ; the end of the tube projecting into the room was covered with a piece of wire gauze and several layers of fine chiffon .
The dust blown in through the tube charged it so strongly with positive electricity that sparks could be obtained from it , and at the same time charged up the air of the room* with negative to such an extent that an electroscope furnished ' with a radium collector indicated a charge in any part of the room , in some parts sending out the leaf to a right angle .
In taking observations in Europe one is generally confined to the dust which can be raised by the wind or by the passing of motor cars , etc. , over roads .
The surface of the country is not dry enough , as a rule , to permit of a cloud of dust being raised from the ground by the wind ; but in some instances , ploughing after harvest has yielded sufficient dust to make its influence felt .
Galloping horses on the sea shore , well above high-water mark , raise a sufficient cloud of dust to reverse the positive potential .
Observations have been taken at many places in Europe , in cities and along country roads , and the changes in the potential qualitatively observed .
The effect of a dust composed entirely of siliceous materials , such as sand , weathered granite , basalt , fine clay , etc. , is to diminish or , in extreme cases , to reverse the positive potential , whilst that of a calcareous material is to increase the positive potential .
If there is a mixture of materials there is generally an increase of the positive potential ; and on all old roads there is , in addition to the stony material , a large amount of organic matter , so that the general effect of dust is to cause the potential to increase .
The actual change in the value of the gradient may be very large , say , from 100 to 500 volts per metre ; the effect is , however , transient , and disappears-with the settling of the dust .
Upon freshly repaired sandy roads in Cambridgeshire and the New Forest , passing motor cars raised clouds of dust which gave a negative potential , but after a few days ' use , sufficient organic matter accumulated to cause the normal positive potential to be increased .
Since most roads are " metalled " with siliceous materials , the charge given to the air might have been expected to be negative , * but certainly on old roads the surface dust is a complex material , and what applies to pure * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 90 ( 1914 ) .
574 Mr. W. A. D. Rudge .
On Sources silica , etc. , in the laboratory does not do so to the mixture , and probably the much larger scale of the experiment led to different results .
Specimens of road dust were collected from those places where observations had been made of the variations of the potential during the raising of dust clouds , either by the wind , or more generally by the passing of cars , and these were tested in the laboratory by the method already described , * which briefly is that a cloud of dust raised by a small bellows is projected against an insulated wire gauze screen connected to an electroscope , and the charge upon the latter tested .
The air accompanying the dust is carried on , and its charge indicated by a radium collector attached to another electroscope .
The charges thus obtained were found to be opposite in sign .
The charge upon the air is the most satisfactory one to deal with , as it persists for a long time .
Testing in this way it was found that all specimens of dust gave rise to a charge upon the air , the magnitude of the charge varying with the degree of fineness , and also with its nature , whilst the sign of the charge depended upon the chemical composition .
Merely shaking a duster is quite sufficient to produce an easily measurable change , so that a very small amount of material is quite sufficient to produce a measurable charge in a room .
The curve ( fig. 2 ) shows how the presence of dust disturbs the normal gradient .
The normal curve was obtained at some distance away from the +500 +300 +200 +IOO o Hours ip.m .
Fig. 2 .
town , the other was taken on Hills Road , Cambridge .
Here every passing vehicle which raises dust makes its presence felt .
Only a few of the points of change of potential are shown on the diagram , for even the passage of a * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 90 ( 1914 ) .
Disturbance of the Normal Atmospheric Potential Gradient .
575 bicycle along a dusty road produces some disturbance .
The curve is a little diagrammatic , as it is the result of eye observations , but it well represents the extraordinary fluctuations due to the dust .
Many hundreds of observations have been taken in England and on the Continent , in addition to those mentioned in Africa , and some of these , which are typical of the rest , are given in Table I , which refers to road dusts obtained from Glamorgan .
Through the kindness of the County Surveyor , Mr. G. A. Phillips , I have been able to make an interesting set of observations on the dust from various roads in his district .
The materials used are of many kinds , and of known origin .
They may roughly be divided into siliceous and calcareous , and the electrification obtained with the clean dust was generally of the sign which might have been predicted from the nature of the material .
The material from the roads varied very much in the degree of fineness , and also in the amount of organic matter present .
Some of the siliceous specimens contained calcium carbonate in measurable amount .
The limestones naturally were nearly all calcium carbonate , but the other samples probably contained the carbonate as an accidental contamination .
In several instances given in the Table it is seen that granitic and basaltic dusts give positive charges to the air instead of negative , as would have been anticipated from the nature of the material , but this was due to the dust really being composed of a mixture , as the following experiments show .
A portion of the basaltic dust from the Ely and Cowbridge road was treated with excess of HC1 , and the insoluble residue washed and dried .
This residue on spraying in the usual manner gave a \#151 ; charge to air and + to gauze , showing \#166 ; 1,000 yds .
that the opposite effect obtained with the untreated dust was due to the presence of calcium carbonate .
A similar result was obtained with granite dust containing organic matter after the ' latter had been burnt off , so that it Mr. W. A. D. Rudge .
On Sources of may be reasonably inferred that a purely siliceous dust would always give rise to a negative charge in the air .
Table I. Origin of material .
Charge given to air by wind , etc. Laboratory test .
Nature and appearance .
Charge on air .
Charge on gauze .
G-ranite .
Grey coarse dust , with little organic matter \#151 ; 1 + Limestone .
White fine powder , with little organic matter + : .
' ; . !
+ Weak Very weak Limestone .
Light grey fine dust + , Weak Weak Basalt .
Coarse dust , with little organic matter s** I Strong .
Fair Limestone .
Very fine dust , with much organic matter - \#166 ; ; #- .
' .
: ' Strong Fair Basalt .
Grey coarse powder - Very strong + Strong Granite .
Light-grey fine dust - .
Very strong + Very strong Limestone .
Pink fine dust , with some organic matter \#166 ; \#166 ; + \#166 ; r : ~ \#166 ; 7 ; Fair Weak and uncertain Granite .
Dark fine dust , with much organic matter + Fair + Fair Granite .
Very fine dust , with lot of carbonate + Very weak 0 Limestone .
Fine grey dust + After some time Weak Limestone .
Fine dust , with little organic matter + + Very strong Fair Granite .
Coarse grey .
no organic matter - Very strong + Strong Basalt .
Dark grey coarse powder ; small organic matter - Very strong + Very strong Limestone .
Fine dust + + Strong Weak Basalt .
Dark grey coarse dust - Fair + Strong Basalt .
Dark grey powder , with carbonate and organic matter Fair + Fair Olchfa Bridge ... ... . .
Mafan Road ... ... ... ... Neath Road ... ... ... ... Cowbridge Road ... ... . .
Redhall and Nottage Road ----Road ... ... ... ... .
Neath to Pontwhally Road Gwangleda Bridge ... ... Boat and Nantgeon Road Neath and Port Talbot Road Beaufort and Pontardulais Road Port Talbot Road Maesgwyn ... ... Pontypridd ... ... .
Penwyll Road ... ... . .
" Coopers ' Arms " Bosd , fourth mile from Cardiff Disturbance of the Normal Atmospheric Potential Gradient .
577 Table II\#151 ; continued .
Nature and appearance .
Charge given to air by wind , etc. Laboratory test .
Origin of material .
Charge on air .
Charge on gauze .
Llandaff Road Limestone .
Very fine dust + + Fair Weak Ely and Cowbridge Road , Basalt .
Grey coarse dust , + \#151 ; + fifth mile from Cardiff with organic matter Weak Very weak Ely and Cowbridge Road , ninth mile from Cardiff Limestone .
G-rey dust , with much organic matter + + Weak Near Pyll Station Limestone .
Fine light dust + + Very strong Fair 2 .
Manufacturing Operations , etc. Several Portland cement works are situated near Cambridge and these have a very marked influence upon the potential gradient in their neighbourhood .
The gradient is enormously increased by the action of two factors : ( 1 ) steam escaping from the engine , ( 2 ) the cloud of cement dust which envelops the works .
Both steam and cement dust give to the atmosphere a positive charge and it does not seem possible to determine the amount due to each cause , but the local effect of the two together is very great .
The " Norman " Cement Works are about 1| miles from the town and can be approached in one or two directions almost free from trees .
A calm day after rain is a satisfactory one for making a set of determinations .
Using a Wulf electrometer , readings were taken at different distances from the works until the potential indicated was the same as the average previously found for the neighbourhood .
The distance was measured by pacing , and the electrometer had to be supported at different distances above the ground in order to meet the varying potential gradient .
This was really very unsatisfactory , as the observer 's body exerted a considerable influence , but a better arrangement could not readily be devised because the whole series of observations must be taken during a short interval of time when the normal potential gradient is steady .
Table II gives the record of the results obtained on February 12 , 1913 .
Measurements were taken both going to and returning from the works , the whole time taken being about an hour .
A rapid tour round Cambridge in a motor car just before and after the determination gave the average value for the potential gradient as about 75 volts per metre .
At other cement works in the neighbourhood the same effect was seen , and at Pretoria the same Mr. W. A. D. Rudge .
On Sources of Table II .
Distance from works .
Potential gradient .
paces .
Tolts per metre .
100 S80 150 540 200 420 300 360 400 300 500 250 600 210 700 180 800 130 900 90 1000 75 1100 70 1200 70 thing had been previously observed .
Portland cement is a mixture of many things , but is composed mainly of silicates , and the increase of the positive potential produced by its agency is thus the same as that derived from the mixture of materials composing road dust .
Inside the factory itself the gradient was so high that it could not be found with the electrometer used .
The author has shown* the great influence of the fine siliceous dust blown from the mine refuse heaps in the neighbourhood of Johannesburg .
This refuse consists almost entirely of very finely divided quartz , and when a wind is blowing large clouds of it are raised , with the result that the positive potential is completely reversed and a negative value given , which can be detected for a distance of nearly a mile away from the mines in the direction in which the wind is blowing , but for a much shorter distance in the other direction .
The unloading of coal from a truck in a railway yard , or even the emptying of sacks in the cellar , gives rise to a positive charge upon the air .
Some recent observations taken in coal mines show that considerable charges arise during the hewing of the coal if any quantity of dust is produced .
The same thing is seen inside a flour mill , and no doubt every industry which results in the formation of a cloud of dust gives rise to some change in the atmospheric charge .
Even ordinary domestic operations , such as sweeping a carpet or shaking a duster , produce a local influence .
The air of a room after sweeping is usually charged positively .
Shaking a tree , the blossoms of which are laden with pollen , produces an increase of the positive charge .
This was very noticeable in the case of the bog myrtle and also * 'Trans .
Roy .
Soc. South Africa , ' vol. 2 ( 1912 ) .
Disturbance of the Normal Atmospheric Potential Gradient .
579 with the yew .
Kahler* has noted the same thing from the pine trees in the neighbourhood of Potsdam .
3 .
Influence of Steam .
Since the time when Armstrong devised his hydro-electric machine , it has been generally known that the escape of steam under pressure was accompanied by strong electrification , but as far as I know no one\#151 ; with the exception of Lord Kelvin , with whose workf I have recently become acquainted\#151 ; has called attention to the great increase in the normal atmospheric potential gradient produced by steam escaping from ordinary engines .
The author 's attention was first called to the influence of steam when taking observations on the potential gradient at the top of Van Keenan 's Pass , between the Orange Free State and Natal .
It was then noted that after a train had passed a few hundred feet away a considerable rise in the positive potential occurred , and this increase persisted for some time after the disappearance of the steam .
Further observations taken at many places , even in the heart of the City of London , have confirmed this .
The change in the potential was determined in the usual way with an electroscope furnished with a radium collector .
Kecently some work has been done at Cambridge on the influence exerted by the clouds of steam emitted by locomotive engines , the details of which are given below .
The country round Cambridge is flat , and many spots may be chosen near to the railway where there are few trees to screen the effects and sufficiently far from roads to be out of the range of the dust influence .
Observations were taken at stations at different distances from the line , and the magnitude of the potential gradient noted after the passage of a train under steam .
The mere passing of a train had no influence , unless as sometimes happened in very dry weather ' a lot of dust was raised ; for the potential to be largely increased it was necessary for steam to be escaping either in the usual way from the funnel , or even by blowing off from the safety valve .
As already noted the charge persisted after the cloud of steam had disappeared , so that if the distance of the observing station from the line was sufficient , a train might be out of sight before the change in the potential would be recorded .
A convenient station was situated in a field off the Hills Road just outside Cambridge .
The observations were made with a Wulf electrometer furnished with a radium collector , and records were made of the potential indicated by that * 'Phys .
Zeit .
, ' vol. 13 , p. 1216 .
+ ' Papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' S 397 .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; A. 580 Mr. W. A. D. Budge .
On Sources of instrument at definite intervals of time .
The plan given in fig. 4 shows the relative position of the railway and the observing station .
The trains from Cambridge became visible at A and passed out of sight at B , and Table IY +700 -5 +280 80 XOO X Time in seconds Fig. 4 .
shows that the influence of the steam was not manifested until the train had passed beyond the latter point .
The position E was about 250 yards from the line .
The recording was continued until the potential had fallen to its initial value , or until the passing of a second train produced another disturbance .
The effect was thus noticeable for about six minutes after the passing of the trains .
Table III gives a typical record .
The potentials are given in terms of the scale reading of the electrometer , and , when the threads were beyond the field of view , the gradient must have been over 700 volts per metre .
The normal value of the gradient was about 120 volts per metre .
The curves ( fig. 4 ) show how the magnitude of the potential varies with the class of train ; the one giving the greatest volume of steam produces the greatest change in the potential .
Curve No. 1 is a slow " stopping " train , No. 2 a goods train , and No. 3 a heavy " express .
" The last curve is displaced 25 seconds to the right for clearness .
The time elapsing before the change in the potential due to the steam reached the recording instrument depended to some extent upon the direction and strength of the wind .
In practically calm weather the disturbance extended uniformly a considerable distance from the place where the steam was emitted , but it was carried a greater Disturbance of the Normal Atmospheric Potential Gradient .
581 Table III.\#151 ; July 12 , Hills Eoad Station .
Wind S.W. Train to London .
Heavy Express .
Time .
Eeading .
sec. 0 18 Train at A. 15 18 " o. 30 19 " B. 45 20 60 18 90 20 120 25 130 30 135 60 140 80 200 230 \#151 ; 1 Too great to be measured by J electrometer .
260 80 2*0 70 280 62 300 50 310 35 315 30 330 24 360 22 400 21 distance with the wind .
Some records were taken simultaneously on both sides of the line when the wind was blowing from south-west at an angle across it .
The electrometers were placed about 150 yards from the line .
Table IV gives the results , and the effect of wind is very distinctly shown .
Table IV.\#151 ; Heavy Express Train .
North station .
South station .
Time .
Deflection .
Time .
Deflection .
sec. divisions .
sec. divisions .
0 19 0 20 15 21 15 22 30 35 30 22 45 65 45 20 60 80 60 36 75 \#151 ; 75 45 90 \#151 ; 90 56 105 80 105 30 120 62 120 24 135 38 135 20 150 25 150 20 165 22 165 20 180 20 180 20 582 Disturbance of the Normal Atmospheric Potential .
The distance from the line to which the influence of the steam extends may , in certain cases with the wind , reach a distance of nearly a mile , and the time taken before the electrometer indicates any change may be from four to five minutes .
The curve ( fig. 5 ) gives the results obtained at a distance of nearly 1000 yards , the potential changing from 70 volts per metre to about 200 .
+210 +140 + 70 \#163 ; / / 1 IOO 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 Time in seconds a-fber brain passed Fig. 5 .
The influence of steam may be detected on a moving train .
When a cloud of steam is trailing behind , an electroscope , furnished with a radium collector , will indicate a strong charge even inside the carriage , if the window is open .
Inside a tunnel a very strong charge can be detected , sufficient to send the gold leaf out at right angles to its support .
Inside a boiler-house the same thing is seen if the steam is escaping under pressure , and here , too , the charge persists in the air long after the cloud has disappeared .
My acknowledgments are due to Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for the use of the Cavendish Laboratory , where a portion of the work was carried out .
Summary .
1 .
From these observations , the conclusion may be drawn that sudden variations of the atmospheric potential gradient may be due to local circumstances .
2 .
The presence of dust in the atmosphere has the effect of altering the potential gradient , sometimes increasing sometimes diminishing the positive value .
The dust from well used old roads practically always increases the positive potential .
3 .
Manufacturing operations which result in the production of dust disturb locally the potential gradient .
4 .
The presence of clouds of steam increases the positive potential , and the effect persists for some time after the steam has condensed .

