1903 .
] The Emanations of Radium .
" The Emanations of Radium .
" By Sir William Ckookes , F.R.S. Received March 17 , \#151 ; Read March 19 , 1903 .
A solution of almost pure radium nitrate which had been used for spectrographic work , was evaporated to dryness in a dish , and the crystalline residue examined in a dark room .
It was feebly luminous .
A screen of platinocyanide of barium brought near the residue glowed with a green light , the intensity varying with the distance separating them .
The phosphorescence disappeared as soon as the screen was removed from the influence of the radium .
A screen of Sidot 's hexagonal blende ( zinc sulphide ) , said to be useful for detecting polonium radiations , was almost as luminous as the platinocyanide screen in presence of radium , but there was more residual phosphorescence , lasting from a few minutes to half an hour or more according to the strength and duration of the initial excitement .
The persistence of radio-activity on glass vessels which have contained radium is remarkable .
Filters , beakers , and dishes used in the laboratory for operations with radium , after having been washed in the usual way , remain radio-active ; a piece of blende screen held inside the beaker or other vessel immediately glowing with the presence of radium .
The blende screen is sensitive to mechanical shocks .
A tap with the tip of a penknife will produce a sudden spark of light , and a scratch with the blade will show itself as an evanescent luminous line .
A diamond crystal brought near the radium nitrate glowed with a pale bluish-green light , as it would in a " Radiant Matter " tube under the influence of cathodic bombardment .
On removing the diamond from the radium it ceased to glow , but , when laid on the sensitive screen , it produced phosphorescence beneath , which lasted some minutes .
During these manipulations the diamond accidentally touched the radium nitrate in the dish , and thus a few imperceptible grains of the radium salt got on to the zinc sulphide screen .
The surface was immediately dotted about with brilliant specks of green light , some being a millimetre or more across , although the inducing particles were too small to be detected on the white screen when examined by daylight .
In a dark room , under a microscope with a f-inch objective , each luminous spot is seen to have a dull centre surrounded by a luminous halo extending for some distance around .
The dark centre itself appears to shoot out light at intervals in different directions .
Outside the halo , the dark surface of the screen scintillates with sparks Sir W. Crookes .
[ Mar. 17 , of light .
No two flashes succeed one another on the same spot , but are scattered over the surface , coming and going instantaneously , no movement of translation being seen .
The scintillations are somewhat better seen with a pocket lens magnifying about 20 diameters .
They are less visible on the barium platinocyanide than on the zinc sulphide screen .
A powerful electro-magnet has no apparent effect on the scintillations , which appear quite unaffected when the current is made or broken , the screen being close to the poles and arranged axially or equatorially .
A solid piece of radium nitrate is slowly brought near the screen .
The general phosphorescence of the screen as visible to the naked eye varies according to the distance of the radium from it .
On now examining the surface with the pocket lens , the radium being far off and the screen faintly luminous , the scintillating spots are sparsely scattered over the surface .
On bringing the radium nearer the screen the scintillations become more numerous and brighter , until when close together the flashes follow each other so quickly that the surface looks like a turbulent luminous sea .
When the scintillating points are few there is no residual phosphorescence to be seen , and the sparks succeeding each other appear like stars on a black sky .
When , however , the bombardment exceeds a certain intensity , the residual phosphorescent glow spreads over the screen , without , however , interfering with the scintillations .
If the end of a platinum wire which has been dipped in a solution of radium nitrate and dried is brought near the screen , the scintillations become very numerous and energetic , and cease immediately the wire is removed .
If , however , the end of the wire touches the screen , a luminous spot is produced , which then becomes a centre of activity , and the screen remains alive with scintillations in the neighbourhood of the spot for many weeks afterwards .
" Polonium " basic nitrate produces a similar effect on the screen , but the scintillations are not so numerous .
Microscopic glass , very thin aluminium foil , and thin mica do not stop the general luminosity of the screen from the X-rays , but arrest the scintillations .
I could detect no variation in the scintillations when a rapid blast of air was blown between the screen and the radium salt .
A beam of X-rays from an active tube was passed through a hole in a lead plate on to a blende screen .
A luminous spot was produced on the screen , but I could detect no scintillations , only a smooth uniform phosphorescence .
A piece of radium salt brought near gave the scintillations as usual , superposed on the fainter phosphorescence caused by the X-rays , and they were not interfered with in any degree by the presence of X-rays falling on the same spot .
During these experiments the fingers soon become soiled with radium , The Emanations of Radium .
1903 .
] and produce phosphorescence when brought near the screen .
On turning the lens to the , apparently , uniformly lighted edge of the screen close to the finger , the scintillations are seen to be closer and more numerous ; what to the naked eye appears like a uniform " milky way , " under the lens is a multitude of stellar points , flashing over the Avhole surface .
A clean finger does not show any effect , but a touch with a soiled finger is sufficient to confer on it the property .
Washing the fingers stops their action .
It was of interest to see if rarefying the air would have any effect on the scintillations .
A blende screen was fixed near a flat glass window in a vacuum tube , and a piece of radium salt was attached to an iron rocker , so that the movement of an outside magnet would either bring the radium opposite the screen or draw it away altogether .
A microscope gave a good image of the surface of the screen , and in a dark room the scintillations were well seen .
No particular difference was observed in a high vacuum ; indeed , if anything , the sparks appeared a trifle brighter and sharper in air than in vacuo .
A duplicate apparatus in air was put close to the one in the vacuum tube , so that the eye could pass rapidly from one to the other , and it was so adjusted that the scintillations were about equal when each was in air .
The vacuum apparatus was now exhausted to a very high point , and the appearance on each screen was noticed .
Here again I thought the sparks in the vacuum were not quite so bright as in air , and on breaking the capillary tube of the pump , and observing as the air entered , the same impression was left on my mind ; but the differences , if any , are very minute , and are scarcely greater than might arise from errors of observation .
It is difficult to form an estimate of the number of flashes of light per second .
But with the radium at about 5 cm .
off the screen they are barely detectable , not being more than one or two per second .
As the distance of the radium diminishes the flashes become more frequent , until at 1 or 2 cm .
they are too numerous to count .
[ Added March 18.\#151 ; On bringing alternately a Sidot 's blende screen and one of barium platinocyanide , face downwards , near a dish of " polonium " sub-nitrate , each became luminous , the blende screen being very little brighter of the two .
On testing the two screens over a crucible containing dry radium nitrate , both glowed ; in this case the blende screen being much the brighter .
Examined with a lens , the light of the blende screen was seen to consist of a mass of scintillations , while that of the platinocyanide screen was a uniform glow , on which the scintillations were much less apparent .
The screens were now turned face upwards so that emanations from the active bodies would have to pass through the thickness of card before reaching the sensitive surface .
Placed over the " polonium " 408 The Emanations of Radium .
[ Mar 17 , neither screen showed any light .
Over the radium the platino-cyanide screen showed a very luminous disc , corresponding with the opening of the crucible , but the blende disc remained quite dark .
It therefore appears that practically the whole of the luminosity on the blende screen , whether due to radium or " polonium , " is occasioned by emanations which will not penetrate card .
These are the emanations which cause the scintillations , and the reason why they are distinct on the blende and feeble on the platinocyanide screen , is that with the latter the sparks are seen -on a luminous ground of general phosphorescence which renders the eye less able to see the scintillations .
Considering how coarse-grained the structure of matter must be to particles forming the emanations from radium , I cannot imagine that their relative penetrative powers depend on difference of size .
I attribute the arrest of the scintillating particles to their electrical character , and to the ready way in which they are attracted by the coarser atoms or molecules of matter .
I have shown that radium emanations cohere to almost everything with which they come into contact .
Bismuth , * lead , platinum , thorium , uranium , elements of high atomic weight and density , possess this attraction in a high degree , and only lose the emanations very slowly , giving rise to what is known as " induced radio-activity .
" The emanations so absorbed from radium by bismuth , platinum , and probably other bodies , retain the property of producing scintillations on a blende screen , and are non-pe netrating .
] It seems probable that in these phenomena we are actually witnessing the bombardment of the screen by the electrons !
hurled off by radium with a velocity of the order of that of light ; each scintillation rendering visible the impact of an electron on the screen .
Although , at present , I have not been able to form even a rough approximation to the number of electrons hitting the screen in a given time , it is evident that this is not of an order of magnitude inconceivably great .
Each electron is rendered apparent only by the enormous extent of lateral disturbance produced by its impact on the sensitive surface , just as individual drops of rain falling on a still pool are not seen as such , but by reason of the splash they make on impact , and the ripples and waves they produce in ever-widening circles .
* I have been quite unable to detect any lines but those of bismuth ( and of known impurities ) in the spectrum of the strongest and most active " polonium " salt I have been able to procure .
f Radiant matter , satellites , corpuscles , nuclei ; whatever they are , they act like material masses .

