Experimental Researches : Heart of the Frog .
May 13 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Allbutt , Thomas Clifford , M.A. , M.D. , F.L.S. Attfield , Prof. John , Ph. D. , F.C.S. Blanford , Henry Francis , F.G.S. Dallinger , Rev. William Henry .
Dyer , William Turner Thiselton , M.A. , F.L.S. Godwin-Austen , Lieut.-Col. Henry Haversham .
Graves , The Right Rev. Charles , D.D. , Bishop of Limerick .
Hughes , Prof. David Edward .
Jeffery , Henry M. , M.A. M'Coy , Prof. Frederick , F.G.S. Moulton , J. Fletcher , M.A. Niven , Prof. Charles , M.A. , F.R.A.S. Rae , John , LL. D. Reynolds , Prof. J. Emerson , M.D. Tilden , William A. , D.Sc .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Notice of further Experimental Researches on the Time-relations of the Excitatory Process , in the Ventricle of the Heart of the Frog .
" By J. Burdon-Sanderson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Physiology , University College , and F. J M. Page'B.Sc .
, F.C.S. Received March 31 , 1880 .
In a previous paper ( " Proceedings , " vol. xxvii , p. 410 ) we communicated experimental results relating to the phenomena which present themselves in the ventricle of the heart of the frog , when mechanically or electrically excited .
Our present purpose is to report what has been done during the past winter towards the further elucidation of the subject .
By the term " excitatory state " we mean , as in our former communication , nothing more than the condition which is produced in any excitable structure ( whether in plants or animals ) by excitation .
So far as it has been as yet investigated , this state is characterised ( 1 ) by the appearance of electromotive properties in the .excited part , which did not exist before excitation , and cease to vol. xxx .
2 E 374 Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson and F. J. M. Page .
[ May lg exist as soon as its effect is over ; ( 2 ) by diminished excitabilit ( showing itself in the suspension or diminution of the power which the structure before possessed of responding to a second exeita tion ) ; ( 3 ) by the fact that it is propagated from the part first excitei to contiguous parts at a rate which is different in different structures and in the same structure at different temperatures .
Hitherto th relations of these three facts have been chiefly studied in the excitabl tissues of the higher animals .
Our investigations lead us to conclud that they are equally characteristic of the excitatory state in plants We attach great importance to them , as being the only outward ano visible signs by which the hidden process of excitation constantly reveals itself .
For those more obvious changes which , in the con tractile structures , follow excitation , are wanting in those which art merely excitable , and thereby lose their value as characteristics .
It was from the first apparent that the physiological relations of the three kinds of phenomena which admitted of investigation , viz. , thost : of electrical change , of diminished excitability , and of propagation could only be learnt by the use of exact methods for the determination of the order of occurrence and duration , of the time-relations o ' each .
For this purpose the means were then wanting ; the first stej ; was to contrive and construct the instrument , of which the description has just been given .
The rheotome was completed in April , 1879 .
since which time the observations now communicated have been made .
Shortly after the communication of our last experiments , Professor Engelmann made a valuable addition to the researches* previously published by him on the electrical phenomena of the excitatory process in the ventricle of the heart of the frog .
The most important of his results and conclusions are as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) In 47 out of 78 preparations , investigated with the aid oi Bernstein 's rheotome , it was found that , when the surface of the separated ventricle ( " ventricle-apex preparation " ) was excited by the passage of a single induction shock between platinum electrodes in contact with its surface and not more than a millimeter apart , the surface being led off , as in our experiments , by two contacts at unequal distances from the seat of excitation , the nearest of the two led-off surfaces ( 2 millims. distant ) , became first negative , then positive to the other ( 5 millims. distant ) .
Thus the variation assumed the character of a " Doppelschwankung , " i.e. , it consisted of two phases of opposite signs .
In the remaining 31 instances , all that was observed was that the nearer contact became at once negative , and that its negativity gradually subsided .
( 2 ) In 33 experiments in which the same method was employed , the means of the deflections of the galvanometer , corresponding to the first four-tenths of a second after * " TJeber das electrisehe Yerhalten des thatigen Herzens , " " Pfliiger 's Archir , vol. xvii , p. 68 .
1880 .
] Experimental Researches : Heart of the hrog .
excitation , were recorded graphically in a curve of which the abscissae express the times , the ordinates the deflections .
This curve shows that , in the 33 preparations , the first phase began 0"'06 after excitation , and rapidly attained its maximum ; that the reversal of sign took place at 0"'26 , the contacts becoming finally equipotential at 0"'5 .
In [ 0 similar experiments , in which the nearest contact was only 1 millim. from the seat of excitation , the interval of time between the excitation and the beginning of the variation was much shorter .
( 3 ) The phenomenon of the " Doppelschwankung " is understood by Bngelmann to mean that " each part of the muscular substance of the ventricle becomes , for a moment during excitation , negatively electromotive ( voruhergehend negativ sam ) , and that this negativity is propagated from the seat of excitation in all directions .
" The rate of propagation was estimated as probably 50 millims. per second .
It is to be noticed that the researches of Engelmann refer exclusively to the first half-second after excitation , and that he has taken no account of the phenomena which occur later ; and , further , that his observations are , as regards this first period , in the main in accordance with the statements contained in our former paper .
His interpretation of them is however different , for phenomena to which we apply the term initial are regarded by him as constituting the whole process .
1 .
Time-relations of the Excitatory Variation in the Uninjured Heart .
\#151 ; By the term excitatory variation we mean the succession of electrical changes which manifest themselves galvanometrically as the result of excitation , when the surface of the ventricle is led off at two points .
The method of observing these changes is as follows:\#151 ; The preparation rests on the carefully lacquered surface of the upper end of a brass box of cylindrical form , the axis of which is vertical .
Through this box water flows at 10 ' C. Of the two contacts by which the ventricle is led off ' , one ( m ) is close to the apex , the other ( / ) near the base , on the ventral aspect .
The two platinum wire electrodes , by which the induction shocks pass for excitation , are insulated up to their tips , which are 1 millim. apart .
They are in contact with the surface of the ventricle at the apex .
The arrangement of the galvano- Fig. 1 .
o i ; 2 376 Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson and F. J. M. Page .
[ May 13 , metric circuit is shown in the woodcut .
When the keys K , K2 K3 , and K5 are open , and the switch w is thrown over to the left , as represented , and the rheotome closed , any current coming from m to passes through the compensator ( C ) , the rheotome ( R ) , and the galvanometer ( Gr ) .
Before making each observation , K is closed , and the slider of the compensator moved until the needle of the galvanometer is at zero : this having been done , K is opened and the rheotome set in motion , when it is found that its revolutions are without effect on the galvanometer .
The binding screws connected with the outer pools of the rheotome are connected with the key h , from one of the blocks of which a wire passes through the primary coil of the induction apparatus , and then through a second apparatus for the purpose of short-circuiting thei closing induction currents , to one pole of a Grove 's battery of two ) cells , the other wire leading to the opposite pole .
The terminals of the .
secondary coil of the induction apparatus are connected with the exciting electrodes in such a way that the rotations of the rheotome , each of which makes and breaks the primary current of the induction apparatus , are without effect on the preparation , excepting when the key h ' is opened for the purpose of making an observation .
The rate of revolution of the rheotome which is best adapted for the purpose is ^ revolution per second .
The period to be investigated nsually lasts two seconds after each excitation .
This period is conveniently divided into 20 periods of 0"T each .
The " closing time " of the rheotome , i.e. , the time during which it closes the galvano-metric circuit each revolution , is 0"'l .
As the purpose of the observation is to investigate the condition of the led-off surfaces during each successive period , twenty observations must be made , for each of which the rheotome must be set , so that its closing time coincides with one of these 0 , / -l periods .
This is effected with the aid of a table , one column of which shows the periods , the other the reading of the rheotome scale which corresponds to it .
As each observation requires three-quarters of a minute to make and record it , and must be repeated to ensure accuracy , the investigation of a variation cannot be completed in less than a quarter of an hour .
The following example will serve to illustrate the form which the results assume:\#151 ; Table I. Time after excitation , at which galva-nometric circuit was opened , the period of closure being O"* !
0-1 6'-2 Deflections -42 -3 / / / / / / 0*40*50 0 JO t u \gt ; .6 0 u / / -0*8 0*9 / / / / 0 / / / / 1*2 1 0 / / / / 1*4 1 0 / / / / l-6i 1-7 + 3+30 1-8 + 12 1-92*0 + 1 o 1880 .
] Experimental Researches : Heart of the Frog .
If it is desired to investigate more minutely a part of the variation , as for example , the changes which take place in the first four-tenths of a second , a table is used in which the rheotome readings for twenty periods ending respectively at 0"'02 , 0"'04 , 0"-06 and so on , after excitation , are recorded .
The following table exemplifies the kind of result so obtained , the period of closure being 0''T .
Table II .
j Time after excitation j of opening of galvano- 1 meter circuit * 0 *02 0*04 0-06 0-08 0-10 0-12 0-14 U-16 00 0*20 0-22 0*24 0 '26 0*28 U *30 \amp ; c. Deflections -0 -1 -12 -31 -42 -46 -40 -32 -12 -7 -4 0 0 0 0 \lt ; fec .
These readings show that in the particular preparation investigated ( which may be taken as a representative one ) the state of negativity of the contact m did not last more than 0"a06 , and culminated before a tenth of a second had elapsed after excitation .
Whenever the surface of the ventricle is led off in the way above described , i.e. , by contacts of which one is close to the seat of excitation , the other remote from it , the same results are obtained .
VFe are therefore justified , first , in repeating the statement contained in our last paper , viz. , that the electrical effect of excitation manifests itself in two phases , an initial and a terminal one , which have opposite signs ; and , secondly , in adding to our previous statement , that the initial is separated from the terminal phase , by a relatively prolonged state of equipotentiality of the two contacts .
If we compare this result with that of Professor Engelmann , observed in a similar way , it will be at once seen that although the interpretation may be different , our observations are in accordance with his , so far as they relate to the same period .
The whole of the phenomena recorded by him belong to the beginning of the 1st second .
The beginning of the period of equipotentiality is regarded by him as the end of the excitatory effect .
To us the absence of galvanometric effect during this period , which we designate the isoelectrical interval , is merely the expression of the fact that both contacts are in the same degree of excitation .
2 .
Time-relations of the Variation in the partially warmed Ventricle.\#151 ; The proof that the period of equipotentiality is one of balanced activities , not of quiescence , is readily obtained by subjecting the two led-off surfaces , i.e. , the base and apex of the heart , to different temperatures .
For this purpose the cylindrical support on which the preparation rests is divided into two chambers through which water Hows at different temperatures by a vertical non-conducting septum .
If , then , the ventricle is placed in such a position that its apex rests 378 Dr. J. Burdon-Sandersoii and F. J. M. Page .
[ May \\\ on the cooler surface , and a series of rheotome observations are mack during the 2nd second , it is observed that the deflections of the ter-minal phase are diminished .
In the contrary case they are increased and begin at an earlier period ; so that , at a time at which the surfaces m and / were before isoelectrical , the surface to is now positive to/ .
To produce these effects a difference between the temperatures of the chambers of only 3 ' is sufficient .
That which exists between the led-off surfaces is obviously much less .
If , in the manner described in our previous paper , the surface of the ventricle is temporarily warmed by the passage for a second or two of a voltaic current through a platinum wire fixed in the neighbourhood of one of the contacts\#151 ; say the contact to\#151 ; similar but much more considerable effects are produced , which , when observed with the aid of the rheotome , exhibit the characters shown in the table .
Table III .
Time after excitation , at which the galvanometer circuit was closed 0-2 0-4 0-6 0-8j i'-o 1-2 U U 1*8 U Preliminary observation before warming -30 0 0 0 0 + 5 + 23 + 20 + 5 0 Immediately after warming ... -24 + 17 + 30 + 71 + 95 + 99 + 63 + 9 + 5 . .
0 12 seconds later -25 + 5 + 2 + 9 + 25 + 55 + 52 + 6 + 2 0 24 seconds later -29 0 0 0 + 6 + 14 + 50 + 9 + 2 0 36 seconds later ... 0 0 0 + 2 + 7 + 34 + 14 + 5 0 48 seconds later ... 0 0 0 0 + 5 + 24 + 16 0 0 j The table represents , first , the results of a series of preliminary observations , showing the electrical state of the surfaces during ten successive periods after excitation when their temperatures were equal ; and , secondly , ten series of observations relating to the same ten periods , showing the condition of the same surfaces at various intervals of time after warming .
We learn from it ( 1 ) that in the unexcited state the revolution of the rheotome , i.e. , the closure of the galvanometer circuit , is without effect on the needle , whether the temperatures of the two surfaces are equal or not ; ( 2 ) that in the excited state the needle remains unaffected during the isoelectrical interval only in case the temperatures are equal .
If they are unequal the warmer of the two tends to become positive to the cooler , the electrical difference between them increasing and diminishing with the difference of temperature .
It is to be noticed that this effect manifests itself first at the end of the isoelectrical interval , over which it gradually extends as the difference of temperature increases .
3 .
Time-relations of the Variation in the Injured Ventricle.\#151 ; In our farmer paper we gave an account of the influence of slight injuries of 1880- ] Experimental Researches : Heart of the the surface in modifying the phenomena of the excitatory variation .
The rheotome has enabled ns to add very considerably to our knowledge of these modifications .
The effect of all injuries , whether chemical or mechanical , in so far resemble each other , that in all cases the injuied surface tends during the whole of the excitatory period to become positive to the uninjured .
The degree in which this effect manifests itself varies in the same direction with the degree of injury .
If the injury is very slight , such for example as is produced by touching the surface with a camel-hair pencil , which has been dipped in 10 per cent , solution of salt , and then drained with filter-paper , the change which follows resembles that of slight warming .
The end phase begins earlier , and its deflections are increased .
If it is produced by approaching the platinum loop a little too near , the effect is similar , but begins earlier and lasts longer , so that the isoelectrical interval is much reduced in duration .
If the led-off surface ( m ) is completely destroyed , as by touching it instantaneously with the hot wire after having removed the electrode , and then renewing the contact , it is found that the whole isoelectrical interval is , as it were , filled up .
large positive* deflections being obtained with the rheotome throughout the whole excitatory period , with the exception of the first tenth .
This is well seen in the following table , in which we have given the means of the deflections recorded when the galvanometric circuit was closed for ten successive periods of two-tenths of a second .
By comparing these numbers with those given in Table III , it will be seen that whereas , in the partially warmed ventricle , the temporary effect produced culminates early in the 2nd second , the more lasting effect produced in the injured ventricle reaches its maximum about the middle of the 1st second .
Table IV .
Time after excitation of opening of galvanometer circuit , the period of closure being 0 " *18 8-2 0-4 0-6 8-8 1*0 1*2 1*4 1*6 1*8 ; i-o Deflection + 58 '6 + 85*3 + 82 *3 + 75*0 +68 -3 + 62*3 + 50*0 + 31-8 + 21 *3 + 4*1 4 .
The Period of Diminished Excitabi.\#151 ; Since the researches of M. Marey , " j^ in 1876 , it has been known that the excitability of the ventricle is diminished during the period of systole , Marey showed that if the ventricle is excited by an induction shock of just sufficient strength to evoke a response , the excitation is followed by a period of * Whenever the words " positive " or negative " are used absolutely , the state of m in relation toy is meant .
t Marey , " Des Excitations Artificielles du Coeur .
" " Physiol. Experimental , " II , 1876 , p. 85 .
.380 Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson and F. J. M. Page .
[ May 13 diminished excitability , during which it will not respond to a shock o the same intensity .
This he termed the " refractory period ; " h , further found that if the induction shocks were strengthened .
second response could be obtained after a shorter interval , but tha'l in this case the interval between excitation and response v , m increased .
For the purpose of obtaining information as to the time-relations ol these phenomena , we adopt the following method:\#151 ; For one of the wires leading from the battery to the primary coil of the du Bois induction apparatus , two are substituted , of which one passes through the central , the other through the peripheral pools of the rheotome .
The primary circuit is thereby closed , and immediately afterwards opened twice in each revolution ; the intervals between the two excitations can be varied at will .
The closing shocks being cut off in the way before mentioned , the rheotome is set so that the two opening shocks follow each other at an interval of two seconds .
If the ventricle is at 10 C. , and the distance of the secondary from the primary coil such that the excitation is just sufficiently strong to produce a contraction , it is usually followed by a second .
If the interval between the two excitations is shortened by the tenth of a second , the second excitation is fruitless .
If now the temperature of the preparation is increased by a single degree , a response occurs which in its turn is abolished by taking another tenth off the time interval , and so on .
Proceeding ' in this way we obtain the clearest possible demonstration of two facts , namely , ( 1 ) that the duration of the period of diminished excitability agrees pretty closely with that of electrical activity , and ( 2 ) that it is similarly affected by changes of temperature .
5 .
j Rate of Propagation of the Excitatory Wave.\#151 ; It has already been stated that the rate of propagation of the " Beizwelle , " i.e. , of the excitatory electrical disturbance , was estimated by Engelmann to be 50 millims. per second .
His observations , indeed , give a less rate than this , but for good reasons , which he has stated , he thinks that they require correction .
We have been able by the following method to show that the estimate is considerably below the mark .
The heart is led off as usual at the base ( / ) and near the apex ( m ) , and excited at the apex ( x ) , and care is taken that the contacts x , and/ are in the same straight line .
A third non-polarisable electrode is in contact with the surface at m between rn and / and 4 millims. from m.*The time after excitation , at which the first effect , the first negative deflection is observed , is determined at m and m ' , by rheotome observations , in which the galvanometer circuit passes through m and m alternately ( for which purpose a switch is used ) .
* These measurements could not have been carried out had we not possessed a few gigantic specimens of 22 .
esculenta , from the Platten See in Hungary .
These we owed to the kindness of Professor Gioltz .
1880 .
] Experimental Researches Heart of the Frog .
381 Two parallel series of results are obtained , which when set off as ordinates on the same time-axis exhibit the characters shown in the figure .
Our results show that in a fresh preparation at 12 , the excitatory wave is propagated at a rate of about 130 millims. per second .
It will be noticed that the rapidity with which the electromotive force of the initial phase attains its maximum , renders it possible to make this observation writh great exactitude .
I ig .
2 .
The figures above the line denote degrees of the scale of the rheotome ; t ose below , lOOths of a second measured from the moment of excitation ; those m the vertical column degrees of the scale of the galvanometer .
The ascending line to the left shows the deflections observed when the galvanometer circuit was opene\lt ; at 38 , 40 , 42 , and so on of the scale of the rheotome , the preparation being led oft at m and f.The similar line to the right shows the corresponding deflections at 50 , 52 , and so on , when m ' was substituted for m and the excitation wave had 4 mil mis .
further to go .
The records represent the means of two observations taken as soon as possible after each other .
It is reckoned that in these instances the 4 millims. were accomplished in the time corresponding to 11 divisions of the rheotome scale , i.e. , in 0'032 second .
The facts which , have been stated , in the preceding paragraphs are consistent with , the following theories:\#151 ; 1 .
Every excited part is negative to every unexcited part , so long as the state of excitation lasts .
2 .
The local duration Bauer , Engelmann ) of the excitatory state , the time it lasts in each structural element , is measured by the time-interval between the beginning of the initial and .
the beginning of the terminal phase of the variation .
As regards the second of these propositions , we are in disagreement with Professor Engelmann , who attributes to the excitatory process in the ventricle of the frog 's heart a duration of only two-tenths of a second .
We conclude , from our own observations , that its duration is nearly two seconds at the temperature at 382 Experimental Researches Heart of the Frog .
[ May 13 which most of our experiments were made , namely , at 10 ' or 12 ' C T-his conclusion is , indeed , the only one which the facts admit of for , inasmuch as the total duration of the variation is over two seconds , and the time occupied in the propagation of the excitatory wave from apex to base is one-twentieth of a second at most , it is clear that it must last , at the part furthest from the seat of excitation as long as 1"'9 .
When both contacts are at the same temperature , and in all other respects under the same conditions , the local duration of the excitatory state is the same at both , consequently , it begins and ends earlier at than at f the initial and terminal differences expressing themselves in the initial and terminal phases of the normal variation .
When one contact is warmer than the other , the local duration of the excitatory state is less in the warmed than in the unwarmed surface .
Consequently the terminal interval , i.e. , the time during which the excitatory state at / overlaps that at m , is longer .
The terminal phase of the variation begins earlier , and its deflections are larger .
If the surface at mis slightly injured , the local duration at the injured surface is diminished in the same way as when its temperature is increased .
The effects , indeed , are indistinguishable ; but if the injury is of such intensity as to destroy the surface , its most prominent effect is to diminish its electromotive activity .
Consequently , the activity of the contact f is unbalanced , and expresses itself in the large deflections which are exemplified in Table III .
In general , it is observed that in the injured ventricle the total duration of the variation is less than in the same preparation before injury .
We are not as yet in a position to offer an explanation of this fact .
Appendix .
Condition of the Surface of the Ventricle in the Resting \#151 ; It has already been repeatedly stated that the surface of the ventricle , so long as it is absolutely uninjured and at the same temperature in all parts , is isoelectrical .
Any_ inequality as reg'ards the mechanical , 'chemical , or thermal conditions to which the surface is exposed , is accompanied by corresponding electrical differences , which are of the following nature:\#151 ; If a platinum wire , warmed by the passage along it of a voltaic -current , is brought into the neighbourhood of a led-off surface , the .effect invariably produced is to render that surface positive to the other .
If the warming is continued for a few seconds only , the effect promptly subsides .
If it is continued , the needle also returns to zero , but continues to move to the negative side .
If , as soon as this second effect has been produced , the wire is withdrawn , it also 1880 .
] Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson .
On a 383 subsides , but very slowly .
The nearer the wire , and the longer it remains hot , the greater the electrical difference produced , and the longer the time required for its subsidence .
Corresponding results are obtained by touching the surface , in the manner before described , with a camel-hair pencil , containing solution of common salt .
The immediate result is to render the surface so acted upon positive to the other surface .
Here , as before , the effect rapidly subsides .
If now , the application is repeated or a stronger solution is used , the first effect is the same , but it is followed by a slow deflection of the needle in the opposite direction .
It is important to notice that , in both modes of acting on the surface of the ventricle , the primary effect ( that of increased " positivity " of the warmed or slightly injured surface ) is , when measured in electromotive force , inconsiderable .
After warming , we have never observed a greater difference than O003 volt .
When the solution of salt is used the effect may amount to as much as OOOl volt .
The subsequent negative effect varies according to the extent and degree of the injury , and may , as stated in our former paper , amount to from two to three hundredths of a volt .
Another question relating to the physiological condition of the resting heart is that of the influence of temperature on its excitability .
We have estimated the excitability of the ventricle by measuring , at different temperatures , galvanometrically , the strength of the weakest induction shock by which a response could be evoked , and have arrived at the general result that , when the temperature is raised from 10 ' C. to 30 ' C. , the excitability increases by one-third or one-sixtieth for each degree .
The suggestion offers itself that the two new facts which have been stated , viz. , the slight positivity of the warmed surface and the increased excitability are correlated , but it is of no value , excepting as an indication for further experiments .
The full account of the experiments , of which the results are shortly communicated above , will be published in the " Journal of Physiology .
" II .
" On a New Rheotome .
" By J. Burdon-Sanderson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Physiology , University College .
Received May 5 , 1880 .
I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society the following description of an instrument intended for the purpose of investigating the successive phases of the electrical change which takes place in the excitable parts of plants and animals in consequence of excitation .
I wo instruments intended for a similar purpose are already in use .
One ot them , known as the differential or repeating rheotome , was devised by Pro-

