]\gt ; Prof. J. H. nting .
Deterniination [ June 4 , II .
" " On a Determination of the Mean Density of the Earth and the Gravitation Constant by means of the Common \ldquo ; By J. H. POYNTING , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Mason College , Birmingham .
Received May 13 , 1891 .
( Abst racl .
) In a paper printed in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' No. 190 , 1878 , an account was given of some experiments undertaken order to test the possibility of using the common ) alance in place of the torsion ance in the Cavendish experimeot .
The success obtained seemed to justify the continuation of the work , and this aper c an account of an experiment carried out with a large 1 ullion balance , in place of the clJemical balance used in the preliminary trials .
The work has been carried out at the Mason College , The Principle of the \mdash ; The immediate object of the experiment may be regarded as the determination of the attraction of one known mass on another .
If two spheres , of masses and have their centres a distance apart , the attraction is , according to law of gravitation , GMM ' , where is the gravitation constant .
Astronomy justifies the law in certaiu cases as regards , but does not give the value of or , except in the product .
To tind we mnst measure GMM ' in some case in which both and are known .
Having found , we may determine the mean density of the earth , for , that it is a sphere of radius , the veight of any mass at its sul.face is But if is the acceleration of gravity the weight of may be cxpressed as .
Equating these values , we get Method of Using the Common .\mdash ; With the length of beam used ( about 123 cm .
) a differential method was applicable , in which the attraction on the beam was eliminated .
Two spherical masses of lead and antimony , about 21 kilos .
each , were hung from the two of the balance , so that their centres in the first position were about 30 cm .
above the centre of a large attracting mass , sphere of lead and antimony about 153 kilos .
, placed on a turntable , 1891 .
] Density of the and the avitation Constant .
41 so that it could be brought in turn immediately under either of the suspended attracted masses .
A balancing mass of half the weight , and at double the distance from the centre of the turntable on the other side , was found necessary , so that the centre of gravity ] be in the axis of rotation .
Before this was used , the ground level was seriously altered by the rotation of the turntable .
The attraction of the balancing mass was calculated and allowed for .
The alteration in the weights of the attracted masses , due to the motion of the attracting masses from one side to the other , was the quantity to be measured .
When this was mined in the lower osition of the attracted masses they were raised to about double the distance , and the attraction again determined .
The difference eliminated the pull on the beam , suspending wires , \amp ; c. To lessen the effect of want of homogeneity or sphericity in the masses , or of want of symmetry in the turntable , the masses were all inverted and changed over each to other side , and the weighings repeated .
The posibion of the beam was determined by the reflection of a scale in a mirror used with " " double suspension The was suspended by two silk threads , one attached to the end of the ordinary pointer about 60 cm .
below the central knife edge , the other parallel to it , being attached to a fixed support .
The mirror turned through an angle about 150 times as great as that through which the beam turned , and one scale division corresponded to all angle of tilt in the beam of about of a second .
The value of a scale division was determined by the use of two equal centigram riders which could be placed on or taken off wire frames representing the scale pans of a small subsidiary beam , cm .
long , fixed parallel to and at the centre of the large beam .
When one rider was placed on one supporting frame the other was at the same instant lifted olf the other frame .
The balance was left free throughout a series of weighings , and no moving parts of the apparatus were connected with the case .
The values obtained are as follows:\mdash ; The gravitation constant Mean density of the earth In the paper a description is given of a new form of cathetometer used to measure the diameters of the masses .

