The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Influence of the Tricuspid Valve of the Heart on the Circulation of the Blood .
" By T. W. King , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , F.R.S. , ?
was resumed and concluded .
The purport of this paper is to prove experimentally that the tricuspid valve of the human heart does not , in the ordinary state of the circulation , completely prevent the reflux of blood from the ventricle into the auricle on the right side , and that the amount of regurgitation is continually varying according to the different degrees of distention of the ventricle .
The author points out the anatomical differences between the auriculo-ventricular valves on the right and left sides of the heart ; from the consideration of which it might have been inferred , independently of direct experiment , that while the structure of the mitral valve is adapted to close accurately all communication between the left auricle and ventricle during the contraction of the latter , that of the tricuspid valve is designedly calculated to allow , when closed , of the flow of a certain quantity of blood from the right ventricle back again into the auricle .
The comparatively imperfect valvular function of these latter membranes is shown by various experiments on recent hearts , in which it was found that fluids injected , through the aorta , into the left ventricle , were perfectly retained in that cavity , by the closing of the mitral valve ; but that when the right ventricle was similarly injected through the pulmonary artery , the tricuspid valves generally allowed of the escape of the fluid in streams , more or less copious , in consequence of the incomplete apposition of their margins .
On repeating these experiments on different animals the author obtained similar results ; but found that the imperfection of the valvu2 c S38 lar function was greater , the sooner the heart was examined after the death of the animal 3 and that if the trials wrere made after the lapse of a certain time , the rigidity which gradually supervened on the mucular fibres of the heart , and of the carnece columnce attached to the margins of the valves , brought them into more complete apposition and led to the accurate closing of the passage .
This effect , however , was never so perfectly accomplished in the tricuspid , as in the mitrai valves .
The author regards this peculiarity of structure in the tricuspid valve as an express provision against the mischiefs that might result from an excessive affiux of blood to the lungs , analogous to a safetyvalve ; and as more especially advantageous in incipient diseased enlargements of the right ventricle .
He adverts to the conditions of the heart during the foetal state of existence , in which the same no ?
cessity of guarding against excessive pressure does not occur , and where the structures are found to correspond to the variation of functions .
A similar adjustment of the right auriculo-ventricular valve to the peculiar circumstances and habits of animals may also be traced by extending the inquiry to various classes of animals .

