436 Mr. E. T. Newton .
[ Dec. that the ends of the hydroccele meet round it , and the mouth is approximated to the substratum , so that the animal can feed on the mud beneath it , which is impregnated with organic matter .
It follows that the ahactinal poles of Asterina Comatula are not comparable tvith each other , and that all conclusions based on the supposed homology of the dorsocentral in Echinids and Asterids , and that in Crinoids , are incorrect .
II .
" .Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone :\#151 ; Description of Two-New Genera .
" By E. T. Newton , F.R.S. Received November 2 , 1893 .
( Communicated by permission of the Director-General of the Geological Survey .
) ( Abstract .
) Since the reading of the previous paper " On some New Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone " ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , 1893 ) , the author has received several additional specimens from the same formation in the neighbourhood of Elgin , but not from the same locality , and representing other groups of Reptiles .
Two of these specimens , being new and interesting forms , are described in detail .
One of them is the property of Mr. James Grant , of Lossiemouth , and is contained in a small irregular cube of sandstone .
The bones themselves having been dissolved out , as in the earlier described fossils , their forms have been reproduced by gutta-percha casts taken from the cavities left in the stone .
This reptile was evidently a small Para-suchian Crocodile , allied to Stagonolepis ; it is now represented by the skull , which is about 3 inches long , and the anterior half of the body , with the pectoral arch and both the fore limbs .
The skull is depressed , has a pair of supratemporal fossae and a pair of orbits completely surrounded by bone , and in front of the latter , on each side , a large prelachrymal fossa ; the two nasal openings are small , and placed near the end of the muzzle .
The palate is narrow and deeply grooved , with primitive posterior nares placed far forwards .
The teeth vary in size , are slender , conical , and recurved , and restricted to quite the anterior part of the upper jaw .
The vertebrae are slightly biconcave ; the 9th has distinct double articulations for the ribs , but how far this character extended forward is uncertain .
The scapulae are long and slender , while the coracoids are short and wide .
There is an interclavicle .
The humeri have each a strong pectoral crest , and are Crocodilian in form ; the radius and ulna are slender bones ; the carpals are indistinct ; five metacarpals aie present on each side , but only a few of the phalanges are to be seen .
Above the vertebrae there is a double row of small , pitted , and closely-set scutes .
This small Parasuchian is named Erpetosuchus Granti .
1893 .
] Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone .
437 The second specimen was obtained by the Rev. Dr. Gordon , of Elgin , from the quarry at Spynie , where the Telerpeton JElginense was found , and will be deposited in the British Museum .
In this fossil the bones were present , and the skull , thanks to the manipulative skill of Mr. J. Hall , of the British Museum , is still preserved , but many of the other bones were too much crumbled to show their form , and the casting process was again resorted to .
This specimen must have been entire when buried in the sandy matrix , but the neck and fore limbs are now wanting .
The resemblance of this fossil to Aetosaurus was noticed by Mr. A. Smith Woodward when it was exhibited at one of the Royal Society Soirees .
The skull is about 4^ inches long , sharp anteriorly , and Bird-like when seen from above , but deep when seen from the side .
There is on each side a laterally placed nasal aperture , a large prelachrymal fossa , a wide orbit , and an infratemporal fossa .
The teeth are of different sizes , but all seem to have been lanceolate , recurved , compressed , and serrated anteriorly and posteriorly as in Palceosaurus and Gladyodon .
The palate is deep , and a median pair of apertures near the postpalatine vacuities are believed to be primitive posterior nares , placed far back , somewhat as in Belodon .
This skull closely resembles that of Geratosaurus .
The more anterior of the thirteen presacral vertebrae which are present have distinct capitular and tubercular articulations for the ribs , but these gradually unite , and in the hindermost there is but one process with , perhaps , two articular surfaces at the extremity .
All the vertebrae are biconcave .
The sacrum includes three vertebrae with large and expanded ribs .
There are twenty-one caudal vertebrae present , which have long neural and haemal spines .
The ilium is Crocodilian in form , but not so high as in Stagonolepis , and thus approaches to the Dinosaurian type .
The ischia are elongated bones , but the pubes are still longer and are directed forwards .
The tibia and fibula must have been about the same length as the femur , which is nearly 4^ inches long , and Crocodilian in form .
The astragalus is free , and has some resemblance to that of a Crocodile ; there are five metatarsals , and the number of the phalanges is\#151 ; to the first digit 2 , to the second 3 , to the third 4 , to the fourth 5 , to the fifth 3 or more .
Many oval scutes are seen scattered above the neural spines , the anterior and larger ones being ornamented with irregular radiating pittings and ridges .
This reptile seems to be intermediate between the Dinosaurians and Crocodilians .
The skull and teeth are most like those of Dinosaurs ; the pelvis and limbs might belong to either Dinosaurs or Crocodiles ; while the free astragalus is certainly a Crocodilian character .
Provisionally this reptile is referred to the Theropodous Dinosauria , and is named Ornithosuchus Woodwardi .

