]\gt ; 1887 .
] On certain Definite Integrals .
post mortem , this , which has always been denied by Vircbow and others , is negatived by the occurrence in the stools here examined of an abundance of epithelial cells , often very slightly differing in appearance from the normal .
Occasionally they are coherent as groups of four and five ; there are , however , no finger-shaped casts of complete villi .
The cases of a doubtful nature from have not disclosed any comma-bacilli under microscopical examination .
In one of them the ulcers present in the ileum , which to the naked eye resembled those of enteric fever , pass deeply into the thickness of the muscular coat of the intestine , a condition to which I have only once seen any close approach in Asiatic cholera .
XXXII .
" " On certain Definite Integrak .
No. 15 By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1887 .
Mr. Fox Talbot 's researches on the comparison of transcendents are well known .
The following are founded on the same principle , applied in a different manner:\mdash ; Let\mdash ; be two equations connecting the variables , and .
Then we find and in terms of and in terms of and in terms of .
Or if\mdash ; ; and also ; we shall have ) , , , .
W. H. L. Russell .
[ June 16 , , , .
Now , since , where the limits must satisfy the equations\mdash ; ; ; from which it appears that one pair of limits may be considered arbitrary , while the other two pairs are given by these equations .
Since\mdash ; the limits being determined as before ; and since\mdash ; 1887 .
] On certain als .
; moreover , sinoe we shall have , since Similarly , since VOL. XLII .
2 Next suppose and remember that being any functions\mdash ; then , transforming as before ( with similar limits ) , we observe there are three arbitrary functions , which can be taken at pleasure , and six arbitrary constants .
We perceive therefore that the formula is very extensive .
The limits are of course connected by the equations\mdash ; Next let us transform by means of the equations\mdash ; ; then , proceeding as before , \mdash ; On certain Definite Integrals .
Hence we have the snm of the integrals ( supposed to be taken within the proper limits ) expl'essed by elliptic functions .
As a final example take the ] owing :\mdash ; Let\mdash ; since Deferred Papers .
[ June 16 , .
If we put xyzw , and by three equations similar nutandis to those we have have used , we shoulCl of course obtain the sum of four definite inbegrals .
The limits are omitted in some of the@e equations , but they be easily seen from the foregoing .
XXXIII .
" " A eTpretation of the first two Periods of Chemical Elements following Hydrogen , showing the Relations of the fourteen Elements to each other and to Hydrogen by means of a Right Line and Cubic Curve with one real Asymptote By Rev. SAMUEL HAUGHTON , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April } , ] [ Publication deferred .
] XXXIV .
' On the Force with which the two Layers of the healthy Pleura cohere By SAMUEL VEST , Communicated , by Sir JAMES PAGET , Bart. , .
Received May 21 , 1887 .
[ Publication deferred .
] xxxy .
' Total Eclipse of the Sun observed at the Caroline Islands on May 6 , 1883 By W. DE W. ABNEY , Capt. R.E. , .
Received May 25 , 1887 .
[ Publication deferred .
]

