A paper was read , entitled , " Essay towards a first approximation to a Map of Cotidal Lines .
" By the Rev. Wiliiam Whewell , M.A. F.R.S. Fellow of Trinity College Cambridge .
The general explanation of the phenomena of the tides originally given by Newton , although assented to by all subsequent philoso ?
phers , has never been pursued in all the details of which its results are susceptible , so as to show its bearing on the more special and local phenomena , to connect the actual tides of all the different parts of the world , and to account for their varieties and seeming anomalies .
The first scientific attempt that was made to compare the developed theory with any extensive range of observations , was that of Daniel Bernouilli in 1740 : the subject has since been pursued by Laplace and Bouvard , and still more recently by Mr. Lubbock .
But the comparison of contemporaneous tides has hitherto been unaccountably neglected : and to this particular branch of the subject the researches ot the author are in this paper especially directed ; the principal object of his inquiry being to ascertain the position of what may be called cotidal lines , that is , lines drawn through all the adja ?
cent parts of the ocean where it is high water at the same time ; as , for instance , at a particular hour on a given day .
These lines may be considered as representing the summit or ridge of the tide wave existing at that time , and which advances progressively along the sea , bringing high water to every place where it passes .
Hence the cotidal lines for successive hours represent the successive positions of the summit of the tide wave , which in the open sea travels round the earth once in twenty-four hours , accompanied by another at twelve hours ' distance from it , and both sending branches into the narrower seas .
Thus a map of cotidal lines may be constructed , at once exhibiting to the eye the manner and the velocity of all these motions .
Although the observations on the periods of the tides at different places on the coast and different parts of the ocean , which have been at various times recorded , are exceedingly numerous , yet they are unfortunately for the most part too deficient in point of accuracy , or possess too little uniformity of connexion to afford very satisfactory results , or to admit of any extended comparison with theory .
With a view to arrive at more correct conclusions , the author begins his inquiry by endeavouring to determine what may be expected to be the forms of the cotidal lines , as deduced from the laws which regulate the motions of water : and he proceeds afterwards to examine what are their real forms , as shown by the comparison of all the tide observations which we at present possess .
The paper is divided into five sections .
In the first the author treats of cotidal lines as deduced theoretically from the known laws of the motion of fluids .
On the supposition that the whole surface of the globe is covered with water , the cotidal lines would coincide with the meridians , and would revolve round the earth from east to west in something more than twenty-four hours , with a velocity of nearly 1000 miles an hour at the equator .
The form and the regularity of these lines would be materially affected by the interposition of land in different parts of this ocean , whether in detached islands , or groups of islands , or large continents , occupying a considerable portion of the surface .
In these cases the primary wave will be broken , deflected and variously modified , so as to give rise to secondary or derivative tides , sometimes separating into branches , and producing points of divergence ; sometimes uniting at various places , or points of convergence ; and at other times producing , by more complex combinations , various phenomena of interference , and other apparently anomalous results .
Such is the general character of the tidewaves that actually proceed along the coasts of the Atlantic : and the modifications in their course and velocity are still more per ?
ceptible in bays , gulfs , and narrower channels and inlets of the sea , as well as in their progress along rivers .
The author traces in detail the effects which these different circumstances may be expected to produce .
He adverts to an important distinction which has frequently been lost sight of , between the progressive motion of the tide-wave and the actual horizontal motion of the water , or tide-current ; motions which do not bear any constant relation to one another .
Hence the change in the direction of the current does not invariably indicate the rise or fall of the water .
In the second section he examines the causes which have led to inaccuracy in making observations on the tides ; the first of which is dependent on the circumstance just mentioned , of the occasional want of correspondence between the times of high and of slack water ; the former referring to the moment of greatest elevation , the latter to that when the direction of the current changes .
The other causes of error are derived from the change which takes place in the course of the day in the moon 's angular distance from the sun ; from the half-monthly inequality in the establishment , arising from the relative position of the sun and moon during each lunation ; and from the necessity that exists of making a correction for what may be termed the age of the tide ; that is , the interval of time which has elapsed between the period of the origin of the wave and the time of its actual arrival at the place of observation .
The third section , which forms the chief bulk of the paper , is oc ?
cupied by a statement and discussion of the tide observations now extant , and which the author has , with great industry , collected from a variety of sources , both of published accounts , and of manuscript documents preserved in the Admiralty .
Commencing with the tidewaves , first of the eastern and then of the western coasts of the At ?
lantic , he follows them to the Northern sea , and to the different coasts of the British islands , and of the German Ocean .
He passes next to the examination of those of the Southern Atlantic at Cape Horn and the adjacent coasts ; thence tracing them , as far as the present imperfect data will allow , along the western shores of the American continent , to the central parts of the Pacific , and in their progress across the Australian and Indian Oceans .
He likewise examines the con ?
dition of the tides in rivers , as to the magnitude and velocity of the undulations , the occasional production of a high and abrupt wave , or bore , and as to the influence of the natural stream of the river upon the different periods of elevation or depression of the water .
The fourth section contains general remarks on the course of the tides , suggested by the preceding review of the phenomena they present ; on the velocity of the tide-wave ; on the form of the cotidal lines ; on the currents which attend the tides ; on the production of revolving currents ; on the magnitude of tides ; and on the constancy of the cotidal lines .
He adverts also to some peculiarities resulting from interference , such as the differences of the two diurnal tides , and occasionally the occurrence of single day tides .
In the concluding section the author offers various suggestions re ?
specting the most eligible mode of making observations on the tides , and of correctly reducing them when made .

