599 c w v\#187 ; .
c , ( ; . .
' \#166 ; ( ' Surface Flow in Calcite .
By G- .
T. Beilby , F.R.S. ( Received June 17 , \#151 ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) Part I.\#151 ; The Surface , Shin produced by Polishing Cleavage Plates of Calcite , with some Measurements of its Thickness .
The researches of Mr. 0 .
V. Barker on " The Formation of Regular Growths of Crystals of one Substance upon those of another"* have given a new interest to certain of my earlier observations on the formation and structure of polished surfaces , f Mr. Barker having found that the method of polishing a cleavage face of calcite used by me in my original experiments did not interfere with the* parallel growth of sodium nitrate crystals on the polished face , he invited me in February , 1906 , to repeat his experiments on this particular point .
This I did , using my own crystals and methods of polishing .
These observations fully confirmed those of Mr. Barker , for parallel growths were readily obtained , not merely on faces which had been lightly polished by gentle rubbing wfith clean soft chamois leather , but also on faces which had been polished by the more drastic processes of grinding and polishing with abrasive powders .
In a truly polished surface I have never been able to detect any traces of crystalline structure .
The flowed layer on the surface is left with a smooth and glassy appearance like that of a varnish or enamel .
The greater solubility of this layer , as well as its greater hardness and homogeneity , indicates that an important change in its molecular structure has occurred .
I have sought to explain this change by the supposition that the crystalline orientation of the molecules is completely disturbed at the moment of flow and that the subsequent solidification occurs before the molecules have time to arrange themselves in conformity with the orientation of the undisturbed crystal .
The surface layer is thus left in an amorphous or vitreous condition .
If these conclusions are correct , a very interesting question arises as to the nature of the influence of the calcite crystal in determining the parallel growth of sodium nitrate crystals on its surface .
If the molecules of the polished surface are not themselves in the regular crystalline arrangement proper to calcite , the parallel growth of the nitrate crystals cannot be due to the influence of the calcium carbonate molecules with which they are in direct * 'Cliem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 89 , p. 1120 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 221 .
VOL. LXXX1I.\#151 ; A. 2 S 600 Mr. G. T. Beilby [ June 17 , contact , and the conclusion appears to be forced upon us that the influence under which the nitrate molecules are oriented proceeds from the crystal as a whole , and that this influence is sufficiently strong to act across the disturbed layer which has been produced by polishing .
As a first step towards the solution of this problem , it appeared desirable that a more detailed and searching exploration of the layer developed by polishing should be made .
Having accumulated a good deal of practical experience in the exploration of surfaces by step-by-step etching or solution , I was satisfied that the method was capable of considerable development , and that it could be used in this case with a fair amount of confidence .
In the method which was adopted , small drops of uniform size and containing known quantities of hydrochloric acid were placed on the polished surface and were allowed to remain there till the acid had dissolved all the calcium carbonate it could take up .
The drop was then washed off first with water and then with absolute alcohol .
The weight of the c'alcium carbonate removed was calculated on the assumption that the whole of the HC1 in the drop was converted into CaCl2 .
The density of the calcium carbonate was taken to be that of calcite\#151 ; 2*75\#151 ; though it is probable that the density of the polished layer is considerably greater than this .
The area of the surface acted on by the drop was measured , and from this the thickness of the layer dissolved by the acid was calculated .
Microscopic examination showed that , with all but the most dilute solutions of acid , the amount of carbonate removed was fairly uniform over the whole area over which the drop spread .
The strength of the acid used ranged from 02 to 0,000125 per cent. HC1 ; the weaker acids were made directly by dilution from the stronger .
It was noticed that the more dilute acids lost a part of their solvent power if they were left standing overnight in glass flasks or bottles , the tests were therefore always made with freshly prepared dilutions .
It seems probable that the errors involved in this method all tend to cause the calculated effects of the removal of CaC03 to be in excess of the actual effects , the error being greater as the higher dilutions are reached .
This is of special interest in connection with the determination of the minimum depth of disturbance which could be detected by the microscope , as in this case the calculated thickness of the layer removed is practically certain to be a maximum figure .
Experiments were made by applying successive drops of acid to the same spot on the polished surface and some interesting observations were made in this way , but in the most complete series of experiments the drops of the different dilutions were placed on fresh parts of the surface .
The pits so produced were carefully explored by the microscope , using objectives of various resolving powers and with different .
means of illumination .
1909 .
] Surface Flow in Calcite .
Photomicrographs of the pits were secured , but these are reserved for publication with a more detailed description of these observations .
The etching was made in the first instance with solutions in a descending scale of acidity , the series being pushed as quickly as possible towards the furthest point at which any visible alteration of the polished surface could be detected .
When a condensed beam of sunlight was used to give the oblique illumination of the surface , it was possible to detect the effect of a drop of acid which contained only 0'000125 per cent , of HC1 .
The depth of the layer removed by this drop did not exceed 0'62 gg ( 1 gy = 10~ ' mm. ) .
This pit could be seen , though not very distinctly , by illuminating the spot by the critical image of a Nernst filament .
Illumination by the nearly critical image of the sun showed the whole surface of the pit brilliantly spicular and of a sky-blue colour .
A photo-micrograph of this was obtained .
If it is correct to assume that the solvent effect of the acid was uniformly distributed over the whole surface of the pit , then it follows that a roughening of the surface not more than 2 molecules in depth has been detected. .
The results of the step-by-step etching have been summarised in tabular form .
They show that the mechanical disturbance caused by the polishing agent penetrates to a depth of 500 to 1000 At this depth the disturbance consists mainly of the deeper scratches or furrows which have been ploughed through the thin lamellae of which the crystal is built up .
This ploughing has so completely flowed the crystalline substance that the scratches and furrows have been perfectly healed over and no traces of them are disclosed even when a powerful beam of light is thrown across the surface .
Yet the action of the solvent acid enables us to follow with the utmost minuteness the lines of disturbance and flow .
As the surface is approached , the furrows are finer and more numerous till , at a distance of 100 / qu , from the surface , they disappear and the action of the solvent only discloses fine and shallow flow lines similar to those which have been observed in the polishing of metals .
In the 50 to 100 layer at the surface there is no trace even of the remains of broken-up lamellae , and the appearance is absolutely vitreous and homogeneous , like a coating of varnish or enamel .
Tested by the loaded needle , the surface is harder and more tenacious than the original undisturbed face of the crystal .
This greater hardness and tenacity became more evident as practical experience in polishing calcite was accumulated .
It was found that the resistance of the surface layer to the finer abrasives increased as the polishing proceeded .
After a surface skin has been fully developed by polishing , it is able to resist the cutting-action of the powders by which the surface had been satisfactorily ground at an earlier stage .
It happens not infrequently that the polished surface is 2 s 2 \#166 ; 602 [ June 17 , Mr. G , T ; Beilby .
spoilt by accidental scratching just when it has reached the final stage .
When this occurs , it is useless to attempt to repolish it by going back only a few stages .
In most cases there is no alternative but to clear off the whole skin by grinding and to start again from the beginning .
When clearing off this skin , one is made to realise how thoroughly its properties differ from those of the natural crystal surface .
HCl per cent. Depth of layer in MM- No. of molecules in thickness .
Illumination by an intense incident beam at an angle of 30 ' with the surface .
Illumination by a slightly oblique beam of transmitted light .
Scratches across the field .
0 *000125 0*62 2 Distinct spicular appearance on a deep sky-blue ground No visible structure even wTith an objective of N.A. 0*95 and magnification x 700 A few accidental scratches 0 *00025 1 *25 4 The same The same 0 *0005 2*50 8 Brilliant spicular appearance The same 33 0*001 5*00 16 The same , but more distinctly granular The same 33 0*002 10 *00 32 The same ; oblong granular across the flow lines Flow* lines faintly visible 33 0*005 25 *00 80 The same ; granules larger Flow lines more distinct 33 0*01 50 *00 160 The same The same , with granular texture Regular scratches appear 0*02 100 *00 320 The same ; spicular layer disappearing Spicular appearance only on edge of scratches The same Scratches becoming uncovered Over 200 0*05 250 *00 800 Disturbance confined to scratches Over 100 0*10 500 *00 1600 The same , but fewer scratches About 30 0*2 1000 *00 3200 The same A few scratches in the undisturbed lamellae .
Their sides partly etched into rounded forms and partly broken and splintered About 5 The acidity of the solvent is given in fractions of 1 per cent , of HC1 .
The depth of the layer is given in fi/ i. 1 / xju .
= 10~6 millimetre .
The diameter of the CaC03 molecule is taken as approximately 0'3 The increased hardness and tenacity of the surface skin is believed to be due to the same cause as the corresponding change , which my earlier observations have shown to occur in metals , * namely , to the sudden breaking down of the crystalline units into a mobile or liquid phase which immediately congeals into a vitreous or amorphous solid in which the capacity for further * ' Phil. Mag. , August , 1904 .
1909 .
] !
Sw'fa , ce Flow in1 Calcite .
flow is enormously reduced .
In this new and harder state molecular movement of the surface still occurs on polishing , but it is confined to a layer only a few molecules in depth , and the flow is so limited that surface scratches and irregularities are no longer obliterated by it .
The difficulty in finishing off a calcite surface with a really fine polish is very great , and is largely due to this cause , for the longer the surface is polished the less , capable it becomes of flowing into a true liquid-like skin .
The most perfect surface microscopically is obtained when a perfectly fresh cleavage face is lightly polished by the finger covered with soft chamois leather .
Part II.\#151 ; The Parallel Growth of Crystals of Sodium Nitrate ' on Polished Plates of Calcite . .
The observations in Part I show that polishing develops over the crystal surface a true skin , the substance of which is in various respects profoundly different from the crystal substance from which it has been produced .
Whatever hypothesis may be put forward as to the intimate nature of this change of structure , there can be no doubt as to the reality of the change .
There appears also to be no room for doubt that the liquid-like surface of the outermost layer of the skin , on which the perfection of the polish depends , is due to the fact that this layer has passed through a liquid phase and has solidified under the influence of surface tension .
There is abundant evidence to show that the aggregation of molecules at a surface can be so completely controlled by cohesion that crystalline orientation cannot occur .
On this profoundly altered skin , with its smooth liquid-like surface , it has been found that the crystalline influence of the calcite is Still sufficient to cause crystals of sodium nitrate to deposit in parallel order , that is with their molecules similarly oriented to those of the calcite .
It naturally occurred to me to try whether the orienting influence could make itself felt through layers of other indifferent substances .
Films of gold and of platinum were deposited on cleavage plates of ealcite , and on these parallel growths of sodium nitrate were still obtained .
But there was always the suspicion that these extremely thin metallic films were not really impervious , and that they might have become soaked with the nitrate solution , thus forming a physical connection between the crystal surface and the crystallising salt .
More success attended the production of deposited layers of calcium carbonate and oxalate .
When a drop of lime water is placed on a calcite surface , in addition to the pellicle of carbonate which forms over its surface , a fine and fairly adherent layer of carbonate is deposited on the calcite .
This layer is translucent , and under high magnification it is minutely 604 .
Mr. G. T. Beilby .
[ June 17 , granular ; with care it can be polished till it becomes almost as transparent as the calcite itself .
Films of various thicknesses were deposited and polished , and were then tested with sodium nitrate for parallel growths .
The results showed that films could be obtained of sufficient thickness absolutely to stop the parallel growths ; but thinner and apparently equally perfect films were obtained which did not interfere with these growths .
I hope to be able to determine the critical thickness of the deposited layer which is just sufficient to cut off the orienting influence of the calcite .
Conclusions .
1 .
The polished surface of a cleavage plate of calcite , even when illuminated by an intense oblique beam , shows no traces of the grave disturbance to which it has been subjected by the operation of polishing .
2 .
By the step-by-step removal of the surface layers by a solvent the nature and extent of the disturbance of these layers is disclosed , and it is found that ploughing and breaking of the lamellae has occurred to a depth of from 500 to 1000 pp. The complete obliteration of the traces of this disturbance referred to above ( 1 ) shows that the disturbed substance as it passed through the mobile to the solidified state must have extended through the whole depth of the disturbed layers , otherwise the healing of the deeper furrows would have been imperfect , and their traces would have been shown up by the oblique beam .
3 .
The laying bare of the disturbed layers by the action of the solvent shows that this action is selective , the substance which has been flowed and solidified being first attacked .
The molecular arrangement of the flowed substance must , therefore , be different from that of the original crystal .
4 .
The surface layer formed by polishing is harder than the unaltered crystal surface , and it is equally hard in all directions , which the natural surface is not .
The new surface forms a genuine protecting skin over the crystal face .
5 .
The presence of this protective skin does not interfere with the parallel growth of crystals of sodium nitrate on the polished surface .
Among a large number of experiments with polished surfaces produced in a variety of ways no case occurred in which this parallel growth was prevented . .
6 .
By the deposition and subsequent polishing of layers of non-crystalline calcium carbonate and oxalate on the already polished skin , a further skin was interposed between the true , surface of the calcite crystal and the deposited crystals of sodium nitrate .
Up to a certain thickness this ditknot interfere with the parallel deposition of the sodium nitrate crystals , but 1909 .
] Surface Flow in Calcite .
beyond this thickness the deposition was quite irregular and had no relation to the orientation of the crystal beneath .
Most of these observations have been before me for fully three years , during which period they have from time to time been repeated with any variations which appeared likely to put the questions involved to a more crucial test .
The most important of these questions is , can the directive influence of a crystal make itself felt through a layer of unoriented , or of differently oriented molecules ?
So far as these observations go , the answer appears to be in the affirmative , and the sole reason for hesitating to accept this answer without reserve is that it will , if accepted , fundamentally affect our views of crystalline aggregation and the growth of crystals .
The greatest caution ought , therefore , to be exercised in drawing a final conclusion in this sense .
I hope to continue these observations and to extend them in other directions .
I should like here to acknowledge the kindness and courtesy of Prof. Miers and Mr. C. V. Barker in making their original communications to me three years ago .
o o C. \ , / a r r. : t * " ?
o / c V ; : ( / ' ... .
* .
v. : ' ( ' ; .
: i ; r .
f ' ! .
r ^

