1894 .
] On the Arc Spectrum of Meteorites .
Pig .
3 .
Sb .
13 \ direction was reversed according as lead or bismuth was present , viz. , downwards to the left in the first case , and to the right in the second .
II .
" On the Photographic Arc Spectrum of Iron Meteorites .
" By Professor J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) This communication consists of a discussion of the photographic arc spectra of the Nejed and Obernkirchen meteorites , the wavelengths of the lines being based upon those determined by means of the photographic arc spectrum of electrolytic iron , a paper concerning which has been recently communicated to the Society .
The portion of the spectrum covered by the photographs extends from K to D. 140 On the Arc Spectrum of Iron Meteorites .
[ Feb. 15 , The -wave-lengths , intensities , and origins of the lines in thb spectra are given in tabular form .
The following general conclusions have been arrived at:___ 1 .
The spectra of the two meteorites closely agree , both as regards the number and intensities of the lines , the slight difference in number being probably due to a difference of exposure .
2 .
The meteoritic spectra and the solar spectrum show considerable similarity .
The iron lines in each have about the same relative intensity , thus indicating that the temperature of the iron vapour in the sun which produces the majority of the iron lines is about the same as that of the electric arc .
3 .
The results of the inquiry into the origin of the lines , in addition to those of iron , may be thus summarised:\#151 ; Substances certainly present .
Substances probably present .
Manganese .
Strontium .
Cobalt .
Lead .
Nickel .
Lithium .
Chromium .
Cerium .
Titanium .
Molybdenum .
Copper .
Vanadium .
Barium , Didymium .
Calcium .
Uranium .
Sodium .
Tungsten .
Potassium .
4 .
Of the few faint lines in the tables , , for which no origins have been found from the Kensington maps of metallic arc spectra , the majority are apparently coincident with lines mapped by Messrs. Kayser and Rung in the iron spectrum .
These do not appear in the Kensington photographs , probably on account of insufficient exposure .
5 .
By noting the difference in intensity of identical lines in the two spectra , a rough approximation can be made to the relative quantities of the different substances present in the meteorites .
Thus it is found that the chief chemical difference between the two meteorites is that there is a preponderance of calcium in the Nejed , and of nickel , barium , and strontium in the Obernkirchen , meteorite .

