A Discourse denying the Prae-existence of Alcalizate or Fixed Salt in any Subject , before it were exposed to the Action of the Fire : To which is added a Confirmation of an Assertion , delivered in Numb. 101 .
p. 5 .
~ .
6 .
of these Tracts , viz. That Alcalizate or Fixed Salts extracted out of the Ashes of Vegetables , do not differ from each other : The same likewise affirmed of Volatil Salts and Vinous Spirits ; by the learned Dr. Daniel Coxe .
THE Alcalizate or Fixed Salts of Plants , extracted out of their Ashes after Incineration , or out of Tartar calcined ; do , in my Apprehension , neither prae-exist in the Vegetables that afforded them , before they were exposed to the Action of the Fire ; nor do they differ considerably , ( I am certain , not sensibly ) from each other .
The former part of this Position may be thus made out : 1 .
I never yet found , that any Vegetable ( or indeed Animal , or Mineral ) Substance did in the least Measure manifest to the Taste , or by its Effects , that it contained any such Salt .
Many Plants and Roots , lightly bruised , affect the Eyes and Nose after the manner of Volatil Salts , and several do bite the Tongue , and strike upon the Palate .
Some Herbs yield a copious Volatil Salt immediately after they are pressed by a considerable degree of Heat : And many sorts of Earths do abound therewith ; so that it is highly probable , they do often actually exist in Vegetables , in the very same Form , wherein they appear unto us upon Distillation from the Herbs themselves , or from Soot .
And that Acid Salts do really exist in many Plants , is displayed by their Tasts and Effects .
They may also be obtained without Fire , or any artificial Analysis ; as is evident in Tartar , and the reputed Essential Salts of many Plants ; in Verjuyce , Vinegar , and Verdegris , whose Acidities may be concentred , and made to appear in a dry Form .
Now did Alcalies exist in the Plants before the Analysis , especially so copiously as they sometimes appear afterwards , certainly they would betray themselves by some visible sensible Property , or other symptom of their Presence .
2 .
Did Alcalies prae-exist in Plants , probably Animals , whose sole Food they are , would also abound therewith ; whereas on the contrary , we do not find the least Footsteps thereof , either in Blood , Urine , Bones , Horns , &amp;c. which do all abound with Volatil Salts ; nor in some other Parts , Excrements , and Juyces , that afford store of Acidity , which may frequently by coagulation be brought to a Saline form or consistence .
Nor can it reasonably be pretended , that the Ferment of the Stomach and other Parts , several Digestions and repeated Circulations , have altered its Property , and at length rendered it Volatil .
For , first , Alcalies seem to be of a very fixed Nature , and are not easily volatilized : And daily Experience will evince , that the Chyle doth not in the least participate , either in Taste , or any other Property , with Alcalisate Salts .
Besides , Herbs taken out of the Omasus of ruminating Animals , without any further Digestion or Preparation , yield a Volatil Salt when fermented or putrified in the open Air , without Additament .
3 .
Most Vegetables , whether Woods or Herbs , if burnt whilst they are green , and with a smothering fire , yield Salts which are far enough from Alcalisate ; being either Neutral or Acid ; or , to speak more properly , Tartareous : For , they do almost exactly resemble purified Tartar ; and distilled , yield the very same Substances .
Indeed , some few Herbs , such as Satureja , Rosemary , &amp;c. which abound with a sprightly volatil Oil , if they are well dried , upon simple incineration yield an Alcalisate Salt : So do some dry Woods .
But , that they are produced by the Fire , and not separated , I shall anon prove from Experiments , I think , unquestionable and unanswerable .
4 .
In the most natural Method of analysing Plants , which is by Fermentation or Putrefaction without additaments , or the intervening of a suspicious Analyser , we receive Oil , Acid Spirit , and Volatil Salt copiously ; all which did evidently prae-exist .
But , if the Herbs are perfectly or entirely putrified , little or no Alcali can be extracted from them ; as neither from rotten or putrified Wood ; the active Salts , by whose combination the Alcali is produced , being either expired or evaporated .
Next , I am to enquire , How the Fire produces this Alcali : Whether by the changing of one single prae-existing Principle ; or by enabling any among them to make so notable an alteration upon , or in the other ; or lastly , Whether it is effected by the Union of two or more active Principles , which thereby become different from what they were before the said Combination ?
I shall not at present trouble you with the Reasons , Experiments , and Observations , which have induced me to reject the former ; but , briefly suggest those , which encourage and dispose me to believe and assent unto the latter : So that this is my Position ; That Alcali Salts do result from the Combination or Union of the Saline and Sulphureous Principle .
But , whether it is the Volatil or Acid Salt , which combines with the Oil or Sulphur , is now the Subject of our Inquiry .
The ensuing Considerations seem to determine in favour of the Acids .
First , Tartar , which is sensibly Acid , and from which a Volatil Salt cannot be separated by any commonly known Method , by bare Calcination becomes a strong and perfect Alcali .
Secondly , Niter , an undoubted Acid with a small proportion of Mineral or Vegetable Sulphur , is converted into a genuine fiery Alcali .
Thirdly , Niter , which is made by the affusion of an Acid Spirit upon an Alcali , may be almost totally distilled into an Acid Spirit , there appearing not the least Footsteps of a Volatil Salt , and scarce any of the Alcali , out of which it was chiefly produced .
But these are very weak and inconsiderable , compared with Arguments , which necessitate me to believe , that it emerges from the Union of the Volatil Salt with the Oleaginous or Sulphureous Principle .
For , 1 .
There seems to be a great Contrariety between Acids and Alcalies : Being mixed , they heat , fight and mortify each other ; whatsoever one dissolves , the other precipitates : Whereas , were the Salt of Alcalies of a Nature approaching to Acids , they would more plainly unite without that violent contention , which usually ensues .
2 .
Alcalies and Volatil Salts agree in most Properties , excepting their different Degrees of Gravitation .
They are both Diuretical and De-obstruent ; they both dissolve Sulphureous Bodies ; agree in their contrariety to Acids , but mix together quietly without noise , heat , ebullition , or impairing each others Virtues , and are easily separable ; the same in Quantity and Quality they were before mixture .
3 .
Tartareous or Essential Salts of Vegetables cannot become Alcalies , until their Acidity be driven away ; during which Operation the Volatil Salts and Oil uniting , become more ponderous than the Acid , which before did gravitate more than either of them in their separate State : So that such a degree of Fire , as will wholly dissipate the Acid Spirit , cannot elevate the more ponderous Alcali .
Not but that , contrary to what is commonly asserted , the most fixed Alcali may be sublimed to great height without additaments , by any intense degree of Heat : For , I have frequently reduced a Pound thereof unto three or four Ounces , and recovered a considerable Proportion , which was caught in well-contriv 'd Vessels , some Yards above the Crucible ; little , if at all , altered from what it was immediately before it suffered this violence .
Upon this Account chiefly it is , that Soot yields some small Quantity of an Alcali , especially that nearest the Focus .
4 .
Alcalies may be divided into Oil and Volatil Salt by facil and natural Methods of procedure .
I my self have many Ways effected this in Part : And a very worthy Person , in whom I can perfectly conside , assured me , he hath frequently resolved the whole Body of Alcalies into the two distinct Substances of Volatil Salt and Oil ; receiving of the latter a small Proportion : Which is also confirmed by those Trials I have made on the same Subject .
I could suggest many more Arguments and Experiments ; but these being sufficient , and , I think , indissoluble , I proceed to confute the Pretensions of Acid Salts to an Interest in this new Production .
First , What concerns Tartar , its Acidity is driven away in great Quantity before it can become Alcalisate ; and a Volatil Salt may , to my Knowledge , be by divers Methods separated from it .
Secondly , As to Niter , though that in Distillation yields an Acid Spirit , yet it abounds also in Volatil Salt ; as I could demonstrate from the Manner of its Generation , and from irrefragable Experiments .
And besides , perhaps in the operation of the Sulphur on the Acid Salt , supposing it such , there is a comminution of its Parts , and thereby that made a Volatil Salt which was before Acid , only Magnitude discriminating between them : And that they are often thus produced by each other , I could fully and at large evince .
Having dispatch 'd this , I cannot but take Notice , that I am credibly informed , That many Persons of no ordinary Repute for their Skill in Chemistry , and other Arts subservient to Experimental Philosophy , have been pleased to censure in an unusual measure of Severity , an Assertion , accidentally dropped from my Pen , in a Discourse concerning the Volatil Salts of Vegetables , in Numb. 101 .
of the Ph. Transactions ; which although circumscribed by a Parathesis , and an Alien to the main Design and Scope of my Undertaking , yet was so far from being thereby protected , that it hath sustained the brunt of many unkind Reproaches , and been represented as a Position without Foundation in Reason or Experience .
I shall not endeavour by an elaborate Apology , to vindicate my self from that Disgrace , whereunto a Charge of being Inconsiderate , Un-judicious , or ( which is still worse ) Un-sincere , must necessarily expose me ; but shall nakedly and simply rehearse , without Flourishes , Digressions or Circumbolution , the Reasons , Observations and Experiments , which induced me to embrace brace and publish an Opinion , so contrary to what hath been hitherto generally received : And I shall then appeal unto all un-prejudiced , impartial , and intelligent Persons , Whether the arraigned Position be ungrounded and temera .
rious ; or rather , Whether the Arguments I have produced in its Favour and for its Confirmation , do not render it highly probable , and excuse any , who shall give it entertainment , from suspicion of Levity , or too prompt Credulity .
My Assertion was , That Alcalisate or Fixed Salts extracted out of the Ashes of Vegetables , do not differ from each other ; as neither their Vinous Spirits ; yet with this restriction , if they were highly rectified or purified .
And that I may further manifest , I do not distrust my Cause , I shall add , Nor Volatil Salts , not only of Vegetables , ( which I did heretofore faintly affirm ) but even those yielded by Animals or Minerals , with the before-mention 'd limitation of due Purification .
First then , I say , That Salts perfectly Alcalised , differ not from each other in Sensible , nor , ( so far as I have had opportunity to enquire ) in hidden , Properties .
It hath been a constant and general Persuasion , that many Fixed Salts do retain , some , at least , the Specifical Properties of those Vegetables , out of whose Ashes they were extracted .
The Salt of Wormwood and Mint are said to be stomachial ; that of the greater Celondine proper for Ictericks ; those of Broom , Ash-Keys , Elder , Bean-Stalks , &amp;c. Diuretical ; of Rosemary , Sage , &amp;c. Cephalic ; and others , ( too many now to enumerate , ) which are thought to be endowed with very different Medicinal Properties .
I am not very forward to question and quarrel with Opinions and Maxims established by universal Consent , and confirmed by the Experience of many Ages , unless I have sufficient Reason to distrust their Veracity and Validity .
In the present Case , the persuasion of the Ancients , and the Position , which I shall endeavour to illustrate , though at the first Appearance they seem diametrically opposite , may be easily reconciled .
I formerly declared , that most Vegetables , burnt whilst green or moist , and with a smothering Fire , yield a kind of a Neutral Salt , which may be called Tartareous , and sometimes not improperly Essential , many of them retaining the Vomitive , Purging , Sweating , Diuretical , Opiate , or other general , and perhaps some specifical Properties , wherewith the Plants were enobled which produced them .
Now , whether it is some small Quantity of the Essential Oil , which mixed with the Saline Principle , renders it so variously Medicinal , the Essential Oils of Plants being manifestly as 'twere a Compendium of the Plant , which they do equally exactly resemble in Smell , Taste , and other Qualities : Or , whether those Virtues are the result of the crasis and mixture of the several Principles ; certain I am , that , after the Oil is evapoured by an intense Heat , or the Crasis disturbed by avolation of some Parts , and new Combinations of what remains , farewel all Specifical Qualities , and consequently all other Differences , than what Purity and Impurity , and several degrees of heat may occasion ; some being more white and fiery than others .
Now , some Salts are much more easily deprived of their Acid and Oily Parts than others ; and in some , on the contrary , the Oil is of so fixed a Nature , or rather so closely combined with the other Principles , that it must be a very intense Heat which can disjoin them , and thereby reduce the Salt to the common standard or aggregate of Qualities , wherein all Alcalies agree .
The industrious Tachenius does somewhere pretend to demonstrate , that there is a real difference between the Alcalies of different Plants ; which he would prove by the various Effects they have upon a Sublimate dissolved in common Water .
But this is easily resolved by what I before suggested ; as also by an easy obvious Experiment , meant , which may at any Season in any Plant be readily proved .
Take what Wood or Plant you please , burn it green ; the Salt being extracted out of the Ashes , will , according to the different Degrees of fire whereunto it shall successively be exposed , variously influence the Mercurial Solution , the several Praecipitats differing no less from each other , than when made with the Salts of different Plants .
This is also most evident in Tartar , which , the less and more gently it is calcined , the more Salt it yields ; and on the contrary , a much smaller Proportion , if suddenly and with the highest degrees of Heat .
That which is prepared by the former Method , is mild and gentle , its Taste approaching somewhat towards that of Acids ; whereas the other , which hath passed through the violence of fire , hath not the least affinity therewith , and can almost as little be endured by the Tongue as a live coal of actual Fire .
And there being very many degrees of Heat , whereunto the Tartar may be successively exposed according to the said Degrees , the Manner of applying it , space of Time , and Substances employed in its Calcination ; the Result will be different , and produce different Effects : And the very same sort of Tartar will oftentimes become sensibly different upon these Methods of Procedure , and produce most of the Appearances mentioned by Tachenius .
And sometimes several Parcels of Tartar , which seem to our Taste and Eye calcined to the same Degree ; yet the Operations in nice Experiments are frequently various .
And to me it doth not seem so very wonderful , that many Concrets do really differ , which to the Senses appear simple and uniform ; of which many Causes may be assigned .
A great number and variety of Instances might be here introduced to clear this Truth , if it were not already sufficiently known and believed .
But to proceed where I digressed ; What I have asserted is confirmed by the great variety , which is most visible in Pot-ashes : Some being highly Alcalisate are fiery hot ; others , cold , watery , nitrous to the Palate , and no less weak in Effects than Taste ; whereof Soap-boylers , Dyers , and other Mechanicks are very sensible .
All which proceeds from the Woods , being , when they are burnt , green or dry ; from their abounding with Oily , Aqueous , or Acetous Parts ; as also from the several Degrees of Heat employed in their Production .
Those who make Glass , and especially the finer Sorts thereof , complain , that they cannot with the same quantities and proportions of Ingredients , always produce the same sort of Glass : Which they , not without Reason , ascribe to the Differences in their Ashes .
This must necessarily often happen according to the lately mentioned Hypothesis .
The remainder of this Discourse , affirming the like of Volatile Salts and Vinous Spirits , with what hath been said of Alcalisate Salts , we refer to the next Month ; the room left in this Tract being to be employed , as is usual , in giving an Account of some Books .

