392 Motion of a Body exposed to Heat and Light .
[ Mar. 23 , was concentrated on the light-mill , which then revolved about 200 times a minute .
The light was cut of\#163 ; at the beginning of the experiment by means of a screen , and the position of rest of the glass vessel was read off by means of the dot of light on the scale .
The screen waa then suddenly removed , and in every case a large deflection of the glass vessel was observed .
The vessel was deflected in the opposite direction to that in which the mill turned .
When the velocity of the mill had become constant , the vessel returned to its original position .
On suddenly cutting off the light the vessel was again deflected , but in the opposite direction to that on starting the experiment .
The vessel therefore now turned in the same direction in which the mill turned .
These experiments are easily explained on the assumption that the force acting on the vessel enclosing the light-mill is exactly equal and opposite to that acting on the mill itself .
While the velocity of the mill in one direction is increasing , a force acts in the opposite direction on the vessel .
When the velocity has become constant , the force which tends to drive the mill round is exactly counterbalanced by the resistance which opposes the motion of the mill .
The two forces acting on the vessel will therefore counterbalance , and the vessel will return to its original position of rest .
When the light is cut off , the resistance will stop the motion of the mill .
The reaction of the resistance will act on the enclosure , and the enclosure will turn in the same direction as the mill .
By means of the reaction on the enclosure I have been able to calculate the strength of the force ; and I have found that the pressure on a surface on which light of equal intensity to that used in my experiments falls , is equal to that produced by the weight of a film of water on a horizontal surface equal in thickness to the length of a wave of violet light .
III .
a On the Number of Figures in the Period of each Reciprocal of a Prime from 53,000 to 60,000/ ' By W. Shanks .
Communicated by the Rev. G. Salmon , D.D. , F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Divinity in the University of Dublin .
Received March 1st , 1876 .
[ In two former papers printed in the Proceedings ( vol. xxii .
pp. 200 and 384 ) the author gave similar tables from 1 to 30,000 ; and in a subsequent paper ( Proceedings , vol. xxiii .
p. 260 ) , which was ordered to be preserved in the Archives , the table was extended to 40,000 .
A MS .
copy of the addition appended to printed copies of his former paper and extended to 53,000 was presented by the author to the Society 's library , and to this the present continuation from 53,000 to 60,000 will be attached .
]

