]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. On the of the Specific of in Absolute Measure .
J. VIRIAMU JONES , Principal and Professor of Physics in the University of South Wales Monmouthshire , Communicated by Professor CLIFTON , F. Received August 8 , \mdash ; Read November 20 , 1890 .
S1 .
" " ON the whole I am of opinion that if it is desirable at the present time to construct apparatus on the most favourable scale , so as to reach the highest attainable accuracy , the modification of LORENZ'S method last described is the one that offers the best prospect of success .
Before this is done however , it appears to me important that the value now three times obtained in the Cavendish Laboratory by distinct methods should be approximately verified ( or disproved ) by other physicists .
To distinguish between this value and those obtained for instance by KOHLBAUSCH , by LORENZ , or by the , First B.A. , should not require the con struction of unusually costly apparatus .
Until the larger question is disposed of it appears premature to discuss the details of arrangements from the highest degree of precision is to be expected The above passage , which .
concludes a paper communicated by Lord RAYLEIGH to the 'Philosophical Magazine , ' a little before the Electrical Congress at Paris , at which the legal ohm was defined to be the resistance of a column of mercur .
of 1 .
mm. section and 1060 mm. long , seems not to have met with adequate response in this country .
So far as experiments in English Laboratories are concerned the * ' Phil. Mag November , 1882 , 'Comparison of Methods for the Determination of Resistances in Absolute Measul determination of the ohm remains where Lord RAYLEIGH left it , except for the contribution made by GLAZEBROOK and FITZPATRICK in re-measurement of the Specific Resistance of Mercury in terms of the B.A. Unit , which is one of .
the elements in the determination of the Specific Resistance of Mercury in Absolute Measure by Lord RAYLEIGH'S adaptation of LORENZ'S method .
The measurements to be described in this paper were uxldertaken in the hope of paving the way for the final determination referred to by LORD RAYLEIGH ; and with a view of submitting to the test of experiment certain modifications of LOBENZ'S method , which had occurred to the author as likely to lead to increased accuracy and certainty .
Therefore , though the results are given it is asked that the work should be regarded rather as justifying a suggested method of measurement than as pretending to be a satisfactory or final determination of the physical constant sought .
Probably the experiments are sufficient to make good the statement that , if the apparatus be constructed on a scale a little larger and with a certain perfecting of detail , a single set of obselvations will give a result accurate to 1 part in 10,000 ; and the author is of opinion an eyen greater accuracy may be obtained by the method if due regard be paid to the maintenance of definite temperatures in all parts of the apparatns .
S2 .
In LORENZ'S method a metallic disc is made to rotate in the mean plane of a co-axial standard coil Wires touching the centre and circumference of the disc are led to the ends of the resistance to be measured ; and the same current is passed through this resistance and the standard coil .
The connections being rightly made we may by varying either the rate of rotation of the disc or the resistance to be measured , so arrange matters as to have no change of current in the circuit of the disc and wires joining it to the ends of the resistance , when the direction of the current through the resistance and the standard coil is changed .
When this arrangement is effected there is a balance between the electromotive force dne to the motion of the disc in the magnetic field of the current in the standard coil , and the difference of potential at the of the resistance , due to the current traversing it .
If this adjustment be made we will say that the apparatus is in an equilibrium position .
If coefficient of mutual induction of the standard coil and the circumference of the disc , rate of rotation of the disc ( number of revolutions per second ) , resistance , current through the standard coil and the resistance , then in an equilibrium position Mn7 or The variations in the method introduced in the present investigation are mainly the following : ( i ) use of a standard coil wit ] one layer of wire on it .
RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTh The elimination by a system of differential measurements of the errors that have so far attended the use of a mercury column as the measured resistance .
S3 .
The Standard Coil .
\mdash ; The coil ( Plate 1 , figs. 1 and 2 ) , is of uble silk covered copper wire of about .
inch diameter , resting in a screw ] read o inch pitch , cut on a hollow cylinder of brass of approximately 10 inches and 105 inches internal and external radius .
The axial length of the cylinder is something over five inches and 185 buros of wire are wound on it .
Precise details of its are given later .
The lathe on which the cylinder was turned was made for the College Workshop by Sir J. WHITWOBTH and Co. with special care , and it is an exceptionally massive and accurate tool .
The brass cylinder has three lugs , by which it was bolted to the face plate of the lathe , the outside faces of the lugs having been carefully scraped to fit the plate .
In use the cylinder is bolted in precisely similar fashion to a strong triangnlar brass frame , supported on hree levelling screws ( as shown in Plate 1 , figs. 1 and 2 ) ; so that it is used in a position as like as possible to that in which it was turned .
The first operation was to fit the lugs roughly to the face plate by filing , and a roughing cut was taken over the entire surface of the cylinder , so as to get rid of as much as possible of the internal strain due to unequal cooling of the casting .
It was then unbolted ; the lugs were carefully scraped to fit the face plate , and the final turning proceeded with .
Very fine cuts were taken in finishing , and it was hoped by these precautions that we should secure a true right circular cylinder .
Nevertheless our subsequent measureme1lts show that the section of the cylinder at right angles to its axis is slightly oval .
It appears , indeed , to be a task of no ordinary difficulty to turn a cylinder of large size that shall remain true to the thousandth of an inch .
The screw thread of 40 turns to the inch was next cut on the cylinder to a depth of about012 inch .
It is necessary for purposes of adjustment to know the mean plane of the screw thread .
The next operation was , therefore , directed to find this plane , and to mark the circle of its intersection with the inner surface of the cylinder .
A microscope and a -tool were fixed to the slide rest , the microscope beiog at right angles to the lathe bed , and the tool being adjusted so that the image of its point was at the central mark of the graduated plate in the eye-piece of the microscope .
The microscope and tool were placed in such a position that when the slide rest moved forward the microscope remained outside and the tool passed inside the cylinder .
A wheel of inches radius divided into 360 parts on its circumference was ttached to the guide screw , which is of pitch inct ] .
A tentt ] of a division on the wheel could be estimated with tolerable accuracy .
A generating line was then drawn on the outside of the cylinder , and the microscope was focussed so as to bring the ridges of the screw thread on this line into the fieJd of view .
Next the guide screw was turned so as to bring first the right hand and then the left hand ridge of the first thread on to the central in the field of view .
The mean of the readings of the wheel in these two positions was taken to be the reading for the centre of the hollow .
The wheel and guide screw were then turned until first the right hand and then the left hand ridges of the last thread on the cylinder were in like manner brought on to the central mark , the mean of these readings being again taken as the reading for the centre of the .
The number of turns and fractions of a turn made in order to bring the microscope from the first position to the second position gives the axia ] length between the first and last hollows on the generating line .
By adding half this number to the reading for the first hollow , the reading for the mean plane was obtained .
The wheel and guide screw were then moved to this position , and a circle was cut inside the cylinder .
This circular cut is used in lSting the mean plane of the coil to the plane of the disc .
Small holes were then radially bored through the brass of the cyIinder from the points where the generating line along which the measurements had been taken intersected the first and last hollows , and these holes were bushed with well paraffined ebonite .
The next step was to wind the wire in the screw thread .
The wire was led from the bobbin over a pulley fixed some feet above it , under a movable pulley with a weight attached , over another fixed pulley , and finally under a pulley fixed to the slide rest which delivered it into the screw thread on the brass cylinder .
The object of the movable pulley with the weight attached was to keep the tension in the wire uniform during the winding .
One end of the wire was passed through the left hand small hole bushed with ebonite above referred to , and secured ; the guide screw was then thrown in gear and the cylinder as rotated drew the wire uniformly into place .
When the winding was complete the wire was clamped about three inches from the right hand hole until the cut end was passed through and drawn tight .
Melted paraffin was then run into the holes in the bushes to secure the- ends of the wire .
Blocks of ebonite were afterwards attached to the brass cylinder at the ends of the generating line before-mentioned ; and binding screws were fixed in them , to which the ends of the were soJdered .
Tests , the details of which are given in S21 , show that the coil is well insulated .
The advantage in constructing a standard coil with a single layer of wire is that every part of it is visible , and that nothing is done to alter the position of the wire after measurements are made .
If a coil consists of many layers , it is not quite easy to say where the lower layers place themselves after measurement under the pressure of the superincumbent layers .
Lord RAYLEIGH* found , in the case of certain coils used by him , that the mean radius calculated from measurements made in winding was greater by 1 part in 2000 than the mean radius calculated from measurements made in unwinding , a result clearly due to the displacement of the lower layers ( ' Phil. Trans 1882 ) ( cf. GLAZE* Phil. Trans 1882 , pp. 673-4 .
RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE ASURE .
5 BROOX and SARGANT , 'Phil .
Trans 1883 , ) .
We should therefore expect that if the mean radius of a coi of many layers is calculated from measurements made in winding it will be reckoned too large .
In the face of this , it is interesting to note that in the measurements made by Lord RAYLEIGH and Mrs. SIDGWICK by the method of LORENZ , the series in which the coils are so placed as to make the induction coefficient " " nearly independent of a knowledge of the mean radius gives a result rather larger than the other series , which is what might be expected if the mean radius is overestimated .
But the smallness of the variation ( about 1 part in 10,000 ) seems to show that the error of mean radius must be very small for the pair of coils ( wound by Professor ) used by Lord RAyLEIGH in these experiments .
In general , we should expect , as far as this cause goes , that values of the specific resistance in determining which coils of many ayers are used , would come out too low , since an overestimation of the mean radius means an underestimation of the coefficient of mutual induction .
The apparent disadvantage in a coil of a single layer is that the number of turns be fewer , and , therefore , the coefficient of mutual induction of the coil and disc smaller than in the case of a coil of many layers .
For some purposes this might be a grave objection ; but it is not so for the work in hand .
Although the coefficient of mutual induction of the coil and disc is only a little more than one-twentieth of that of Lord RAYLEIGH'S coils an disc in the first and second series of his measurements by the method of LORENZ , yet it seems ample for the purpose .
In order , however , to get a sufficient number of turns on the coil of a single layer , its axial length is made too long to allow of our calculating the coefficient of mutual ion of the coil and disc by Lord RAYLEIGH'S formula of approximation .
It , therefore , became necessary to calculate a new formula , which was obtained by the direct integration of the expression for a circle and coaxial helix , and communicated to the Pbysical Society ( vide 'Phil .
Mag Jan. , 1889 ) .
By Lord RAYLEIGH'S formula the coefficient in these experiments would be given as , its value by the formula for circle and helix being .
The difference amply confirms the need of the new formula for a coil of such axial length as that used .
S4 .
The Use of Mercury Column by the Differential Method.\mdash ; The smallness of the resistance to be measured has usually been regarded as one of the difficulties of LORENZ'S method .
If , on the one hand , mercury has been used , there has been the difficulty of calculating the specific resistance from the measured resistance of the mercury filling a glass tube of a large sectional area ; while , on the other hand , where solid conductors have been used there has been the difficulty of comparing the resistances measured with ordinary standards .
Lord RAYLEIGH , by a shunt method , overcame the latter difficulty .
But , notwithstanding the success which attended the use of this method , it has seemed better to the author to revert to LORENZ'S use of mercury .
physical constant to be measured is the specific resistance of mercury .
If this can , by direct measurement , be determined with accuracy , it seems inconvenient and undesirable first to determine the resistance of the B.A. unit in absolute measure , and then to determine the specific resistance of mercury in B.A. units .
If , consistently with accuracy , the artificial B.A. unit can be dropped out of our experiments as well as out of the ] , the measurements being made direct on mercury , the simplicity would seem to be a recommendation .
The difficulty in the way of using mercury in a glass tube presented itself thus : if the wires from the disc ( the terminal portions of which may be called the electrodes ) are led to the ends of the tube , the equipotential surfaces touched by them are not plane ; and if they are let into the tnbe at some distance from the ends , it is difficult to see how the distance between them is to be determined with the requisite accuracy .
Both these difficulties disappear if , instead of placing the mercury in a glass tube , it is placed in a long trough , and if , instead of measuring the distance between the electrodes , one electrode is kept fixed while measurement is made of the distance moved through by the other between two equilibrium positions corresponding to two different rates of rotation of the disc .
The latter measurement it is easy to make with accuracy , for the movable rode may be rigidly attached to the movable headstock of a Whitworth measuring machine , or some other measunngbank placed parallel to the length of the trough .
The two equilibrium positions may be taken near the middle of the trough , so as to avoid danger of curvature in the equipolential surfaces passing through the electrode in its two positions .
Let be the rates of rotation of the disc , and let be the between the corresponding equilibrium positions of the movable electrode .
Then where specific resistance of mercury , and area of section of the mercury column .
But we are met by a new difficulty , the determination of the section of the mercury column .
The capillary depression at the sides of the trough would make it a serious task to determine the section by direct measurement to the required degree of accuracy .
Fortunately this difficulty may be overcome by a further differential method , viz. , by making observations with the mercury at two different heights in the trough .
Let breadth of the trough , difference of height of the mercury surface in its two positions , and let section of the mercury column when the mercury surface is at the ] ower position .
RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
Then we have , denoting by letters the new values of the rates of rotation and the between the corresponding equilibrium positions , and whence , eliminating , we have It is assumed in the above ca]culation that the sides of the trough are plane , parallel , and vertical ; and that the temperature remains constant .
Hence the determination of the specific resistance involves the determination Four equilibrium positions , two at each depth , with the rates of rotation of the disc to which they correspond .
( ii .
) The breadth of the trough .
( iii .
) The difference of level of the mercury surface at the two depths .
( iv .
) The coefficient of mutual induction of the coil and disc . .
The general arrangement of the apparatus used in the experiments to be described is shown in Plate 2 , fig. 5 .
M. Electromotor . .
Flexible coupling . .
Bearings .
W. Fly-wheel .
Dr. Cylinder , with rows of black and white teeth , for measurement of rate of F. Tuning-fork box .
C. Standard coil .
D. Disc .
E. Battery of secondary cells . .
Whitworth measuring machine . .
Loose headstock on measuring machine .
Z. Fixed \ldquo ; Tr. Mercury trough . .
Iron plates to which the battery wires are soldered . .
Thermometers giving the temperature of the mercury in the trough . .
Spherometer .
O. Movable electrode .
P. Fixed electrode .
X , X , X , X. Box surrounding trough and measuring machine . .
Keys . .
Coil for adjusting the induction , so as to obtain the required throw of the galvanometer needle when the current is reversed at .
Coil for adjusting , so that reversal of the battery current shall produce no effect on the galvanometer needle when the galvanometer circuit is broken .
G. Galvanometer .
S. Lamp and scale .
S6 .
The Mercury Trough.\mdash ; The trough used was cut in paraffin wax , and was prepared in the following manner .
A strong casting of iron was made with its sides strengthened by outside ribs , as shown in Plate 2 , figs. 6 , 7 , and 8 .
Its internal dimensions are inches in length , by about 3 inches in breadth , by about 4 ches in depth .
To fill it with paraffin wax , the casting was placed with its central part over a stove , and BUNSEN burners were inserted under the projecting ends .
Paraffin wax , cut in small pieces , was then put in the trough , and as this melted , more wax was added until the trough was quite full of molten paraffin .
The fire and burners were then removed , and the whole left to cool slowly .
After a solid coat had formed on the surface , a hole was made through it to the liquid paraffin in the interior , and through this hole a further quantity of melted wax was poured during the progress of solidification .
This process was continued until the iron case was filled with solid paraffin wax .
The case so filled was then fastened to the bed of the lathe with its length parallel to the run of the bed and the free paraffin surface upwards .
A cutter attached to the slide rest rotating about 2,000 turns per minute round a vertical axis was used to cut out the required channel in the paraffin wax , the channel being approximately inches long by inches broad by 3 inches deep .
When the channel was cut for the first time a certain number of air holes were found in the base and lateral faces .
Experiments on a smaller trough had , however , shown that these might be satisfactorily removed by depositing paraffin wax in a thin layer on the sides and base of the channel , and re-cutting .
This was successfully accomplished for the large trough , and a uniform surface was secured .
The channel was finished by carrying a scraper from end to end which took a very cut off both faces and base .
The result of the scraping was a very smooth and highly finished surface .
It was thought that the breadth of the trough might be obtained by measuring the width of the scraper .
But they were not found to be equal when the breadth of the trough was subsequently measured .
The difference amounts to 006 or 007 inch the width of the scraper being the greater .
This difference may be due in part to the fact that the measurement of the trough was made at a different temperature ( about C. ) to that at which it was cut .
Unfortunately the latter temperature was not registered .
This method of obtaining a channel for t , he mercury was adopted in the hope that RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
so cut in the lathe , it might present a breadth constant to about the ten-thousandth of an inch .
This hope was not realised .
The results of calibrating the trough over the ten inches of it , used in the course of the experiments , are given in S28 .
Probably more satisfactory results might be obtained by building up the trough of worked glass or scraped marble .
The objections to the use of paraffin wax The softness of the wax makes it necessary to proceed with great care in measuring its breadth lest damage should be done to the surface .
This difficulty is satisfactorily surmounted by the form of internal callipers adopted in the calibration .
( ii .
) The coefficient of expansion of pa , raffin wax is very large .
It was found by making measurements with the Whitworth Measurin Machine on a bar of paraffin wax , 12 inches long , that the linear coefficient of expansion is as much as 0003 .
Distortion would therefore be the result of varying the temperature , since the wax is enclosed in an iron casing .
The danger of inaccuracy due to this cause was.met by measurin the breadth of the trough at a temperature as nearly as possible the same as that at which the electrical observations were made , care being taken to maintain the trough at a uniform temperature during the observations .
As will be seen from Table VI .
the extreme temperature readings do not from one another by more than C. But , notwithstanding this care , the author is of opinion that the difference in the results of different sets of observations depends the main upon variations in the trough due to varying temperature .
S7 .
The disc , axle , and bearings are of phosphor bronze .
The details are sllown in Plate 1 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 .
The ratio of the radii of disc and coil is 61635 , very nearly that used in the measurements of Lord RAYLEIGH .
The disc is insulated from the axle by well paraffined ebonite ( Plate 1 , fig. 3 ) ; otherwise there would be a short-circuiting of part of the radius of the disc through the bearings and bed .
It was at first intended to drive the disc by rope gearing from the electromotor , but in the course of preliminary experiments , though the rope was 40 yards long , and the joining of the ends took ] over a length of quite six feet , there was a sudden variation in speed , visible at the time-measuring tuning fork , and producing a distinct movement of the galvanometer needle , whenever the joint passed over the pulley .
The rope gearing was therefore abandoned , and the motor coupled direct , as in the figure .
Unfortunately , by an oversight , the part of the axle , ( Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) , joining the motor to the previously prepared part of the apparatus was made of steel instead of phosphor bronze , and the presence of the stee ] has some slight effect ( about parts in 10,000 ) on the coefficient of mut'ual induction of the coil and disc .
No permanent magnetic field in the steel cts the result ; but the greater permeability of the steel increases the coefficient of mutual induction .
The disc was ground true in place by means of a small emery wheel driven by an electromotor , the disc at the same time being rotated .
PROFESSOR J. V. JONES ON THE DETHiRMINATION OF THE SPECIFIC S8 .
The brushes are of phosphor bronze wire , of diameter116 inch .
brush resting on the circumference of the disc at first gave great trouble .
It was found impossible with an ordinary brush made of a number of layers of thin phosphor bronze sheet , and controlled by a spring , to obtain sufficiently constant readings at the galvanometer , however well the circumference of the disc and the brush were ioitially amalgamated .
Trials were made in the hope of improvement with amalgamated copper and amalgamated lead , and with the substitution of a dead weight pressure for the spring .
But no satisfactory result could be obtained .
It was noticed , however , that after amalgamation the readings were fairly steady for a short interval ; and it seemed likely that if mercury could be continuously supplied to the surface of contact between the brush and the disc , the electromotive force ab their contact would be rendered much more constant .
This led on to the idea of a brush consisting of a single wire , perforated by a channel , through which a constaut flow of mercury might be maintained from a cistern of adjustab]e height and a brush of this description was finally opted , the details of which are shown at at , Plate 1 , figs. 3 and 4 .
A piece of copper , an inch long and inch square , has a hole , 25 inch diameter , drilled to a depth of 75 inch , and at right angles to this a second hole of sectional area slightly larger than that of the phosphor bronze wire brush .
In the wire brush a channel03 inch diameter is drilled to the deptb of about an inch , and the wire is brazed into the copper piece , as shown in the vings .
A small hole is then made with a fine pointed drill , connecting the oavity in the copper piece with ths channel in the wire .
The brush being in place , an india-rubber tube is passed ver the free end of the copper piece , which carries to the brush a constant supply of mercury from the cistern .
When the apparatus is in use , the height of the , cistern is adjusted so that a continuous stream of mercury is dragged out of the brush by the rotating disc .
The extent to which this new form of brush meets the difficulty of varying electromotive force at the contact is best estimated by the actual galvanometer readings taken in the course of the experiments which are detailed in Tables It certainly presents very great advantages over any other form of brush tried .
The central brush is made in similar fashion , but it is not necessary to have so rapid a flow of mercury .
It is sufficient to make the cavity in the copper piece of the mercury cistern and to replenish it at intervals .
The details of its position relatively to the disc are showri in fig. 3 .
It enters the disc to a depth inch .
S 9 .
The motor used is a Siemens Dynamo machine , to which a steel fly-wheel has been fitted , as shown at in Plate 2 , fig. 5 , the current being obtained from secondary cells .
The current passes through resistance coils , and may also be varied continuously through a small range by a slide resistance of platinoid wire after the larger adjustment has been made .
A shunt worked by a lever provides means of taking out or putting in a small resistance suddenly , as to allow the observer taking note of the speed to Of these tables only Table I. is printed .
The others are very similar .
RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MHiASURE .
counteract small variations due to alteration in the lubrication of the bearings and the friction of the brushes on the commutator of the motor .
The bearings have a length about six times their diameter , and all the bearings are fitted with sight feed lubricators .
The proper lubrication of the bearings seems to be of the greatest importance .
In making any final determination it would be necessary to obtain a more constant rate of rotation than has yet been realised , and to maintain it , as far as possible , without interference from the observer .
A better result may , perhaps , be achieved if a forced system of lubrication is adopted .
The motor brushes would also need further attention .
S10 .
The measurement of the rate of rotation is made with the help of a tuning fork by the method of MACLEOD and CLARKE ( ' Phil. Trans 1880 ) .
At Dr , Plate 2 , fig. 5 , there is attached to the axle a concentric brass cylinder ( made in two pieces , subsequently bolted together round the axle ) , on the blackened surface of which are painted eleven rows of white teeth , the teeth in any row being equidistant , and the number of teeth in the rows being 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 15 , 17 , 19 , 21 , respectively .
In front of this cylinder , or drum , is placed a Koenig tuning fork of pitch approximately 64 , the prongs of which have .
screwed into their ends pieces of brass with narrow central slits about an inch long , parallel to the length of the fork .
At the centre of each slit a cross-wire is placed at right angles to its length .
The fork is enclosed in a box and a thermometer divided to tenths of a degree is placed between the prongs .
The tuning fork is vertical , so that the displacement of any point of a slit is at right angles to that of a tooth .
Fig. 11 .
When the disc is rotating and the fork in vibration , for an observer looking through the fork ] at the drum , any point of the slit is illuminated , while a white space is passing the line joining the observer 's eye to the point of the slit looked at , and unilluminated while a dark space is passing that line .
If the interval between the passage of successive white teeth is equal to the periodic time of the fork , any point of the slit looked at will appear fixed in one position , but the position will be different each point , and the slit as a whole will be seen as an undulating line ( fig. 11 ) , stationary if the synchronism is exact , and if not varying so as to give the appearance of a wave moving one way or the other according as the interval between the passage of two teeth is less or greater the periodic time of the fork .
In practice it is better , however , to adjust so that the interval between the passage of two teeth is half the periodic time of the fork .
In this case , if the synchronism is exact , any point of the slit is seen as two points in the two positions it occupies when illumination takes place , and the whole slit appears as in fig. 12 .
If the synchronism is not exact , the chain figure appears to move in one direction or the other according as the interval between the passage of successive teeth is greater or less than half the periodic time of the fork .
The advantage of using the second figure rather than the first , is that it is easier by reference to the cross wire at the centre of the slit to tell when the figure is stationary and the synchronism exact .
The box surrounding the fork is blackened ; and two holes , one in front , and one behind , give the observer a line of vision .
The observations are made with the naked eye .
For the chain figure we have , when synchronism is exact , where number of revolutions of the disc per second , number of teeth in the row used , vibration frequency of the tuning fork .
When a first adjustment has been made and the figure is nearly stationary , the direction of its motion indicates whether the rate of rotation is too quick or too slow , and the requlslte change of resistance to obtain synchronism is made the observer .
The fork was not maintained in vibration electrically , but bowed .
It would be more convenient in observing , to use an electrically maintained fork ; but preliminary measurement of the pitch of a fork and of a reed , maintained elect.rically in vibration , tended to throw doubt on them as time-keepers ( vide ' Phil. Mao ' Aril 1889 " " On the Use of LISSAJOUS ' Figures to Determine a Rate of and of a Morse Receiver to Measure the Periodic Time of a Reed or Tuning Fork By the above method , the rate of rotation of the disc is controlled and referred to the fork during the observations .
an re err It remains to indicate how the pitch of the fork was determined .
Th effected by an inverse process .
If , while synchronism is maintained between t RESISTANCE OF MERGURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
rotating apparatus and the fork by keeping the stationary , the number of revolutions in a given time is determined , the pitch of the fork may be calculated from the formula In the present experiments the number of revolutions of the cylinder in a given time was determined by a telegraphic method .
An eccentric ring , fixed on the axle at ( Plate 1 , fig. 2 ) , communicates a vibratory motion in a vertical plane to a small lever horizontal in its mean position .
To the end of the lever is attached a piece of ebonite , through which passes an arched piece of platinum wire , under the ends of which are two mercury cups ; and the mercury cups are so adjusted that , for about half the revolution period , the ends of the platinum wire dip in the mercury , and for the other half are lifted above it .
The circuit of one pen of a BAIN'S Electro-Chemical Telegraph Receiver is completed when the ends of the platinum wire are in the mercury , and broken when they are out .
A series of dashes and spaces is therefore made on the telegraph tape when the disc is rotated , a dash and a space corresponding to one revolution .
Side by side with the record of the tions , a second pen marks the record of the laboratory standard clock .
In the clock , the teeth of the escapement wheel lift a lever once a second , thereby breaking contact in the circuit of the second pen of the receiver .
Lest inequality in the cutting of the teeth of the escapement wheel should introduce an error , the record of an integral multiple of a minute has been taken in the determinations .
To determine the vibration frequency of the fork , it is only necessary to maintain the figure chosen stationary for three or four minutes while the clock and rotating apparatus make their records side by side upon the tape .
Counting the tape , we obtain the late of rotation of the cylinder , and hence , by the formula , the vibration frequency of the fork .
The results of determinations of the vibration frequency of the fork by this method are given in S 27 .
S11 .
The measuring machine was made by Sir J. WHITWORTH and Co. , and is similar to the ten-thousandth machines ordinarily made by them , except that its bed is of unusual length .
It will receive and measure lengths up to 40 inches .
To the loose headstock ( Plate 3 , figs. 17 , 18 ) is attached arm Are , which projects at right angles to the length of the bed , and in it the movable electrode is fixed .
A screw to move the loose runs along the centre of the graduated bed , and carries at the end , remote from the fixed headstock , a wheel , ( Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) , divided on its circumference into 500 parts .
The pitch of the screw is inch , and therefore one division on the wheel , , corresponds to 001 inch .
The readings for the position of the movable electrode were , during the experiments , taken on this screw and wheel .
The screw , however , not of guaranteed accuracy , and therefore the distance between the equilibrium positions has been subsequently measured by reference to the standard bars .
In Table VI .
the corrected values of are obtained in this way , the uncorrected values being the differences of the readings on the long screw .
S12 .
The wires of the battery circuit are indicated in Plate 2 , fig. 5 .
The current enters and leaves the mercury in the trough by iron plates , , placed vertically at the ends of it .
The plates are 5 inches long , inch broad , and 25 inch thick .
Some trouble was found in keeping t , he plates when left in contact with the mercury free of rust ; they required frequent cleaning .
The battery consisted of 12 secondary cells coupled in series ; and the resistance of the circuit is such that the current used is something less than 5 ampere .
The wires from the battery are led to the key , and thence to the commutator .
The latter is of the form described by the author at the British Association meeting at Aberdeen ( vide ' Electrician , ' vol. 15 , p. 370 ) .
A wire from bhe commutator goes through the standard coil to the iron plate , , at one end of the trough ; and from the plate , , at the other end , a wire passes through the coil to the commutator .
The object of the coil will be subsequently explained .
The wires of the disc and nometer circuit are also shown in Plate 2 , fig. 5 .
The brushes are connected.by flexible pieces of copper tape to the ends of the stiff .cable of the circuit .
The cable is seven strands , No. 16 B.W.G. copper wire , thickly insulated with vulcanised rubber .
The cable from the central brush passes to the movable electrode in the trough ; from the fixed electrode it passes through the coil ( the object of which is explained hereafter , and which consists of only two or three turns ) to the galvanometer key , , and thence to the copper tape attached to the outside brush .
Great care was taken in insulating the battery and galvanometer circuits .
The central brush was placed to earth through a gas pipe . .
The electrodes are of platinum wire.04 inch in diameter , and descend vertically into the mercury , the lower ends being bent so as to be horizontal for about inch .
Before they were placed in position the end of each was pointed , and the whole wire was thickly covered with paraffin wax .
The wax was then shaved awa at the end until the platinum pomt only just emerged so as to secure as nearl as ossibl away at en definite point of contact between the electrode and the mercuras near as possl a .
eeg The hei ht of th electrode points above the bottom of the trough was about5 inch .
S13 .
Spherometer.\mdash ; The spherometer is shown drawn uart full size in Plate 3 figs. 9 and 10 .
It consists of a steel screw V , of pitch , iron stand , provided with three levelJing screws .
The eh , supported on a stifl divided into 360 divisions , and a scale , is provided to mark com 1 arge ead , on the top is The end of the screw is turned down to a very fine point and hi hl olished .
comp ete turns .
A mercury cup , is provided , by means of which a wire coming y wire a th could be placed in electrical contact with the scre , the other through a neter could be abatte1y rom battery being soldered to the iron plate ( Plate 2 , fi placed in electrical communication with the .
) , and thereby mercury the trough .
TANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
The position of the mercury surface in the .
is determined by moving the spherometer screw downwards until the passage of a current through the galvanometer indicates that the circuit is complete .
It is of the utmost importance that the point of the screw should be kept clean , otherwise successive observations may differ from one another as much as 001 inch ; but , with clean mercury , if the point is carefully wiped with filter paper before making the observations , half-a-dozen observations may be without difficulty obtained , none of which differ from the mean by more than inch .
One division on the head is equal to inch , and the head is large enough to allow of an accurate estimation of tenths of a division .
To preserve the point , sparking at the mercury surface should be reduced as much as possible .
With this view , a lalge resistance is inserted in the circuit , and , between successive observations , contact is broken at the galvanometer before the screw is raised .
Details of the calibration of the spherometer screw are given in S29 .
The mercury used has been several times treated with nitric acid and distilled .
S14 .
Thermometers.\mdash ; The thermometers are three in number , one at each end of trough , and one between the prongs of the fork .
They were made by NEGRETTI and ZAMBRA , and are graduated to tenths of a degree .
The two trough thermometers were sent to Kew for correction , and it is the corrected temperatures that are inserted in Tables I.-V .
* S15 .
It has already been pointed out that the trough must suffer distortion if the temperature varies , the breadth towards the central part becoming less as the temperature increases .
After the experiments were concluded , a measurement taken at C. , and the breadth of the trough was found to be inch , the breadth at C. being inch .
This gives a decrease of breadth of per degree or .
If , then , the temperature of the paraffin wax could be determined with accuracy , correction might be made in each set of observations for that temperature .
But the wax is a poor conductor of heat , and it takes a long time to assume the temperature of the medium in which it is placed , and different portions of it are likely to be at different temperatures , unless the temperature of the surrounding space has remained for a very long time constant .
An attempt was , therefore , made to keep a temperature as constant as possible during the course of the observations .
The trough and measuring machine were enclosed in a wooden box X , Plate 2 , fig. 5 , covered with several layers of felt paper , and felt curtains were slung round it from a beam above .
The thermometers in the trough could be read through windows the box by lifting the curtain ; and everything was so arranged that a set of observations could be taken without opening the box further than to l.emove for a short time one of the glass windows .
The windows were eight inches high by two inches broad .
note , p. 10 .
The room outside was kept as nearly as could be at C. , which was taken as standard temperature throughout the observations .
The extreme variation of temperature in the box did not amount to more than half a degree during the month in which the observations were taken .
The motor , bearin gs , coil , trough , and measuring machine all rest on slate slabs placed on brick pillars built on the four feet of concrete forming the floor of the laboratory .
It is of great importance that the trough supports should be such as to free it from all vibration ; otherwise waves on the mercury render the spherometer readings uncertain .
S16 .
The nometer.\mdash ; The galvanometer used was a Thomson reflecting galvanometer , made by ELLIOTT , of resistance ohm .
The suspension , however , was altered .
The vertical brass-piece ordinarily bearing the compensating magnet was replaced by a glass tube surmounted by brass fittings giving the usual suspension adjustments .
The suspending fibre was a quartz thread about thirteen inches long , one of a number kindly sent to the author by Mr. BoYS .
As suspending fibres for galvanometer needles , it is difficult to praise these fibres too highly .
They will give a constant zero in a field many times weaker than the weakest in which it would be possible to use silk fibres .
With the galvanometer in question the period of oscillation with a quartz fibre could be made as much as twenty-one or twenty-two seconds , while still maintaining a zero as constant as silk gave with a period of about four seconds .
In the course of the experiments the oscillation period was about eight seconds .
The distance of the scale ( Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) from the galvanometer was forty inches .
The divisions of the scale are forty to the inch ; and the readings were taken through a large magnifying glass .
Adjustment of the Instruments and Method of Observation .
S17 .
The first operation was to place the frame supporting the axle of the rotating disc in such a position that the axis of rotation should be approximately right angles to the magnetic meridian , and the plane of the disc therefore in the plane of the meridian .
The object was to get rid , as far as possible , of any induction current in the disc due to a magnetic field , other than that of the cun.ent throu the standard coil .
In the event it proved that this current was so small as to need no special compensating apparatus during the observations .
When no current was passing through the standard coil , the deflection obtained by rotatin the disc did not amount to more than could easily be counteracted by a slight movement of the compensat ng magnet placed on the table at some two feet distance rom the galvanometer .
Attention was next directed to the four bearings , Plate 2 fi ensure smooth and steady rotation .
They were careful]y scraped to correct any slight , , so as to RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
inequalities introduced by ting them down to the brick pillars , and a sight feed lubricator giving about three drops per minute was fitted to each .
The shaft of the electromotor was coupled to the axle by a flexible coupling Plate 2 , fig. 5 ; and the disc was then ground true in place as mentioned in S7 .
S 18 .
The adjustment of the standard coil so that it should be co-axial with the disc , and that its mean plane should coincide with the mean plane of the disc , was made with the help of the circular line inside the coil cylinder , the cutting of which been already described in S3 .
To effect this an arm , , Plate 3 , figs. 13 , of adjustable length , had been prepared to fit the disc .
The face at was scraped plane so that when the arm was firmly clamped in the position shown in figs. 13 and 14 , the plane of the face as nearly as possible coincided with the mean plane of the disc .
Great care was taken to effect this by continually reversing the arm during scraping and testing with the help of a straight edge and feeling piece .
It will be subsequently shown that the effect of any possible small error in the accuracy with which this was accomplished is negligible .
The adjustment of the standard coil consists in the coil so that , when the arm on the disc is to proper length , the edge of its face travels , when the disc is turned , over the circle cut on the inside surface of the coil cylinder in the mean plane of the coil S3 ) .
The coil is first moved into position as nearly as may be by eye , and the final adjustments are made by turning the levelling screws , Plate 1 , figs. ] and 2 , and by taps on the coil frame , which move either the levelling screws in the cups over the bases of the cups , or the cups as a whole over the slate slab .
It has already been observed that the coil cylinder is slightly , and hence the , rm could only be made to touch it at two points at the ends of the shortest diameter .
It will be seen from S 24 that the difference between the longest and shortest radius is about008 inch .
S 19 .
To adjust the mercury trough its base must be levelled and its lateral faces made vertical and parallel to the length of the bed of the measuring machine .
The trough was not supported so as to give the requisite number of independent movements to effect these adjustments .
It was therefore brought into position ) successive small movements , the levelling of the base in the direction of its length being tested by a delicate spirit level , and the verticality of the side faces by the same level with t'ne help of an accurate steel square , the stock of which was pressed up against the face .
The parallelism of the faces to the run of the measuring machine was tried by fixing in the electrode arm , Are , Plate 3 , fig. 18 , a turned cylinder and inserting a wooden wedge between the cylinder and the face .
If reading on the wedge is the same when the cylinder is moved from one end of the trough to the other , the required parallelism is obtained .
Further by making the reading when the wedge ; inserbed between the cylinder and the one face the same as when it was inserted between the cylinder and the other , the axis of the cylindrical hole was brought into the median plane of the .
8 PROFESSOR J. .
JONES ON THE TERMlNATION OF THE SPECIFIC trough .
The electrode subsequently inserte was approximately axial to the hole , and therefore nearly in this median plane .
The spherometer was adjusted so that the ided head plate was level both when the instrument was used and when it was calibrated ( vide S 29 ) S 20 .
The apparatus being in and the connecting wires added , it was found that while the galvanometer circuit was broken , a slight deIlection of the galvanometer needle accompanied a change in the direction of the current through the battery circuit .
A compensating coil ( Plate 2 , fig 5 ) , consisting of nearly three turns of the wire of the battery Gircuit , satisfactorily counterbalanced this disturbance of the magnetic field at the needle .
S 21 .
Tests for insulation were next made with an E.M.F. of volts .
The resistance between the wire of the coil and the coil cylinder was found to be more than megohms , that between the disc and axle more than megohms , and that of the completed circuits ( the cups under the levelling screws of the coil being on thin paraffined ebonite plates ) more than megohms .
S 22 .
observations consist fundamentally in the determination of equilibrium positions of the movable electrode , together wit , h the rates of rotation to which they correspond .
In determining an equilibrium position , a definite .e rate of rotation was first obtained by the observer at the tuning-fork and maintained by him , as accurately as , throughout the determination , an assuranCe of stationariness being received from him by the observer at the galvanometer when the readings were being taken .
It was found best , owing Lord RAYLEIGH ( ' Phil. Trans 1883 , " " periments by the Method of LORENZ to determine the Value of the B.A. Unit of Resistance to take two sets of galvanometer readings for each equilibrium position , one set the change of galvanometer reading corresponding to reversal of the battery current for a position slightly to one side of the brium position ; the other , the change of galvanometer readings corresponding to reversal for a second position slightly on the other sido of the equilibrium position .
The galvanometer readings corresponding to the two positions of the commutator being ] , passage through an equilibrium position is indicated by a change in the algebraic of .
When has been found for two positions slightly differing from one another , and including between them the equilibrium position , the latter may be deduced by simple interpolation .
Since the readings and are not quite fixed owing t , o small changes in the speed of the disc and slight variations at the brush coutacts , it is necessary to take a number of reversals and to find \mdash ; as the mean of the values obtained by combining the first value of with the ffist of , the second of with the first of , the second of with the second of , \amp ; c. The more quickly the reversals can be made to succeed one another the better will be the results , for with rapid reversals , RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN TE variations in the position of the needle corresponding to no current through standard coil are less likely to supervene .
It is , therefore , best not to wait for the needle to come , even approximately , to rest after the disturbance due to the induction currenlt on reversal , but to take the readings for the extreme positions in an oscillation , and , having previously found the co-efficient of damping , to calculate the position of rest from these two readings .
The coil ( Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) is used to adjust the induction so that the swing of the needle at reversal may be of suitable magnitude for this purpose .
It is advantageous to use the same portion of the trough for the observations at both deptbs of mercury ; any slight irregularities in the base of the trough are then without effect .
The rates of rotation and the depths requisite to effect this were , therefore , determined by preliminary experiments .
It was found that if the depths are approximately and inch that by the use of the rows of 8 and 13 teeth on the drum at the smaller depth , and of 13 and 21 teeth at the greater depth , the required result was secured .
The thermometers in the trough were read immediately before and immediate]y after each pair of sets of nometer readings determiniug an equilibrium position , and the thermometer between the prongs of the tuning-fork before and after each set .
The measurements on the spherometer were made directly before and after the addition of the mercury required to raise the level in the trough from the first to the second height .
The temperatures of the trough.thermometers when each measurement was taken were observed and recorded .
Each spherometer measurement recorded iu Tables I. is the mean of four to six observations , the extreme observations differing from each other by not more than00003 inch .
Details of S23 .
The diameter of the disc was measured in the Whitworth measuring machine .
Measurements were made in four irections , approximately equally inclined to each other , with the following results:\mdash ; The temperature at which the measurements were made was C. note , p. 10 .
flence the radius of the disc at C. inches , and correcting for temperature we have the radius at C. inches .
S24 .
The diameter of the coil was determined in similar fashion , but on account of the silk covering of the wire , the measurement could not be carried to the same degree of accuracy as in the case of the disc .
For this reason , and also because of the ellipticity of the coil cylinder the measurements were much more numerous , and were made along 18 diameters .
The cylinder while still in the lathe had been divided along its into intervals of The mean of a large number of measurements of the diameter of the wire was inch .
The measurements were taken at points equidistant , or nearly so , along a length of about 10 yards of wire .
Subtracting the diameter of the wire from the measured outside diameter of the coil we obtain as the mean diameter from the axis of the wire on one side to the axis of the wire on the other : and hence .
the mean radius at C. , and correcting for temperature the mean 1adius at C. RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE , Calculation of the Coefficient .
S25 .
It has been shown by the author*that the coefficient of mutual induction of a circle and co-axial helix , the circle being in the mean plane of the .
and the helix consisting of a whole number of turns , is given by the formula:\mdash ; ( I. ) where radius of a circular section of the cylinder determined by the helix , radius of the circle , axial length of the helix , and being equal to As the formula has not previously been used for the ca]culation of the induction coefficient , it may be of utility to indicate the method of calculation that has been found convenient .
For our present purpose it will be sufficient if six terms of the series are found .
Let ; then . . . . .
( II .
) and Observing and $ ' ' On the Calculation of the Coefflcient of Mutual Induction of a Cirole and a Coaxal Helix communicated to the Physical Society in November , 1888 ( ' Phil. Mag Jan. , 1889 ) .
where and are the complete ellipt , ic to modulus , and the relation we have The calculation may now be conducted systematically as follows:\mdash ; Calculate , \amp ; .
or denoting differentiation with regard to by a dot . .
\amp ; .
These may be successively calculated from the equa , tion and its derivatives ( ii .
) Calculate from the equation and its derivatives ( iii .
) Calculate from the equation RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
and its derivatives ( iv .
) Calculate from the equation and its derivative Calculate from the equation Calculate from the values of , by successive applications of Equation For the coil and the circumference of the disc we have : 6.49493 2 .
4 .
4 .
6 .
, . . .
and Two small corrections are needed in order to obtain from he above value of the actual coefficient of mutual induction used in the experiments , viz. the correction for the central brush , and the correction for the iron in the field .
The radius of the central brush inch : and the coefficient of mutual induction of its circumference and the standard coil .
Subtracting t , his from the coefficient of mutual induction of the circumference of the disc and the coil we have The number of turns on the coil is 185 , .
The iron in the field consists of the steel axle ( Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) , the steel fly-wheel , and the iron of the motor .
The fly-wheel and motor iron will , on account of their distance , hardly affect the result to a greater extent than the probable error of the mean of the five sets of observations ( Tables I.-V .
) .
But the effect of the steel in the part of the axle is appreciable .
It was estimated and allowed for as follows .
A steel bar of the same dimensio n prepared which could be placed in a position on the other side of the coil and disc symmetrical with regard to their mean plane RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
to that occupied by the axle .
A series of observations were then made of the equilibrium positions of the movable electrode with the steel bar in and out of place , the rate of rotation and the level of the mercury in the trough being constant , and proper corrections being introduced for temperature in the indicated later in S31 .
Let coefficient of mutual induction with the steel bar away .
coefficient of mutual induction with the steel bar in place .
initial distance between the two electrodes .
distance moved through by the movable e]ectrode to its new equilibrium position when the steel bar is introduced into the field .
Then In the observations made , .
This may be taken as a sufficiently close approximation to the correction that must be added to the calculated coefficient of mutual induction in consequence of the steel axle .
Making this correction , we have as the final value of the coefficient used in the experiments A calculation was made to find the effect of the finite thickness of the wire of the coil on the coefficient of induction .
In the formula it is assumed that the current is concentrated in the axis of the wire .
Calculation showed that the mean of the induction coefficients , obtained on the suppositions that the current is concentrated on the outside and inside of the wire respectively , does not differ from the induction coefficient calculated on the hypothesis that the current is concentrate in the axis of the wire by more than , approximateiy , 1 part in 300,000 .
In the experiments we have the current uniformly distributed over the section of the wire , and the error introduced by supposing the current concentrated in the axis is less than the error calculated in the extreme case taken , and for present purposes quite negligible .
S26 .
It seems proper here to consider the effect on the coefficient of mutual of a possible non-coincidence of the mean planes of the coil and disc .
In making the adjustment ( S18 ) , the edge of the face of the arm , Plate 3 , figs. 13 and 14 , is made to travel over the circular line cut as described in S3 on inside of the coil cylinder .
If the face does not coincide with the mean plane of the disc , and ifthe plane of the line on the coil cylinder does not coincide with the mean plane of the coil , the ad.justment does not bring the mean planes into coincidence , but into positions such that the distance between the mean planes is equal to the algebraical sum of the distance between the plane of the circle described by the edge of and the mean plane of the disc , and the distance between the plane of the circular line in the coil cylinder and the mean plane of the coil .
Having regard to the precautions taken in drawing the line and preparing the arm , the sum of these errors cannot be as much inch .
If the distance between the mean planes is assumed to be half the pitch of the helix , the coefficient of mutual induction may be calculated as follows:\mdash ; we may consider the coefficient in this case to be made up of two parts , viz. , the coefficient of mutual induction of the ence of the and of the portion of the coil of axial length on one side of it , and the coefficient of mutual induction of the circumference of the disc and the portion of the coil of axial length on the other side of it .
Calling the first of these , and the second , we have . .
Or if the distance between the mean planes amounts to one half the itch of th helix , i.e. , to 0125 inch , the coefficient of mutual induction is diminished only by about one part in 300,000 .
Hence there can be no appreciable error due to this cause .
RESISTANCE OF MEROURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
Determination of the Vibration Frequency of the Tuning Fork .
S27 .
The details of two measurements of the vibration frequency of the fork by the method described in S10 are given in the ving tables .
To the degree of accuracy required the clock needed no correction .
Mean S28 .
Calibration of the Trough.\mdash ; The form of the callipers used to measure the breadth of the trough is shown in elevation and plan in Plate 3 , figs. 15 and 16 .
Two side pieces of brass , with their faces scraped plane and parallel , are suspended by silk threads from the wooden framework of the apparatus .
Between The correcting coefflcient usod is that found by MACLEOD and ( Phil. Trans 1880 ) , them are a pair of wedges , , with their faces scraped plane , and such thal , when they are put together , as in the figure , their outside faces are parallel .
The wedge is graduated into twentieths of an inch , and an index mark is placed on the wedge When the apparatus is in the trough , the centre of the brass pieces , is at the mean height of the mercury surface during the measurements recorded in Tables I.-V .
The method of procedure was to use the wedge with the handle attached as a feeling piece , and to push it in until when very slightly lifted it was held in place .
Measurements were made every half-inch along the portion of the trough used .
At each point four l.eadings were taken which are recorded in the table below .
Only in one case do the four readings at any point differ from one another by more than .
division ( inch approximately ) .
The following table contains the results of the trough measurements :\mdash ; .
After the observations in the trough were completed the whole apparatus was transferred to the measuring machine , and the breadth corresponding to given readings of the wedges determined .
The breadth corresponding to the mean reading in the trough was then calculated by simple interpolation .
RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
Wedges transferred to measnring machine .
Wedge readings .
Wedge readings .
Thickness given by measnring machine .
A decrease in thickness of 00 corresponds to a movement of divisions on the wedges . .
The thickness corresponding to the reading of the wedges inch .
S29 .
Calibration of Spherometer Screw.\mdash ; For this purpose the wedges and one of the side pieces !
were used with a Whitworth Surface Plate .
The steel point of the spherometer screw was protected by screwing on an auxiliary brass cover wibh rounded end .
The surface plate was first levelled .
The spherometer was then placed on an independent stand on one side of the plate , so that the screw was over the plate ; and the stand was so adjusted for height that when the spherometer head ( fig. 9 ) was levelled as in S19 , the reading on the head for contact with the wedges when they are placed on the surface plate under the screw point is near the readings for the mercury surface in its lower position given in Tables I.-V .
The reading for the surface of the side piece placed on the wedges will then be near the readings for the mercury surface in its higher position , for each set of observations the difference of level is nearly inch , and the breadth of the side piece is about the same .
In order to determine the reading for contact between the auxiliary screw point and either the surface of the side piece on the wedges , or the surface of the wedges alone , the spherometer screw head was moved gradually downwards until when the pieces were made to slide over the surface plate under the screw point a slight mark on the surface resulted from the passage .
A series , of sets of readings were in the first place taken for con tact between the screw point and the surface of the side piece placed on the wedges , the thickness of the wedges being diminished between successive sets by an amount corresponding to five divisions on the graduated wedge .
The part of the series required is incorporated in the following table:\mdash ; PROFESSOR J. V. JONES ON THE DHiTERMINATION OF THE SPECIFIC WEDGES on Surface Plate and Side piece on Wedges .
The height of the screw point the surface plate corresponding to the reading of the spherometer scale is in each case equal to the sum of the thicknesses of the wedges and the side piece , which were separately determined in the measuring machine .
These thicknesses are recorded in the sixth and seventh columns in the above table , their sum , placed in the last column , gives in each case the height of the screw point above the surface plate .
A similar set of measurements was then made on the wedges alone , the side piece being removed .
The.results are given in the accompanying cable : WEDGES on Surface Plate .
The above tables are extracted from a more extended set of measurements .
They contain the measurements required in interpreting the readings of the spherometer contained in Tables I.-V .
The following tables were then constructed by simple interpolation from the above results , each spherometer reading having the corresponding height of the screw point above the surface plate attached to it : \mdash ; RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE . .
In the difference of level of the mercury surfaces from the readings given in Tables I.-V .
, it is only necessary to take the difference of the two corresponding heights in the spherometer calibration Table given above .
S 30 .
A record of the observations is given in Tables I.-V .
Each table contains the observations requisite for a complete determination which involves finding fonr equilibrium positions .
The upper part of each table is devoted to the observations giving the two equilibrium positions with the surface of the mercury in the trough at the lower the lower part to those giving the two equilibrium positions with the mercury surface at the higher le , and in the middle is placed the record of the spherometer readin , from which the difference of level may be calculated .
Each equilibrium position is obtained by simple interpolation from two values of ( vide S22 ) , and the positions , of the movable electrode corresponding to them .
The galvanometerxeadings , from which these two values of are calculated , together with other necessary data , are placed in each case above the line recording the equilibrium position deduced from them .
Above each set of galvanometer readings , the following corresponding observations are given : The reading for the movable electrode , ( ii .
) , the temperatures of the thermometers ( Plate 2 , fig. , taken before or after the galvanometer readings according as the set is marked or ( iii .
) , the temperature of the thermometer between the prongs of the tuning fork , taken before and after the galvanometer readings .
, the number of teeth in the row on the drum , Dr ( Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) , seen through the fork slit .
Each set is distinguished by a Roman numeral indicating the table to which it belongs , an Arabic numeral indicating the equilibrium position ( 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4 ) it helps to determine , and the letter or according as it is the first or second set belonging to that equilibrium position .
In any set of galvanometer readings , the observed readings are contained in the first four columns , the first two columns under the letter being the readings for an oscillation when the commutator is in the position , and the third and fourth columns , under the letter , being the readings for an oscillation when the commutator is in the position W. For instance , in the set in Table I ( I la ) the readings called out by the observer at the galvanometer followed one another , thus : , Reversal ; , Reversal ; , Reversal ; , Reversal ; Reversal ; , Reversal , \amp ; c. The fifth column under contains t , he positions of rest of the galvanometer needle , calculated from the readings on the same line in the first two columns , and the coefficient of damping .
The numbers in the sixth column under are similarly calculated from those in the third and fourth columns .
The value of the coefficient of )mping was 0.6757 .
RESISTANCE OF ]RCURY IN ABSOLUTE .
33 TABLE I.\mdash ; Set No. 1 .
( 3rd April , 1890 .
) expe.entNumber o Calculated reading for equilibrium position 4 PROFESSOR J. V. JONES ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE PECIBIC TABLE I.\mdash ; Set No. 1 .
( 3rd April , 1,890)\mdash ; continued .
Caloulated reading for equilibrium position RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN .
MEASURE .
35 TABLE L\mdash ; Set No. 1 .
( 3rd April , 1890)\mdash ; continued .
Calculaled reading for equilibrium position 36 PROFESSOR J. V. JONES ON THE DETERMINATION OF THffl SPECIFIC TABLE I.\mdash ; Set No. 1 .
( 3rd April , 1890)\mdash ; continued .
Calculated reading for equilibrium position RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
87 Reduction of the S31 .
Leb distance between the electrodes in any equilibrium position .
corresponding rate of rotation ( number of revolutions per second ) of the disc .
temperature of the mercury in the trough .
temperature of the tuning-fork .
vibration frequency of the fork at C. vibration frequency of the fork at temperature specific resistance of mercury at C. specific resistance of mercury at temperature sectional area of the mercury column at C. sectional area of the mercury column at rature t temperature coefficient of the tuning-fork vibration frequency temperature coefficient of the specific resistance .
cubical coefficient of expansion of mercury .
number of teeth in the row on the cylindrical drum viewed through the fork slit .
[ The difficulty of introducing a correction for the changes in the trough consequent on the small variations of temperature during the observations has been explained in S15 .
In all that follows the dimensions of the trough are assumed to be constant .
] We have Mn . .
or where Let be the values of for two equilibrium positions of the movable electrode separated from one another by a distance , the quantity of mercury in the trough being the same for both positions .
Then or , where or , where In each complete set of observations four equilibrium positions are taken , two with the mercury in the trough at one level , two at another .
Let be the values of and A with the mercury at the first level , and their values when new mercury has been added .
Then But , where mean breadth of the trough over the length used , and change of level of the mercury surface , assuming that before and afterJhe addition of fresh mercury the temperature is C. ; therefore we have finally The results of calculation are given in Table VI .
( p. 40 ) .
In the column marked the actual readings on the long screw and wheel ( Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) are recorded .
The first of the two columns marked contains the distances passed over by the movable electrode , reckoned by taking the differences of these readings .
The second of the columns marked contains these differences corrected by reference to the standard bars S 11 ) .
In the column marked are placed the actual differences of height of the two mercury surfaces obtained by simple } ) olation from the herometer calibration table in S29 ; in the column next to it , these differences corrected for sp temperature as follows:\mdash ; RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE .
39 Let height of the mercury surface above the base of the trough , when the first spherometer reading is taken at temperature and height of the mercury surface above the base of trough , when the second spherometer reading is taken at tetnperature Then actual difference of height recorded in the column marked and Approximately in .
in .
and these approximate values may be used in calculating the correcting telm .
It will be obserwed that the greatest value of the correction is about 4 in 50,000 .
In making the temperature corrections , the values of the temperature coefficients have been aken : ( vide infra ) .
Let resistance of a column of mercury in a glass tube at resistance of the same at Then taking the formula . . . . .
we have Let be the length of the glass tube at , and be the sectional area of the internal channel at the same temperature .
Then , being the temperature coefficient of the specific resistance , and the linear coefficient of expansion of the glass .
Hence and , taking We have then The factor was used in calculating the specific resistance at C. from that at C. The value of above given is obtained from , correction being similarly made for the fact that the formula applies to mercury in a glass tube .
MACLEOD and ABKE , ' Phil. Trans 1880 .
MASCABT , NEIRVILLE and BENOIT , ' Journal de Physique , ' 1884 , p. 230 .
5 co cu u o . .
RESISTANCE OF MERCURY IN ABSOLUTE S32 .
The final result arrived at is that the specific resistance of mercury at is equal to and hence that the specific resistance of mercury at C. is equal to The probable error calculated from the five values given by the individual sets of observations is It follows that an ohm is equal to the esistance of a column of mercury of 1 square mm. sectional area , and centimetres long .
S33 .
In conclusion it may be useful to consider the improvements that might be introduced in designing new apparatus for a further and more accurate of the specific resistance of mercury by this method .
Attention may , in the first place , be directed to the brushes in order to obtain steadiness of the galvanometer needle when the galvanometer circuit is complete , the battery circuit broken , and the disc in rotation .
The perforated brush fed by a constant stream of mercury from a cistern of adjustable height goes far to secure when the disc has been carefully ground true in place ; and if , instead of one such brush , three or four were placed at different points of the circumference of the disc , as suggested by ROWLAND , the result would probably be sufficiently good .
In determining the equilibrium positions the variation in W\mdash ; E ( vide S22 ) corresponding to a given displacement of the movable electrode is proportional to the ourrent through the standard coil and the mercury trough ; and the accuracy with which the equilibrium position can be determined may therefore be increased by increasing the current used .
But there are two considerations which limit the magnitude of the current , viz. , first and mainly , the unsteadiness of the galvanometer needle due to small variations in the rate of rotation of the disc , an unsteadiness which increases proportionately when the current is increased ; and secondly , the heating of the wire of the standard coil .
The heating of the wire of the coil may be diminished by increasing its sectional area ; and there is this provided the coil large enough to allow a sufficient number of turns in a single layer to produce an induction coefficient of sufficient magnitude .
The main point needing attention , if a large current is to be advantageously used , is the rate of rotation of the disc .
The more can be made , the greater will be the current that can be employed , and therefore the more accurate will be the determination of the equilibrium position .
In designing new apparatus no effort should be spared to compass mity in this respect .
The variations in speed depend on variations in the lubrication ] of the bearings , and in the friction between the brusbes of the electromotor and the commutator , and in less degree perhaps in the fnction between the brush or brushes at the disc and the disc circumference .
A forced system of lubrication at all would probably effect a great improvement ; the brushes should press as lightly as possible on the commutator of the electromotor , which ought to be newly and very carefully turned ; and a heavy fly-wheel should also be used .
In regard to the standard coil , the silk covering of wire introduces difficulty into the measurement of the mean radius , owing to the compressibility of the covering and its varying thickness .
It would be preferable to have a coil of naked wire wound in a screw thread cut on a coil cylinder made of insulating material .
But it does not seem easy to find an insulating material that will retain its shape when ma.de into a cylinder of such large dimensions .
Wood naturally suggests itself , but it would be difficult to prevent it from altering from time to time with varying atmospheric conditions .
Possibly a coil cylinder of wood , built up of a great many pieces , and supported on both sides by heavy phosphor bronze plates , might give satisfactory results .
If marble , after a prolonged immersion in molten pa raffin wax , is a sufficiently good insulator , it might be tried .
There is , however , always the alternative of using covered wlre on a metal cylinder of such dimensions as to make the errors of measurement due to the eilk covering of the wire insignificant to the degree of approximation requlred .
The trough , as has been already indicated ( S may probably be more successfully made of plate glass or marble .
There .
seems no reason why its dimensions should not be much more considerable than those of the trough used in the experiments described , in which ca.se their accurate nent would be facilitated .
The sectional area of the mercury column may be as great as seems good , provided the length of .
the trough is sufficient to make the equipotential surfaces plane in the part of the trough which the movable electrode traverses .
Further , this part of the trough , is the only part that need be prepared with the utmost accuracy .
It might , therefore , be well to make the trough in three parts , the middle portion being prepared with its base and sides carefully made plane , while the end portions need not receive the same attentive workmanship .
With a large trough three or fuur feet might be traversed by the movable electrode , lnstead of some ten in ches as in the present experiments .
In any final determination of the specific resistance to one part in ten thousand , an endeavour will doubtless be made to estimate it still more closely , and to obtain a decimal place further as a mean of a number of determinations .
In an such attem great care will have to be taken to maintain all parts of the apparatus ( except the ysuc aemp motor , fly-wheel , and connecting shafting ) at definite and ascertainable tem eratures pe a room specially designed for that purpose .
, The author desires to acknowledge the great he has received at all sta es of these experlments from his assistant , Mr. S. T. HARRISON ; and to tbank Mr. J. GAV ges of the South Wales Postal Telegraphic Department , for kindly placing at his disposal . .
AVEY , the telegraphic apparatus required . .
Plaw 3 .
AI

