II .
" A Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field .
" By ProfessorJ .
CLERK MAXWELL , F.R.S. Received October 27 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The proposed Theory seeks for the origin of electromagnetic effects in the medium surrounding the electric or magnetic bodies , and assumes that they act on each other not immediately at a distance , but through the intervention of this mediumn .
The existence of the medium is assumed as probable , since the investigations of Optics have led philosophers to believe that in such a medium .
the propagation of light takes place .
The properties attributed to the medium in order to explain the propagation of light are 1st .
That the motion of one part communiicates motion to the parts in its neighbourhood .
2nd .
That this communication is not instantaneous but progressive , and depends on the elasticity of the medium as compared with its density .
The kind of motion attributed to the medium when transmitting light is that called transverse vibration .
An elastic medium capable of such motions must be also capable of a vast variety of other motions , and its elasticity may be called inito play in other ways , some of which may be discoverable by their effects .
One phenomenon which seems to indicate the existence of other motions than those of light in the medium , is that discovered by Faraday , in which the plane of polarizationi of a ray of light is caused to rotate by the action of magnetic force .
Professor W. Thomson* has shown that this phenomenon cannot be explained without admitting that there is motion of the luminiferous medium in the neighbourhood of magnets and currenlts .
The phenomena of electromotive force seem also to indicate the elasticity or tenacity of the medium .
When the state of the field is being altered by the introduction or motion of currents or magniets , every part of the field experiences a force , which , if the medium in that part of the field is a conductor , produces a current .
If the medium is an electrolyte , and the electromotive force is strong enough , the components of the electrolyte are separated in spite of their chemical affinity , and carried in opposite -directions .
If the medium is a dielectric , all its parts are put into a state of electric polarization , a state in which the opposite sides of every such part are oppositely electrified , and this to an extent proportioned to the intensity of the electromotive force which causes the polarization .
If the intensity of this polarization is increased beyondl a certain limit , the electric tenacity of the medium gives way , and there is a spark or " I disruptive discharge .
" Thus the action of electromotive force on a dielectric produces an electric displacement within it , and in this way stores up energy which will reappear when the dielectric is relieved from this state of constraint .
A dynamical theory of the Electromagnetic Field must therefore assume that , wherever magnetic effects occur , there is matter in motion , and that , wherever electromotive force is exerted , there is a medium in a state of constraint ; so that the medium must be regarded as the recipient of two kinds of energy the actual energy of the magnetic motion , and the potential energy of the electric displacement .
According to this theory we look for the explanation of electric and magnetic phenomena to the mutual actions between the medium and the electrifed or magnetic bodies , and not to any direct action between those bodies themselves .
In the case of an electric current flowing in a circuit A , we know that the magnetic action at every point of the field depends on its position relative to A , and is proportional to the strengtll of the current .
If there is another circuit B in the field , the magnetic effects due to B are simply added to those due to A , according to the well-knowwn law of compositioni of forces , velocities , &amp;c. According to our theory , the motion of every part of the medium depenids partly on the strength of the current in A , and partly on that in B , and when these are giveu the whole is determined .
The mechanical conditions therefore are those of a system of bodies connected with two driving-points A aid B , in which we may determine the relation between the motions of A and B , and the forces acting on them , by purely dynamical principles .
It is shown that in this case we may find two quantities , namely , the " reduced mnomertulm " of the system referred to A and to B , each of which is a linlear function of the velocities of A and B. The effect of the force on A is to increase the inomentuim of the system referred to A , and the effect of the force on B is to increase the momentum referred to B. The simplest mechanical example is that of a rod acted on by two forces perpendicular to its direction at A and at B. Then any change of velocity of A will produce a force at B , unless A and B are mutually centres of suspension and oscillation .
Assuming that the motion of every part of the electromagnetic field is determined by the values of the currents in A and B , it is shown1st .
That any variation in the strength of A will produce an electromotive force in H. 2nd .
That any alteration in the relative position of A and B will produce an electromotive force in B. 3rd .
That if currents are maintained in A and B , there will be a mechanical force tending to alter their position relative to each other .
4th .
That these electromotive and mechanical forces depend on the value of a single function M , which may be deduced from the form and relative position of A and B , and is of one dimension in space ; that is to say , it is a certain number of feet or metres .
The existenlce of electromotive forces between the circuits A and B was first deduced from the fact of electromagnetic attraction , by Professor Helmholtz* and Professor W. Thomsont , by the principle of the Conservation of Energy .
Here the electromagnetic attractions , as well as the forces of induction , are deduced from the fact that every current when established in a circuit has a certain persistency or momentum-that is , it requires the continued action of an unresisted electromotive force in order to alter its value , and that this " 6 momentum " depends , as in various mechanical problems , on the -value of other currents as well as itself .
This momentum is what Faraday has called the Electrotonic State of the circuit .
It may be shown from these resuilts , that at every point in the field there is a certain direction possessing the following properties A conductor moved in that direction experiences no electromotive force .
A conductor carrying a current experiences a force in a direction perpendicular to this line and to itself .
A circuit of small area carrying a current tends to place itself with its plane perpendicular to this direction .
A system of lines drawn so as everywhere to coincide with the direction having these properties is a system of lines of magnetic force ; and if the lines in any one part of their course are so distributed that the number of lines enclosed by any closed curve is proportional to the " electric momentum " of the field referred to that curve , then the electromagnetic phenomena may be thus stated : The electric momeentum of any closed curve whatever is measured by the number of lines of force which pass through it .
*t Conservation of Force .
Berlin , 1847 : translated iTTayrlor 's Scientific Memoirs , Feb. 1853 , p. 114 .
'f Reports of British Association , 1848 .
Phil. Mag. Dec , 1851 .
If this number is altered , either by motion of the curve , or motioni of the inducing current , or variation in its strerngth , an electromotive force acts round the curve and is measured by the decrease of the number of lines passing through it in unit of time .
If the curve itself carries a current , then mechanical forces act on it tending to increase the number of lines passing through it , and the work done by these forces is measured by the increase of the number of lines multiplied by the strength of the current .
A method is then given by which the coefficient of self-induction of any circuit can be determined by means of Wheatstone 's electric balance .
The next part of the paper is devoted to the mathematical expression of the electromagnetic quantities referred to each point in the field , and to the establishmenit of the general equations of the electromagnetic field , which express the relations among these quantities .
The quantities which enter into these equations are:-Electric currents by conduction , electric displacements , and Total Currents ; Magnetic forces , Electromotive forces , and Electromagnetic Momenta .
Each of these quantities being a directed quantity , has three components ; and besides these we have two others , the Free Electricity and the Electric Potential , making twenty quantities in all .
There are twenty equations between these quantities , lnamely Equations of Total Currents , of Magnetic Force , of Electric Currents , of Electromotive Force , of Electric Elasticity , and of Electric Resistance , making six sets of three equations , together with one equation of Free Electricity , and another of Electric Continuity .
These equations are founded on the facts of the induction of currents as investigated by Faraday , Felici , &amp;c. , on the action of currents on a magnet as discovered by Gersted , and on the polarization of dielectrics by electromotive force as discovered by Faraday and mathematically developed by Mossotti .
An expression is then found for the intrinsic energy of any part of the field , depending partly on its magnetic , and partly on its electric polarization .
From this the laws of the forces acting between magnetic poles and between electrified bodies are deduced , and it is shown that the state of constraint due to the polarization of the field issuch as to act on the bodies according to the well-known experimental laws .
It is also shown in a note that , if we look for the explanation of the force of gravitation in the actioni of a surrounding medium , the constitution of the medium must be such that , when far from the presence of gross matter , it has immense intrinisic energy , part of which is removed from it wherever we find the signs of gravitating force .
This result does not encourage us to look ill this direction for the explanationi of the force of gravity .
The relation which subsists between the electromagnetic and the electrostatic system of units is then investigated , and shown to depend upon what we have called the Electric Elasticity of the medium in which the experiments are made ( i. e. common air ) .
Other media , as glass , shellac , and sulphur have different powers as dielectrics ; and some of them exhibit the phenomena of electric absorption and residual discharge .
It is then shown how a compound condenser of different materials may be constructed which shall exhibit these pheniomena , and it is proved that the result will be the same though the different substances were so intimately intermingled that the want of uniformity could not be detected .
The gelneral equations are then applied to the foundation of the Electromagnetic Theory of Light .
Faraday , in his " Thoughts on Ray Vibrations ' ' , has described the effect of the sudden movement of a magnetic or electric body , and the propagation of the disturbance through the field , and has stated his opinion that such a disturbalnce must be entirely transverse to the direction of propagation .
In 1846 there were no data to calculate the mathematical laws of such propagation , or to determine the velocity .
The equations of this paper , however , show that transverse disturbances , and transverse disturbances only , will be propagated through the field , and that the number which expresses the velocity of propagation must be the same as that which expresses the number of electrostatic units of electricity in one electromagnetic unit , the standards of space and time being the same .
The first of these results agrees , as is well known , with the undulatory theory of light as deduced from optical experiments .
The second may be judged of by a comparison of the electromagnetical experiments of Weber and Kohlrausch with the velocity of light as determined by astronomers in the heavenly spaces , and by M. Foucault in the air of his laboratory .
Electrostatic units in an electromag310,740,000 metres per second .
netic unit..3..1 .
0,740 , * 000 metrespersecond Velocity of light as found by M. Fizeau 314,858,000 .
Velocity of light by M. Foucault ... ... 298,000,000 .
Velocity of light deduced from aberraI tion .
308,000,000 .
At the ouitset of the paper , the dynamical theory of the electromagnetic field borrowed from the undulatory theory of light the use of its luminiferous medium .
It now restores the medium , after having tested its powers of transmitting un-idulations , and the character of those undulations , and certifies that the vibrations are transverse , and that the velocity is that of light .
With regard to normal vibrationis , the electromagnetic theory does not allow of their transmission .
What , them , is light according to the electromagnetic theory ?
It consists of alternate and opposite rapidly recurring transverse mag , netic disturbances , accompanied with electric displacements , the direction of the electric displacement being at right angles to the magnetic disturbance , and both at right angles to the direction of the ray .
The theory does not attempt to give a mechanical explanation of the nature of magnetic disturbance or of electric displacement , it only asserts the identity of these phenomena , as observed at our leisuire in magnetic and electric experiments , with what occurs in the rapid vibrations of light , in a portion of time inconceivably minute .
This paper is already too long to follow out the application of the electromagnetic theory to the different phenomena already explained by the undulatory , theory .
It discloses a relation between the inductive capacity of a dielectric and its index of refraction .
The theory of double refraction in crystals is expressed very simply in terms of the electromagnetic theory .
The non-existence of normal vibrations and the ordinary refraction of rays polarized in a principal plane are shown to be capable of explanation ; but the verification of the theory is difficult at present , for wanit of accurate data concerning the dielectric capacity of crystals in different directions .
The propagation of vibrationis in a conducting medium is then considered , and it is shown that the light is absorbed at a rate depending on the conducting-power of the medium .
This result is so far confirmed by the opacity of all good coinductors , but the transparency of electrolytes shows that in certain cases vibrations of short period and amplitude are not absorbed as those of long period would be .
The transparency of thiln leaves of gold , silver , and platinum cannot be explained without some such hypothesis .
The actual value of the maximum electromotive force which is called into play during the vibrations of strolng sunlight is calculated from Pouillet 's data , and found to be about 60,000,000 , or about 600 Daniell 's cells per metre .
The maximum magnietic force during such vibrations is -193 , or about -AL of the horizontal magnetic force at London .
Methods are then given for applying the general equations to the calculation of the coefficient of mutual inductioni of two circuits , and in particular of two circles the distance of whose circumferences is small compared with the radius of either .
The coefficient of self-reduction of a coil of rectangular section is found and applied to the case of the coil used by the Committee of the British Association on Electrical Standards .
The results of calculation are compared with the value deduced from a comparisoni of experiments in which this coefficient enters as a correction , and also with the results of direct experiments with the electric balance .

