]\gt ; The Retation between the Refractivity and Density of Dioxide .
By P. PHILLIPS , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1919 .
) A number of different experimenters have determined the relation between the refractivity and density of various gases , and , with a fair agreement , they have come to the conclusion that the L. Lorenz and H. A. Lorentz formula constant ) is true within the limits of their experimental errors .
At small densities this formula will , of course , reduce to either of the other two well-known relations , that of Drude constant ) , or the empirical relation of Gladstone and Dale constant ) .
At greatel densities the Lorenz and Lorentz formula is distinctly more accurate than the others , Drude 's formula diyerging the mosG rapidly .
This well brought out in an experiment by .
Occhialini , published in 'Il Nuovo Cimento , ' AUgust , 1914 .
Even the Lorenz and Lorentz formula is not accurately true , however , when applied to the large of density from a gas to a liquid .
For example , for the green mercury line for water , while its value is for water vapour , a difference of per cent. It is thus evident that the densities used in the experiments with gases have not been great enough to exhibit the variations of the Lorenz and Lorentz constant .
By experimenting with a gas just above its critical temperature large continuous changes of density may be produced and for this reason this experiment was carried out with carbon dioxide at a temperature of C. Nearer to the critical temperature than this dioxide is so sensitive to the smallest change in temperature or pressure that it was found too difficult to work with .
Continuous changes of density from downwards quite readily obtained , and by means of a Fabry and Perot etalon the continuous change in refractivity was observed .
General Arrangement of The optical arrangement whereby the refractivity was measured is shown diagrammatically in vertical section in .
The light from a mercury lamp , Dr. P. Phillips .
Relation between the , was focussed by means of a condenser , , on to the wide slit , , of a collimator .
After passing through the collimator it traversed a small Fabry and Perot 6talon , , was refracted the prism , , and then received by the telescope , T. FIG. 1 .
The etalon produced the usual circular stems of bands for the various wave-lengths existing in the light from the mercury lamp , but the slit , , was adjusted so as to cut off all but a narrow horizontal strip across the centre of the systems .
The prism , , refracted the different wave-lengths by different amounts and so separated the strips of bands from one another in telescope .
The Fabry and Perot e'talon was placed inside a strong gunmetal chamber which is shown in section in fig. 2 .
The two plates of the etalon are shown FIG. 2 .
Refractivity Density of Dioxide .
at , and two thick glass windows at , W. At , is shown the stem of a pin valve which served to close the vessel or to allow it to communicate with the remainder of the apparatus through a tube which is indicated by the small dotted circle .
rest of the construction is perhaps made sufficiently clear by the figure .
The internal capacity of the vessel when the etalon was in position was about 9 .
The methods by which this was measured are indicated later .
The gunmetal chamber will be referred to as " " the vessel\ldquo ; throughout this paper .
The vessel was immersed in stirred water contained in a copper tank which was provided with plate glass windows front and back .
Considerable difficulty was experienced at first in maintaining the temperature of water sufficiently constant and a number of forms of thermostat were tried .
Ultimately a fine adjustment pin valve attached to a gas jet and operated by hand was found to be most satisfactory , and after a little practice one could keep the temperature constant to C. for the whole of the day .
After the vessel had been filled with the carbon dioxide it was placed into communication with a graduated glass cylinder of 250 .
capacity as indicated in fig. 3 .
This cylinder was placed in a water jacket and could communicate with the air through a tap , , as well as with the vessel , The genel'al construction is 1nade clear by the FIO .
3 .
Dr. P. Philhps .
The Relation between the Method of The vessel was first evacuated and then connected with a cylinder of liquid carbon dioxide through a steel drying tube containing .
It was then surrounded by lnelting ice placed in the copper tank .
This caused the carbon dioxide to distil over into the vessel and completely fill it .
The pin valve in the .
vessel was then closed , and the carbon dioxide cylinder shut off and ected .
A little of the carbon dioxide was then allowed to escape from the vessel until the latter was about full .
The vessel was then connected to the measuring cylinder as shown in fig. 3 .
The ice was then removed from the tank and replaced by water which was ted to C. and kept at that temperature for at least a quarter of an hour before any readings werc1 taken .
During this time the mercury lamp was started , the collimator and telescope were adjusted and the cross wire was placed on a particular green band cm The position of the cross wir1 on the other systcms of bands was also estimated to one-tenth of a band .
The mercnry in the measuring cylinder was then raised to by raising the reservoir and the tap , , fig. 3 .
This tap was then closed and the reservoir was lowered .
The pin valve in the vessel then opened very slightly , thus allowing the carbon dioxide to escape very slowly into the cylinder .
While this was the bands slowly passing the cross wire and the number thus passing was count ' each of the systems of bands .
Unless the escape was very slow the bands became indistinct and sometimes disappeared .
This was obviously due to the carbon dioxide becoming heterogeneous when ansion ; too sudden .
) about 25 green bands had passed the cross wire the pin valve was closed , thus stopping the escape of the carbon dioxide , and after the bands had become quite stationary the number which had passed the wire on each system of hands was estimated to one-tenth of a band .
The volume of the carbon dioxide in the measuring cylinder was measured at atmospheric pressure and at the temperature of the water jacket .
The tap , , was opened , the reservoir of mercury again raised until the mercury in the cylinder stood at the zero mark and the tap , , again closed .
The process of allowing the carbon dioxide to escape into the measuring cylinder , counting bands and measuring the escaped carbon dioxide was repeated until the gas in the vessel was reduced to atmospheric pressure .
The vessel was then evacuated to about 1 mm. pressure and the number of bands counted during the evacuation .
ctivity and Density of Carbon Dioxide .
Calculation of Resutts .
( a ) Density.\mdash ; The density at any particular reading of the bands was found by adding all the volumes reduced to N.T.P. escaping into the measuring cylinder subsequent to the adding to this the volume of the vessel reduced to N.T.P. from the atmospheric pressure and C. Calling this total volume , the of the vessel , and the density of carbon dioxide at N.T.P. , the density of the carbon dioxide in the vessel was ( b ) Refractive Index.\mdash ; Calling the distance veen the Fabry and Perot plates and the wave-length of the light used , the number of wave-lengths path difference at the centre of the system of bands is If when the vessel is evacuated the cross wire is bands from the centre , the path difference at the cross wire is ling the total number of bands which pass the cross wire after the particular reading until the vessel is evacuated , the refractive index is .
The calculation of the results requires the tance between the Fabry and Perot plates and the volume of the vessel .
The distance between the plates was obtained by measuring the brass spacing ring etween them with a Browne and Sharpe screw gauge .
This distance corrected to C. was found to be cm .
The nnmber of wave-lengths path difference to the centre of the band sysLem for the green mercury line is , therefore , The measurement of the volume of the vessel was carried out in two ways .
( a ) The vessel was completely filled with carbon dioxide at C. and at the saturation pressure of the carbon dioxide in the cylinder .
This was carried out as described in the method of experiment .
The vessel was then connected to the measuring cylinder and the carbon dioxide in it was allowed to escape into the measuring cylinder in doses of about 200 to 250 , the volume , temperature and pressure of each dose being measured just as is described in the method of experiment .
This was continued until the pressure in the vessel was reduced to atmospheric and then the volumes , to N.T.P. , were all added ether .
Calling this total volume , the density of carbon dioxide at , and at the saturation pressure of the liquid carbon dioxide in the cylinder , and the density of carbon dioxide at N.T.P. , then the of density in the vessel is and the volume of the vessel is .
Dr. P. Phillips .
The between the The following results were obtained on February 15 , 1915:\mdash ; Total volume reduced to N.T.P. Temperature of carbon dioxide cylinder C. Saturation pressure ( Anagat ) .
atmos .
Density of carbon dioxide at C. and at atmos .
( Amagat ) ensity of carbon dioxide at C. and at 76 cm .
when at University College , London , where The volume of the vessel is therefore The mean of four determinations was ( b ) The second method of measuring the volume of the vessel was by carrying out the experiment as describe in the method of experiment , but instead of filling the vessel with carbon dioxide it was filled with air at about 110 atmos .
The air was deprived of moisture but not of carbon dioxide , and the value of the refractive index given by under the same conditions was assumed .
For the comparatively small changes of density which occur when using air it was found that the number of bands passing the cross wire was exactly proportional to the volume at N.T.P. of the air escaping into the measuring linder , and therefore within this range of density is constant .
Using the same nomenclature as in the calculation of the refractive index of the carbon dioxide ' refractive index of the air , number of bands passing the cross wire , distance between the plates of the e'talon , -length of light used , number of bands from the cross wire to the centre of the band system when the air was all pumped out , density of the air , density of the air at and 76 cm .
total volume of air at N.T.P. which escapes into the measuring cylinder , volume of the vessel .
'Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 83 ( 1909 ) .
Refractivity and Density of Carbon Dioxide .
For the green mercury line for air at N.T.P. , and therefore We , therefore , have ' and .
The following results were obtained on January 4 , 1915:\mdash ; Total volume of air , reduced to N.T.P. , escapin into measuring cylinder .
Total number of green bands passing the cross wire Number of bands from cross wire to centre of band system at the close of the experiment 10 Temperature of vessel C. Substituting these numbers in the equation we have The mean of four determinations is .
The other method , therefore the mean of both methods is , and that is the value used throughout the experiment .
A third method of measuring the volume was carried out .
This by filling the vessel with water and hing it .
The results were not vely consistent with one another , however , probably owing to the difficulty in completely filling and completely drying out the vessel .
The mean result agreed quite closely with that given by the other two methods , but it was not used because it was obviously less reliable .
The two thermometers used were checked by comparing them with two lnercury in Jena glass thermometers kindly lent by Mr. Eumorfopoulos , who had carefully calibrated them previously .
The measuring cylinder was calibrabd by filling with mercury , running out the mercury to various divisions and weighing the mercury run out .
The barometer was 2 metres below the level of the apparatus , and therefore cm .
was subtracted from the corrected barometer reading .
Test for Expansion of the Vessd due to Internal Pressure .
It was suspected that this expansion of the vessel might be large to be appreciable and thus affect the calculation of the density .
Dr. P. Phillips .
The Relation between the To test this a capillary tube of cm .
internal diameter was fixed on to the tube leading from the vessel .
The latter was completely filled with water , so that the surface of the water was near the top of the capillary tube , and then the top of the capillary tube was connected to a compressor .
The depression of the surface of the water for a given increase of pressure was observed , first , when the valve in the vessel was open , and , second , when it was closed .
The difference gives the apparent contraction of the water in the vessel itself .
The results showed that the apparent contraction was the same as the contraction of the water itself , and therefore that the expansion of the vessel was inappreciable .
As a contraction of .
would be quite readily observed , and the volume of the vessel is over 9 , the possible error due to the expansion cannot be more than per cent. The following figures were obtained in the test : Therefore for the vessel alone we have : Pressure difference .
Depression in capillary tube .
atmos .
cm .
7.95 1 atmos .
produces cm .
depression .
Diameter of tube by mercury thread method cm .
apparent change iu volume for one atmosphere Volume of vessel Apparent compression per atmosphere fraetivity and Density of Carbon Dioxide .
As the compressibility of water at15o C. is there is no difference between this and the apparent compressibility within the limits of the experimental error .
Test of Purity of the Carbon Dioxide .
It was originally intended to prepare the carbon dioxide carefully , so as to ensure its purity , but it was found that the carbon dioxide from the commercial cylinders , when introduced into the vessel in the way described , left a smaller residue when absorbed by caustic potash than that prepared by the experimenter .
The carbon dioxide from the commercial cylinders was therefore used throughout the experiments .
In one test , 65 , which was allowed to escape from the vessel , was collected over mercury at atmospheric pressure cm and absorbed by 2 .
of strong KOH solution .
The residue was measured cm .
pressure , and was found to be .
The volume at cm .
would therefore be .
This is of the total volume .
This was the largest residue found , and therefore it is obable that not more than per cent. of air was present .
Results of of Refra The results obtained on February 3 , 1915 , are given as a sample , and after them are given the mean readings for six experiments carried out between January 20 and February 12 .
Readings of February 3 .
Dr. P. Phillips . ?
Relation between the After this , one of the windows in the vessel rracked , and a new window was ground in , thus altering the volume of the vessel slightly .
A further series of experiments was carried out in August and September , 1915 , and these agreed very closely with those given below .
The temperature of the vessel was maintained at C. throughout this and all the other experiments .
At the close of the experiment the cross wire was green bands , yellow bands , and violet bands from the centre of the band system .
From these results we get:\mdash ; Path difference at zero density at the cross wire\mdash ; green wave-lengths , yellow wave-lengths , violet wave-lengths .
Also we These results are plotted on Graph No. 1 , which shows that increases with , but is not a linear function .
The inverse of the Lorenz and Lorentz quantity is plotted for reasons which will appear in the discussion of the results .
The mean results for six experiments are given below .
In taking the mean , the densities which are most nearly equal in the six experiments are taken together and their mean taken .
The mean of the refractivities corresponding to these densities is also taken .
Refractivity and Densit .
of Carbon Dioxide .
I 2 6 7 Dr. P. Phillips .
The Relation between the GRAPH 2 .
of the Results .
The total number of green bands counted was about 650 for the greatest densities recorded , and about 100 for the smallest densities .
As the bands can be estimated fairly reliably to one-tenth of a band the robable error in this part of the measurement is about per cent. for the greatest densities and per cent. for the smallest densities .
The volumes can be estimated to one-tenth of a cubic centimetre , and , therefore , since they are measured in doses of a little more than 200 , the probable error in this measurement is per cent. The error in the measurement of the volume of the vessel and of the distance between the plates is probably about per cent. The last two errors only affect the absolute values since they remain constant throughout .
Discussion of It is evident from Graph No. 2 that the inverse of the Lorenz and Lorentz constant is a linear function of .
For the wave-length 5461 the relation between the refractive index and the density is ctivity and Density of Dioxide .
Let us now consider the meaning of the term involving Lorentz and Lorenz , in arriving at their constant , considered the effect produced on an electron of given free frequency by the alternating field in the light and by the field due to the polarisation of the surrounding molecules .
The latter field was calculated by assuming the electron to be at the centre of a spherical cavity , the polarisation on the walls of which produced the field at the centre .
This field , due to the polarisation , was calculated to be , where is the electric polarisation .
Lorenz and Lorentz have suggested that the field may not be exactly , but may be , where is a small constant .
This would lead to being a linear function of , which is not the case .
Natanson states that will depend upon the density of the medium .
If we assume it to be directly proportional to the density , an equation is derived which is of the form obtained above from the experiment .
The following calculation shows these results:\mdash ; Let mass of the electron of a certain type , restoring force per unit displacement , displacement , free frequency constant period , period , number of electrons of this type per cubic centimetre , charge on one electron , electric polarisation For the free vibrabion we have and With an external field and a field equal to , due to the polarisation of the medium , we have Put Then or .
Now Dr. P. Phillips .
The Relation between the Put Putting being the density , If were a constant , as suggested by H. A. Lorentz , then would be a linear function of the density , whereas if , as gested by Natanson , it is a function the density , we may assume it to be directly proportional to the density , and so make a linear function of the square of the density .
Comparing the last equation with the one derived from the experiment , we have for the wave-length 5461 in carbon dioxide This gives and the field at any point due to the polarisation .
For wave-length and for Comparison with previous Results .
It will be seen from Graph No. 2 that the values of , when the density is , i.e. , the density at C. and at 76 cm .
, are as follows:\mdash ; This gives a dispersive power between and of Refractivity and Density of Dioxide .
These values for are plotted on Graph No. 3 , together with the values for different wave-lengths given by Mascart , Perreau , Ketteler , Gruschke , Koch , Stuckert , Rentschler , and J. T. Howell .
GRAPH 3 At density the following values of are obtained from Graph No. 2 , and the values of are calculated from them : The dispersive power between and is found from these numbers to be , which is the same as that at the lower density within the limits of the error of the experiment .
Mr. J. H. Hyde .
the Viscosities and In conclusion , I wish to thank Dr. A. W. Porter , of University College , London , for his kindly interest and helpful suggestions throughout the experiment .
I also wish to acknowledge that some of the expense of the experi .
meant was met by a Government grant .
As is stated above , this experiment was completed in 1915 .
A sojourn in the army has , however , prevented its earlier preparation for publication .
On the Viscosities Compressibilities of Liquids at High Pressures .
By J. H. HYDE , A.M.Inst .
C.E. , A.M.I.Mech .
E. Communicated by Dr. J. E. Petavel , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received December 19 , 1919 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory The research here described was mdertaken for the Committee on Lubricants and Lubrication of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research , for the purpose of the analysis of the results of a previous investigation into the efficiency of power transmission through a worm gear when different kinds of oil , animal , vegetable , and mineral , were used as the lubricant .
Since pressures of the order of 5 tons per square inch between the lubricated surfaces of worm gears are not uncommon , a knowledge of the rates of variation of the viscosities of the oils up to these pressures was essential , and as this information was not obtainable , the experiments necessary for the determinations were put in hand at the request of the Committee .
On looking into the question of suitable experimental methods , a direct measure of the changes of viscosity of the oils under pressure did not seem promising , and , therefore , the work was divided into two stages .
In the first place , experiments were undertaken in which the values of the kinematical viscosity was determined , and after this investigation was completed , apparatus was devised for the study of the changes of density with pressure .
The possibility of the existence of a considerable variation in the values of the viscosities between the ordinary pressures at which they are usually obtained in visGometels and pressures of the order of 5 tons per square inch appeared to be probable from the results obtained by Prof. O. Faust at Gottingen in 1914 the cases of ethyl-ether , ethyl alcohol , and carbon bisulphide .

