375 A New Malaria Parasite of Man .
By J. W. W. Stephens , M.D. , Sir Alfred Jones Professor of Tropical Medicine , University of Liverpool .
( Communicated by Sir R. Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 19 , \#151 ; Read February 19 , 1914 .
) [ Plates 14-16 .
] In the autumn of 1913 Major Kenrick , I.M.S. , kindly sent me , from Pachmari , Central Provinces , India , a blood slide from a native child , containing numerous malaria parasites .
On examining these , which I at first took to be malignant tertian parasites , the suspicion arose in my mind that there was something peculiar about their appearance .
I happened just previously to have been studying a blood slide from Rhodesia , containing very numerous malignant tertian parasites .
The peculiarity of the Indian parasite , as far as I could at first define it , was that it was an irregular parasite as compared with the regular , almost monotonous , contour of the " rings " of the malignant tertian parasite ( falciparum ) .
I proceeded then to study the Indian parasite more carefully ; and , after- daily observations for many weeks of it , and of control malignant tertian parasites from various sources , I came definitely to the conclusion that it was unlike any malignant tertian parasite that I had ever seen or that I could find figured in the text-books or journals .
I also considered carefully the possibility of its being the simple tertian parasite , but to this point I shall return later .
During this study , in order to fix my impressions , I drew 150 consecutive parasites from the Indian slide and the Rhodesian slide respectively , as the former appeared in the field of view of an ocular so restricted by placing a diaphragm in it that only half a dozen red cells were visible in the field at a time , thus effectively preventing any .
selection on my part .
I reproduce as pen-and-ink drawings 35 of each series taken at random , as they show very well in a general way the different aspect of the two parasites .
For the same purpose I also drew a number of young simple tertian parasites .
I now proceed to define as far as possible in detail the peculiarities of this parasite .
1 .
It is extremely amoeboid ( judging from the stained specimens ) .
Thin processes often extend across the cell or occur as long tails to more or less ring-shaped bodies .
These processes may be several in number , and may 376 Prof. J. W. W. Stephens .
give the parasite most peculiar fantastic shapes like that of an irregular web or mesh .
2 .
The cytoplasm is always scanty , i.c. the individual amoeboid processes are delicate or thin , and the parasite has but little bulk , or density .
While forms resembling " rings " do occur , yet , owing to the abundance of all kinds of irregular forms , it is certainly difficult to find quite typical " signet " rings .
Laterally applied parasites ( accoUof French authors ) also occur , but in them the chromatin is not dot-like , as it usually is in the malignant tertian , but practically always rod-like .
3 .
The nuclear chromatin is out of proportion to the volume of the parasite .
It takes the form of bars or rods , strands , curves , forks , patches , etc. ; the occurrence of the chromatin in a dot , as in the " ring " forms of other species , is rare .
In the weh-like protoplasmic processes mentioned above there may be seen several chromatin strands , and not uncommonly one observes a minute dot of chromatin some way from the parasite , or between two portions of the parasite , though the protoplasmic process connecting it with the main mass or masses is so thin as to be invisible .
The chromatin masses are frequently angular , the angles jutting into the points at which an amoeboid process is given off .
Abundance of , and marked irregularity in distribution of , the chromatin masses are characteristic of this parasite .
I reproduce in a coloured plate the peculiar forms of this parasite , as it is very difficult , if not impossible , to describe them in words .
I next consider in what respects this parasite in my opinion differs from the hitherto described parasites of malaria .
Malignant Tertian Parasite.\#151 ; It differs from this ( 1 ) In its amoeboid activity .
In the case of the malignant tertian parasite a certain amount of amoeboid activity is observable , giving rise to " star-fish " shapes , and to somewhat irregular or even bacillary forms ; but the activity is not comparable with tha^j of this parasite , which has for this -reason a most strange and .
peculiar appearance .
The picture produced by the splash of a drop of ink on paper may suggest some of the forms seen .
( 2 ) Iu the abundance and irregularity of nuclear matter .
This , as the coloured plate shows , is very different from what one finds in the malignant tertian parasite , where the term " signet rings " well expresses the general morphology .
The quotidian parasite , if such exists , differs so slightly morphologically from the malignant tertian parasite that the differences just pointed out between this Indian parasite and the malignant tertian apply equally to it .
Simple Tertian Parasite.\#151 ; It differs from this in the following respects : jddv ) o WJGMOI'TIVM IKjUNO I'\lt ; UUlHr , ^HOT # McrmAVM luth tttthyf i)/ tittttpoutsti/ fci J * * .
\lt ; ?
t * % V V i K v\gt ; r # ?
f* hf 'l# ]oa fioyr Stephens .
hoy .
Soc Proc. B , vol , S7 , PU .
1 \gt ; / 6 'w - i Plasmodium , terva-e .
VMffCMUM \amp ; wN\amp ; uwnm i.okujm waii lonton x , \amp ; ?\lt ; %\gt ; .
( apP ' ' ' Stephens .
Boy .
Soc. Proc. B. vol37Pi , ( Plasmodium X 2300 .
( approx. ) A New Malaria Parasite of Man .
( 1 ) Its bulk is much less , i.e. it is a smaller parasite .
( 2 ) The amoeboid processes are far more delicate .
( 3 ) The chromatin shows a relative abundance , an irregularity and a peculiarity of arrangement ( e.g. strands , rods and bars ) not seen in the simple tertian parasite .
( 4 ) Typical rings are absent or exceedingly rare .
I am not sure whether this parasite enlarges the cell , as , although in some cases I found infected cells larger than non-infected ones in their vicinity , in other cases the reverse held good .
I am uncertain also whether it is pigmented or not .
I have found no parasites in which I could certainly detect pigment ; but , on the other hand , I found three pigmented leucocytes in the film , which leucocytes may be associated with this parasite or may result from an associated infection .
Finally , I am in doubt as to whether it produces any change in the red cell such as Schiifl'ner 's dots .
During the course of my examination of this film I must have observed many thousand parasites , but among these I encountered only one infected cell which was clearly enlarged and which showed Schiiffner 's dots .
The bulk of this parasite was much greater than that of any other I had seen , whereas the chromatin masses ( two in number , one large , one small ) were small compared to the bulk of the parasite .
Although I could detect no pigment in this parasite I was not otherwise able to distinguish it from a simple tertian parasite.* These points then must remain unsettled until further material is forthcoming .
Quartan.\#151 ; Its amoeboid activity and its tenuity easily distinguish it from this species .
After a prolonged study of this parasite I believe then that its morphology differentiates it from any malaria parasite of man yet described .
I propose to call it Plasmodium tenue .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
The figures were all drawn with an Abbe camera lucida at the same magnification , x 2300 ( approx. ) .
Plate 14.\#151 ; Plasmodium falciparum .
Blood slide from Rhodesia ; 35 parasites drawn at random .
Plate 15.\#151 ; Plasmodium tenue .
Blood slide from Central Provinces , India ; 35 parasites drawn at random .
Plate 16.\#151 ; Plasmodium tenue .
Illustrating the irregularity of form of this parasite .
* I incline to the view , however , that this large form belongs to the other irregular forms , and hence that this parasite enlarges the cell and produces a stippling in it , and hence also that it has affinities with the simple tertian parasite , and Plasmodium canis of the dog rather than with the malignant tertian parasite .

