XIV .
=d Narrcltave of the EartbquakeJ7elt in Lincolnshire , and the neigbbouring Counties , on the 2Sth of Februaryg 1792 .
In a Letter from Edmund Turnor , Esq. F. A. S. to Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. P. R. S. Read May o , oy92 .
DEAR SIR WHEN I heard of the earthquake of the , th of February last , which was felt in Lincolrlshire , and sollle of the neighbouring counties , about a quarter before nine in the evening } I immediately wrote to my friend Captain PENNYMAN , at Little Paunton , near Grantham , desiring him to inform me of the duration and extent of the shock , the direction it came in ; and the state of the ureather before and after it was perceived .
His remarks , together with the subsequent .
ilzfiormation I have obtained , great part of which I derive from yo-ur obliging communication , -may serve to record this recent instance of a phnornenon to the terrors of which this country is butXlittle exposed .
Lord RA\VDON3S stew-ard was sit :ing with his back against Donningto an old massy stacle of chimneys , which gave him a sensible cestelshl ; e. shosre ; he at the same time saw the chairs of other persons in the room move very visibly..Lord Rawdov 's inforelatio ?
z to Szr yoseph Banks An earthquake wTas felt all over this county .
What I felt , R* and it was the general description given of it , was , that it came with a rattling noise , something like wheels running over a pavement , and a trembling shalie , which those who were leaning against a ua11 felt more than those who were standingX or sitting upright .
It lasted a considerable time ; difFerent people estimated it from a quarter of a minute to a minute .
Several thought the noise and shake came from the north or the north-east ; and indeed , I think I heard more of it fror3z the northuTard than the southward of us .
Some thought they heard a thump , as of a heavy thing falling dowIl ; but the rattling and silaklng were much more taken notice of .
Several persons at first suspected it might be a ball of fire , but no such thing was seen ; and nlany were immediately sensible it must Iv antearthquake , especially those who had felt one before .
No material hurt was done by it ; some ho were standing were seen to reel , and one who was walking was thrown against a wall by it , but not hurt ; a stack of\NTOOd was throw-l down , and some said a chinlney .
FI 11eard of it -Newari .
as fax as Newark , in Nottinghamshire ; and it was said to be Biggtefelt at Bigglesurade , in Bedfordshire .
The seasoll was at the Swade conclusion of a frost , there had been a little raill , and a thaw was beginning .
The barometer gradually fell from the 23d to the 26tl1 the thermometer was as ulider : 2Ist , morn .
16.5 ; 22d , %7.3 ; 23d,2z.3 ; zAth , :4.o ; 2sth,34.g ; 26th,3g.8 ; z7th , +O.2 aftern .
28.0 ; 32*6 ; 33#2 ; 3g.o ; 38*o ; 45.5 ; 52.2 I felt the earthquake of September go , z7gSo , as I did this , and heard the same rattling rloise , and my seat shook Ullder me .
Many others heard and felt the salve ; but some described it as the falling down of a weight .
September , z71So , nvas almost all a calm , dry , and hot season , scarce a breath of wind , or a glimpse of sun .
The end was cooler ; but drtr and calln , as before .
The Soth was cloudy and calm , but there was a gentle wind for some time after the earthquake .
Thoynas Barker Esq. in a letler to Mr. rlurHorO The eartllquake at Nottingham , as felt by Dr.\5/ -HtTE ) was Nottillgo undulatory in hoth slloicks ; but ?
in the second , he perceived the direction of the shock to be a little inclined to the horizon , towards the south-east .
At Langar , its noise was like that of a Lallgal .
heavy carriage driving rapidly along .
Here the shock was felt by one or more persolls , but not by all in the same roonl .
I-ts direction was from west to east .
It was felt at Derby very Derby .
-slightly ; and was of no great extent from north to south in these parts , as it was not felt at Harborough to the south , nor at Chesterfield to the north .
It was sharply felt at Stamforcl , Stamford .
and Wandesford , but laot at Alconbury .
NVandesThe Rev. JUdw .
Gregory 's information to Mr Turnor .
the shock seemed to be perpendicular , up and down , as if Belsoir part of the castle had given way ; no noise was perceived Cas le but vitld .
Mr. Kingvs information to ME .
Turnor .
: The mornirag presented a thick fog , which contillued all the Little Patlizt day ; the air extremely heavy and close .
About half past eight colnshire .
in the evening a laoise came on resembling thullder , which lasted nearly half a minute , when two undulatory motions , in the quickest succession , were felt ; a gust of wind ) for soine &lt; :secolldsv instantarleously succeeded , and in about five nlinutes MDGCSCII ) ?
; it rained hearry and large drops , which continued some time .
The windows , window-bells , pewter upon shelves , &amp;c. gave ample evidence of the agitation .
Its direction was frozn northitranston .
west to south-east .
It was slightly felt at Branston , though not at Linco]n .
Captain Pennymann in a letter to Mr TurnorO Beiton .
We were all much alarmed by a violent and sudden shock of an earthquake ; it made the house at Belton shake , and was followed hy a violent gust of windn and a noise like thunder , which lasted about six or seven seconds .
I really thought my chair was sinking into the ground and , after I had recovered myself , I BJas not convinced that one of the frolats of the house , or a chinaney , had not given way , till I had been in all the roorns , where I found every thing in its place .
All the other servants felt it as I did , and the neighbours in the village thought their houses nTere going to fall upon them .
It was Grantham .
felt at Grantham , Manthorpe , and other towns in the neighManthorpe .
bhd Cbr .
Drigield , in a letter to Lord Brownlow .
PeterboAn uncommon rutnbling noise was heard round my preg mises , no yards , resembling that occasiolled by drawing a large garden roller slowly over the pavement .
The sound did not appear like thunder over the head , but upon or near the ground .
The like , in every respect , happened October 27th , &lt; 776 &gt; about a quarter before ten at night .
Rev. Alrchdeacon Brown , in a letter to Mr. Turnor .
Bostons The earth(luake was felt and heard by a lady at Bo$tonj who declared so at the time it happerled , and said , she was sure it was something exraordinary , tlaougll rlo orue:else in the town observed it , orpaid any attention to her till the news of its:having been felt at other places arrived Mr. Fyatel 's ieformation to Sir yosepX Banksc Tlole Transactions of the Royal Sc)ciety give an accoLltlt of thezearthgakes ifn the nortllern parts of E-lglands ill the years z703 and o7tSo .
lthat of the latter year is described as cc hegin ; ning in Derbyshire , and passing of the island , tlarougll Lin ; ; colnshire and part of Cambridgeshire , its direction being from sc west to east .
' &lt; Fl om the preceding Ilarrative it appears , that nearly the same tract of counfry was aiMected by the late con cussion , and that it came in the same direction from west to east ; circumstarlces which corresporld with the observations of Mr. MECHEL ; 1St .
CC That the same places are subject to re ( -c turns of earthquakes at different intervals of time ; " -2dly , c ; Tllat eartllquakes generally come to the same place from Xc one and the same point of the compass .
" These and other facts , that illgenious philosopher adduces in support of his hypothesis that earthquakes are caused by the steam raised by waters , containecI in the cavities of the earth suddenly rushing ill upon subterraneous fires ; which steam , the tnoment lt is generated , itlsinuates itself bel ; ween the strata of the earth , and prodllces the undulatory motion beforementioned .
It may , howtever , be remarked that the state of the airX before the shock , was calm , close , and gloorny , such as is described by Dr. STUKELEY as necessary to prepare the earth to receive all electrical stroke , and the circumstance of its laaving * Phil. Trans. Vol. XL .
p. 7z z. p pg been partially felt in the same rootn may be supposed to favour that hypothesis ; but yet the CONGUSSiOn seems not to have been so strong on the eminence at Belvoir Castle , as it was in the neighbouring vale .
I have the honour to be &amp;c. March IO ) I792 !
EDM TURNQ ,

