iPt4 _T t. MC XT LVI .
l/ 1 ... ( , i Ai , __--t~~~~~ ~~ 'V1\k }I ?
- ?
/\IJ-l , 4 4:_F~ yT9 T1ig .
s p. pt " J " 17 , / A , _ZL ?
---C -1_1____1--__..J__ ---'-----IM-/ Y/ i%2/ 7/ 77 / j " , ~~n .
Se nnyr ~N 77 4-/ 8~ " . ?
/ 7/ f/ / / eSt07 , I ' l-g.p-/ 44 = =n AA_:33 .
Seus oP SFrewrro .
a a2 , .
h.7 Pre &amp; wan -*CpT cved i ?
me shewNel dre o/ flo bowei s elda ?
" y paVd6 o WJ7ua .
&gt; Fig. 9 .
c~er ofl afo raw ovrBourge , .
3.cBase / &amp; .
ig 3.p .
f Fig.lp./ mg .
i. i.§§ ; Z '',4br : ' ?
, r ` L ?
C " . ? .
i ?
Tig , 8 .
TarmndPlar'-p-Ml Illustrations of the Viscous Theory of Glacier Motion .
Part I. Containing Experiments on the Flow of Plastic Bodies , and Observations on the Phenomena of Lava Streams .
By JAMES D. FORBES , Esq. , F.R.SS .
L. and E. , Corresponding Member of the Institute of France , and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh .
Received March 15 , --Read April 10 , 1845 .
§ 1 .
Plastic 1Models .
§ 2 .
Analogy of Glaciers to Lava Streams .
Note on the Velocity of Lava .
§ 1 .
Plastic Models .
IN the concluding chapter of my " Travels in the Alps of Savoy , " I have shown how the obscure relations of the parts of a semnifluid or viscous mass in motion ( such as I have attempted to prove that the glaciers may be compared to ) may be illustrated by experiment .
The larger models , these described and figured , showed very clearly the precise effects of friction upon the motion of such a niass .
They were formed of plaster of Paris , mixed with glue , and run in irregular channels , and the relative velocities of the top and bottom , the sides and centre of such a pasty mass were displayed by the alternating layers of two coloured pastes , which were successively poured in at the head of the model valleys .
The boundaries of the coloured pastes were squeezed by the mutual pressures into greatly elongated curves whose convexity was in the direction of motion ; and in a vertical medial section , the retardation of the bottonm and the mutual action of the posterior and anterior parts , shapeed the bounding surface of two colours into a spoon-like form .
Now these models convey a very palpable commmentary upon the effects of friction on a plastic mass , and likewise on the influence of the mutual pressures of its parts ; but in further illustration of the same thing I constructed another model , only executed as : the printing of my volume approached its close , and which is cursorily described in a long note ( page 377 ) * , whence its real importance may perhaps have been pretty generally overlooked .
The models in question , of which I have since made many , are formed by acc.umulating in one end of a long narrow box , AB , Plate IV .
fig. 1 , a deep pool of the viscid material already mentioned , which is retained there by a sluice or partition C which may be withdrawn at pleasure .
The surface of the pool abed is then pretty thickly dusted over with a coloured powder , and the sluice is withdrawn .
The pasty mass subsides slowly under its own weight into the lengthened form efgh .
The film of colour on the surface is therefore broken up so as to cover three or four times the surface it did at first ; and its new distribution marks the lines of greatest separation of the superficial particles of the mass .
The appearance of such a model when run is shown in fig. 2 , and it manifests in the plainest manner the twofold tendency to separation in such a case where the channel is narrow and confined , and there is a certain mass of matter in front .
Plate V. shows a more accu rate drawing taken from such a model .
The lines of sliding separation occur most distinctly marked near the sides , where the fiiction is greatest , and the central parts are forced past the lateral parts , on account of the less embarrassed and consequently swifter motion of the centre ; and they incline to the centre although the breadth of the channel be perfectly uniform .
But the forces which tear asunder the parts ( when such exists ) act perpendicularly to the former and produce dislocations and fissures , which perfectly correspond to the direction and appearance of the crevasses of a glacier , that is , they are convex upwards or towards the origin of the glacier .
It is the former of these lines of separation , or differential motion , which constitute and trace out with an exact parallelism the veined structure which I have described as forming the normal structure of all true glaciers .
Plate V. is a-representation of a very beautiful plaster model of more consistence than the other , in which the swelling of the surface and the direction of thie open cracks produced by direct thrusts are most beautifully shown ; and are even more so in the model than in the engraving .
The fissures are transverse and slightly convex to the origin in the higher part of the glacier , then gradually turning round they radiate from a centre in the lower part , exactly as in the glacier of Arolla ( Travels in the Alps , Plate VI .
) , and in all similar cases .
The experiment above detailed was suggested to me by studying the ripple of streams of water , which appear to have the same origin : and in very weak currents moving through very smooth and uniform channels ( as the chiseled sides of water conduits ) the same may be made manifest by throwing a handful of light powder on the surface , which then becomes divided into threads of particles inclined in the manner I have described at a certain angle from the side towards the centre , depending on the velocity of the stream .
The slightest prominence of any kind in the wall of such a conduit , a bit of wood or tuft of grass is sufficient to produce a well-marked ripple-streak , from the side towards the centre , depending upon the sudden and violent retardation of the lateral streamlets and the freer central ones being momentarily edged away from them .
The general course of the motion of the particles is , however , scarcely affected by * &amp; L , 7 ' t(L '9 , p '3 L *d tttPJj TALK D3 DELA 3'2l[ rzw 0 ?
' ?
'\i rr ; .:::::.cr ?
.iir , ; - : : : : .
, :PZ ; ' : d " -il"t ii !
:§§ ?
ii LkiI ?
ir iira ?
rjs j aia c`-§§ ; iitxb 7 i !
lrss !
99.-- " L X ' - : " ?
ii2 ?
r c ; §§i:r ?
i:e ?
u`P* , ff ?
it " 'iBi I " : : rl§ 1rc ; 351na ; a , j 3S$ " ':'Zg- !
; !
,7'"alfF_ ?
iTPslis ?
l L -p , , %Bb " ' " ' " fti:art : jf : P f $araddL , '7iiV.11 3 ?
r ?
i':- ?
?il ?
` ?
' .
: ?
-. . ?
: I ?
i §§r§§ . ?
- ?
N'SoC $'"I - .
; : : : : ' ?
; .
such a circumstance , for the differential velocities which cause the ripple and the separation , are always small compared to the absolute velocity of the stream ; and thus a floating body on the water ( just as the moraine on the glacier ) perseveres in its course parallel to the side with scarcely any perceptible disturbance .
When however the descent is violent and the friction great , floating bodies are graduallyv drawn towards the centre , and this happens also in exactly the same circumstances to the moraine of the glacier .
Plate IV .
figs. 3 and 4 , shows the relation of the ripplemarks to the channel of a very flat smooth gutter in one of the side streets of Pisa , sketched after heavy rain .
These ripple-marks in water are well seen near the piers of a bridge , or when a post is inserted in a strean and makes a fan-shaped mark in the water cleft by it : such marks have been much neglected by writers on hydraulics ; but in one of the most ancient hydraulic treatises , that of LEONARDO DA VINCI , lately printed from the MS .
in the Italian collection of writers on hydraulics , they are very well described and figured .
A case parallel to the last-mentioned , where a fixed obstacle cleaves a descending stream and leaves its trace in the fanshaped tail , is well seen in several glaciers , as in that at Ferpecle , and the Glacier de Lys on the south side of Monte Rosa , particularly the last , where the veined structure follows the law just mentioned .
And I desire here to record that the views just presented as to the origin of the veined structure of ice , were confirmed , but were not suggested , by the experiments on viscous fluids just mentioned .
The necessity of the tearing up of a solid mass , if it moved at all in a bed presenting insurmountable resistances on all sides , in directions such as the veined structure presents , was foreseen by me whilst dwelling amongst the glaciers themselves , at a distance from books oi the means of experiment .
The following extract from my Third Letter to Professor JAMESON , written in 1842 from the remote village of Zermatt , contains the substance of all that I have since developed and illustrated at greater length and in different ways rather to meet the difficulties of others , than to confirm what was plainly fixed in my own mind .
" The glacier struggles between a condition of fluidity and rigidity .
It cannot obey the law of semi-fluid progression ( maximurn velocity at the centre , which is no hypothesis in the case of glaciers , but a fact ) , without a solution of continuity perpendicular to its sides .
If two persons hold a sheet of paper so as to be tense , by the four corners , and one move two adjacent corners , whilst the other two remain at rest or mnove less fast , the tendency will be to tear the paper into shreds parallel to the motion ; in the glacier the fissures thus formed are filled with percolated water , which is then frozen .
It accords with this view , --lst , that the glacier moves fastest in the centre , and that the loop of the curve described coincides ( by observation ) with the line of swiftest motion .
2nd .
That the bands are least distinct near the centre , for there the difference of velocity of two adjacent stripes parallel to the length of the glacier is nearly nothing ; but near the sides , where the retardation is greatest , it is a maximum .
3rd .
It accords with direct observation that the differ2 145 ence of velocity of the centre and sides is greater near the lower extremity of the glacier , and that the velocity is more nearly uniform in the higher part ; this corresponds to the less elongated foirms of the loops in the upper part of : the glacier .
4th .
In the highest part of such glaciers , as the curves become less bent the structure also vanishes .
5th .
In the wide saucer-shaped glaciers which descend from mountain slopes , the velocity being as in shallow rivers nearly uniforrn across their breadth , no vertical structure is developed .
On the other hand , the friction of the base determines an apparent stratification , parallel to the slope down which they fall .
6th .
It also follows immediately ( assuming it as a fact very probable , but still to be proved , that the deepest part of the glacier moves slower than the surface ) that the frontal dip of the structural planes of all glaciers diminishes towards their inferior extremity , where it approaches zero , or even inclines outwards , since then the whole pressure of the semi-fluid mass is unsustained by any barrier , and the velocity varies ( probably in a rapid progression ) with the distance from the soil ; whilst nearer the origin of the glacier the frontal dip is great , because the mass of the glacier forms a virtual barrier in advance , and the structure is comparatively indistinct , for the same reason that the transvetrse structure is indistinct , viz. that the neighbouring horizontal prisms of ice move with nearly a common velocity .
7th .
Where two glaciers unite , it is a fact that the structure immediately becomes more developed .
This arises from the increased velocity , as well as friction'rof each due to lateral compression .
8th .
The veined structure invariably tends to disappear when a glacier becomes so crevassed as to lose horizontal cohesion , as when it is divided into pyramidal masses .
Now this imnmediately follows from our theory ; for as soon as lateral cohesion is destroyed , any determinate inequality of motion ceases ; each mass moves singly , and the structure disappears very gradually* .
" In explaining the theory of the veined structure at a meeting of the Royal Society of Edinburgh on the 20th of March 1843 , I stated that I had arrived at the conclusion that crevasses resulting from tension in certain parts of a glacier , must be forrmed at right angles to the surfaces of discontinuity or structural veins where they intersect the surface : a law conformable to the empirical one discovered by me on the glacie of the eo te Rhone in 1841 f- , since generalized in other cases , and which even the adversaries of my theoretical views have admitted to be a correct statement of the facts .
My attention was at that time ( March 1843 ) turned by my learned and acute friend Mr. W. A. CADELL , to the veined structure of the slag of iron furtnaces as ; due to the difference of velocity of the parts producing surfaces of separation and peculiar molecular condition .
The transition was easy to the case of volcanic rocks and lava streams , and this case was pressed on my attention by an unexpected journey which I soon after undertook to Italy and Sicily .
§ 2 .
Analogy of Glaciers to Lava Streams .
There is something pleasing to the imagination in the unexpected analogies presented by a torrent of fiery lava and the icy stream of a glacier .
But when we look upon the comparison historically and critically , and find how generally this analogy has been perceived and adverted to by persons of very different views and talents of observation , we are strongly tempted to suspect that some latent cause confers the marked resemblance .
This cause I of course consider to be the laws and condition of their motion , the struggle of a setni-fluid mass of enormous weight creeping down a mnountain side , in which fluidity and solidity are so curiously combined , that we should be at a loss in either case how to name it ; a straining , crackling , splintering solid , heaved on by the internal energy of the latent fluidity which pervades it , and which at last succeeds in giving to the general character of the motion and the moving mass , those of fluid bodies subject to the law of gravity ; whilst the parts , themlselves almost rigid , have that rigidity most fantastically subjected to the action of the dominant principle .
In illustration of what has now been said , I shall quote passages from some authors which , without particular research , have come under my notice expressive of the analogy just mentioned .
Mrs. STARK , the author of a well-known guide book of Italy , published many years ago , speaks of having seen near the crater of Vesuvius in 1818 , " five distinct streams of fire issuing from two mouths , and rolling wave after wave slowly down the mountain with the same noise ( ?
) and in the same manner as the melting glaciers roll into the valley of Clhamouni ; indeed this awful and extraordinary scene would have brought to mind the Montanvert , had it not been for the crimson glare and excessive heat of the surrounding scoriae* .
" Mr. AULDJO , an intrepid alpine traveller , writing about Vesuvius , in 1832 , says , " The field of lava in the interior of the crater , enclosed within a lofty and irregular I)ank , might be likened to a lake whose agitated waves had been suddenly petrified ; and in many respects resembles the Mers de Glace , or level glaciers of Switzerland , although in its origin and materials so very differentt .
" And the view in the same work of " streams of lava on the south-east of the cone " presents a perfect analogy to a glacier , bearing on its surface three medial and two lateral moraines .
Captain BASIL HALL , writing of Vesuvius at a later period , uses these remarkable expressions whilst describing an eruption of lava:- " The colour of this stream was a brilliant pink , much brighter at the sides than in the middle , where either from the cooling of the surface , or the accumulation of cinders and broken pieces of stone , a sort of dark ridge or backbone was visible from end to end , not unlike the moraine on the top of a glacier .
This reminds In of a curious analogy which often struck me , between two objects so dissimilar as a glacier and a lava stream .
They are both , more or less , frozen rivers ; they both obey the law of gravitation with great reluctance , being essentially so sluggish , that although they both move along the bottoms of valleys with a force well nigh irresistible , their motion is sometimes scarcely perceptible* .
" This remarkable passage , worded with the usual scrupulous care of the author , combined with his account of the mechanism of a glacier in the description of the glacier of Miage in the same work , show that he had arrived at more correct notions on the subject than any of his contemporaries ; notions which chiefly required careful observation to give them the force of demonstration .
The allusion to moraines as characteristic of lava streams as well as glaciers , in the preceding extract , is perfectly borne out by the view of the lava of 1831 given by Mr. AULDJO and already cited ; the same appearance is mentioned by M. ELIE DE BEAUMONT in his account of Etna in the following terms : " Un des circonstances que les coulees de lava pr6sentent le plus invariablement ** ** consiste en ce que chaque coul6e est flanqu6e de part et d'autre par un digue de scories accumulees qui rapellent par sa form la moraine d'un glacier , *** souvent aussi les coul6es.pr6sentent de pareilles digues verse leur milieu , lorsqu'elles sont partagees en plusieurs courants distincts coulant l'un a cot6 de l'autret .
" In another place the same author compares the movement of the upper crust of the lava to that of glaciers according to the then prevalent theory:- " L'ecorce superieure d'une coulee separee de 1'6corce inferieure et da sol sousjacent par un certain 6paisseur de lave liquid , ou du moins visqueuse , se trouve dans un 6tat comparable a celui d'un glacier , qui , no pouvant adherer au sol sousjacent a cause de la fusion continuelle de sa couch inf6rieure , se trouve contraint de glisser+ .
" Finally , M. RENDU , Bishop of Annecy , in his excellent Essay on Glaciers , refers in one passage ( and I believe in one only ) to the possible analogy with a lava stream , c [ le glacier ] s'affaisse-t-il sir lui-m6me pour couler le long des pentes comme le ferait un lave a la fois ductile et liquid ?
" TIhe following consideirations seem to show more than a general external analogy between lava streams and glaciers .
Their velocities are sometimes equally slow .
Although common lava is nearly as liquid as melted iron , when it issues from the orifice of the crater , its fluidity rapidly diminishes , and as it becomes more and more burdened by the consolidated slag through which it has to force its way , its velocity of motion diminishes in an almost inconceivable degree , and at length , when it ceases to present the slightest external trace of fluidity , its movement can only be ascertained by careful and repeated observations , just as in the case of a glacier .
In November 1843 , I watched lava issuing rapidly from a small mouth in the crater of Vesuvius at the rate of about one foot in a second .
The eruption of Etna in 1832 advanced at the rate of five miles in two days , which is at the rate of one foot in about six seconds* .
We may contrast with this the eruption of Etna in 1614 , which yielded a lava which advanced but two tniles in ten years according to DOLOMIEUt , during the whole of which time its motion was sensible .
This gives a mean rate of rather more than three feet per day ; but at the conclusion it was no doubt much slower .
Mr. SCROPE+ saw the lava of 1819 in the Val del Bove moving down a considelrable slope at the rate of a yard a day , nine months after its eruption .
It had , he adds , the appearance of a huge heap of rough cinders ; its progression was marked by a crackling noise due to firiction and straining , and " ' on the whole was fitted to produce any other idea ' than that of fluidity .
In fact , " he continues , " we must represent to ourselves the mode in which the crystalline particles of lava move amongst one another , rather as a sliding or slipping of their plane surfaces over each other , facilitated by the intervention of the elastic ( ?
) fluid , than as the rotatory movement which actuates the molecules of most other liquids .
" It is generally conformable to this view that we find in HAMILTON'S Campi Phlegrcei ( fol. 1 .
38 .
Note ) the curious remark that some lava is so incoherent , or whilst fluid has so little viscosity , that in issuing from the volcano ( Vesuvius ) it has appeared " farinaceous , the particles separating as they forced their way out , just like meal coming from under the grindstones .
" From all this it is quite clear that the seeming rapidity of the parts of a glacier , or the slowness of its motion , cannot be taken as the slightest evidence of its moving othelwise than as a fluid , contending with the rigor of the parts which include and resist the moving force , which is truly hydrostatic though limited in its exercise .
It is manifestly futile and unphilosophical to seek one cause of motion in a lava which , like that of Vesuvius in 1805 , must have described as many hundred feet in a minute as that of 1614 from Etna probably did in a year ?
; for the mean daily motion of the latter during ten years was three feet ; but toward the end of that time it must evidently have had for a long period an average motion of one-half or onequarter of this , and therefore below the observed mean movements of certain glaciers .
Fluidity , in the first instance as in the second , was the propelling vehicle or manner in which gravity acted , and this is a sufficient answer to any attempt to maintain that the plasticity of a glacier is a collateral but not a primary cause of motion , -a distinction surely without a difference .
As in the case of all imperfect fluids , the central and superficial particles move faster than the lateral and inferior ones , and when the fluidity is exceedingly imperfect , as in those long-flowing lavas , there must be a rupture of continuity between the parts to permit them to slide and jostle past one another .
This is evidently the cause of the noise referred to by Mr. SCROPE and other writers .
This tearing up of the stream into longitudinal stripes , occasioned by the varying velocity of the parts , is thus described by M. DUFRENOY in his account of Vesuvius : La plupart des coulees pr6sentent des bands longitudinales assez parallIles entre else : ces larges stries saillantes sir la surface sont les traces du mouvement de la lave qui no s'avance pas d'une seule piece , mais par bands parallOles* .
" And M. ELIE DE BEAUMONT describes a lava stream at Etna in these terms : " La surface offrait de profondes cannelures parallbles entre else , dirig6es dans le sens du mouvement qui I'avoit d6versee 'a Fext6rieur et qui 6taient crois6es par de nombreuses gerfures transversalest .
" Here then is evidently the twofold system of rents and perpendicular fissures described in the commrencement of this paper as being found in the models , and as being conformable to the phenomena of glaciers .
During the winter 1843-44 which I spent in Italy , I had an opportunity of testing these resemblances , and tracing others to glaciers in the lavas of Vesuvius and Etna .
I entered on the inquiry with a very jealous care of being drawn into the admission of fanciful or imperfect analogies ; and I shall confine myself to the statement of one or two most plain and undeniable confirmations , selected from the results of many fatiguing rambles .
The plastic nature of the viscous lavas of Vesuvius and Etna is such as well might obliterate any internal traces of rents due to differential velocity , which , in the mass , are speedily closed and reunited as in a stream of treacle , or in the plaster models before explained , where the interior is homogeneous and the superficial coating above is permanently dislocated .
In lavas the indescribable ruggedness of the surface very generally prevents any record of the gentler play of forces .
The following facts appear to me quite conclusive as to the manner in which a mass partially solidified , yet moving as a fluid , is torn up by the interior forces which act upon it .
1 .
At Vesuvius , the Fossa della Yetrana between the Hermitage and Monte Somma , is a valley lined with the lava of 1751 .
I here observed that the lava was in some places detached from the wall of the valley , leaving a cavity on the sheltered side of a projecting elbow of rock , just as a glacier does in similar circumstances , showing the considerable consistence which the lava possessed .
In the upper part of this Fossa the lava has a distinct linear structure where broken , in shells parallel to the sides , whose thickness varies from one-third of an inch upwards .
The position of these surfaces of dislocation is indicated ( for illustration ) in figure 5 of Plate IV .
2 .
In the vast lava wastes of Etna , we encounter not only a greater extent of surface , but a greater variety of condition as to cohesion of the lava streams , and the slope down which it has descended , and thus we have a better chance of meeting with specimens of the manner in which the semi-solid crust of a lava stream is torn up and crevassed by the effect of gravity compelling it into the circumstances of fluid motion .
From this tendency of all lavas to form slags , and of these slags to be splintered , tossed , and remoulded by the action of the still liquid portion of the stream below or around , not one-thousandth of the surface bears marks of the simple condition of fluidity under which it was originally mnoulded ; and though when viewed from a distance , and in .
connexion with the form of the ground over which it has passed , we see plainly enough that it has flowed like a stream , the absence of any trace of easy undulating forms which characterise fluids or plastic masses , give to the sciarre of Etna ( the cheires of Auvergne ) an appearance far more removed from pristine fluidity than the glacier masses of Switzerland .
In traversing many miles of lava wastes between Nicolosi and Zafarana , on the eastern slope of Etna , I met with one singularly favourable specimen of a branch of a stream consolidated exactly as it had moved , and undisturbed afterwards .
It is the part of the current of 1763 , called Lava dell Cerve .
The branch stream in question may be ten yards wide , and presents a thin crust , which has floated on the viscid lava below , and which , while yet imperfectly solidified , has been urged to move with the rest of the stream , and has undergone a process of division and rending accordingly .
The stream has flowed in the direction from left to right in figure 6 .
The lateral parts PP , QQ have been literally torn to pieces longitudinally ( as I wrote on my note-book on the spot ) by the multiplied rents which showed the dislocation of the quicker moving central from the lateral parts , and these rents inclined towards the centre of the stream in the direction in which it moved .
The length of the stream was divided by transverse rients strikingly convex towards the origin of the streasm , as shown in the same figure .
These cracks were marked by another peculiarity ; the cake of floating scoria had not only been cracked across but pushed upwards , generally forwards and upwards , before it was finally included in the cooling mass of the stream ; the result was the arrangement shown in the longitudinal section , fig. 7 , which it will be seen resembles the tiling of a house , only that the fractured parts do not always overlap , but the anterior edge is tilted upwards .
It will thus be seen that this tendency to sepatation acts also in the vertical plane , and the dotted lines aa ' , bb ' , &amp;c. indicate the direction of its action , coinciding with the surfaces of differential motion , which produce what I have called the frontal dip of the veined structure of the ice of glaciers .
jIDCCCXLVI .
X 151 At no great distance from this lava , and near the foot of the hillock called the Serra Pizzuta , between the last-named point and the valley of Tripodo , I observed a transverse section of a lava stream exhibiting an arrangement in bands or plates , nearly parallel to the side of the current , but inclining towards the centre .
4 .
Between Zafarana and the Porta Calanna ( Etna ) , a remarkably pretty illustration occurs in the surface of an oldl lava stream , worn and polished by the action of a brook .
Where the lava has had to turn an abrupt corner of a rock , A , figure 8 ( which represents a ground plan ) , the progress of the lava being violently checked by the iesistance of the projecting mass , has been torn up into longitudinal shreds , which from imperfect fluidity have not reunited , but have left open cavities of the forrm represented in the figure , which exhibit with remarkable fidelity the forms of the fissures with which glaciers are sometimes traversed , when they are subjected to sudden transitions in their states of motion ( as in the glacier des Bossons at Chamouni ) , and which coincide in direction with the veined structure , and pass into it by imperceptible gradations .
5 .
What I have called the frontal dip of the veined structure in glaciers* , I have explained by the accumulation of a sluggish mass of considerable extent upon a floor or bed offering the resistance of intense fricti ; in consequence of which the mass of ice , urged downwards and forwards by its intense weight , being resisted by the friction of that which immediately precedes it , must yield in the direction of least resistance , or squeeze itself in a slanting direction forwards and upwards , and thus sliding over the resisting mass immediately in front , will produce surfaces of discontinuity or differential velocity in that direction .
Such a result I inferred from general principles without reference to any particular example , and the explanation of the superficial convexity of the lower part of many glaciers was evidently satisfactorily explained by it .
The convex swelling fotrm of a viscous stream will depend principally upon the relative measure of two quatntities , the stiffness or viscosity of the fluid , and the inclination of the surface ; although it will also depend on the part of the stream , whether near the origin or the termination , which we consider .
I have found this variation from concave to convex , depending upon circumstances , alike in glaciers and lava streams .
Some very highly inclined small glaciers existing at considerable heights , and therefore very hard and consistent , are , nevertheless , deeply concave from end to end , the slope compensating for the stiffness of the matter ; such is a beautiful glacier , named , as far as I can learn , La Gria , orl Glacier de Bourget , which descends from the Aiguille de Gout6 towards the valley of Chamouni .
See Plate IV .
fig. 9 .
Many , perhaps most , lava streams , where they have well-determined banks , are concave during the longer part of their course , but towalds their termination they become convex as their viscosity increases .
Nevertheless , I have seen portions of well-bounded streams decidedly convex .
The appearance of the termination of a lava streamr approaches strikingly that of a glacier .
But this is much more than a vague analogy , and the accounts of faithful eye-witnesses prove the resisted otion of the doughy stream to be such as I anticipated .
We find it explicitly stated over and over again in the writings of DOLOMIEU* and DELLA TOR t ( and more particularly by the latter ) , that when a lava stream meets with any obstacle in front which checks its course , or when its course is checked by its own sluggishness , the stream swells , and gains gradually in thickness by the fluid pressure from behind urging its particles forwards and upwards .
So striking was this natural effect of semi-fluid pressure , that these old observers attributed it to a peculiar force developed in the lava , of the nature of " fermentation , " producing intumescence , the only way by which they could account for the vertical rise of the fluid , although it was very evident that the result was only what might be expected from the natue of the lava .
It was also obseve that wen the lava strea had thus attained a certain height , it began to move on again , the necessary result of the increased hydrostatic pressure , although attributed by the authors named to the heat developed-by chemical action .
The tenacity with which the idea was long adhered to , that the residual fluidity of a nearly cooled lava stream was insufficient to account for its progress , without attributing to it the qualities of a second volcanic focus , are curious proofs of how long a palpable cause may be rejected as insufficient to explain a phenomienon , and a totally imaginary one superadded : .
I may add , that lava streams sometimes push their extremities up hill ?
; glaciers ldo the same .
In addition to the considerations already stated , which illustrate the viscous theory of glaciers , I am glad to avail myself of two which have reached me from independent and impartial sources .
he first is by r. ARWINwho iy na small book on Volcanic Islands , " published about the time that I was engaged in making the preceding observations on Etna and Vesuvius , pointed out in a very clear manner the explanation which the veined structurte of glaciers lends to that of volcanic rocks belonging to the Trachytic and Obsidian Series , where the lamnination , instead of being obscure and rare , as it generally is in the Augitic lavas , owing perhaps to their greater fluidity , and more viscid and homogeneous texture , is the general rule .
" The most probable explanation , " says Mr. DARWIN , " of the laminated structure of these felspathic rocks appears to be that they have been stretched whilst flowing slowly onwards in a pasty condition , in precisely the same manner as Professor Forbes believes that the ice of moving glaciers is stretched and fissured .
In both cases the zones may be compared to the finest agates ; in both they extend in the direction in which the mass has flowed , and those exposed on the surface are generally vertical * .
" The other illustration is contained in a communication with which I have been favoured by Mr. GORDON , Ptofessor of Civil Engineering in Glasgow , and which has been printed in the Philosophical Magazine for March 1845 , to which therefore I may refer .
I need only state at present that it demonstrates , from observations on the flow of Stockholm pitch with a speed wholly insensible , and which requires some months for its accomplishment even in small masses , that a motion , of the nature of fluid motion , takes place at temperatures at which the pitch remains so hard as to be fragile throughout , and presents angular fragments with a conchoidal fracture .
Mr. GORDON adds , that the resistance of the pitch to its own forward motion produces bands of differential velocity and having thefrontal dip .
Edinburgh , February 26 , 1845 .
Note on the Velocity of Lava , referred to in p. 149 .
The following are a few facts which I have collected on the velocity of lava .
That of Vesuvius in 1805 appears to be the most fluid on record .
VON BUCH , who was in company with MM .
DE HUMBOLDT and GAY-LuSSAC , describes it as shooting suddenly before their eyes from top to bottom of the cone in one single instantt , which must correspond to a velocity of many hundred feet in a few seconds without interpreting it literally .
MELOGRAMI , quoted by BREISLAK+ , says it described three miles in four minutes , or about seventy-five feet per second at a mean .
The same lava , when it reached the level road at Tor del Greco , moved at the rate of only eighteen inches per minute , or three-tenths of an inch per second 5 .
The lava of 1794 ( Vesuvius ) reached the sea , a distance of 12,961 feet , in six hours , or passed over one-third of a mile per hour , or eight inches per second II ; whilst the lava of Etna , in 1651 , described sixteen miles in twenty-four hours , or above a foot per second the whole way .
That of 1669 ( Etna ) , which destroyed Catania , described the first thirteen miles of its course in twenty days , or at the rate of 162 feet per hour , but required twenty-three days for the last two miles , giving a velocity of twenty-two feet per hour ?
; and we learn from DoLo* DARWIN on Volcanic Islands , 1844 .
The whole passage , pp. 65-72 , illustrates this analogy .
t BibliothUque Britanique , vol. xxx .
The vertical height of the cone proper is 700 or 800 feet ; the length of the slope may therefore be 1300 feet .
$ Institutions Gdologiques , iii .
142 . ?
NICHOLSON'S Journal , vol. xii .
t1 BREISLAK , Campanie , i. 203 .
t1 FERRABA , Descr .
del Etna , p. 105 .
This appears from the dates , though at variance with one assertion of the author .
that this same stream moved during part of its course at the rate of 1500 feet an hour , and in others took several days to cover a few yards* .
The lava of 1753 ( Vesuvius ) , starting with a velocity of 2500 feet per holr , soon dilninished to sixty feett , as did that of 1754 to the same+ ; and of 1766 to thirty feet per hour ? .
The lava of 1831 ( Vesuvius ) moved over 3600 feet in twenty-six hours , and finally advanced steadily at the rate of ten feet an hour/ l. The lava of Etna of November 1843 , is said to have moved over three paces per second at the distance of a mile from the crater .
The stream of 1761 ( Vesuvius ) , before it stopped flowing , advanced but three yards a day ?
; and that of 1766 , which continued moving for about nine months , moved over but a small space in that time .
Had the attention of authors been equally directed to the slow as to the rapid advancement of lava , there is no doubt that we should find many instances besides these recorded by DOLOMIEU and SCROPE , of continuous movements of three feet , and even one foot a day , or less .

