]\gt ; Determination ofof effect when the bubbles are small is borne out observation , but it is difficult to make quantitative periments in these cases .
When the proportion of air to water is large the mixture becomes a froth that is a ) of bubbles separated ] thin films of liquid .
The problem of ting the viscous reaction in such a mixtul.e is one I not attempted to solve .
iment , however , that froth is a most efficient agent in This may be shown in a simple and stliking } as follows : prepared a sufficient quantity of fine grained froth in a flat dish soap and water , take a wine lass or tnnlblelhich gives a clear lnusical note when uck .
Dip the month of the glass into the froth ' about a quartel of an inch and withdla it .
A thin .
of froth will be left lound , perhaps , 1 or 2 .
Small as this quantity of froth is be found suflicient to damp the ibration so as to depl i the sound of an .
musical character .
the ) of ) By ( Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O. I. , F.B.S. Received , \mdash ; , 1910 .
As addition to my ) aper , pnblished in the ' on the determination of the of } , I to set the ving remarks the ) of the value of tension it formed water-surface , of ) the determination of Prof. P. Lenard has , in a } ) ) telv published : deterrnined of a recently ) wRter-hurface } of tion o falling drops , and has this tension found vahles n hich are greater than those found by other methods .
this , as vell ils the results of experiments blished in former he concludes recently formed -surface very tension , hich , ever ' Phil. Trans , 1909 , vol. 209 , p. 281 .
Sitzun gsber .
Heidelbel.ger Akacl .
lVis .-nat .
Kl . .
1910 , Ann. Pllys .
188 vol. 30 , p. Mr. N. Bohr .
Determination of the [ Aug. 22 , in the course of a very short time ( fraction of a second ) decreases considerably .
He remarks that this result is in agreement with experiments published in my paper mentioned above .
I shall , however , in the following try to explain the reasons why I cannot in these conclusions .
The determination of the surface-tension published in my paper cited was carried out by the method of jet-vibrations , the theoretical founda- tion of which method , as well as of the method used by Prof. Lenard , is due to Lord As to the closer ation of vibration of the , especially with regard to the satisfaction of the suppositions made in the theoretical treatment of the enon , a great number of vibrations , commencing just at the orifice and in the most stable .
extending to a distance of more than cm .
from this ( the velocity of the jets was about 425 cm .
) , were examined b.v my experiments .
hese measurements showed that the was nob the same everywhere , but that , advancing from the orifice , it increased in inning rather rapidly and thereupon more slowly until finally from a of about 20 cm .
from the orifice and as far as the stability of the jet allowed the measurin , , the became practically perfectly constant .
tables , This result consequently showed the existence of certain irregularities of the phenomenon , which arise in the mation of the jet , and which are rapidly ( in about see .
) extinguished ( loc. cit. , p. 309 ) .
These irregularities partly be thought to inate from possible variations of the value of the surface-tension in the time immediately after the formation of the surface , partly from irregularities of a more mechanical ( hydrodynamical ) character .
Since the last-mentioned irregularities , as explained in my former paper , must decrease rapidly on emoval from the issue of the jet , the result of the showed } the surface-tension , in evcry case from about second after mation o the sulface , and as long as it was possible to investigate the tension by the used method , was sensibly constant .
This constant value was considered as ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1879 , vo1 .
.39 , p. 71 .
Prof. Lenard remarks in last paper that the mechanical irregularities certainly must decrease , but cannot , even far from the orifice , completely ( lisappear , on account of the resistance of the air against the movement of the jet .
As , however , the effect of the air reRistance removing from the orifice very rapidly will ecome constant , we see that an influence of this resistance on the phenomenon will not affect the above conclusion of the constancy of the surface-tension , but it can only cause an nlteration of the value found for this constant tension .
As to the question of the magnitude of the influence of the air resistance , I mention here an unpublished experimade during my first investigation .
Around jet , at a distance of about 10 cm .
from the orifice , was placed large and carefully worked iris diaphragm , so 1910 .
] of a the sought value for the surface-tension , it was in every case the only one which could be compared with values found by other methods , in which the investigated surfaces always have been much older than second .
Concerning the question of a possible variation of the surface-tension the time from the formation of the surface until some second later , it seems to me that my nents do not any reason to conclude an existence of such a variation , there being , as we shall see , objection in explain ing the found variation in the wave-length by ) of the velocity-differences veen concentric parts of the jet produced by friction during its formation , by which the central parts receive a ) velocity than the parts nearer the surface .
These velocity-differences decrease , removing from the issue , on account of the viscosity in the jet : the mean velocity of the jet eeping constant , this effects that the velocity of the outer parts increases at the same time as velocity of the central parts decreases .
That the are shorter close to the orifice than at a greater distance from this has always seemed to me to be a natural consequence of the velocity of the surface ( the outer parts ) here smaller and the waves in question surface-waves ( the velocity of the vibrating liquid-particles is beconling smaller } from the , and is in the axis of the jet ) .
In his above-cited paper ( loc. p. 4 ) , Prof. Lenard , however , is of the opinion that the innel mixture\mdash ; produced uing the motion , on accoun of the mutual ] of the concentric parts of the jet\mdash ; will an apparent increase of the mass , and a thereby prolongation the time of vibration and increase of the For the closer examination of this question , I have therefore made the direct calculation of the assun ) ption that the different concentric parts of the jet are with diffferent velocities .
that the jet just passed through the centre of the diaphragm .
This was at first open , so that a free space of 5 cm .
( the opening of the diaphragm cm .
) surrounded the jet .
hereupon the diaphragm was closed , so that the free space between the jet and the diaphragm was not more than some mm. , and at the same time a wave-su1nmit of the jet at a distance of 30 cm .
from the orifice was fixed in a telescope help of reflection ill the surface of the jet .
It was then observed that the mentioned summit during the closing of the diaphragm was displaced only little ( less than This simple experiment was repeated several times with exactly the result .
As such a closing of the diaphr .
must increase the resistance of the air to a considel able degree , completely stopping the mass of set in motion by the jet ( the jet produces sensible blast ) , the experiment , in my opinion , shows very distinctly that the resistance cannot any appreciable influence on the results .
As will be show in the following , an air resistance would besides introduce a correction of lalue of the surface-tension , the sign of which would be opposite to that supposed by Prof. .
N. Bohr .
Determination of the [ Aug. 22 , The equations of motion of an incompressible non-viscous fluid unaffected by extraneous forces , are , ( 1 ) and , ( 2 ) in which are the components of the velocity , the pressure , the density , and In the problem in question the motion will be steady .
Putting and supposing that , and are so small that products of them , and quantities of the same order of nitude , can ) ected in the calculations , we from the equations ( 1 ) .
( 3 ) Introducing polar co-ordinates and ) , and the vadial and tangential velocity and , w by help of the relations from ( 3 ) , assuming to be a function of .
only .
, ( 4 ) and .
( o ) that , and have the form get from ( 4 ) .
( b ) In the case is con stant , the solution of ( 6 ) , subject to the colldition to be imposed when , is ( 7 ) in which is the syml ) of the Bessel 's function of order . .
( 8 ) we get from ( 6 ) .
( 9 ) 1910 .
] Tension of a ecently f We will now suppose that , in which the constant is the mean velocity of the jet , and a quantity small compared with c. In this case is small , and terms of the same order of onitude as , we from ( 9 ) .
( 10 ) In the experiments the numerical value of will be a very small quantity\mdash ; the laroeo in comparison to the diameter of the jet\mdash ; in order not to complicate the formulae , will therefore in the calculation of only use the first term of the expression for .
This ooives the solution of ( S ) becomes The motion being finite for , we have Integrating by part we get .
( 11 ) Let us suppose that the equation of the surface is The yeneral surface condition whence we quantities of the same order of , as by the equations ( :3 ) In the ] ) anner } further , if the principal of ) and Calling the surface-tension , the dynan ical surface-condition will ) const .
From this we the same approximation as before and From ( 12 ) get , and ( 8 ) , ( 13 ) 400 Mr. N. Bohr .
rmination of the [ Aug. 22 , From ( 13 ) we get .
by help of ( 11 ) and with the same approximation as used in the calculation of This equation is , except the last term , the solntion given by Lord ayleigh .
We therefore see that the effect of the velocity-differences between concentrical parts of the jet consists in an exchange in the formula for the wave-length , of the mean velocity of the jet by an " " effective mean velocity We see from that the greater is , the nearer the effective mean velocity will be to the velocity of the surface , which is explained by the fact that the greater ( the number of waves on the circumf.erence of a section of jet ) is , the rapidly the velocity of the vibrating liquid particles will decrease , moving from the surface towards the axis of the jet .
It can now be shown that will be smaller than , if the velocity of the jet\mdash ; which will be the case in the experiments\mdash ; is greatest in the middle ( continually decreases approaching the surface ; being the mean velocity of the jet , we have , and in the case in question further where .
From this we Ctet f ( in the experiments ) .
After seen the velocity-differences in question will produce a variation of the wave-length in the same direction as found by the experi- lnent , we shall further see how the decrement of the variation of the can also be explained by the manner in which the ences will decrease .
In order to show this , we shall use the four experiments quoted in the table , .
cit. , p. 310 .
In the table below is the mean radius of the jet , the velocity ( calculated from the mean adius and the discharge ) , and under the indication , the difference etween the wave-length , measured between the wave-summits and the constant value to which the wave-leno.thso were tending , diyided by the difference between the wave-length , measured between the sunnnits II and III , the mentioned constant value ( in these differences introduced the small corrections for the curvature of the jet and for the -amplitudes mentioned in the table , loc. cit. , p. 311 ) ; under the 1910 .
] Tension of recently formed ce .
401 indication is quoted the difference between the mean value of the of the summits and and the mean values of the II and III .
Further , under the indication is quoted the between the variations of the wave-length in two places corresponding to a time-interval of 1/ 100 sec. ( calculated on the assumption that the variations decrease after an exponential law ) .
Un der the indication is finally quoted the ratio between the velocity differences in the jet in two places corresponding to a time-interval of 1/ 100 sec. , calculated from the theoretical formula , I. II .
a 5 .
0.59 0 .
0 .
0.59 0 .
0 .
0.59 0 .
0 .
0.59 0 .
0 .
0.59 0 .
0 .
0.59 0 .
0 .
0.59 0 .
As will be seen , the calculated and found values for the decrement of the variation of the wave-lengths with regard to the order of magnitude , and more was not to be expected from such an approximate calculation .
It is thus not justified to expect that the distribution of the velocity in jetsections so close to the orifice could be completely expressed by the term in formula on p. 298 .
After having now seen that my experiments do not give any reasons the conclusion of the existence of a variation in the surface-tension durinero the first time after the formation of the surface , we shall proceed to mention the values for the surface-tension of a recently formed water-surface found by Prof. Lenard by his fations of the vibrations of falling drops .
The surfaces there investigated must , in my opinion , be considered as much older than the surfaces investigated by my experiments , on account of the of the time used for the formation of the drops .
Prof. Lenard remarks in his last paper [ loc. cit. , p. 11 , note ( 18 ) ] , that this time\mdash ; amounting from to sec. in his first paper , and from to sec. in his last\mdash ; will contribute only a very little to the age of the surface of the drops , new surface continually being formed during this time .
This circumstance does 0.08010 4.30 0.54 0 .
Determination of ension of Water-Surface .
not , however , seem to me sufficiently to justify the neglecting of this , in this connection , very time .
I should rather be inclined to agree with the opinion set forth in his former PaPer , according to which the time for the formation of the drops is considered a measure for the age of the surface ( loc. cit. , p. 233 ) .
A comparison between the experiments of Prof. Lenard ( ibid. , p. 236 ) and of Lord Rayleigh* on the surface-tension of a solution of soap seems also distinctly to show that the time of formation of the drops has a great influence on the condition of the surface .
By the experiments of Lord Rayleigh with vibrating jets , the surface-tension of a solution of soap , 1/ 100 second after the formation of the face , was thus found to be very near to that of pure water ; while Prof. Lenard by experiments with vibrating drops ( tinl of formation greater than sec. ) finds the surface-tension of a soap solution of corres ondincr s ( 1 : 1000 ) less than half that of water and rather near the value of the surface-tension of a soap solution .
It appears , from the preceding , that the high values of the tension of a recently formed water-surface and the rapid decreasing of this value , which Prof. Lenard has found by his experiments , are not in agreement with the result of my previous peliments , because the tension of water-surfaces of lower ag than those ated by Prof. Lenard have been found much smaller and pelfectly constant within the time teryal ( from to second after the uion of the surface ) during which the method allowed the determination of ension .
The cause of the great deyiation between the results found by the method of drop-vibration and those found by the method of jet-vibration must , in opinion , be sought in the circumstance that sufficient regard as to the influence of irregularities of ) character , arising from the disement of the drops , is scarcely taken by the drop method .
The investigation of the influence of such irregularities seems also much more difficult vibrating drops than vibrating jets , the investigation by the latter very much facilitated by the perfectly steady character of the phenomenon .
these , I might call attention to the good agreement between the value of the tension of a water-surface second old dine / cm .
at found in my paper , and values of the tension of a water-surface found by statical methods dine / cm .
at 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1890 , vol. 47 , p. 281 .
As to the result found by other methods , I might refer to the discussion in my former paper .
'Wied .
Ann 1895 , vol. 56 , p. 45 Obse ?
of the C. , .
This agreement ceems to show that the tension of a water-surface already only second after the formation of tlJe surface ( and according to what is discussed in the present probably earlier ) assumed the nt value which the tension , if contaminations are kept , will very time .
Tidal of , 1907 .
SIR .
, F.P.S. ( Received ) tember 2ovember 1 , 1910 .
) The } ) resent iation undertaken at the request of hackleton ; the expense of the eduction rayed by hinl , and this paper is now to Society by his pelmission .
ultimately be republished as a contribution to the volume of the sical results of the expedition .
The first section , describing the method of is by Janles Inrray .
The second section explains the reduction of the vatiollS and gives a comparison veen the new results and those ined by the " " Discovery\ldquo ; in ) .
The section is devoted to the of certain remarkable oscillations of mean sea-level and to speculations as to their cause and I.\mdash ; ON T11E IETHOD Early in June , , preparations were for the erection of tideauge , the most feature of which to be a made from modified raph .
ious delnys and lnishaps it was not the nliddle of July that the completel in its form , and the continuous record which was carlied on for more than three months , subject only to the loss of half an ekly , while the : was being Dr. Iackay undertook the erection of instrument , the ratus was devised by the joint gestions of .
David , fackay , lawson , Murray , while .
Day did the mure delicate part of the work , nanlely .
the alteration of the raph .
'Math .
es Termeszettud 1885 , vol. 3 , p. 54 ( Budapest ) .

