242 Messrs* L. Mond , W. Ramsay , and J. Shields .
[ June 20 , These results are taken from a longer paper on panmixia and regression , which ill-health has prevented my completing up to the present date .
VIII .
" On the Occlusion of Oxygen and Hydrogen by Platinum Black .
( Part I. ) " By Ludwig Mond , F.R.S. , William Ramsay , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and John Shields , D.Sc .
, Ph. D. Received June 13 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The authors describe some preliminary experiments on the occlusion of oxygen and hydrogen by platinum sponge and foil , which in general confirm the results obtained by Graham .
At most only a few volumes of these gases are occluded by the more coherent forms of platinum .
After giving details of what they consider the best method of preparation of platinum black , they next describe some experiments which had for their object the determination of the total quantity of water retained by platinum black , dried at 100 ' C. , and the amount of water which can be removed from platinum black at various temperatures in vacuo .
As the result of these experiments they find that platinum black dried at 100 ' retains in general 0*5 per cent , of water , and this can only be removed in vacuo at a temperature ( about 400 ' ) at which the black no longer exists as such , but is converted at least partially into sponge .
At any given temperature the water retained by platinum black seems to be constant .
The density of platinum black dried at 100 ' C. is 19'4 , or allowing for the water retained by it at this temperature , 21*5 .
The amount of oxygen given off by platinum black at various temperatures was determined .
Altogether it contains about 1G0 volumes of oxygen ; the oxygen begins to come off in quantity at about 300 ' C. in vacuo , and the bulk of it can be extracted at 400 ' 0 .
, but a red heat is necessary for its complete removal .
Small quantities of carbon dioxide were also extracted , chiefly between 100\#151 ; 200 ' G. In determining the quantity of hydrogen occluded by platinum black the authors have carefully distinguished between the hydrogen which goes to form water with the oxygen always contained in platinum black , and that which is really absorbed by the platinum se .
Altogether about 310 volumes of hydrogen are absorbed per unit volume of platinum black , *but of this 200 volumes are converted into water , or only 110 volumes are really occluded by the platinum .
Part of it can be again removed at the ordinary temperature in vacuo ; by far the larger portion can be extracted at about 250\#151 ; 300 ' C. , but a red heat is necessary for its complete removal .
The amount of hydro1895 .
] Occlusion of Oxygen , $.\lt ; ? .
, tie Platinum Black .
243 gen absorbed by platinum is very largely influenced by slight traces of impurity , probably grease or other matter which forms a skin over the platinum .
Platinum black in vacuo absorbs a certain quantity of hydrogen .
On increasing the pressure of the hydrogen up to about 200\#151 ; 300 mm. a further quantity is absorbed , but after this pressure is almost without effect .
By increasing the pressure from one atmosphere up to four and a half atmospheres , only one additional volume of hydrogen was absorbed .
On placing platinum black charged with oxygen in an atmosphere of oxygen , and increasing the pressure to the same extent eight and a half additional volumes were however absorbed .
Platinum black charged with hydrogen and placed in an atmosphere of hydrogen kept approximately at atmospheric pressure , and platinum black charged with oxygen and confined in an atmosphere of oxygen , behave quite differently when heated .
In the former case hydrogen is immediately expelled on raising the temperature , whilst in the latter case oxygen is steadily absorbed until a temperature of about 360 ' 0 .
( the temperature of maximum absorption ) is reached , when on further heating oxygen begins to come off again .
Incidentally it was noticed that mercury begins to combine with oxygen at 237 ' C. , and that a mixture of platinum black and phosphorus pentoxide absorbs oxygen at a high temperature probably with the formation of a phosphate or pyrophosphate .
In the discussion of the results special reference is made to the work of Berliner and Berthelot , and it is pointed out that there is not sufficient evidence for the existence of such chemical compounds as Pt3oH3 and Pt^H^ .
Moreover , the authors are of opinion that the heats of combination of hydrogen and platinum as determined by Berthelot and Favre are valueless , and that the heat which they measured is due for the most part if not entirely to the formation of water by the oxygen always contained in platinum black .
It has yet to b e proved that the absorption of hydrogen by pure platinum black is attended by the evolution of heat , and as regards the formation of supposed true chemical compounds , solid solutions , or alloys , the authors prefer to wait until sufficient data have been accumulated for an adequate enquiry , before coming to any definite conclusion .

