1 .
Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias .
By AUG .
Wo HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received February 4 , 1858 .
Former investigations had led me to some general conclusions regarding the molecular constitution of the organic bases , which I have communicated to the Royal Society , and which have been published in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' ( 1850 , p. 93 ; 1851 , p. 357 ) .
My experiments had proved that each equivalent of hydrogen in ammonium may be replaced by an equivalent of a mono-atomic electro-positive radical , such as methyl , ethyl , &amp;c. ; -a series of compound ammoniums being produced , the salts of which may be thus formulated : N jIC1 .
1C1 .
LHJ Rfil N Cl. RtI N C1 .
LR ' LHJ R ' representing a mono-atomic electro-positive radical .
These successive substitutions were accomplished by the action of ammonia upon the bromides and iodides of the alcohol-radicals , which since that time have become most valuable agents of substitution in the hands of chemists .
All the bases produced by this process being derived from 1 equiv. of ammonium , contain 1 equiv. of nitrogen ; they differ in this respect essentially from the majority of the alkaloids extracted from plants , and more particularly so from those which , like quinine , morphine , strychnine , &amp;c. , specially claim our interest .
By far the greater number of the vegetable alkaloids contain 2 equivs. of nitrogen .
In some vegetable and animal bases we find even 3 and 4 equivs. of nitrogen .
The molecular construction of these bodies is still obscure , but it is extremely probable that they are derived from 2 , 3 or 4 ammonia equivs. , in which the hydrogen is more or less replaced by poly-atomic molecules , and that the stability of such complicated structures essentially depends upon the substituting capacity of their replacing molecules .
It was long my intention to extend my researches to the polyammonium bases .
But my attention has been specially called to the subject by the beautifill results obtained of late , especially in France , by the study of the poly-acid alcohols , by the experiments of M. Berthelot , and more particularly by the classical researches of M. Wurtz , which enable us to take a general view of this subject .
Taking as a point of departure the neutral compounds which are formed by the action of ammonia upon bibasic and tribasic acids , the diamides and triamides , derived respectively from 2 or 3 equivs. of ammonia , it became extremely probable that the action of ammonia upon poly-acid alcohols would give rise to poly-ammonium bases .
In the conception of this analogy there appeared but little doubt that ammonia , under the influence of the bromides and iodides of bi-acid alcohols , would furnish a series of bi-ammonium bases , exactly as treatment of ammonia with the analogous compounds of mono-acid alcohols has given rise to the formation of the mon-ammonium bases above referred to .
In other words , it was to be expected that a compound ether R " Br , or R ' 12 ( R't representing a bi-atomic electro-positive radical ) would act upon two equivalents of ammonia , producing a series of salts expressed by the following formulm:2 I N2 } I Br , LH2J I Rif rRn N2,1 , Br2 LHJ rR'fl N2 Rt , i &gt; Br2 .
LR"J In endeavouring experimentally to verify this idea , it became necessary to examine what had hitherto been done in this direction .
Science possesses already some very interesting observations on the ammonia derivatives of bi-acid alcohols .
About five years ago , soon after the publication of my experiments upon the action of ammonia upon bromide and iodide of ethyl , M. Cloiz* obtained a series of bases , on submitting ammonia to the action of the brominetted Dutch liquid ( C4 H4 Br2 ) .
Two of these bodies he described under the name of formylia and acetylia , whilst a third body subsequently obtained is designated by the term propyliat .
To these three bodies M. Cloez attributes the following formule : Formylia ... ..C .
1C H3 N Acetylia ... ... . .
C4 15 N Propylia ... ... . .
C6 -7 N. At a later period M. Natanson has studied the action of ammonia on the chlorinetted Dutch liquid ( C4 14 C12 ) .
This reaction produces analogous results , but the number of bases is smaller , the chief product being a chloride , which contains a base either identical or isomeric with the acetylia of M. Cloez .
When carefully considering the results obtained by M. Cloez , it appeared to me probable that the bases which he describes , are in fact the di-ammonium compounds for which I was searching .
The constitution assigned by M. Cloez to his substances is not very probable .
It is difficult to understand how the action of ammonia upon a compound like the Dutch liquid can produce simultaneously three bodies belonging to three different homologous families , the formyl- , acetyl- , and propyl-series .
Our doubts are , however , increased if we examine into the physical characters of these bodies , especially if we consider their high boiling temperatures , and the differences between the boiling-points of the three bases : Formylia ... .
C2 11 N ... ... 123 ? ?
1e Acetylia ... .
C4 I-I N ... . .
1700 Propylia ... C6 7 N ... . .
2100}difference 40 .
Methylamin , C2 H5 N , which contains only 2 equivalents of hydrogen more than formylia , is at the common temperature a gas , and liquefies only considerably below the freezing-point of water .
Agaill , the differences of the boiling-points of substances , related in the way that the formulae of M. Cloez suppose , do not often exceed 20 ?
, and very rarely rise to 40 ?
and 47 ? .
All these difficulties disappear by submitting the formulme of M. Cloez to a slight alteration , and by regarding formylia , acetylia and propylia as the di-ammonium bases of the same series , of the ethylene series .
If we adopt this view , the three bodies are derived from 2 of ammonia , in which 2 , 4 or 6 equivalents of hydrogen are replaced respectively by 1 , 2 or 3 equivalents of the bi-atomic molecule ethylene ; and the formylia , acetylia and propylia of M. Cloez present themselves as monethylene-diamine , diethylene-diamine and triethylene-diamine .
I have endeavoured experimentally to solve this question .
The analysis of acetylia , which is remarkable for the definite character of its salts , appeared to promise an answer to it .
When repeating the beautifiul experiments of M. Cloez , I had occasion to confirm all the indications given by this able chemist , regarding the formation of the bases derived from bibromide of ethylene .
The analysis , however , furnished a discrepant result .
M. Cloez represents formylia by the formula C2 HS N , when the hydrochlorate becomes C2 3 N , H C1=C2 H4N Ci .
When considered as a di-ammonium compound , this salt has the composition C4 HS N2 , 2 HC1=C4 H1O N2 C12=2C2 H1 N C1 .
The two formulae only differ by one equivalent of hydrogen .
The analysis of a magnificently crystallized hydrochlorate has furnished me the following results : Formula of M. Cloz-New formulaMean of C2 14 N C1 .
C4 Ho N2 C12 .
analysis .
Carbon ... .
18-32 ... ... 1804 ... ... 17'87 Hydrogen. .
6'10 ... ... 7'51 ... ... 7-55 Chlorine. .
54'19 ... ... 53.38 ... ... 53-17 On preparing the free base by the action of hydrate of potassa upon the hydrochlorate , I was surprised to find that this body retains hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion in which they exist in water , which cannot be separated by prolonged contact with , or by repeated distillation over , anhydrous baryta .
The analysis of the free base has given the following result : Formula of M. CloeSzNew formulaC2 H4NO .
C4 Hio N2 02 .
Carbon ... . .
31-58 ... ... 30'76 1-ydrogen. .
1052 ... ... 1282 Nitrogen. .
36-84 ... ... 35-90 Analysis .
Mean ... ... .
30-67 ... ... 12 97 ... ... 36-32 These numbers appear to me in favour of the formula which I propose for formylia ; there remains but little doubt that acetylia and propylia are analogously constituted .
There remains yet to find the last term of the series , the tetrethylene-diammonium compound .
Up to the present moment I have only established by experiment that the three lower bases are powerfully attacked by bibromide of ethylene , a non-volatile compound being produced possessing properties in every respect analogous to the character of tetramethyland tetrethylammonium .
If further experiments confirm the hypothesis which I have advanced , the action of ammonia on bi-bromide of ethylene would give rise to four compounds analogous to the bases which I have obtained by the action of bromide of ethyl .
Bromide f 411H of ethylN H ammoH nium .
HJ Bromide ( C4 H11 of diethylN &lt; C4 1-15 ammoH I nium .
HS J Bromide of rC4 HT triethylN C4N Hi ammoC H , nium .
_ H5 J Bromide of rC4 115 tetrethylN C4 H , amymo4 CI 1 nium .
H IIJ Br .
Bibromide of ethylene-diammonium .
Bibromide of di-Br .
ethylene-diammonium .
Bibromide of Br .
triethylene-diammonium .
Bibromide of &gt; Br .
tetrethylene-diammonium .
The conception of diammonium-compounds ( C H , ) " Nl I2 Br 2 12 , ^ Brl , .
( C4 114 ) 9fB N ( C4114 ) " 2L -I3 ) ( C4 H4 ) " N2 ( C4 4 ) , ,fB N , I ( C4 H4 ) Br.2 L(cfHl)"J hasC4 4)suggested to me has suggested to me the idea to extend my observations also to the triacid-alcohols , and to submit ammonia to the action of the bodies C2 H Br3 .
C4H Br3 .
C 1H5 Br3 .
Analogy suggested the formation in this reaction of a series of triammonium-bases , the salt of which might be thus formulated:(I3 B , , ' r R " ' NT3 1 &gt; Br,3 I3 LH3 jI Rfftf I Nt3 ^ , f &gt; Br , .
af Rf I have not yet succeeded in realizing these compounds by treating under several conditions ammonia by the above chlorides and bromides of triacid-alcohols .
The processes which I have as yet tried have led to other transformations .
A different result is , however , obtained by replacing the ammonia in these processes by amidogenbases .
In this reaction , and especially with aniline and chloroform , a series of beautifully crystallized alkaloids is formed , the study of which engages at present my attention .
In conclusion , I may remark that several of the known basic compounds appear to belong to the triammonium-type .
The cyanethine of Kolbe and Frankland may be viewed as such a compoundCls 115 N3= ( C6 H1 ) " N:3 .
( C6 Hi)5 t This substance appears to me to be derived from 3 equivs. of ammonia , in which 3 equivs. of hydrogen are replaced by 3 equivs. of the tri-atomic radical which chemists assume in glycerin-alcohol .

