168 Messrs. Aston and Watson .
On [ Dec. 7 , case of chlorine and bromine at one pair of corresponding temperatures only , and although this does not prove that a similar rule holds at the critical temperatures , the probability is that the extension of the investigation will show this to be the case .
On the Relation between Current , Voltage , Pressure , and the Length of the Dark Space in Different Gases .
By F. W. Aston , B.Sc. , Trinity College , Cambridge , and H. E. Watson , B.Sc. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 7 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read January 25 , 1912 .
) In a previous communication by one of us* the results of a number of experiments on the relation between current , voltage , pressure , and the length of the dark space were given for the gases hydrogen , nitrogen , oxygen , and air .
The first part of the present paper consists of a continuation of that communication giving the results obtained with carbon monoxide , argon , and helium , together with some constants for these and the gases previously mentioned which were not published at the time .
The second part deals with a systematic investigation of the behaviour of the inactive gases when in a state of great purity .
Part I.\#151 ; For detailed description of the apparatus and method employed the reader is referred to the above-mentioned paper .
It will be sufficient to state here that the discharge took place between aluminium discs , 10 cm .
in diameter and about 17 cm .
apart , the cathode being of the guard-ring type to ensure accurate measurements of the current density .
The case of carbon monoxide is particularly interesting as it is the only compound gas yet experimented on which allows the passage of a continuous current without very serious decomposition .
In its behaviour it resembles exactly the active elementary gases .
Its dark space is sharp and well defined , but if the current density is increased beyond a certain limit ( about half the maximum used for the other gases ) , the discharge strikes back behind the cathode , and consequently the values of constants obtained are not very accurate .
The argon used was certainly impure , for it showed no signs of the primary * F. W. A. , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1907 , vol. 79 , p. 80 .
1911 .
] Dark Space in Different Gases .
dark space* exhibited by the pure specimen used in the later experiments .
The helium also probably contained sufficient impurity to make it behave more or less the same as the active gases and obey approximately the two empirical equations I ) A P B y/ C ' Table I gives the values obtained for the constants A , B , E , and F , and for the expression CPD3/ V2 ; f D , the Crookes dark space , is measured in centimetres ; P , the pressure , in hundredths of a millimetre of mercury ; C , the current density , in tenths of a milliampere per square centimetre of the cathode .
In the sixth column are given the values of the pressure Pi at which the dark space is 1 cm .
with unit current density , and in the seventh the voltage Vi between the electrodes under these conditions .
Table I. A. B. E. F x 10~2 .
CPD^IO5/ ?2 .
Pi- v , .
Hydrogen 26 -5 0-43 144 57 -3 57 -5 46 -8 266 Helium 36 0-49 255* 100 38 -8 70 -6 395 Carbon monoxide ... 10 0-42 255 41 -5 5 -75 17 5 489 Nitrogen 6-8 0-40 230 23 -6 5*75 11-3 434 Air 6-5 0-42 255 23 *0 5-70 11 -3 457 Oxygen 5-7 0-49 290 17 -6 5 -55 11 -4 444 Argon 5-4 0 34 240* 29 -4 2-37 8-2 594 * The high values given here should not be compared directly with the values of E in Table II , as they are obtained by extrapolation of a different part of the curve .
Part IT.\#151 ; The general method of conducting the experiments was the same as before , but some different measuring instruments were used .
The discharge tube was of the same type , being a large cylindrical bottle 12 cm .
in diameter , provided with a plane glass window at one side for observing the dark space .
The anode and cathode were parallel aluminium discs 9 cm .
apart , closely fitting the tube , the latter being of the guard-ring type previously described .
The area of the centre portion was 6'90 cm .
The length of the dark space was measured by a sighting arrangement similar to that used in the former experiments .
The potential fall across the tube was determined by means of a Weston voltmeter .
The pressure of the gas was measured by means of a McLeod gauge constructed with tubing 2'5 mm. in diameter in order to minimise the effects * F. W. A. , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1907 , vol. 80 , p. 45 .
t Loc .
cit. , also F. W. A. , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1911 , vol. 84 , p. 526 .
Messrs. Aston and Watson .
On the [ Dec. 7 , of capillarity .
It was usually cut off from the discharge tube by a tap to prevent access of mercury vapour , but the two vessels were always allowed to remain in communication for three or four minutes before measuring the pressure .
In making a series of experiments the gas was always admitted at the highest pressure required .
The pressure was then reduced by means of a Topler pump .
The ratio of the volume of gas removed at each stroke to that of the whole apparatus was determined , sufficient time being allowed for equilibrium to be established , and this afforded a means of checking the pressure given by the gauge .
The two values were found to be in good agreement .
The current was obtained from a battery of 500 small lead accumulators , and passed through two large water resistances in parallel .
Before taking a reading it was adjusted to a fixed value by means of a null method , the connections of which may be seen from the annexed diagram .
The current from an accumulator A passes through two resistances of 200 O and 5 fl in series .
In parallel with the latter is connected a current divider consisting of 100 20 D coils in series , and a sliding contact connecting with the terminals of any coil .
In this way the potential difference between the wires D and F could be set at 101 different voltages , rising by equal increments from 0 to about 1/ 20 volt .
The main current through the centre portion of the cathode of the discharge tube passed through a 50 XI shunt C to earth .
In making a measurement , the sliding contact of the current divider was moved to a fixed point , and the liquid resistances K adjusted until the potential difference across the shunt C exactly balanced that between D and F , the galvanometer G- being used to indicate the equilibrium point .
The apparatus was calibrated by passing known currents and simultaneously measuring the E.M.F. of the accumulator A. Since the current necessary 1911 .
] Dark Space in Different Gases .
to produce equilibrium is proportional to this E.M.F. the voltage of A was tested from day to day , although it remained very constant .
The maximum current measured was very nearly 1 milliampere , corresponding to 100 coils of the current divider between D and F , and the other fixed currents adopted corresponded to 81 coils , 64 , 49 , 36 , 25 , 16 , 9 , 4 , and sometimes 1 , these values being chosen because the square roots and inverse square roots of the current were the functions considered .
An adjustable resistance H was inserted between the guard ring of the cathode and the earth connection , for by varying this until the difference in potential between the two parts of the cathode ( indicated by a galvanometer not shown in the diagram ) was zero , the ratio of the currents through the two portions could be determined .
The extreme variation of this ratio was about 15 per cent. , and considering the small size of the centre portion of the cathode , it seems probable that the current density over its surface was uniform within the limits of experimental error .
Before starting the experiments the discharge tube was repeatedly filled with oxygen at low pressure and a current passed , the tube being evacuated with charcoal in liquid air , as soon as the yellow colour of the oxygen turned grey from contamination by carbon compounds .
After 10 days the rate of production of the latter gases became very slow , and experiments were then started with the inactive gases .
After a few preliminary difficulties had been overcome , it was seen that these gases were very similar to one another in their manner of conducting the discharge , but at the same time they differed considerably from the active gases , in that the two equations given on p. 169 did not hold with any degree of accuracy .
The first of them , connecting the length of the dark space with the current density , was true for high current densities , but the second , connecting voltage and current density , seemed to be in no way applicable .
If , however , P be eliminated from the equations , the result is V \#151 ; G = KD^/ C where G = E \#151 ; BF/ A and K = F/ A , and this relation was found to agree remarkably well with the experimental results .
One noticeable feature is common to the gases of the helium group , this being that they all exhibit the primary dark space close to the cathode discovered by one of us in helium and hydrogen.* In argon and krypton it is not very obvious , but in the other three gases it is exceedingly striking , especially at low current densities .
The conditions of experiment were , unfortunately , not suitable for accurate measurements of the very small length d of this dark space , but from some rough results obtained , the values of the expression die / D , which appeared to be fairly constant , * F. W. A. , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1907 , vol. 80 , p. 45 .
Messrs. Aston and Watson .
On [ Dec. 7 , were found to be approximately 10 volts for neon , 12 for argon , 15 for krypton , and 20 for xenon , the figures previously obtained for hydrogen and helium being 10 and 20 respectively .
Neon was the first gas investigated .
It had been prepared originally by fractionation from a mixture with helium , and was repurified by means of charcoal in liquid air before use .
Two samples were examined , one of which probably contained a little helium , but no difference could be detected between them .
The boundary of the dark space was not as sharp as in oxygen , especially at low current densities , and its position was rather difficult to determine owing to the large amount of light in the dark space itself .
The colour of the latter was rather redder than that of the negative glow , which was orange , but there was no obvious spectroscopic difference .
The first experiments made appeared to indicate that the above-mentioned equations held good in the case of neon as well as for the active gases , but after about 20 series of readings at various pressures it was found that the relation between Y and ^/ Gat constant pressure tended to deviate from the linear type and become hyperbolic , the curve rising fairly steeply at first , OVc OZ 0-4 0-6 0-8 10 I-Z Fig. 2.\#151 ; Neon\#151 ; Relation between Current and Voltage .
1911 .
] Dark Space in Different Gases .
and then turning over and becoming nearly horizontal .
After continuing the experiments for some time , fresh gas being used for each series , the bend in the curve became much sharper , but finally a constant state was reached .
Some of these curves are shown in fig. 2 .
The lowest one and the fourth from the top were obtained with one sample of gas and the rest with the same after undergoing another fractionation to remove possible traces of helium .
Several weeks elapsed between the two series of experiments , and other gases were introduced into the discharge tube in the interval .
It will be observed that there is a slight tendency for the curves to bend upwards at high current densities , especially at low pressure .
This appears to be a real effect , but at the same time it is very difficult to keep the current constant under these conditions , and the rise in voltage may be exaggerated .
With regard to the shape of the curves at low current densities it is possible that the limiting voltage for zero current is the same for all pressures , but the curves hardly bear extrapolation to one point , and at low pressures the truth cannot be ascertained by means of the apparatus used , because if the current is reduced below a certain limit , the discharge suddenly ceases to pass .
At high pressures , however , the curves tend to become horizontal with small currents and the limiting voltage is that which persists when the current is insufficient to cover the cathode .
For the sake of uniformity , all measurements were made as the currents were increased .
If the reverse procedure was followed , the voltages obtained were a few volts lower .
This is probably due to a combination of effects , such as the presence of mercury vapour , and tiring of the electrodes , which cannot be investigated conveniently in a tube of large dimensions .
It seems likely , however , that the real voltages at high current densities are slightly higher than those given .
This applies also to the other gases .
With regard to the relation between dark space and current density , the equation D = A/ P + B/ ^/ C appeared to hold for high current densities , but at low ones D was much smaller than the calculated value .
Moreover in the measurements with diatomic gases , B was found to be very constant , while in the case of neon it varied more than in any other gas , being 0*41 at high pressures and 0'81 at low ones .
Fig. 3 shows some typical curves obtained , and corresponding to those in fig. 2 .
Krypton was the next gas investigated .
Before its introduction the discharge tube was evacuated as completely as possible and rinsed first with oxygen and then with the gas itself .
The colour of the discharge was greenish , there being a considerable amount of light in the dark space .
The gas first used contained sufficient 174 Messrs. Aston and Watson .
On the [ Dec. 7 , argon to be visible spectroscopically , but the results were not appreciably affected when this gas was sparked with oxygen which was then removed with phosphorus , the residue condensed in liquid air , and a small heavy fraction which appeared to be very pure krypton taken .
When using krypton an unexpected difficulty was encountered .
The anode , which was a plane disc parallel to the cathode , had been used Fig. 3.\#151 ; Neon\#151 ; Relation between Dark Space and Current Density .
previously for other experiments , and had three small holes pierced in it near the edge .
When the gas was at a fairly high pressure , a small secondary discharge frequently passed through one or more of these holes , and often assumed beautiful shapes and colours .
Its behaviour appeared to be quite erratic , and , as the difference of potential across the tube only fell by 5 volts when it was passing , it was considered more advisable to allow for its presence than to cut down and rebuild the wThole discharge tube .
Another restriction when using krypton was the fact that if the current density exceeded about 0T0 milliampere , the discharge passed from the back of the cathode as well as from the front , as in the case of carbon monoxide .
This change in the nature of the discharge appeared to be independent of the pressure .
The edge of the dark space was difficult to locate owing to small contrast , but the curves connecting the length of the dark space and the reciprocal of the square root of the current density were very similar to those for neon , that is to say , straight lines at high current densities .
These lines were , however , very nearly parallel , therein differing from the neon lines .
The Y^/ C curves were also of the same type as those in fig. 2 , but the bend was even more sudden .
In fact , each curve could be well represented 1911 .
] Dark Space in Different Gases .
by two straight lines .
The bend occurred at approximately the same current density as that in neon .
The case of xenon was similar .
The gas was frozen in liquid air , and foreign gases removed by pumping , until a high vacuum was obtained .
The residue appeared to be very pure xenon .
The apparatus was thoroughly rinsed before the experiments were started .
The appearance of the discharge was very beautiful .
Starting from the cathode , there was first a very dark and well-marked primary dark space , Current 81 6\#177 ; 49 36 Dark 05 space ro Pig .
4 .
The above diagram shows the relation between the length of the dark space and the voltage in the case of krypton .
The concurrent straight lines are drawn in such a way that the crosses representing the experimental results obtained would lie upon them if the relation V \#151 ; G = KD^/ C were rigidly true , each line being the locus of points for which the current is constant .
Before drawing them , the position of the point at which they meet was determined by extrapolation .
The lines crossing this pencil are the loci of points for which the pressures are equal , the actual pressures drawn being , starting from the bottom , 17'6 , 14-2 , 11*6 , 9*2 , 7*5 , 6*3 , and 5*2 , hundredths of a millimetre , and then a bright olive green glow , becoming deeper green with increased distance from the cathode .
This constituted the Crookes dark space .
The negative glow was bluish-white , merging into orange , and the boundary of the dark space , though fairly sharp , was very difficult to measure owing to lack of contrast .
Messrs. Aston and Watson .
On the [ Dec. 7 , The same phenomenon of discharge through the anode as in krypton was noted , and the current density at which the discharge started from the back of the cathode was rather less than half that in the former case , so that high current densities could not be investigated .
The forms of the curves connecting the length of the dark space , the current density , and the voltage were very similar to those in the case of krypton , but the bend in the Y , \lt ; yG , curves was not so marked .
The results given by argon were similar to those from neon .
Owing to the presence of mercury vapour which could not be removed entirely by freezing a side tube connected with the apparatus in liquid air , the spectrum of the negative glow showed only mercury lines except at the boundary of the dark space where the glow was white , and argon lines showed as well .
The dark space itself was red , and showed the argon spectrum with a few very faint mercury lines .
At lower pressures the dark space became bluer , and argon lines appeared in the negative glow .
The curves connecting the length of the dark space with the current density were of the usual type , but the Y , ^/ C , ones were much straighter than in the case of neon .
There was , however , a slight bend at the same current density as in the other gases , and the curves were similar to those yielded by neon in the early experiments .
It is very probable that this was due to a slight trace of oxygen , for although the argon was treated with phosphorus and subsequently distilled , it is quite likely that all the oxygen was not removed .
The phenomena occurring in helium were very complicated and difficult to investigate , as there appeared to be two forms of discharge .
The changes were most marked when observations of the current and voltage were made at constant pressure .
Usually on taking readings after a change in pressure , values were obtained such that the relation between Y and C was approximately linear .
Before the voltages for the highest current densities could be measured , however , there was almost invariably a sudden drop in voltage , amounting often to 400 volts for the same current , and as more readings were taken the voltage would gradually decrease a little more , until what was apparently a minimum was reached .
Very often before this was attained the voltage rose again .
Sometimes the reverse was the case , and a series of low readings was first obtained until , without warning , the voltage would increase beyond the limits of measurement .
The following account of a particularly erratic specimen of gas at a pressure of 1*5 mm. is taken from the original notes:\#151 ; A series of readings for which the relation between V and y/ C was linear was obtained .
When the current through the tube was 0'81 milliampere the voltage was 368 .
This dropped to 185 , and then rose at once to 392 .
1911 .
] Dark Space in Different Gases .
The current was next increased to 1 milliampere .
The voltage dropped to 200 , and in about 15 seconds rose to 450 , after which it fell slowly to 425 , and then again fell to 200 .
This occurred several times .
When at the low voltage , the current was cut off and restarted with the intensity of 0-36 milliampere only .
The initial voltage was 240 , which rose to 284 .
A side tube connected to the discharge tube was next immersed in liquid air , and a heavy current run .
On reducing to the previous value of 0-36 milliampere the voltage was found to be 170 , which rose shortly to 255 .
At 0-81 milliampere the voltage dropped from 350 to 200 twice .
The actual voltage changes in this example were not very great , but at low pressures they increased largely .
At the same time it was increasingly difficult on lowering the pressure to obtain the low values for the voltage .
The cause of these two kinds of discharge is difficult to determine .
It seems probable , however , that what may be termed the low voltage discharge is the normal one corresponding to the discharge in the other monatomic gases , while the high voltage discharge is abnormal , and its occurrence favoured by the presence of an impurity , which is probably carbon dioxide .
It would appear , moreover , that this impurity acts catalytically , firstly because the current-voltage curves obtained were quite regular and definite at different pressures , although the amount of impurity cannot have been constant , and , secondly , because , as already mentioned , the discharge rapidly altered from one type to the other , whereas it can hardly be imagined that at constant current the gas should first become more pure and then grow impure again .
There is at present no actual proof that the high voltage discharge is caused by impurity at all , but it was usually possible to obtain the low voltage discharge by cooling a portion of the apparatus for some time in liquid air , while cooling in solid carbon dioxide had no effect .
On removing the liquid air the voltage would usually rise , but these simple effects were largely masked by the production and possible absorption of impurity when the current was running .
There was also the effect of mercury vapour to be guarded against .
Unfortunately the apparatus had not been constructed so as to remove this gas completely , and it appeared that there was a small rise in the voltage when much mercury vapour was present , but the main phenomenon of changing voltage was apparently not due to its presence , for its spectral lines appeared relatively as strongly in both forms of To the eye there was a distinct difference between the two types .
The low voltage one was characterised by the edge of the dark space being very blurry and almost invisible at low current densities owing to lack of contrast .
discharge .
VOL. lxxxvi.\#151 ; A. N 178 Messrs. Aston and Watson .
the [ Dec. 7 , The dark space itself was a deep emerald green , and the negative glow a slightly paler green , except at high current densities , when it became whitish .
With the high voltage discharge the negative glow was almost white ( possibly owing to the greater transference of energy ) , and the boundary very sharp .
There was no obvious spectroscopic difference between the two forms .
As far as it was possible to judge , the curves connecting length of dark space , current , and voltage were similar in type to those of the other gases .
The Y , y/ C , curves were , however , when not quite irregular , fairly straight , and , moreover , all of them extrapolated very closely to the same point for zero current .
Upon the completion of these experiments , a series was performed with oxygen for comparison with results previously obtained , and the agreement was found to be good .
It will thus be seen that , apart from small individual peculiarities , the behaviour of each of the five inactive gases is very much of the same nature , provided the experiments are conducted at constant pressure .
Thus , the 1/ ^/ C , D , curves are almost identical , and the V , ^/ C , curves very similar to each other .
The only marked difference in making the experiments is that the range of pressures over which they can be carried out in order to obtain similar values for the length of the dark space and the voltage is widely different , varying regularly from 1'5 \#151 ; 02 mm. in the case of helium to 03\#151 ; 006 mm. in the case of xenon .
Owing to these facts , little information is to be gained from a cursory inspection of the characteristic curves for each gas , and consequently one curve only of each type has been reproduced .
Some idea of the relative behaviour of the gases may , however , be obtained by examining the approximate values for the constants in the equations D=| + -^ , V = E + ^ , V-G = KDV'C , which may be deduced from these curves .
Of the above equations , the first holds good only at high current densities , and A is by no means constant .
In the second equation E can be found , since the Y , \/ G , curves extrapolate approximately to one point where C = 0 , but F is meaningless .
The third equation , however , is much more accurate , and fairly close values can be obtained both for G and K. Table II gives the values of these quantities .
The seventh and eighth columns show the pressure and voltage for unit dark space and unit current density , the units being those given on p. 169 .
1911 .
] Dark Space Di fferent Gases .
Table II .
A. B. E. a. K. Pi .
Vi .
PxlOVVi2 .
PjlC^/ Vi2 x at .
wt. Helium ... 38 PO-27 137 25 380 52 '5 412 31 124 f eon | 5 -0\#151 ; 8 -0 0 *41\#151 ; 0 -82 170\#151 ; 220 90 445 18*6 545 6*25 125 !
rornn l 4 0 0 -32\#151 ; 0 -41 190 60 530 8'3 610 2'25 89 Ll gVIA | [ rypton ... j 3 '8\#151 ; 5 -4 0 -37\#151 ; 0 -45 225\#151 ; 325 100 630 8'3 745 1 '50 125 tenon ... 4 *0\#151 ; 6 '0 0 -23\#151 ; 0 '40 245 120 890 5'9 1025 0 *60 78 )xygen ... 6 1 0'48 292 135 318 11 '5 460 5'45 82 The expression CPD3/ V2 , which has been shown by one of us to be proportional to the velocities of the positive ions , when certain assumptions are made , * is by no means constant for the inactive gases , but a rough comparison for the different gases may be made by considering its value under certain conditions .
Column 9 shows the values for unit current and unit dark space .
These appear to be approximately inversely proportional to the atomic weight , as may be seen from Column 10 , which gives the product of Pi/ Vi2 and the atomic weight .
It seems unlikely that the agreement in the case of helium , neon , and krypton is fortuitous .
It will , however , be noticed that the figures for argon and xenon differ considerably from the others .
It is possible , as mentioned before , that the argon contained a trace of oxygen , which might easily vitiate the results , whilst with xenon , the values of Pi and Vi are only obtained by a wide extrapolation , as the maximum current which could be measured was only half the unit current adopted .
Actually , the value of 0*75 for CPD3105/ V2 was obtained for the highest current densities used in a series of experiments , and the variation with current density and pressure was very slight , so that it is quite possible that the extrapolated figure is too low .
With regard to the other quantities given in the tables , it is somewhat remarkable that B has very similar values for all gases .
K and Vj increase regularly with rise in atomic weight of the gas , whilst Pi decreases , but there appears to be no simple connection between any of these quantities .
The values in the table are all determined graphically from the characteristic curves of the gas , and it will be seen that the sum of Gr and K is approximately Vi , as it should be if the third equation on p. 178 were rigidly exact .
At present , it seems useless to evolve a theoretical discussion of the general results obtained , since our knowledge of the whole mechanism of discharge is very limited , and the data so far available insufficient .
Further experiments with cathodes of different shapes are , however , in progress , and it is hoped that by this means further light may be thrown on the subject * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1907 , vol. 79 , p. 85 ; and 1911 , vol. 84 , p. 534 .
N 2 Mr. G. A. Shakespeare .
A Method of [ Nov. 21 , and an explanation found for the results just given .
In the meantime , the present paper must remain as a statement of facts .
In conclusion , we wish to express our best thanks to Sir J. J. Thomson for the great interest he has taken in this work , which was carried out in the Cavendish Laboratory , and also to Sir William Ramsay for the loan of the krypton and xenon , which alone made the research possible .
A New Method of Determining the Radiation Constant .
By G. A. Shakespeare , M.A. , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Prof. J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read January 8 , 1912 .
) According to Stefan 's law the rate of radiation of energy from a full radiator in surroundings at a temperature of absolute zero is \lt ; r04 ergs per cm.2 per sec. , where 6 is the absolute temperature of the radiator .
If the radiator be in surroundings which are themselves full radiators , but at absolute temperature 6\ , the rate of loss of energy by radiation is taken to be o-^4-# !
4 ) .
The classical determination of the constant a is due to Kurlbaum , * who used a surface bolometer with a platinum-black surface .
The rise of temperature of the bolometer when exposed to the radiation from an approximately full radiator or " black body " was observed .
The radiation was then cut off , and an equal rise of temperature was produced by increasing the main current in the bolometer .
It was assumed that the energy received per second from the radiator in the first case was equal to the energy received per second from the increase of current in the second case .
The resulting value of cr was 5*33 x 10~5 ergs per cm.2 per sec. per deg.4 , or 5'33 x 10~12 watts per cm 2 per deg.4 .
Kurlbaum gives a summary of previous measurements of cr , and there appears little doubt that his method was a great advance on those of earlier workers , and that it was carried out with such a high degree of experimental skill as to justify confidence in the result .
Later work , however , has suggested that Kurlbaum 's value is too low .
Feryj* in particular , using an entirely different method , in which he employed * ' Ann , d. Phys. , ' 1898 , vol. 65 , p. 746 .
t 'Compt .
Kend .
, ' April 5 , 1909 .

