Mr. H. Carpenter .
[ Apr. iff glucinum was determined in turpentine , of which the specific heat was found to be 0-4231 , and with the following results Mean ... ... ... 0 4316 and with a mean error of 0'8 per cent. Making a correction for the i impurities contained in the metal , its true specific heat would he \lt ; \#163 ; no53 , mThenCe if tHe at'mic W6ight is 13'65 the afcomic teat becomes | b-08 .
his must , therefore , be the true atomic weight , and not two- i thirds of this , or 9*1 .
The number found by Nilson was somewhat lower than this ( 0-4079 ) I and the above results may be slightly too high , firstly from hygroscopic ( moisture , and secondly from heat produced when the liquid was absorbed by the porous metal .
About 0-66 gramme of the metal was used for the determinations , and it was compressed to a compact disk in a steel mortar .
The author is continuing the research .
MI .
' On .
a New Crinoid from the Southern Sea .
" By P. Herbert Carpenter , M.A. , Assistant Master at Eton College .
Communicated by W. B. Carpenter , C.B. , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 15 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) Among the collections of the late Sir Wyville Thomson , a small Gomatula has recently been discovered which was dredged by the " Challenger " at a depth of 1,800 fathoms in the Southern Sea .
Although it is unusually small , the diameter of the calyx being only 2 millims. , the characters presented by this form are such as to render it by far the most remarkable among all the types of recent Crinoids , whether stalked or free .
The name proposed for it is Themmatocrinus renovatus .
It has only five arms , and in this respect resembles Eudiocrinus .
But the basals , instead of becoming transformed into a rosette as in that genus , persist on the exterior of the calyx and form a closed ring of relatively large plates , which rest upon the centrodorsal .
They support a ring of ten plates , five of which , alternating with the basals , bear the arms and are therefore the radials .
These radials .
however , do not meet one another laterally ; for they alternate with five plates slightly smaller than themselves , which rest upon the jLgj j ( )n a New Crinoid from the Southern Sea .
139 Lais and , with one exception , terminate in a free edge at the margin L the disk .
The exception is the interradial of the anal side , which , ears a short and tapering armlike appendage of five or six joints .
It *as no special relation to the anal tube , the lower part of which , like he peripheral portion of the disk , bears a pavement of anambulacral Llates But the centre of the disk is occupied by a relatively large \gt ; nd substantial oral pyramid , so that the disk in its general aspect resembles that of Hybcrmus .
j Thaumatocrinus is thus distinguished by four striking peculiy L ^ iphe presence of a closed ring of basals upon the exterior of eSthecdyx^e pergistence of the oral piates of the larva , as in Byocrinus f and Bhizocrinus .
_ ( 3 .
) The separation of the primary radials by interradials which rest l*0 ( 4 .
) The presence of an arm-like appendage on the interradial plate of the anal side .
Taking these in order\#151 ; ( 1 .
) No adult Comatula , except the recent Atelecrinus and some h little known fossils , has a closed ring of basals ; and even in \#166 ; crinus they are quite small and insignificant .
( 2 .
) In all recent Gomatulce , in the Pentacrinidce and in .
the oral plates of the larva become resorbed as maturity is ap-I proached .
In Thaumatocrinus , however , they are retained , as m i Ilyociinus , Bhizocrinus , and Holojpus , representatives of three different t ; families of Neocrinoids .
_ ( 3 .
) There is no Neocrinoid , either stalked or free , in which the t primary radials remain permanently separated as they are in r tocrinus , and for a short time after their first appearance in the larva C of ordinary Crinoids .
The only Palseocrinoids presenting this feature r are certain of the Bhodocrinidce ( as understood by Wachsmuth and ; Springer ) , e.g. , Beteocrinus , Bhodocrinus , \amp ; c. In the t two latter , and in the other genera which have been grouped together i* with them into the section Bhodocrinites ( W\ and S. ) , there is a i : single interradial intervening between every two radials , and resting \#187 ; on a basal just as in Thaumatocrinus. .
But in the Lower Silurian j Beteocrinus ( of Billings ; emend W. and S. ) the interradial areas \#166 ; contain a large number of minute pieces of irregular form and I arrangement .
( 4 .
) It is only , however , in Reteocrinus , and in the allied genns 5 Xenocrinus , Miller , which is also of Lower Silurian age , * that an anal appendage similar to that of Thaumatocrinus is to be met with .
* Reteocrinus occurs in the Trenton Limestone of Ottawa and in the Hudson River G-roup of Indiana and Ohio .
Xenocrinus has as yet been found in the latter Mr. B. T. Lo'wne .
L^Pi* .
12 Of the four distinguishing characters of therefJj not rr ln/ neftr ?
6rhapS in tw ' .
' another T p me* Wlth any Comatulathough occurring in certab stalked Crmoids ; while the two remaining characters afe limited " one family of the PaWrinoids , one of them , being peculia^ 3 or at most two genera , which are confined tn hh* o\#171 ; _J one one , or rocks .
7 '\fe Palffiocrmoids , one of them , being peculiar tr at most two genera , which are confined to the Lower Siluria^ Their reappearance in such a specialized type as a recent is , therefore , all the more striking .
IV .
" On the Structure and Functions of the Eyes of Arthro poda .
" By B. Thompson Lowne , F.R.C.S. , Lecturer on Physiology mthe Middlesex Hospital Medical School , Examiner m Physiology in the Royal College of Surgeons , formerly Arris and Gale Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Royal College of Surgeons .
Communicated by Professor I lower , F.R.S. Received March 30 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) Three distinct forms of eye exist in the Arthropoda j the Compound eye , the Simple- Ocellus , and the less known Compound Ocellus common in larval insects , first described by Dr. Landois .
The relationship of the Compound eye to the Simple Ocellus is shown to be very distant , although I believe that these two types have been evolved from a common but very rudimentary primitive type .
On the other hand , that between the Compound eye and the Compound Ocellus of a larval insect , is very close , the Compound eye being merely an aggregation of a great number of these ocelli , variously modified in the more highly differentiated Insects and Crustaceans .
A fourth form of eye exists , in which the Ocelli are less closely united ; this forms a connecting link between the compound eye and the ' compound ocellus .
It is found in the Isopods , and may be conveniently termed the Aggregate eye .
The Simple Ocellus consists essentially of a pigmented capsule , behind a convex corneal lens , containing a cellular vitreous , which is separated from the retina by a fine fibrous membrane .
The retina itself is a layer of Bacilla , comparable with those of Jacob 's membrane in the Vertebrate , except that the highly refractive outer segments of the rods are turned towards and not away from the refractive media .
The fibrous membrane , between the rods and the group only .
I cannot help suspecting that a better knowledge of this type will lead to its absorption into Reteocrinus .
\#151 ; P. H. C.

