XXV .
Account of a spontaneous In4mmation .
By Isaac Humfries , Esq. Inta Letter from Thomas B Woodman\#171 ; Esq. to George Atwood , Esq. F. Re S Read July so , s794 .
O:EAR SIPv , Etwell , June , I 79+e 1 ENCLOSE you the extract of the letter from ISAAC HUMFRIESS Esq. a gentleman resident ln India , and empIoyed in the Cotu pany 's service , which relates to the circumstance of the fire I lately mentioned to you Arld am yours , &amp;c. THOMAS 13e WOODMANo CC ON going into the arsellal a few mornings since , I found my friend Mr. GOLDING , the commissary ( sf stores , under the greatest uneasiness in consequence of an accident which had 11appened the preceding night .
A bottle of linseed oil had been left on a table , close to which a chest stood , which contained some coarse cotton cloth ; in the course of the night the bottle of oil was thrown down , and broken on the chest ( by rats most probably ) , and part of the oil ran into the chestn and on the cloth : when the chest was opened in the mornings C 426 3 the cloth was follnd in a very strong llegree of heat , and partly reduced to tinder , and the wood of the box discoloured as from burning .
After a most minute examination , no appeararlce of any ot-her inflammable sul)stance collld he found , and how the cloth could have been reduced to the conditioz in which it was found , no one could even conjecture The idea which occurred , and which made Mr. GOLDING SO uneasy , was that of an attempt to burn the arsenal .
Thus matters were when I joined him , and when he told me the story and showed me the remainder of the cloth .
It luckily happened that in some chemical amusen:lents , I had occasion to consult ISoPsoN9s boot a very few days before , and met with this particular passage , which I read with a determination to pursue the experiment at some future period , but had neglected to do so .
Tlle moment I saw the cloth , the similarity of circtllrlstances struck me so forcibly , that I sent for the book an(l show ( l it to Mre GOLDING , who agreed with me that it appeared sufficient to account for the accident .
Howerrer , to convince ourselves , we took a piece of the same killed of cloth , wetted it with linseed oiln and put it into a box , which was locked and carried to his quarters .
In about three hours the box began to smoke , when on opening it , the cloth was found exactly in the same condition as that which had given us so much uneasiness in the morning , and on opening the cloth , and admitting the external air , it burst into fire .
This was sufficiently convincing , however , to make it more certain , the experiment was three times tried , and with the sarrle success .
" P. S. The passage Mr. HUMFRIES alludes to is in page 629 of HOPSON}S Chemistry , where , in a note , you will find mention made of a set of chemical experiments made on inflammable substances by a Mr. GIORGI of the Imperial Academy of Petersburgh , in consequence of the burning of a Russian frigate at Crorlstadt in 1781 , although no fire had been made on board of her for five days beforeR

