A few Facts relative to the Colouring Matters of some Vegetables .
By James Smithson , iEsq .
F.R.S. Read December 18 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 110 .
] The author offers the scattered facts contained in this paper to the notice of the Society , in the hlope that they may induce some otlier person to extend the experiments , interesting not merely in chemistry but also in the art of dyeing .
The author observes that Fourcroy 's opinion , -that turnsole is red originally , and made blue by carbonate of soda , -is erroneous , for its tinctures contain no alkali of any kind ; he found in it a small portion of carbonate of lime .
The insoluble part of turnsole is rendered red by acids , but not affected by carbonate of soda ; when burned , a portion of smalt remains .
The soluble part was obtained by evaporating its aqueous solution .
When burned it leaves a little potash , which the author thinks essential to its composition , and that , like ulmin , it may be a compound of a vegetable principle with potash .
The next colouring principle noticed by the author is that of the violet , it is reddened by acids , and becomes first green and then yellow by the alkalies and the carbonates .
A similar principle exists in the petals of the red rose , of red clover , of the tips of the daisy , in the blue hyacinth , hollyhock and lavender , in the inner leaves of the artichoke , in the skin of plums , and in several other vegetable substances , also in the red cabbage .
To this principle the author applies the name of Ajax , whose blood is fabled to have dyed the violet .
In sugar-loaf paper the author found two colouring matters : one red , and soluble in water ; the other blue , and requiring an acid for its extraction .
The juice of the black mulberry is rendered green by caustic potash , blue by carbonate of soda , and vinous red by carbonate of ammonia .
When mixed with chalk it rendered that substance blue , and the filtered liquor was red , and could not be made blue by further addition of the chalk .
Heat did not affect the red colour of this liquid .
If the red and the blue matter contained in the mulberry be considered as distinct principles , the author proposes to call the former Pyramus , the latter Thisbe .
The colouring matter of the corn-poppy is scarcely altered by carbonate of soda .
Caustic potash makes it green , and caustic ammonia produces no effect .
Muriatic acid renders the infusion of the poppy petals florid red , which is rendered dark red by carbonate of lime .
These and other experiments induce Mr. Smithson to regard the colour of the corn-poppy as analogous to the red principle of the mulberry .
The pigment called sap green is the inspissated juice of the buckthorn berries .
It is rendered yellow by carbonate of soda and caustic potash .
Its solution is reddened by acids , and the green is restored by chalk .
To this substance , and to the common green matter of vegetables , the author assigns the name Chloris .
The colour of some green insects is not altered either by muriatic acid or carbonate of soda , and therefore appears to be a peculiar principle differing from that of vegetables .

