2 .
" Experimental Researches on Vegetation .
" By M. Georges Ville .
Communicated by The Earl of Rosse , P.R.S. Received May 26 .
After stating that it has often been asked if air , and especially azote , contributes to the nutrition of plants ; and , as regards the latter , that this question has always been answered negatively , the author remarks it is however known that plants do not draw all their azote from the soil , the crops produced every year in manured land giving a greater proportion of azote than is contained in the soil itself .
The question which he has proposed to himself for solution is , whence then comes the excess of azote which the crops contain , and in a more general manner , the azote of plants , which the soil has not furnished ?
He divides his inquiry into the three following parts : First .
Inquiry into and determination of the proportion of the ammonia contained in the air of the atmosphere .
Second .
Is the azote of the air absorbed by plants ?
Third .
Influence on vegetation of ammonia added to the air .
1 .
The author remarks that since the observation of M. Th6odore de Saussure , that the air is mixed with ammoniacal vapours , three attempts have been made to , determine the proportion of ammonia in the air : a million of kilogrammes of the air , according to M. Grayer , contain 0'333 kil .
A2H3 ; according to Mr. Kemp 3-880 kil .
; according to M. Fresenius , of the air of the day , 0'098 kil .
, and of night air , 0'169 kil .
He states that he has shown the cause of these discrepancies , and proved that the quantity of ammonia contained in the air is 22'417 grms. for a million of kilogrammes of the air ; and that the quantity oscillates between 17'14 grms. and 29-43 grms. 2 .
The author states that though the azote of the air is absorbed by plants , the ammonia of the air contributes nothing to : this absorption .
Not that ammonia is not an auxiliary of vegetation , but the air contains scarcely 0'0000000224 , and in this proportion its effects are inappreciable .
These conclusions are founded upon a great number of experiments in which the plants lived at the expense of the air without deriving any thing from the soil .
For the present he confines himself to laying down these two conclusions:-11 The azote of the air is absorbed by plants , by the cereals , as by all others .
2 .
The ammonia of the atmosphere performs no appreciable part in the life of plants , when vegetation takes place in a limited atmosphere .
After describing the apparatus by means of which he carried on his experiments on the vegetation of plants placed in a soil-deprived of organic matter , and the manner in which the experiments were conducted , he adduces the results of these experiments in proof of the above conclusions .
3 .
With reference to the influence of ammonia on vegetation , the author states that , if ammonia be added to the air , vegetation becomes remarkably active .
In the proportion of 4 ten-thousandths the influence of this gas shows itself at the end of eight or ten days , and from this time it manifests itself with a continually increasing intensity .
The leaves , which at first were of a pale-green , assume a deeper and deeper tint , and for a time become almost black ; their petals are long and upright , and their surface wide and shining .
In short , when vegetation has arrived at its proper period the crop is found far beyond that of the same plants grown in pure air ; and , weight for weight , they contain twice as much azote .
Besides these general effects there are others which are more variable , which depend upon particular conditions , but which are equally worthy of interest .
In fact , by means of ammonia we can not only stimulate vegetation , but , further , we can modify its course , delay the action of certain functions , or enlarge the development and the modification of certain organs .
The author further remarks , that if its use be ill-directed , it may cause accidents .
Those which have occurred in the course of his experiments appear to him to throw an unexpected light upon the mechanism of the nutrition of plants .
They have at least taught him at the expense of what care ammonia may become an auxiliary of vegetation .
These experiments , which were made under the same conditions as those upon the absorption of azote , are then described , and their numerical results given .
To the conclusions already stated , the author adds that there are periods to be selected for the employment of ammonia , during which this gas produces different effects .
If we commence its use when several months intervene before the flowering season of the plants , it produces no disturbance ; they follow the ordinary course of their vegetation .
If its use be commenced at the time of ' flowering , this function is stopped or delayed .
The plant covers itself with leaves , and if the flowering takes place all the flowers are barren .

