1877 .
] On the Meteorology of the Bombay Presidency .
539 especially in those for the direction of the wind at a single hour , the agreement of the final result with Dr. Buys- Ballot s mean ( obtained probably in the same way ) , and that found here by a wholly different method , is very satisfactory .
One of the most interesting parts of Mr. Clement Ley 's paper is the confirmation given , by so zealous and accurate an observer , of the results relating to the different directions of the aerial currents discovered by me upwards of thirty years ago .
The author remarks , \#151 ; " From many thousands of observations made at well-exposed situations in the Midland Counties of England , I have found that in about seven cases out of eight , with a light air or moderate wind , if the observer exactly face the wind on the earth 's surface , he finds the current in clouds of no great altitude overhead to be a little from his right .
This difference , it may be remarked , is commonly greatest and most uniformly noticed in dull or rainy weather with S.W. or S.E. winds " * .
That is to say , xp\#151 ; ( j)is positive , and most so in the south quadrants .
These results are in exact conformity with those obtained from the Makerstoun observationsf .
Mr. Clement Ley also finds the difference of direction between the isobars and wind to be greatest in the south quadrants ( a result which I had proposed to examine specially , p. 538 ) ; but he does not seem to have remarked the important fact of the coincidence in the increase oi d-\#171 ; t\gt ; and ^\#151 ; \lt ; p. I recommend Mr. Clement Ley 's instructive paper to the attention of meteorologists .
II .
" The Meteorology of the Bombay Presidency .
By Charles Chambers , F.'B.S .
, Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Beceived January 2 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) This work consists of four parts\#151 ; the first dealing with registrations of meteorological phenomena at the Colaba Observatory during a period of twenty-seven years ; the second with moderately full observations at five military stations in the Bombay Presidency during a period of nineteen years ; and the third with large numbers of observations from civil hospitals and revenue stations , being those of selected registers extending over various periods from not less than a fortnight up to a number of years : in this part the phenomena treated are temperature of the ah , winds , and rainfall only ; and the extent of territory to which the observations refer includes the whole of the Presidency , bind , and the western * Journal of the Scottish Meteorological Society , July 1873 , p. 70 .
t " Results of Makerstoun Observations , " Trans. Roy .
Soc. Rdinb .
1843 to 1840 , pp. ciii , civ .
540 Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the [ Feb. 8 , half of Rajputana .
In the fourth part are discussed the general distribution ( as regards both space and season ) of temperature and rainfall , and the variations of the wind ; first with respect simply to the physical geography of the country , and then in combination with certain theoretical views , the elucidation of which , by means of the dynamical theory of heat and the kinetic theory of gases , occupies much space .
Nearly half the memoir is devoted to the work of the Col aba Observatory , of the history of which a short sketch is given .
The design of this part is to give a compendious account of the results of a long and continuous maintenance of the Observatory , both in the shape of numerical determinations of meteorological elements and of their periodical and other variations , and in throwing light by means of these upon the physical conditions and actions which give rise to the observed relations between different phenomena , and to the variation of these relations with time .
In the course of the work the author introduces several new modes of picturing clearly to the mind , and of representing graphically , the general results of the various phenomena observed : he also develops a theory of aerial circulation , including a dynamical theory of convection-currents , which is original , and , so far as he knows , put forth now for the first time .
February 8 , 1877 .
Dr. GUY , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Hindoo Division of the Octave , with some additions to the Theory of the Higher Orders .
" By R. H. M. Bosanquet , Fellow of St. John 's College , Oxford .
Communicated by Prof. Henry J. S. Smith , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
Received January 5 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) Attention has been recently directed to the remarkable division of the octave into 22 intervals , employed by the Hindoos .
The paper commences with a slight account of the Hindoo scales as thus derived .
It is

