]\gt ; Air Resistance to ectiles at High Vdocities .
267 \amp ; The majority of the chromium enhanced lines oocur in the spectrum , though some appear to be missing .
: : 4 .
Some of the Fraunhoferic lines correspond to metallic lines special $ the spark spectrum , and lacking in the arc , and probably for this they were left.unorigined by Rowland .
' Air Resistance Encountered by Projectiles at Velocities up to 4500 Feet per Second By A. MALLOCK , F.R.S. Received November , \mdash ; Read November 17 , 1904 .
The work done by Prof. Bashforth on the subject of air resistance is so well that I need hardly refer to it except to say that his results have , with minor alterations , been confirmed by subsequent experimenters .
The greater part of Professor Bnshforth 's work related to velocities lmder 2500 feet per second , and the object of the present xperiments was to examine the -efficient of air resistance at higher speeds .
In the years 1895-97 , Iajor the Hon. T. F. Fremantle and Colonel H. Mellish made a series of experiments on the remaining velocities of the service .
bullet by shooting into a ballistic pendulum from ranges varying from 12 up to 1000 yards .
These experiments were made with great care , each bullet and charge being separately weighed , and from the results which they communicated to me I computed the co-efficient of resistance for velocities ranging from 2100 f.s. to 900 .
I suggested then that with light bullets we tiould probably extend the ballistic tables very considerably , using the to measure the velocity , and shortly after this we made mome trials with various aluminium bullets .
We found , however , that with corditc of the size used for the service charge of the rifle a great part of the explosive was blown out unburnt when the light bullets were used .
It was evident , therefore , that in order to get the velocities we required , a much finer cordite than the No. 3 of the service charge would have to be used .
We found also that a ttble ( leposit of aluminium left in the barrel after firing .
From various causes I have not been able to proceed with the Xperiments until the esent year , when having obtained some cordite of diameter inch , I again tried aluminium bullets , but the metallic fouling proved fatal to accurate and consistent results .
I then tried shooting with lignum vitae plugs which did very well up to velocities of about 2500 f.s. , but at this velocity , sometimes , and generally at higher velocities , the plugs broke up under the action of centrifugal .
I again , therefore , reverted to aluminium , but on the bullets made two small cannelures , fig. 1 , which were filled with a composi .
LXX1V .
Projectites Velocities up to 4500 Feet per Sjcond .
269 hen it is considered that the latter were with projectiles hing many pounds , and the others with shot of 23 and 215 grains ctively , the close agreement of the is ) FIe .
2 .
atisfactory , and shows in a iking way what can be done with experiments when proper of dyIlamic s. is mployed .
The extended resistance curve eseuts no peculiarities , althongh it only be expressed at present by an formula .
But that his should be so is in itself rather remarkable , for it might well have 1:46Sn ; expected that the resistance would , for high velocities at least , oportional to the pressure requisite to cause a gas to discharge hrough a hole in a -walled vessel at the speed of the shot .
S .
Of The pressure in question is , where is tht velocity of sound , but the curve represented by this function and curve of actual resistance do not even tend to approximate .

