, Some Observations relating to the Function of Digestion .
By A. P. W. Philip , M.D. F.R.S. L. 8B E. Read January 16 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 137 .
] The author , referring to his former papers published in the Philosophical Transactions , concludes that digestion requires for its due performance , both a proper supply of gastric secretion , and a certain muscular action in the stomach ; the latter circumstance being required for the expulsion of that portion of food which has been acted.upon by the gastric juice .
Nervous power is necessary for secretion ; but the muscular action of the stomach being excited by the mechanical stimulus of the contents of that organ , is independent of the nervous power .
It has already been shown by the author , that after the removal of a portion of the eighth pair of nerves , the galvanic influence directed through these nerves will restore the secretion of gastric juice ; but Messrs. Breschet and Milne Edwards have lately endeavoured to prove , that the same effect results also from.mechanical irritation of the lower portions of the divided nerves .
The author points out several circumstances which appear to have been overlooked by these gentlemen , and which , he thinks , invalidate the conclusions they have deduced from their experiments .
He states that a certain quantity of digested food will always be found in the stomach of the animal for five or six hours after the operation , and even after the lapse of ten or twelve hours , from its being less completely changed , and therefore expelled more slowly than in the natural state .
The paper concludes with the recital of experiments made for the author by Mr. Cutler , in which the contents of the.stomach of a rabbit , whose eighth pair of nerves , after excision , had been kept mechanically irritated , were compared with those of another rabbit , in which the nerves had not been irritated , and of a third , which had been left undisturbed .
All those who witnessed the result of this experiment , among whom was Mr. Brodie , were convinced that the irritation of the nerves had no effect whatever in promoting the digestion of the food ; neither did it at all contribute to relieve the difficulty of breathing , consequent upon the section of the nerves .

