323 1877 .
] Photographic Image of Stratified Discharges .
- , iv phenomena of the gastrocnemius muscle , as based on the researches [ have just referred to , will find it succinctly given in an admirable little work just published by Prof. Rosenthal , in the " International Scientific Series " ( 'AllgemeinePhysiologiederMuskel und Nerven ' ) , pp. 195-197 .
Ee will thereby be able to satisfy himself that that explanation covers many of the facts to which I directed attention in my " Note .
" I am , my dear Sir , Tours faithfully , J. B. SAKDEBSON .
Prof. Huxley , Sec. H.S. VII .
" Photographic Image of Stratified Discharges .
" A Letter to Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. , by W. Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received June 2 , 1877 .
41 Grosvenor Place , June 2 , 1877 .
My Deab Stokes , \#151 ; I am sure that you will be interested to hear that Capt. Abney yesterday succeeded in photographing some of the phenomena which I had observed last year , with a revolving mirror , and which are described in my paper " On Stratified Discharges , III .
" ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xxv .
p. 73 ) .
The success of the operation was due mainly to his skill , but partly also to the great brilliancy and long duration of the discharges from my large induction-coil , described in the ' Phil. Mag. ' for Pebruary last .
The tube used on this occasion was a small hydrogen-tube of conical form , the effect of which , as seen in a revolving mirror , is represented in fig. 3 of the paper above quoted .
The photographic image was obtained , not by the use of a mirror , but by moving the sensitive plate across the field of view during the continuance of the discharge .
In this the first result , the position of the striae , their proper motion , their grouping in pairs of different actinic power , and consequently of colour ( a phenomenon well known in hydrogen tubes ) , are distinctly developed .
Other features , of which I reserve the description , are also noticeable .
I hope on some future occasion to make a fuller communication upon the subject to the Royal Society ; but in the mean time , if you think the matter of sufficient interest , I shall be much obliged by your offering this as a Preliminary Note .
Believe me , Tours very sincerely , W. Spottiswoode .

