12 Prof. Ayrton and Messrs. Mather and Smith .
[ June 5 , annealing respectively are of a different order to those which are due to allotropic or dimorphic transformations , or to the separation or rearrangement of constituents .
The results here recorded lead us to believe that mechanical work produces only internal rearrangement of the metallic grains or molecules , but does not lead to any chemical or physical changes such as are correctly regarded as allotropic .
We have met with no evidence to support the view that allotropic change results from mechanical work .
A New Current Weigher , and a Determination of the Electromotive Force of the Normal Cadmium Cell .
By Professor W. E. Ayrton , F.R.S. , and T. Mather , F.R.S. , Central Technical College , London , and F. E. Smith , A.R.C.S. , National Physical Laboratory , Teddington .
( Received June 5 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) Introductory .
The instrument described is the outcome of conversations between the late Professor J. Viriamu Jones , E.R.S. , and one of the authors ( W. E. A. ) , on their return from the British Association Meeting held in Toronto in 1897 .
Its object was to determine " the ampere " as defined in the C.G.S. system , to an accuracy comparable with that attained in the absolute determination of the ohm by Lorenz 's apparatus , an account of which was given by Professors Ayrton and Jones at the Toronto Meeting.* Professor Jones had previously developed a convenient formula for calculating the electromagnetic force between a helical current and a coaxial current sheet , viz. , F = YA7 ( M2\#151 ; Mi ) , f where \lt ; yh is the current in the helix , the current per unit length of the current sheet , and Mi , M2 the coefficients of mutual induction of the helix and the two ends of the current sheet respectively .
By using coaxial coils with single layers of wire wound in screw-thread grooves , advantage could be taken of the above formula .
* See 'B .
A. Report , ' Toronto , 1897 , p. 212 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 63 , p. 204 .
A New Current , etc. 1907 .
] A preliminary apparatus was made at the Central Technical College in 1897- 8 , and used to obtain experience as to the conditions necessary for successful operation.* The design of the proposed instrument was then proceeded with .
By employing the arrangement devised by one of the authors ( W. E. A. ) , of having double-threaded screw grooves wound with separate bare wires subsequently connected in series , it wTas possible to prevent any uncertainty existing regarding leakage between adjacent turns of a spiral .
At the same time , the absence of any silk covering on the wires wound on bare marble cylinders enabled very great precision in the measurement of the dimensions of each coil to be attained .
Complete working drawings and specifications of the proposed instrument and its adjustable support were prepared at the Central Technical College in 1898- 99 , Mr. J. P. Gregory , a then student of the College , rendering very valuable assistance in this work .
Grants amounting to \#163 ; 300 , for the construction of the balance , were made by the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1897 and 1898 , and Sir Andrew Noble , F.R.S. , kindly presented the adjustable phosphor bronze stand , designed to support the instrument .
The physical balance was built by Mr. L. Oertling , of London ; and the electrical portions were made at the National Physical Laboratory under the supervision of the Director , Dr. R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. General Description .
The instrument consists of a very sensitive physical balance , with a 20-inch beam , f supporting from each end a coil with vertical axis ; these coils hang coaxially within fixed coils carried from the base .
All the coils are wound in single layers on hollow marble cylinders having double-threaded screw grooves cut on their surfaces , the fixed cylinders being about 13 inches diameter , 11 inches high , and 2 inches thick , and the suspended cylinders 8 x 6 x | inches .
Each fixed cylinder carries two windings , an upper and a lower , in which the current circulates in opposite directions , so that one repels and the other attracts , the current carrying winding on the suspended cylinder hanging symmetrically between them .
Each winding , on both fixed and suspended cylinders , consists of two helices occupying adjacent grooves of the double-threaded screws ; there are thus 12 wires in all on the four cylinders , and these are connected all in series in the ordinary use of the balance .
Connection with the suspended coils is made by flexible silver wires 1 mil * 'B .
A. Report , ' Bristol , 1898 , p. 157 ; also ' Journ. Inst. Elec .
Engrs .
, ' vol. 35 , p. 12 .
+ The balance carries about 5fr kilos , and turns with 1 / 10 milligramme .
Prof. Ayrton and Messrs. Mather and Smith .
[ June 5 , in diameter , arranged 80 in parallel , and all other leads to and from the coils are of small concentric cable .
These cables run to a plug board and commutators , whereby the current in any or all of the 12 helices may be reversed .
Adjacent helices can also be disconnected from each other , and electrically grouped so that the insulation between all the pairs may be found by a single test .
When in use for measuring current , the directions of circulation in the several coils are arranged so that they all produce a torque in the same sense on the balance beam , and this torque is balanced by suitable masses placed on the scale pans .
Reversal of the current , in the fixed coils only , produces an apparent change of weight , which is a measure of the square of the current employed .
The position of the beam of the balance is observed by viewing through a microscope a finely divided scale carried by the pointer .
The masses used to balance the electromagnetic forces can be manipulated .quickly and conveniently without opening the case of the instrument , four weight lifters being provided for this purpose .
To prevent change of level of the suspended cylinders on removing or replacing the weights , the scale pans are carried on separate planes resting on the knife edges from which the suspended coils hang .
For convenience in erection and adjustment the fixed coils are supported on phosphor bronze slide rests , capable of about half an inch movement in two horizontal directions and of 14 inches vertical displacement .
Advantages of Duplication of Coils .
The arrangement of having a set of coils at each end of the balance beam has several advantages .
Independent determinations may be made on the two sets , or , by using both together , the forces are approximately doubled .
Differential tests can also be made so that one set serves as a check on the other .
The chief advantage , however , is the symmetry obtained , which neutralises to a very great extent the disturbances arising from convection currents of air and change of air buoyancy .
The double winding is also of great utility in this respect , as it permits of an electromagnetic weighing being made with one set of coils without introducing the error , due to drift of zero , which would occur if that set alone were heated by the passage of the current .
This is effected by arranging the connections so that the currents in adjacent helices on one pair of cylinders are in opposite directions ; they have then no electromagnetic effect , and yet are heated by the passage of the current just as much as the coils on the other pair .
1907 .
] A New Current , etc. Magnetic .
Before constructing the parts of the balance , magnetic tests were made on all the materials intended to be used , and in cases where the permeability differed appreciably from unity those parts were rejected .
When the instrument was completed it was used to test itself , but no trace whatever of magnetism could be detected .
Construction and Winding .
The material employed for the fixed and suspended cylinders is Carrara Statuary Marble , which , after being turned approximately to size , was baked in an oven at 140 ' C. for 30 hours and then immersed in hot paraffin wax .
The turning was then completed , the V grooves cut and bare copper wire , No. 24 S.W.G. , wound in them under tension , numerous measurements of the diameter of the wire being made during the winding .
Special arrangements were made to ensure that each helix contained an exact number of turns , and that the two helices of one pair start and end in the same diametral plane .
The pitch of the screw grooves is 1/ 18 inch : each helix on a suspended cylinder has 92 turns , making 184 in all , and those on each fixed cylinder 90 turns , making a total of 360 .
These turns on the fixed cylinders are in two portions , upper and lower , with an unwound space of 2/ 18 inch between them .
The axial length of the suspended coil is , therefore , equal to the distance between the central planes of the upper and lower windings on the fixed cylinder .
On all the cylinders the total number of turns is 1088 and the total length of wire about 980 metres .
Measurement of Coils .
Measurements of the axial lengths of the windings were made by a cathetometer , and of the diameters by a special measuring machine obtained from Messrs. Stanley , of London .
An optical lever used with the latter instrument gave a deflexion of 2 mm. for a movement of the micrometer of 1 g(1/ 1000 of a millimetre ) , so the dimensions could be determined with great precision .
Such accuracy in the measurement of the diameters was rendered possible owing to the use of bare wire wound on bare marble .
About 120 diameters were measured on each suspended cylinder , and about 220 on each fixed one , the probable error of the mean diameter of any cylinder amounting to about five in a million .
All the cylinders are very nearly perfect , the ellipticities and the conicalities being extremely small .
Prof. Ayrton and Messrs. Mather and Smith .
[ June 5 After measuring the coils and insulating adjacent helices , the windings were coated with melted wax , and again measured in numerous places from which the wax was temporarily removed ; no appreciable change in dimensions could be found .
Erection and Adjustment .
To facilitate the setting of the cylinders , two spirit-levels are mounted on the upper plane end of each , and adjusted so that when these indicate level the axis of the corresponding cylinder is truly vertical .
Mechanical indicators are also provided for showing when the cylinders are co-axial and when the middle planes of the windings on the fixed and suspended cylinders coincide .
The vertical and horizontal adjustments can also be tested by electrical methods which are simple and very accurate ; these were adopted in the final settings , the error introduced by faulty adjustment amounting to something less than 1 part in 5 millions .
Calculation of Mutual Inductions and Forces between the Coils .
The formulae employed are given in Professor J. Y. Jones ' paper , mentioned on p. 12 , and were employed by two of the authors ( T. M. and F. E. S. ) to calculate independently the mutual inductions and the forces between the fixed and suspended coils when a current of 1 ampere circulates in them .
The values of M2\#151 ; Mi , defined on p. 12 , calculated ( a ) with logarithms and ( 6 ) by calculating machine , were in very close agreement , the difference being less than 1 in a million .
The actual numbers are 25962 02 cm .
and 25962-04 cm .
respectively for the left-hand set of coils , and 25960-45 cm .
and 25960-43 cm .
for the right-hand set .
This order of accuracy in the values of the coefficients of mutual induction is rendered quite real by a knowledge of the exact position of the bare conductors and the certainty that no current leaks from one convolution of wire to any other .
In both cases the sum for both sets of coils is 51922-47 cm .
, and this number was used in most of the determinations .
Taking the value of g , the acceleration of gravity at Bushy , as 981*20 , and the length of winding on the suspended cylinders as 12-9830 cm .
, the change of apparent mass on reversal of 1 ampere in both sets of coils becomes m \#151 ; 14*99 928 grammes .
This assumes that no forces exist between the fixed coils on one side of the balance and the suspended ones on the other side .
As a matter of fact , such forces are present , but can be eliminated by taking two sets of readings , one set in which the cross actions assist the direct ones and the other set in which A New Current Weigher , 1907 .
] these forces oppose each other .
These sets give what we have called ( D + S ) ( direct + secondary ) and ( D \#151 ; S ) observations respectively .
The change from one condition to the other is effected by simply reversing the direction of current in all the coils on one side of the balance ; this leaves the direct forces unchanged in direction but reverses the secondary forces .
In the majority of the determinations ( D + S ) and ( D \#151 ; S ) observations were taken in succession and the current calculated from the expression amperes = v/ ( w/ /29'99856 ) , where mf is the sum of the balancing masses in the ( D + S ) and ( D \#151 ; S ) tests .
Tests on Cadmium Cells .
To determine the E.M.F. of a cell , an electric current supplied by a 110-volt storage battery was passed through a standard resistance of approximately 1 ohm , in series with the current weigher , and adjusted in strength until the P.D. between the terminals of the resistance balanced the E.M.F. of the cell .
The magnitude of this current was then determined by the instrument , the cell and the resistance being kept at very nearly constant temperature during the measurements .
Switches with copper contacts and terminals , to minimise thermal E.M.F. 's , were used in the cell circuit , and reversals of current and of the cell were sometimes made to eliminate inaccuracies which might otherwise be introduced by such E.M.F. 's .
As the steadiness of the balance was much greater when the instrument was cold than when heated by the long continued flow of the current in the coils , our usual procedure was to make one complete set of observations , ( D + S ) and ( D \#151 ; S ) , in the morning and another in the afternoon .
The interval between the morning and afternoon readings was often devoted to silver deposit determinations , the combination of cell and standard resistance being used as a secondary standard of current during the depositions .
An account of work on silver is well advanced , and will be published shortly .
In all some 71 observations have been made on a certain cadmium cell ( N.P.L. , No. 2 ) , using both sets of coils on the balance , and 13 observations in which one or other of the two sets was employed .
The agreement between the individual results obtained with the two sets of coils is remarkable , the average difference from the mean amounting to only six parts in a million .
The whole series of observations extended over a period of 19 months ( September , 1905 , to April , 1907 ) , and during that interval the coils of the balance were reset five times .
No determination made has been omitted , except those in which the observations were of such a nature that A New Current Weigher , etc. a decision to disregard the result was arrived at before its computation .
Such occasions were very rare .
Of the 71 observations made , 7 are within 1 in a million of the mean , 14 are within 2 , 28 within 5 , 53 within 10 , 66 within 15 , and 70 within 20 in a million .
Only 1 determination out of the whole 71 , and this one of the earliest , differs from the mean by so much as 1 part in 59,000 .
The above facts constitute important evidence of constancy in both cell and balance .
In fact , both current weigher and cell proved to be much more constant and trustworthy than the standard resistance , although the latter was very carefully made and annealed with a view to ensuring permanency .
Expressed in terms of the international ohm , as realised at the National Physical Laboratory , and of the ampere as given by the new current weigher , the value of C x E for the normal Weston cadmium cell is P018305 at 17 ' C. This assumes that the value of g at Bushy is 981T9 , a number probably correct to within 3 parts in 100,000 .
An uncertainty of this amount in g introduces a possible error of 1| parts in 100,000 in the value of the ampere , and , as all other probable errors are smaller in magnitude , it is important that a more accurate determination of g at Bushy should be made .
To realise the volt with an accuracy approaching that of the ampere as now known , it is necessary that an absolute determination of resistance of corresponding precision be undertaken .
At the present time the uncertainty in the absolute value of the international ohm approximates to 4 parts in 10,000 .
From the above value of C x E for the cadmium cell , together with the ratio of Clark to cadmium , viz.:\#151 ; Clark at 15 ' C. cadmium at 17 ' C. = l'406fi , the E.M.F. of the Clark cell at 15 ' becomes 1*4323 .
Two Appendices accompany the paper : one of these gives the numerical values of the constants in the series for calculating F and E , the complete elliptic integrals of the first and second kinds respectively ; the other relates to the corrections in the forces between the coils of the balance arising from the finite thickness of the wire used , and from the fact that helices are substituted for current sheets .
Neither of these corrections affects the results appreciably .
Some historical notes are given in the paper .

