OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. a CONTENTS .
Page Frederick Ducane Godman ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... i .Tames William Helenus Trail ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... vii Edward Saunders ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xii Roland Trimen ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xyiii Thomas Gregor BrodIe ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxviii Horace Bolingbroke Woodward ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xxxi James Geikie ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xxxiii Gustaf Magnus Retzius ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xxxvi Ludimar Hermann ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .xxxviii Sir Jonathan Hutchinson ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Sir Victor Horsley ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xliy Octavius Pickard-Cambridge ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xlix FREDERICK DUCANE GODMAN , 1834\#151 ; 1919 .
THE^death of a , man who has taken such an active and distinguished part in zoology for so many years , is a loss to science , which all who knew him must deplore .
Godman was born in January , 1834 , the third son of Joseph Godman of Park Hatch , Godaiming , who as a partner in the firm of Whitbread and Co. was able to leave him an ample fortune .
As a boy at Eton , where he went in 1844 , he was delicate in health , and after three years was removed and continued his education under private tutors .
Before he went to Cambridge he was sent on a tour to the Mediterranean and showed his independence by refusing to go home with his tutor , wTho wished to return to England by a vessel sailing six hours after their arrival at Constantinople .
He made the acquaintance of some English travellers , and went on a trip with them to the Black Sea and to Sebastopol , about which city he was called on later to give some information to the War Office before the Crimean War .
He returned to the Crimea in a yacht in 1855 to visit his brother in the 5th Dragoon Guards\#151 ; Captain , afterwards General Godman\#151 ; who was serving in the war .
He then witnessed the storming of the Rifle Pits , the capture of the Mamelon , and the entrance of the Allied fleets into Besika Bay .
^n 1858 he entered Trinity College , Cambridge , where he first met Osbert Salvin and the late Prof. Edward Newton , of Magdalene College .
This association was without doubt the main influence which determined his future career ; for without it Godman , whose love of sport was as strong as it is in the sons of most English country gentlemen , might have become , as many do under similar conditions , a worthy member of his native county society , a master of hounds , a respected magistrate , or even an M.P. But the love of Nature which was born in him was guided and increased by the formation whilst he was at Cambridge of the British Ornithologists ' Union , and by close association with the original founders ; amongst whom Alfred Newton , P. L. Sclater , and Canon Tristram , all members of this society , did much to train the young ornithologists of the day to a high standard of accurate .observation , correct nomenclature , and scientific thoroughness , which has always distinguished the ' Ibis ' and its contributors .
It may be said that ornithology is not a science which can conduce very much to the welfare of the world , but Godman 's love of natural history was not confined to birds , for.he also took an active interest in plants and insects , and became President of the Royal Entomological Society in 1892 .
His Presidential Address in 1893 ( ' Ent .
Soc. Trans. , ' 1892 , vol. 46 ) , contains some observations which may be profitably read at the present time by those who are inclined to minimise the utility of systematic collecting .
Boys with a love of nature , who possess the hunting instinct which usually accompanies it , habitually ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
begin with birds and butterflies .
Most of them under the influence of classical teachers are taught to consider such pursuits as trivial , and when they grow older they drop them as being boyish .
But as Godman pointed out in his address , when speaking of the late H. W. Bates , F.R.S. , the combination of qualities necessary to make a good traveller , a good collector , and a good observer , all of which Godman himself possessed to a high degree , " are of special value at the present day , when it is the practice of some to extol certain branches of our subject , and to decry others ; to exalt generalisations , and to depreciate the drier and less attractive labours of the systematise " And as I tried to point out in my own Presidential Address to the same Society in 1895 , this tendency , which seems to be increasing amongst botanists as well as zoologists , has a bad influence on many young men who are encouraged by the example of their teachers to neglect that exact knowledge of the objects they study , which can only be attained by collecting .
Generalisations , so often based on imperfect knowledge of classification and geographical distribution , can only be attempted with success by the few men whose brain power is much above the average .
Godman was not such a man , and never pretended to be , but by his own work , life and example , he made it possible for others to do such work at a future period , by providing and describing the material on which alone they can safely rely .
It is certain that an accurate knowledge of the obscure and difficult orders of insects , which have in the past materially obstructed the progress of colonisation in our tropical possessions and colonies , can only be obtained by the encouragement of such work as has been done and is being done by men , who have no professional scientific training , but have devoted themselves to science in their thirst for knowledge .
The close friendship which Godman formed at Cambridge with Salvin has been well described by the late Prof. Newton in his obituary notice of the latter ( cf. ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , March , 1899 ) ; this developed later into a lifelong scientific partnership , which is unique in the annals of zoological science , and enabled them to do together what neither man could have done alone .
For though it was at Godman 's expense that the collections were acquired , they were , together with the library , held in common , and they continued their close association and intimate friendship after Salvin 's marriage in 1865 and until his death in 1898 .
Though Salvin had probably a deeper insight into the difficult questions of classification , and was able in many ways to inspire Godman 's work , yet no one could ever say that either partner took a lead , or that their respective shares in their joint work were not carried on without the least shade of difference or dissent .
On leaving Cambridge Godman began his ornithological travels .
His first expedition was with his brother Percy ( now the sole survivor of the original members of the British Ornithological Union ) to the north of Norway , when he visited John Wolley , the greatest oologist of his day , in Lapland , and walked across that country on his way to Sweden and Russia .
An account of Frederick Ducane Godman .
iii this journey was Godman 's first essay in publication and appeared in the ' Ibis ' for 1861 .
His next journey , in 1861 , was with Salvin to Guatemala , where the latter had already made large collections of birds and plants in 1857 and 1859 , their object being to investigate the problems of geographical distribution and evolution , in which Darwin 's ' Origin of Species ' had aroused their interest .
This journey , which lasted for some time , took them through many remote districts then hardly known to travellers , and the rich collections they formed were the nucleus of what afterwards became the most complete collection of birds , mammals , and insects ever formed in Central America , of which I shall say*more later .
In 1865 Godman , accompanied by his brother , Capt. Temple Godman and- an entomologist , visited the Azores , to investigate the fauna and flora of that group of islands , which were then little known and specially interesting on account of the light which they throw on geographical distribution .
He visited all the islands except Santa Maria , and brought back a large collection , which he afterwards described in a book on the Azores , published in 1870 .
In 1871 he went to the Canaries and Madeira with the same object , and published an account of this in the 'Ibis ' in 1872 , which resulted in an interesting correspondence with Darwin.* In 1876 he and Salvin formed the idea of publishing the great work ' Biologia Centrali-Americana , ' which gradually developed into the largest series of the sort that has ever been privately published at the expense of one man , and which occupied the authors for the rest of their respective lives .
The collections which were gradually brought together for this work , were first stored in Salvin 's house in London , and when he was appointed Curator of the Strickland collection of birds at Cambridge , Godman took a house in Tenterden Street , where until 1878 the joint museum and library were housed .
Here the late Lord Lilford , President of the British Ornithologists ' Union , also had rooms , and the house became a centre of ornithological society and fellowship .
Later on , the collections were removed to Chandos Street , where they remained till after Salvin 's death in 1898 .
The two friends had previously determined to present the whole of their collections to the British Museum of Natural History , and , with his usual disinterestedness , Godman decided that they should be incorporated in the National Collection as soon as they had been worked out .
For this purpose he employed his own skilled workers , and at the time of his death the great task of incorporation was almost concluded .
The great Henshaw collection of birds of the United States was added , and several private collectors had been employed for many years in various localities in Mexico , and in Central and South America , so that the mass of material was enormous .
The number of bird-skins alone eventually handed over amounted to no less than 520,000 , the largest single donation ever made to the Museum of Natural History .
* Probably in connection with the boulders in Tercho Ste. Maria ( see ' Origin of Species , ' p. 393 ) , Godman maintaining that the islands were volcanic and the boulders merely ballast .
iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
The original plan of the ' Biologia ' was to publish six quarto parts annually , made up of various subjects , with six coloured plates in each , so paged and numbered that they might when complete be broken up and bound in their respective volumes .
The work gradually grew until , when finished , it consisted of 63 quarto volumes ; of which 1 forms the Introduction , 51 relate to Zoology , 5 to Botany , and 6 to Archaeology .
Of these , three volumes oh Birds and three on Butterflies were the sole work of Godman and Salvin , whilst those on other orders of insects were the work of various specialists , those on Botany by Mr. Hemsley , and those on Archaeology by Mr. A. P. Maudslay .
They are illustrated by no less than 1677 plates , of which over 900 are coloured ; and the total number of species described is 50,263 , of which more than 19,000 were new .
Neither to Godman nor Salvin was granted the health and strength to complete the work as .they had originally intended , but to the former additional years gave time to bring many descriptions to an end , and with the assistance of the best zoologists of the day a summing up of each subject was made , accompanied by maps specially drawn for the purpose .
The larger intention of publishing the deductions arrived at during such an extensive work would have occupied years , and , with failing health , Godman wisely elected to offer to the world a book , already more vast and complete in detail than anything ever yet privately published , stating , as he did in the preface , that in laying the foundations , he trusted that others might develop the work .
In 1880 , Godman accompanied me on a short trip to India , during which we visited the North-west Himalayas and Sikkim , advancing into the interior as far as the snow would allow .
The wonderful views of Kinchin-junga from a point very near its base , and of Mount Everest by moonlight from an elevation of 13,000 feet impressed Godman deeply , and great traveller as he was , he always referred with delight to that splendid scenery .
Here the first symptoms of a slight weakness of the heart , which afterwards showed itself at lower elevations , became evident , and on one occasion this overcame Godman so seriously that I was for a time very anxious about his recovery ; but he was so active and keen both in sport and collecting , that he did not hesitate afterwards to undertake a long and rather dangerous journey through the fever-stricken jungles of the Bhotan Duars to get a very rare and remarkable butterfly which had then only once been taken near Buxa .
In 1885 he was advised to spend the winter in a warmer climate than England , and went to Mexico in the autumn , accompanied by two ornithological and two entomological collectors who worked in parts of the country where no previous collections had been made .
He visited the celebrated ruins of Yucatan , which have been so admirably figured and described in the archaeological part of the ' Biologia ' by Maudslay , and when I joined him in the winter we visited Orizaba and ascended the volcano of Popocatapetl , where we made large collections , returning California , visiting the Yosemite Valley and afterwards the Yellowstone National Park .
Frederick Ducane v About this time Godman became very interested in plants , and at his home , near Horsham , he formed a good collection of orchids , and one of the best of Alpine plants , growing them with great success , and gradually laying out one of the most beautiful and interesting gardens in the south of England .
Rhododendrons , which the soil suits admirably , also interested him very much .
In his garden he was always careful to have the numerous rare plants correctly named , and in his later years derived the greatest pleasure from their cultivation and from sharing them with numerous visitors .
Farming and building occupied his attention , and his practical knowledge was the admiration of his workpeople .
Godman 's first wife , the daughter of the late J. H. Elwes , of Colesborhe , Gloucestershire , died in 1875 without issue .
In 1891 he married Alice Mary , the daughter of the late Major Percy Chaplin , who , with two daughters , survives him .
Together with his wife , he visited the West Indies , Egypt , South Africa , Rhodesia , as far as the Victoria Falls , etc. On a second trip to Egypt they journeyed to Khartoum and up the White Nile as far as Goz Abu Guma , and later joined forces with Dr. Andrews in the excavation of fossil animals , including the Arsinotherium , in the desert of the Fayurn .
Possessed of remarkable powers of observation and an intense love of nature , Godman succeeded in all that he undertook .
His collection of Persian , - Rhodian , Damascus , and Hispano-Mauresque ware is the finest in existence , and in other arts as well he was no mean connoisseur , while his readiness to share his treasures was shown by the frequency of his loans to the South Kensington Museum and other art galleries .
His taste for Geology was very strong , and in later years this subject and that of Palaeontology almost rivalled his lifelong devotion to Zoology ; the recent discoveries at Piltdown were immediately visited , in company with his friend Godwin-Austen , and the work that followed afforded him a lasting interest .
Highly gifted as he was , no man was more modest , and a shyness amounting almost to a horror of public speaking made Godman avoid publicity ; but in his own house few could equal him as a host , and his fine nature , vast stores of learning , and varied abilities had full scope , and in the hundreds of letters of condolence received from men of all ranks and shades of opinion there is a unanimous expression of affectionate admiration for one who exercised the charm of a well-nigh perfect nature combined with a wide understanding .
In 1882 Godman had been elected to the Royal Society , and in reviewing the life of this remarkable man , I cannot but feel that it is a very great misfortune that so few men of the Godman type are now able to attain the honour of Fellowship in this great Society .
If one looks through the list of candidates of recent years it will be seen that country gentlemen , who have trained themselves in scientific work and who could be encouraged to do a great deal for science , are conspicuous by their absence .
There seems to be a tendency to limit the elections into the Society to men who , making their living by the teaching or practice of some branch of science , are able to vi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
specialise sufficiently , in order to publish what is now considered to be the necessary amount of original work .
I feel sure that the Society would gain if more men of the Godman type could be led to believe that the Fellowship of the Society is not closed to them .
As a Trustee of the British Museum , Godman probably had a wider knowledge of the needs and working , certainly in the Natural History part , than anyone else , and he spared no time or trouble in keeping himself in close touch with it .
He was keenly alive to the disadvantages of the Civil Service system when applied to such appointments , holding that work was better done and the interests of the Nation best served , by the payment of good salaries rather than by advancement by seniority and deferred pay in the shape of a pension .
He never ceased to deplore the loss of valuable time incurred by the amount of clerical work expected of heads of Departments , whose time for scientific work was correspondingly decreased .
Godman was devoted to sport , especially hunting , fishing , and deerstalking , and in his youth to rowing and swimming .
Two of his feats in this direction are worthy of mention , namely , the crossing of the Hellespont and of the Menai Straits , both against strong currents and both entirely unpremeditated excursions .
For many years he rented deer forests in the Highlands , where he was as much beloved as he was by his own employees at home .
Even when his health began to fail , and his physical powers had decreased for some two or three years before his death , his interest in science and in everything Mound him never failed , his unvarying good temper and kindness of disposition never left him .
He died in London quietly from heart failure , after a short illness at his house in Pont Street , and was buried at Cowfold , in Sussex , where his funeral was attended by a great number of people of all classes who had known and loved him .
Godman was an active member of many societies ; he had been Vice-President and was long on the Council of the Zoological Society , a Past-President of the Entomological Society , of the British Ornithologists ' Union , Gold Medallist of the Linnsean Society in 1918 , a Trustee of the British Museum , and a D.C.L. of Oxford University .
He was also a Fellow of the Society 6f Antiquaries , of the Geological and Royal Geographical Societies .
The British Ornithologists ' Union have decided to commemorate him , in conjunction with Salvin , by the institution of a Godman-Salvin Gold Medal , to be given by the Union for specially good work in Ornithology ; and another committee has been formed at the British Museum of Natural History to enable members of other societies to present a memorial to that institution in the shape of a bronze portrait-plaque of the two friends , and a fund for travelling and collecting , to be called the Godman Exploration Fund .
H. J. E. Vll JAMES WILLIAM HELENUS TRAIL , 1851-1919 .
James William Helenus Trail was born at Birsay , in Orkney , on March 4th , 1851 .
He was the youngest son of the Very Rev. Samuel Trail , minister of Birsay and Harray , 1843-67 ; Professor of Systematic Theology , University of Aberdeen , 1867-87 ; Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1874 .
After a sound preparatory education at home , Trail was sent to Mr. Tulloch 's academy , then a good private school in Aberdeen .
From this he was transferred , in 1865 , to the Grammar School of Old Aberdeen , where he was subjected to the intensive classical drill then deemed essential before matriculation .
In Trail 's case this hard discipline , in place of increasing , had the effect of destroying any enthusiasm he may ever have shown for classical study .
As a child he had been addicted to the observation and collection of natural objects .
While at school under Mr. Tulloch this predilection had been encouraged and directed into methodical channels .
Even at the Grammar School his favourite pursuits occupied his scanty leisure .
The habit continued after he entered the University in 1866 .
Though a good student in all the arts departments , he did not seek distinction in classics , in mathematics , or in philosophy .
He concentrated his attention on the subjects in the Natural Science Department , in which he obtained " highest honours " when he graduated M.A. in 1870 .
Entering the medical faculty , which at that time provided the only avenue the University could offer to those anxious to adopt a scientific career , Trail was not particularly attracted by Ins purely professional studies .
On the other hand , he served , during the years 1870-73 , as assistant to the professors of botany and chemistry and to the curator of the zoological museum .
In 1873 he gave further proof of his attitude towards medicine by abandoning his studies altogether , in order to take advantage of an opportunity of learning at first hand what a tropical fauna and flora are like .
He accepted the position of naturalist to a South American exploring expedition , and in this capacity was able to travel upwards of 16,000 miles on the Amazon and its northern tributaries , making ample notes of his observations and securing large zoological and botanical collections .
Returning in 1875 , Trail resumed his medical studies and at the same time set about the arrangement of his material and the publication of some of his results .
The value of his material so impressed those competent to judge that in December , 1875 , Trail was elected to the Linnean Society .
His medical studies gave him little trouble and in 1876 he graduated M.B. with " highest academical honours .
" The thoroughness and ability displayed in working out his collections led to his selection , towards the end of 1876 , to fill the post of Government botanist in British Guiana .
Early in 1877 , however , when Trail was about to leave , the Professor of Botany at Aberdeen , the late VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. b viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Dr. G. Dickie , F.RS .
, was compelled , on the advice of his physician , to tender his resignation .
The Crown appointed Trail to the vacant chair , the duties of which he took up in May , 1877 .
When Trail was appointed it was remarked in some quarters that the Crown had chosen a zoologist to fill a botanical chair .
The authors of this comment could justify it by citing the circumstance that of the 30 odd contributions to natural knowledge made by Trail during 1870-76 , 14 relate to purely zoological observations .
The comment was nevertheless a superficial one , for a dozen of the remaining articles were contributions to the study of galls , a subject of equal interest to zoologists and botanists , while of the four purely botanical contributions two are important additions to the history of palms .
What had really happened was that the Crown took the opportunity \#151 ; even then far from common , and to-day , unfortunately , rarer still\#151 ; of appointing to a biological chair an incumbent who had already given signal proof that he was an accomplished naturalist , endowed with a marked capacity for exact and patient observation , and an extensive acquaintance with the morphological features and the bionomic relationships both of plants and of animals .
That Trail was as competent to conduct a zoological as a botanical class he soon had an opportunity of showing .
The chair of zoology in ' the University became vacant in 1878 , and the professor appointed by the Crown was prevented for a year from taking up the duties .
At the request of his University , Trail taught the zoology class during 1878-79 with as much success as attended his conduct of the botany one .
As events were to prove , one of the factors that made Trail so effective and useful as a teacher was the unconscious ease with which he could apply his wide and exact zoological knowledge to the explanation of facts and phenomena connected with plant life .
When Trail took up the duties of his chair the equipment of the botanical department was extremely defective .
This was neither due to neglect on the part of the eminent algologist whom he succeeded nor owing to any want of sympathy on that of the University authorities .
The opportunity which the task of teaching two classes afforded , enabled Trail to think out a scheme whereby these defects might be remedied with due regard to the needs of his chair on the one hand , and to the economic condition of the University on the other .
By 1879 , the year in which he proceeded to the degree of M.D. , Trail had begun to carry out his designs .
With patient but unflagging courage and energy he kept to his purpose , with the result that he has left for his successor a well-equipped and thoroughly modern botanical department , with an excellent teaching museum , well-furnished laboratories , and an admirable botanical garden .
While immersed in this task , Trail was given an opportunity , in 1883 , of accepting the leadership of an important exploring expedition to tropical East Africa .
He undertook the duty subject to the condition that he be shown the consideration extended to the professor of zoology in 1878 , and be excused the responsibility of nominating the substitute required to conduct James William Helenus Trail .
IX liis class during his absence .
This , fortunately for his department , the authorities concerned were unable to arrange .
Trail , however , only escaped one duty in order to undertake another .
From 1871 onwards his communications on the subject of galls had been published in the 'Scottish Naturalist/ and had led to the establishment of a warm friendship between himself and the editor , Dr. Francis Buchanan White .
In 1883 White resolved to relinquish the editorship and persuaded Trail to take it up .
Trail edited the journal from 1884 until , in 1892 , it was merged in the ' Annals of Scottish Natural History , ' when he undertook the botanical editorship of the new serial .
He fulfilled these duties during the 20 years that the ' Annals ' were published .
In 1886 Trail took a prominent part in the foundation of the Aberdeen Working Men 's Natural History Society .
The success of this organisation he did much to ensure by often guiding its discussions and sometimes leading its excursions .
The members repaid his assistance by appointing him year by year to serve as their president .
By 1889 his work as a student of galls had secured for him a European reputation , and led to his election in that year to the Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft of Vienna .
The energy and tact displayed by Trail in the organisation and development of his own department led to his being invited to undertake a new and important duty .
In 1891 the University Commissioners called for a report from the library committee on the condition of the library .
Trail , who had been a member of this committee since 1877 , was unanimously requested to accept the posts of curator of the library and chairman of the committee , and to draft the necessary report .
How well he accomplished his task may be gathered from the circumstance that he was thereafter re-elected to both posts every year .
The present condition and organisation of the library owe much to his foresight and care .
The following year saw a further addition to his academic duties .
A faculty of science was established in the University \gt ; and in 1892 he was appointed its dean .
But these added tasks in no way impaired his efficiency as a teacher or his activity as an observer .
His attainments in the latter capacity were recognised by his election to the Royal Society in 1893 and to the Deutsche-botanische Gesellschaft in 1894 .
The year 1895 brought Trail a new engagement .
In 1894 his friend Buchanan White had died .
This able naturalist , like Trail himself , was as competent a zoologist as he was a botanist .
The sympathies and interests of the two were identical , their comradeship had long been close , and when it was represented to Trail that it was desirable to prepare for publication the unfinished manuscript of White 's ' Flora of Perthshire/ he undertook the work without hesitation .
It proved a heavy obligation , but , with the help of mutual friends of the author and the editor , the task was completed in 1898 .
This , however , was by no means the only extra-academic duty undertaken by Trail during the same period .
His business capacity was as fully appreciated outside the University as within its walls , and his help was eagerly sought .
Taking no part in political or municipal affairs , he nevertheless felt it his x Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
duty to respond to appeals connected with the advancement of education , especially scientific education .
This led to his serving as the chairman of more than one education committee , and as a governor of various educational trusts .
It also induced him to take a leading part in the movement which culminated in 1903 in the foundation of a College of Agriculture , and to accept the presidency of the Buchan Field Club , which he demitted in 1904 .
He was equally active in the movement which led to the foundation in the University of a Forestry lectureship , and he showed his readiness to further the cause of science generally by serving as president of the botanical section of the British Association at the 80th meeting , held in 1910 .
The last ten years of Trail 's scientific activity were devoted to the accumulation and arrangement of data for a ' Flora of North-Eastern Scotland , ' on a scale wider and more comprehensive than anything of the kind hitherto attempted .
It is a source of deep regret to his friends that his death should have placed his own material for this work in the jeopardy from which he was able to rescue that of the late Dr. Buchanan White .
The strain induced by war conditions had the effect of preventing , after 1913 , the annual visits , spent in working at Kew and the British Museum , to which he was wont to look forward .
Otherwise the difficulties of the time did not appear to affect his life or curtail his energy .
With the cessation of hostilities he had to face that sudden increase in the number of students which has been the common experience of seats of learning .
His class , in 1919 , had to be divided into two moieties , and with characteristic self-sacrifice , he resolved to give as much personal attention to each pupil as was his practice in former years .
Whether this doubling of the hours devoted to the work of his class played any part in inducing or aggravating the insidious malady\#151 ; a duodenal ulcer\#151 ; which ended his career is not clear .
The presence of his ailment was unsuspected until perforation took place .
Removed to a nursing home in Aberdeen , he stood well the surgical interference that was called for , and for a time hopes of recovery were entertained .
But disquieting symptoms supervened , his strength failed , and he died on September 18 , 1919 , in his 69th year .
Though by no means a fluent speaker , Trail was a clear and convincing teacher .
His statements , while never dogmatic , were always precise , and were conveyed in language chosen with care .
The matter discussed was used primarily as a means of education ; the imparting of instruction , which was ample , appeared to be incidental to his main purpose .
This was particularly evident in his practical classes , where he used his subject as a means of developing the faculty of observation and exercising the reasoning capacity of his pupils .
Ever ready with effective assistance in overcoming difficulties connected with technique , formal demonstration was skilfully avoided , and the solution of the problem set was left to the unaided efforts of the student .
The same purpose underlay his methods as the leader of class excursions , during which he was able , while retaining the esteem and respect of his pupils , to convince them of the essential solidarity of the interests of teacher and taught .
Outside his class he did much during many years for successive James William Helenus Trail .
xi .groups of undergraduates by the measures he adopted to increase the efficiency of the University battery .
He joined the corps himself with a subaltern commission , and by assiduous study and practice made himself an efficient officer , earning his eventual promotion to field rank and the command of the corps solely by merit and without reference to his position in the University .
The result was that the endeavour to obtain efficiency , which he expected on the part of others , was readily and successfully made .
The high sense of duty which led Trail to lend his organising powers to the University and the community at large cannot be looked upon as a matter for regret .
The services he so ungrudgingly rendered were in every instance .devoted to the causes of higher education and of science .
There was , however , an inevitable consequence of this manifestation of civic virtue which must be regarded as unfortunate .
The notes and papers , some 250 in number , in which Trail 's contributions to natural knowledge have been published are of such a quality as to justify our regret that they are not more numerous Those who had the privilege of Trail 's personal acquaintance are aware that these published notes represent but a small fraction of the observations carefully recorded by him during his scientific career .
His results were at all times freely at the disposal of anyone who cared to consult him .
It is among those who owe him most gratitude for help thus rendered that the greatest regret is felt that so little of the wide and exact information secured by Trail as the result of his own observation is .
now available for use by others .
To the furtherance of scientific education and research Trail devoted means as well as time .
In memory of his mother he founded in the University a fund to be employed in assisting undergraduates in any of the faculties who may display approved proficiency in Natural History studies .
On completing 25 years ' continuous service as curator of the University library he founded another fund , to be used , in supplement of regular grants from the University purse , for the purchase of scientific books .
To the Linnean Society he committed the management of a third fund , to reward special research .
But these recorded gifts bear even less relationship to Trail 's constant but unobtrusive benevolence than his published contributions to natural knowledge bear to the vast store of scientific facts , peculiar to himself , secured by patient observation in many fields of Natural History .
Quiet in manner and naturally reserved , Trail did not often intervene in .discussion .
When , on being invited , he did speak he was listened to with attention , not only because of his wide knowledge , but because of his manifest sincerity and his balanced judgment .
In Trail those who had the privilege of his friendship have lost a wise and kindly counsellor ; natural science has lost -a distinguished worker in a field where much remains to be done and the labourers are far too few .
D. P. VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. c xii EDWARD SAUNDERS , 1848\#151 ; 1910 .
Edward Saunders , who died February 6 , 1910 , at Bognor , was born March 22 , 1848 , at East Hill , Wandsworth\#151 ; the youngest of the seven children of William Wilson Saunders , F.R.S. , for eleven years Treasurer of the Linnean Society , and well known for his immense Entomological and Horticultural Collections and for his wide interest in science .
His house , Hillfield , Reigate , to which he moved from Wandsworth in 1857 , formed a great centre where scientific friends used to gather to study the collections and to meet one another .
Nor was the convivial side by any means wanting , as may be inferred from a memory of my friend Prof. Clifton who happened to meet one of the guests on Reigate platform .
I had a great honour last night , " said he in a manner half-sly , half-affected , " I was put to bed by Mr. Westwood .
" It was primarily for the Wilson Saunders collections that Alfred Russel Wallace set out on his famous expedition to the Malay Archipelago .
Educated at home , although he went for a time to a day school at Reigate , constantly in touch with the great collections , and meeting those who came to see them , always encouraged by his father and stimulated by his brother George , his sister , and his half-brother William Frederick , the naturalist members of the family , Edward Saunders grew up in conditions certain to bring out and develop to the full any taste for natural history that he possessed .
But after all the essential thing was the innate possession , together with the critical faculty which made it of value .
Conditions may evoke but they certainly do not create the qualities which made him , not yet thirteen , the predominant partner in preparing , in conjunction with his brother George , a list of the Mollusca of the Reigate District , published in February , 1861 ( 3 ) .
His sister , Mrs. T. R. R. Stebbing , recalls memories of his early interests : " We spent happy , busy , sheltered lives , without much of the style of education of the present day , but with much to turn our thoughts towards science .
My father was a very busy man , engaged at Lloyd 's as an underwriter all day , and full of his Natural History work and his garden when at home , but always ready to encourage his children in collecting .
" My youngest brother Edward and I , were always keenly fond of plants , and when we were quite little , father would give us a penny a dozen for pressed plants , and three pence a dozen if we wrote in their Latin names , which he would tell us .
We used to collect them on Wandsworth Common , .
and we left Wandsworth for Reigate in 1857 , when Edward was nine years old .
" At Reigate he soon got interested in English land- and fresh-water shells , and in birds and birds ' eggs .
I remember one of the first times that we were allowed to take a walk by ourselves , going to a chemist at Redhill for Photo by Elliott \amp ; , 1905 .
Edward Saunders .
xm arsenical soap for preparing bird-skins , and how offended my brother was at the chemist objecting to giving it to us , as we were too young ; but we got it in the end .
Edward was then ( about 1859 ) going to a small private school each day , and as time at home was limited we used to get up at 5 o'clock each morning to divide a collection of dried plants from Scotland that my father had given to us .
Edward was very keen on grasses and he made a good collection of them .
It was about this time that he began to be specially interested in Entomology .
" Edward Saunders travelled abroad a good deal , especially in the early part of his life .
His round of the foreign museums , in order to study the types of Buprestidcv , was far from being , as has been stated ( 1 ) , his only visit to the Continent .
It is probable that Wilson Saunders ' many interests interfered with the claims of marine insurance ; at any rate , the collapse came in 1873 , and the great collections had to be sold .
It was fortunately possible to preserve some of them from being broken up .
Of these , the greater part are at Oxford , although important groups are in , the British Museum ( N.H. ) and in the collection of Mr. J. J. Joicey .
Edward Saunders , who had entered his father 's office in 1865 , had henceforth to depend upon his own exertions , and could only devote himself to science in his scanty leisure .
A paper on " Coleoptera at Lowestoft , " published when he was 16 , in the first volume of the 'Entomologists ' Monthly Magazine'\#151 ; the journal lie was to edit for the last 30 years of his life\#151 ; marked the beginning of his life-work in insects .
He soon began to specialise in the Buprestidce , continuing to publish papers on the family up to 1874 , the classical ' Catalogus Buprestidarum Synonymicus et Systematicus ' appearing in 1871 .
Before he had finished with this group , he was bringing out notes on the British Hemiptera , followed in 1875-6 by the ' Synopsis of the British Hemiptera-Heteroptera , ' and in 1892 by his volume on the same subject .
While still attacking these two distinct and widely separated groups , he began on , what was destined to become the chief work of his life , the Aculeate Hymenoptera .
It cannot be doubted that he was specially drawn to these insects , for the reason he gave to his friend , the Rev. F. D. Morice ( 1 ) , as well as to the present writer , viz. , the importance , and , indeed , the necessity for the study of structure in the determination of the species .
And it was the surprising possibilities of the modification of structure which prompted a vividly remembered saying of his .
We were glancing through the boxes of his father 's collection at Oxford , and came upon a male of Synagris cornuta , L. , from Fernando Po , a specimen in which the enormous horn-like outgrowth , from the base of the mandible , found in many males of this wasp was developed to an extraordinary degree .
" Why , " said Edward Saunders , " it is a biological education to look at that insect !
" ( 'Report Brit. Assoc. , ' 1913 , p. 512 ) .
Then , too , there was the opportunity afforded by the abundant material at Reigate , and in the Grecian Hymenoptera , many of which were given to c 2 xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
him , collected by his father 's first cousin , Sir Sydney Smith Saunders , * Consul-General in Albania .
He took the greatest interest in Sir Sydney 's collection at Oxford , and one of his last pieces of work was a careful revision of the whole of the determinations .
It is unnecessary here to do more than refer to the great series of papers on the Palsearctic Aculeates .
Of " his grand work , ' The Hymenoptera-Aculeata of the British Isles ' ( 1896 ) , " it has been well said ( 1 ) that it " is one of the few without which no serious Hymeno-pterist thinks his working-library complete , and that its merits have been acknowledged in the warmest terms by everyone at home or abroad who is competent to form an opinion upon it .
" Edward Saunders realised the importance of writing simply so as to stimulate the interest of beginners , and with this object published in 1908 an introduction to the study of the British Wild Bees , Wasps , Ants , etc. It was a pleasure to his friends to arrange that his collections are bestowed , as he would have wished , where they are accessible to the student\#151 ; the Acuieates in the British Museum , the Hemiptera in the Hope Department of the Oxford University Museum .
He joined the Entomological Society in 1865 , was Treasurer 1880-1890 , and a Vice-President in five sessions , the last in 1907 .
It was a great disappointment to his friends , and indeed to the whole Society , that he would never consent to be nominated for the office of President\#151 ; an election that would have been received with pleasure and pride .
He felt that , in the state of his health , it was imprudent to bind himself to attend the evening meetings , although the present writer was led by some words used by Saunders , when he wras being strongly urged to accept the nomination , to think that he cherished the vain hope that he might at some future time become stronger and be able to consent .
He became F.L.S. in 1869 , F.RS .
in 1905 .
It was only by a wonderful power of concentration , the rigid economy of time , and the utmost use of his limited strength that one , whose daylight hours were nearly all of them occupied with the cares of business in the Iloyal Exchange , could do so much minute and accurate work and be able to give such constant and most efficient help to less experienced students .
He must have had great insight into potential qualities , for one at least of his correspondents was in the schoolboy stage of his career as a Hymeno-pterist when Edward Saunders began to devote to him a considerable share of his scanty time ( p. xvi ) .
With this power of concentration he did not require to be alone , but could work surrounded by his family , although it is a mistake to suppose that he had no study of his own ( 1 ) .
He was , however , rather cramped for want of space , for I remember his special request that specimens should be sent to him in small boxes , and not in the original large and heavy ones which belonged to his father and cousin .
* Died April 15 , 1884 .
* E. M. M. , ' 1883-4 , p. 278 ; 'Entomologist , ' 1884 , p. 117 .
Edward Saunders .
xv His day was planned as follows : He would sometimes work before breakfast , and always afterwards until it was time to start for Lloyd 's , and then many of his letters were written in the train .
He was generally back again by 5.30 , and after a cup of tea gave the rest of the evening , before and after dinner , to his scientific work .
His holidays , too , were entirely devoted to science , including here the out-of-door collecting and observing in which he was highly successful .
Edward Saunders was acutely critical , and at the same time sympathetic , kind-hearted , and generous\#151 ; an uncommon combination when the qualities are developed to the high level they reached in him .
He was deeply religious .
In good health he had unfailing spirits , and was quick to see the comic side of things .
He loved pictures , and music even more , and for a good concert he would even lay aside his scientific work .
In youth he was fond of games and sport , but sold his favourite gun in order to buy a good microscope ( 1 ) .
Later in life he played croquet well , and still later lawn tennis , until he was obliged by illness to give up all except the gentlest form of exercise .
One of his sons has recalled the dominant impressions of his father 's personality :\#151 ; " The point that struck me most about my father was his very deep religious feeling .
It was not quite the ordinary everyday religion , but it permeated his business and his whole life .
One of my earliest recollections of this was once walking across Horsell Common with him on a Sunday , and I picked up a Carabid beetle which he had never taken in the district before\#151 ; I forget which one it was but I remember it was very green\#151 ; and he would not let me take it as it was Sunday .
I remember being very sad as I knew he wanted it .
Next day he sent me out to see if I could find it again , but , of course , it had gone !
He would never collect any living thing on a Sunday .
" In public life he never shone as he was too retiring , but lie did a great deal of work quietly and unknown to most people .
He was not content until a Cottage Hospital was made for Woking .
He would superintend choir practices at the Church because the singing was not up to his ideas of worship .
He was a great opponent of dull services in the very Evangelical Church at Woking .
The parson and curates loved him , although he fought with them .
They also nearly always gave way to him in the end .
" Edward Saunders lived successively at lieigate , Wandsworth , and Bromley , settling finally at Woking in 1887 .
In 1872 he married Miss Mary Agnes Brown , of Wandsworth , who survives him , with eight of their twelve 'children .
One son , Charles , after being wounded at Loos , was killed on August 18 , 1916 .
To his children he was both kind and generous , although the standard he unconsciously set was sometimes rather alarming ; for remembering his own youth , but with characteristic modesty unable to recognise its exceptional promise and performance , he was led to expect a somewhat discouraging level of scientific attainment at an early age .
xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
A picture of Edward Saunders , as a young man , is recalled by his friend , Mr. G. A. J. Rothney : " I can see him now as he was in 1868 to 1870 , looking so very young and boyish , but standing up and reading learned papers at the Entomological Society on the Buprestidse , listened to and holding his own with the giants of those days\#151 ; Westwood , Lubbock , Bates , Wallace , McLachlan , Stainton , and Frederick Smith .
" For many years before his death , Edward Saunders had suffered from lung trouble , and had been gradually losing strength , and when , in March , 1909 , he was seized with influenza he never fully recovered .
" At the last there was extreme weakness , but happily no pain whatever , and his interest in scientific matters was keen and bright up to the very end .
" ( 1 ) I am glad to be able to quote , in concluding this brief memoir , the impressions of two Hymenopterist friends , one of about his own age , the other much younger .
The abiding memories of both are the same as my own and dwell on his unbounded kindness and generosity to those who needed his scientific help .
Mr. G. A. James Rothney remembers that Edward Saunders was glad to see a fellow naturalist , even when he called at Lloyd 's , and brought him out of that busy room to talk about ants and bees .
" I often thought , " he writes , " that he must have inwardly cursed me , when the red-coated official called his name , and he hurried out to find no business but an ant-man who wanted help ; but he never showed it , and was always smiling and genial in his welcome .
Like Frederick Smith , he had the gift of rapidly sketching a character or feature of a specimen on the back of an envelope or any scrap of paper .
In his home it was not difficult to see that he was loved by all , and was the friend and comrade of his sons as well as their father .
He was a good man in the highest sense , and in everything the soul of honour .
I never came away from a visit without feeling in every way the better for it .
I had a great admiration and respect , and I may say love for him .
He was the kindest helper and friend that any one could have .
" Hr .
R. C. L. Perkins writes :\#151 ; " It is rather remarkable that I never actually met Edward Saunders , though I corresponded with him continually for over 20 years !
Once when I had arranged to meet him , I rather unexpectedly and hurriedly left again for Hawaii .
Nevertheless I seem to have known him very well , for at some periods I think we must have written to each other almost weekly or at least once a fortnight .
" When I think of Edward Saunders it is always his kindness and generosity to beginners that first comes into my mind .
When I first began to collect and study Hymenoptera I was only a schoolboy , well acquainted already with Lspidoptera ; but to a Lepidopterist the change from his own group to such different things as bees and wasps naturally presents considerable difficulties at first .
As it happened several of Saunders ' nephews were at school with me at Merchant Taylors ' , and one of them kindly obtained the loan of a book or two for me .
In this way I got into correspondence with him .
He not Edward Saunders .
XVII only named many specimens for me , as a beginner , but sent me a copy of his * Synopsis ' and gave me many accurately named specimens of his own to facilitate study .
I should think no man was ever more generous\#151 ; both in giving specimens and assistance in naming .
The latter must have taken up an enormous amount of the time he could devote to Entomology , for I know that some Hymenopterists , who had not the gift of appreciating difficult specific characters , were in the habit of sending him the same species , year after year , for the purpose of getting these named wholesale .
" So far as his work on Hymenoptera is concerned , though this was not very extensive , it was of excellent quality .
In my opinion none of our Hymenopterists of the past can be considered in the same class , excepting only Haliday .
With the publication of the ' Synopsis ' and some of the papers of nearly the same date , our knowledge of that branch of British Hymenopterology , which had , since Kirby 's ' Monographia , ' lagged behind the best continental work , became comparable with the very best of the latter .
" Systematic entomologists are , or should be , notorious for their gross carelessness , but I should certainly consider Saunders an exception , or at least as a very slight offender , though I find that more than once in his letters to me he speaks of his great fault\#151 ; ' carelessness .
' Compared with most systematists he certainly had nothing to reproach himself with in this respect .
There is no doubt that he was a very clever and shrewd Hymenopterist\#151 ; excellent both in the field and study alike .
But his encouragement of the beginner and the help he was so ready to give to any one who asked it , however much it must have encroached upon his own time , always returns to my mind , when I think of him .
" The writer is indebted to the following obituary notices of Edward Saunders , as also to members of his family , to Dr. R. C. L. Perkins , and Mr. Rothney:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The Entomologist 's Monthly Magazine , ' 2nd series , vol. xxi , March , 1910 , p. 49 , with a portrait , by the Rev. F. D. Morice .
( 2 ) The British Bee Journal , ' April 7 , 1910 , p. 135 , by F. W. L. Sladen .
( 3 ) ' The Proceedings of the Linnean Society of London , ' Session 122 .
1909-10 , p. 94 , by the Rev. T. R. R. Stebbing , F.R.S. E. B. P. ROLAND TRIMEN , 1840-1916 .
Roland , the third son and fourth of the seven children of Richard and Marianne Esther Trimen , was born , October 29 , 1840 , at 3 , Park Place Villas , Paddington .
Memories of his father and of his own childhood were supplied by Roland Trimen to Sir William Thiselton-Dyer for the obituary ( 1 ) of Henry ( 1843-96 ) , the youngest of the five brothers .
Richard Trimen , whose " urbane address and manners of the old school " are recalled by Sir William , " traced his ancestry to a stock which , under similar names , exists both in Cornwall and Brittany .
" He was " a great lover of Nature , and an excellent observer ; he possessed , too , a keen artistic perception , and some ability in execution .
The two younger brothers were closely associated in their early bringing up .
They derived from their father , both by inheritance and example , an early delight in natural objects .
He continually encouraged them in their attempts to form collections of shells , insects , plants , fossils , etc. , often accompanying them in country excursions , and pointing out interesting animals and plants .
The elder brother remembers how , when it became necessary to restrict , in some definite direction , accumulations that were becoming unmanageable , it was solemnly decided that Henry was to occupy himself with plants , and Roland with insects .
" In spite of this necessary restriction of activity , Roland always retained his early love for plants and Henry for animals .
The family belonged to the " Catholic Apostolic Church " which has its Central Church in G-ordon Square , W.C. , Richard Trimen holding an important office in the Community .
Their mother had the most remarkable knowledge of the Bible\#151 ; her husband used to call her his " walking concordance " \#151 ; and it is very probable that her influence was largely responsible for the admirable literary style of the two brothers .
Sir Ray Lankester , who remembers her as " a very kind and charming old lady , " and first met the Trimen family at Eelixstow about 1859 , writes:\#151 ; " Roland and Henry were great collectors of butterflies and moths and I came upon them through a butterfly-collecting friend , the Rev. Herbert Bree-They taught me to ' set ' butterflies and to ' sugar/ and I enjoyed the sport , hut did not keep it up .
They were perfect adepts at it .
At their home in London , in Guilford Street , Russell Square , they had a beautiful first-class cabinet and splendid collections of British species .
It was at their house I first met Thiselton-Dyer who was and remained always a very intimate friend of Henry Trimen .
I , too , became a great friend of Henry , who was nearer in age to me ( a year or two older ) .
Roland was regarded by us as very clever and distinctly older .
Both he and Henry were full of fun and used to write comic plays and songs .
Henry and I often went to theatres together and acted in private theatricals at his house and his friends ' houses .
I think Roland must have gone to the Cape when I went up to Oxford .
I remember / SrC-^i \lt ; ~K Roland Trimen .
xix writing to him to ask if ' he could send me and he did so .
T do n't think I saw him more than two or three times after he returned to England , though I had formed a high opinion of his value as a Darwinian worker .
" Roland 's health was delicate and after four or five years at King 's College School , which he entered in 1853 , having been previously at a private school in Kottingdean , he was advised to take the voyage to the Cape .
The result was considered favourable , and he returned in 1860 to enter upon his thirty-five years in the Cape Civil Service .
On October 31 , 1872 , he was offered and in the following year entered upon the duties of Curator of the South African Museum in Cape Town , in succession to E. L. Layard .
During his twenty-three years ' tenure of this important position he was often , as he wrote to a friend in 1910 , driven to despair , " during the long series of cheese-paring years which struck the chill of poverty into one 's bones .
" Then too the time he could devote to science was greatly reduced by administrative and secretarial work , much of it outside the museum .
Tlius , to mention only a few of his activities , he was appointed Representative of Cape Colony at the Phylloxera Congress , meeting at Bordeaux in 1881 , and , in 1892 , a Member of the Committee to investigate and report on sea-fishing with a view to legislation .
But it was his membership of the Phylloxera Commission from 1886 , involving the inspection of vineyards in the hottest months of the year , that finally undermined his health and led to his retirement from the Curatorship and return to England in 1895 .
In spite of the fact that his resignation was caused by Government work quite outside his official duties , the full pension was not awarded .
At the same time the reception of a pension of any kind from the Cape Government rendered him ineligible for a Civil List pension at home .
Although , because of his splendid spirit and abounding humour , few would have known it , the last 21 years of his life were years of disappointment and straitened circumstances .
Roland Trimen was elected F.R.S. in 1883 , his brother Henry in 1888 .
He was President of the South African Philosophical Society in 1883 and 1884 , joined the Entomological Society of London in 1859 , and was , at his death , third of the Fellows in seniority .
He was President in 1897 and 1898 , choosing for his two anniversary addresses the subjects of " Mimicry " and " Seasonal Variation .
" In 1899 , during his residence at Oxford , the Hon. M.A. was conferred upon him by the University .
In 1910 he was awarded the Darwin Medal of the Royal Society .
In 1883 he married Miss Henrietta Blanch Bull , daughter of H. E. Boys Bull , of Calcutta .
They first met some years before in Cape Town , and not , as has been stated ( 5 ) , in Paris .
Trimen , when only 16 , began to record his observations on insects at Dorking , publishing in the first ( 1856 ) and later volumes of the " Entomologist 's Intelligencer .
" The geniality and humour , so characteristic of the man , were evident in these , his earliest writings ( 4 ) .
xx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Two years after the beginning of his residence at the Cape , he began the publication of ' Rhopalocera Africse Australis , a Catalogue of South African Butterflies ' ( London and Cape Town , 1862-66 ) , expanded in 1887 , with the assistance of Col. J. H. Bowker , into the classical monograph ' South African Butterflies ' ( 3 vols .
, London , 1887-89 ) .
This work , although mainly , was by no means solely , descriptive ; for it contains valuable introductory sections on Classification , Distribution , Sexual Differences , Habits , Protective Resemblance and Mimicry .
Under each of the species , too , Trimen records the whole life-history and habits so far as they were known at the time .
The literary grace which distinguishes all his writings is conspicuous in this great work , which must have cost its author immense labour .
But Trimen always felt a just pride in making his descriptions clear and readable as well as precise and accurate , and , when so many might have been used , in selecting the right word for every purpose .
And this , in so full and varied a language as English , must always mean immense care and pains , as well as natural gifts : must mean , in fact , the " damned hard writing " which , as an author is said to have assured an admirer of his style , is the only road to " ea^y reading .
" It is in large part a question of thoroughness , and Trimen was essentially thorough , in his work , in his correspondence , and in every relation of life .
In writing a brief account of a scientific man , and especially such a man as Roland Trimen , it is more essential to speak of what he was than of what he did .
What he did may be found fully catalogued in well-known works of reference , and will always abide in the memories of those who build upon the foundations he laid down .
So far as they are referred to here , his writings , being part of himself , will help to create the picture of what he was .
Roland Trimen had an impressive and most pleasing personality .
" Besides being a man of strikingly handsome appearance\#151 ; he might have sat for a bust of Olympian Zeus without the severity\#151 ; he ever maintained a grand simplicity and gentleness of nature , combined with a charm of manner , " which can never be forgotten by those who knew him ( 6 ) .
Although a man of great and varied gifts , he was always modest and unassuming .
Examples of his verses , both grave and humorous , may be read in Mr. Bethune-Baker 's excellent notice ( 5 ) , but his best work is of too intimate a nature to be made public .
The extent of his artistic powers would never be realised by a study of the illustrations , admirable as these are , contributed by his own pencil to his scientific works .
Few , even of his intimate friends , knew of the vigour and incisive humour of the cartoons in which he caricatured the political situations at the Cape , or of his power as an actor .
With his versatility and humour , and love of friendly intercourse , Trimen was the most delightful of companions .
Towards the end of his life , although weakened and depressed by illness , he never failed to revive and become his old self in the presence of his friends , and , when many were present\#151 ; it Roland Trxxi may have been in Common-room\#151 ; to attract men with widely different tastes and interests .
As I write this and think of those pleasant times , some of the experiences he described with such humour come back to me .
On one of his visits to a European Congress lie met a distinguished German astronomer , who , as soon as he realised Trimen 's position at the Cape , began a fervent entreaty , with the words:\#151 ; " Ach , mean frient , I am not what the world beliefs : the world knows me as an astronomer , but my heart is mit peetles !
" Trimen could not resist the appeal , and the " peetles " were sent .
The Perpetual Secretary of the French Academy was expected to visit London just about the time that Trimen returned from the Cape after his -election as an F.R.S. He was sitting quietly in the tea-room of the Royal Society , when one of the Officers suddenly hurried up and circled admiringly round him , with Ah !
Mon cher ami je suis enchante de vous voir !
" His blunt " What do you mean ?
I 'm Trimen , " was received with obvious disappointment and some annoyance .
Annoyance , too , was felt by a visitor who was terrified by the sight of a living Death 's Head Moth in the Curator 's Room at the South African Museum .
As he kept backing away , Trimen , with the harmless insect in his hand , followed him , and , as he still refused to be reassured , could not resist the temptation to give him an experimental proof\#151 ; by throwing it at him !
On another occasion the sight of the same object of superstitious dread in his hand stampeded a party of fifty or sixty Dutch men and women on their way to a " Nacht-Mahl " ( Lord 's Supper ) .
# On one occasion he went to see a friend in the Cape Town Post-office , and found him in the diamond strong-room .
His friend was called away , and there was Trimen alone , surrounded by little parcels\#151 ; a small pocketful would have meant comfort for life !
It was a humorous situation , and as such made its appeal to him .
Trimen 's own account of the meeting between the young German naturalist , Ii .
von Willemoes-Suhm , of the " Challenger , " and a member of the Council of the newly founded University of the Cape , has been quoted elsewhere , * but I repeat the conversation , for it is not devoid of significance even in these later years .
The " Challenger " was received with the warmest hospitality , so much so , indeed , that , as Trimen told me , the epoch-making discovery of the structure and synthetic position of Peripatus was only rendered possible by Moseley 's stern refusal of all invitations , in order that he might hunt for living examples of this extraordinary animal .
At a dinner given by the Governor , the Councillor remarked to the German:\#151 ; " You 'll be interested , perhaps , to learn that the Colony now possesses its own University .
" " Ah !
an University ; that is good !
Tell me , then , who are your Professors ?
" * ' John Yiriamu Jones and other Oxford Memories .
' Poulton , London , 1911 , pp. 24-26 .
xxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
" We have no Professors ; it 's an Examining University .
" " Wait !
Stop !
I do not nnderstand .
How can it be ?
No Professors " It is simply an Examining University , " replied the Councillor , with some asperity .
" So !
you then examine the students first , and you teach them afterwards !
What you call in English ' put the cart before the horse !
' Ach hut this is hellish !
" This last remark put a stop to any further talk between them during the rest of dinner .
But afterwards Willemoes-Suhm said to Trimen :\#151 ; " Is not ' hellish ' a good English word ?
" " It is certainly not very often used in polite society , and not exactly what we should call a ' drawing-room word , ' " replied Trimen .
" Ach !
That is strange ; for in German we say always ' hollisch ' this , or ' hollisch ' that ; it is a quite usual word .
Now I can see what made the old gentleman so angry ; but what I said was true , quite true !
" In any further reference to Trimen 's scientific career , I feel that his spirit will be best preserved by dwelling on the human personal side , and especially by giving his own impressions of the men he met and of their attitude towards him and his work .
He always felt that his friendship with Darwin , and the work he did as a young man under the inspiration of Darwin , were the influences to which , as a scientific man , he owed the deepest debt .
It was towards the close of 1859 , after his earliest visit to the Cape , that he first saw the illustrious naturalist\#151 ; twice on the same day in different departments of the British Museum .
The " Origin " had just come out , on November 24 , and feelings were high , so much so indeed that Trimen was quite unable to get the introduction he longed for , but received instead a double warning against " the dangerous doctrines so seductively set forth by this most eminent but mistaken naturalist .
" " Years afterwards , " he wrote , " when I had reached the honour of correspondence and personal acquaintance with Mr. Darwin , I gave him some amusement by my account of the impressive manner in which , on the first day of my seeing him , I had been warned by two naturalists , much my seniors , , to give him a wide berth " ( 2 ) .
The first edition of the ' Fertilisation of Orchids , ' published early in 1862 , at once stimulated Trimen to study these flowers at the Cape , and in less than two years he had accumulated notes and drawings which he sent to Darwin .
The reply , written at Down on January 31 , 1863 , was the first of a long series of letters which illustrate , to use Trimen 's words , " one of the most charming and attractive sides of Darwin 's character\#151 ; the gracious and glad welcome and recognition he never failed to extend to everyone who even in the slightest degree endeavoured to render some aid in his researches " ( 2 ) .
From the very first , Trimen was urged to publish on his own account , and very soon Darwin wrote:\#151 ; " I felt so sorry that such excellent work should remain locked up for an Roland Trimen .
XXlll indefinite period in my portfolio , that you have made me break a solemn vow , and I have drawn up from your notes ( and selected four figures for woodcuts ) an account for Linnean Society .
I have enlarged a little and explained and introduced a few remarks . . . .
The title is \#171 ; On the Fertilisation of Disco gmndiflora , by Roland Trimen , Esq. , of the Colon .
Off .
, C. Town : drawn up from notes and drawings sent to C. Darwin , Esq. ' I hope that you will approve of this , and not object to anything in the little paper."* The importance of this correspondence , beginning when Trimen was not much over twenty-two , and continued for nearly ten years , has already been emphasised .
His whole outlook upon nature was influenced not so much by the facts as by the light in which they were approached .
And yet the facts were important and varied , ranging from the Cape orchids , insect and bird visitors to various flowers , and heterostyled flowers , through many of the subjects treated in " The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex , " to the geographical distribution of beetles .
The Darwin Medal was awarded to Trimen partly in consideration of his work in the establishment and illustration of the theory of Mimicry , and partly because of the assistance he had rendered to Darwin by investigating the Cape orchids .
When the award was made known he wrote to a friend :\#151 ; " Nothing has given me such pleasure since my election to R.S. in 1883 . . . .
On October 29 I completed my 70th year , and was feeling somewhat old and depressed ; but this really noble gift comes like a birthday one , and is quite rejuvenating !
" And two years later he wrote : " At this time of year I think and shall always think of the Darwin Medal award .
" A special resolution of congratulation was unanimously passed by the Entomological Society , and naturalists generally would agree with the opinion expressed by Sir William Thiselton-Dyer , in a letter to the present writer , that the award was " essentially typical of the original idea , i.e. , thoroughly Darwinian , and such as would have greatly pleased Darwin himself .
" The world has now lost the last of the six great naturalists who laid the foundations of the study of insect Mimicry\#151 ; Charles Darwin , H. W. Bates , Fritz Muller , A. R. Wallace , Raphael Meldola , Roland Trimen .
It was in this subject that Trimen 's greatest scientific discovery was made \#151 ; the unravelling of the tangled relationships of Papilio dardctnus or merope , as it was then called , and the interpretation of the widely different female forms on the theory of Mimicry .
The discovery , indirectly due to Darwin , directly to Bates and Wallace , was at first received with indignation and ridicule , but Trimen lived to see all the forms he disentangled , as well as others then unknown , bred from the eggs laid by a single female , and to * ' Journ. Proc. Linu .
Soc. Bot. , ' vol. 7 , p. 144 ( 1863 ) .
This and Trimen 's further investigations on the Cape orchids are fully recognised in the second edition ( 1877 ) of Darwin 's book .
xxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
see this repeated in far distant localities where the forms differed in correspondence with their local models .
A few years before his death Trimen was persuaded to write the following hitherto unpublished memories of his investigations and the impatience with which they were received by a naturalist of the old school:\#151 ; " Towards the end of 1867 I was in London , working at a paper* which I had in preparation 'On Mimetic Analogies among African Butterflies/ Earlier in the same year I had enjoyed some delightful months of collecting and observing in Natal , and it was some of the material thus obtained that I was comparing with the tropical African forms in the British Museum , the Oxford University Museum , and various private collections .
I was therefore only too glad to accept a very kind invitation from Mr. W. C. Hewitson to stay a few days with him at Oatlands , and inspect his celebrated collection of the butterflies of the world .
" Most hospitably was I entertained , and unlimited access to the cabinets was accorded me , My knowledge of the South African species , after eight years ' collecting and study of them , was of service to my host in the determination of various little known or closely-allied forms\#151 ; and this he recognised and welcomed .
" But my mind was full of the mimetic relations of butterflies , and of my quite recent acquaintance with them in life ; I was ardent and enthusiastic on this fascinating theme ; and although I had gathered from Mr. Hewitson 's publications\#151 ; and , indeed , had been told by several entomologists\#151 ; that he took little more than a ' mere collector 's ' view of the insects which he amassed and illustrated so assiduously , I could not refrain from every now and then pointing out some of the more striking instances as I came across them in his cabinet drawers .
Though Mr. Hewitson repeatedly scouted and even ridiculed the idea of mimicry , he was not , as far as I can remember , really much moved until I came to the three all different Danaine-imitating females of the southern form of Pap .
dardanus , then known as P. What seemed actually to disturb him most was my venturing to suggest that , although the species-identity of all four had not been absolutely proved , this was so sure a case that he would be quite safe in at once placing the three females cenea , trophonius , and hippocoon\#151 ; then widely separated from their proper mate by a good many drawers full of other Papilios\#151 ; with P. merope .
This was too much for his equanimity ; and he very decidedly expressed his opinion that my notion was altogether fantastic and nonsensical .
" I was anxious to avoid occasioning any irritation to one so much my senior , and so truly devoted to artistic illustration of the Rhopalocera , and accordingly said no more just at the time .
But , before leaving , I took an opportunity of remarking how often the accurate mimicry of a Danaine or Acreeine by species belonging to entirely distinct groups led to the erroneous * Read March 5 , 1868 , published in 1869 in Part III of * Trans. Linn. Soc. , ' vol. 26 , p. 497 .
The volume was not completed till the following year , and is therefore dated 1870 .
Roland Trimen .
xxv location in collections of a raimicker with the family or genus , or even sometimes the actual species of the mimicked form .
He was not at all disposed to admit this ; so I told him that I had noted a case in his own collection_ not of such great exactness as those above mentioned , but so near in the common likeness that what was unquestionably a Lycaenid had been placed among the Pierinae and labelled " Pieris " He showed the greatest annoyance at this , declaring that I was absolutely mistaken , nor would he allow me to point out to him the Lycsenid structure of erastus .
When I a little pressed him to examine the feet of this butterfly , he rose from his drawing-table , came across to the cabinet I was inspecting , and quite indignantly put an end to the discussion by pushing the drawer back into its place !
" All the same , we had quite a friendly parting ; and , six years later , in a part of his ' Exotic Butterflies/ published in October , 1873 , he quietly removed to the Lycsenid genus Liptena the erst misplaced ' ' erastus , later on referred by Kirby to his genus Gitrinophila.\#151 ; B. T. , 28-vi-1912 .
" Trimen 's youth lay in days when , as I have been told , one met the scent of the Hampstead hayfields in Gower Street , and it seems fitting that , in such a setting , in an atmosphere so remote , he once saw , and ever afterwards preserved the memory of , that aloof , secretive figure , William John Burehell , greatest of African travellers and writers .
And so , about fifty years later , he drew for me one of the very few pictures of that great man:\#151 ; After dwelling in admiration upon the " singular distinction " of Burchell 's ' Travels in the Interior of South Africa/ its " comprehensive and many-sided record of faithful observation in every branch of natural history , " its " rare qualities of sagacity , insight , and width of grasp , " and its " style of sustained dignity and lucidity , " Trimen continued:\#151 ; " When I first visited South Africa , in 1858 , I was not a stranger to this notable book , having consulted it before leaving England ; and during my long residence at the Cape I found it of the greatest value .
My dear friend , the late Mr. Charles A. Eairbridge\#151 ; a founder and trustee of the South African Museum , possessor of the finest private library in South Africa , and of a wide and critical knowledge of English literature\#151 ; was an absolute enthusiast as to the merits of Burchell , whom he pronounced to stand alone in the combination of scientific and literary merit .
" I was so fortunate as to have seen Burchell on one occasion .
It was in the Insect Room of the Zoological Department of the British Museum , where ( towards the close of the year 1857 ) I was engaged in noting what Lepidoptera were then known to inhabit South Africa , so as to have some guide respecting the species I might look out for on my approaching visit to * * The female is a good mimic of a common type of pattern in the African Pierine genus Mylothris .
The under surface of the wings of both model and mimic is white or creamy , with a mar ginal black beading , and an orange flush at the base\#151 ; just where it would appear in the resting position .
xxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
that country .
The Insect Boom was then in charge of Mr. Adam White , most amiable and obliging of curators , and I was , as usual , consulting him on all sorts of points when an old , rather stooping , white-haired man came quietly into the room and asked the attendant if he could see Mr. White .
As the visitor approached and entered the fuller light from the window near which I was sitting , I was struck with the character in his face , which , still handsome , was marked with dignity and refinement , but was singularly cold and hard in expression .
White rose to receive him , but the stranger did not return his smile , and seemed to say ' Good morning ' as a necessary formality only , proceeding to ask White to show him some group of insects .
The two then went to a distant cabinet , where the visitor made some notes , but very soon left .
White came back to his seat and presently asked me if I knew who it was that had called , adding immediately that it was none other than Mr. Burchell , the great South African traveller and naturalist .
" ' Ah , sir/ he went on ( this was his usual way of beginning a sentence ) , ' a great man indeed , with many gifts and of great learning , but terribly soured .
I fear he 'll never get better of it now .
It is a pity indeed to have that proud and unforgiving spirit/ and so forth .
White then , with bated breath and intimation that what he said was confidential , told me that Burchell had for long cherished a bitter grievance against the Trustees of the Museum , who had ( according to his view ) done him irreparable wrong by their neglect of certain of his zoological collections which had been taken into their charge , and so allowing the specimens to be destroyed by insects and damp .
I was quite a youth at the time , and this moving tale made a great impression on my mind , and invested Burchell 's personality with a certain grimness which I could not forget .
" After his return from the Cape in 1895 Trimen experimented with many places in the London district in the hope of finding a neighbourhood that would suit his health .
Twice he lived at Oxford\#151 ; the second time for three years ( 1907-1910 ) .
He felt the strain and expense of the numerous removals and especially the anxiety of taking with him his collection of African butterflies , now in the possession of Mr. J. J. Joicey at the Hill Museum , Witley .
In the early summer of 1916 his health was evidently failing , and on July 4 he entered Dr. Chipperfield 's nursing home at Epsom , where he gradually sank and died on July 25 .
I saw him for the last time on June 30 .
He had fallen down a few weeks earlier , having tripped over a grating , and looked very ill and depressed ; but he was cheered , as he wrote in his diary , at the sight of an old friend and by hearing of an interesting new observation* on his old favourite Papilio dardanus .
It had just been discovered that males from the island of Fernando Po differ in certain respects from those on the opposite West African Coast , but resemble the males of the East Coast * * i Proc. Ent .
Soc. Land./ 1916 , p. xciii .
Roland Trimen .
xxvii * and of Madagascar .
The name of the butterfly awoke his interest directly , but , as soon as he heard of the island , his face lighted up in a flash .
I knew well what was in his mind .
His thoughts had gone back to Cape Town and to a late sitting of Parliament , where a member quoted some lines from , so he said , Edgar Allan Poe .
" I am sorry to detain the House , " said John X. Merriman , " but really I know Poe 's works pretty well and I feel confident that the lines quoted by the Hon. Member are not to be found in them .
" " I apologise to the House , " was the reply , " the lines were not by Edgar Allan Poe , but by his brother Fernando Po !
" The scattered impressions and incidents here recalled are for the most part gathered from my memories of a dear friend , but much is owing to the writers of the following obituary notices , to Trimen 's elder brother Mr. Edward Trimen , and , above all , to his wife .
On summer days the butterflies he loved so well , attracted by the purple flowers of a Buddleia , hover over his grave on the heights of Highgate , and all who knew Poland Trimen will feel the fitness of the inscription under his name on the plain grey stone\#151 ; " The Well-Beloved .
" 1 .
" Henry Trimen , 1843-1896 , " 'Proc .
Boy .
Soc. , ' vol. 75 , p. 161 , 1905 , by Sir William T. Thiselton-Dyer .
2 .
' Charles Darwin and the Origin of Species , ' London , 1909 , by E. B. Poulton .
'Letters from Charles Darwin to Poland Trimen , ' in , pp. 213-246 .
See also p. 28 , n. 2 .
3 .
'Nature , ' vol. 97 , August 10 , 1916 , p. 485 , by E. B. Poulton .
4 .
'Entomologist 's Monthly Magazine , ' vol. 52 , September , 1916 , p. 209 , by J. J. Walker .
5 .
' Entomologist 's Record , ' vol. 28 , October 15 , 1916 , p. 231 , by G. T. Bethune-Baker .
6 .
' Entomologist , ' vol. 49 , October , 1916 , p. 240 , by H. Rowland-Brown .
7 .
' Proceedings of the Linnean Society of London , ' 129th Session , October , 1917 , p. 76 , by E. B. Poulton .
E. B. P. VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. d XXV111 THOMAS GREGOR BRODIE , 1866-1916 .
The death of Prof. Brodie occurred on Sunday , August 20,1916 .
His sudden end was totally unexpected by his friends .
He was subject to attacks of gout , and he experienced one which was not of a severe character during the week preceding his death , but sitting up in bed on the Sunday morning and feeling better , he was seized with heart failure and expired within a few minutes .
He was the second son of the late Alexander Brodie , Vicar of Grandborough , and was born at Northampton in 1866 , so when he died he was just over 50 years of age , in the prime of life , and at the zenith of his intellectual power .
The tragedy is intensified , for the victim was one of the most original and gifted of our company of Physiologists .
He received his education at King 's College School , whence he proceeded to St. John 's College , Cambridge , but after being there a year or so he decided to make medicine his career , and chose King 's College , London , as his school .
There and at King 's College Hospital he was one of a band of exceptionally brilliant students , several of whom are now on the staff of that hospital , and among them Brodie was the leading spirit in both work and play .
He carried off the principal prizes the College had to offer , and would have proved eminently successful in any branch of medicine he had chosen to take up .
His choice , however , fell on Physiology , and after he had taken his M.D. at the University of London , he was appointed Principal Assistant to the Professor of that subject in King 's College in 1890 .
He subsequently became Senior Demonstrator at the London Hospital , a post which he soon relin-guished for the Lectureship in Physiology at St. Thomas 's Hospital to which he was elected when Dr. Sherrington became Professor at Liverpool .
A few years after this he received the Directorship of the Laboratories of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons on the Embankment .
He , therefore , gave up active teaching and his new post was one which specially suited his capabilities and temperament .
Whilst there he gathered round him a band of workers whom he inspired with his energy and contagious enthusiasm , and the research work issuing from his laboratory was not only large in quantity but of the highest quality and value .
A few years later a fit of economy seized the Royal Colleges , and they decided to give up this valuable but expensive branch of activity , so that Brodie for a time was without a post .
This did not last long , for within a few months he received , almost simultaneously three new appointments , viz.:\#151 ; The Professorship of Physiology at the Royal Veterinary College , the Lectureship on the same subject at the London School of Medicine for Women , and the office of Professor-Superintendent of the Brown Institution under the University of London .
This pluralism was necessary , for all posts were badly paid , and even a combination of any two would have been insufficient to provide a living wage .
Thomas Gregor Brodie .
xx'ix Hiis is an illustration of the way scientific workers are rewarded in this country .
But his determination and energy carried him through ; he performed his duties with success in all , and original researches continued in spite of his othci duties to issue from his laboratories , which had been carried out by himself and his colleagues .
But though his energy was untiring , it was a dog s life that he led , and it was his undaunted spirit alone which overcame his physical fatigue .
In 1904 he received his F.R.S. , and until 1908 he continued in the unsatisfactory position of successfully serving three masters .
In the last-named year , he received an offer of the Chair of Physiology in Toronto University , its previous occupant , Prof. Macallum , having decided to devote his work to Biochemistry .
In the end Brodie accepted the invitation and held this Professorship until his death .
For domestic reasons the most important of which was the education of his sons , he continued to keep on his London house , and here ( in Hampstead ) he spent the long vacations which Canadian Professors enjoy .
Not that he took much real holiday , for research work continued to occupy his time .
The Toronto Professorship was no sinecure ; in addition to his heavy teaching responsibilities , he had to organise his laboratory , and he made the bare bones of the new buildings placed at his disposal live , and his laboratory blossomed into one of the most complete in the world .
It was replete with every modern convenience and the generosity of the University and of the Canadian Government enabled him to make its equipment second to none .
For the first time in his life he was freed from niggling considerations of sparing expense , and his famous laboratory still lives as a monument to his wise use of public money .
In 1915 , he came over here in a different capacity , namely , as a Captain in the Canadian Medical Service , and here his ability for original thought and work proved invaluable .
In this country his work was carried out at the London School of Medicine for Women , at the Endell Street Hospital , and later at the Military Hospital , Ramsgate , where also he worked in the summer of 1916 , the date of his death .
Respiratory changes in disease and injury formed his magnum opus in this connection , also the means of re-educating maimed men to enable them to resume a useful life .
His published papers make a long list , and their subjects embrace nearly every branch of physiological science .
But his main bent , as was foreshadowed by his first paper on the ' Elasticity of Muscle , ' was physical .
He will , perhaps , be best remembered for his epoch-marking work on the Kidney , and his views on the function of the Glomeruli formed the subject of his Croonian Lecture delivered before the Royal Society .
But whatever his subject , his great originality was his most marked characteristic , and his never-failing resourcefulness in overcoming difficulties by the use of new methods and apparatus made his name famous .
He published also a \#163 ; Textbook of Experimental Physiology , ' which still remains a standard and a pattern to his successors in the book-making line .
He was not a ready writer , but all he wrote was a model of care and thoughtfulness .
He made xxx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
no pretension of being an orator , but again all he said was the result of thoughtful carefulness .
He succeeded in arousing the interest of his listeners , and the respect and affection of his students and colleagues .
His incisive manner compelled attention to his lucid expositions .
As a friend , words fail to do him justice .
He was a friend worth having , loyal , affectionate , bright , and delightful in every sense .
Outside of his profession and professional work he had many interests .
He was a keen student of literature and collector of books .
In all sports , but especially golf , he was as keen as a boy .
He was never happier than when spending a day bicycling with his friends\#151 ; a leader in all their fun and gaiety , or in teaching his sons the rudiments of carpentering .
He had been married 22 years ; his widow and three fine sons live to mourn his loss .
His funeral took place at Hampstead on August 23 , 1916 , and this last sad ceremony was carried out with full military honours .
It was attended by representatives of the Canadian Army , of the University of Toropto , of the various institutions in London with which he was or had been connected , of the Eoyal Society , and other public bodies .
Among those who gathered round the graveside were a host of personal relations and friends , many of whom hurried back from their summer holiday to pay him this last tribute of respect .
The scene was a memorable one , and there were but few dry eyes when the bugles sounded " The Last Post .
" Owing to misunderstandings , the publication of this obituary notice has been long delayed .
But even after a lapse of nearly four years , the sense of personal loss is as great as ever ; whilst in the scientific world , the gap has never been quite filled up .
The circumstances of his strenuous life of struggle betrays that indifference to the work of science which our country has been ever wont to exhibit .
The recent war has brought home to the nation a lesson which ought to be taken to heart , and not forgotten now that peace , which has its troubles too , is once more with us .
These few lines tell briefly the story of a man with exceptional powers and brilliant gifts who was unable , nevertheless , to obtain in his native land a position and a competence worthy of his greatness .
W. D. H. XXXI HORACE BOLINGBROKE WOODWARD , 1848\#151 ; 1914 .
Ihe subject of this notice was the third of a generation of geologists , his father being Samuel P. Woodward , the well-known naturalist ' and palaeontologist of the British Museum , and his grandfather Samuel Woodward , one of the early writers on the geology of Norfolk , to the knowledge of which the grandson was destined to add so much .
Born in London on August 20 , 1848 , Woodward was educated at a private school ; but his geologic education was largely evolved , as in the case of many other men , during his work on the Geological Survey .
He married Miss Alice Jennings in 1873 , and lost her in 1902 .
They have left but one daughter .
The last few years of his life were marred by serious illness , but this did not prevent him from pretty constant activity in the work of writing ; indeed his industry was marvellous .
He bore his long illness with fortitude , maintaining a cheerful spirit to the last , He died at Croydon on February 6 1914 .
Woodward spent the greater part of his life on the Geological Survey , on which he served for 41 years , adding greatly to its reputation , and gaining the esteem and affection of his colleagues .
He was appointed Assistant Geologist in July , 1867 , promoted to Geologist in January , 1875 , and became Resident Geologist , in London , in December , 1894 .
He was promoted to District Surveyor two years later , was made Acting Director for England and Wales in July , 1899 , and had his final promotion to Assistant Director in April , 1901 , which post he held until his retirement on the last day of 1908 .
His field-work on the Survey was of a varied kind , chiefly amongst formations of Pleistocene , Pliocene and Jurassic age .
He spent much time in Somerset ( including the coal-field ) and neighbouring counties .
He took part in the Drift-mapping of the country around London ; he had a long experience of Norfolk ( the county of his grandfather , Samuel Woodward ) ; and he had to examine the many counties of central and southern England in which Jurassic beds occur ( for the preparation of his great Memoir on those beds ) , besides which he also did work on rocks of that age in Scotland .
As Assistant Director he had of course to deal with all the formations of England and Wales , in superintending the work of the staff .
His connection with the Geological Society was a long one .
He was appointed Assistant in 1863 , and was elected a Fellow in 1868 .
He served on the Council for several years , and was a Vice-President in 1904-6 ; but bad health in later years prevented him from taking part in the affairs of the Society .
The Council awarded him the Murchison Fund in 1885 , the Murchison Medal in 1897 , and the Wollaston Medal ( its highest honour ) in 1909 .
He was President of the Geologists ' Association for a year ( 1893-4 ) ; but his official duties hindered him from continuing to hold that VOL. xci.\#151 ; B. e xxxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
office into the usual second year .
During his stay in Norfolk he was President of the Norwich Geological Society and of the Norfolk Naturalists ' Society , as well as of the local Science Gossip Club .
In 1896 he was elected into the Royal Society .
Of Woodward 's many works one may select three hooks , of different kinds , as sure to be an enduring monument of his geologic ability in various ways .
The first is an official memoir , vols .
iii-v , of ' The Jurassic Rocks of Britain , ' published in 1893-5 , which gives a detailed description of a great group of geologic formations , based on his own careful examination , coupled with an exhaustive knowledge of the works of other observers .
The second was written for one of our learned societies .
' The History of the Geological Society of London , ' published in 1907 , is a fine addition to the literature and history of geology , as evidenced by the progress of the senior geologic society of the world .
The third was a private venture , namely , ' The Geology of England and Wales , ' first published as a comparatively small book .
The second and greatly enlarged edition ( practically a new book ) , issued in 1887 and long out of print , shows a marvellous acquaintance with the work of geologists in the country with which it is concerned , as well as great power in codifying , so to speak , the many branches of that work , so as to give a general view of all the rocks of the kingdom , with fitting details , and with references to the sources of original work .
This book is greatly valued not only by geologists but also by engineers or others who are concerned with the practical application of geology .
These three books show great industry , widespread knowledge , and the gift of doing exactly what was wanted .
The Geological Survey was fully justified in entrusting one of its most important memoirs to Woodward .
The Council of the Geological Society was also justified in getting him to undertake the arduous task of writing the history of the Society .
Woodward himself was justified in undertaking the difficult problem of producing a book that would epitomize the geologic record of England and Wales .
Besides these larger books he was also the author of several others : ' Memorial of John Gunn , ' which is a contribution to the geology of Norfolk ( 1891 ) ; The Geology of Water-Supply ' ( 1910 ) ; The Geology of Soils and Substrata ' ( 1912 ) ; and a short ' History of Geology ' ( 1911 ) .
He was also author or part author of many-geological survey memoirs on various districts , notably on the East Somerset and Bristol coal-fields ( 1876 ) , and on the country around Norwich ( 1881 ) ; and of course also of many sheets of the map .
The later editions of Stanford 's ' Geological Atlas of Great Britain and Ireland , ' making it an indispensable work to students of the geology of these islands , was edited by him , and he was also an assistant editor of the ' Geological Magazine .
' Finally he contributed many papers , addresses , etc. , to many scientific journals , and his name is prominent amongst those who have done much for the geology of his native land .
W. W. XXXlll JAMES GEIKIE , 1839\#151 ; 1915 .
James Geikie was born in Edinburgh in 1839 , and educated partly at a private school , partly at the High School and the University of his native city .
After leaving school he served an apprenticeship for several years to Mr. Constable , the printer , but the strain and drudgery of the work compelled him eventually to terminate the engagement .
From his early days he showed his liking for nature study during his leisure hours and holiday rambles in butterfly hunting , collecting fossils , examining drift sections , and in trying to interpret the records of the rocks , so well displayed in the crags and ravines in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh .
He mind was clearly bent in following natural science as a career in life , and , in 1861 , he fortunately obtained an appointment on the staff of the Geological Survey .
His colleagues at that time in Scotland were H. H. Howell , Archibald Geikie , John Young , and B. 1ST .
Peach .
During his service of twenty-one years he mapped large areas of the Scottish coal-fields , portions of the Older Palaeozoic formations of the Southern Uplands and the Cheviots , together with tracts of Old Red Sandstone and the metamorphic rocks of the Highlands in the counties of Perth and Forfar .
His work in the field gave him a thorough grasp of the structure of the Scottish coal-fields , which naturally led him to take a keen interest in tectonics .
The most striking feature in his scientific career is the influence which he exercised on the development of glacial geology .
His researches in this department stimulated enquiry and aroused keen opposition .
He was recognised as one of the foremost leaders of a distinct school of glacial geology .
" When James Geikie began to map the superficial deposits in 1861 , the early views of Lyell , Darwin , de la Beche , and Murchison , that the transported blocks , stony clays , sands and gravels had been the work of floating ice , were widely accepted , although Agassiz , as a result of his visit to this country in 1840 , had demonstrated that they were due to the action of land ice and glaciers .
The land ice theory had been adopted and confirmed by Buckland , Robert Chambers , Andrew Ramsay , Archibald Geikie , and T. F. Jamieson .
The rival theories led James Geikie to concentrate his attention on working out the history of these deposits .
It was a matter of great gratification to him that he spent the first two years of his official life in surveying the boulder clays , sands , gravels and peat in those areas where only the solid geology had been shown on the maps .
It gave him excellent opportunities of studying the distribution , the characteristic features , and the relation of these materials to the solid rocks underneath .
As the work proceeded , he evolved certain ideas regarding oscillations of climate in Pleistocene time , based on the succession of boulder clays , with intercalations xxxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
of sand , gravel , and peat , and on the Cave deposits and Paleolithic gravels in the south of England .
In 1867 , James Geikie 's views were strengthened by his contact with James Croll , who had been appointed Secretary to the Scottish Staff of the Geological Survey under the Directorship of Sir Archibald Geikie .
Croll 's memoir on the ' Physical Causes of Changes of Climate during the Glacial Epoch ' had attracted the notice of geologists , astronomers , and physicists .
Accepting his theory , it followed that the Glacial Epoch must have consisted of a succession of cold and warm periods , the warm periods of one hemisphere corresponding with the cold periods of the other .
The field evidence , as interpreted by James Geikie , seemed to harmonise with the results of Croll 's speculative researches .
The writer of this notice has a vivid recollection of the keen discussions bearing upon glacial questions which took place in the Edinburgh Survey Office for several years after 1867 .
Croll 's commanding personality had a considerable influence on the development of James Geikie 's views .
An outline of James Geikie 's researches first appeared in a series of articles in the ' Geological Magazine , ' but the author lost no time in expanding those articles and presenting the evidence in his volume The Great Ice Age , ' published in 1874 This volume at once arrested the attention of geologists all over the globe .
For the first time it gave a systematic account of the Glacial Epoch , with special reference to its changes of climate .
It furnished a detailed description of the glacial and post-glacial deposits in Scotland , which was followed by a summary of the evidence then available regarding the relics of post-Tertiary time in England , Ireland , Scandinavia , Switzerland , and North America .
Special emphasis was laid on the palaeontological evidence indicating interglacial mild conditions amongst the oldest glacial deposits .
The peculiar assemblage of northern and southern forms in the Palaeolithic gravels and Cave deposits in England was attributed to oscillations of climate and not to seasonal migrations .
With regard to the age of the Palaeolithic deposits it was maintained that they were either pre-glacial or inter-glacial , and not post-glacial .
The second edition of The Great Ice Age , ' which appeared in 1877 , the volume on ' Prehistoric Europe ' ( 1880 ) , the third edition of ' The Great Ice Age ( 1894 ) , and the Munro Lectures on ' The Antiquity of Man in Europe ' ( 1914 ) , mark successive stages in the evolution of James Geikie 's views .
The distinctive feature of the last of these volumes was the correlation of his series of inter-glacial periods with the culture stages of Paleolithic and Neolithic man .
His great aim was to keep himself abreast of the increasing volume of research in glacial geology , the results of which were communicated to him by investigators from far and near .
From time to time he modified his opinions regarding the interpretation of particular details in the history of the period .
But the fundamental points of his teaching , that the Ice Age was characterised by a succession of cold and genial periods , and that man then lived in Europe , were never abandoned by him .
James Geikie .
xxxv The views advanced by James Geikie regarding climatic changes in Pleistocene time have been adopted by many investigators in Europe and America .
Eeference might be made to the elaborate investigations of Penck and Bruckner indicating four glaciations of the Alps , separated by inter-glacial periods .
His classification of glacial and inter-glacial periods has been subjected to severe criticism .
Great diversity of opinion still exists regarding the interpretation of many glacial phenomena , the correlation of deposits in widely separated regions , and the sequence of conditions .
But sufficient palaeontological evidence has been obtained to establish the general principle of oscillations of climate in the Glacial Epoch , though the number of inter-glacial periods may remain a subject of keen controversy .
In 1882 , ou the promotion of his brother , Sir Archibald Geikie , to the post of Director-General of the Geological Surveys of the United Kingdom , he was appointed to the Chair of Geology and Mineralogy in the University of Edinburgh .
During his tenure of the Professorship he succeeded in establishing a lectureship in Petrology , a lectureship in Palaeontology , and a museum collection for teaching purposes .
By the encouragement of research in his laboratory and in the field , he sent forth students who have made important contributions to geology and who hold prominent positions at home and abroad .
As an administrator within the University he was equally successful , for when the Science Faculty was established in 1894 he was appointed the first Dean\#151 ; a position which he held for nineteen years .
In 1884 he took a prominent part in the foundation of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society , which has achieved remarkable success .
He was one of the first vice-presidents , and he held this office till his death , except during his occupancy of the presidential chair , from 1904 to 1910 .
In 1888 he became honorary editor of the Society 's magazine , and contributed articles to its pages .
On his retirement from the presidentship he was presented with his portrait , in recognition of his devoted service .
His power as a clear expounder is shown in the production of other volumes in addition to those already mentioned .
In 1898 he issued a volume on 'Earth Sculpture , or the Origin of Land Forms ' ; in 1913 , a work on 'Mountains , their Origin , Growth , and Decay ' ; in 1898 , a text-book on ' Structural and Field Geology , ' which passed through three editions .
Among the honours which fell to him in recognition of his scientific researches , the following may be mentioned : the Fellowship of the Royal Society , 1875 ; the Presidentship of the Royal Society , Edinburgh , in succession to Sir William Turner , 1913 ; the Mackdougall-Brisbane Medal , awarded by the Royal Society , Edinburgh ; the Murchison Medal , by the Geological Society ; the Gold Medal , by the Royal Scottish Geographical Society .
J. H. XXXVI GUSTAF MAGNUS RETZIUS , 1842-1919 .
Gustaf Retzius , who died on July 21 , 1919 , was the son of Anders Retzius , well known as an anatomist and anthropologist .
He was born October 17 , 1842 .
He first became known as a histologist , from the publication of a joint monograph , written in conjunction with Axel Key , on the structure and arrangement of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord .
Somewhat later , viz. , in 1872 , at the age of 30 , he issued the first instalment of a series of important works on the auditory organ of Yertebrata , " Das Gehorlabyrinth der Knochenfische .
" Both this and those which followed contain a wealth of detail regarding the minute structure of the organ of hearing in all classes of Yertebrata , and include a much more precise description of the human cochlea than had hitherto been furnished .
They were published in folio form under the title " Das Gehororgan der Wirbel-thiere .
" It may be confidently stated that , if the fame of Gustaf Retzius rested on his works on the auditory organ alone , it would have been established upon an enduring basis .
He was , however , in no way inclined to rest upon the laurels thus earned , and was fortunate to find in the newly-described methylene-blue method of Ehrlich , and chromate of silver method of Golgi , invaluable means wherewith to pursue investigations upon the nervous system , which from now on largely occupied his attention .
In this pursuit he by no means restricted himself to vertebrates , but employed , for the elucidation of his subject , material derived from every description of animal\#151 ; especially annelids , molluscs , and crustaceans .
He lost no opportunity which presented itself of obtaining material for his work ; the writer of this notice well remembers meeting him one morning in Rome on the Palatine Hill , combining archaeological studies with a search for scorpions !
The numerous and important histological observations which Retzius found time to make after the publication of his monographs on the organ of hearing were for the most part issued to the world , not by the ordinary channel of journals or transactions of learned societies , but collected in separate folio volumes , replete with illustrations ; these were published annually during many years under the title " Biologische Untersuchungen .
" This procedure was only possible owing to the fact that he had ample private means , a circumstance which also enabled him to present the successive volumes , as they appeared , to his friends and colleagues .
The Nervous System of Crustacea was treated of in a separate monograph ( 1890 ) .
His studies in comparative histology enabled him clearly to demonstrate the mode of evolution of sensory nerves\#151 ; a problem which intimately concerns the whole physiology of the nervous system .
Amongst other histological subjects dealt with in his works , not the least important is that of the structure of the cell , and especially that of the generative cell .
Gustaf Magnus Retzius .
XXXVll The eminence of Retzius as a histologist was duly recognised in his own country by the foundation for him in 1877 of a special Professorship of Histology at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm .
He did not , however , hold this many years , but resigned the position in 1890 , in order that he might be free to carry on his researches without having to consider the claims of professorial duties .
But it was not merely as a histologist that he became distinguished .
He was the founder ( in 1873 ) and first Secretary of the Anthropological Society of Stockholm , and the author of many important works on anthropology , of which those on Finnish Crania ( 1898 ) , and on Ancient Swedish Crania ( 1899 ) , were alone sufficient to establish his reputation as one of the first authorities on the subject .
" Swedish Anthropology " ( 1902 ) was written in collaboration with Fiirst .
As an anatomist , he devoted special attention to Cerebral Topography , as is evidenced by the valuable monographs on the Human Brain and on the Brain of the Apes , which were issued in 1892 and 1906 respectively .
In one of the latest publications from his pen ( 1914 ) , he deals with the question whether the human brain has undergone any increase in size as a result of the progressive development of intellectual culture .
Retzius ' activities were not confined to science .
He had great literary ability .
This is apparent in the clear manner in which he describes his scientific investigations , and is strikingly manifested in the biographies of eminent men which came from his hand\#151 ; amongst them Linnaeus , Berzelius , Pasteur , Scheele , Huxley , Yirchow .
He travelled extensively both in the Old and Hew World ; his interests were universal , but the ethnology of the countries he visited had perhaps most fascination for him .
His account of Egypt in " Pictures from the Land of the Nile " ( 1891 ) is a treasure-house of brilliant descriptive writing , and the same may be said of his " Pictures of Sicily , " which followed closely upon it .
He was a poet of no mean order , and possessed considerable artistic talent , a qualification which not only added to the interest of his travels , but was of utility in the illustration of his scientific observations .
Retzius was a man of unusual charm .
He had many friends in all countries ; not a few in Great Britain , where he was always a welcome visitor ; they included Charles Darwin and Thomas Henry Huxley .
Elected a Member of the Swedish Academy in 1902 , and a Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1907 , he was in 1908 invited to deliver the Croonian Lecture\#151 ; the subject selected being " The Minute Structure of the Nervous System .
" In the following year he gave the Huxley Lecture before the Royal Anthropological Institute , on " The so-called North European Race of Mankind , " He married Anna de Hierta , daughter of Lars Johan de Hierta , founder of the well-known newspaper ' Aftonbladet .
' The union was a happy one .
Accompanying him in his travels , and interesting herself keenly in his work , his wife has been a true helpmeet to him , whilst he , on the other xxxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
hand , has played an active part in furthering her schemes for the amelioration of the social conditions of their less fortunate fellow-countrymen .
Together they have long exercised a grachms hospitality , which has caused their house to be a pleasant place of reunion , not only for persons eminent in literature , science , or politics , but also for younger men , who had yet to make good their position , and were often aided to do so by the encouragement they there received .
Few will be more missed than Gustaf Eetzius .
But , although his name is now only a memory , it is the memory of a genial personality , of an accurate scientific observer , and of a valued friend .
E. A. S. S. LUDIMAR HERMANN , 1838-1914 .
Ludimar Hermann was born in Berlin in 1838 .
He appears to have learned to read at the age of three years and showed inclinations towards a scientific career at an early age .
He attended courses in Natural Science and Medicine at the University of his native town , and after some interruptions by duties as medical officer in the wars of 1859 and 1864 , he became assistant to Du Bois Reymond .
Owing to the position Hermann took up with regard to the nature of the electrical phenomena in muscle , to be referred to presently , his relations with the professor became somewhat strained , and in 1868 he was elected to the Chair of Physiology in the University of Zurich .
He remained in this position until 1884 , when he was called to Konigsberg .
A busy life of investigation and scientific activities of a more public nature occupied his time to the full until the year 1909 , in which he was attacked by an intestinal growth , which necessitated several operations , by which cure was apparently effected .
He retired from his chair ; however , four years later and a year afterwards the disorder returned , developed rapidly and resulted in his death on June 5 , 1914 , when he had reached the age of nearly 76 years .
It was Hermann 's fortune to be concerned with the investigation of certain problems in physiology which were much discussed at the time .
Du Bois Reymond had propounded the view that the electrical currents to be obtained from muscle when electrodes are placed , one on a natural longitudinal surface , the other on a cross-section , are to be accounted for by the presence of a series of " electromotive molecules , " positive in the middle , negative at both ends , arranged in regular order .
The existence of such permanent structures was disproved by Hermann when he showed by careful experiments that an uninjured muscle is equipotential over the Ludimar Hermann .
xxxix whole surface , and that a difference of potential only arises when the cells under one of the electrodes are injured .
This was a fundamental discovery and , although at that time the source of electromotive force in changes of distribution of ions and the properties of semi-permeable membranes was unknown , the facts brought to light by Hermann were a necessary preliminary to further work and led him to formulate his well-known " theory .
" According to this theory , any spot whose chemical nature changes in the direction of injury or death becomes electro-negative in the sense of the zinc pole of the Daniell battery .
We may note that stress is here laid on chemical processes , which are known to occur , in contradistinction to the purely hypothetical view of Du Bois Beymond .
When we remember that this work was done in the laboratory of the latter , we realise that some courage was manifested in publishing it .
A further step was taken by showing that any part of a muscle in a state of activity is also electro-negative to a part at rest .
Thus , there is a similarity in the nature of the process of contraction to that which is associated with injury , as already known in connection with the production of acid in activity and in rigor mortis. .
Accurate and delicate apparatus was devised in order to follow " the time course of the " current of action , " which was found to progress in the form of a wave from the point stimulated .
If the electrodes were situated at unequal distances from such a point , that one nearest to it became negative first , the further point following with a similar change .
By this means , the galvanometer showed a deflection first in one direction , then in the opposite direction , the so-called " diphasic Any two points in the same stage of activity are equipotential .
An important practical application of these facts will be mentioned later .
The chemical or rather physico-chemical point of view taken in the preceding researches naturally led on to further investigation of the nature of muscular contraction .
It was first shown that muscle is capable of executing a prolonged series of contractions in vacuo .
Hence the energy is not derived directly from an oxidation process , but from some store of potential energy present in the resting muscle .
Hermann found that carbon dioxide was given off , although it was reserved for Fletcher at a later date to show that this was derived from a secondary reaction not involved in the essential process .
Hermann called the hypothetical substance from which the contractile energy was obtained , inogen , and in the belief that carbon dioxide was evolved in its decomposition , inogen w^as interpreted as a compound of a protein constituent of muscle ( " myosin " ) , carbon dioxide , and lactic acid , which latter was also known to be produced .
He held that these two latter substances were given off into the blood , while the nitrogenous constituent was used again to reproduce the original compound by the assistance of energy derived from food arriving in the blood .
Although we know now that the only essential part of the contractile process is the separation of lactic acid , and on the surface of certain structural constituents of the muscle f VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. xl Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
cells , which do not actually share in the chemical decomposition process , it is clear that if we regard Hermann 's myosin as a name for these structures , his view was an important step in the right direction , although the giving off of carbon dioxide was not correctly interpreted .
Hermann was the first to show that electrical changes are an accompaniment of the activity of many secreting glands .
He used the " alteration theory " to interpret the phenomena .
The second main region of his work , which was his chief occupation at Konigsberg , was concerned with the analysis of and speech .
In this his mathematical skill was of much service .
Use was made of photographic registration and a method of magnifying the impressions on phonograph records was worked out .
It is impossible to describe this work in detail , but the main point was the view of the composition of vowel sounds to which it led .
This view was that vowel sounds are not merely characterised by harmonics of tones produced in the larynx , but that sounds are added to these by blowing through the mouth cavity , specially adjusted for each vowel sound .
Many other branches of physiological research received valuable contributions from Hermann 's laboratory .
Heat production , respiration , and the blood pigment may be mentioned .
To him , as it appears , should be given the credit of pointing out that the digestive processes in general are of the nature of hydrolytic decompositions , and that their object is to afford the simple materials to be used by each cell for the building up of its own special products .
Hot the least of his services to physiology was the bringing out of the ' Handbuch der Physiologie ' in 1879\#151 ; 1883 .
Several of the articles are by Hermann himself , and the work as a whole gives a most valuable account of what was known at the time .
Indeed , much of it may still be read with profit .
Hermann 's success in research was due in great part to his exceptional skill in the design , construction , and use of apparatus as needed for the problems on which he was engaged .
Most of these problems depended for their solution on the accurate measurement of physical quantities .
Hermann was strongly of the opinion that physiology must be studied for its own sake , not merely for its use in the practice of medicine .
He refers to the fundamental problems which are opened up when courage is found to attack the phenomena of life at their source in the " organisation of the elementary parts .
" That such knowledge , sooner or later , has its practical application is illustrated by the use to which Hermann 's discoveries in the field of the electrical phenomena of muscle has been put in the methods of diagnosis by electrocardiographic records .
W. M. B. xli S1E J. HUTCHINSON , 1828-1913 .
Sir Jonathan Hutchinson was born at Selby on July 23 , 1828 .
He was of Quaker parentage , and through his life was a member of that religious body. .
He received the beginnings of his medical education at the York Medical1 School and County Hospital , and he was apprenticed at the age of 16 in the old-fashioned way to a'medical practitioner .
At the York Medical School he came under the influence of an able though eccentric teacher , Dr. Laycock , afterwards Professor of Medicine at the University of Edinburgh .
It was .
possibly from Laycock that Hutchinson received the impetus towards the study of heredity in the causation of disease and the importance of the observation of physiognomy in clinical medicine .
His medical studies were further pursued at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital under Sir James Paget , and he obtained his qualifying diploma in 1850 .
He thereupon commenced practice in the city of London , but his time and energy were rapidly absorbed by a succession of hospital appointments .
The hospitals for diseases of the skin , of the eye , of the genito-urinary organs , of the lungs , secured either in turn or contemporaneously his ardent devotion , and it may be said that at each one he gained and added some new material for clinical medicine .
At length he became attached to the staff of the London Hospital , where , as a general surgeon till 1883 , his activities were mainly directed .
But he continued his devotion to diseases of the eye and of the skin more or less during all this period , and his wide multiform experience was utilised in teaching , formally or informally , almost to the end of his life .
His most important contributions to medical science concerned syphilis , in which it may truly be said that his researches made a definite landmark in medical knowledge .
The morbid condition in children , which had previously been designated strumous corneitis , he proved to be an interstitial inflammation due to inherited syphilis .
He showed , further , that this special form of inflammation was accompanied by a characteristic alteration of the permanent upper median incisor teeth , by a marked physiognomy , and often by a special form of deafness .
His papers , recording many cases of this clinical groups appeared in the Ophthalmic Hospital reports , and were subsequently collected in a clinical memoir of very great value .
Their conclusions have received complete verification and acceptance , and they mark the starting point of the later scientific studies on hereditary syphilis .
Hutchinson 's article on " Constitutional Syphilis " in ' Beynolds 's System of Medicine ' was scarcely less remarkable by way of valuable generalisation than his elucidation of the symptomatology of the hereditary form of the disease .
In this article he maintained that the proper place for syphilis in the classification of diseases was side by side with the acute infectious fevers .
He claimed syphilis as a " thinned out " fever , with its incubation , its acute vol. xci.\#151 ; b. g xlii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
invasion , its efflorescence , its developed symptoms , and its sequelae .
The sequelae had been previously designated as belonging to the tertiary stage of the disease .
In all these stages the analogies and affinities with the acute specifics were pointed out .
Hutchinson made valuable clinical and pathological studies of dental defects in children who had been the subjects of convulsions in infancy , and likewise , suffered from lamellar cataract of the lens .
He drew attention to several manifestations of gouty inheritance hitherto unnoticed , especially in regard to haemorrhagic troubles , and he made an exhaustive investigation of the clinical history of tobacco amblyopia .
In his lectures on the " pedigree of disease , " he collected and elucidated many varied and important facts bearing on idiosyncracies ( a ) in disease , ( b ) in the reaction in different individuals to various foods , ( c ) in the reaction in different individuals to certain drugs .
For many years Hutchinson made careful study of the natural history of leprosy , and , in the course of his enquiries on the geographical distribution of this malady , he visited Norway , South Africa , and India .
Some of these journeys were made in advanced life .
He maintained that leprosy was a food disease , and he marshalled a large body of arguments in support of his contention that the eating of decomposing fish was the essential factor .
He accepted the later bacteriological findings of Hansen , but claimed that they could be grafted on to his own doctrine .
He failed to secure the acceptance of his contention , and this is probably the solitary instance of his failure .
Hutchinson was a master of note taking .
He took great pains in recording individual cases , laying much stress on the distribution of the lesions as to their symmetry or asymmetry , , and he introduced a simple graphic " space for time " diagram , in which he allotted an equally wide column for any given number of months or years , and inserted the date when the important symptoms appeared during the evolution of the disease .
Thus his life histories yielded interesting facts and generalisations as to the usual period of onset and the duration of given symptoms , and the frequency with which -different groups of symptoms occurred .
He was a great collector of pathological specimens and of drawings of noteworthy skin conditions , etc. , and he was an enthusiastic exponent of museums .
He was one of the best clinical teachers of his time .
He threw a flood of light on the commonest diseases , and had that faculty of the scientific use of the imagination which enabled him to show the relationship of one disease with another , however far they might superficially seem to be apart .
Although excellent as a teacher of undergraduates , it is in connection with post-graduate instruction that he will be chiefly remembered .
To the Polyclinic , in Chenies Street , he devoted much time , effort , and money .
He gave regular demonstrations to medical men there .
With this institution his own clinical museum was ultimately incorporated , and he spared no Sir J. Hutchinson .
xliii pains in inducing other fellow-workers to join in this important educational effort .
Hutchinson presided in successive years over several of the London medical societies , and one of his most important services to his profession was as secretary and inspirer of the New Sydenham Society .
He organised the translation and publication of many foreign books , lectures , and pamphlets , and the reprinting of not a few important English memoirs .
Hutchinson held in turn every office of the College of Surgeons , including the Hunterian Professorship and the Presidency .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1882 on account of his contributions to scientific medicine , and he was knighted in 1908 .
It seems right to add to this record of Hutchinson 's activities a brief note of his recreations at his Hindhead home .
He was greatly interested in any opportunities which presented themselves of studying animal pathology , but , most of all , in developing an educational village museum , which should set forth in a homely way , geological , biological , and historical knowledge , by specimens , diagrams , and other illustrations .
Here , or on a grassy platform close by , he gave short colloquial lectures on Sunday afternoons to village audiences , choosing for his topics some scientific material , interspersed with brief discourses on biography , history , and economics .
He founded an educational museum also at Selby , his native town , and there also he gave regular Sunday afternoon addresses .
He died in the fulness of years , only desiring that he might be remembered as a " forward-looking man .
" It would be difficult to parallel a life which , almost to the end , was so full of ripe and varied observation , of philosophic review , and of beneficent activities , superposed on the career of a busy and successful surgeon .
T. B. '/ ^ xliv Sir VICTOR HORSLEY , 1857-1916 .
This delayed obituary of the late Sir Victor Horsley pertains especially to his scientific work , because already his family history , upbringing , character , and career have been so admirably and judicially dealt with in ' A Study of his Life and Work , ' by Stephen Paget , 1919 .
Victor Alexander Haden Horsley was born on April 14 , 1857 , at 1 , High Row , Kensington .
His mother was a daughter of Charles Haden , the surgeon ; his father was John Callcott Horsley , R.A. Victor was educated at Cranbrook School , and in January , 1874 , he matriculated at the University of London .
In 1875 , having passed his preliminary scientific examination , he entered as a medical student at University College .
Early in his student days he showed those distinctive qualities of originality of thought , combined with a conception of utility , industry , and pertinacity of purpose which rapidly developed into a remarkably brilliant and unique career as a scientist and surgeon , terminated only too early by one of the saddest fatalities in the Great War . .
In .
1880 , at a time when Listerism and Spontaneous Generation were the burning subjects of scientific discussion , Horsley was engaged with another student ( the writer ) for seven months in investigating the question as to " the Existence of Bacteria or their Antecedents in Healthy Tissues , " the positive results of which were shown in a paper published in the 'Journal of Physiology , ' 1882 .
He passed the final examination for the Membership of the Royal College of Surgeons , 1880 , and became house-surgeon to Mr. John Marshall , who recognised his great scientific abilities .
In 1881 , he took the M.B. and B.S. degrees of the University of London , and was awarded the gold medal in Surgery .
It so happened that an unusual number of brilliant students who have since attained to the highest positions in medicine and surgery obtained these degrees at the same time .
From 1882 to 1884 Horsley held the appointment of surgical registrar and assistant professor of pathology .
During this time he was engaged in investigating the patellar knee-jerk and the results of these observations were published in ' Brain , ' October , 1883 .
He also wrote a report on " Septic Bacteria and their Physiological Relations " for the Local Government Board .
It was , however , in 1884 with Prof. Schafer that he began his great work on ' The Functions of the Cerebral Cortex , ' and very soon he was applying the knowledge and experience gained by his experiments upon animals , for in December , 1884 , he read , at a meeting of the Physiological Society , notes on four cases of injury of the brain illustrating the position of the motor centres .
Moreover , now , at the age of 27 he published several valuable papers on cerebral function and made an important addition to knowledge by the demonstration of the existence of nervinervorum .
Sir Victor Horsley .
x\v In this yeai , having beconiG engaged to Miss Eldred Bramwell , Horsley had to decide the lines of his future career , and it is interesting to note that in a letter he announced his intention to practise as a surgeon on the giounds that .
the most solid work in Pathology has been done by men in practice , and at least one will have an idea as to what is more likelv to be practically useful in the way of research .
" Only men like Horsley with the extraordinary energy and powers of concentration on the scientific aspects of practice could combine the two departments with such brilliant success .
From 1884 to 1890 Horsley acted as Professor Superintendent of the Brown Institution and this period was probably the most fruitful of his scientific career .
Although this institution has had many distinguished superintendents since , it has never flourished to the same degree as when he was its spiritual fire .
During these six years he attracted a company of researchers , but he himself studied ( 1 ) The Localisation of Function in the Brain and the Pathology of Epilepsy in Canine Chorea ; ( 2 ) The Thyroid Gland with especial Reference to Myxoedema and Cretinism ; ( 3 ) The Protective Treatment of Rabies .
His work on the localisation of the brain was carried on first with Sir Edward Sharpey-Schafer and later on with the late Dr. C. E. Beevor .
His work on the thyroid gland and rabies was all , or nearly all of it , carried out by himself at the Brown Institution .
The scientific acumen , courage , strength of will and determination of the man was shown in a remarkable manner in his successful efforts to stamp out rabies in this country by the muzzling of all dogs .
Fortunately , Mr. Walter Long was , at the time , President of the Local Government Board , and to these two men , who had the courage of their convictions , the nation owes a deep debt of gratitude for resisting the clamorous attempts made by the public to relax or abolish the Acts until it was deemed safe so to do .
It was a similar but more protracted and bitter struggle that took place later between Horsley and a section of the public and their leader , Miss Frances Power Cobbe , who were militating to obtain total abolition of vivisection .
He was able to show that their arguments were based upon a suppressio very , whereas his arguments in favour of vivisection were all the more effective on account of his own valuable researches upon living animals .
He conclusively demonstrated not only the great benefit humanity had derived from experiments upon animals , but that the animals themselves would be relieved from suffering by the knowledge obtained from legalised vivisection .
The dawn of the function of endocrine glands arose in England with the clinical recognition of the association of thyroid insufficiency with the condition termed myxeedema .
Claude Bernard , in his ' Physiologic Operatoire , " 1879 edition , published the year after his death , speaking of the thyroid and supra-renal glands says : " Yet we know absolutely nothing of the function of these organs .
" It is a satisfaction to British biological science to recognise that the functions of these two glands were first illuminated by the brilliant xlvi Obituary Notices ofFeUoivs deceased .
researches of Horsley on the thyroid , and by those of Oliver and Schafer on the supra-renal .
In 1882 to 1883 , the Swiss surgeons , Koclier and Reverdin , published their results of operations upon the thyroid gland for goitre , which was followed by " Myxoedeme Operatoire .
" In November , 1883 , a committee of the Clinical Society recognising " the hitherto undreamt of importance of the thyroid gland , " asked Horsley to study it by the experimental method .
This he did upon monkeys , and a year later he gave two lectures at the University of London , embodying his results , entitled\#151 ; " The Thyroid Gland : its Relation to the Pathology of Myxcedema and Cretinism , to the Question of the Surgical Treatment of Goitre , and to the General Nutrition of the Body .
" This title is comprehensive and exhibits the characteristics of Horsley , for it shows that he had studied the subject as a physiologist , pathologist , and a surgeon .
To Schiff , however , belongs the credit of having first produced an experimental Cachexia strumiprivawith tremors in dogs and rodents .
Horsley , in a letter to Schafer , remarks : " Well , we did four monkeys last week , and one of them has the same tremors .
" It seems that Horsley did not recognise in his report how the myxcedema was produced , and it was not until 1890 , when he published in the ' British Medical Journal , ' " A Note on the Possible Means of Arresting the Progress of Myxcedema , , and Allied Diseases , " that he admitted the importance of the successful transplantation experiments of Schiff and von Eiselberg\#151 ; and he then proposed that , as soon as opportunity offered , to try transplanting a portion of the thyroid gland of a sheep .
A short time after , the treatment of myxcedema by transplantation of the gland was replaced by administration of it by the mouth .
It is a remarkable biological fact that this gland , the secretion of which was once poured through a duct into the alimentary canal , is effective when administered by the mouth , whereas other ductless glands , e.g. the supra-renal , are not .
Whether it was chance , or the knowledge of this biological fact , which led Dr. George Murray to try this treatment in practice , it has turned out to be one of the greatest advances in medical therapeutics .
Although the scientific work already mentioned as accomplished by Horsley had been sufficient to lead to his election in 1886 to the Fellowship of the Royal Society , his pre-eminence as a pioneer in Cerebral Localisation and its practical application to brain surgery will stand for all time .
From 1884 to 1891 , he published in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' in conjunction with Schafer , Beevor , Semon , Walter Spencer , and Gotch , eight papers , 525 pages in all , with 33 plates .
Mr. Paget thus admirably sums up this work : " First , there was the more general work with Schafer , then the more special work with Beevor\#151 ; the study of localisation in one species of monkey ; the study of localisation , not only at the level of the surface of the brain , but at the level of the nerve fibres passing from the surfaces of the brain towards the spinal cord , and the single study of an anthropoid brain .
" The V^'beto ' ) ' xlvn latter , on account of its importance , requires some fuller exposition on my part .
In 1890 Horsley and Beevor discovered definitely localised areas in the orang brain .
In certain points of anatomical detail , and more especially the excitability of the post-central convolution , combined with the existence of intermediate inexcitable zones , their results were modified by the subsequent researches of Griinbaum and Sherrington .
But they do not in any way detract from the value of Horsley 's pioneer research and its application to cerebral surgery in man .
The fact must also not be forgotten that Horsley was the first to operate in 1887 for tumour of the spinal cord on a case of Sir Win .
Gowers , and to remove it with successful results .
To continue Paget 's account of the scientific researches of Horsley : " Then the special work with Semon , the study of the localisation of the centres for the movements of the larynx .
" The work with Walter Spencer was concerned with the control of hnemorrhage from the middle cerebral artery by compression of the common carotid .
That with Gotcli was a long and important paper upon observations upon the electro-motive changes in the mammalian spinal cord following electrical stimulation of the cortex cerebri .
The two fundamental principles shown by these observations were:\#151 ; " ( 1 ) Electro-motive changes occurred at the cut surface of the lower dorsal spinal cord , that is , below the spinal centres for the upper limb and above the spinal centres for the lower limb , only when the cortical centres for the lower limb were stimulated , but not otherwise .
" ( 2 ) The electro-motive change so produced was first a persistent stage , next a rhythmical stage answering to the tonic and clonic stages of the convulsions , and the conclusion was arrived at that during a cortical epileptiform discharge the electro-motive changes in the cord are exactly parallel , as regards the character of their sequence , to the convulsion of the muscles as recorded by the graphic method .
" In 1886 he was appointed surgeon to the National Hospital for Epilepsy and Nervous Diseases\#151 ; thus early in his career he obtained the opportunity he desired of applying his scientific knowledge and experience obtained by experiments upon animals to the surgery of the brain and spinal cord .
Horsley 's skill as a surgeon in this speciality soon became unrivalled , and his fame spread abroad .
It was not , however , until 1900 that he was appointed full surgeon at University College Hospital .
Two years later he received the honour of knighthood .
His practice now became very extensive , but he still found time to deli ver many scientific addresses and lectures ; and even as late as 1910 he devoted a considerable amount of time to experimental investigations , principally in conjunction with B. H. Clarke , on " The Intrinsic Fibres of the Cerebellum , its Nuclei and Efferent Tracts " ; they also established the fact that the cerebellar cortex is practically inexcitable .
Sir Victor gave up his appointment at University College Hospital and his Professorship of Surgery at University College in 1906 .
About this period he commenced to turn his attention to medical politics and social xlviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
questions , especially those of female suffrage and temperance , of which he became the great protagonist .
Had he lived he would have seen many of the reforms he was pressing already adopted .
This only shows how inestimable a benefit to others it is that some men should think differently and act differently to accepted customs and traditions .
In 1909 Sir Victor delivered the Linacre Lecture upon " The Function of the so-called Motor Area of the Brain .
" This is generally considered the most philosophical of all Horsley 's writings , because it is enriched by twenty-three years ' unrivalled experience of a physiologist , pathologist , and surgeon , and by the description of a case upon which he had operated and was able to show , as a result of the operation , that the Gyrus pre-centralis in man is the seat of representation of : ( 1 ) slight tactility , ( 2 ) topognosis , ( 3 ) muscular sense , ( 4 ) arthric sense , ( 5 ) stereognosis , ( 6 ) pain , and ( 7 ) movement .
Some of the scientific honours bestowed upon Sir Victor Horsley were :\#151 ; The Boyal Medal , 1894 ; M. D. Halle , 1894 ; Foreign Associate of the French Academy of Medicine , 1910 ; Member of the Boyal Prussian Academy of Medicine , 1910 ; the Lannelongue Prize and Gold Medal , 1911 ; Member of Boyal Society of Upsala , in succession to Lord Lister , 1912 .
His publications , individual and combined , number 129 , of which quite 30 are of outstanding importance to science .
Sir Victor 's intention was to enter Parliament where , owing to his courage , indomitable energy , and medical knowledge and experience in its widest sense , he would have been of immense help to the Ministry of Health .
But it was ordained otherwise\#151 ; he went on another crusade , as surgeon in the B.A.M.C. , first in Egypt then in Mesopotamia\#151 ; the stirring work he did in the army is well recorded in his letters home , and his death from heatstroke at the age of 59 ( July , 1916 ) , unfortunately ended the career of one of the greatest surgeons and scientists England has produced\#151 ; his loss irreparable to those who , like myself , had the privilege of a long and unbroken friendship\#151 ; and we hope that now his numerous friends and admirers will help us in the founding of a memorial lectureship bearing his name .
F. W. M. xlix OCTAVIUS PICKARD-CAMBRIDGE , 1828-1917 .
The Rev. Octavius Pickard-Cambridge , who died on March 9 , 1917 , was the fifth son of the Rector and Squire of Bloxworth , Dorset , the Rev. George Pickard , who added the name of Cambridge on succeeding to the property of his cousin , C. 0 .
Cambridge .
He was born November 3 , 1828 , at the Rectory , where , as Rector of Bloxworth , he lived for nearly fifty years .
Pickard-Cambridge did not go to a Public School , but was for two years , in the middle forties , a pupil of the Rev. William Barnes , the famous Dorset poet , who was then keeping a school in Dorchester .
To this inspiring teacher he owed the foundation of the literary power which is of inestimable value in the presentation of scientific work .
" It was appropriate that his most finished piece of writing should have been the memoir of his old teacher and friend , which he contributed to the 4 Proceedings ' of the Dorset Field Club in 1887\#151 ; a warm tribute of admiration and gratitude , together with an appreciation of Mr. Barnes 's poems , which , while disowning all attempt at criticism , shows real critical power and insight into the nature of poetry .
' * Mr. A. W. Pickard-Cambridge well remembers , too , how his father 's help in holiday tasks made the literary subjects living and intelligible .
While working with Mr. Barnes he learned the violin , confirming and -strengthening the natural gift for music , which meant so much for himself , as well as others , throughout his life .
His skill in drawing , almost essential for the work of a naturalist , must have been apparent at an early age , for his sketch-book of 1852-3 " contains some exquisite pencil-sketches , chiefly of the churches of the country round Hatch Beauchamp .
" Apart from his work with Mr. Barnes , Pickard-Cambridge enjoyed the pursuits of the country\#151 ; gardening , bee-keeping , and , above all , shooting .
In 1849 he went to London to enter on a two years ' course of study for the Bar , but , although the experience was valuable , the work and the life did not suit him , and were not continued .
Then , for the two years 1852-3 , he read with a tutor at Hatch Beauchamp , Somerset , and , in 1855 , entered University College , Durham , to prepare for Holy Orders and to take his degree\#151 ; B.A. in 1858 , M.A. in 1859 .
At College he worked hard , and entered fully and with spirit into the many-sided life of the University .
In 1858 he was ordained , and held the curacy of Scarisbrick , in the diocese of Chester , with a stipend of \#163 ; 60 a year .
He was at Scarisbrick when the " Origin of Species " appeared in 1859 , and remembered with amusement the denunciations of Darwin by the local clergy .
In 1860 , Pickard-Cambridge left Scarisbrick , to help , and in 1868 to succeed , his father , as Rector of Bloxworth and Winterbourne Tomson .
* This and all succeeding quotations without reference are from the ' Memoir of the Reverend Octavius Pickard-Cambridge , ' by his son , A. W. Pickard-Cambridge , Fellow of Balliol College , Oxford , printed for private circulation , 1918 .
1 Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
The latter , a mere handful of people , often less than twenty in all , living round a little church two miles away , was the cause of much wasted energy , for there were two other churches near at hand .
Relief came about 1890 , when the church was closed .
In the meantime , " for about thirty years , as Curate or Rector , he had walked over Sunday after Sunday in all weathers , sometimes returning drenched to the skin , sometimes with his beard bristling with long icicles , sometimes almost ' done up ' with the mid-day heat .
He calculated that he had covered about 7000 miles in coming and gning between Bloxworth and Tomson .
" As curate to his father , he lived in " The Cottage " near the Rectory at Bloxworth .
On April 19 , 1866 , he married Miss Rose Wallace , the daughter of the Rev. James Lloyd Wallace , Head Master of the Grammar School at Sevenoaks .
They met two years before , on his first visit to the Continent .
Until her death in August , 1910 , she gave him unwearied and devoted help in the varied duties of the parish and home .
They had six sons , of whom the second died in infancy .
" Not one of us/ ' writes A. W. Pickard-Cambridge , " would hesitate to attribute any success we may have achieved in different ways , in the first place , to her patient and thorough teaching .
" And of his father\#151 ; " To his family , my father was always a boy among boys ; he shared all our pursuits and amusements , and , without knowing how much we were gaining , we acquired from him a delight in nature and a habit of observing natural objects , which has been one of the best things in our lives .
He would take any pains for our pleasure . . . .
He rarely went out for a walk or for a collecting expedition without one or more of us , and we had no greater pleasure than his companionship , for he was always fresh and never seemed to grow old . . . .
When , as we grew older , we came to hold views different from his own on many matters , it made no difference to the happiness of our companionship with him .
" His son writes of the Bloxworth life : " From the time of his entry into the Rectory until his death , my father lived the uneventful life of a country parson , seldom leaving home , except for a few days ' collecting from time to time , or a meeting of the Dorset Field Club , or a brief visit to London or Oxford , principally for work in natural history museums , or sometimes to spend a few days with a brother naturalist .
The contents of his diaries show some of the interests which entered into a singularly happy and contented life\#151 ; the dates of the planting and digging of potatoes\#151 ; of the first rhubarb , asparagus , peas , or strawberries\#151 ; of the ' meets ' of foxhounds at Bloxworth or the ' Red Post '\#151 ; of the buying and selling of pigs\#151 ; of concerts in his own or neighbouring villages . . . .
He was an old-fashioned High Churchman , and took a .
somewhat severe view of Dissent\#151 ; though no Dissenter ever found him lacking in chai'ity in times of need . . . .
He thoroughly understood his parishioners , nearly all of whom were farm labourers of the type which prevails in the West of England ; he knew their work and their life and its conditions as well as they did ; and to every one in the parish lie was always ready to give advice and help on any Octavius Pickard - Cct m bridge .
li matter on which help was needed ; he had , and retained to his death , their trust and affection . . . .
They came to him naturally in any trouble or difficulty ; he told them faithfully when he thought they were wrong , and did not always wait to be asked his opinion . . . .
When one looks back over his life as Hector for nearly fifty years , and the longer life , which was almost all passed in Bloxworth , it is no wonder that one of the older farm labourers\#151 ; a man not much given to expressing emotion\#151 ; should have said , when my father passed away , ' There , it is the end of all things to we .
' " During the period of his curacy at Bloxworth , Pickard-Cambridge went abroad twice with a pupil , Mr. 0 .
Bradshaw , spending nearly the whole of 1864 in various parts of the Continent , in Egypt , and Corfu .
On January 10 , 1865 , they started again , and , after nearly three months in Italy , sailed to Alexandria and Jaffa for a two-months ' tour in Palestine and Syria .
Then Greece , Austria , Germany , and home at the end of the year by way of Holland and Belgium .
There can be no doubt that the experiences of these two years were of the utmost value to one who was to spend the rest of his long life in a somewhat remote country parish .
" They were something more than a passing phase in his life .
He never forgot the fascination of foreign scenery and architecture , the delight and freshness of collecting exotic creatures , and the manifold experiences of his travels , especially in Egypt and Syria .
He used to speak of these with a pleasure which seemed always alive , and his travels gave a reality and interest to his life-long correspondence with foreign naturalists and his continual work at exotic collections sent to him by them and others .
" His diary , begun when he was 21 , and kept up until just before his death , gives an account of his travels , from which many passages of great interest , often brightened by flashes of an incisive humour , are reprinted by his son .
From the above brief account of his life and surroundings , it is clear that Pickard-Cambridge had every chance of developing his strong innate love of Natural History .
Before he was seven he had captured a butterfly rarely seen in this country , and , in doing so , had probably received his earliest impulse .
His first published observation , on an almost white Willow Wren , appeared in the ' Zoologist ' for 1852 .
Two years later , accompanied by the great Entomologist , Frederick Bond , he paid the first of many visits to the New Forest .
It was probably in this year , 1854 , that lie first entered upon the scientific work of his life , his interest being stimulated by the earlier writings of John Blackwall , the leading authority on British spiders .
These publications were first brought to his notice by an Entomological friend , R. H. Mead .
He soon entered into correspondence with Blackwall , and , in 1860 , visited him at Llanrwst , where they had long and frequent discussions over the ' Origin , ' which had recently appeared .
Nineteen years later 1 made the same pilgrimage , and well remember the stimulating enthusiasm of the aged naturalist .
Discussing with considerable scepticism the belief that the bite of certain spiders was poisonous to man , Blackwall told me that he had often received monstrous tropical species with ]ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the most sinister reputation , and I clearly recall his pathetic tone of disappointment as he said :\#151 ; " They might have had cheek or lip , but not one of them would bite me !
" Had not my interests been already fixed , here was enthusiasm at the age of 89 , which might well have persuaded me to be an arachnologist .
Except for two notes on " Abstinence of a Spider , " in the ' Zoologist ' for 1852 and 1853 , Pickard-Cambridge did not publish anything upon the Arachnida until 1859 , when he brought out " Remarks on Arachnida , taken chiefly in Dorsetshire and Hampshire " ( ' Zoologist , ' p. 6493 ) .
Erom this time , until within three years of his death , he published papers on the subject nearly every year\#151 ; often several in a year .
He attained the highest rank as an arachnologist with such rapidity that Blackwall was glad to avail himself of his help in the publication , between 1861 and 1864 , of his greatest work , ' British and Irish Spiders ' ( Ray Society ) .
Pickard-Cambridge 's principal monograph was the volume on Arachnida in the " Biologia Centrali-Americana , " a very serious undertaking , occupying much of his time between 1883 and 1902 .
In this , and some of his other works , he was assisted by his nephew , F. 0 .
Pickard-Cambridge , a very able naturalist too early lost to science .
Of even greater importance in helping on the subject were his series of standard works on the British Arachnida\#151 ; " Spiders of Dorset " ( Pt. I , 1879 ; Pt. II , 1881 ) , " British Species of Plialangidea ' ( 1890 ) , " British Species of Chernetidea " ( 1892 ) , " List of British and Irish Spiders " ( 1900 ) , and many shorter papers , bringing the first-named up to date .
In fact , the greater part of his work appeared in the form of a succession of papers in the ' Zoologist , ' ' Annals and Magazine of Natural History , ' and publications of the Linnean and Zoological Socities , and the Dorset Natural History and Antiquarian Field Club .
A complete list of his publications occupies seventeen pages of his son 's memoir , and of these , eleven deal with the Arachnida .
He was elected F.R.S. m 1887 .
His collection of Arachnida , and equally splendid library , rich in manuscript notes , he bequeathed to the University of Oxford .
The specimens , which include the Blackwall series , now rest in the Hope Department , upon the shelves prepared for them in the " Den " at Bloxworth in 1884 .
With all his activity in Arachnology , Pickard-Cambridge always retained a keen interest in other branches of Natural History , as the list of his recorded observations , especially upon birds and Lepidoptera , abundantly proves .
Furthermore , his note-books contain a store of observations on birds , from which it is hoped that a selection may be published at some-future time .
It has already been said that he was from the very first in sympathy with the views of Charles Darwin on the origin of species by Natural Selection .
He differed from Darwin , and agreed with Wallace 's later opinions on the theory of Sexual Selection , believing , as he wrote in 1869 , that there is Octavius Pickard- Cambridge .
liii " something in the male organisation of a special , and sexual nature , which , of its own vital force , develops the remarkable male peculiarities so commonly seen , and of no imaginable use to that sex .
In as far as these peculiarities show a great vital power , they point out to us the finest and strongest individuals of the sex , and show us which of them would most certainly appropriate to themselves the best and greatest number of females , and leave behind them the strongest and greatest number of progeny .
And here would come in , as it appears to me , the proper application of Darwin 's theory of Natural Selection ; for the possessors of greatest vital power being those most frequently produced and reproduced , the external signs of it would go on developing in an ever-increasing exaggeration , only to be checked where it became really detrimental in some respect or other to the individual."* This is essentially the same as Wallace 's view , arrived at much earlier than Wallace .
It encounters one main difficulty\#151 ; that there is no valid reason why one colour should need more vital power for its production than another , an objection especially obvious in structural colours dependent upon the precise thinness of plates or intervals between striae , etc. In writing this notice , I owe almost everything to the memoir printed in 1918 for private circulation by Mr. A. W. Pickard-Cambridge , who has entered with the most complete sympathy and insight into every side of his father 's life .
A copy , presented by the author , is in the library of the Ptoyal Society .
E. B. P. * From a letter written to A. R. Wallace in 1869 and quoted in " Darwinism , ' " ' 1889 , p. 296 , n. 1 .

