PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
XIV .
Observations on the Natural History of the Cuckoo .
By Mr. Edward Jenner .
In a Letter to John Hunter , Esq. F. R. S. Read March 13 , 1788 .
TOJOHNHUNTE R , ES Q. DEARSI R , HAVING , at your request , employed some of my leisure hours in attending to the natural history of the Cuckoo , I beg leave to lay before you the result of my observations , with a hope that they may tend to illustrate a subject hitherto not sufficiently investigated ; and should what is here offered prove , in your opinion , deserving the attention of the Royal Society , you will do me the honour of presenting it to that learned Body .
The first appearance of Cuckoos in Gloucestershire ( the part of England where these observations were made ) is about the 17th of April .
The song of the male , which is well known , soon proclaims its arrival .
The song of the female ( if the peculiar notes of which it is composed may be so called ) is widely different , and has been so little attended to , that I believe few are acquainted with it .
I know not how to convey to you a proper idea of it by a comparison with the notes of any other bird ; but the cry of the Dab-chick bears the nearest resemblance to it .
Unlike the generality of birds , Cuckoos do not pair .
When a female appears on the wing , she is often attended by two or three males , who seem to be earnestly contending for her favours .
From the time of her appearance , till after the middle of summer , the nests of the birds selected to receive her egg are to be found in great abundance ; but , like the other migrating birds , she does not begin to lay till some weeks after her arrival .
I never could procure an egg till after the middle of May , though probably an early-coming Cuckoo may produce one sooner * .
* What is meant by an early-coming Cuckoo , I shall more fully explain in a Paper I intend to lay before you on the Migration of Birds ; but it may be necessary to mention here , that migrating birds of the same species arrive and depart in succession .
Cuckoos , for example , appear in greater numbers on the the second than on the week of their arrival , and they disappear in the same gradual manner .
The Cuckoo makes choice of the nests of a great variety of small birds .
I have known its egg entrusted to the care of the Hedge-sparrow , the Water-wagtail , the Titlark , the Yellowhammer , the green Linnet , and the Whinchat .
Among these it generally selects the three former ; but shows a much greater partiality to the Hedge-sparrow than to any of the rest : therefore , for the purpose of avoiding confusion , this bird only , in the following account , will be considered as the foster-parent of the Cuckoo , except in instances which are particularly specified .
The Hedge-sparrow commonly takes up four or five days in laying her eggs .
During this time ( generally after she has laid one or two ) the Cuckoo contrives to deposit her egg among the rest , leaving the future care of it entirely to the Hedge-sparrow .
This intrusion often occasions some discomposure ; for the old Hedge-sparrow at intervals , whilst she is sitting , not unfrequently throws out some of her own eggs , and sometimes injures them in such a way that they become addle ; so that it more frequently happens , that only two or three Hedgesparrow 's eggs are hatched with the Cuckoo 's than otherwise : but whether this be the case or not , she sits the same length of time as if no foreign egg had been introduced , the Cuckoo 's egg requiring no longer incubation than her own .
However , I have never seen an instance where the Hedge-sparrow has either thrown out or injured the egg of the Cuckoo .
When the Hedge-sparrow has sat her usual time , and disengaged the young Cuckoo and some of her own offspring from the shell * , her own young ones , and any of her eggs that remain unhatched , are soon turned out , the young Cuckoo remaining possessor of the nest , and sole object of her future * The young Cuckoo is commonly hatched first .
care .
The young birds are not previously killed , nor are the eggs demolished ; but all are left to perish together , either entangled about the bush which contains the nest , or lying on the ground under it .
The early fate of the young Hedge-sparrows is a circumstance that has been noticed by others , but attributed to wrong causes .
A variety of conjectures have been formed upon it .
Some have supposed the parent Cuckoo the author of their destruction ; while others , as erroneously , have pronounced them smothered by the disproportionate size of their fellow-nestling .
Now the Cuckoo 's egg being not much larger than the Hedgesparrow 's ( as I shall more fully point out hereafter ) it necessarily follows , that at first there can be no great difference in the size of the birds just burst from the shell .
Of the fallacy of the former assertion also I was some years ago convinced , by having found that many Cuckoo 's eggs were hatched in the nests of other birds after the old Cuckoo had disappeared ; and by seeing the same fate then attend the nestling sparrows as during the appearance of old Cuckoos in this country .
But , before I proceed to the facts relating to the death of the young Sparrows , it will be proper to lay before you some examples of the incubation of the egg , and the rearing of the young Cuckoo ; since even the well known fact , that this business is entrusted to the care of other birds , has been controverted by an Author who has lately written on this subject * ; and since , as it is a fact so much out of the ordinary course of nature , it may still probably be disbelieved by others .
* The Hon. DAINES BARRINGTON .
EXAMPLE I. The Titlark is frequently selected by the Cuckoo to take charge of its young one ; but as it is a bird less familiar than many that I have mentioned , its nest is not so often discovered .
I have , nevertheless , had several Cuckoo 's eggs brought to me that were found in Titlark 's nests ; and had one opportunity of seeing the young Cuckoo in the nest of this bird : I saw the old birds feed it repeatedly , and , to satisfy myself that they were really Titlarks , shot them both , and found them to be so .
EXAMPLE II .
A Cuckoo laid her egg in a Water-wagtail 's nest in the thatch of an old cottage .
The Wagtail sat her usual time , and then hatched all the eggs but one ; which , with all the young ones , except the Cuckoo , was turned out of the nest .
The young birds , consisting of five , were found upon a rafter that projected from under the thatch , and with them was the egg , not in the least injured .
On examining the egg , I found the young Wagtail it contained quite perfect , and just in such a state as birds are when ready to be disengaged from the shell .
The Cuckoo was reared by the Wagtails till it was nearly capable of flying , when it was killed by an accident .
EXAMPLE III .
A Hedge-sparrow built her nest in a hawthorn bush in a timber-yard : after she had laid two eggs , a Cuckoo dropped in a third .
The Sparrow continued laying , as if nothing had happened , till she had laid five , her usual number , and then sat. June 20 , 1786 .
On inspecting the nest I found , that the bird had hatched this morning , and that every thing but the young Cuckoo was thrown out .
Under the nest I found one of the young Hedge-sparrows dead , and one egg by the side of the nest entangled with the coarse woody materials that formed its outside covering .
On examining the egg , I found one end of the shell a little cracked , and could see that the Sparrow it contained was yet alive .
It was then restored to the nest , but in a few minutes was thrown out .
The egg being again suspended by the outside of the nest , was saved a second time from breaking .
To see what would happen if the Cuckoo was removed , I took out the Cuckoo , and placed the egg containing the Hedge-sparrow in the nest in its stead .
The old birds , during this time , flew about the spot , showing signs of great anxiety ; but when I withdrew , they quickly came to the nest again .
On looking into it in a quarter of an hour afterwards , I found the young one completely hatched , warm and lively .
The Hedge-sparrows were suffered to remain undisturbed with their new charge for three hours ( during which time they paid every attention to it ) when the Cuckoo was again put into the nest .
The old Sparrows had been so much disturbed by these intrusions , that for some time they showed an unwillingness to come to it : however , at length they came , and on examining the nest again in a few minutes , I found the young Sparrow was tumbled out .
It was a second time restored , but again experienced the same fate .
From these experiments , and supposing , from the feeble appearance of the young Cuckoo just disengaged from the shell , that it was utterly incapable of displacing either the egg or the young Sparrows , I was induced to believe , that the old Sparrows were the only agents in this seeming unnatural business ; but I afterwards clearly perceived the cause of this strange phenomenon , by discovering the young Cuckoo in the act of displacing its fellow-nestlings , as the following relation will fully evince .
June 18 , 1787 , I examined the nest of a Hedge-sparrow , which then contained a Cuckoo 's and three Hedge-sparrow 's eggs .
On inspecting it the day following , I found the bird had hatched , but that the nest now contained only a young Cuckoo and one young Hedge-sparrow .
The nest was placed so near the extremity of a hedge , that I could distinctly see what was going forward in it ; and , to my astonishment , saw the young Cuckoo , though so newly hatched , in the act of turning out the young Hedge-sparrow .
The mode of accomplishing this was very curious .
The little animal , with the assistance of its rump and wings , contrived to get the bird upon its back , and making a lodgement for the burden by elevating its elbows , clambered backward with it up the side of the nest till it reached the top , where resting for a moment , it threw off its load with a jerk , and quite disengaged it from the nest .
It remained in this situation a short time , feeling about with the extremities of its wings , as if to be convinced whether the business was properly executed , and then dropped into the nest again .
With these ( the extremities of its wings ) I have often seen it examine , as it were , an egg and nestling before it began its operations ; and the nice sensibility which these parts appeared to possess seemed sufficiently to compensate the want of sight , which as yet it was destitute of .
I afterwards put in an egg , and this , by a similar process , was conveyed to the edge of the nest , and thrown out .
These experiments I have since repeated several times in different nests , and have always found the young Cuckoo disposed to act in the same manner .
In climbing up the nest , it sometimes drops its burden , and thus is foiled in its endeavours ; but , after a little respite , the work is resumed , and goes on almost incessantly till it is effected .
It is wonderful to see the extraordinary exertions of the young Cuckoo , when it is two or three days old , if a bird be put into the nest with it that is too weighty for it to lift out .
In this state it seems ever restless and uneasy .
But this disposition for turning out its companions begins to decline from the time it is two or three till it is about twelve days old , when , as far as I have hitherto seen , it ceases .
Indeed , the disposition for throwing out the egg appears to cease a few days sooner ; for I have frequently seen the young Cuckoo , after it had been hatched nine or ten days , remove a nestling that had been placed in the nest with it , when it suffered an egg , put there at the same time , to remain unmolested .
The singularity of its shape is well adapted to these purposes ; for , different from other newly-hatched birds , its back from the scapulae downwards is very broad , with a considerable depression in the middle .
This depression seems formed by nature for the design of giving a more secure lodgement to the egg of the Hedge-sparrow , or its young one , when the young Cuckoo is employed in removing either of them from the nest .
When it is about twelve days old , this cavity is quite filled up , and then the back assumes the shape of nestling birds in general .
Having found that the old Hedge-sparrow commonly throws out some of her own eggs after her nest has received the Cuckoo 's , and not knowing how she might treat her young ones if the young Cuckoo was deprived of the power of dispossessing them of the nest , I made the following experiment .
July 9 .
A young Cuckoo , that had been hatched by a Hedge-sparrow about four hours , was confined in the nest in such a manner that it could not possibly turn out the young Hedge-sparrows which were hatched at the same time , though it was almost incessantly making attempts to effect it .
The consequence was , the old birds fed the whole alike , and appeared in every respect to pay the same attention to their own young as to the young Cuckoo , until the 13th , when the nest was unfortunately plundered .
The smallness of the Cuckoo 's egg in proportion to the size of the bird is a circumstance that hitherto , I believe , has escaped the notice of the ornithologist .
So great is the disproportion , that it is in general smaller than that of the House-sparrow : whereas the difference in the size of the birds is nearly as five to one .
I have used the term in general , because eggs produced at different times by the same bird vary very much in size .
I have found a Cuckoo 's egg so light that it weighed only forty-three grains , and one so heavy that it weighed fifty-five grains .
The colour of the Cuckoo 's eggs is extremely variable .
Some , both in ground and penciling , very much resemble the House-sparrow 's ; some are indistinctly covered with brancoloured spots ; and others are marked with lines of black , resembling , in some measure , the eggs of the Yellow-hammer .
The circumstance of the young Cuckoo 's being destined by nature to throw out the young Hedge-sparrows , seems to account for the parent-cuckoo 's dropping her egg in the nests of birds so small as those I have particularised .
If the were to do this in the nest of a bird which produced a large egg , and consequently a large nestling , the young Cuckoo would proVOL .
LXXVIII .
Ii bably bably find an insurmountable difficulty in solely possessing the nest , as its exertions would be unequal to the labour of turning out the young birds* .
Besides , though many of the larger birds might have fed the nestling Cuckoo very properly , had it been committed to their charge , yet they could not have suffered their own young to have been sacrificed , for the accommodation of the Cuckoo , in such great number as the smaller ones , which are so much more abundant ; for though it would be a vain attempt to calculate the numbers of nestlings destroyed by means of the Cuckoo , yet the slightest observation would be sufficient to convince us that they must be very large .
Here it may be remarked , that though nature permits the young Cuckoo to make this great waste , yet the animals thus destroyed are not thrown away or rendered useless .
At the season when this happens , great numbers of tender quadrupeds and reptiles are seeking provision ; and if they find the callow nestlings which have fallen victims to the young Cuckoo , they are furnished with food well adapted to their peculiar state .
It appears a little extraordinary , that two Cuckoo 's eggs should ever be deposited in the same nest , as the young one produced from one of them must inevitably perish ; yet I have known two instances of this kind , one of which I shall relate .
*I have known an instance in which a Hedge-sparrow fat upon a Cuckoo 's egg and one of her own .
Her own egg was hatched five days before the Cuckoo 's , when the young Hedge-sparrow had gained such a superiority in size that the young Cuckoo had not powers sufficient to lift it out of the nest till it was two days old , by which time it was grown very considerably .
This egg was probably laid by the Cuckoo several days after the Hedge-sparrow had begun to sit ; and even in this case it appears , that its presence had created the disturbance before alluded to , as all the Hedge-sparrow 's eggs were gone except one .
June 27 , 1787 .
Two Cuckoos and a Hedge-sparrow were hatched in the same nest this morning ; one Hedge-sparrow 's egg remained unhatched .
In a few hours after , a contest began between the Cuckoos for the possession of the nest , which continued undetermined till the next afternoon ; when one of them , which was somewhat superior in size , turned out the other , together with the young Hedge-sparrow and the unhatched egg .
This contest was very remarkable .
The combatants alternately appeared to have the advantage , as each carried the other several times nearly to the top of the nest , and then sunk down again , oppressed by the weight of its burden ; till at length , after various efforts , the strongest prevailed , and was afterwards brought up by the Hedge-sparrows .
I come now , Sir , to consider the principal matter that has agitated the mind of the naturalist respecting the Cuckoo : why , like other birds , it should not build a nest , incubate its eggs , and rear its own young ?
There is certainly no reason to be assigned from the formation of this bird why , in common with others , it should not perform all these several offices ; for it is in every respect perfectly formed for collecting materials and building a nest .
Neither its external shape nor internal structure prevent it from incubation ; nor is it by any means incapacitated from bringing food to its young .
It would be needless to enumerate the various opinions of authors on this subject from ARISTOTLE to the present time .
Those of the ancients appear to be either visionary , or erroneous ; and the attempts of the moderns towards its investigation have been confined within very narrow limits ; for they have gone but little farther in their researches than to examine the constitution and structure of the bird , and having found it possessed of a capacious stomach with a thin external covering , concluded that the pressure upon this part , in a sitting posture , prevented incubation .
They have not considered that many of the birds which incubate have stomachs analogous to those of Cuckoos : the stomach of the Owl , for example , is proportionably capacious , and is almost as thinly covered with external integuments .
Nor have they considered , that the stomachs of nestlings are always much distended with food ; and that this very part , during the whole time of their confinement to the nest , supports , in a great degree , the weight of the whole body ; whereas , in a sitting bird , it is not nearly so much pressed upon ; for the breast in that case fills up chiefly the cavity of the nest , for which purpose , from its natural convexity , it is admirably well fitted .
These observations , I presume , may be sufficient to show that the Cuckoo is not rendered incapable of sitting through a peculiarity either in the situation or formation of the stomach ; yet , as a proof still more decisive , I shall lay before you the following fact .
In the summer of the year 1786 , I saw , in the nest of a Hedgesparrow , a Cuckoo , which , from its size and plumage , appeared to be nearly a fortnight old .
On lifting it up in the nest , I observed two Hedge sparrow 's eggs under it .
At first I supposed them part of the number which had been sat upon by the Hedge-sparrow with the Cuckoo 's egg , and that they had become addle , as birds frequently suffer such eggs to remain in their nests with their young ; but on breaking one of them I found it contained a living faetus ; so that of course these eggs must have been laid several days after the Cuckoo was hatched , as the latter now completely filled up the nest , and was by this peculiar incident performing the part of a sittingbird * .
Having under my inspection , in another Hedge-sparrow 's nest , a young Cuckoo , about the same size as the former , I procured two Wagtail 's eggs which had been sat upon a few days , and had them immediately conveyed to the spot , and placed under the Cuckoo .
On the ninth day after the eggs had been in this situation , the person appointed to superintend the nest ( as it was some distance from the place of my residence ) came to inform me , that the Wagtails were hatched .
On going to the place , and examining the nest , I found nothing in it but the Cuckoo and the shells of the Wagtail 's eggs .
The fact , therefore , of the birds being hatched , I do not give you as coming immediately under my own eye ; but the testimony of the person appointed to watch the nest was corroborated by that of another witness .
To what cause then may we attribute the singularities of the Cuckoo ?
May they not be owing to the following circumstances ?
The short residence this bird is allowed to make in the country where it is destined to propagate its species , and the call that nature has upon it , during that short residence , to produce a numerous progeny .
The Cuckoo 's first appearance here is about the middle of April , commonly on the 17th .
Its egg is not ready for incubation till some weeks after its arrival , seldom before the middle of May .
A fortnight is taken up by the sitting bird in hatching the egg .
The young bird generally continues three weeks in the nest before it flies , and the * At this time I was unacquainted with the fact , that the young Cuckoo turned out the eggs of the Hedge-sparrow ; but it is reasonable to conclude , that it had lost the disposition for doing this when these eggs were deposited in the nest .
foster-parents feed it more than five weeks after this period ; so that , if a Cuckoo should be ready with an egg much sooner than the time pointed out , not a single nestling , even one of the earliest , would be fit to provide for itself before its parent would be instinctively directed to seek a new residence , and be thus compelled to abandon its young one ; for old Cuckoos take their final leave of this country the first week in July .
Had nature allowed the Cuckoo to have staid here as long as some other migrating birds , which produce a single set of young ones ( as the Swift or Nightingale , for example ) , and had allowed her to have reared as large a number as any bird is capable of bringing up at one time , these might not have been sufficient to have answered her purpose ; but by sending the Cuckoo from one nest to another , she is reduced to the same state as the bird whose nest we daily rob of an egg , in which case the stimulus for incubation is suspended .
Of this we have a familiar example in the common domestic fowl .
That the Cuckoo actually lays a great number of eggs , dissection seems to prove very decisively .
Upon a comparison I had an oppur tunity of making between the ovarium , or racemus vitellorum , of a female Cuckoo , killed just as she had begun to lay , and of a pullet killed in the same state , no essential difference appeared .
The uterus of each contained an egg perfectly formed , and ready for exclusion ; and the ovarium exhibited a large cluster of eggs gradually advanced from a very diminutive size , to the greatest the yolk acquires before it is received into the oviduct .
The appearance of one killed on the third of July was very different .
In this I could distinctly trace a great number of the membranes which had discharged yolks into the oviduct ; and one of them appeared as if it had parted with a yolk the preceding day .
The ovarium still exhibited a cluster of enlarged eggs ; but the most forward of them was scarcely larger than a mustard-seed .
I would not be understood , Sir , to advance that every egg which swells in the ovarium at the approach or commencement of the propagating season is brought to perfection ; but it appears clearly , that a bird , in obedience to the dictates of her own will , or to some hidden cause in the animal oeconomy , can either retard or bring forward her eggs .
Besides the example of the common fowl above alluded to , many others occur .
If you destroy the nest of a Blackbird , a Robin , or almost any small bird , in the spring , when she has laid her usual number of eggs , it is well known to every one , who has paid any attention to enquiries of this kind , in how short a space of time she will produce a fresh set .
Now , had the bird been suffered to have proceeded without interruption in her natural course , the eggs would have been hatched , and the young ones brought to a state capable of providing for themselves , before she would have been induced to make another nest , and excited to produce another set of eggs from the ovarium .
If the bird had been destroyed at the time she was sitting on her first laying of eggs , dissection would have shown the ovarium containing a great number in an enlarged state , and advancing in the usual progressive order .
Hence it plainly appears , that birds can keep back or bring forward ( under certain limitations ) their eggs at any time during the season appointed for them to lay ; but the Cuckoo , not being subject to the common interruptions , goes on laying from the time she begins , till the eve of her departure from this country : for although old Cuckoos in general take their leave the first week in July ( and I never could see one after the 5th day of that month * ) , yet I have known an instance of an egg 's being hatched in the nest of a Hedge-sparrow so late as the 15th .
And a farther proof of their continuing to lay till the time of their leaving us may , I think , be fairly deduced from the appearances on dissection of the female Cuckoo above-mentioned , killed on the 3d of July .
Among the many peculiarities of the young Cuckoo , there is one that shows itself very early .
Long before it leaves the nest , it frequently , when irritated , assumes the manner of a bird of prey , looks ferocious , throws itself back , and pecks at any thing presented to it with great vehemence , often at the same time making a chuckling noise like a young hawk .
Sometimes , when disturbed in a smaller degree , it makes a kind of hissing noise , accompanied with a heaving motion of the whole body ~ .
The growth of the young Cuckoo is uncommonly rapid .
The chirp is plaintive , like that of the Hedge-sparrow ; but the found is not acquired from the foster-parent , as it is the same whether it be reared by the Hedge-sparrow , or any other bird .
It never acquires the adult note during its stay in this country .
The stomachs of young Cuckoos contain a great variety of food .
On dissecting one that was brought up by Wagtails , * Though I am unacquainted with an instance , yet I conceive it possible , that here and there a straggling Cuckoo may be seen after this time .
~ Young animals , being deprived of other modes of defence , are probably endowed with the powers of exciting fear in their common enemies .
If you but slightly touch the young Hedge-hog , for instance , before it becomes fully armed with its prickly coat , the little animal jumps up with a sudden spring , and imitates very closely the sound of the word bush !
as we pronounce it in a loud whisper .
This disposition is apparent in many other animals .
and fed by them at the time it was shot ( though it was nearly of the size and fulness of plumage of the parent-bird ) I found in its stomach the following substances .
Flies and Beetles of various kinds .
Small Snails , with their shells unbroken .
Grasshoppers .
Caterpillars .
Part of a Horse-bean .
A vegetable substance resembling bits of tough grass , rolled into a ball .
The seeds of a vegetable that resembled those of the goosegrass .
In the stomach of one fed by Hedge-sparrows , the contents were almost entirely vegetable ; such as wheat , small vetches , &amp;c. But this was the only instance of the kind I had ever seen , as these birds , in general , feed the young Cuckoo with scarcely any thing but animal food .
However , it served to clear up a point which before had somewhat puzzled me ; for having found the Cuckoo 's egg in the nest of a green linnet , which begins very early to feed its young with vegetable food , I was apprehensive , till I saw this fact , that this bird would have been an unfit foster-parent for the young Cuckoo .
The Titlark , I observe , feeds it principally with Grasshoppers .
But the most singular substance , so often met with in the stomachs of young Cuckoos , is a ball of hair curiously wound up .
I have found it of various sizes , from that of a pea to that of a small nutmeg .
It seems to be composed chiefly of Horse-hairs , and from the resemblance it bears to the inside covering of the nest , I conceive the bird swallows it while a nestling .
In the stomachs of old Cuckoos I have often seen masses of hair ; but these had evidently once formed a part of the hairy Caterpillar , which the Cuckoo often takes for its food .
There seems to be no precise time fixed for the departure of young Cuckoos .
I believe they go off in succession , probably as soon as they are capable of taking care of themselves ; for although they stay here till they become nearly equal in size and growth of plumage to the old Cuckoo , yet in this very state the fostering care of the Hedge-sparrow is not withdrawn from them .
I have frequently seen the young Cuckoo of such a size that the Hedge-sparrow has perched on its back , or half-expanded wing , in order to gain sufficient elevation to put the food into its mouth .
At this advanced stage , I believe that young Cuckoos procure some food for themselves ; like the young rook , for instance , which in part feeds itself , and is partly fed by the old ones till the approach of the pairing season .
If they did not go off in succession , it is probable we should see them in large numbers by the middle of August ; for as they are to be found in great plenty * , when in a nestling state , they must now appear very numerous , since all of them must have quitted the nest before this time .
But this is not the case ; for they are not more numerous at any season than the parent birds are in the months of May and June .
The same instinctive impulse which directs the Cuckoo to deposit her eggs in the nests of other birds , directs her young one to throw out the eggs and young of the owner of the nest .
The scheme of nature would be incomplete without it ; for it would be extremely difficult , if not impossible , for the little birds , destined to find succour for the Cuckoo , to find it also *I have known four young Cuckoos in the nests of Hedge-sparrows in a small paddock at the same time .
for their own young ones , after a certain period ; nor would there be room for the whole to inhabit the nest .
Thus , Sir , I have , with much pleasure , complied with your request ; and here lay before you such observations as I have hitherto been capable of making on the natural history of the Cuckoo ; and should they throw some light on a subject that has long lain hid in obscurity , I shall not think my time has been ill employed .
With a grateful sense of the many obligations I owe to the friendship with which you have so long honoured me , I remain , &amp;c. EDW .
JENNER .
Berkeley , December 27 , 1787 .

