316 Rev. S. J. Perry .
On the [ May 5 , May 5 , 1887 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows:\#151 ; Buchanan , John Young , M.A. E Cash , John Theodore , M.D. K Douglass , Sir James Nicholas , L M.I.C.E. Ewing , Prof. James Alfred , B.Sc. P Forbes , Prof. George , M.A. Gowers , William Richard , M.D. S Kennedy , Prof. Alexander B. W. , V\ M.I.C.E. M The following Papers were read:\#151 ; King , George , M.B. Kirk , Sir John , M.D. Lodge , Prof. Oliver Joseph , D.Sc .
Milne , Prof. John , F.G.S. Pickard-Cambridge , Rev. Octavius , M.A. Snelus , George James , F.C.S. Walsingham , Thomas , Lord .
Whitaker , William , B.A. I. " Report of the Observations of the Total Solar Eclipse of August 29 , 1886 , made at Carriacou .
" By the Rev. S. J. Perry , S.J. , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) Carriacou is a small island situated about twenty miles to the north of the island of Grenada , the chief of the Windward group , and furnished an excellent site for the observation of the last solar eclipse .
Most of the observers sent by the Eclipse Committee of the Royal Society to the West Indies in August of last year remained at Grenada , or on the small islands in its immediate vicinity , whilst Mr. Maunder and myself occupied the more distant northern station , where the totality was slightly diminished in duration .
The work proposed for Mr. Maunder was to secure a series of photographs of the corona , with exposures of 40s .
and under , and also to obtain two photographs of the spectrum of the corona with the longest exposures possible .
The coronal pictures were successful , and they are at present in the hands of Mr. Wesley , Assistant Secretary of 1887 .
] Total Solar Eclipse of August 29 , 1886 .
the Royal Astronomical Society .
The results of his careful examination , and of the collation of this with other eclipse photographs , will form the subject of a later communication .
The spectroscopic cameras mounted on the same equatorial framework failed to give any useful result .
The instrument used by myself was a 5^-inch equatorial , by Alvan Clark , with a Rowland grating 14,438 lines to the inch , and the work assigned by the Committee was an examination of the spectrum of the inner corona immediately before and after totality , and a search for the carbon bands during totality. .
I was assisted by Sub-Lieutenant Helby , of H.M.S. " Sparrowhawk , " who pointed the slit of the spectroscope , whilst my undivided attention was given to the bi'ight lines in the field of view of the small observing telescope .
The object glass cast a most perfect picture of the corona on the white enamelled cap of the slit plate , so there could have been no difficulty in directing the slit to any assigned position .
In the search during totality for the carbon bands x and / 3 , which should have been well within the field of view , extending as it did from wave-length 5600 to considerably beyond b , the radial slit was placed near the solar equator , at distances from the moon 's limb varying from 0-l to 0'5 of a solar diameter , and was then removed to one of the sun 's poles , and placed tangentially at successive distances as before .
In none of these positions could I detect the slightest trace of the carbon bands .
The conclusion indicated by these observations seems to be that the vapour of carbon , if present in 1886 , was not of sufficient intensity to make an appreciable impression on the retina .
The dispersion was considerable , as I was using the second order of spectrum with a power of about 4 , but the fainter lines in the solar spectrum , and the coronal lines when seen , were so distinct , that I scarcely think the dispersion could have been excessive .
The observations both before and after totality were greatly interfered with by the clouds and heavy rain , but although rain fell within a few ' minutes from the beginning , and also very soon after totalitjr , the sun seemed perfectly clear during the whole of the totality itself .
As soon as the sun broke through the clouds and became visible on the slit of the spectroscope , Lieutenant Helby placed the slit at the centre of the rapidly decreasing crescent , and the first line that I detected was 1474 K , which extended to a distance of perhaps 8 ' from the limb .
Almost at the same instant I saw a mass of lines of unequal length situated on the less refrangible side of 6 , but in close proximity to it .
Their number I estimated at about 15 , but I could form no idea of their relative intensities .
This observation seems to favour the view that the absorption producing the Fraunhofer lines takes place in successive layers of the solar atmosphere , and not in any one layer exclusively .
Within 20s .
from the end of totality , the Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On [ May 5 , radial slit being as near as possible to the point of reappearance the whole field was crowded with bright lines , fifty or more being visible in the short space between wave-length 5600 and b. I noticed no difference in the length of these lines .
Clouds and rain soon put an end to all chance of further observations .
' Interesting sketches were made during totality of the outer streamers by Captain Masterman and Mr. Osborn , of H.M.S. " Bullfrog , " who both used the circular disks arranged so as to cover the brighter portions of the inner corona .
The instantaneous view that I obtained of the corona , most exquisitely defined on the white cap of the spectroscope , and the rapid glance I took with an excellent binocular , confirm the positions of the two principal rays drawn by Captain Masterman , but I observed at the same time a shorter ray between the two , which appears otherwise to have escaped detection , and I noticed the leaf-shaped curvature of the ray in the north-west .
The darkness was never much less than that of a fair moonlight night .
II .
" Note on the Microscopic Structure of Rock Specimens from three Peaks in the " Caucasus .
" By T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. .
Professor of Geology in University College , London .
Received April 5 , 1887 .
Although our knowledge of the petrology of the Caucasus has been considerably augmented of late years through the labours of Abich , Favre , Tschermak , and others , so much ground still remains untrodden among its mountain peaks that hardly any specimen can be entirely without interest .
Those described in the present note have come from the following localities:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The summit of Tau Tetnuld ; ( 2 ) rocks from the upper part of Guluku ; ( 3 ) the summit of Elbruz .
The specimens from Tau Tetnuld and Guluku were collected by Mr. W. P. Donkin , during his expedition in company with Mr. Clinton Dent in the summer of 1886 , and to the former I am indebted for the following note on the localities .
" Tau Tetnuld is one of the peaks of the central Caucasian chain , in the great Koschtan-Tau group which lies about midway between Elbruz to the N.W. , and Kasbek to the E.S.E. From Koschtan-Tau the main ridge forming the watershed runs somewhat north of west , dropping gradually in height ; but for some three or four miles forming a magnificent wall on the northern side , covered with a succession of steep snow-slopes and hanging glaciers .
A long portion of this ridge , including three more or less well-marked elevations , is called Djanga ; the next elevation on the ridge\#151 ; a much more obvious one , forming indeed a symmetrical snow pyramid\#151 ; is Tau Tetnuld .

