A paper was read , entitled , " On the relation which subsists between the Nervous and Muscular Systems in the more perfect Any ?
mals , and the nature of the Influence by which it is maintained .
" By A. P. W. Philip , M.D. , F.R.S. L. &amp; E. The author , after referring to his former papers which have at different times been read to the Royal Society , and published in their Transactions , is led to view the brain and spinal marrow as the only active parts of the nervous system ; the nerves , whether belonging to the class of cerebral or ganglionic , together with their plexuses and ganglions , serving only as the means of conveying and combining the various parts of the former organs , and therefore being passive with reference to their functions .
This view of the subject is directly opposed to that which has been adopted by many physiologists , who consider these ganglions as the sources , and not the mere vehicles , of nervous influence .
In order to determine this point , the author made the following experiment on an animal that had been pithed so as to destroy its sensibility , while the action of the heart continued .
Under these circumstances , he applied mechanical irritation , and also various chemical agents , to the ganglions and plexuses of the ganglionic nerves , and found that the heart continued to beat with the same regularity as before , and with the same frequency of pulsation .
From these and other observations , the author concludes that the ganglionic system of nerves , with their plexuses and ganglions , performs the office of combining the influence of every part of the brain and spinal marrow , and of bestowing it on the muscles of involuntary motion , these muscles being subservient to those functions of life which require that combined influence j that the manner in which the influence of these organs affects the muscular fibre is not essentially different from that of other stimulants and sedatives - , and that this influence is not an agent peculiar to the nervous system , but is capable of existing elsewhere , and is consequently not a vital power , properly so called ?
a conclusion which appears to him to be confirmed from the circumstance that galvanism is capable of performing all its functions .
Hence he infers that the brain and spinal marrow , far from bestowing on the muscular fibre its peculiar power , only supplies an inanimute agent , which , like all other such agents , capable of affecting it , acts on it either as a stimulant or sedative , according to the degree in which it is applied , and is identical with the galvanic influence .

