Mr. E. A. Schafer on the [ Apr. 3 , all these , a single curve and table for reducing all the observations to the same zenith-distance was obtained , which proved to be nearly , but not quite , the same as that found by Professor Seidel for the light of the stars .
By employing the table thus deduced , and also reducing the heat-determinations obtained on the various nights for change of distance of the sun , a more accurate phase-curve was deduced , indicating a more rapid increase of the radiant heat on approaching full moon than was given by the formula previously employed , but still not so much as Professor Zollner 's gives for the moon 's light .
By employing Laplace 's formula for the extinction of light in our atmosphere , the heat-efEect in terms of the scale-readings was deduced , and an approximation to the height of the atmosphere attempted .
Prom a series of simultaneous measurements of the moon 's heat and light at intervals during the partial eclipse of November 14 , 1872 , when clouds did not interfere , it was found that the heat and light diminish nearly if not quite proportionally , the minimum for both occurring at or very near the middle of the eclipse , when they were reduced to about half what they were before and after contact with the penumbra .
April 3,1873 .
WILLIAM SHARPEY , M .D .
, Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; X. \lt ; \lt ; On the Structure of Striped Muscular Fibre .
" By Edward Albert Schafer .
Communicated by Dr. Sharpey , V.P.R.S. Received March 13 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) After premising that , owing to the rapidity with which changes set in after death , the subject in question can only properly be worked out whilst the muscular fibres are still living , the author proceeds to give the result of his investigations of the tissue in this condition .
The animal employed was the common large water-beetle , the muscles of the legs being taken .
These were examined entirely without addition , being either teazed out upon a glass slide in the ordinary way and covered with thin glass , or else prepared upon the latter , which was then inverted over a ring of putty after the method introduced by Strieker .
The author describes a muscular fibre as consisting^ of a groun substance appearing at first sight-to be formed of two distinct substances ( the one dim , the other bright in aspect , which are arranged in alternating disks disposed in successive series , with their planes at right angles to 1873 .
] Structure of Striped Muscular Fibre .
243 the axis o\#163 ; the fibre ) and of a vast number of minute rod-like particles , to which he applies the term muscle-rods , which are closely arranged side by side and parallel to the axis of the fibre , so as to form by their juxtaposition as many series as there are disks of dim substance in the fibre .
The main part or shaft of each muscle-rod is imbedded in and traverses a disk of dim substance , while the ends , which are enlarged at the extremity into little knobs or heads , extend into the bright disks .
These little knobs it is which give the appearance of the line of dots which has long been described as existing in the middle of each bright stripe ; when the fibre is somewhat extended this line appears double , owing to the separation of the heads of the two successive series of muscle-rods which meet in the middle of the disk of bright substance .
The author describes the rods as differing somewhat both in relative position and in form , these differences being accompanied by corresponding changes in the appearance of the ground-substance .
The principal changes are those of form .
Thus , in what the author is inclined to regard as the state of absolute rest , the rods are uniformly cylindrical without terminal enlargements ; in this case only a longitudinal fibrillation is to be seen in the fibre , all trace of transverse striping having disappeared .
In the normal state of slight tension , however , the rod-heads make their appearance , and with them the bright substance by which they are surrounded , so that the dim ground-substance now presents a transversely striated aspect .
In contraction of the muscle the heads of the rods become enlarged at the expense of the shaft , the extremities of each muscle-rod thus approaching one another : the enlarged heads , being closely applied both to the neighbouring ones of the same series and to those of the next series which meet them in the bright stripe , the line of dots now appears as a dark transverse band with bright borders .
As the contraction proceeds , and these dark bands approach one another , the bright borders encroach upon the dim stripe , which finally disappears , so that its place is taken up by a single transverse bright stripe .
Consequently contracted muscle shows alternate dark and light stripes ; the former , however , are in this case due to the enlarged juxtaposed extremities of the rods , the light on the other hand being mainly composed of the ground-substance which has become accumulated in the intervals between their shafts .
After giving a description of the appearances observed in transverse section , when examined in the normal state without addition , and after the consideration of those which are met with in sections from frozen muscle examined in ^ per eent .
solution of common salt , and which have been described by Cohnheim , the author proceeds to consider the nature of the ground-substance , and more especially the transversely striated appearance which it ordinarily presents .
' He gives it as his opinion that the ground-substance is in reality uniform in nature throughout , and that the bright bands which cross it are due to an optical effect produced 244 On the Structure of Striped Muscular Fibre .
[ Apr. 3 , by the presence of the globular heads of the muscle-rods , which have a different refractive index from that of the ground-substance .
That such an explanation is possible , is shown by the examination of minute oil-globules imbedded in gelatine , which appear under the microscope as dark spots with a bright surrounding , the juxtaposition of several such dots giving the effect of a bright band .
That the bright transverse bands in muscle are similarly produced by the juxtaposition of the rod-heads would appear from the following amongst other considerations 1 .
Where the rod-heads are smaller the bright bands are correspondingly narrower .
2 .
Where the rod-heads have become merged into the shafts , so as no longer to be seen as distinct objects , the bright transverse stripes have also entirely disappeared .
3 .
When in contraction the rod-heads enlarge and encroach on the shaft , their bright borders accompany them and encroach on the dim substance , so that at last all appearance of dimness becomes entirely obliterated , the bright borders becoming blended in the middle .
4 .
The part of the muscle-rod where the head joins the shaft is rendered indistinct by the brightness around the rod-head ; whereas if this brightness were inherent in the ground-substance , this part of the rod would stand out all the darker by the contrast .
5 .
The appearance of a transverse section is corroborated ; for in this case the rod-heads are seen so close together that the optical effect of any one would become merged into those of its neighbours : consequently the whole of the intermediate substance would appear bright ; and this is actually found to be the case .
6 .
The fact that both the dim and the bright substance of resting muscle appear doubly refracting would seem to indicate that they are of the same nature .
The author then proceeds to give the result of his investigations of the appearance of muscle under polarized light .
He finds that , as regards muscle at rest when placed between crossed Nicols , the whole fibre appears illuminated ; in the contracted state , on the other hand , the appearance is presented of illuminated stripes with dark intervals .
Ihe latter correspond with the lines formed by the juxtaposition of e enlarged ends of the muscle-rods ; these consequently are sing y refracting ( isotropous ) , and so , in all probability , are the shafts ot the muscle-rods ; they do not , however , stand out as blade streaks , since they are surrounded by doubly refracting ( anisotropous ) ground-substance , and are illuminated by the light which has previously traversed this .
In the same way it may readily be understood why , in the resting muscle also , the rods , although isotropous , do not appear as such .
The conclusion , then , that the author arrives at on t is pom is that the whole of the muscular fibre is anisotropous , with the excep ion of the muscle-rods .
1873 .
] Sir B. C. Brodie on the Synthesis of Marsh-gas , fyc .
245 Various observers are then quoted in support of the accuracy of the description given ; and the probability is pointed out , and supported by an observation of Prof. Briicke , that in all cases in which alternating disks of isotropous and anisotropous substances are observed , the muscular fibre is in a state of contraction ( although not necessarily shortened)\#151 ; that is to say that the anisotropous substance has become accumulated between the shafts of the rods , the isotropous disks being due to the rod-heads , between which there is no perceptible amount of anisotropous substance left remaining .
The author concludes the paper by offering a conjecture as to the nature of the substances which , according to his description , compose the proper substance of muscle , and as to the probable mode in which the contraction is effected .
He is inclined to regard the intermediate ground-substance as the true contractile part , and thinks that it may be allied in nature to ordinary protoplasm , the rods , on the other hand , being elastic structures , and merely serving to restore the fibre to its original length .
II .
" Note on the Synthesis of Marsh-gas and Formic Acid , and on the Electric Decomposition of Carbonic Oxide .
" By Sir B. C. Brodie , Bart. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , late Waynflete Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received April 3* , 1873 .
In connexion with the investigation on the electric decomposition of carbonic-acid gas referred to in a previous communication to the Society , I was led to submit a mixture of hydrogen and carbonic-oxide gas to the action of electricity in the induction-tube , the mixed gases being circulated through the tube by means of an apparatus which I will not now describe .
A contraction was soon observed to have taken place , which at the end of an hour amounted to 10 cub. centims. The rate of contraction steadily diminished , and during the fifth hour of the duration of the experiment amounted to only 2 cub. centims. The experiment was stopped , and the gas analyzed with the following results in two several analyses:\#151 ; I. Carbonic oxide ... . .
61*65 Hydrogen ... ... ... . .
32* 16 Marsh-gas ... ... ... . .
6*14 100*00 II .
Carbonic oxide ... ... 61*35 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... .32*34 M !
arsh-gas ... ... ... . .
6*31 100*00 A small quantity ( about 2 per cent. ) of nitrogen was also contained in * Received in nearly the same form March 27 .

