II .
" On the supposed Identity of Biliverdin with Chlorophyll , with remarkls on the Constitutioni of Chlorophyll .
" By G. G. STOKES , M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received February 25 , 1864 .
I have lately been enabled to examine a specimen , prepared by Professor Harley , of the green substance obtained from the bile , which has been named biliverdin , and which was supposed by Berzelius to be identical with chlorophyll .
The latter substance yields with alcohol , ether , chloroform , &amp;c. , soluitions which are characterized by a peculiar and highly distinctive system of bands of absorption , and by a strong fluorescence of a blood-red colour .
In solutions of biliverdiln these characters are wholly vanting .
There is , inideed , a vague minimum of transparency in the red ; but it is totally unlike the intensely sharp absorption-band of chlorophyll , nor are the other bands of chlorophyll seen in biliverdin .
In fact , no one who is in the habit of using a prism could suppose for a moment that the two were identical ; for an observation which can be made in a few seconds , which requires no apparatus beyond a small prism , to be used with the naked eye , and which as a matter of course would be made by any chemist work .
ing at the subject , had the use of the prism made its way into the chemical world , is sufficient to show that chlorophyll and biliverdin are quite distinct .
I may take this opportunity of mentioning that I have been for a good while engaged at intervals with any optico-chemical examination of chlorophyll .
I find the chlorophyll of land-plants to be a mixture of four substanees , two green and two yellow , all possessing highly distinctive optical properties .
The green substances yield solutionis exhibiting a strong red fluorescence ; the yellow substances do not .
The four substances are soluble in the same solvents , andthree of them are extremely easily decomposed by acids or even acid salts , such as binoxalate of potash ; but by proper treatment each may be obtained in a state of very approximate isolation , so far at least as coloured substances are coneerned .
The phyllocyanine of Fremy* is mainly the product of decomposition by acids of one of the green bodies , and is naturally a substance of a nearly neutral tint , showing however extremely sharp bands of absorption in its neutral solutions , but dissolves in certain acids and acid solutions with a greeni or blue colour .
Fremy 's phylloxanthiine differs according to the mode of preparation .
When prepared by removing the green bodies by hydrate of alumina and a little water , it is mainly onie of the yellow bodies ; but when prepared by hydrochloric acid and ether , it is mainly a mixture of the same yellow body ( partly , it may be , decomposed ) with the product of decomposition by acids of the second green body .
As the mode of preparation of phylloxantheine is rather hinted at than described , I caln only conjecture what the sub.stance is ; but I suppose it to be a mixture of the second yellow substance with the products of decompositioni of the other three bodies .
Green seaweeds ( Chlorospermew ) agree with land-plants , except as to the relative proportion of the substances present ; but in olive-coloured sea-weeds ( Melanospermece ) the second green substance is replaced by a third green substance , and the first yellow substance by a third yellow substance , to the presence of which the dull colour of those plants is due .
The red colouringmatter of the red sea-weeds ( JRhodosperrnetv ) , which the plants colntain in addition to cblorophyll , is altogether ; different in its nature from chlorophyll , as is already known , and would appear to be an albuminous substanice .
I hope , before long , to present to the Royal Society the details of these researches .
The paper concludes with a brief deduction of the observed laws of Conjugate and Secondary Joints from known mechanical principles .
II .
" ' On the supposed Identity of Biliverdin with Chlorophyll , with remarks on the Constitution of Chlorophyll .
" By G. G. STOKES , M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received February 25 , 1864 .
I have lately been enabled to examine a specimen , prepared by Professor Iarley , of the green substance obtained from the bile , which has been named biliverdin , and which was supposed by Berzelius to be identical with chlorophyll .
The latter substance yields with alcohol , ether , chloroform , &amp;c. , solutions which are characterized by a peculiar and highly distinctive system of bands of absorption , and by a strong fluorescence of a blood-red colour .
In solutions of biliverdin these characters are wholly wanting .
There is , indeed , a vague minimum of transparency in the red ; but it is totally unlike the intensely sharp absorption-band of chlorophyll , nor are the other bands of chlorophyll seen in biliverdin .
In fact , no one who is in the habit of using a prism could suppose for a moment that the two were identical ; for an observation which can be made in a few seconds , which requires no apparatus beyond a small prism , to be used with the naked eye , and which as a matter of course would be made by any chemist working at the subject , had the use of the prism made its way into the chemical world , is sufficient to show that chlorophyll and biliverdin are quite distinct .
I may take this opportunity of mentioning that I have been for a good while engaged at intervals with an optico-chemical examination of chlorophyll .
I find the chlorophyll of land-plants to be a mixture of four substances , two green and two yellow , all possessing highly distinctive optical properties .
The green substances yield solutions exhibiting a strong red fluorescence ; the yellow substances do not .
The four substances are soluble in the same solvents , and three of them are extremely easily decomposed by acids or even acid salts , such as binoxalate of potash ; but by proper treatment each may be obtained in a state of very approximate isolation , so far at least as coloured substances are concerned .
The phyllocyanine of Fremy* is mainly the product of decomposition by acids of one of the green bodies , and is naturally a substance of a nearly neutral tint , showing however extremely sharp bands of absorption in its neutral solutions , but dissolves in certain acids and acid solutions with a green or blue colour .
Fremy 's phylloxanthine differs according to the mode of preparation .
When prepared by removing the green bodies by hydrate of alumina and a little water , it is mainly one of the yellow bodies ; but when prepared by hydrochloric acid and ether , it is mainly a mixture of the same yellow body ( partly , it may be , decomposed ) with the product of decomposition by acids of the second green body .
As the mode of preparation of phylloxantheine is rather hinted at than described , I can only conjecture what the substance is ; but I suppose it to be a mixture of the second yellow substance with the products of decomposition of the other three bodies .
Green seaweeds ( Chlorospermee ) agree with land-plants , except as to the relative proportion of the substances present ; but in olive-coloured sea-weeds ( Melanospermece ) the second green substance is replaced by a third green substance , and the first yellow substance by a third yellow substance , to the presence of which the dull colour of those plants is due .
The red colouringmatter of the red sea-weeds ( Rhodospermece ) , which the plants contain in addition to chlorophyll , is altogether ; different in its nature from chlorophyll , as is already known , and would appear to be an albuminous substance .
I hope , before long , to present to the Royal Society the details of these researches .

