The reading of Mr. Christie 's paper was resumed and concluded .
Mr. Faraday , in his valuable papers entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity/ ' has advanced the proposition , that " when metals of different kinds are equally subject , in every circumstance , to magneto-electric induction , they exhibit exactly equal powers with respect to the currents which either are formed or tend to form in them ; " and " that the same is probably the case in all other substances .
" The author not being satisfied with the conclusiveness of the experiments adduced in support of this proposition , ?
in order to determine its correctness , subjected different metals directly to the same degree of magneto-electric excitation , in such a manner , that the currents excited in them should be in opposite directions ( as was the case in Mr. Faraday 's experiment ) , and also that these opposing currents should have the same facility of transmission ; so that the difference of their intensities , if any existed , might admit of measurement .
He then minutely describes the apparatus he contrived with this view , and which consisted of helices of copper and of iron wire , covered with silk , each making sixty-five turns , but in op ?
posite directions , and crossing each other alternately , and surround ?
ing a cylinder of soft iron , which was rendered magnetic by the apply ?
cation of the large magnet belonging to the Royal Society , which the Council had placed at his disposal while engaged in these researches .
The result of the experiment showed that the force of the currents from the copper helix considerably exceeded that from the iron helix , and appeared to be even more than double .
By a modification of the apparatus , he found that the intensities of the currents in the two wires were very accurately proportional to their conducting powers ; and hence the uniformity of the results obtained by Mr. Faraday is easily explicable .
The next object of Mr. Christie was to determine the order of the relative intensities and conducting power of several of the metals : but previously to engaging in this inquiry , he made a series of experiments , with a view of determining the law of intensities as depend ?
ing upon the length and diameter of the wire through which the current is transmitted .
For this purpose it was necessary to devise means of making and breaking the contact in as invariable a manner as pos ?
sible .
This he accomplished by letting the same weight fall from a constant height when the contact was to be broken , and suddenly relieving the cylinder of the tension caused by the same weight when the contact was to be formed .
He ascertained that portions of wire connected with the one which formed the circuit , but not included in the circuit itself , had scarcely any influence on the intensity of the current .
He then enters into various theoretical investigations as to the mode of deducing the absolute intensities of the currents in this mode of experimenting .
By comparing the intensity of the electricity in wires of one metal with that in wires of each of the others , by means of the arrangement described in the beginning of the paper , and taking a mean of the results , he found the relative intensities in the following metals to be , silver 1520 , gold 110(i , copper 1000 , zinc 522 , tin 253 , platinum 240 , iron 223 , and lead 124 .
The author compared these results with those obtained by Davy , Becquerel , Professor Cumming , and Mr. Harris , and states what he considers may have been the causes of the differences .
The second object of the author 's inquiry relates to the law of va ?
riation of the intensity of the electricity excited in wires of different diameters : for determining which he compares the effects of three different wires of which the diameters were in the proportion of 4 , 2 , and 1 .
The results occupy several tables : and the deduction from them , with regard to the law in question , is , that the intensity varies nearly as the square of the diameter : but several causes contribute to interfere with the accuracy of this determination , and to exhibit the power as a mean of 1 *844 instead of 2 ; the principal of which is the action of the coils upon each other .
By other methods , in which two wires of different lengths and dia ?
meters are placed so as to oppose each other in their effects , the ac ?
curacy of the conclusion that this power is the square , was satisfactorily established .
Hence he arrives at the general conclusion , that the intensity or conducting power varies as the mass or weight directly , and as the square of the length inversely .

