148 On Wave-lengths of Bays of High Ref Tangibility .
[ Apr. 19 April 19,1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for 1 them .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; I. " Measurements of the Wave-lengths of Rays of High Re- ) frangibility in the Spectra of Elementary Substances .
" By I W. N. Hartley , F.R.S.E. , \amp ; c. , Professor of ChemistryJ Royal College of Science , Dublin , and W. E. Adeney , F.C.Swj Associate of the Royal College of Science .
Communicated i ) by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received March 20,1 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The authors describe a method of taking photographs of diffraction spectra produced by a small Rutherfurd speculum ruled with 17,460 j lines to the inch .
The lines in the spectra were accurately measured J by the aid of a microscope magnifying 25 diameters and a dividing 1 engine .
The length of the spectra which were taken on three different plates was .
14 to 15 inehes , and the measurements were accurate to the a ^ 0th of an inch .
Prom these measurements the wave-lengths of the lines were calculated .
The spectra include lines with wave-lengths 4674 and 2024 .
They were produced by electric sparks condensed by a pane of glass coated with tin-foil .
Of the electrodes used , one always consisted of cadmium , the other of the metal or the solution of the metal , or other elementary substance , the wave-lengths of the lines of which was to be determined ; ~ thus all the spectra were referable to the cadmium lines .
Great accuracy is attainable by this method , and lines which have appeared identical or coincident in two different spectra , have thus been proved to differ in refrangibility .
All the spectra were compared with spectra obtained with the prism spectroscope described by one of the authors in the " Scientific Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Society , " vol. iii , Part III , April , -1881 .
Great care was exercised in taking the photographs , lest any irregularity in the surface of the plates should lead to inaccurate measurements .
Gelatine films on specially selected patent plate glass Im ] 0n the Limiting Thickness of Liquid Films .
149 j and such a precaution is quite necessary .
The photographs WereA certain number of lines measured by previous T * rsiTe been compared with the new measurements .
Taking lumbers given by ThaKSn , Lecoq de Boisbaudran , and Cornn for lines in the spectra of magnesium , me , cadmium , aluminium , indium thallium , iron , \amp ; c " a close agreement with their measurements spectroscope , which series of photographs is presented with the paper .
\gt ; A distinction is drawn between those lines determined directly with the crating and others too faint to be seen on diffraction photographs , whteh were measured by the aid of the prism spectroscope and an interpolation curve 9* metres in length .
The total number of hues measured and described is 2307 , namelyMagnesium , 42 ; sine , 151 ; cadmium , 141 r aluminium , 30 , indium , 104 ; thallium ?
0 ; jpper , 164 ; silver , 124 ; mercury , 80 ; carbon , 20 ; tin , 129 , lead , 88 , tellurium , 322 ; arsenic , 112 ; antimony , 211 ; bismuth , 1 , air , , a ' A'series of eighteen enlarged photographs , 36 inches in length , are presented with the paper , on which each line has its wave-leng written over it .
II .
" On the Limiting Thickness of Liquid Films .
" By A. W. Reinold , M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Royal Naval College , Greenwich , and A. W. Rucker , M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Yorkshire College , Leeds .
Received March 6 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The previous investigations of the authors have shown that the specific electrical resistance of a soap film thicker than 374 X 10 mm. is independent of the thickness , and that the composition of films formed of M. Plateau 's " liquid glycerique " may be largely altered by the absorption or evaporation of aqueous vapour which attends even slight changes in the temperature or hygrometric state of the air ( " Phil. Trans. , " Part II , 1881 , p. 447 ) .
In the present paper they describe a modified form of the apparatus which they previously employed .
* The glass case in which the films are produced is surrounded by water , and additional precautions are adopted for maintaining the aqueous vapour within it at the tension proper to the liquid of which the films are formed .
These changes

