[ 249 ] X. Evidence of a Large Extinct Lizard ( Notiosaurus dentatus , * Owen ) from Pleistocene Deposits , New South , Australia .
By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S.y \amp ; c. Received , January 9 , \#151 ; Read January 17 , 1884 .
[ Plate 12 .
] On the 19th November , 1883 , I received from Robt .
Etheridge , Jun. , Esq. , the subject of the present Paper , with the following memorandum which accompanied the specimen transmitted to him by Ch. S. Wilkinson , Esq. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , of the Department of Mines , Sydney .
" Portion of jaw and teeth from Cuddie Springs .
These springs are in pleistocene deposits full of bones of Diprotodon , Sthenurus , Crocodile , \amp ; c. , as far down as they have been sunk into\#151 ; viz. , 30 feet .
" The specimen was a small fragment , as will be seen by the annexed figures ; and to the bone were attached the bases of the crowns of two teeth .
These were of the size of the serial teeth of the Australian Crocodilus of similar shape , with longitudinally striated enamel .
Under the impression of Mr. Wilkinson 's note , I first compared them with the teeth in the series of Crocodilian skulls now exhibited in the Reptilian Gallery , of the Natural History Museum .
But , though a longitudinally-ridged enamel is common to the teeth of other than the Australian species , in none were the ridges so strongly developed .
Afterwards , submitting the fossil to a closer scrutiny , I observed that each ridge began by a pair of feebler ones rising from the root of the crown , and uniting after a course of from 2 to 5 millims.\#151 ; a character not shown by any of the Crocodilian teeth ; next , after close scrutin}^ of the broken portion of jaw to which the teeth were attached , I determined the parts of the bone which retained their natural unbroken surface .
The fossil in question was of a jet black colour , and the surface which I concluded to be the outer one of a dentary element of the mandible ( Plate 12 , fig. 1 , a ) shone as does a piece of polished jet .
Now such glistening exterior with perfect petrifaction characterises other fossil remains , especially of plants , from the same formations in Australia ; and , as to the coal* Gr .
vdrtos , australis ; axvpos , lacerta .
black colour shown in parts of such fossils , that also we find in some Mammalian fossils from our own tertiaries.* The bases of both teeth in the pleistocene fossil ( Plate 12 , figs. 2-5 , were anchylosed to the alveolar floor -continued from the outer wall a , and to this also was similarly anchylosed so much of the supposed part of the crown as remained of each tooth .
The portion of the jaw-bone continued from the inner surface of the anchylosed teeth showed a natural surface sloping away from the teeth upon so much as remained of the inner surface , a ' , of the dentary bone .
Here , therefore , were plain characters , not of a Crocodilian , but of a Lacertian mandible , and of a species of that division of the Lacertilia called " pleurodont."f Of existing Australian Lizards Chlamydosaurus is " acrodont ; " J Hydrosaurus is " pleurodontand , moreover , is the largest known existing Lacertian .
The base of the tooth in this species is striated , and that character is best shown on the inner side ( Plate 12 , fig. 8 ) , which is free from the bony parapet , according to the fashion exemplified in Notiosaurus ( Plate 12 , fig. 2 ) ; but with fewer and larger ridges .
I append figures , not .
size , of a portion of the jaw of Hydrosaurus gigas ( Plate 12 , figs. 7,8 ) , corresponding to the fossil .
The proportions of the outer wall , and of the base of the teeth thereto anchylosed , are the same ; such confluent part is , also , longitudinally ridged .
The pleurodont character prevails in both upper and under jaws , but the teeth are mostly wider apart in the mandible , and are juxtaposed as in the fossil , only in a small proportion of the dentigerous part .
At this stage of the comparison a vertical transverse section was taken of that end of the fossil to which the more fragmentary tooth was attached .
This section ( ib. , fig. 5 ) demonstrated the anchylosis of tooth to bone according to the pleurodont type .
A slice of the section was prepared for microscopic scrutiny .
Under a magnifying power of 120 the coarse lamellate disposition of the osseous tissue of the Lacertian mandible , the elongate bone-cells , and the fine plasmatic tubules , diverging from the vascular cells , were demonstrated at a , fig. 9 .
The basally attached portion of tooth showed the Lacertain vascularity of the part and the dentinal tubes radiating from the vascular canals , also the lamellate walls of the canals ( ib. , b ) .
Another character was brought to light by this section .
The remains of the pulp-cavity were seen , on first inspection of the fossil , in an aperture of 2 millims. diameter at the middle of the fractured surface of each tooth-crown , fig. 3 , c , c. On the Crocodilian hypothesis such aperture should expose a pulp-cavity widening as it receded from the enamelled crown .
In the section above described such cavity or continuation of the aperture was longitudinally traversed , and demonstrated its contracting to a termination at 6 millims. above the anchylosed base of the tooth ( Plate 12 , fig. 5 , c ) .
In Hydrosaurus the outer surface of the dentigerous part of the mandible is perforated by neuro-vascular apertures almost as numerous as the teeth , and about the * ' History of British .
Fossil Mammals , ' 8vo .
, 1846 , pp. 301 , 414 , 420 .
f ' Odontography , ' 8vo .
, 1845 , p. 240 , plates 67 ( Monitor ) , 68 ( Iguana ) .
J Ih .
, p. 241 .
FROM PLEISTOCENE DEPOSITS , NEW SOUTH WALES .
level of the base of the outer wall to which they are anchylosed .
This character is also manifested in the mandibular fragment of the Notiosaur .
The fossil has been broken away from the lower part of the ramus at the level of one of these apertures ( Plate 12 , fig. 1 , d ) , and the fracture exposes the common canal ( fig. 6 , d , e ) , which was traversed by the mandibular vessel , and the branch leading from that canal to open upon the outer surface , in the same relative position to the free margin of the outer wall , as in Hydrosaurus .
And now , it may be asked , why may not the fossil here described , which has clearly come from a saurian as large as Megalania , be part of an individual of that extinct Australian genus ?
True it is , that as yet I have received no portion of mandible so associated with the rest of the skull of Megalania as to enable me to make the requisite comparison .
But so much of the skull , with the upper jaw , as has been recovered indicates that such jaw was edentulous , sheathed with horn , as in Chelonia , * and could not have been opposed to a series of large , mandibular , conical , carnivorous teeth .
Such edentulous condition led to the inference that Megalania had been phytiphagous ; and , like many herbivorous Mammals , it was proved to be provided with formidable horns as defensive weapons.t In Notiosaurus we have evidence of a second form of Lacertian Reptile of ordinary Crocodilian dimensions , so far as these are indicated by the size and number of the piercing , lacerating teeth , of which the fossil in question shows samples .
I have taken the liberty to write to the Geologist of the Department of Mines , Sydney , requesting the loan of any other specimens from the Cuddie Springs which may have been regarded as Crocodilian . .
Description of the Plate .
PLATE 12 .
Notiosaurus den tat us .
Fig. 1 .
Portion of mandible , outside view .
Fig. 2 .
Ib .
ib. inside view .
Fig. 3 .
Ib .
ib. upper view .
Fig. 4 .
Ib .
ib. end view .
Fig. 5 .
Ib .
ib. vertical section of mandible and tooth-base .
Fig. 6 .
Ib .
ib. under view .
Fig. 9 .
Longitudinal slice of mandible and tooth-base , magnified 120 diameters .
Hydrosaurus gigas .
Fig. 7 , Portion of mandible , with two teeth ; outside view .
Fig. 8 .
Ib .
ib. inside view .
( All the figures , save fig. 9 , are of the natural size .
) * Phil. Trans. , 1880 , p. 1045 .
t Ib .
, p. 1048 .
Phxi .
Trans. 18841 Plate , \#166 ; yVest-TTevm)eaa \amp ; Co.irwp .

