56 Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ May 15 , III .
" On an Induction-Currents Balance , and Experimental Researches made therewith .
" By Professor D. E. Hughes .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received May 5 , 1879 .
Immediately upon the announcement of Arago 's discovery of the influence of rotating plates-of metal upon a magnetic needle ( 1824 ) , and Faraday 's important discovery of voltaic and magneto-induction ( 1831 ) , it became evident that the induced currents , , circulating in a metallic mass , might be so acted upon either by voltaic or induced currents as to bring-some new light to bear on the molecular construction of metallic bodies. .
The question was particularly studied by Babbage , Sir-John HerscheL , and by M. Dove* who constructed an induction balance , , wherein two separate induction coils , each having its .
primary and secondary coils , were joined together in .
such a manner that the induced current in one coil was made to neutralize the induced , current in the opposite coil , thus forming an induction balance , to which he gave the name of differential inductor .
In those days physicists did not possess the exquisitely sensitive galvanometers and other , means of research that we possess at the present day , but sufficiently important results w , er.e obtained to prove that a vast field of research would be opened if a perfect induction balance could be found , , together with a means of correctly estimating the results obtained .
In experimenting with the microphone I had ample occasion to appreciate the exquisite sensitiveness of the telephone to minute induced currents .
This led me to study the question of induction by aid of the telephone and microphone .
The results of those researches have been already published.t Continuing this line of inquiry , I thought 1 might again attempt to investigate the molecular construction , of metals and alloys , and with this object I have obtained , after numerous comparative failures , a perfect induction balance which is not only exquisitely sensitive and exact , but allows us to obtain direct comparative measures of the force or disturbances produced by the introduction of any metal or conductor .
The instrument which I have the honour to present to the Royal Society this evening , consists , 1st , of the new induction-currents balance ; 2nd , microphone , with a clock as a source of sound ; 3rd , electric sonometer , or absolute sound measurer , a late invention of my own ; 4th , a receiving telephone and three elements of Daniells ' battery .
* Pe la Rive , " Treatise on Electricity , " vol. i , chap .
y. London , 1853 .
t " Comptes Rendus , " December 30 , 1878 , and January 20 , 1879 ; Society of Telegraph Engineers , March 12 , 1879 .
Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ May 15 , its relative degree of increase ; and this measure may be expressed in the degrees of ' the millimetres passed through , or by the square of the distances in accordance with the curve of electro-magnetic action .
If we place in the coils of the induction balance a piece of metal , say copper , bismuth , or iron , we at once produce a disturbance of the balance , and it will give out sounds more or less intense on the telephone according to the mass , or if of similar sizes , according to the molecular structure of the metal .
The volume and intensity of sound is invariably the same for a similar metal .
If by means of the switching key the telephone is instantly transferred to the sonometer , and if its coil be at zero , we should hear sounds when key is up or in connection with the induction balance , and no sounds or silence when the key is down or in connexion with the sonometer .
If the sonometer coil was moved through several degrees , or through more than the required amount , we should .
find that the sounds increase when the key is depressed ; but when the coil is moved to a degree where there is absolute equality , if key is up or down , then the degree on scale should give the true value of the disturbance produced in the induction balance ; and this is so exact that if we put , say a silver coin whose value is 115 ' , no other degree will produce equality .
Once knowing , therefore , the value of any metal or alloy , it is not necessary to know in advance what the metal is , for if its equality is 115 ' , it is silver coin ; if 52 , iron ; if 40 , lead ; if 10 , bismuth ; and as there is a very wide limit between each metal , the reading of the value of each is very rapid , a few seconds sufficing to give the exact sound value of any metal or alloy .
During the course of these experiments with this instrument I noticed that my own hearing powers varied very much with state of health , weather , \amp ; c. , that different individuals had wide differences of hearing , and that nearly in all cases one ear was more sensitive than the other ; thus whilst my degree of hearing was 10 ' , another might be 60 in one ear and 15 in the other , * Dr. Richardson , F.R.S. , who upon my invitation investigated this su ject , became so impressed with the value of the instrument as an absolute measure of our hearing powers , and its capabilities of throwing much light upon its relation with health , that he has undertaken a series of researches which will extend over some time , and which I think from some facts already gained will be of great value to the handT\#171 ; J1 ' , eSS1'^ ' .
These experiments are now in his very able Society 6 WlU m dUe time announce tte results to the Royal below'* t lim|W * ' H W we hear results below this line ?
I should hare stated that when used to measure the power .
, we hare gir'nleTam"^2dioiIto .
''Sed " * mmmrer 0111 1879 .
] On an Induction-Currents Balance .
an1 determine on a constant standard of force such , as hearing P'we^ ] ^ but if we increase the number of elements one element |HhBh| ^ inductive disturbance , and'thus by a ve in same SIKH bring within our range results too feeble to be large increase o^^ ^ ^ sonometer constantly , however , giving the heard wit ou .
g as the increased force is also used on this same degree our measurements we can entirely neglect the instrumen ^ .
^ comparative results remain a constant , amoan ' 1 hhreeDaniell elements will be found quite sufficient , and \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; MM so exquisitely sensitive that it will find out even mm fraction of difference in weight or structure of metals .
Sm6 S two silver coins such as a shilling , both quite new , and both ibnS |gj 0f the same weight , will be found to possess a difference of Stwhich the instrument at once indicates .
snowing experiments will show its exceeding sensitiveness fl its wide field of usefulness as an instrument of research .
I If we introduce into one pair of the induction coils any conduct-\#166 ; \#166 ; as silver , copper , iron , \amp ; c. , there are set up in these bodies electric currents which react both upon the primary and secondary coils , - , producing extra currents whose force will die proportional to the mass , and to its specific conducting powers .
A mili-gramtne of copper on a fine iron wire , finer than the human hair , can be loudly heard and appreciated by direct measurement , and its exact yalue ascertained .
We can thus weigh to an almost infinitesimal degree the-mass of the metal under examination ; for instance , if we take two English shilling pieces fresh from the Mint , and if they are absolutely identical in form , weight , and material , they will be completely balanced by placing one each in the two separate coils , provided that for these experiments there is an adjustable resting place in each pair of coils , so that each coin may lie exactly in the centre of the vacant space between the primary and secondary coils .
If , however , these shillings are in the slightest degree worn , or have a different temperature , we at once perceive this difference , and if desired , measure it by the sonometer , or , by lifting the supposed heaviest coin at a slight distance from the fixed centre line , the amount of degrees that the heaviest coin is withdrawn will show its relative mass or weight as compared with the lightest , I have thus been able to appreciate the difference caused by simply rubbing the shilling bet ween the fingers , or the difference of temperature by simply breathing near the coils , and in order to reduce this sensibility within reasonable limits , I have only used in the following experiments 100 metres of copper wire to each coil and 3 cells of battery .
II .
The comparative disturbing value of disks of different metals , all of the same size and form of an English shilling , and measured in millimetre degrees , by the sonometer , is the following :\#151 ; 1879 .
] On an Induction-Currents Balance .
57 In order to have a perfect induction-currents balance suitable for physical research , all its coils as 'well as the size and amount of wire should be equal .
The primary and secondary coils should be separate and not superposed .
The exterior diameter of the coils presented this evening is 5^ centims. , having an interior vacant circular space of 3^ centims. ; the depth of this flat coil or spool is 7 millims. Upon this box-wood spool are wound 100 metres of No. 32 silk-covered copper wire .
I use four of such coils , formed into two pairs , the secondary coil being fixed permanently , or by means of an adjustable slide , at a distance of 5 millims. from its primary ; on the second similar pair there is a fine micrometer screw , allowing me to adjust the balance to the degree of perfection required. .
These two pair of coils should be placed at a distance not less , than 1 metre from each other , so that no disturbing cause should exist from their proximity .
The two primary coils are joined in series to the battery , the circuit also passing through the microphone. .
In place of the telephone I have sometimes used a magnetic pendulum , the swing of the arc described indicating and measuring the forces.* I am at present engaged upon a very sensitive voltameter which shall indicate and measure the force of rapid induced currents .
The telephone , however , is well adapted as an indicator , but not as a measurer of the forces brought into action .
For this reason I have joined to this instrument an instrument to which I have given the name of electric sonometer .
This consists of three coils similar to those already described , two of which are placed horizontally at a fixed distance of 40 eentims .
apart , and the communication with the battery is so arranged that there are similar but opposing poles in each coil ; between these there is a coil which can be moved on a marked sliding scale divided into millimetres ; in a line with these two opposing primary coils , the centre coil is , the secondary one , and connected by means of a \#166 ; 'circuit changing key with the telephone in place of the induction balance .
If this secondary coil is near either primary coil , we hear loud tones , due to its proximity .
The same effect takes place if the secondary coil is-near the opposing coil , except that the induced current is now in a contrary direction , as a similar pole of the primary acts now on .the opposite side of the induction coil ; the consequence- is , that as .
we withdraw it from one coil approaching the other , we must pass.a line of absolute zero , where no current whatever can be induced , owing to the absolutely equal forces acting equally on both sides of the induction coil .
This point is in the exact centre between the two coils , no matter how near or distant they may be .
We thus possess a sonometer having an absolute zero of sound ; each degree that it is moved is accompanied by * " Telegraphic Journal , " December 15 , 1878 .
60 Prof. D. Silver ( chemically pure ) ... ... 125 Gold " .
" ... ... 117 Silver ( coin ) ... ... ... ... ... .
115 Aluminium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 112 Copper ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 100 Zinc ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 80 Bronze ... ... .
... ... ... ... ... 76 Tin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 74 Iron ( ordinary ) ... ... ... ... ... 52 German silver ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 .
Hughes .
[ May 15 , Iron ( chemically pure ) ... ... .
45 Copper ( antimony alloy ) ... .
40 Lead ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
38 Antimony ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
35 Mercury ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
30 Sulphur ( iron alloy ) ... ... ... 20 Bismuth ... ... ... ... ... ... .
10 Zinc ( antimony alloy ) ... ... ... 6 Spongy gold ( pure ) . .
... ... . .
3 Carbon ( gas ) ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 These numbers do not agree entirely with any lists of electrical conductivity 1 have yet met with ; .
the- numbers are , however , invariably given by the* sonometer , and the divergence may be due to some peculiarity of structure of the metals when formed into disks .
Future investigations with this instrument will , no doubt , give more correct values than I have been able to obtain with my limited means of research .
III .
It will be seen from the above , that the- instrument gives very different values for different metals or alloys , consequently , we cannot obtain a balance by employing two disks of different metals , and the instrument is so sensitive to any variation in mass or matter , that it instantly detects the difference by clear laud tones- on the telephone .
If I place two gold sovereigns of equal weight and value , one in each coil , there- is- complete silence , indicating identity or equality between them ; but if one of them is a false- sovereign , or even gold of a different alloy , the fact is instantly detected fey the electrical balance being disturbed .
The instrument thus becomes a rapid and perfect coin detector , and can assay any alloy , giving instantly its electrical value. .
The exceeding sensitiveness of this electrical test I shall demonstrate^ by experiment this evening .
Again , as regards coins , it resolves an almost magical problem. .
Thus , if a person puts one or several coins into one pair of coils , the amount or nominal value being unknown to myself , I have only to introduce into the opposite coils , different coins successively , .
as I should weights in a scale , and when perfect balance is announced by the silence , the amount in one box will not only be the same nominal value but of the same kind of coin .
TV .
We find by direct experiment with this instrument , that the preceding results are due to electric currents , induced by the primary coil , and that it is by the reaction of these that the balance is destroyed , for , if we take an insulated spiral disk or helix of copper wire , with its terminal wires open , there is no disturbance of the balance whatever , notwithstanding that we have introduced a comparatively large amount of copper wire ; but on closing the circuit , the balance is at once very powerfully disturbed .
If the spiral is a flat one , resembling a disk of metal , and circuit closed , we find that loud tones result when the spiral is placed flat , or I 1879 .
] On an Induction-Currents Balance .
61 I when its wire is parallel to those on coils but if it is held at right I angles to these wires , no sound whatever is heard , and the balance I remains perfect .
The same thing occurs with disks of all non-I magnetic metals , and a disk of metal placed perpendicular to the coils I exerts no influence whatever .
The contrary result takes place with a I spiral of iron wire or disk of iron ; the induced current circulating in I the spiral is at its maximum when the spiral lies flat or parallel with I the coils , being reduced to nothing when at right angles , but the dis-I turbance of the induction balance is more than four 'times as great I when the spiral is perpendicular to the wires of the coils as when parallel with the same .
That this result is simply due to the property of magnetic bodies of conduction of magnetism , we shall see in some following experiments .
That the currents in non-magnetic metals travel in !
a circle corresponding to that of the primary coil , may be seen with spongy gold .
In its first extremely divided state it falls below our zero of hearing , [ on slightly -shaking the bottle we have 2 ' as its value , on pressing it its value rapidly increases with the pressure , until when formed into a solid disk its value becomes 117 ' .
V. The instrument proves , that a very remarkable difference 'exists in bars of iron of the same exact form and size , but of different origin or treated in a different manner ; in point of fact , no two bars , cut off of the same rod , and treated alike , are exactly of the same value , or induce a complete balance .
Mr. Stroh , the eminent instrument maker , has kindly furnished me with numerous samples , varying in value in degrees 'of the sonometer from 100 to 160 .
Chemically pure iron was found to be the best , but -still very slightly superior to ordinary iron , which had been drawn into a wire of the required thickness .
The fibrous condition thus developed is highly favourable ( if the iron is softened by heat ) for the conduction of magnetism .
From numerous examples I select a few indicative values :\#151 ; Chemically pure iron ... .
Softened .
160 Tempered .
130 Forged soft iron . .
150 125 Wire-drawn iron . . . .
156 120 Cast steel 120 100 VI .
As yet the instrument has given no indications of molecular change produced by magnetism in non-magnetic bodies , but the great change which takes place in all magnetic bodies , except hard-tempered cast steel , indicates that a molecular change of structure , analogous to that of tempering , takes place upon iron , steel , and nickel .
If we place a disk of iron in one of the coils , we find that the balance is destroyed , and that the iron has weakened the induction by 62 Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ May 15 , the absorption of work done in inducing thei circular currents .
This can be perfectly balanced by placing a small coin or disk of silver or copper in opposite coils ; but if an iron wire or rod is placed perpendicular to the coils , then increase of inductive force takes place in those coils by the conduction of induced magnetism from primary to secondary , and the iron can no longer be balanced by silver , copper , or any non-magnetic metal .
The coils must be either removed farther apart , so as to reduce the increased force , or balanced by an equivalent amount of iron or magnetic conduction in opposite coils .
An interesting case of both reduction and increase of force in the same pair of coils occurs if we place a disk of iron , not in the centre of coils , but in the vacant space between the coils .
We thus reduce the force by 150 ' .
If , in addition to this , we place iron wires perpendicular and in the centre , there is increase of force , and if this increase is so proportioned as to be 150 ' , we immediately restore the balance , and we have here in the same coil two sepaiute pieces of iron , each disturbing the balance and giving out loud tones , but producing no effect whatever , when both are introduced at the same time , complete silence being the result .
VII .
These coils prove what has already been long known , viz. , that hard steel has a far less conducting power for magnetism than soft iron , although the hard steel has a far higher retaining power .
This instrument demonstrates a point , which I have not yet seen remarked , that magnetism does not in itself change the conducting power , but that it produces a molecular change of structure in iron , analogous to that of tempering ; for if we balance two soft iron rods against each other , the balance being made perfect by the addition of fine iron wires on the weakest side , we find that on strongly magnetising this bar , by drawing it across a strong compound magnet , and on replacing it in its coil , it has lost 30 per cent , of its conducting power ; or if , instead of magnetising , we make this iron red hot and plunge it in cold water , the loss of conducting power will be very similar\#151 ; 25 to 30 ' .
If these experiments are repeated upon various degrees of iron approaching steel in character , we find that as it already possesses hardness or temper , it is less and less affected by magnetism , until we arrive at hard cast steel , where magnetism no longer produces any change in its conducting power .
From this I draw the conclusion that the effect of magnetism is very similar to that of temper , and shall show , under the effects of strain and torsion , that magnetism produces this temper or strain perpendicular to the lines of magnetic force .
VIII .
The instrument shows that a remarkable change takes place in the magnetic conducting power of iron and steel on subjecting the wire under examination to a longitudinal strain ; for if we pass an iron wire through the centre of both coils , half a millimetre diameter and On an Induction-Currents Balance .
\#166 ; 1879 .
] m 20 centims. or more in length , so arranged by a winding key that we J can apply a strain to this wire , we find a magnetic conducting value , I unstrained , of 100 , but on applying a slight strain its value rapidly J increases , being more than double at its breaking point .
If during I this strain we strike the wire , we hear its musical tone , and no matter I how much we may wind or unwind it , provided we do not pass its 1 limits of elasticity and similar wire is used , the same musical tone I will invariably give the same magnetic value .
Thus the note A , or 1 435 complete vibrations per second , gave always the magnetic value of I 160 , or 60 per cent , increase of power over the unstrained wire .
If I whilst this wire is strained , giving the value 160 , we magnetise it by I drawing over it a strong compound magnet , the note remains the same , I showing no difference of tension , but its magnetic value has fallen 80 ' , I being now 80 instead of 160 ; and this wire can never again be brought I by strain up to its previous high conducting powers .
Now as we have seen that magnetism produces no change in hard tempered steel , but that in soft iron it produces a change very analogous to that of temper ; and as the effect of strain would be also to harden the fibres by bringing them all parallel to the line of mechanical strain , and as this improves its conducting power , while magnetism instantly destroys all the benefits of the longitudinal mechanical strain , we can only draw the conclusion that magnetism produces a strain analogous to temper , but contrary to that of the longitudinal mechanical strain ; in other words , that the magnetic strain is produced perpendicularly to its lines of force .
This view is sustained by the effects of torsion ; for if , in place of straining the wire , it is twisted , instead of increasing , it rapidly decreases in magnetic conductive value , each turn or twist diminishing its power of conduction in a remarkably constant line of decrease .
At 80 turns of this wire there was a decrease of 65 per cent. ; at 85 turns the wire broke , and on testing it to see if magnetism had any decreasing effect on it , I found that it produced no change whatever ; but this twisted soft iron wire had now remarkable permanent retaining powers of magnetism , being superior to tempered cast steel .
Again , if we take three similar pieces of soft iron wire , leave the first for comparison in its natural condition , strain the second by a longitudinal strain until it is broken , and twist the third by a torsion-key until it also is broken ; we find on magnetising equally these three wires , and allowing ten minutes ' repose , that the first or untouched wire has a retaining power of magnetism of 100 , the second only of 80 , and the third , or twisted wire , of 300 .
I hope , by the light thus given , soon to be able to produce a magnet whose force shall be greatly in excess of what we have hitherto possessed ; our difficulty at present being that in order to temper steel , we must heat it to redness , and this allows the molecules to rearrange themselves contrary to the object we have in view .
On an Induction-Currents Balance .
[ May 15 , IX .
There is a marked difference of the rapidity of action between all metals , silver having an intense rapidity of action .
The induced currents from hard steel , or from iron strongly magnetised , are much more rapid than those from pure soft.iron ; the tones are at once recognised , the iron giving out a dull , heavy smothered tone , whilst hard steel has tones exceedingly sharp .
If we desire to balance iron , we can only balance it by a solid mass equal to the iron to be balanced .
Ho amount of fine wires of iron can balance this mass , as the time of discharge of these wires is much quicker than that of a larger mass of iron .
Hard steel , however , can be easily balanced not only by steel but by fine iron wires , and the degree of the fineness of these wires required to produce a balance gives a very fair estimate of the proportionate time of discharge .
The rapidity of discharge has no direct relation with the electrical -conductivity of the metal , for copper is much slower than zinc , and they are both superior to iron .
X. The instrument shows a marked difference in all metals , if subjected to different temperatures .
The value is reduced in non-mag-netic metals , and this we should expect from the known influence of temperature on the electrical conductivity ; but in the case of iron , steel , and nickel ( as it has already been remarked by many ) , the contrary takes place , namely , a far higher degree of magnetic conductivity .
A bar of soft iron , whose value at the temperat ure of the room , 20 ' C. , was 160 , became on heating it to 200 ' C. 300 , that is to say , its value was nearly doubled .
A bar of pure nickel , whose value at 20 ' was 150 , became on heating it to 200 ' , 320 ; thus , in the case of nickel , its value for magnetic conductivity was mere than doubled , and at this heat it surpassed the chemically pure iron at the same heat , giving a magnetic value of 320 against 300 for the iron , but at the normal temperature of 20 ' the iron had more magnetic power of conduction than nickel .
Heating nickel , by simply plunging it into boiling water , increased its force from 150 to 250 ; plunging this same bar into ordinary cold water reduced its value to 130 ; thus the mere difference of the normal temperature of the air in the room and water which had been in this room some hours produced 20 ' of difference .
In fact , I found that the radiant heat from the hand would raise the magnetic value several degrees , and thus nickel may be regarded as a magnetic thermometer far more sensitive than the ordinary mercurial Centigrade .
The instrument also measures the electrical resistance of wires or fluids .
In order to make it do this , we have only to place the resistance to be measured across the two wires of one induction coil and on the other known resistance units .
In this way we can produce a perfect balance , for it then becomes an induction bridge , the results and modes of testing of which are somewhat similar to Wheatstone 's bridge .
if 1879 .
] Dr. B. W. Richardson on the Audiometer .
65 It measures also the electrostatic capacity of Leyden jars or con-\gt ; 1 densers , and is sufficiently sensitive to appreciate and measure a surface t| of tinfoil not larger than 4 inches square , the condenser being simply fi placed between the wires of one pair of coils , and the disturbance pro-r| duced being measured on the sonometer .
I could cite many more interesting experiments in other branches :\lt ; f of physical research for which this instrument offers a wide field of 1 observation ; but my object this evening is neither to broach new Of theories nor to correlate at present the results obtained with views 2 already advanced by Ampere and others .
My only desire has been and is to show the wide field of research I the instrument opens to physical inquirers .
I trust that in more able I hands it may serve to elucidate many physical phenomena .
1 IV .
" Some Researches with Professor Hughes ' new Instrument for the Measurement of Hearing ; the Audiometer .
" By Benjamin Ward Richardson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 14,1879 .
Professor Hughes having done me the honour to show me first his | newly invented instrument for the measurement of hearing , and having 1 supplied me with an instrument for the purpose of testing the applica-I tion of it for physiological and practical purposes , I have been enabled I to make a considerable number of experiments , on which I venture to 1 submit the following preliminary report:\#151 ; The instrument , as it has been used , is before the Society .
It con-I sists of two Leclanche 's cells for the battery , a new and simple micro-1 phonic key connected with the cells and with two fixed primary coils , I and a secondary or induction coil the terminals of which are attached I to a telephone .
The induction coil mo^es on a bar between the two 1 fixed coils , and the bar is graduated into 200 parts , by which the I readings of sound are taken .
The graduated scale is divided into I 20 centime .
, and each of these parts is subdivided into 10 , so that the I hearing may be tested from the maximum of 200 units to 0'\#151 ; zero .
I The fixed coil on the right hand contains 6 metres of wire ; the fixed I coil on the left hand contains 100 metres .
By this means a long scale I from the left hand coil is produced .
The secondary coil contains 100 I metres of wire .
In using the instrument , one Leclanche 's cell has been found suffi-I cient , as a general rule , but two have been used in instances where I the hearing of the person under test has been very defective .
The I Leclanche cell was selected by Professor Hughes as affording a reliable I current for the purposes he had in view , and for standard comparisons .
vol. xxix .
F

