A paper was read , entitled , " Some Account of the Eruption of Vesuvius , which occurred in the month of August , 1834 , extracted from the manuscript notes of the Cavalier Monticelli , Foreign Associate of the Gcological Society , and from other sources ; together with a Statement of the Product3 of the Eruption , and of the Condition of the Volcano subsequently to it.'* By Charles Daubenv , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , and Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
It appears , from the information collected by the author , that for a considerable time previously to the late eruption of Vesuvius , stones and scoriae had been thrown up from the crater , and had accumulated into two conical masses , the largest of which was more than two hun ?
dred feet in height .
On the night of the 24th of August last , after the flow of considerable currents of lava , a violent concussion took place , followed by the disappearance of both these conical hillocks , which , in the course of a single night , were apparently swallowed up within the cavities of the mountain .
Fresh currents of lava continued to flow for several days subsequently , destroying about 180 houses , spreading devastation over a large tract of country , and destroying all the fish in the neighbouring ponds and lakes .
After the 29th of August , no further signs of internal commotion were manifested , with the exception of the disengagement of aqueous and aeriform vapours from the crater , a phenomenon which , in a greater or less degree , isat all times observable .
The author descended twice into the interior of the crater , which then presented a comparatively level surface ; its sides con ?
sisting of strata of loose volcanic sand and rapilli , coated with saline incrustations of common salt , coloured red and yellow by peroxide of iron .
The vapours which issued from various parts of the surface , collected and condensed by means of an alembic , introduced into the ground , were found to consist principally of steam and muriatic acid , with only a slight trace of sulphureous or sulphuric acids .
From a trial with solution of barytes , the author concludes that carbonic acid was also exhaled , but neither nitrogen nor sulphuretted hydrogen appeared to form any part of the gas emitted .
The steam issuing from the lava contained both free muriatic acid and also muriate of ammonia , which latter salt could not be detected in the gas from the volcano itself .
The author conceives that these volatile principles are entangled in the lava , and are subsequently disengaged .

