On the Julianiacece , a New Natural Order of Plants .
231 EXPLANATION OF DIAGRAM , PLATE 11 .
On the plate are given details of four families of parthenogenetic ?
's .
Fam .
1 contains a few arrenotokous $ 's , Fam .
2 contains many , whilst Fam .
3 and Fam .
4 show none ( c/ .
Types B , A , and C , pp. 226 , 227 ) .
T denotes a ?
proved to be thelytokous .
A denotes a ?
proved to be arrenotokous .
The small figures in Families 3 and 4 signify the number of the generation from the original parent of the strain .
Thus in Family 3 , T9 + 12T means that in the ninth generation 13 ?
's from the same parent ( T8 ) were proved to be thelytokous , and that one of these was used as the mother of the tenth generation\#151 ; the rest being discarded .
Where apparent gaps occur , .
, in Fam .
3 , between T17 and T40 , it means that a single ?
was used in each generation to continue the strain , but that the sisters of these individuals were not bred from .
On the Julianiacece , a New Natural Order of Plants .
By W. Botting Hemsley ; F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Keeper of the Herbarium and Library , Royal Botanic G-ardens , Kew .
( Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 28 , 1906 .
) ( Abstract .
) 1.\#151 ; General Description .
The Julianiacese comprise , so far as at present known , two genera and five species .
They are resiuiferous , tortuously branched , deciduous , dioecious shrubs or small trees , having alternate , exstipulate , imparipinnate leaves , from about one to three decimetres long , clustered at the tips of the flowrering branches and scattered along the short barren shoots .
The flowers are small , green or yellow-green , quite inconspicuous , and the males are very different from the females .
The male inflorescence is a more or less densely branched axillary panicle or compound catkin , from 2| to 15 cm .
long , with weak , thread-like , hairy branches and pedicels .
The male flowers are numerous , 3 to 5 mm. in diameter and consist of a simple , very thin perianth , divided nearly to the base into four to nine narrow equal segments , and an equal number of stamens alternating with the segments .
In structure and appearance they are almost exactly like those of the common oak .
The female inflorescence is similar in structure to that of the sweet chestnut , consisting of an almost closed , usually five-toothed involucre , borne on a flattened pedicel and containing three or four collateral flowers , of which the two outside ones are , perhaps , always abortive .
At the flowering stage , the female inflorescences , including the narrow Mr. W. B. Hemsley .
On , [ June 6 , flattened pedicel and the exserted styles , are about 2 cm .
long , and as they are seated close in the axils of the crowded leaves , and of the same colour , they are easily overlooked .
The female flowers are destitute of a perianth , and consist of a flattened , one-celled ovary , terminated by a trifid style and containing a solitary ovule .
The ovule in both genera is a very peculiar structure .
I will first describe that of .
In the flowering stage it is a thin , flat , obliquely horseshoe-shaped or unequally two-lobed body , about 2 mm. in its greatest diameter , attached to the base of the cell .
At a little later stage , in consequence of unequal growth , it is horizontally oblong , nearly as large as the mature seed , that is 6 to 8 mm. long , and almost symmetrically two-lobed at the top .
A vascular bundle or strand runs from the point of attachment to the placenta upwards near the margin into one of the lobes .
In this lobe the embryo is tardily developed , and at this stage it is more or less enclosed in the opposite lobe , the relations of the two being as nozzle and socket to each other .
It is assumed that the whole of this body , with the exception of the lobe in which the embryo is formed , is a funicle with a unilaterally developed appendage , which breaks up and is absorbed during the development of the ovule into seed .
A similar growth and transformation is unknown to me in any other natural order .
The ovule of Orthopterygium is very imperfectly known , but the attachment appears to be lateral and the funicular appendage cup-shaped at the basal end , bilamellate upwards , and more or less enclosing the embryoniferous lobe .
Mr. Boodle , who has fully examined the ovule of Juliania from microtome sections , describes it as hemianatropous with a single integument .
The compound fruits of Juliania are samaroid in form , the wing being the flattened pedicel , at the base of which it disarticulates from the undifferentiated part of the pedicel .
They vary from 4 to 7 cm .
in length by 1J to 2| cm .
in width .
Externally they strongly resemble the samaroid pods of certain genera of Leguminosse , notably those of Platypodium and Myroxylon .
The involucre itself , of the largest fruits seen , is only about 1 cm .
deep by 2 cm .
wide .
It is composed of very hard tissues and is quite indehiscent .
Only quite young fruit of Orthopterygium is known .
In this the flattened pedicel is narrow , straight and equilateral , from 6 to 7 cm .
long and about 1 cm .
wide .
The nuts of Juliania are almost orbicular , biconvex , hairy on the outside and have a very hard endocarp .
The solitary exalbuminous seed is circular or oblong , 6 to 10 mm. long , compressed , with a smooth , thin testa .
The embryo is horizontal , with thin plano-convex , more or less oblique , obscurely lobed cotyledons , which are epigeous in germination , and a long ascending radicle applied to the edges of the cotyledons .
1906 .
] a New Natural Order of Plants .
II.\#151 ; History .
It is surprising that a genus of plants so striking in aspect , so distinct in the shape of its fruit , and so widely spread as Juliania is in Mexico , should have entirely escaped the observation of all the earlier European travellers in that country .
0 .
J. W. Schiede , M.D. , who accompanied Ferdinand Deppe on a botanical expedition to Mexico in 1828 , was apparently the first to send dried specimens to Europe of one of the species of Juliania .
But it was not until 1843 that his friend , Dr. D. F. L. von Schlechtendal , published an account of the genus of plants in question .
Under the name of Hypopterygium ( subsequently Juliania ) he very fully described the material he had an opportunity of examining , but he had neither female flowers nor mature seeds , and he was doubtful whether the fruit was the result of one or more flowers .
His description is very accurate , and he expresses his views of the affinities of the plant , which he regarded as the type of a new Natural Order .
Since Schlechtendal 's time , until I took up the study of the genus five years ago , nobody seems to have had sufficient material to supplement his description .
In 1854 , A. Gray described , also from very incomplete material , what he considered a second species of the same genus , collected in Peru .
An examination of fuller , though by no means complete , material has led me to separate it generically under the name of Orthopterygium .
In September , 1900 , the late Mr. Marc Micheli presented Kew with a small set of E. Langlasse 's Mexican plants .
Among them was a specimen in fruit , which , after much research , was identified with Schlechtendal 's J ulianiaadstringens ; but the most careful and tedious examination carried me no further than Schlechtendal had reached 60 years before .
Previous to this ( in 1899 , as I afterwards found out ) , Kew received a specimen of a male plant collected in the Mexican State of Jalisco by Mr. C. G. Pringle , n. 6871 , and doubtingly named Juliania adstringens .
The male specimen was published as mollis , Hemsl .
, and the fruiting as J. adstringens , Schl .
This publication had the desired effect , for it brought me a letter at the end of 1901 from Dr. J. N. Pose , Curator in the " Division of Plants " of the United States National Museum at Washington , from which I make the following extracts:\#151 ; " You will also be interested in what I have to tell you about Juliania .
lor more than six years I have been at work off and on , at this genus , but for the lack of material I have never published anything upon it , but each VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; B. T Mr. W. B. Hemsley .
On the Julia , [ June 6 , I time have brought back specimens , and this year was especially fortunate in collecting near the type-locality both male and female plants .
In looking * up the subject since my return I find that you have anticipated me and have published two very beautiful plates and some interesting notes . . .
There are , however , more than two species in Mexico .
I have certainly four well-marked species and possibly six . . . .
With regard to the position of this genus , I think it must be- regarded as the type of a new order .
I do not think it has any relationship to either Burseracese or Anacardiaceae .
My conclusions in the field were that it must be closely related to Juglandaceae , a relationship which you also suggest .
" In this communication Dr. Bose most generously offered to send all his specimens and notes to me , leaving it to my judgment in what form publication should be effected .
I gladly accepted , and through the kindness of the Trustees of the Bentham Fund , Miss M. Smith made an elaborate series of drawings under my direction .
As there were still some structural points on which we were not quite clear , and Dr. Rose contemplated another visit to Mexico , it was decided to publish at once a description of the genus , as then understood , and brief diagnoses of the species .
III.\#151 ; Geographical Distribution .
1 .
Juliania .
So far as at present known , Juliania is confined to Mexico , and the various species occur in isolated localities between about 17 ' 40 ' and 23 ' N. lat. , and 97 ' and 104 ' W. long .
, and at altitudes of about 1500 to 5500 feet .
2 .
Orthopterygium The habitat of the Peruvian Orthopterygium Huaucui is 2000 miles distant from the nearest locality of any species of Juliania .
The exact position of the only place.in which it has been found cannot be given , but it is in the Province of Canta , in the Department of Lima , between 11 ' and 12 ' S. lat. IV .
The Affinities of the Julian iace^e .
During the six yeais that I have had this small group under observation have had opportunities of showing the specimens and drawings to many 0 t e eading botanists of the world , and all agree who have seen them that 1 deserves to rank as an independent order .
That being so , the question of i s position arises , but that is a point not so easily settled in a linear arrange1906 .
] New Natural Order of Plants .
235 merit .
Taking the morphological characters seriatim , it is evident that the closest relationships are with the Anacardiacese and Cupuliferse .
The absolute separation of the sexes and the very great diversity of the floral structure of the sexes , associated with pinnate leaves , offers a combination of characters probably without a parallel .
Beginning with the foliage , the Julianiacea3 have alternate , exstipulate , imparipinnate leaves in common with at least eight different ligneous orders , but here the affinity , or , rather , resemblance ends so far as six of them are concerned , and the comparisons need be carried no further .
There remain the Anacardiacese and Juglandacese , both of which are also resiniferous , both have unisexual flowers with reduced envelopes , at least as to some of their members , and both have solitary , exalbuminous seeds .
Other points of resemblance or similarity in the Juglandacese are the dissimilar male and female flowers , the broad , stigmatic lobes of the style , and the single-coated ovules .
Juglans has also a funicle of unusual development .
But the combined characters in common of the Julianiacese and the Juglandacese cannot be regarded as constituting a close affinity .
In some respects there is a nearer relationship to the Anacardiacese .
The anatomical characters of the two orders are very much alike ; but as Dr. F. E. Fritsch will describe and discuss the anatomy in a separate paper , it is unnecessary to enter into particulars here .
The nearest approach I have found to the singular funicular development of the ovule is in the Anacardiacese , but the resemblance is remote and the ovules of the latter are double coated .
Coming to the seed and the embryo , however , the resemblance is complete , and , apart from the slight obliquity of the cotyledons of Juliania , the description of the seed and embryo of Cotinus or Rhus would do for Juliania .
With this the affinities to the Anacardiacese are exhausted , and they are not sufficiently strong to justify the juxtaposition of the two orders .
The next comparison is with the Cupuliferse , taking the order as limited by Bentham and Hooker .
There is nothing in the secretions nor in the foliage to warrant an approximation of the two orders , and in habit of growth the Julianiacese are very different .
But divergences as great , or greater , exist between closely associated orders , and even between genera referred to the same order ; and when we come to the inflorescence and flowers , affinities are evident ; that is if affinities are deducible from similarities in structure .
The male inflorescence , the male flowers , and the pollen of Juliania adstringensare so near in texture , structure , and form to the same parts in certain species of oak that , detached , they might be referred to the genus Quercus .
In fact , there is much greater dissimilarity in the male inflorescence 236 On the Julianiacece , a New Natural Order of Plants .
and flowers of different species of Quercus than there is between those of Juliania and those species of Quercus which have a flaccid male inflorescence and stamens alternating with the segments of the perianth .
The female inflorescence and the male flowers of Juliania are not represented by exact counterparts in the Cupuliferse , but the analogies are perhaps greater than with any other order .
Several female flowers in a closed involucre is a characteristic of Juliania , of and In all three of the genera of the Cupuliferse named , the involucre dehisces regularly or irregularly , and the nuts fall out .
In Juliania the involucre is indehiscent , and the flattened nuts are adnate by their edges to the inner wall of the involucre , and they have a very hard , relatively thick , sclerenchy-matous pericarp .
Going back to the flowers , the male of Juliania has a perianth ; the female none .
In Corylusthe conditions are reversed ; in Betula , neither sex has an obvious perianth ; in Quercus , the flowers of both sexes are furnished with a perianth .
All of the Cupuliferse have an ovary which is more than one-celled , and usually there are three cells , and mostly more than one ovule in each cell , though each nut is usually only one-seeded .
The ovary of Juliania and of Orthopterygium invariably contains only one ovule .
The flowers and nuts of Castanea are collateral , as in Juliania .
The seeds of both orders are exalbuminous , and the cotyledons are epigseous in germination .
Weighing the characters in which there is agreement or similarity between the Julianiacese and the Anacardiacese , and those in which there is agreement or similarity between the Julianiaceae and the Cupuliferse , the latter in my estimation preponderate ; and I cannot suggest a more natural position for the Julianiaceae , in a linear arrangement , than between the Juglandaceae and the Cupuliferae .

