OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. LXX .
X\'If.-B .
b CONTENTS .
PAGE JOHN LUBBOCK , BARON A VEBURY ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
... ... ... ... ... , .
i PHILIP LuTLEY ScLATER iii THE first Lord Avebury , for many years better known as Sir John Lubbock , died on May 28 last , in his 80th year .
He was the eldest son of the third Baronet and Harriet , daughter of Captain Hotham , of York .
He was educated at Eton , but left at an early age to join his father in the family bank .
He married firstly Ellen the eldest child of Peter Hordern , and some years after her death , in 1879 , Alice Augusta Laurentia , daughter of the late General A. A. Lane-Fox Pitt-Rivers , and grand-daughter of the second Baron Stanley of Alderley .
In 1865 , he succeeded his father as fourth baronet , five years later he became Member of Parliament for Maidstone , and held this seat until 1880 , when he was elected representative of the University of London .
This seat he held until 1900 , the date when he was removed to " another place , " as Baron Avebury .
Lord Avebury took an active but restricted part in politics .
His most prominent efforts were directed to the establishment of Bank Holidays , but he devoted much time and attention to educational questions and social reform .
Without having had a University training he was yet peculiarly fitted to be a representative of a University , being a man of wide culture as well as a very competent man of business .
For many years he was head of the great banking company , Robarts , Lubbock and Co. , and by his tireless activity and ceaseless care for detail , he became a very prominent man in City circles .
This attention to detail and his knowledge of procedure made him an admirable President ; and , indeed , he seems to have presided over nearly every scientific society and countless mercantile associations .
At various dates he was President of the British Association ( Jubilee Year ) , the Entomological Society , the Ethnological Society , the Linnean Society , the Anthropological Institute , the Ray Society , the Statistical Society , the African Society , the Society of Antiquaries , and the Royal Microscopical Society .
He was also the first President of the International Institute of Sociology , the President of the International Association of Prehistoric Archreology , the International Association of Zoology , the International Library Association , the London University Extension Society , and the first President of the Institute of Bankers , President of the London Chamber of Commerce , and of the Central Association of Bankers .
For eight years he was Vice-Chancellor of the University of London , and he was also Principal of the Working Men 's College .
He sat on many a Royal Commission , and left his mark on those on the Advancement of Science , on Public Schools , on International Coinage , on Gold and Silver , and on Education .
He was perhaps less happy as President of the Committee which selected the designs for our present coinage .
11 Ob~tuary Notices of Fellows deceased .
At the time of his death , Lord Avebury , although he retained a house in London , had given up his house in St. J ames 's Square , and he died at Kingsgate Castle , Kent .
Another of his country residences was High Elms , Down , and it may have been the association of Darwin and Avebury at this small Kentish village that first attracted Lord Avebury 's attention to natural history .
One of his first books , and perhaps one of the most stimulating , was ' The Origin of Civilisation and the Primitive Condition of Man , ' now in the sixth edition , a book which aroused interest and research in the past in many quarters .
It was characteristic of him when he had to select a title for his peerage to choose that of Avebury , the preservation of whose prehistoric remains he had taken so large a part in securing .
At the time of his last illness he was engaged in revising and partly rewriting a seventh edition of his well-known 'Prehistoric Times .
' Without being a great researcher , Lord Avebury took a very prominent part in encouraging the research of others .
Of his more scientific works , perhaps his monograph ( published by the Ray Society ) 'On the Collembola and Thysanura ' has proved most useful ; for a long time it was the authoritative work on these lowly insects , and still is so , especially with regard to the Collembola , whose distinction from the Thysanura was first recognised by the author .
But many of his other works passed into numerous editions : 'British Wild Flowers , considered in Relation to Insects , ' reached the sale of 11,000 copies ; 'Ants , Bees , and Wasps ' passed into the seventeenth edition ; and his works on ' Seedlings ' and on ' Buds and Stipules ' contained much that is valuable and well worthy of record .
He wrote two geological works which are still used with profit by students of the Universities ; one on The Scenery of Switzerland , ' and the other , published ten years ago , on ' The Scenery of England , ' and several treatises on more strictly economic lines .
His works on Coins and Currency , on Free Trade , and on Municipal , and on National Trade , occur to one 's mind .
But apart from these more or less technical publications , Lord Avebury had a genuine " flair " for writing books which the public want .
Both parts of The Pleasures of Life ' sold over 200,000 copies , and Part I over a quarter of a million , besides being issued in no less than forty foreign editions .
' The Use of Life ' and The Beauties of Nature ' were hardly less successful , and everyone will remember his " Hundred Best Books .
" As the foregoing will show , Lord Avebury was a man of singularly diversified activities and extreme width of interest .
That he should find occasion in the middle of a busy business career to do the work he did is indeed amazing , but he was precise and very business-like , and knew how to make the most of his time .
He had after his name an alphabet of Honorary Degrees and memberships of Learned Societies .
It need hardly be said that he was covered with honours too numerous to enumerate .
He was Lord Rector of the University Philip Lutley Sclater .
111 of St. Andrews , Trustee of the British Museum , and Foreign Secretary to the Ro~al Academy .
He_ ser':e\lt ; l five distinct periods on the Council of the Royal Society , the last bemg m the year 1906-7 , and was three times VicePresident .
He was Commander of the Legion of Honour , and held the German " Ordre pour le Merit .
" A. E. S. PHILIP LUTLEY SCLATER-1829-1913 .
PHILIP LUTLEY ScLATER was born in November , 1829 , at Tangier Park , in Hampshire , where his father , Mr. William Lutley Sclater then resided thouah ' ' t , he shortly after moved to Hoddington House , another estate in the same county , not far from the old home of Gilbert White , where his boyhood was passed .
In 1842 he went to Winchester College and was elected a scholar of Corpus Christi College , Oxford , in 1845 , but being under age was not called into residence at the University until the following year .
At Oxford he devoted his studies ~iefly to mathematics , but at the same time he occupied much of his spare time in the pursuit of natural history , his speciality , as in after life , being ornithology .
While at Oxford he was fortunate in becoming acquainted with H. E. Strickland , and at his house he met John Gould , shortly after the return of the latter from Australia .
It was from them that he received his first serious instruction in ornithology , and it was \lt ; luring his Oxford days that he commenced his collection of birds .
In 1849 he took his degree , obtaining a first class in Mathematics and a pass in Classics , but he remained for two years longer at college before proceeding to his M.A. degree .
During this time he also studied modern languages and became familiar with French , German , and Italian , spending as much of his time as he could spare on the Continent .
At Paris he made the acquaintance of Prince Charles Bonaparte , at whose house he was a constant visitor , and thus he received a further stimulus in his favourite pursuit of ornithology .
In 1855 Sclater became a :Fellow of Corpus Christi College , Oxford , and was called to the Bar by the Honourable Society of Lincoln 's Inn and went on the Western Circuit for several years .
In 1856 he visited America , in company with a friend , and attended the American Association for the Advancement of Science , at Saratoga , after which they proceeded to Niagara and the Great Lakes , and on foot to the upper waters of the St. Croix River , thence descending in a birch-bark canoe to the Mississippi .
They finally returned to Philadelphia , where Sclater spent some time studying the fine collections at the Academy of Natural Sciences and meeting John Cassin , IV Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Joseph Leidy , John le Conte , and other well-known naturalists , returning to England about the end of the year .
He now took up his residence in London , continuing his studies in natural history and also practising at the Bar .
He was a constant attendant at the meetings of the Zoological Society of London , of which he had been previously elected a Fellow , and in 1857 became a Member of the Council .
In 1859 Sclater , in company with his friend E. C. Taylor , made an expedition to Tunis , visiting the breeding places of the vultures , eagles , and other Raptores and making considerable collections .
About this time Mr. D. W. Mitchell , who had been Secretary to the Zoological Society , was appointed to superintend the new Jardin d'Acclimatation in Paris ; thus the post became vacant , and Owen and Yarrell , influential members of the Council , induced Sclater to apply for it , and at the Anniversary Meeting in 1859 he was unanimously elected .
On his appointment he found that a considerable re-organisation of the Society 's affairs was necessary , the ' Proceedings ' and ' Transactions ' were sadly in arrear , and the gardens themselves were much neglected .
He at once set to work to reform these matters , and as a result the prosperity of the Society vastly increased .
The number of Fellows was augmented from about 1700 in 1859 to above 3000 when he resigned his post in 1902 , and , similarly , the income rose in the same period from \#163 ; 14,000 to \#163 ; 30,000 and both the buildings in the Gardens and the offices in Hanover Square were replaced by much more suitable and commodious structures , the library also received great attention and now became an important feature of the Society .
From 1874 to 1876 he became private secretary to his brother ( then the Right Honourable SclaterBooth , M.P. , and afterwards Lord Basing ) , when he was President of the Local Government Board in Mr. Disraeli 's Administration .
The British Ornithologists ' Union was established in 1858 for the study of general ornithology and Sclater was invited to become Editor to the first series of its quarterly journal , The Ibis .
' Volume I appeared in 1859 , and the first series was completed in 1865 .
The next six volumes were edited by Prof. A. Newton , and the third series by Osbert Salvin .
From 1877 Sclater again became Editor , either alone or in company with a partner , till the end of the ninth series in 1912 , and during this time he contributed many valuable papers to the Journal .
In 1908 , on the occasion of the Jubilee , Sclater , together with the three other surviving founders , F. D. Godman ( President ) , W. H. Hudleston , and P. S. Godman , received the gold medal of the Society .
With the British Association for the Advancement of Science he had a long connection , and attended many of the meetings after he became a member in 1847 , including the visit to Montreal in 1884 and South Africa in ] 905 .
For several years he was Secretary of Section D , and at the Bristol meeting in 1875 was its President , and delivered an address on " The State of our Knowledge of Zoological Geography , " a subject which had hitherto been much neglected .
In geography he took a special interest ; he became a life member of the Geographical Society , and was a constant Philip Lutley Sclater .
V attendant at its meetings .
He resigned the Secretaryship of the Zoological Society in 1902 after forty-three years ' tenure of that office , and retired to his country house , Odiham Priory , in Hampshire , but was still a frequent visitor at both the Natural History Museum and the Library of the Zoological Society till shortly before his death .
He continued a constant attendant at the dinners of the British Ornithologists ' Club , at which he usually presided .
At the last meeting , held on June 11 , 1913 , he was presented by the club with an address , signed by nearly all the members , and a piece of plate , in recognition of his services during the past twenty-one years , but he was , unfortunately , too unwell to be present , as he was suffering from a carriage accident , from the effects of which he died on June 27 .
Sclater married in 1862 Jane Anne Eliza , youngest daughter of Sir David Hunter-Blair , Bart. , of Blairquhan , Ayrshire , and leaves a widow and three sons and one daughter .
With a view to obtain collections of natural history , Sclater assisted in promoting researches in foreign parts .
Amougst these may specially be mentioned Sir H. H. Johnston 's expedition to Kilimanjaro , Prof. Balfour 's visit to Socotra , and many others .
Sclater likewise travelleJ in many parts of Europe and North America , visiting the museums , and making the acquaintance of the principal zoologists .
As before mentioned , he commenced his collection of birds while an undergraduate at Oxford , at that time intending to include those from all parts of the world , but afterwards resolved to confine himself to Central and South America alone , limiting himself to the orders Passeres , Picarire , and Psittaci .
This collection , containing 8824 specimens , representing 3158 species , including many types , was ultimately acquired by the Natural History Museum .
Sclater received the honorary degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Bonn in 1860 , and was made a Doctor of Science by the University of Oxford in 1901 .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1861 , and served twice on the Council , was likewise a Fellow of the Linnean , Geographical , and Geological Societies , and a member of several other scientific societies both at home and abroad .
Amongst the works published by Sclater may specially be mentioned , A Monograph on the Tanagrine Genus Calliste , ' ' Zoological Sketches , ' by J. Wolf , with notes by P. L. Sclater , 'Exotic Ornithology , ' by P. L. Sclater and Osbert Salvin , and the 'Book of Antelopes , ' by P .
L. Sclater and Oldfield Thomas .
In addition to these , he published over 1200 papers in various periodicals , chiefly on birds and mammals , besides many others in conjunction with Osbert Salvin , Forues , and 0 .
Thomas , etc. His last paper in the 'Ibis ' was issued in the January number , 1913 , while his first in the 'Zoologist ' in 1844 .
F. D. G. INDEX TO VOL. LXXXVII .
( B ) After-images and successive contrast with pure colours ( Porter and Edridge-Green ) , 190 .
Anthocyan pigments of plants.-Part VI ( Keeble , Armstrong and Jones ) , 113 .
Anthocyanins and anthocyanidins , production of ( Everest ) , 444 .
Arber ( E. A. N. ) On the Fossil ~~loras of the Wyre Forest , with Special Reference to the Geology of the Coalfield , etc. , 317 .
Armstrong ( E. F. ) See Keeble , Armstrong , and Jones , Arterial pressure , measurement of ( Hill and others ) , 344 .
Ave bury ( Lord ) .
Obituary Notice of , i. Bacillus coli commimis , decomposition of formates by ( Grey ) , 461 ; -- decomposition of glucose and mannitol by ( Grey ) , 472 .
Bacteria , oxidation of thiosulphate by ( Lockett ) , 441 .
Barratt ( J. 0 .
W. ) The Nature of the Coagulant of the Venom of Echis cm\#183 ; inatus , a Small Indian Viper , 177 .
Bassett ( H. Ll .
) See Wheldale and Bassett .
Blacklock ( B. ) and York ( W. ) The Trypanosomes causing Dourine ( Mal de Coit or Beschalseuche ) , 89 .
Blood pressure , resonance of tissues in transmission of ( Hill and others ) , 255 .
Body weight and lethal dose of toxic substances ( Dreyer and Walker ) , 319 .
Brain , mid- , postural and non-postural activities of ( Brown ) , 145 .
Brodie ( T. G. ) A new Conception of the Glomerular Function , 571 ; -- and Mackenzie ( J. J. ) On Changes in the Glomeruli and Tubules of the Kidney accompanying Activity , 593 .
Broom ( R. ) The Origin of Mammals , 87 .
Brown ( T. G. ) On the Question of Fractional Activity( " All or None " Phenomenon ) in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena , 132 ; -- On Postural and Non-postural Activities of the Mid-Brain , 145 .
Bruce ( Sir D. ) and others .
Trypanosome Diseases of Domestic Animals in Nyasaland .
III.-T .
pecorwm , 1 ; Morphology of Various Strains of the Trypanosome causing Disease in Man in Nyasaland.-The Mzimba Strain , 26 ; -- The Trypanosome causing Disease in Man in Nyasaland.-Susceptibility of Animals to the Human Strain , 35 ; Plasmodium ceplialoplii ( sp. nov .
) , 45 ; -- Trypanosomes of the Domestic Animals in Nyasaland .
I.-T .
simire , sp. nov .
Part II.-The Susceptibility of Various Animals to T. simice , 48 ; Part III , 58 ; -- The Trypanosome causing Disease in Man in N yasaland .
Part UL-Development in Glossina morsitans , 516 ; -- Description of a Strain of Trypanosorna br1.wei from Zululand .
Part I.-Morphology , 493 ; Part II.-Susceptibility of Animals , 511 ; Part III .
Development in Glossina morsitans , 526 .
Bullock ( W. E. ) and Cramer ( W. ) Contributions to the Biochemistry of Growth.-On the Lipoids of Transplantable Tumours of the Mouse and the Rat , 236 .
Chlorophyll extracts , formaldehyde as oxidation product of CWarner ) , 378 ; -- action of light on ( Wager ) , :~86 .
Chloroplasts of green cells , presence of iron compound~ in ( :Moore ) , 556 .
Cholesterol content of growing chickens under different diets ( Gardner and Lander ) , 229 .
VOL. LXXXVII.-11 .
C Vlll Church ( A. H. ) On the Floral Mechanism of Welwitschia rnirabilis ( Hooker ) , 354 .
" Clot " formations , investigations on phenomena of , II ( Schryver ) , 366 .
Compton ( A. ) The Optimum Temperature of Salicin Hydrolysis by Enzyme Action is Independent of the Concentrations of Substrate and Enzyme , 245 .
Cramer ( W. ) See Bullock ( W , E. ) and Cramer ( W. ) Oreatine , excretion in carbohydrate starvation ( Graham and Poulton ) , 205 .
Croonian Lecture ( Broom ) , 87 ; ( Brodie ) , 571 .
Darwin ( Sir F. ) On a Method of Studying Transpiration , 269 ; -- The Effect of Light on the Transpiration of Leaves , 281 .
Dosage of drugs ( Dreyer and Walker ) , 319 .
Dourine , trypanosomes causing ( Blacklock and York ) , 89 .
Dreyer ( G. ) and Walker ( E.W. A. ) The Determination of the Minimal Lethal Dose of Various Toxic Substances and its Relationship to the Body Weight in Warmblooded Animals , etc. , 319 .
Dye ( D. W. ) See .Glazebrook and Dye .
Ecliis carinatus , the coagulant of venom of ( Barratt ) , 177 .
Edridge-Green ( F. W. ) See Porter and Edridge-Green .
Enzymes in decomposition of glucose , etc. , by B. coli cornrnunis ( Grey ) , 472 .
Everest ( A. E. ) The Production of Anthocyanins and Anthocyanidins , 444 .
Flack ( M. ) See Hill , McQueen , and Flack .
Flower-colour , chemical interpretation of Mendelian factors for ( Wheldale and Bassett ) , 300 .
Formaldehyde as oxidation product of chlorophyll extracts ( Warner ) , 378 ; -synthesis of , from carbon dioxide and water ( Moore and Webster ) , 163 .
Fossil floras of the Wyre Forest ( Arber ) , 317 .
Gardner ( J. A. ) and Lander ( P. E. ) The Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
Part XL-The Cholesterol Content of Growing Chickens under Different Diets , 229 .
Gel , formation of , from cholate solutions ( Schryver ) , 366 .
Genetics of tetraploid plants in Primula ( Gregory ) , 484 .
Glazebrook ( R. T. ) and Dye ( D. W. ) On the Heat- Production associated with Muscular Work , 311 .
Graham ( G. ) and Poulton ( E. P. ) The Alleged Excretion of Creatine in Carbohydrate Starvation , 205 . .
Gregory ( R. P. ) On the Genetics of Tetraploid Plants in Prirnula sinensis , 484 .
Grey ( E. C. ) The Decomposition of Formates by Bacillus coli cornrnunis , 461 ; -- The Enzymes which are concerned in the Decomposition of Glucose and Mannitol by B. coli r ; ornmunis , 472 .
Growth , biochemistry of ( Bullock and Cramer ) , 236 .
Gunda ulvce , regeneration in ( Lloyd ) , 355 .
Gunn ( J. A. ) The Action of Certain Drugs on the Isolated Human Uterus , 551 .
Haruerton ( A. E. ) See Bruce ( Sir D. ) and others .
Hammond ( J. ) and Marshall ( F. H. A. ) The Functional Correlation between the Ovaries , Uterus , and Mammary Glands in the Rabbit , with Observations on the CEstrous Cycle , 422 .
Helix pomatia , spermatocyte metaphases of ( Meek ) , 192 .
Heredity in sea-urchins , studies in ( MacBride ) , 240 .
lX Hill ( L. ) and McQueen ( J. M. ) and Ingram ( W. W. ) The Resonance of the Tiswes as a Factor in the Transmission of the Pulse and in Blood Pre~snre , 253 ; -- and Flack ( :M .
) The Conduction of the Pulse \VaYe and the ~leasurement of Arterial Pressure , 344 .
Ingram ( \V .
\V .
) See Hill , McQueen , and Ingram .
Jones ( \V .
~- ) See Keeble , Armstrong , and Jones .
Keeble ( F. ) , Armstrong ( E. F. ) , and , Tones ( \V .
N. ) The Formation of the Anthocyan Pigment~ of Plants.-Part VI , 113 .
Kennedy ( R. ) Experiments on the Ri\gt ; storation of Paralysi\gt ; d Muscles by means of Nerve Anastomosis .
Part II.-Anastomosis of the Nerves Supplying Limb ~fuscles , 331 .
Kent ( A. F. S. ) Neuro-muscular Structures in the Heart , 198 .
Kidd ( F. ) The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide in the Maturation , Dormancy , and Germination of Seeds.-Part I , 408 ; -- Part II , 609 .
Kidney , glomerular function ( Brodie ) , 571 ; -- changes in glomeruli and tubules ( Brodie and Mackenzie ) , 593 .
Lander ( P. E. ) See Gardner and Lander .
Life , origin of , photo-synthesis and , iron compounds in green-cell chloroplasts in relation to ( Moore ) , 556 .
Lipoids of transplantable tumours ( Bullock and Cramer ) , 236 .
Lloyd ( D. J. ) The Influence of the Position of the Cut upon Regeneration in Gu11da ulvce , 355 .
Lockett ( \V .
T. ) Oxidation of Thiosulphate by Certain Bacteria in Pure Culture , 441 .
MacBride ( E.W. ) Studies in Heredity .
TI.- Further Experiments in Crossing British Species of Sea-urchins , 240 .
Macdonald ( J. S. ) Studies in the heat-1'roduction associated with l\fuscular \Vork , 96 .
Mackenzie ( J. J. ) See Brodie and :Mackenzie .
McQueen ( J. ) See Hill and others .
Malaria parasite of man , new ( Stephens ) , 375 .
Malarial parasites , growth , \amp ; c. , in culture tube and human ho~t ( Thornson ) , 77 .
Mammals , origin of ( Broom ) , 87 .
Marshall ( F. H. A. ) See Hammond and Marshall .
Jfedullosct pusilla ( Scott ) , 221 .
Meek ( C. F. U. ) The Ratio between Spindle Lengths in the Spermatocyte Metaphases of Helix prnnatia , 192 .
Moore ( B. ) The Presence of Inorganic Iron Compounds in the Chloroplasts of the Green Cells of Plants , considered in Relationship to Natural Photo-synthesis and the Origin of Life , 556 ; -- and Webster ( T. A. ) Synthesis by Sunlight in Relationship to the Origin of Life.-Synthesis of Formaldehyde from Carbon Dioxide and Water by Inorganic Colloids , 163 .
Muscular work , heat production associated with ( Macdonald ) , 96 ; -- ( Glazebrook and Dye ) , 311 .
Nerve anastomosrs and restoration of paralysed musdes ( Kennedy ) , 331 .
Obituary Notices :Ave bury , Lord , i. Sclater , P. L. , iii .
CEstrous cycle , ou ; , ervations on ( Hammon\lt ; l and Marshall ) , 42j .
X Origin of life , synthesis by sunlight in relation to ( Moore and Webster ) , 163 .
Ovaries , uterus , and mammary glands , functional correlation between ( Hammond and Marshall ) , 422 .
Pixell ( H. L. M. ) Notes on Toxoplrtsmu gondii , 67 .
Plasmodiiim cephalophi , sp. nov .
( Bruce and others ) , 45 .
Porter ( A. W. ) and Edridge-Green ( F. W. ) Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast wit , h Pure Spectral Colours , 190 .
Poulton ( E. P. ) See Graham and Poulton .
Primula sinensis , genetics of tetra.ploid plants in ( Gregory ) , 484 .
Pulse , resonance of tissues in transmission of ( Hill and others ) , 2fi5 .
Pulse wave and measurement of arterial pressure ( Hill and others ) , 344 .
Reflex phenomena , question of fractional activity in ( Brown ) , 132 .
Sa .
Hein hydrolysis by enzyme action , optimum temperature of ( Compton ) , 245 .
Schryver ( S. B. ) Investigations dealing with the Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
Part II.-The Formation of a Gel from Cholate Solutions , etc. , 366 .
Sclater ( P. L. ) Obituary Notice of , iii .
Scott ( D. H. ) On Mediillosa pusilla , 221 .
Sea-urchins , experiments in crossing ( MacBride ) , 240 .
Seeds , influence of carbon dioxide on maturation , etc. ( Kidd ) , 408 , 609 .
Sex ratio in Mits 1\#183 ; attus , variations in , associated with unusual adult female mortality ( white ) , 335 .
Stephens ( J. W. W. ) A New Malaria Parasite of Man , 375 .
Synthesis by sunlight and origin of life ( Moore and Webster ) , 163 .
Thiosulphate oxidised by bacteria ( Lockett ) , 441 .
Thomson ( J. G. and D. ) The Growth and Sporulation of the Benign and Malignant Tertian Malarial Parasites in the Culture Tube and in the Human Host , 77 .
Tissue growth in autogenous and homogenous plasma ( Walton ) , 452 .
Toxic substances , minimal lethal dose of , and relationship to body weight ( Dreyer and Walker ) , 319 .
\#183 ; To:coplasma gondii ( Pixell ) , 67 .
Transpiration , method of studying ( Darwin ) , 269 ; -- effect of light on ( Darwin ) , 281 .
Tristichacere and Podostemacere , lack of adaptatio1i in ( Willis ) , 532 .
Trypanosoma bi\#183 ; ucei , description of strain from Zululaud ( Bruce and others ) , 493 , 511 , 526 .
Trypanosoma simiw , susceptibility of various animals to ( Bruce and others ) , 48 ; -- development in Glossina ( Bruce and others ) , 58 .
Trypanosome cansing disease in Man in Nyasalaud.-The Mzimba strain ( Bruce and others ) , 26 ; susceptibility of animals to Human strain ( Bruce and others ) , 35 ; development in G. morsitans ( Bruce and others ) , 516 .
Trypa.nosome diseases of uomebtic animals in Nyasaland .
III.-Trypano ; oma pecorum ( Bruce and others ) , 1 .
Trypanosomes causing dourine ( Blacklock and York ) , 89 .
Uterus , action of drugs on isolated human ( Gunn ) , 551 .
Venom of Echis carinatus , nature of coagulant of ( Barratt ) , 177 .
Wager ( H. ) The Action of Light on Chlorophyll , 386 .
Walker ( E.W. A. ) See Dreyer and Walker .
Walton ( A. J. ) Variations in the Growth of Adult ~1ammalian Tissue Ill Autogenous anu Ilomogenous Plasma , 452 .
Xl Warner ( C. H. ) Formaldehyde as an Oxidation Product of Chlorophyll Extracts , 378 .
Watson ( D. P. ) See Bruce ( Sil ' D. ) and others .
Webster ( T. A. ) See Moore and \#183 ; webster .
1Velwitscl1ia mirabilis , floral mechanism of ( Church ) , 354 .
\#183 ; wheldale ( M. ) and Bassett ( H. Ll .
) The Chemical Interpretation of some Mendelian Factors for Flower-Colour , 300 .
\#183 ; white ( F. N. ) Variations in the Sex Ratio of .IIu , s ratt , ts associated with an Unusual Mortality of Adult Females , 33Z\gt ; .
\Vill1.s ( J. C. ) On the Lack of Adaptation in the Tristichaoe.-e and Podostemacete , 532 .
\Vyre Forest , fossil floras of ( Arber ) , 317 .
York , W. See Blacklock and York .
END OF 'l'HE ElGH'rY-SEVENTII YOLU11E ( SERIES B. ) HARRISON AND SoNs , Printers in Ordin11.ry to His Majesty , St. Ml\rtin 's Lime .
d VOL. LXXXVII.-B .

