432 Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton .
VIII.\#151 ; Similar to VII , except that the preponderance of Antitoxin wi greater , viz. , 0000075 gram of venom and 1 serum per hil gram of body weight in each case .
Animal .
Weight \lt ; \#166 ; in grams .
Time daring which venom and serum were left in contact before heating .
Results .
i. Babbit ... .
1025 Venom only ( control ) Died in 12 hours .
ii .
" ... .
1190 2 minutes " 20 " iii .
" ... .
1130 5 " " 28 " iv .
" ... .
1060 10 " Lived .
Yery ill 2 days .
T. " ... .
1250 15 " " 111 1 day .
vi .
1210 30 " " No symptoms .
r vii .
1070 Not healed at all 99 99 IX.\#151 ; Similar to VII and VIII , but the preponderance of Serum is stil greater , viz. , 0'00005 gram of venom and 1 c.c. of serum per Idle gram of body weight in each case .
Animal .
Weight in grams .
Time during which venom and serum were in contact before heating .
Result .
i. Rabbit. . . .
1070 Yenom only ( control ) Died in 15 hours .
ii .
" ... .
1200 2 minutes Lived .
Yery ill for 2 days .
iii .
" 1170 5 \#187 ; , , Off feed 1 day .
| iv .
" ... .
1130 10 " " No symptoms .
\ v. " ... .
1030 15 " \gt ; \gt ; ) ) vi .
" . . . .
1420 30 " 9 9 99 vii .
" . .
, .
1050 Not heated at all 99 99 The expenses involved in the foregoing research were in part : defrayed from a grant made by the Government Grant Committee oi the Royal Society , " On the Source of the Rontgen Rays in Focus Tubes .
" By Alan A. Campbell Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received June 7 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
The writer has already described ( " Some new Studies in Cathode and Rontgen Radiations , " a discourse given at the Royal Institution on February 4 , 1898 ) how he has found it possible to study by means of pin-hole photography the active area on the anti-cathode of a focus tube from which the Rontgen rays proceed .
On the Source of the Rontgen Rays in Focus Tubes , 435 By means of a special camera he has now been able to make further avestigations .
The camera is illustrated in fig. 1 , where A is the inhole in a removable lead disc secured by a brass cap to the brass jne B , which is lined with thick lead so as to be opaque to the tontgen rays .
D is a framework into which slides either the uorescent screen E , or a carrier containing a sensitive plate should hotographs be required .
E is an observation tube for use with the uorescent screen .
It is made of insulating material to avoid danger f shocks .
Fio .
1 .
j With this apparatus directed at the anti-cathode of a focus tube , it is easy with the fluorescent screen in place to take accurate note of the image of the active anti-cathode area which appears on the screen , and to observe the variations in form , dimensions , and brilliancy that take place under varying conditions .
Similarly by replacing the fluorescent screen by a photographic plate in a black paper envelope , the Rontgen ray image can be photographed .
Exposures , varying from one to thirty minutes , according to conditions , are found sufficient to impress upon jthe plate any effect that can be seen directly with the screen .
It \#171 ; has not , however , been found possible , even with very prolonged exposures , to photograph anything not directly visible with the screen , and having regard to the difficulties of maintaining the vacuum and other conditions constant for any considerable length of time , the method^ of direct observation seems generally to be best and most convenient .
I or ) direct observation , rather a large pin-hole , say about 2mm .
in diameter , gives the best results ; for photography about half this diameter is preferable , as it gives sharper images .
I* The writer has made numerous observations and photographs with this apparatus , both with focus tubes of the ordinary pattern , and also with a special tube in which both the cathode and also the anti-cathode ( which in addition acted as anode ) were independently adjustable along the axis of the tube , so that the distance between !
them could be varied from a minimum of 4 to a maximum of 14 cm .
This special tube is illustrated in fig. 2 , and during the Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton .
observations it was connected to a mercury pump , so that the degre of exhaustion could be varied as desired .
Fra .
2 .
| \#166 ; \#171 ; \#166 ; f \#187 ; .
-f ?
\#171 ; 4- f | !
I ?
\#166 ; I \gt ; \#166 ; t ' ^ I I i 0 i i S 4 A 6 7 a 9 lO / / \amp ; 13 J4 !
5J617 / Q CfTiS .
The following are the main effects observed .
( 1 ) When the anti-cathode intersects the cathode stream at th focus , the dimensions of the active area are independent of th degree of exhaustion .
For all other positions beyond the focus it i : larger the lower the exhaustion and vice versa .
These observation nre of course only possible between the limits of exhaustion with which Rontgen rays are produced .
( 2 ) When the anti-cathode intersects the cathode stream beyonc the focus , the active area is larger the greater the distance betweei -cathode and anti-cathode .
For instance , with the tube illustrated ii fig. 2 , exhausted to a good Rontgen ray vacuum , it was found that the active area gradually increased from about 0*15 cm diameter with 4 cm .
distance between cathode and anti-cathode uj to about 2 3 cm .
diameter as the distance was gradually increased to 14 cm .
The increase is less the higher the vacua , but is always very considerable .
( 3 ) When the anti-cathode intersects the cathode stream considerably beyond the focus , the active area is found to consist of a well defined and very intense central nucleus , surrounded by a much fainter but quite appreciable halo .
Both of these increase in size as the distance between cathode and anti-cathode is increased .
In some cases the halo consists of a well marked hollow ring with a , dark space between it and the central nucleus .
In other cases two distinct concentric rings are visible surrounding the nucleus .
Moreover , the nucleus itself , when very large , shows distinct signs of being made up of one or more concentric rings , sometimes with a still smaller nucleus within them .
These observations correspond with and amplify what the writer has already noticed by direct observation of the visible luminescence of a carbon screen arranged to intersect the cathode stream.* ( 4 ) With an anti-cathode inclined at an angle of 45 ' to the axis of the conical cathode stream , it is found that those portions of the stream which impinge most normally upon the anti-cathode # * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 61 , pp. 81\#151 ; 84 .
On the Source of the Rontgen Rays in Focus Tubes .
435 irface are considerably the most efficient in producing Rontgen iys .
Similarly those portions of the stream that impinge on the ifci-cathode surface very much on the slant are correspondingly infective in producing Rontgen rays .
( 5 ) At the degrees of exhaustion most suitable for producing ontgen rays , and with concave cathodes of the usual dimensions , ie cathode stream proceeds almost entirely from a small central ortion of the cathode surface , the remaining portion of the irface being apparently practically inoperative .
That this is \gt ; was very conclusively established , by photographs taken with ie tube shown in fig. 2 .
In the manufacture or subsequent ihaustion of this tube three very minute fragments of glass by some .eans attached themselves on to the concave surface of the alu-linium cathode , and remained fixed there during the experiments , he cathode itself was 29 mm. diameter , and the radial distances of he three glass fragments from the centre were respectively about mm. , 4 mm. , and 2 5 mm. In all the pin-hole photographs of the nti-cathode of this tube in which the enlargement of the active area ras sufficient , the shadows of the two glass fragments nearest to the entre of the cathode are clearly visible , while in none of them is lere any appearance of the third and outer fragment .
It , therefore , \lt ; evident that the whole of the cathode stream that was effective in roducing Rontgen rays came from an area of the cathode surface iss than 18 mm. diameter , or less than two-thirds of the full iameter of the cathode .
Further , in each case the shadows of the wo inner glass fragments appeared outside of the central nucleus , howing that the whole of the more intense portion of the cathode bream proceeded from a portion of the cathode surface less than 5 mm. i diameter .
These results confirm the writer 's observations made rith carbon cathodes.* I ( 6 ) The different portions of the cathode stream proceeding from ifferent portions of the cathode , cross at the focus and diverge in cone that retains any special characteristics of the convergent cone , 'lie relative positions of the two inner glass fragments on the athode , and the positions and enlargement of their shadows u the anti-cathode for different distances between the latter and the athode , were found to show this very clearly .
} ( 7 ) Though by far the greater portion of , the Rontgen rays given ya focus tube proceed from the active anti-cathode area , still , a ery appreciable quantity is also given off by all those portions of he glass of the tube that show the green fluorescence .
Using a somewhat large pin-hole , this is easily observed by turning he tube so that the more powerful rays from the anti-cathode cannot each the pin-hole , when a Rontgen ray image of the whole of the * 1 Roy .
Soo .
Proc. , ' vol. 61 , pp. 92\#151 ; 93 .
436 On the Source of the Rontge Rays in Focus Tubes .
fluorescent portions of the glass of the tube can be distinctly swi Further , it is noticeable that that portion of the glass that shows ie brightest fluorescence , i.e. , that part which lies in the path in whh cathode rays would be reflected from the anti-cathode surface we they reflected according to the law of equal angles of incidence nd reflection\#151 ; gives off the most Rontgen rays , while those portion^ the glass that show no fluoresence do not give off any Rhntgen rjg , The conclusion appears obvious that whatever produces the one m produces the other , but as has been pointed out by Professor S. ?
, Thompson* and others , the fluorescence is not due to the direct stran of rays from the cathode , which cannot reach portions of the glass tit show fluorescence , but to some description of radiation that procels from the surface of the anti-cathode that faces the cathode .
In ie paper above referred to Professor Thompson calls these radiatiis " para-cathodic rays , " stating that they differ from the Rontgen is* in respect of their power of penetration , and in their capacitpf being electrostatically and magnetically deflectable .
In these H| spects the writer 's experiments confirm those of Professor Thompsn , but when the latter goes on to differentiate these rays from oii* nary cathode rays , on account of their not exciting Rontgen ns where they impinge on a solid surface , the writer is unable ; \#174 ; agree , for , as above stated , these rays do excite Rontgen rays wh'fl they impinge upon the glass walls of the tube ; as mentioned , howev , they do this only to an extent that is relatively very feeble , and\#174 ; far as the author knows only discernable by the pin-hole metho\lt ; M observation , which no doubt explains Professor Thompson 's failw to observe the effect .
The " para-cathodic " radiations in question\#174 ; not , however , appear to be ordinary cathode rays .
In the first plif they do not proceed directly from the cathode , but only from ie surface of the anti-cathode that faces the latter .
Secondly , they\#174 ; not appear to be negatively but positively charged , as can be aso-tained by means of an exploring pole connected with an elect-scope .
The writer suggests that , assuming the correctness of 19 Crookes theory of the nature of the cathode rays , these u pai-* cathodic " rays may very probably consist of cathode ray parties which , having struck the anti-cathode , and having thus given !
R their negative charges and acquired positive charges , rebound , boa by reason of their elasticity and also by repulsion from the an* cathode .
Perhaps owing to the comparative roughness of the an* cathode surface , they fly off to some extent in all available direction but they do so especially in that direction which the law of equal angl1 of incidence and reflection requires .
It also appears very possib that these " paracathodic " rays are identical with the positiVjBrf ' electrified streams proceeding from the anode , which the writer JWf * See * Phil. Trans* , ' A. , vol. 190 , pp. 471\#151 ; 490 .
W On the Companions of Argon .
:vestigated by means of radiometer mill wheels , recently described i a paper to the Physical Society .
In any case , it seems clear that in the tubes observed and photo--aphed with the pin-hole camera , the Rontgen rays given off by jrtain portions of the fluorescent glass are not originated by the apact of an ordinary cathode stream , but apparently by the apact of positively charged streams proceeding from the anti-ithode .
The writer is greatly indebted to Mr. J. C. M. Stanton and Mr. H. yson Wolff , for the construction of the apparatus described , as also .r valuable assistance in the carrying out of the experiments .
On the Companions of Argon .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , * and Morris W. Travers .
Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June ' 16,1898 .
For many months past we have been engaged in preparing a large uantity of argon from atmospheric air by absorbing the oxygen nth red-hot copper , and the nitrogen with magnesium .
The amount -e have at our disposal is some 18 litres .
It will be remembered hat one of us , in conjunction with Dr. Norman Collie , attempted to eparate argon into light and heavy portions by means of diffusion , nd , although there was a slight difference* in density between the ight and the heavy portions , yet we thought the difference too slight Oi warrant the conclusion that argon is a mixture .
But our xperience with helium taught us that it is a matter of the greatest difficulty to separate a very small portion of a heavy gas rom a large admixture of a light gas ; andvit therefore appeared advisable to re-investigate argon , with the view of ascertaining yhether it is indeed complex .
, In the meantime , Dr. Hampson had placed at our disposa is -esources for preparing large quantities of liquid air , ^ and it was a simple matter to liquify the argon which we had obtained by causing* -he liquid air to boil under reduced pressure .
By means of a two* vay stopcock the argon was allowed to enter a small bulb , cooled by liquid air , after passing through purifying reagents .
The two-way stopcock was connected with mercury gas-holders , as well as with l Topler pump , by means of which any part of the apparatus could be thoroughly exhausted .
The argon separated as a liquid , but at the same time a considerable quantity of solid was observed to separate partially round the sides of the tube , and partially below the * Density of lighter portion , 19-93 ; of heavier portion , 20-01 , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , \#187 ; rol .
60 , p. 206 .

