385 On the Occurrence of Certain Ciliated Infusoria within the Eggs of a Rotifer , considered from the Point of View of Heterogenesis .
By H. Charlton Bastian , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. ( Received February 14 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1905 .
) ( Plate 7 .
) ( Abstract .
) The weight of preconceptions against the possibility of the occurrence of Heterogenesis has hitherto been so strong as to have made it almost impossible to obtain any adequate consideration for the actual evidence adduced in favour of this or that alleged instance .
But of late , preconceptions in the domain of physics and chemistry have received severe shocks , and when we are told that a so-called " element " is daily being transformed and another is actually originating therefrom , there appears more chance of attention being paid to the alleged existence of phenomena in the organic world which would seem to be but the carrying on into a higher platform of the familiar but important phenomena known as allotropism and isomerism .
Hitherto , alleged instances of heterogenesis have , without adequate consideration of evidence , been almost always assumed to be results of " infection , " but the writer claims that in the cases with which the present article is concerned , any such explanation is quite impossible in regard to one of the cases , at least , in which we have masses of living matter so large that they average ^ mm. in diameter , being converted in the course of three days into great Ciliated Infusoria of equal bulk .
The communication deals with two sets of heterogenetic transformations occurring in the great eggs or " gemmae " of one of the largest of the Rotifers , namely , ( 1 ) the transformation of the entire contents of a Hydatina egg into a single great Otostoma ; and ( 2 ) the segmentation of the Hydatina egg into 12 to 20 spherical masses , and the development of these sometimes into embryo Yorticellae , and sometimes into embryo Oxytrichae .
Rotifers and Ciliated Infusoria belong to such distinct phyla of the animal kingdom that no immediate kinship can possibly obtain between them , and consequently heredity , in the ordinary sense of the term , can have nothing to do VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. 2 D 386 Prof. H. C. Bastian .
On the Occurrence of certain [ Feb. 14 ) with the forms assumed by the Ciliates taking origin from such a source .
Thus , if I can prove that two or more wholly different forms of Ciliated Infusoria can be produced from transformations of the substance of the eggs of a particular Rotifer , I shall not only establish the reality of heterogenesis in one of its most striking phases , but shall go far to show that the varied forms even of such organisms as the Ciliata are as much the outcome of their molecular composition and of the laws of " polarity ' as are the various forms assumed by crystalline matter .
( 1 ) The transformation of the entire contents of a egg into a great Otostoma.\#151 ; Having witnessed on very many occasions the stages of this remarkable transformation of the contents of a Rotifer 's egg into a Ciliated Infusorium , I am desirous of acquainting the Royal Society with the simple procedure needful to enable zoologists to study for themselves the series of changes leading to a result which many of them may be disposed to deem incredible .
All that is necessary is to procure a good stock of these large Rotifers by placing some surface mud , having a coating of Euglense , from a ditch in which Hydatinae are known to exist , into a glass bowl , and to pour thereon water to a depth of about 4 inches .
In the course of two or three days ( with a temperature of 16 ' or 17 ' C. ) , if the Hydatinse are abundant , a good crop of their large eggs will be seen at the surface of the fluid , where it is in contact with the glass .
The difficulty is to find suitable sites in which the Hydatinse are really abundant .
An excellent source from which I formerly obtained supplies has since been destroyed .
By the aid of a scalpel passed along their track for a short distance , groups of 20 to 30 eggs may be taken up at one time , and gently pressed off the edge of the blade into a small , white stone pot full of water .
Some of such small masses of eggs ( mixed , perhaps , with a few Euglense ) will float , and others will sink .
After seven or eight of these masses have been gathered and deposited , the cover should be placed upon the pot so as to cut off from the eggs all light rays , both visible and invisible.* If the supply of eggs will admit of it , two other pots should be similarly charged ; but if there are not enough eggs for this purpose , the two other pots should be charged on successive days with fresh batches of eggs .
The larger the supplies of new-laid Hydatina eggs the more convincing will be the result .
Thus on one occasion when my supply was very abundant , * Full details as to the best means of obtaining supplies of Hydatinse , dealing with them , and subsequently obtaining the largest proportion of freshly laid eggs , will be found in my " Studies in Heterogenesis , " pp. 125 and 286 .
1905 .
] Ciliated Infusoria within the Eggs of a Rotifer .
gatherings of eggs were made at intervals of six hours , and among such eggs as were subsequently taken from the pots I found that from 12 to 25 per cent , yielded Otostomata rather than Hydatince .
When the pots have remained covered and undisturbed for 36 hours at a temperature of about 17 ' C. , one of them may be opened , and some of the small masses of eggs from the bottom of the pot should be taken up with a tiny pipette and placed in a drop of water on a microscope slip .
Before covering the specimens , a minute fragment of a cover-glass should be placed at each side of the drop of water , so as to protect the delicate eggs from undue pressure .
On examination by a low power of the microscope it will be seen that there are many empty egg-cases , that within some eggs there are embryo Hydatinse in different stages of development , while within the remaining eggs the contents will be wholly different , consisting of an aggregate of minute pellucid vesicles , each containing a few granules , together with a variable amount of granules interspersed among the vesicles , as in Plate 7* fig. 4 .
A newly laid egg is shown in fig. 1 , while figs. 3 and 4 represent twc ?
intermediate stages between it and the condition represented in fig. 4 .
In fig. 5 we have six Hydatina eggs and an empty egg-case , shown under a lower power , all of which were taken from one of the pots after 36 hours .
The three central eggs are in the vesicular \#166 ; stage of transformation into Ciliates , while the three others show Hydatinse in different stages of development .
If the cover should be again placed upon this pot with a view to the examination of other portions of its contents 24 or 36 hours later , and this examination is made , it will be found that no further advance has taken place , that the eggs previously in the vesicular condition still remain in this stage , and are , in fact , no further developed than some of their fellows were when previously examined .
I have found on many occasions that the opening of a pot at an early stage of the transformation\#151 ; even for only four or five minutes\#151 ; arrests the whole process of change .
It was for this reason that I advised three separate pots to be charged , so that their contents might be examined at different periods .
When , however , a second pot is opened two and a-half or three days after the eggs have been placed therein , and portions of its contents are examined in the same way , a larger proportion of empty egg-cases will be seen .
There may be few or even no developing Rotifers still remaining within the e8gs , and in other egg-cases , instead of the motionless vesicular contents 2 d 2 388 Prof. H. C. Bastian .
On the Occurrence of certain [ Feb. 14 previously seen , great Ciliates may be found slowly revolving within the egg-case , as with the specimen shown in fig. 6 before it was killed by a weak iodine solution ; or else , under the influence of the light , rupturing the egg .
case , struggling out , as in fig. 7 , and swimming away with rapid movements partly of rotation .
Some of the Infusoria before they emerge undergo segmentation into two , four , or rarely , even into eight smaller Ciliates .
An undivided specimen which had been swimming about for half an hour , and in which the cilia are better developed , is shown in fig. 8 .
The large undivided Infusoria have their bodies densely packed with large corpuscles ( modified representatives of the vesicles of an earlier stage ) ; and a large elongated nucleus which can be seen in some of them , though generally not well without the aid of reagents .
They possess the characteristic earshaped mouth indicated by the name Otostoma , and cilia are distributed all over the body in longitudinal lines , so as to give the appearance of a delicate longitudinal striation\#151 ; both these features being visible in the starved specimen represented in fig. 9 .
In the event of the Ciliates being not yet fully developed at the time that the second pot is opened , we have the third pot , whose contents we can investigate slightly later .
As a control experiment it will be well at the time that the pots are charged to place two or three batches of the eggs with some of the same water into a watch glass , which is left exposed to light ; and at the expiration of three or four days , as well as at later periods , to search among its contents for any of the same large Ciliates , and also for any eggs in the intermediate vesicular stage above referred to .
I have invariably found that such a search yielded only negative results .
In taking batches of eggs , in the manner indicated , to be placed in the pots , individual eggs will necessarily be of different ages .
Some will have already begun to develop into Rotifers , and some of these , under the altogether unnatural conditions to which they are subjected in the dark pots , are apt to become more or less malformed as development proceeds .
Others that have been quite recently laid will not have begun to develop , and it is these latter eggs apparently , which , under the cutting off not only of ordinary light but probably of some invisible light rays , become speedily transformed into great Ciliated Infusoria .
Cutting off ordinary light rays alone from the eggs , by placing them in a small covered glass dish shut up in a cupboard or box and maintained at the same temperature as before , seemed at first not to lead to similar results ; but I subsequently ascertained that the transformation will occur under such conditions , though only after the lapse of about nine days .
It looks , therefore , as if the , stoppage of some invisible rays , 1905 .
] Ciliated Infusoria within the Eggs of a .
389 capable of passing through wood but not through stone , notably hastens the process .
Briefly enumerated , the stages of the transformation are these:\#151 ; ( 1\gt ; A freshly laid Hydatina egg ; ( 2 ) partial rearrangement of its contents on the way to the formation of a mass of small vesicles ; ( 3 ) the conversion of the major part of the egg substance into a mass of spherical vesicles of varying sizes ; ( 4 ) further changes in the aggregate of vesicles and intervening granules ; ( 5 ) the formation of the embryo Otostoma within an almost invisible hyaline endocyst ; ( 6 ) the development of cilia and the slow rotation of the embryo within this envelope ; ( 7 ) the bursting of the hyaline envelope , with freer play of cilia and more rapid movements within the egg-case ; ( 8 ) in some instances fission into two , four , or more , active segments ; ( 9 ) rupture of the Rotifer egg-case , and the appearance of its contents in the form of a very large and rapidly moving Ciliated Infusorium belonging to the genus Otostoma .
During a period of eight or nine months in which I was working at this subject , off and on , I took some hundreds of the Otostomata in different stages of development from the experimental vessels .
On one occasion I found two eggs within a dead Hydatina in a vesicular condition like that shown in figs. 3 and 4 ; and on another occasion I found a living Otostoma within a dead Hydatina , as an outcome probably from such an egg .
Details as to the conditions under which they were met with are given in my " Studies in Heterogenesis , " pp. 133 to 136 ; and in the same work full particulars will be found of the transformation of the eggs of another Rotifer ( belonging to the genus Callidina ) within the dead bodies of the parents into a different kind of Ciliate , belonging to the genus Glaucoma\#151 ; showing that the origin of Otostoma in the manner indicated in this paper is far from being an isolated occurrence .
In the months that these observations were being made , and previously , during prolonged work with other materials taken from the same site , no Otostomata had ever been seen in association with Hydatinse , except those that had been taken from the experimental vessels .
On two occasions since , however , though from wholly different localities , Otostomata have been found pretty abundantly in association with Hydatinae.* The adult forms have been * It is , of course , quite possible that on certain occasions freshly-laid Hydatina eggs in ditches may be exposed to much the same kind of conditions as those to which they would be exposed in my experimental vessels .
That such a transformation does not occur oftener depends probably upon the fact that it can only be brought about in eggs which have been quite freshly laid .
390 Prof. H. C. Bastian .
On the Occurrence of certain [ Feb. H ) found to be much larger , having from two to three times the length of the great embryos which issue from the egg-cases ; and also to be more highly organised , seeing that what appeared to be a simple contractile vesicle has only once been seen in one of these embryo forms , while it is always present in a developed form , in association with 10 to 12 spindle-shaped radiating channels , in the adult specimens .
A starved specimen of one of these Otostomata , leading a free life , showing the small ear-like mouth and the large nucleus , is shown in fig. 10 .
Many of these adult specimens I have been able to keep for two months , and have seen them pass into an encysted condition .
When in this state their bulk may be seen to be several times greater than that of Hydatina eggs .
They are , likewise , enclosed in thick cyst walls , wholly unlike the thin egg-cases of the Hydatina .
A rather small specimen in this condition is shown in fig. 10 .
A Hydatina egg could not possibly be confounded with an adult encysted Otostoma ; and the embryo Otostoma which emerges from the egg-case embodies the whole of the transformed substance of the egg .
No minute Otostoma is ever to be seen within an egg , contents .
JSTo Ciliate is seen till the total contents of the egg having been transformed , the whole mass begins to revolve within the egg-case as a great embryo Otostoma .
( 2 ) The Origin of 12 to20 Vorticellae or Oxytrichce from the substance of a single Hydatina Egg.\#151 ; These are most remarkable variations , which at different times have been occasionally met with in Hydatina eggs taken from the experimental vessels .
Both of these changes have only been met with in eggs found at the surface of the fluid in the experimental vessels , while the transformation of the egg-mass into an Otostoma seems to occur more abundantly , away from the air , in eggs which drop to the bottom of the pots .
The changes into Oxytrichse have been met with in the spring on three separate occasions ; those into Yorticellse only once , and that in the autumn.* The first occasion on which the transformation of the Hydatina egg-substance into Oxytrichse was met with was in 1872 , and is thus referred to in " The Beginnings of Life " f:\#151 ; " The substance of some of the large thin-walled ' eggs ' of Hydatina senta was seen to have undergone segmentation into about 16 spheres , each 1/ 1000 , / in diameter .
The external layers of * It is admitted that metamorphosis from one to another form occasionally occurs among the Ciliata during their stage of encystment ( Carpenter on \#163 ; The Microscope , Eighth Edition , 1901 , by Dallinger , p. 780 ) ; and among such instances of alleged transformation it is of interest to note that the origin of Oxytrichse from encysted Vorticell\#174 ; was described and illustrated by Pineau in the ' Annals des Sciences Naturelles , ' 1848 ( Zool. ) , p. 99.\#151 ; Note added June 29 , 1905 .
t Vol. 2 , p. 489 .
1905.1 Ciliated Infusoria within the Eggs of a Rotifer .
these soon became condensed into cyst-walls , whilst the internal substance of each of them , after undergoing a series of molecular changes , resolved itself into an embryo Oxytricha , some of which might be seen revolving within their cysts .
Some of this batch of Rotifers ' ' eggs ' were seen to be filled with such spherical masses , whilst others were observed in which a few of the embryos had escaped from their cysts , and were swimming about as well-marked specimens of Oxytricha within the thin investing membrane of the Rotifer egg .
" Unfortunately , nothing was stated as to the conditions to which these eggs had been subjected , and it was my quest in this direction , resumed about five years ago , that finally led to the discovery of the origin of Otostomata and of Yorticellse , as well as to the repetition of my observations concerning the heterogenetic origin of Oxytrichse , from Hydatina eggs .
Fig. 12 shows the conversion of the egg-substance into a number of large but unequal spherical masses ; while in fig. 13 another Hydatina egg is shown , surrounded by Euglense and Diatoms in a later stage of development .
The 20 unequal spheres are exactly similar to others which were seen in contiguous eggs , whose development was traced into embryo Vorticellse such as are represented in fig. 14 .
If the egg-substance is found to have segmented into 12 to 20 more or less equal spherical masses , there is at first no means of knowing whether such masses are to be developed into embryo Yorticellse , or into embryo Oxytrichse .
But if either of the masses is seen to be revolving within its own delicate cyst , we may be sure that this particular egg will not yield Yorticellse , as these embryos do not revolve before rupturing their cysts , and the Hydatina egg produces either the one or the other form\#151 ; never a mixture of the two .
It cannot be supposed that 12 to 20 of either of these Oiliates in an embryo condition could penetrate the egg-case , could devour its contents without being seen , and would then , as embryos , encyst themselves ( all in two days , or less)\#151 ; only , almost immediately after , again to pass out of their encysted condition , and to appear as the active young Yorticellse , or Oxytrichse , whose development I have traced .
In the normal development of a Hydatina egg it never goes through changes in which it is converted into an aggregate of minute vesicles , or into a smaller number of separate and larger spheres , such as occurs as a prelude to the transformation of the egg-contents into Ciliated Infusoria of this or that kind .
When the facts recorded in this communication are made known to other workers in different parts of the world , some of whom may have no difficulty Ciliated Infusoria within the Eggs of a Rotifer .
\#171 ; in finding plenty of material with which to work , and who may be skilled , as I am not , in modern methods of making sections of such minute objects as Hydatina eggs , doubtless much highly interesting information will be forthcoming of a nature to satisfy cytologists as to the histological details of the transformation in question .
These minute details , however , I must leave to others ; all I claim is to have established the fact itself of the heterogenetic origin of different kinds of Ciliated Infusoria from the eggs of one and the same Eotifer .
The seeming utter improbability of such a fact may be taken as some measure of its enormous importance , for biological science , when we consider the far from simple structure of these unicellular Ciliates , that no kinship of any sort , in the ordinary sense of the word , exists between them and Eotifers , and , further , that even totally different forms of Ciliated Infusoria are capable of being produced from the egg-substance of a Hydatina according as it becomes transformed as a whole , or only after having undergone segmentation into a varying number of small spherical masses .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
( Plate 7 .
) Figs. 5 and 14 are magnified 125 diameters , while all the others are magnified 250 diameters .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A newly-laid egg , or " gemma , " of Hydatina .
Figs. 2 , 3 , 4.\#151 ; Different stages in the transformation of the egg-substance into a motionless aggregate of vesicles and granules , different from anything which is ever to be seen during the normal development of the Hydatina egg .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Six Hydatina eggs and an empty egg-case , taken from one of the pots after 36 hours .
The three central eggs are in the vesicular stage of transformation into Ciliates , while the three others show different stages in the development of Hydatinse .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; An embryo Otostoma which was seen slowly revolving within a Hydatina egg-case , taken from a pot after the expiration of three days .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; An Otostoma escaping from the egg-case after the application of a weak iodine solution .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; An Otostoma which was seen to rupture , and emerge from , an egg-case .
Killed after about half an hour .
Cilia now numerous , and well-developed .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; A starved Otostoma , showing the small ear-like mouth , a very large elongated nucleus dimly indicated above and to the left , and fine longitudinal surface markings caused by rows of cilia .
Fig. 10 A small fully-developed Otostoma in a starved condition , showing small ear-like mouth and large nucleus .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; A rather small Otostoma encysted .
Fig. 12 .
Segmentation of a Hydatina egg into a number of large vesicular bodies .
Fig. 13 .
Presumed later stage of such an egg as is shown in the last figure , now divided into about 20 unequal , evenly granular , spherical masses , such as were seen in contiguous eggs to give rise to minute embryo Vorticellae .
Fig. 14 .
Three empty egg-cases ( save for one remaining sphere ) , with a number of the young Vorticellaj in different stages of development .
Bastictn .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 76\#151 ; b , Plate 7 .

