1886 .
] On the Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
255 March 25 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Abstract of Paper upon the Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
" By W. P. Herringham , M.B. .
M.R.C.P. , Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S. Received March 8 , 1886 .
The paper is based upon 55 dissections , 32 foetal and 23 adult .
The posterior thoracic is formed by the 5th , 6th , and usually the 7th .
The 5th supplies the first two digitations , the 6th the next two , the 6th and 7th the lower five , or if there is no 7th , the 5th may supply three , and join the 6th for the remainder .
The suprascapular is given off from the 5th , with or without a minute fibre from the 6th .
The anterior thoracics are formed usually by the 6th , the 7th , the 8th , and the 9th. .
The 6fch and 7th form the external , supplying the upper part of the pectoralis major , the 7th gives the communicating branch which supplies the middle , and the union of this with the internal from the 8th and 9th , supplies the lower part of the muscle .
The minor is supplied by the 7th , 8th , and 9th .
The coraco brachialis is supplied by the 7th .
The rest of the musculo cutaneous is formed by the 5th and 6th .
Both nerves enter the biceps and brachialis anticus .
The cutaneous branch is mostly from the 6th , slightly also from the 5th .
The median is formed by the 6th , 7th , 8th , and 9th .
The 6th supplies the pronator teres , flexor carpi radialis , superficial thenar muscles , and radial finger , or fingers .
The 7th supplies the flexor sublimis , occasionally the anterior interosseous , the palmar cutaneous , and the finger next the 6th .
The 8th supplies the flexor sublimis , the anterior interosseous , and the fingers inside the 7th .
The 9th supplies the anterior interosseous , and usually ends there .
The ulnar is formed by the 8th and 9th ; the muscles in the forearm are supplied by both , those in the hand by the 8th .
The 9th supplies the cutaneous branches in front , the 8th the dorsal branch .
256 On the Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus .
[ Mar. 25 , The internal and lesser internal cutaneous are usually supplied by the 9th , the former occasionally by the 8th as well .
The posterior branches :\#151 ; The subscapularis is supplied by branches from the 5th and 6th only ; the teres major by the 6th , often with a twig from the 7th ; the latissimus dor si by the 7th , often with a twig from the 8 th .
The circumflex is formed by the 5th and 6th .
The latter is not traced to the teres minor .
Both go to the deltoid .
The cutaneous branch is formed by the 5th alone , or by both .
The musculo spiral is formed by the 6th , 7th , and 8th ; sometimes the 5th , and rarely the 9th , send branches to it .
The triceps is supplied by the 7th and 8th .
The long head usually by the 8th , the inner head by the 7th and 8th , and the outer by the 7th .
The 6th sometimes runs to the outer head .
The internal cutaneous branch comes from the 8th .
The short external cutaneous springs from the 6th , the long varies round the 7th .
The brachialis anticus , supinator longus , and supinator brevis are supplied by the 6th .
The extensor carpi radialis longor and brevior are supplied by the 6th or 7th , usually the latter .
The radial is supplied by the 6th alone , or by the 6t , h and 7th .
The posterior interosseous is usually from the 7th alone , sometimes with aid from the 8th .
The nerves , both sensory and motor , are shown to obey the following law:\#151 ; I. Any given fibre may alter its position relative to the vertebral column , but will maintain its position relative to other fibres .
An exceptional case is detailed in exemplifying this law .
The muscles are classed in a table , according to their motor nerve supply .
The system of the motor supply appears to be not according to use , but according to position , morphological not functional , and obeys the following law , composed of three rules :\#151 ; II .
A. Of two muscles , or of two parts of a muscle , that which is nearer the head end of the body tends to be supplied by the higher , that which is nearer the tail end by the lower nerve .
B. Of two muscles , that which is nearer the long axis of the body tends to be supplied by the higher , that which is nearer the periphery by the lower nerve .
C. Of two muscles , that which is nearer the surface tends to be supplied by the higher , that which is further from it by the lower nerve .
These rules are applied in detail .
1886 .
] Magnetisation and the Length of Iron Wires .
257 The system of the sensory supply is examined in detail .
It is shown to follow a law composed of two rules :\#151 ; III .
A. Of two spots on the skin , that which is nearer the preaxial border tends to be supplied by the higher nerve .
B. Of two spots in the preaxial area , the lower tends to be supplied by the lower nerve , and of two spots in the area , the lower tends to be supplied by the higher nerve .
It is shown that this is the case with all membranes stretched into a sheath by something pushing out into them , and the epiblastic layer of the epidermis is compared to such a membrane , pushed into a tubal sheath by the developing mesoblast .
A note is added showing that other observers have reached similar results by other methods , and notably that Eorgue has formulated laws for the motor nerves of the monkey , identical with those laid down in the present paper .
II .
" On the Changes produced by Magnetisation in the Length of Iron Wires under Tension .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. Communicated by Professor F. Guthrie , F.R.S. Received March 10 , 1886 .
In a paper communicated to the Royal Society about a year ago , * I discussed the results of certain experiments made by Joule in relation to " the Effects of Magnetism upon the dimensions of Iron and Steel Bars."f It is well known that the length of an iron rod is in general slightly increased by magnetisation .
Joule enunciated the law that the elongation is proportional in a given bar to the square of the magnetic intensity , and that it ceases to increase after the iron is fully saturated .
J My own experiments , made with a greater range of magnetising forces and with thinner rods than those used by Joule , show that if the magnetising current is gradually increased after the so-called saturation point of the iron has been reached , the elongation , instead of remaining at a maximum , is diminished , until when the current has attained a certain strength , the original length of the rod is unaltered , and if this strength be exceeded , actual retraction is produced .
Joule also found that when the experiment was performed upon an iron wire stretched by a weight , the magnetic extension was in all * " On the Changes produced by Magnetisation in the Length of Rods of Iron , Steel , and Nickel .
" " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 40 , p. 109 .
f " Phil. Mag. " [ 3 ] , vol. xxx , pp. 76 , 225 , and the Phys. Soc. 's Reprint of Joule 's Scientific Papers , p. 235 .
X Reprint , pp. 245 , 255 .

