On the Means of procuring a steady Light in Coal Mines without the danger of Explosion .
By William Reid Clanny , M.D. of Sunderland .
Communicated by William Allen , Esq. F.R , S. Read May 20 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 200 .
] The author having resided several years near the coal mines in the county of Durham , has paid much attention to the circumstances of those explosions which so frequently occasion the death of many industrious people , and has contrived a lamp , which he thinks likely to answer the purpose of illumination , without any danger attending its use .
He is of opinion , that ventilation , as at present practised , has little or no effect in preventing explosions ; since it has no tendency to diminish the quantity of inflammable gas emitted by the old workings , which must always be in danger of exploding wherever it comes into contact with atmospheric air , if light be applied to it .
The partitions and folding doors put up at the entrances of old workings appear to be very inadequate to prevent the occurrence of such explosive mixtures ; and their frequency is shown by the number of accidents which the author enumerates as having taken place in his own neighbourhood alone in the course of the last seven years .
The number of explosions in the course of that time has been six ; and these have destroyed more than two hundred pit-men , who have left wives and children in a state of poverty and distress .
In some instances , large pumps have been erected at the top of the shaft , worked by steamengines , for the purpose of drawing off the inflammable gas from those parts where it most abounds ; but even these have been found insufficient , since the engine will not , in all instances , be applied to the part where it is most wanted : and it is estimated , that wherever 2a the quantity of inflammable gas amounts to one twelfth part of the atmospheric air present , an explosion may take place .
For the purpose of preventing such accidents , Dr. Clanny has contrived to insulate a candle , by water placed both above and below the lantern in which it is contained .
The air , which is intended to support the flame , is supplied by means of a pair of common bellows , by which it is forced through the water beneath the flame ; and it is again emitted , after having supported the combustion , by a bent tube that passes into water from the top of the lantern .
In consequence of this arrangement , if the air of the mine becomes liable to inflame , the explosion will be confined to the mere content of the lantern , of which only a small part will be consumed , unless the quantity of inflammable gas be very suddenly increased .
This communication is accompanied by drawings of the lantern and its parts in detail , whereby any workman may be enabled to execute it according to the design of the author .

