The Gold-Aluminium Series Yarkand Mission , Second .
Scientific Results .
Introductory Note and Map .
4to .
London 1891 ; Aves , by R. B. Sharpe .
4to .
London j The Government of India .
h -J-------------------Silver Medal , inscribed Johann Svatopluk Presl : Karl Borivoj Presl .
Mr. W. T. Tliiselton Dyer , E.R.S. Twenty-two Volumes , various , viz. , seven vols .
4to and fifteen vols .
gvo .
Also fifty-five parts of ' Philosophical Transactions , ' and 217 Nos. of ' Proceedings of the Royal Society .
' The Relatives of the late Mr. W. H. L. Russell , P.R.S. January 28,1892 .
% Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read I. " On the Melting Points of the Gold-Aluminium Series of Alloys .
" By W. C. Roberts-Austen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 25 , 1892 .
The author has already described and exhibited to the Society a new alloy of gold and aluminium , AuA12 , which is remarkable for its intense purple colour .
The physical constants of the gold-aluminium alloys are being determined and the results will soon be ready for publication , but the series has been found to have one interesting peculiarity which deserves special mention .
The author has shown ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol.49,1891 , p. 347 ) that the addition of 02 per cent , of aluminium to gold produces an appreciable fall in the freezing point , an addition of ( , '4 per cent , causing a fall of 14'28 ' , or an " atomic fall " of 5'0 ' C. These facts indicated that it was desirable to ascertain what are O melting points of the gold-aluminium series of alloys generally , and this has now been done with the aid of the Le Chatelier thermocouple used in the way which was previously described ( cit. ) .
I lie results show that , although a white alloy , containing 10 per cent , of aluminium , has a melting point which is no less than 417 lower than that of gold ; the purple alloy , on the other hand , melts 2 c 2 368 The Gold-Aluminium Series of Alloys .
- [ Jan. 28 , I at a point which has yet to be definitely fixed , but which is several degrees above gold.* In fact , when workmen who are accustomed to | melt gold on a large scale , attempt to melt this purple substance , they find it difficult to believe that they are dealing with a gold alloy , as it is so infusible . .
\#166 ; *. .
The melting points of the rest of the series richer in aluminium appear fo fall continuously to 660 ' , a little below the melting point of aluminium ( 665* C. ) .
, The purple alloy presents the only case , known td the author , of an alloy , free from mercury , having a higher melting point than that of the least fusible of its constituents , and he considers that this fact affords strong evidence of its being a true compound of gold and aluminium .
It is generally admitted that there are true compounds in the copper-tin series , for SnCu3 and SnCu4 seem to be well defined , bnt their melting points are much lower than that of copper .
A. F. Laurie has just shown ( 'Phil .
Mag. , ' January , 1892 ) that in the gold-tin seme 's , the alloy containing 63 per cent , of gold and 37 per cent , of tin has an electromotive force which distinguishes it from the rest of the series and points conclusively to its being a true compound , but the author finds that it melts readily below redness .
The melting points of ordinary chemical compounds are often much higher than the melting point of the least fusible constituent .
Galena , for instance , melts at a strong red beat ; it is difficult to fix the point accurately as the substance volatilizes , but .
it is close to 900 ' C. Its constituents , lead and sulphur , melt at 335 ' and 115 ' respectively .
Stibnite also , sulphide of antimony , melts at about 530 ' , according to Dr. Joly , while antimony fuses at 440 ' .
The gold-aluminium series is of unusual interest , and well deserves careful attention .
* [ Two very careful experiments were made , each with 40 grammes of the alloy , the cooling curve being traced by the autographic recorder already described ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' loc. cit.).- These curves gave 1065 ' and 1070 ' respectively as the melting point of the alloy AuA12 , the mean of which is 32'5 ' higher than the melting point of gold .
If , however , small quantities of the alloy be fused before the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe , it is easy to obtain a lower result , as aluminium is readily burnt out from the little mass .
The composition of the alloy is thereby changed to one of the series richer in gold , of which the melting points are lower than that of gold.\#151 ; Feb. 9 , 1892 .
j

