ration , for a period of about forty hours ; after which it is again concentrated , filtered , and then a solution of basic acetate of lead is added to it , which produces a precipitate : care should be taken not to use more of this solution than is necessary to obtain a complete precipitation in the fluid .
The precipitate appears white , although containing a little colouring-matter ; it is to be collected on a filter and washed with distilled water until the washings contain but a trace of lead .
The insoluble substance on the filter is a lead-compound of the organic colloid acid ; it still contains a small quantity of colouring-matter , some hydrated oxide of lead , more or less chloride of lead , and perhaps traces of sulphate of lead .
In order to effect the removal of these impurities , the insoluble compound is first decomposed with sulphuretted hydrogen or sulphuric acid ; if sulphuretted hydrogen is employed , the excess of this gas is afterwards expelled by boiling or better by blowing it out with a current of air .
The acid fluid being now heated with animal charcoal and filtered , loses the whole , or nearly the whole of its colouring-matter , and apparently much of its urinous smell .
Any hydrochloric acid present can be easily separated from the free organic acid by treating the colourless fluid with carbonate of silver and filtering ; the dissolved silver is afterwards eliminated by means of sulphuretted hydrogen , and the excess of sulphuretted hydrogen again removed by boiling the fluid , or passing through it a current of air .
The careful addition of baryta-water will precipitate any sulphuric acid present .
Finally the acid is precipitated afresh with basic acetate of lead , from which it is separated by decomposing the thoroughly washed precipitate with sulphuretted hydrogen .
The object of the various operations thus described will be readily understood .
By evaporating urine with animal charcoal , it is first partly discoloured ; the precipitation with baryta-water throws down the phosphoric and sulphuric acids and the lime of the secretion , which would interfere with further operations , and imparts to the fluid a strongly alkaline reaction , this last condition being apparently necessary to avoid a loss of the colloid acid during the dialysis .
In order to prevent decomposition , which would occur by concentrating with heat a strongly alkaline urine , the fluid is dialyzed at once for about thirty-six hours , which operation removes from it a considerable proportion of its crystalloid constituents ; among these are chlorides , which it is advisable to get rid of , as much as possible , before concentration and precipitation with basic acetate of lead , because by so doing a great saving in the carbonate of silver , necessary to precipitate the remaining hydrochloric acid , will be effected .
If basic acetate of lead is used in excess , the precipitate begins to redissolve ; the precipitant should therefore be added very gradually , testing the fluid now and then to ascertain whether the precipitation be complete .
I have also observed the precipitate to be soluble in a solution of caustic potash .
The lead-compound collected on a filter is to be thoroughly washed , to remove any excess of basic acetate of lead , and a solution of the lead-compound of the colloid acid , to which I shall refer hereafter .
2 [ 1864 .
As the lead precipitate appears to be slightly soluble in water , it is difficult to ascertain precisely the period at which the washing may be considered sufficient .
I usually continued pouring distilled water into the filter until sulphuretted hydrogen gave but a faint dark colour in the filtrate .
The decomposition of the insoluble compound by means of sulphuretted hydrogen is a slow process , and takes some hours before it is complete ; and it will be advisable to leave the precipitate in contact with sulphuretted hydrogen overnight : the excess of sulphuretted hydrogen may be expelled by boiling , or by a stream of air , by which latter method the coloration caused by heat is avoided .
The Acid.-The fluid prepared as stated above has a strong acid reaction ; exposed to the air for a fortnight , and even for a longer period , it is not altered .
When concentrated even by very brisk boiling , it may be considered as undergoing no loss and no decomposition , as shown by the following experiments:-75 cub. centims. of the acid , 5 cub. centims. of which were neutralized by 24'3 cub. centims. of a normal potash solution , were boiled down to 15 cub. centims. , then diluted with water to 75 cub. centims. , and tested with the normal potash solution ; 23'4 cub. centims. of this solution were found necessary to neutralize it .
Any decomposition must have been very slight , as the difference between the volumes of the potash solution added before and after the boiling was only of about 1 cub. centim. As a further proof that the acid is not volatile , I distilled a sample of it in a retort , in the free flame , carrying on the operation until nothing but a dark semifluid mass remained in the retort .
The distillate was just faintly acid to the most delicate test paper .
In most of my experiments the acid was slightly coloured , and evolved a urinous smell when liot .
Under the impression that this odoriferous substance might be a volatile acid , such as those discovered by Stadeler * , I was led to examine very carefully the distillate obtained as above .
This fluid had a strong smell of urine and the faintest acid reaction .
After the fluid was rendered alkaline by baryta , the smell was in no way diminished ; so that it could not be owing to an acid ; moreover , considering that the colloid acid loses its colour , and apparently in a great measure its odour , after agitation with animal charcoal , we may infer that the odour of urine is owing to a very slight decomposition of the colloid acid which takes place under the influence of heat , and more especially in the presence of free mineral acids .
Returning to the solution of the colloid acid in water : after concentration by heat its colour darkens and it becomes syrupy , with a sharp acid taste , and a slight acrid and astringent after-taste .
This taste is perceptible in the solution , even when very dilute .
I could never obtain any crystals in this syrup beyond those resulting from inorganic impurities .
When dried , the acid assumes the form of a transparent varnish , which , by a temperature of 120 ?
Cent. , becomes much darkened .
The dried substance is very hygroscopic , and dissolves readily in water ( with the exception of some few dark flakes ) after exposure for some time at 120 ?
Cent. Alcohol , sp. gr. 827 , gives it a dull , opaque appearance , and slightly dissolves it .
The dry acid is insoluble in ether , and its solution in diluted alcohol is rendered turbid by ether .
When burnt it chars , emitting a pungent smell ; the ignition is attended with but a very faint flame , showing that very little hydrogen enters into its composition ; nothing but a trace of fixed inorganic residue remains after complete incineration of the acid .
The colloid acid was found to have no action on polarized light ; it failed to precipitate egg-albumen , but precipitated casein in milk ; the precipitate was not redissolved in an excess of the acid , as in the case of acetic acid ; although strictly a colloid , it passes through the diaphragm of a dialyzer , but the phenomenon is not near so rapid as in the case of crystalloids .
In an alkaline fluid , however , the acid ( under the form of a compound ) does not find its way so readily through the dialyzer , and its passage is thereby checked in a considerable degree .
The qualitative composition of the colloid acid of urine was obtained by subjecting to analysis its insoluble lead-compound .
I found the organic substance to consist only of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen .
I have not yet determined the ultimate quantitative composition of the acid , but have succeeded in showing that it possesses an atomic weight , or combining proportion , thereby proving the acid to be a definite substance ; the atomic weight of the acid was determined by the analysis of its insoluble lead-salt and of its baryta-salt .
In order to analyze the insoluble lead-salt , a weighed quantity of the compound , dried at 120 ?
Cent. , was dissolved in acetic acid , and precipitated by means of sulphuric acid , with the addition of alcohol ; the sulphate of lead was collected in a filter , the filter burnt , and the inorganic residue treated with sulphuric acid ; the sulphate of lead was finally weighed .
TABLE showing the results obtained from the analysis of the insoluble lead-salt of the Colloid Acid of Urine .
W of lit of Protoxide Six samWelighl ofI Weight of | of lead in Acid in 100 pies of ceal-conpro-oxide of 100 parts of parts of the the acid .
pyzed.leadfound .
the comcompound .
l~yzed .
pound .
Exp. grm. grim .
0r 02 02 0146 655 34-5 f 66-4 B 1B .
0-298 0-2006 67-3 32'7 Average Acid ... 33-6 A. 0-6.75 0-4250 64-6 35-3 1F r50 I B. 0-516 0-338 65-5 345 J Average Acid. .
35-0 r A. 0'3735 0-2360 63-2 3609 A1 r 64-2 IIIB .
0-2835 0-1850 65-3 34-7 verag Acid..35-8 I ... ... .
05327 0-3552 66-6 33-4 V ... . .
0-612 0-5493 66-1 33'9 VI ... ... .
07183 0-6828 69-9 31-1 , _inoi 10prjiOxide of lead ... ... 66 3 Average in 100 parts { cid e , .
; ; : : .
33.7 100 0 [ 1864 .
4 Five out of the six analyses were made with the acid slightly coloured , to avoid possible inorganic impurityfrom the use of animal charcoal .
In analysis No. VI .
the acid had been treated with animal charcoal , and in this case the percentage of lead was a little higher .
It is possible that 33'7 is not the exact percentage of acid in the insoluble lead-compound , although it cannot be far from correct ; but when the difficulty of obtaining the leadprecipitate in a pure condition is taken into account , I think it will be admitted that the results of these analyses approach each other closely enough to show that the lead-precipitate of the colloid acid is a definite chemical compound .
Adopting the number 3317 as the percentage of acid , the equivalent weight of the acid and of the compound will be PbO ... ... ... ... 111'57 Acid ... ... ... ... ... 56'70 atomic weight of acid .
168'2 atomic weight of compound .
To prepare the baryta-compound of the colloid acid , I began by decomposing with sulphuric acid a known weight of the lead-salt ; and by proceeding as in the case of the analysis of the lead-compound , the amount of the colloid acid present was determined .
The acid was entirely washed through the filter along with some free sulphuric acid , and I treated the acid filtrate with carbonate of baryta , the mixture being heated for four or five hours , and filtered the next day ; the precipitate on the filter was finally washed with hot distilled water for from four to six days , and even after this lapse of time the washings still contained a trace of baryta .
I shall only report two out of several of these analyses , as in the others the deficiency of baryta dissolved was obvious .
I have calculated the atomic weight of the acid from the baryta-compound which yielded most baryta , as followsAnalysis No. I. per cent. Compound of colloid acid and J BaO ... .
0-4607 ... .
722 baryta 0-6382 ... ... .
Acid ... 01775 ... .
27'8 100'0 Analysis No. II .
Compound of colloid acid and J BaO ... .
0'5950 ... .
65 ' 7 baryta 0-9058 ... ... ... .
Acid ... .
0-3108 ... .
343 100'0 The atomic weights derived from analysis No. I. areBaO ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
7639 Acid ... ... ... ... ... . .
295 Compound ... . .
106'0 If we now compare the atomic weight of the acid in the baryta-compound ( 29'5 ) with that in the lead-compound ( 56'7 ) , it will be readily seen that the relative proportion of these two numbers being very nearly one to two , the lead-compound contains two equivalents of colloid acid ( 2 x 28 3 ) , and the baryta-salt one equivalent of the acid ( 28'3 ) ; the insoluble leadcompound is therefore an acid salt of the colloid acid .
I shall propose the number 28'3 as the atomic weight of the new acid .
We are now able to explain why the insoluble lead-salt of the colloid acid is soluble in an alkaline fluid such as potash .
Of the two equivalents of colloid acid , one combines with oxide of lead , and the other with potash , forming two soluble neutral salts , PbO .
2 acid + KO=PbO .
acid + KO .
acid .
Compounds of the Colloid Acid of Urine .
Lead-salts.-Basic acetate of lead added to the free acid , or solutions of its neutral salts , gives rise to a white precipitate .
When a glass rod moistened with a solution of basic acetate of lead is immersed into a moderately strong solution of the free acid , a precipitate forms , which disappears on agitating the fluid ; this can be repeated several times before the precipitate becomes permanent .
When the fluid no longer turns clear on agitation , the application of heat will dissolve the precipitate , but on the further addition of the precipitant , the hot liquid will soon remain turbid .
An excess of basic acetate of lead redissolves the precipitate ; this resolution appears to take place more readily when an excess of the precipitant is added to neutral salts of the colloid acid , than when added to the free acid .
After mixing basic acetate of lead with urine , treated as described above , and filtering , I observed that the filtrate still contained much organic matter , although the further addition of the reagent caused no turbidity .
I at first naturally thought that this was owing to the presence of another colloid substance in urine ; but my surprise was very great when I found that the pure acid obtained by decomposing its insoluble lead-compound could be but partly re-precipitated by means of basic acetate of lead , a comparatively large portion of organic matter remaining dissolved , as shown by evaporating a few drops of the fluid and incinerating the residue , which charred and burnt away , leaving a little oxide of lead on the spatula .
Having previously ascertained that the pure basic lead-salt was nearly perfectly insoluble in water , I could not for some time explain the phenomenon .
On reflecting upon the fact , it occurred to me that , as the liquor in which the acid had been precipitated appeared to contain some neutral acetate of lead* , possibly this salt had the power of dissolving the preci* The formation of this compound might be considered to have taken place as shown in the following equation : PbO 1 PbO C,4 H1 0 , +4 acid=2 ( PbO , 2 acid)+PbO , C4 H 03 .
PbO J [ 1864 .
6 pitate ; and on mixing some of the precipitate with a solution of neutral acetate of lead , and boiling , I observed a solution of the colloid compound to take place .
This experiment , repeated several times with different samples of the insoluble lead-compound of the colloid acid , yielded invariably the same result : although it happened in most cases that the precipitate was not entirely dissolved , it was very obvious that the greater portion of it had disappeared .
The phenomenon in question is very interesting , not only because it accounts partly for the fact that basic acetate of lead does not precipitate the whole of the colloid acid of urine , but also because it affords additional proof of the insoluble lead-compound being an acid lead-salt of the colloid acid .
A piece of wet blue test-paper is reddened when held over the opening of a test-tube in which the mixture of the precipitate and neutral acetate of lead is being boiled , showing that acetic acid is given off .
This would not happen unless there was an acid present to displace the acetic acid from the neutral acetate of lead ; and this acid must be the acid lead-salt .
There is now no difficulty in accounting for the solution of the acid lead-salt in neutral acetate of lead : one equivalent of the colloid acid combines with one equivalent of lead of the neutral acetate , two equivalents of neutral lead-salt of the colloid acid being formed , PbO .
2 ( acid)+ PbO C -I3 03= 2 ( PbO .
acid ) C43 03 , O while free acetic acid is evolved .
On incinerating the acid lead-salt of the colloid acid , it chars and leaves a residue consisting of metallic lead .
By boiling the free acid with a small quantity of hydrated oxide of lead , I have often been surprised at the small proportion of lead dissolved , which is apparently owing to the lead being entirely transformed into the insoluble acid salt .
After being boiled with a larger quantity of the oxide and filtered , still acid , a precipitate takes place in the fluid on cooling .
This precipitate must be a lead-salt of the acid .
I have not determined its quantitative composition .
With an excess of hydrated oxide of lead , the colloid acid forms a compound in a great measure insoluble in hot water .
After boiling the colloid acid with hydrated oxide of lead , it was observed that a yellowish-green crystalline deposit had formed in the capsule ; these crystals , on being burnt , appeared to contain but traces of organic matter .
I have not yet been able to determine their nature ; but it is difficult to believe them to be a compound of the organic acid with lead , this acid being strictly colloid in all its other properties .
When a solution of the salts of the colloid acid is boiled with hydrated oxide of lead , a portion only of the acid is precipitated ; so that this method is not available for the extraction of the acid from urine .
When the colloid acid is boiled with peroxide of lead , some lead is dissolved , and the solution becomes neutral , or but very faintly acid .
The acid dissolves silver from the carbonate , but it is not possible to neutralize it completely thereby .
When boiled with black oxide of copper , some copper is dissolved by the colloid acid .
The Baryta-Salt.--When the colloid acid of urine is boiled with carbo1864.1 7 nate of baryta , carbonic acid is evolved , the fluid becomes neutral , or very slightly alkaline , and is found to contain baryta .
If the insoluble lead-salt of the acid be decomposed with sulphuric acid , and the filtrate from the sulphate of lead boiled with carbonate of baryta , the fluid becomes more decidedly alkaline .
The analysis and composition of this baryta-salt has been given above ; the solution in a syrupy condition deposits no crystals .
The concentrated solution of the baryta-compound behaves as follows with reagents .
Basic acetate of lead:-A bulky precipitate soluble in an excess ; the precipitate reappears on addition of dilute nitric acid ; the further addition of nitric acid redissolves it .
Neutral acetate of lead:-A slight precipitate .
Nitrate of silver:-A slight precipitate readily soluble in nitric acid .
When the baryta-salt is boiled with carbonate of silver , but a small proportion of the metallic carbonate is decomposed even after long-continued boiling .
Acid nitrate of mercury:-A white precipitate becoming darker after a short time .
Tannic acid:-A slight precipitate .
It should be understood that the more concentrated the solution , the more abundant are the precipitates .
The Lime-Salt.-The lime-salt exhibits the same characteristic reactions as the baryta-salt ; it is formed by boiling the free acid with precipitated carbonate of lime .
The fluid remained acid after it had been boiled with pounded marble , although some lime was dissolved ; concentrated to a certain point , the solution becomes thick and syrupy , but deposits no crystals ; ammonia and oxalate of ammonia do not appear to precipitate completely the lime from the solution , but the precipitation is perfect by means of sulphuric acid and alcohol .
The Potashand Soda-salts.-We may infer from the earthy salts that the potashand soda-compounds of the colloid acid of urine have a slightly alkaline reaction .
There is no difficulty in neutralizing a given volume of the colloid acid with a potash solution , but it is questionable whether a definite chemical compound is thus obtained .
Physiological Relations of the Colloid Acid of Urine .
I have invariably found the colloid acid present in the urine , but its mode of extraction described above is calculated to give us but a very rough insight into the quantity naturally contained in the secretion .
After decomposing the lead-precipitate by sulphuretted hydrogen , a process which it must be remembered is a slow one , a given proportion of the fluid may be evaporated to dryness , the residue dried at between 101 ?
and 110 ?
Cent. , and its weight ascertained ; the result will be obtained somewhat more accurately by determining the ashes of the residue , and subtracting this weight from that of the residue .
I have extracted from 8 litres of urine 4'46 grammes of the colloid acid .
This is probably hardly half the quantity contained in that bulk of the secretion .
I have some reason to believe that the colloid acid described in this paper is not confined to the urinary fluid , but is found elsewhere in the human body ; indeed its secretion by the kidneys shows that it very probably exists in the blood .
My experiments on the blood have not yet been carried far enough to enable me to communicate the results obtained from this inquiry .
The functions of the colloid acid of urine while in the blood , assuming that it enters into its composition , must be very important .
There can be little doubt that it is intimately connected with the secretion of gastric juice , by displacing the hydrochloric acid of the chloride of sodium in the blood , and transforming the soda into a colloid salt , which , from its colloid nature , would be retained in the blood , while the free hydrochloric acid would pass into the stomach to form gastric juice .
I have undertaken an experiment in connexion with this point , which showed that , after dialyzing for five hours a mixture of chloride of sodium and of the colloid acid of urine , the hydrochloric acid had nearly entirely passed through the dialyzer , while rather less than half the amount of the colloid acid had remained on the diaphragm , holding some soda , though a small quantity , in solution ; from an accidental omission in my notes , I regret being prevented from giving the details of the experiment .
The free colloid acid being capable to a certain extent of passing through a membrane , its secretion by the kidneys , urine being generally acid , is easily accounted for .
As to the mode of formation of the colloid acid of urine in the human body , we have , so far , no positive knowledge .
From its composition and colloid nature , it may probably be derived from some transformation of the colloid non-nitrogenous product of the liver , known as the glucogenic substance .
Neubauer and Vogel 's book on urine contains an account of the mode of preparation and characters of four organic acids discovered in this secretion by Stideler , these substances being phenylic , taurylic , damaluric and damolic acid .
They are obtained from urine by distillation , and are crystalloids , and therefore can have no relation to the substance I have described in this paper .
When better acquainted with the chemical composition and physiological relations of the colloid acid of urine , I shall be able to give it an appropriate name .
1864 .
] 9 " On a Colloid Acid , a Normal Constituent of Human Urine .
" By WILLIAM MAtCET , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 28 , 1864* .
IN the autumn of 1862 , feeling assured that , besides the known normal crystalloid compounds found in urine , this secretion contained colloid substances , I submitted samples of the healthy secretion , after concentration , first , to the process of dialysis , and then to the action of reagents , and finally succeeded in precipitating with alcohol a colloid substance exhibiting a faintly acid or neutral reaction , and containing a small proportion of ash .
For a while my endeavours to obtain a definite compound from this amorphous mass were fruitless , until , on observing that basic acetate of lead produced a precipitate in its aqueous solution , I thought of examining this precipitate , and , by decomposing it with sulphuretted hydrogen , found it to consist of an organic acid combined with lead .
This new acid is possessed of the properties of a colloid substance ; it may be considered as having a definite combining proportion or equivalent weight , and is undoubtedly destined to become of great importance in physiological chemistry .
After having satisfied myself of the presence of a colloid acid in urine , I tried every means to obtain as much of it as possible from a given volume of the secretion , and prepare it in the pure condition ; and after having experienced many difficulties , I adopted the following method as the simplest and that yielding the most satisfactory results .
Mode of Preparation of the Colloid Acid .
Urine is mixed with animal charcoal and concentrated until reduced to about one-fourth of its original bulk .
It is filtered , and a solution of caustic baryta is added until complete precipitation by this agent be effected .
The fluid filtered from the baryta precipitate is dialyzed without further evapo ' Read June 16 , 1864 : see Abstract , vol. xiii .
p. 314 .

