The following papers were read : 1 .
" 1On the Nerves which supply the Muscular Structure of the Heart .
" By Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. Received Nov. 7 .
The author remarks that , in a paper entitled " On the Ganglia and Nerves of the Heart , " published in the Philosophical Transactions , Part I. 1839 , it is asserted , that " it can be clearly demonstrated that every artery distributed throughout the walls of the uterus and heart , and every muscular fasciculus of these organs , is supplied with nerves upon which ganglia are formed .
" He then states that " recent dissections which I have made of the heart of the race-horse , in which both the muscular and nervous structures are largely developed , demonstrate , that from the outer surface to the lining membrane the walls are universally pervaded with nerves , on which ganglia are formed , or enlargements invested with neurilemma , into which nerves enter and from which they issue , as in all the other ganglia of the great sympathetic nerve .
" From these dissections it is seen that the ganglionic nerves which ramify on the surface of the heart , those which have hitherto been delineated in the works of anatomists , are few in number compared to those which are distributed throughout the muscular structure of the organ , many of which are wholly independent of the blood-vessels .
" T his anatomical demonstration of the ganglia and nerves of the muscular structure of the heart , completely subverts the opinion still entertained by some physiologists , that the sensitive and contractile powers of the heart are independent of nervous influence .
It further indicates the real source of the action of the heart as an entire organ , from the commencement to the termination of life ; how the circulation of the blood is carried on when the foetus has neither brain nor spinal cord , and how the detached parts of the heart continue to contract for a time in some animals after its total separation from the body .
" These dissections are now open to examination by any gentleman who may feel interested in the anatomy and physiology of the heart .
" When Mr. West 's drawings of the nerves displayed in these dissections have been completed , they will be presented to the Royal Society , with a description of the appearances delineated .
"

