i ; )03 .
] Effect of Extreme Cold on the Emanations of Radium .
69 " Note on the Effect of Extreme Cold on the Emanations of Radium .
" By Sir William Crookes , F.R.S. , and Professor James Dewar , F.R.S. Received and read May 28 , 1903 .
As it seemed advisable to examine the action of extreme cold on the action of radium , the following experiments have been made , in continuation of work formerly done by either of us separately .
The first endeavour was to ascertain whether the scintillations produced by radium on a sensitive blende screen were affected by cold .
A small screen of blende with a morsel of radium salt close in front was sealed in a glass tube , and a lens was adjusted in front so that the scintillations could be seen .
On dipping the whole into liquid air they grew fainter and soon stopped altogether .
Some doubt was felt whether this might not have been caused ( 1 ) by the presence of liquid , ( 2 ) by the screen losing sensitiveness , or ( 3 ) by the radium ceasing to emit the heavy positive ions .
To test this two tubes were made , in one of which the radium salt could be cooled without the screen , and in the other the screen could be cooled while the radium salt was at the ordinary temperature .
The accompanying sketch explains their construction .
Fig 1 Fig. 2 .
Cold Radium .
Cold Screen .
VOL. LXXII .
G 70 Sir W. Crookes and Prof. J. Dewar .
[ May 28 , 1 .
Radium salt cooled by liquid air , fig. 1 .
Screen at ordinary temperature .
Scintillations quite as vigorous as with radium at the ordinary temperature , the screen and radium being in vacuo .
2 .
Radium at the ordinary temperature and screen cooled in liquid air , fig. 2 .
As the screen cooled the scintillations became fainter and at last could not be seen .
On allowing the temperature to rise the scintillations recommenced .
3 .
A screen with a speck of radium salt in front of it was sealed in a tube .
Water was put in the other end of the tube and the tube sealed on the pump .
A good exhaustion was kept up and the water boiled away , the vapour being condensed in phosphoric anhydride .
The tube was sealed off when a few fine drops of water were still remaining in the tube .
The scintillations were well seen in this saturated aqueous vapour .
The lower end of the tube was dipped in liquid air , which instantly condensed the aqueous vapour and left a very good vacuum .
On now examining the scintillations they were if anything brighter and more vigorous than at first .
When liquid hydrogen cooling was used instead of liquid air the action was equally marked , showing that the highest vacuum that can be obtained by the action of cold does not diminish the scintillations .
In the upper part of the tube , away from the radium and screen , two platinum wires were sealed to show the state of the vacuum .
The spark passed easily at the ordinary temperature , showing a reddish line of aqueous vapour .
When the other end of the tube was in liquid air the spark refused to pass .
4 .
It was thought that perhaps the passage of the induction spark might have liberated some occluded hydrogen , so another tube similar to the above was made without the platinum wires .
Here also immersion in liquid air , if it had any effect , brightened the scintillations , and on replacing the liquid and cooling by liquid hydrogen no change was observable .
In order to test the activity of radium in rendering air electrically conductive , some radium bromide was sealed up in a glass tube and heated to the highest temperature the glass would stand , during the production of as high a vacuum as the mercurial pump would give .
The whole tube was then immersed in liquid hydrogen contained in a vacuum vessel .
On bringing the radium in such a vessel into a room in which a charged electroscope was placed , it began to leak when the tube of radium surrounded with liquid hydrogen was some 3 feet away , and was very rapid in its action when a foot away from the electrometer .
On immersing the tube containing the liquid hydrogen with submerged radium in another large vessel of liquid air and bringing the combination near the electroscope the action was the same .
The luminosity of the radium salt in liquid hydrogen was much 1903 .
] Effect of Extreme Cold on the Emanations of Radium .
71 more marked with the pure compound than had been formerly observed with the diluted mixtures containing large quantities of barium salts .
Professor Kutherford and Mr. Soddy have made the important discovery that a condensible emanation is diffused into gases from solutions of radium salts , which is capable of condensation from the gas mixture at the temperature of liquid air .
As it was important to ascertain what was taking place in this respect with the anhydrous radium bromide when isolated in the highest vacuum , the following experiment was arranged:\#151 ; A glass apparatus of the shape represented in fig. 3 was constructed .
The part marked C is a fine capillary drawn out tube some 5 or 6 inches in length , the B portion , about 2 inches long , being filled with hard-pressed purified asbestos .
The radium salt was located at A , and the whole was most carefully heated , exhausted to the limit of the mercurial pump , and sealed off .
In the dark no trace of phosphorescence could be seen in any part of the apparatus unless from the pieces of the radium bromide .
The fine tube C was now immersed in liquid air in a large flask , so that distillation might proceed undisturbed for days .
After 24 hours of this operation , on looking at the part C while covered with the liquid air , a marked phosphorescence was recognisable owing to some condensed emanation .
The luminosity became naturally more marked the longer the time the action was allowed to proceed , and it is our intention to continue the experiments for a lengthened period of time , and then seal off the fine capillary part so that the condensed product may be thoroughly examined .
Fig. 3 .

