[ 2G9 ] VIII .
Onygena equina , Willd .
, a Horn-destroying Fungus .
* By H. Marshall Ward , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Botany the University of Cambridge .
Received April 6 , \#151 ; Read May 5 , 1899 .
[ Plates 21-24 .
] Some time ago Mr. Crossland , a student in this laboratory , brought me a cow 's horn much decomposed , and covered with a fine growth of a fungus\#151 ; Onygena .
The specimen had been found lying on the wet grass on a hill in Derbyshire .
The decomposing horn evolved a strong odour of ammonia , and its outer parts flaked off easily as cheesy , skin-like , or almost papery , opaque , white bits , the handling of which left a penetrating ammoniacal odour on the fingers , reminding one of the smell of peptone which has been kept in too damp a place .
A glass rod dipped in HC1 , and held near the horn , was at once surrounded by a white cloud .
Underlying the ammoniacal odour , however , there seemed to me to he another and more persistent sour smell .
Since very little is known of this fungus , I have made a thorough examination of it .
The remarkable genus Onygena comprises some half-dozen species of fungi of peculiar habitat , since they all# grow on animal bodies , such as hoofs , horns , feathers , hairs , and skins , and thus present characteristics shared by very few other true fungi , e.g. , the Laboulbeniacese , and the genus among the Hypocreaceae , both of which grow on insects .
Berkeley !
found one species of Onygena on a piece of old flannel in Sherwood Forest , and remarks , " which had probably formed part of the dress of some gipsy .
" The little that is known of certain epidermal parasites on human hair and skin , shows they are quite different fungi .
The older mycologists entertained various ideas as to the systematic position of the genus Onygena .
PersoonJ placed it with the Myxomycetes Licea and Tubidina , evidently laying stress on the loose powdery spores , though he failed to recognise the capillitium-like threads in the fructifications ; hut since he placed these fungi between Mucor and sFcidium , we need hardly enter further into the discussion of his views .
* The Onygena faginen of Fries was Pilacre fagin(B .
and Br .
) and not an Ascomycete at all .
t ' Introd .
to Crypt .
Bot. , ' p. 272 , 1857 .
\ 'Syn .
Fung .
, ' pp. 15 and 203 .
10,10.99 Withering* and others corrected Persoon 's error in denying the existence of barren filaments { capillitium)between the spores of the ripe fructification , but none of these authors really understood the true nature of these filaments .
Albertini and Schweinitz , f who seem to have quite apprehended the weakness of the alliance between Onygena and the Myxomycetes , made some advance in placing the former near Lycoperdon and Tulostoma , and although Bolton , Willdenow , Withering , and subsequently Persoon himself accepted similar views , while Frtes| varied the systematic position by associating Onygena with Tulostoma , Lycoperdon , and Polysaccum into one group , the genus was by no means understood .
In 1844 S the Tulasnes showed that the spores are developed in asci " d la des spores des Tubereesdes Erysiphe , " and pointed out that the whole nature of the fructification differs from that of the Myxomycetes and of the Lycoperdineae , and this was the first time that any approach to a real comprehension of the systematic position of the genus was possible .
But although the Tulasnes brought Onygena || into its proper group\#151 ; the Ascomycetes\#151 ; very little progress has been made since , and the bibliography is correspondingly scanty .
Even I)e Bary in 1884 was unable to add much to these results .
He points outH that the early stages of development of the fructification are too little known to enable us to trace their homologies , and they can only be called " sporocarps " in the sense employed for the rest of the Ascomycetes , because they contain asci , and present certain resemblances to the fructifications of these fungi .
His account of the structure** is essentially that of Tulasne .
From the mycelium arise a number of small solid columns , each surmounted by a globoid receptacle full of spores ; these are the pedicellate sporocarps .
The spore-case proper ( p ) contains a brown powdery mass of spores and intermingled hyphse ( capillitium ) , and was known as the gleba .
All these terms\#151 ; peridium , gleba , capillitium , \amp ; c.\#151 ; derived in the first place from supposed analogies with Gasteromycetes , have as a rule been upheld by subsequent writers .
Nothing was known definitely as to the germination of the spores or the early stages in any species of Onygena when I began this work .
Moreover , very little information about this fungus can be obtained from the usual sources .
The name of the genus does not occur in Von Tavel ; ft it only occurs in two notes of one line each in ZoPF , fl ; one referring to the fructification of Onygena as an example of a negatively geotropic organ , and the other mentioning the curious habitat of the fungus .
* ' Bot. Arrang .
of Brit. Plants , ' 3rd ed. , vol. iv .
, p. 378 .
f ' Conspect .
Fung .
Agri .
Nisk .
, ' p. 113 .
J 'Syst .
Mycol .
, ' p. 51 .
S ' Ann. des Sc. Not .
, ' Ser. III .
, Bot. , vol. 1 , pp. 367-372 .
With plate and literature .
|| They were unable to study living specimens of 0 .
equina , loc. cit. , p. 370 .
U ' Morph , and Biol , of Fungi , ' Engl , ed. , p. 193 .
** Loc .
cit. , p. 196 .
ft ' Yergl .
Morph , d. Pilze , ' 1892 .
jj ' Die Pilze , ' 1890 , pp. 208 and 227 .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WIELD .
Ludwig , # to whom I often turn for curious notes on biology , does not even name the genus .
Nor is it mentioned in Masses 's ' British Fungus Flora , 'f although he gives the Gymnoasceae , near which Onygenei are usually placed .
All this goes to show that our knowledge of this genus of fungi is meagre and incomplete , and points to the desirability of its exact study .
I have also been able to discover very few references to the physiology of the genus Zopf| says the sporangiophores of Onygena corvina are negatively geotropic , but the remark seems to imply no more than the simple observation that they stand erect on the substratum .
But De Bary adds a significant observation^ which may be taken regarding the conditions of germination in 0 .
corvina .
The spores refused to grow in water or in nutrient solutions , or in gastric juice , at any temperatures , " but there was a fine formation of compound sporophores of Onyge on the hairs cast up by a white owl ... ... which had received the spores of the fungus with a mouse which it had eaten ; the fungus developed on the hair from the mouse on which the spores had been strewed and from no other .
" As will be shown later , I have had better success in this connection .
The most recent work on the systematic position of , that of Fischer , || places it among the Ascomycetes in the Order Plectascineae , together with the Gymnoasceae , Aspergilleae , Elaphomyceteae , \amp ; c. The habitat and habit , the thin peridium and its peculiar dehiscence , the irregularly scattered and jointed asci with eight spores , which are one-celled , and the absence of conidia , are the principal group characters .
The genus characters are given as follows :\#151 ; Fructification rounded , usually nearly globular , stalked or sessile , and about 1-5 millims. in diameter ; clothed with a pseudoparenchymatous or membranous peridium , dehiscing at maturity by an annular rupture , or breaking up irregularly or into lobes .
The internal mass ( gleba of earlier writers ) composed of filamentous hyphae ( capillitiumof earlier writers ) and densely crowded asci .
Asci more or less irregularly globoid , 8-spored .
Spores 1-celled , smooth or sculptured , lying without order in the ascus , and filling the peridium , when ripe , as a powdery and mostly brown mass , often intermixed with capillitium The six species known occur in Middle and North Europe , Italy , France , and N. America , and are distributed into two sub-groups , four of them having the typical stalked fructification and smooth spores , forming the first group , while 0 .
* * * S * 'Lehrbuch der niederen Kryptogamen , ' 1892 .
t London , 1895 .
| ' Die Pilze , ' Breslau , 1890 , p. 208 .
S Loc .
cit. , p. 351 .
|| Engler and Prantl , ' Pflanzenfamilien , ' Th. i. , Abth .
1 , p. 309 .
( Fuckel ) and 0 .
muto.ta ( Quelet ) have sculptured spores and sessile fructifications , and approach the Aspergillacese .
Of the typical species , O. equina ( Willd .
) Pers .
has the fructification globular or depressed , with the pedicel approximately of equal thickness throughout .
Peridium whitish , or pale to reddish-brown .
Spore-mass with well-marked capillitium .
Asci 14-22 fi long by 10-14 / r broad ; spores 7-9 X 4-5 yellowish .
It occurs on decomposing hoofs and horns of cattle , sheep , horses , \amp ; c. 0 .
corvina ( Alb .
and Schw .
) , including 0 .
( Fr. ) , has longer stalks tapering above , and hardly any trace of capillitium ; smaller asci ( 8-10 X 7-8 p. ) and spores ( 5-8 X 2-3 p ) , and occurs on feathers , fur , and wool .
O. arietina(Fischer ) has a hollow stalk , an annular furrow at the base of the peridium , and was found at Davos on the horn of a living ram ; since the specimen was too old to discover the asci , this species is doubtful .
There can be no doubt as to the identity of my specimens with 0 .
, and I now proceed to the results of my own investigation .
In describing the anatomy and histology of the fungus , it will be convenient to refer to the following parts:\#151 ; ( 1 ) the vegetative mycelium running on and in the horn ; ( 2 ) the pedicel of the fructification ; ( 3 ) the globoid sporocarp , consisting of the " peridium " and the " gleba , " as we may still term them for purposes of description ; and ( 4 ) the spores .
The material for detailed work was hardened in Path 's solution* for a few hours , and passed through the dilute alcohols to absolute alcohol ; then placed successively in xylol-alcohol , xylol , xylol-paraffin , and finally into blocks of paraffin of M.P. = 60 ' C. The sections were cut with a microtome and mounted as usual .
In other cases dilute Fleming 's solution or Reiser 's mercuric chloride solution were employed .
Various stains were used , but it was not always necessary to stain at all , since the dark colour caused by the osmic acid of the Path 's solution often suffices to pick out details , except in special cases .
For certain purposes\#151 ; for instance , when dissecting out the ascigerous branches\#151 ; I found it better to isolate the sections , and swell them in Eau de Javelle , or dilute potassium hydrate and mount in glycerine .
The vegetative mycelium is composed of copiously-branched and septate hyphse , which have rounded tips and are about 3-5 / / , in thickness .
As observed fresh , and growing in one of the food-media mentioned on pp. 276 and 277 , the vigorous hyphse appear homogeneous and glistening , especially at the tips , and the septa are hardly discernible ; but in preserved mycelia each hypha is found to have firm cell-walls and septa , and contents which vary considerably in quantity and degrees of granularity .
Sections cut in the plane of the scaly structure of the cow 's horn\#151 ; i.e. , tangential * See Oltmann , ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1898 , h. 6-8 , p. 100 ; and ZiMMERMANN , ' Zellkern , ' p. 3 .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLD .
to the surface\#151 ; show the mycelium as a dense plexus of branched and anastomosing hyphse , with numerous septa and large drops or granules deeply stained by osmic acid in preparations from Bath 's fluid ( figs. 11-13 ) .
No signs of cellulose reaction could be obtained with the cell-walls , and there can be little or no doubt that chit in is the principal constituent of the hyphal membranes , though the conclusive reactions for this were obtained from aerial parts , as will be shown later .
No clamp-connections " or other characteristic marks could be discovered on the vegetative hyphse , nor were any pits observed in the septa .
Definite nuclei appear to be absent from these hyphse , their only representatives being certain extremely minute stainable granules .
The drier parts of the fully or nearly decomposed horn present a remarkable appearance of laminated , thin , pure white films , which separate like plates of mica into finer and finer sheets like paper .
The fresh films are marked with delicate vertical straight lines , like fluting , and under the microscope they are seen to be areolated into yet smaller and thinner plates , finely punctate , and probably representing the ultimate plates of horn .
Hot water has no appreciable effect on this papery substance , but it swells up in potassium hydrate , without dissolving .
Dilute sulphuric acid brings about a rapid swelling and complete solution , especially on heating , the swelling pieces turning yellow ; the solution is perfectly clear , and rapidly turns purplish-pink to brown-pink .
Acetic acid , even hot , only causes very slight swelling ; ammonia hardly affects it .
Nitric acid causes rapid swelling and disintegration into smaller scales , which then swell further and dissolve , turning canary-yellow as they do so .
Ammonia causes this yellow to deepen in hue .
Hydrochloric acid , diluted to 50 per cent. , does not swell or dissolve the scales , even on heating .
The papery films stain deeply in all ordinary dyes\#151 ; fuchsin , methylene blue , gentian violet , \amp ; c.\#151 ; and retain them tenaciously .
Microscopic examination shows the fungus hyphae running all over between even the thinnest scales , and the outlines of areolae , which I think must be the ultimate scales , are visible .
I made many attempts to bring out any evidence of the presence of bacteria in these films , but it seems certain that none are present in the areas occupied by the hyphae , and it must be concluded that the mycelium does its work of disintegration unaided by bacteria .
It is true I found rodlets once or twice here and there in the badly decomposed cheesy parts at the edges of the destroyed horn , but there was no constant relation between their presence and the degree of destruction , nor could I trace any connection between their appearance and that of the fungus .
No doubt was left in my mind that what bacteria do occur , follow on the ravages of the fungus , and quite accidentally .
Moreover I was unable to get any definite signs of activity on sterilised VOL. OX Cl.\#151 ; P\gt ; .
horn shavings and plates of these bacteria .
It is , however , to be noted that there is a decomposition of horn\#151 ; I know it in connection with the decomposition of hoofs\#151 ; in which bacteria alone appear to be concerned , but that raises a different question which I do not propose to consider here .
The point for the moment is that no symbiosis between any bacterium and the exists ; the fungus carries on its destruction alone , and I see no reason for doubting that this fungus may alone be sufficient to account for the ammoniacal decomposition of hair , horn , and hoof shavings employed for manure in the hop fields and elsewhere .
Obviously , also , the results have their bearings on questions of the destruction of human hair , skin , \amp ; c. , under the action of epidermal parasites .
The question as to the constitution of the cell-walls of the hyphse was attacked in connection with the sporophores , and especially the pedicels , because the mycelium in the horn might give equivocal results owing to the presence of keratin and its derivatives , or other bodies which would affect the reactiofis .
Vertical sections of the sporophores were placed in sealed tubes in 80 per cent , potassium hydrate , and heated to 160 ' C. for two hours ; on removing these sections to 90 per cent , alcohol , even the thinnest remained well together\#151 ; they must not be put into water , as they then swell up and disintegrate .
On now testing with iodine solution and dilute sulphuric acid the characteristic plum-pink reaction of chitin* was very marked in hyphse and spores alike .
The mature sporophore ( Plate 21 , figs. 1-4 ) is shaped like a miniature " button mushroom , " or a drumstick with a very short and relatively stout handle .
The dimensions vary considerably , but are usually between the following Total height of sporophore .
Diameter of head . .
Length of pedicel .
Thickness of pedicel .
5-8 millims. 2-4 " 4-6 " 1-2 " Vertical sections show the pedicel to be a compact and solid mass of interwoven hyphse , with a mainly upward course , and showing no special differentiations into thick and thin , inner and outer , or empty and full hyphse .
They appear to be all alike ( figs. 5 , 6 , and 10 ) .
Just below the head , however , the hyphse are compacted into a very dense layer ( figs. 3 , 4 , and 10 ) , which stretches horizontally and forms a sort of floor to the spore-case ( head ) , and reminds one of a sort of hymenium , or a sub-hymenial layer .
This compact floor is often arched up slightly into the spore-case , and is evidently the columella referred to by Fischer ; t it has no significance , 1 believe , in any such connection , but it is continuous at the margins into the peridium ( fig. 4 ) .
The latter ( figs. 7 and 8 ) is a compact pseudoparenchyma , ending * See WlSSELlNGH , in 'Pringsh .
Jahrb .
f. Wiss .
Bot. , ' vol. 189 , p. 609 .
t Fischer , loc. cit. , p. 103 .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLI ) .
externally in ragged remnants of cell-walls , and passing internally into the ordinary hyphse of the " capillitium .
" The further inter-relations of these parts will be made clearer when I have described the development .
When the fresh ripe sporophore is cut vertically , the yellowish-brown spores ( gleba ) are seen filling up the cavity between the peridium and the pedicel as a compact dark mass , which at first appears homogeneous ( fig. 2c ) .
Closer examination shows that the spores are entangled in irregular meshes between a system of hyphal strands\#151 ; now practically empty\#151 ; which run principally , but not only , upwards and downwards from the floor to the roof of the spore-cavity , and are linked by cross-connections in various ways ( figs. 8-10 ) .
These hyphal strands constitute the " capillitium , " and if we v^ash out the spores from the interstices between them , they are found to form a pretty regular system of branching strands running vertically from the floor , and branching in a fountain-like manner ( but with numerous cross-connections ) till they end in the peripheral peridium , the compacted cells of which are , indeed , merely their swollen and fused ends which have undergone cell-divisions in all planes ( figs. 7 and 8 ) .
At maturity the peridium bursts , either irregularly or by separating in a more or less circum-scissile manner from the junction below with the floor of the spore-case ( fig. 2c ) .
The spores , lying quite loose as a dry powder in the meshes of the now withering capillitium , are slowly scattered , and hitherto no one has explained their further fate or behaviour .
Most of the above bare facts of the coarser anatomy , \amp ; c. , are known , but it was necessary to verify them , as I have done , in order to make clear what follows .
A point of great interest concerns the asci .
It can afford no surprise that these should have been so long overlooked .
As I have shown , the ripe spores lie quite loose , as a powder , in the meshes of the capillitium ( fig. 10 ) , and even careful examination may fail to reveal an ascus in the ripe sporocarp .
Indeed , for a long time I was driven to suspect that , after all , the spores are developed in some other way , and only a thorough investigation of the development of the sporocarps and spores led to success in clearing up this difficult point .
Before proceeding to describe the development , however , I propose to give the results of my cultures of these spores .
As already stated , no one had as yet succeeded in persuading the spores to germinate .
On the basis of the foregoing knowledge I proceeded with attempts to germinate the spores , easily obtained in abundance and quite ripe .
A sporocarp was crushed by a sterile needle in water , and the yellow-brown " gleba " rubbed and shaken until a drop of the water showed the spores were well distributed .
A tube of yeast-extract , saccharose , and gelatine was then thoroughly infected , and hanging drop cultures made as usual.# No traces of germination could be obtained in this medium , however , though I usually find it a very satisfactory one * See Marshall Ward , 'Phil .
Trans. ' B. , 1892 , p. 130 , for details of methods .
for fungi .
Bearing in mind De Bary 's remarks , quoted above , and the following-observation of Eidam 's , I tried this medium neutral , acidified with acetic acid , and rendered alkaline with ammonia , but without success .
Eidam# found the germination of the spores of Gyrtmoascuswas promoted by the addition of acetic acid , but not by ammonia .
This fact is significant , because the allied genus is found growing on feathers , though its spores germinate readily in dung .
The medium referred to was chosen because it was at hand , and I often find it useful , as said .
Having regard to the natural substratum , I next tried gelatine and glue made up in various ways without sugar , arguing from the fact that glue-like bodies are obtainable from hoofs , skins , horn , \amp ; c. The first trials were made with glue and tap-water ; glue , gelatine and tap-water ; glue and various mineral solutions ; gelatine and mineral solutions ; but in no case could I get the spores to germinate either at ordinary temperatures or at 25 ' and 35 ' C. in the incubator .
After many failures the idea occurred to try whether attempts with artificial gastric juice could be made to succeed , for although De Bary had failed with extract of pig 's stomach , his note on the growth of Onygenci on the owl 's cast suggests that some connection between digestion and germination of these obstinate spores may , nevertheless , exist .
The results proved that this is the case .
A solution was made as follows:\#151 ; 200 milligs .
of pure artificially prepared pepsin were dissolved in 100 cub. centims. of water , and 100 cub. centims. of a 0'4 per cent , solution of hydrochloric acid added .
Spores were then sown\#151 ; in tubes and in hanging drops\#151 ; in this raw gastric juice ; in the same diluted ; and in the same to which various decoctions of glue , gelatine , and other presumed food-materials were added .
Further trials were made , in which either the spores alone , or the food medium alone , were exposed to the action of the gastric juice .
Moreover , the experiments were varied as to temperature , dilution , length of digestion , and other treatment of the spores .
It soon became evident that the gastric juice an efficient agent , and De Bary 's failure with extract of pig 's stomach must be put down to some accessory circumstance .
The first success was with spores shaken up in water , to which the gastric juice was then added .
In hanging drops at 23 ' C. , some of the spores were found to be putting forth germ tubes on the fourth day , and the process was well advanced on the fifth day ( fig. 36 ) , but no further progress was made .
Similar success attended sowings in glue-solutiont to which gastric juice was added , the treatment in other respects being exactly the same .
Similar cultures at 36 ' C. gave negative results .
In both these series there are reasons for believing that the prolonged action of the gastric juice eventually stopped * Cohn 's 'Beitrage , ' vol. 3 , 1880 , p. 296 .
t Made up as follows:\#151 ; Glue , 10 grams ; tap water , 500 cub. centims. ; Liebig 's meat extract , 1 gram ; peptone , 1 gram .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLI ) .
the growth , since I had added a large proportion\#151 ; about 50 per cent.\#151 ; to the cultures .
Further experience also suggests that in the first series the partially digested remains of some of the spores served the others as food for a time .
In the second series it is probable that the products of digestion of the glue and Liebig 's extract inhibited the further development .
No success attended sowing of spores digested for four hours at 35 ' C. in the gastric juice , and then sown in bouillon-pasteur , or levulose yeast-extract ; but this may have been in part owing to the rapidity with which these liquids turned foul owing to introduced bacteria and yeasts , \amp ; c. , with the spores from the horn .
Spores kept for twenty-four hours in gastric juice at 36 ' C. and then dried on sterile cover-slips for twenty-four hours , failed to germinate in glue-gelatine broth\#151 ; both with and without the further addition of yeast-extract-levulose , or of gastric juice\#151 ; at 20'-25 ' C. , whence may no doubt be inferred that the digestion was carried too far , as I found similar failures occurred later , in far better food-media , when the spores had received such drastic exposure to the action of the gastric juice .
Since the mycelial growths obtained in the above experiments were soon arrested , the idea occurred to try the effect of freezing the spores , in order to see whether more vigorous germination could be obtained .
The idea was suggested by Eriksson 's success with the artificial freezing of the spores of Fresh heads of the Onygena , containing ripe spores , were exposed from January 27 to February 3 in a glass vessel outside , and experienced a fairly sharp frost during the first night .
The following experiments with these frozen spores are instructive .
In mixed glue-gelatine-broth and horn-extract some of the frozen spores , previously soaked for two hours in water only at 35 ' C. , germinated in three days , but got no further than the emission of germ-tubes some two or three times the length of the spore .
When the frozen spores were digested for two hours at 35 ' C. in the artificial gastric juice , however , they germinated much more strongly in the glue-gelatine-broth alone in the same period ; the cultures being side by side and absolutely alike in other respects .
It seems noteworthy that this was the only experiment in which I obtained positive results with the ascospores without the use of gastric juice .
At the time I thought it showed that freezing caused some change in the spores\#151 ; perhaps the secretion of pepsin\#151 ; which enables them to dispense with the gastric juice so far as preliminary germination is concerned ; but another explanation seems possible .
In later experiments , when I had become familiar with the second form of spores\#151 ; chlamydospores\#151 ; to be described below , it occurred not unfrequently that in sowings containing both kinds of spore , the chlamydospores germinated out under conditions unfavourable to the ascospores .
Since there was some danger of confounding the two kinds when germinated , until I had become more familiar with their peculiarities , it is just possible that in the case described 1 had done this , and that the successful germination without gastric juice was really that of the chlamydospores .
Unfortunately the point must remain obscure for the present .
* Eriksson , 'Centralbl .
f. Bact./ Abt .
2 , 1895 , vol. 1 , Nos. 15 , 16 .
Since the glue I was using* did not appear to give very strong mycelia , I tried to extract a solution from the horn itself , to see if something still nearer the natural food of the fungus could he obtained .
Various methods were employed , e.\lt ; j.y simply boiling the horn shavings in water , extraction in an autoclave , and , subsequently , a solution of the horn in boiling dilute sulphuric acid neutralised with barium carbonate .
I also obtained from a glue factory the first coarse glue extracted from the hoofs , horn , \amp ; c. , as well as some of the crude materials\#151 ; mixed skin , hoof , \amp ; c.\#151 ; from which the glue is prepared .
The best results were obtained with the raw coarse glue referred to above .
In this medium , to which a few drops of gastric juice were added , the spores germinated freely and strongly in two days at 22 ' C. , and in tubes I was able to obtain large mycelia in the course of a few days .
So far it appears to be the best medium for the culture of the spores ( fig. 33 ) .
Talking over the question of the constitution of horn , of which very little appears to be known , Dr. Buhemann suggested glucose-amine , a body obtainable from chitin , as a possibly suitable food-stuff for such a fungus , although glucose-amine is not got from horn .
I obtained some pure glucose-amine from Grubler and made it up in various ways .
Positive results were obtained when it was mixed with gelatine and mineral solution , provided the spores were added in gastric juice .
But the germination was the slowest of any , and did not occur until the 8th to 10th , or even the 14th day , and often ran an abnormal course .
I could only infer that it had an inhibiting effect rather than a stimulating one\#151 ; the positive result being probably due to the products of digestion of the gelatine ( see fig. 35 ) .
Having obtained satisfactory evidence that the spores are rendered capable of germination by the action of gastric juice , and that they therefore no doubt pass through the body of the cow in nature , it was obviously desirable to test the effect of an extract of cow-dung on the growth of the mycelium .
Filtered and boiled watery extract of the dung added to gelatine proved a very good medium , and strong mycelia were obtained in the hanging drops , but again , only if gastric juice was also used .
Neither freezing nor soaking the spores in water brought about the germination in the extract alone , or with gelatine , or with horn-extract or glue .
The slow progress of the specimen figured ( fig. 34 ) , is due to the low temperature , 16-18 ' C. , at which the germination occurred in this case .
The much better growth at 23 ' C. in this medium is sufficiently clear from fig. 37 , which shows the mycelium on the 7th day .
In all these germinations the gradual disappearance of the oily drops , presumably food supply , are observable from day to day ( see figs. 33 , 34 ) .
The foregoing experiments seem to establish the following facts :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The ascospores are incapable of germination in any of the media employed without previous treatment .
* It was a " fine " glue , and I am told that these pale-coloured glues are treated with antiseptics and otherwise .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WIELD .
( 2 .
) Their germination is promoted by treatment with gastric juice , either by mixing the latter with the food materials , or , even better , by subjecting the spores to a preliminary digestion for 2-4 hours at 35 ' C. ( 3 .
) In one doubtful case the spores appeared to germinate , without gastric juice , after a preliminary freezing .
( 4 .
) The optimum conditions of temperature are near 22 ' C. , though germination occurs at 16-18 ' C. and up to 25 ' C. In no case could I get germination at 34-36 ' C. ( 5 .
) Too long a digestion is fatal to the germination .
( 6 .
) There are some still unexplored problems regarding the nature of the food materials required .
Coarse , crude glue is the best so far ; cow-dung and glue or gelatine are also good .
Glucose-amine is not a favourable medium .
Ordinary carbohydrates , so necessary for most higher fungi , appear to be unnecessary for It remains to say a few words regarding negative results in media which one would have expected to be suitable .
In several cases where I used horn-extract , glue , gelatine , \amp ; c. , even ' with gastric juice , the hanging drops dried up too much , and the concentrated medium deposited crystals of various sorts .
That this over-concentration retards germination was proved by the behaviour in parallel cultures , where condensation of moisture on the cover-slips promoted the swelling and dilution of the drops , and germination then proceeded normally .
This occurred several times , and 1 have confidence in the explanation , which , moreover , is in accordance with the fact that in nature the fungus can hardly obtain other than very dilute solutions from the horn .
The methods employed in studying the rate of growth were the same as 1 have previously described when measuring the rates of growth of Bacillus ramosus* and the reader may be referred to that description for details .
The following may serve as an example , showing the rate of growth of a germinal tube and hypha developed from the spore :\#151 ; A spore sown on March 24 at 21 ' C. in raw glue and gastric juice , had begun to germinate on the 26th .
The following table gives the measurements :\#151 ; Spore sown March 24 at 21 ' 0 .
Date .
Length of Hypha .
Temperature .
Remarks .
n 'c .
March 26 7 21 " 27 22 18 " 28 46 18 " 29 95 20 One small branch " 30 660 21 Abundantly branched Here we find an astonishingly rapid growth set in on the sixth day ; the drop was now large and quite liquid , and the temperature was slowly rising to near the * See Marshall Ward , ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 58 , p. 24 .
optimum .
Nevertheless , the mycelium was now much branched , and the energy of growth was being directed into the side branches .
The measurements up to March 29 are accurate , and made under a high power ; those of March 30th are only approximate , as they had to be made under a B objective , and each division of the micrometer covered 11 / x , too large a unit for accuracy when the hyphse are so long .
The irregularities in growth\#151 ; the measurements only concern the four main hyphse referred to\#151 ; are no doubt due in part to the branching , since I have often found that the forward growth of a main hypha is arrested or slowed when the energy of growth begins to affect side branches , and the hyphse a and b had formed numerous such branches on March 30 .
The following gives a typical example of the rate of growth of the chlamydospore at ordinary temperatures .
A pair of chlamydospores germinated together in coarse boiled glue and gastric juice at 21 ' C. In 48 hours each had put out a germ-tube , which I will term a and b : a = 33 p , and b = 16'5 / x long .
During the next 24 hours Chlamydospores sown March 24 at 21 ' C. Date .
Hypha a. Hypha Hypha c. !
Hypha d. Temperature .
f1 *1 8C .
March 26 . .
33 16-5 . . .
21 " 27 . .
64-5 48 18-5 17 18 " 28 . .
138 122 26 49-5 18 " 29 . .
528 396 158 204 20 , , 30 880 1000 550 440 21 each had put forth another germ-tube , which may be termed c and 18'5 and d = 17 [ a ; meanwhile , a had grown to 64*5 / x , and b to 48 and this although the culture was now at 18 ' C. The further behaviour of these tubes is best shown in the accompanying table .
The following is a good example of the growth of one of the lateral branches on a mycelium developed from a spore sown in raw glue and gastric juice .
The measurements were begun at 9.30 a.m. on the seventh day after sowing , the branch having just formed , and being then 6'6 fxlong .
Time .
Length .
Temperature .
Time .
Length .
Temperature .
/ \#187 ; 'C .
A* .o .
9.30 a.m. 6-6 23-0 11.50 A.M. 26-4 25-0 10.5 " 8-8 22-5 12.15 r.M. 31-9 26-0 10.45 " 143 23-5 12.35 " 37-4 .
26-5 11.15 " 220 24-5 2.0 , , 77-0 26-0 Since , in this instance , the temperature was slowly rising most of the time , the following may be compared with it .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLD .
On a mycelium in a sister-cell , treated exactly like the foregoing , and of the same age , a side branch was fixed at 2.25 p.m. and then measured 92'4 p. Its growth was as follows :\#151 ; Time .
Length .
Temperature .
Time .
Length .
Temperature .
2.25 P.M. n 92-4 'c .
24-5 7.20 p.m. 149-6 'C .
22-5 2.40 \gt ; \gt ; 96-8 24-5 7.45 " 154-0 22-5 3.0 5 5 101-2 24-5 8.10 " 158-4 23-5 3.45 5 ) 110-0 24-75 8.40 " 162-8 24-0 4.0 ?
) 114-4 24-8 9.10 " 167-2 24-5 4.20 )\gt ; 118-8 25-0 9.30 " 171-6 25-5 4.50 \gt ; 5 124-3 24-5 9.35 A.M. 281-6 23-0 5.10 J ) 129-8 24-25 2.0 P.M. 330-0 23-0 5.30 \gt ; 5 133-0 24-5 4.0 " 352-0 21-5 6.0 \gt ; ) 137-4 24-0 5.30 " 365-0 1 22-5 It must be remembered that in these cases the growth is not intercalary along the whole filament , but apical , i.e. , when a septum has been formed , the part behind ceases to elongate , and only the lion-septate part in front goes on growing in length .
It is necessary to bear this in mind when comparing the growth-curves of this fungus with those of a bacillus , such as B. retmoms.* The curve is similar in shape in both cases , but far less steep in the case of the fungus , and of course there is no point in reckoning the doubling periods in the latter .
The growth of Onygena seems to be relatively slow , but there is evidence to show that it quickens up as the drops become more diffluent and absorb water .
This does not appear to be merely due to the temperature , but to a series of events in which , no doubt , freer access of oxygen , as well as increased digestive power on the part of the increasing mycelial surface , both play their parts .
So far the cultures only yielded such mycelia as could find space in the hanging drops , and these , of course , were soon exhausted .
In the case of the most robust growths , I found a tendency to the rapid development of more or less tufted branches ( figs. 38 and 39 ) towards the latter days of the growth , but this was the nearest approach to the formation of sporophores I was able to induce in these microscopic cultures .
It was necessary to transfer the minute cultures to a larger supply of food material .
Mycelia , already well developed in glue solution and gastric juice , grew for a short time when transferred to slope tubes of glue-gelatine-broth , but the cultures were-in most cases rapidly suppressed ( at 16-18 ' C. ) by overgrowing bacteria .
Nor was I successful with similar transferences of the mycelia from glue and gastric juice to pieces of hoof , raw or boiled , and with or without gastric juice .
A number of attempts were made with the following arrangement :\#151 ; A piece of thin horn shaving was stretched flat along a thin strip of glass , turned over its ends , * See Marshall Ward , ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 58 , p. 38 .
2 o VOL. CXOI.\#151 ; B. and clamped there by a piece of split cork .
This culture strip was then put into a test-tube with cotton-wool below and the same as a plug , and sterilised with water ( see fig. 1 ) .
Spores or transplanted mycelium could then be placed on the damp sterile horn strip ( E in figure ) with or without food materials , gastric juice , \amp ; c. Fig. 1 .
A = cotton wool .
B = glass-slip .
C = thin shaving of horn , clipped on to glass-slip at ends by D pieces of cork .
E = sowing of fungus .
In several cases this method has already led to results which show that the horn can be directly attacked by the hyphse , if previously invigorated by digestion .
Spores placed with a drop of hydrolised horn and gastric juice on such a shaving , on March 27 , had germinated successfully by April 4 , and put forth tubes 15-20 times as long as the spores .
Still more successful were experiments where I transferred strong mycelia , grown in hanging drops of suitable media .
Thus , a mycelium a week old , grown from spores in raw glue and gastric juice , was transferred to the horn shaving on March 30 , and a drop of cow-dung extract with gelatine and hydrolised horn added to start renewal of its growth .
On April 4 the hyphae had penetrated the horn , making their way in between the scales , and growing between them in an area as much as 8-10 millims. across .
Still more instructive was the following case :\#151 ; Chlamydospores were sown in a hanging drop of coarse glue and gastric juice on March 24 , and had formed a vigorous mycelium by March 30 .
This was transferred to a horn shaving on that day , and on April 4 had formed a patch 10-12 millims. in diameter , and some of the hyphse had penetrated right through the horn shaving , as well as spread into its substance ( fig. 41 ) .
Moreover , the superficial hyphse had formed numerous chlamydospores ( fig. 40 ) , just as in the hanging drops described on p. 286.# On comparing the results of the various experiments , it becomes more and more evident that the germination is faster , better , and leads to stronger mycelia the nearer the food material approaches the probable constitution of hydrolised horn , and every- * During the summer two of these cultures have developed young sporophores on the horn shaving , attaining the stage shown in fig. 5 , so that I have now the life-history complete on horn.\#151 ; [ Note added August 21 , 1899 .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLD .
thing seems to point to the products of such hydrolysis as the favourite food substances of the fungus .
I therefore instituted a series of experiments to see if I could get any nearer to the bottom of the matter .
Very little appears to be known of the nature of horn .
It contains a body known as keratin , which yields sulphuretted hydrogen on hydrolysis with water at high temperature , and it is dissolved on boiling with acids or alkalies , yielding leucin , tyrosin and some aspartic acids , with other as yet unknown products .
I began by dissolving horn chips in boiling dilute sulphuric acid .
In this the horn rapidly softened , swelled and partially dissolved , while a penetrating , pungent odour escaped .
The strongly acid liquor was then neutralised with barium carbonate , and when filtered yielded a bright yellow liquid , almost devoid of smell .
This did not set on standing , but when a few drops were dried on glass , a tough membrane-like mass remained behind , easily soluble again in hot water .
I then proceeded on the assumption that this liquid might contain the nutrient food of the fungus\#151 ; though , of course , it is as likely , or even more so , that it rather contains products such as the mycelium would itself cause to be formed as it extracted nutriment from the horn .
Still there was the possibility that since I had stopped the hydrolysis long before all the horn was dissolved , the liquid contained in solution just those bodies which the mycelium normally seeks in the horn .
The results were not encouraging .
Although some measure of success attended the sowings if gastric juice was added , the spores did not germinate nearly so well as in glue and gastric juice .
Nevertheless , in some of the experiments with horn shavings , it appeared as if this medium was of use in starting the mycelia and rendering them sufficiently vigorous to penetrate the horn .
The subject needs further investigation , and I hope to pursue it later .
It was found that if the outer parts of the decomposed cow 's horn are shaved off with a sharp razor , leaving a white surface fully impregnated with the mycelium , the latter is still capable of giving rise to new sporophores in a damp atmosphere , and did so for many weeks , and some interesting new observations were obtained by watching the development of these under a bell-jar , lined with grey filter-paper kept damp and lifted daily to allow of the escape of the carbon dioxide and ammonia .
The sporophore appears first as a scarcely perceptible upheaval of snow-white mycelium , which bursts through between the decomposing scales of horn of the substratum .
When it attains a height of about a millimetre , the dome-shaped mass assumes a peculiar glistening white appearance , as if powdered with fine snow ; and closer observation shows that its surface is dusted over with loose cells : the peculiar character of which , and the air they entangle between them , render it extremely difficult to wet the structure , and obstruct the penetration of fixing fluids in which the organs are immersed .
The loose cells behave almost as if they were greasy , and so obstinately is the air held between them , that even under a good pump it takes some time to sink the young sporophores .
2 o 2 Sections show that these dome-shaped incipient sporophores consist of densely interwoven , branched and sparsely septate , upgrowing hyphse , the abundant contents of which are very rich in stainable materials ( fig. 5 ) .
Towards the upper parts of the domed apex , these hyphse send numerous branches outwards\#151 ; perpendicularly to the periphery of the dome\#151 ; and as these approach the exterior they increase in thickness and their free ends swell and become more rapidly septate , resembling Indian clubs cut up into short segments .
The segments themselves then swell slightly into barrel-shaped portions , and some of them\#151 ; usually the alternate segments\#151 ; take up more of the hyphal contents than the others , swell up more and more , and obtain firmer walls ( figs. 14-18 ) .
The starved segments which have given up their contents contract more and more , and eventually break , letting loose the barrel-shaped joints as separate spore-like cells , each showing remnants of the torn intermediate cells at the ends ( figs. 16 and 17 ) .
Further investigation showed that these are a hitherto undiscovered and second form of reproductive spore of Onygena .
It is these separated barrel-shaped\#151 ; or , when free , egg-shaped\#151 ; cells which form the white glistening powder on the young sporophores , and their development and structural relations alone suggested that they are chlamydospores .
High powers and suitable staining show that each cell contains abundance of vacuolated protoplasm , in which a more deeply-coloured speck , apparently a nucleus , exists ( figs. 16 and 17 ) .
Although the mode of development , shape , and structure , and the separation of these cells point to their being acrogenously ahstricted like those of Oligoporus , Nyctalis , \amp ; c. , with the sporogenous hypha compacted into a sort of stroma , no attempts to get them to germinate succeeded at first .
I sowed them in all the ordinary media in vain : they seemed to share with the spores a resistance to germination which is only to be overcome by the action of special conditions .
Here , again , a clue was obtained by the success with the spores treated with gastric juice .
They germinated readily in extract of cow-dung and gelatine to which gastric juice was added , as also in similarly treated solutions of raw glue , horn-extracts , \amp ; c. , as already described for the ascospores .
The process of germination always began by the emission of a germ-tube from the lateral wall , usually just below one end , and the hypha produced differed in no essential from thS germinal hypha of the spores ( cf. figs. 19 , 20 , and 21 ) .
Further experience showed , however , that in certain solutions these chlamydospores are capable of germinating without the intervention of the gastric juice , though there could be no doubt that digestion promotes their germination considerably .
One reason for this may be that the chlamydospore , which is considerably larger than the ascospore ( 8-12 y X 5-6 y as against 6-7 X 4-5 y ) , contains a much larger stock of protoplasm and reserve contents .
As I have already entered into the question of the germination of the ascospores at some length , it will suffice to give the principal results with the chlamydospores in the following tabular form :\#151 ; PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLI ) .
\#171 ; O Ph 02 O A p a a w o co \amp ; c6 a \lt ; s ft So 4p o 2S .9 r2 CD Sh fS r ^ ^ \#169 ; Ph \#169 ; c3 r2 \#166 ; \#163 ; s o \#163 ; H \#169 ; \gt ; * 2 CD JLZ ss p S a ) 'S ^ " \#169 ; \lt ; N ^ O.SrH .Hill S ci ^ ' S 8-S s S.-S f-n S o c \gt ; \#187 ; ^ d^^ .n a -* *\gt ; s \#171 ; O c b\#163 ; *2 P 4^ \#163 ; ft \#169 ; sj w " * ' -e I ft g .a ft H H J\gt ; o K*4 r^H c8 rO co -p ip .S _g \#163 ; -S o Ilf p , L\gt ; P ^ 2 w\gt ; S*a ^"\#169 ; .43 o"o o 08 .
rH \#169 ; O a rO ftP .
rH \#163 ; r\#151 ; H I H -$M CO \#169 ; \#163 ; \gt ; e3 s 2 \amp ; \gt ; \#187 ; Eh 44\gt ; CO I\#151 ; I H \lt ; \#166 ; 3 * \#171 ; 4H r~i CO p CO 4-i S 73 +3 g | d I 3 4s JS ft .\#163 ; ^.43 \#169 ; \#169 ; J. \#163 ; IH \lt ; M H fig. 0 \#169 ; cS rJ3 bjQ73 1 If 'll 4f ^P \#169 ; ir9 .i 1 S Plh o biO S l-l 0 \#171 ; 4h c3 1 * a H CO 44 ) g \#169 ; Ph hp \#169 ; te .9 S \#169 ; b\#163 ; \#169 ; P o Hp \#163 ; Z ~ \#163 ; -g \#169 ; o 0 ) / of " bO \#169 ; Td ^\#169 ; ts -.a a \#169 ; C5 \#169 ; \#169 ; \#163 ; '"P \#169 ; P s \#169 ; o r\#151 ; H \lt ; +h " p o a 5.9 \#169 ; O o| ?
H O \#169 ; Q , Ph \#171 ; \#169 ; CO T5 O rP ^\#169 ; c8 np r ^ P c3 O ( M cS " T3 \gt ; \gt ; H 2 \#166 ; g^ | a^i .s^ 2 s-g \amp ; Hmh \#169 ; / -H .2 .15 o O , S -2 ^5 - d _3 \#169 ; r\#151 ; 1 \#169 ; _ .
\#169 ; 3 \#169 ; d ?
| \#169 ; \#169 ; \#169 ; r-j PP hO Ph JS 13 " S " \#169 ; " g d5 bS^ 0 oh oh OEhOh Q sd ab 1 eo S CO a 0 0 CO fS- b To r trH R R s R b 0 ^ ( M \lt ; M ^ r r : ^ b CO \lt ; M \#169 ; \#163 ; \#163 ; \#163 ; P S HP , rH *Sn \#169 ; CO P W rH 1 |'"b 1 ft -rt\lt ; ^ o3 \lt ; M S ) ^.a ss ^ r-( 5 ' " f1|lb \#169 ; p O Ph \#169 ; Ph .
rH -s \#169 ; * Ph aT P E5 44 ) \#169 ; .
* .3 9 s W- ' s \#169 ; \#169 ; " C ^"1\#169 ; +3 CO c8 ^ bU " \#169 ; .9 ti bio czT 44\gt ; .2 T3 CO c8 bD .15 S ^ ^3 ^ o ^ \#169 ; \#169 ; a S.S 2 rr\gt ; c8 ^ CD ^.a i 3 " \#169 ; '-p bJD c8 ^ S.s #P ^ a -s c8 c8 i bD 'be .2 T| T5 P c8 \#169 ; np .s ^ s \#169 ; P c3 S^3.2 S 03 -15 '\#169 ; ph1 qo awe \#169 ; \#163 ; s \amp ; o ^3 ft J3 .
" 1 ?
1 , t I s \#169 ; ."p np c8 .2 'S m c8 bO rP 'S ' ^ s I- .
bO hwT .
X ^ ^ \#169 ; \#187 ; TP i !
\#166 ; o^ \#163 ; ^ O O 4-3 P \#171 ; H-H \#169 ; 0 a . .
rH O \#163 ; h O CC| CO 10 rH CM co xtH co so ^ ^ u\#151 ; \#163 ; 00 ^ 00 ^ 00 ^ ca 5 aa *5F ir Ph R \#169 ; In one or two cases I have been able to induce strong growths to form chlamydo-spores in the hanging drop .
Thus , in sowings in coarse glue , boiled , to which gastric juice was added , the mycelia from the chlamydospores developed chlamydospores in chains on the eleventh day .
We have already seen that similar developments occur on vigorous my celia transferred to horn-shavings ( p. 282 , see fig. 40 ) .
I have not as yet succeeded in getting spores to do this in the hanging drops .
About the time when the chlamydospores have covered the whole upper portion of the stroma with a dense powder , the dome-shaped upper half of the fructification begins to swell and to form a globoid head ( fig. 4 ) marked off from the pedicel below by its slightly increased diameter .
Vertical sections through the whole structure at , or just prior to , this stage , show that while the chains of chlamydospores are becoming exhausted , a new set of structures\#151 ; the ascogenous hyphae\#151 ; begins to form in the interior of the hyphal mass ( fig. 4 and figs. 22-29 ) .
Before describing the details of the changes now beginning in the interior , however , I may complete the history of the hyphal weft which , as just described , gave rise to the chlamydospores .
During the later stages , the hyphae giving off the chlamydospores have become more and more densely compacted ( fig. 14 ) , and as the crop of chlamydospores ceases , are so crowded that their contiguous walls practically fuse by pressure and partial dissolution ( fig. 18 ) .
It is these compacted broader hyphal ends , in which one or two further cell-divisions occur as a final act , which now constitute the peridium ( fig. 7 ) .
The ragged torn ends on the exterior , and which give the roughness to the completed peridium , are nothing more than the remains of the separation-cells between the series of chlamydospores last formed ; and , of course , the continuation of the inner cells of the peridium into the hyphal strands ( )in the gleba is now intelligible ( figs. 7 and 18 ) .
I now return to the conditions just prior to the formation of this peridium .
Hitherto the general course of the branched and septate hyphae has been upwards and outwards , like the stream of a fountain , and this upward course is still characteristic of the slender hyphae forming the pedicel ( fig. 5 ) .
In the mass forming the interior of the head , however , a number of dense knots of very short , closely septate , coral-like branches now make their appearance ( fig. 5 ) , each knot arising by branching from one of the upward hyphae ( fig. 22 ) .
The latter are , as already described , thin and sparsely septate , and soon lose most of their contents ; but the short , knob-like branches forming these lateral knots are much thicker , and so densely filled with protoplasmic materials ( figs. 23-27 ) , which take up stains like haematoxylin in far greater quantity than any other hyphae , that they stand forth sharply in the preparations ( fig. 5 ) .
The short branches of each knot tend to curl over one towards another , reminding one of the fingers and thumb of an irregularly closed fist ( to which , indeed , they are not inaptly compared if we suppose the wrist to represent the piece attaching the knot to the upright hyphae ) , or they coil once or twice PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLD .
( figs. 25a and 255 ) , and in some cases form dense knots ( fig. 22 ) .
The horizontal outgrowth of each knot naturally forces the surrounding erect hyphse aside , and as the knots are developed in large numbers , the impression is soon formed of a series of chambers , between sinuously up-growing hyphal strands , each chamber filled with the densely crowded and closely segmented coral-like knots , the pushing out of which has formed it .
These chambers are the chambers of the gleba ( figs. 8 and 9 ) , and the coral-like knots are the tufts of sporogenous hyphae .
When the latter have reached their full development , and have formed the spores , the hyphae lining the chambers having given up all or most of their contents , and become pressed more and more closely together by the ascogenous hyphae and spores , appear like plates or strands of empty hyphae ( capillitium ) simply lining the chambers of the gleba , in which the ripe spores then lie loose ( figs. 4 and 8 ) .
The important question now arises , what intervenes between the inception of the tufts of sporogenous hyphae and the maturation of the spores ?
Do the coral-like branches , richly supplied with protoplasm , develop into asci , or are the spores formed otherwise ?
The presumption was\#151 ; judging from Tulasne 's figures and from the descriptions referred to above ( p. 270)\#151 ; that the tufts are groups of ascogenous hyphae .
But I failed for some time to find any trace of ascus-formation at all ; on the contrary , the spores appeared to be the direct result of segmentation of the short branches .
The method adopted to solve this difficult question was to cut serial microtome sections of the fructifications in every available stage of development , from the time when the tufts first appear , to that when the spores lie free and mature in the cavities of the gleba ; and since , so far as I know , no one has hitherto traced this development , the details are of interest .
It is comparatively easy to obtain the earlier stages ( e.g. , figs. 22 and 23 ) , as already described , but those between the first swelling up of the segments to form asci ( e.g. , fig. 25 ) and the fully-developed form ( fig. 29 ) offer peculiar difficulties connected with the relative rapidity of formation , the coincidence of development of all the asci in the head , and the fugacious character of the ascus walls .
Soon after the inception of the ascogenous coils , the short , barrel-shaped segments ( fig. 24 ) begin to show signs of differentiation of their contents , vacuoles appear , and in some cases a nucleus can be observed ( figs. 26 , 27 , and 28 a and b ) .
A comparison of numerous preparations shows that the stage with one nucleus is soon followed by one where two co-exist ( fig. 28c ) .
Then asci with four , and finally with eight nuclei are found ( fig. 28 dand e ) , and in slightly more advanced heads the fully formed asci , each with eight spores , may be found ( fig. 29 ) .
These rapidly burst , and let the ripening spores escape into the meshes between the capillitium ( figs. 4 , 8 , 9 , and 10 ) , and the gleba now appears as a powdery snufflike mass of the spores ( fig. 2 c ) .
Each young ascus in the stage shown in fig. 29 measures about 10 p , in diameter .
No trace of any process comparable with the sexual process in Erysiphese , or the fusions in Eurotium , \amp ; c. , could be discovered at any stage in the development .
Reviewing the whole course of development of these sporophores of Onygena , an interesting point may be suggested bearing on the often quoted parallelism between members of the two great groups of Fungi\#151 ; the Ascomycetes and the Basidiomycetes\#151 ; e.g. , between Tuberaceae and Gastromycetes , between Exoctscus and Exobasidium , \amp ; c. If we examine Brefeld 's masterly exposition of the structure and development of Pilacre , a member of the Protobasidiomycetes , it will be noticed that in habit\#151 ; not in habitat , however\#151 ; size , and other external characters , as well as in general structure , there are decided resemblances to Onygena .
Moreover , Pilacre begins by forming a clavate mass of up-growing hyphse , the outer ends of which first develop conidia and then mat together to form a ; much in the same way as in Onygena they form chlamydospores and then mat together to produce the peridium .
This done , in both cases the sporogenous branches develop in tufts from the hyphse below the peridium , and although in Pilacre these become basidia with basidiospores , whereas in Onygena they develop into asci containing ascospores , their arrangement , mode of origin , and general course of development are strikingly analogous in the two cases .
I cannot help thinking that just as Pilacre may be looked upon as a primitive form leading to the Gastromycetes through such genera as , so the foregoing results show that Onygena might be regarded as leading to the Truffles if a connecting pedicillate form of the Balsamea type were known .
It may be noted that the arrangement of the " capillitium " fibres is strikingly similar to that of the septa in Tuberacese .
It is interesting to note\#151 ; though the significance is probably historical only\#151 ; that previous observers , knowing nothing of the development or even of the asci , had already described a species of Pilacre# as an , misled no doubt by the resemblances referred to above .
Although much remains to be done before the questions raised are all solved , it seems probable that the main facts of the life-history of this curious fungus are now elucidated .
We may infer that in nature it attacks the horn , hair , hoofs , feathers , \amp ; c. , of animals and birds , and that the spores are licked off or swallowed as the feathers are preened .
During passage through the alimejitary canal , the action of the gastric juices favours germination , which probably occurs in the dung .
The germinated mycelium probably then reaches the horns , hoofs , feathers , \amp ; c. , again , in various ways \#151 ; e.g. , by the animal treading in the dung , or lying down on soiled ground , and so forth\#151 ; and so the cycle is renewed .
Possibly the reason Onygena is so rarely seen on * * Sec Cooke , ' Handbook of British Fungi , ' vol. 2 , p. 625 .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLD .
the living animal\#151 ; it does sometimes occur there*\#151 ; is that so long as the animal is vigorous , it cleans itself efficiently .
Explanation op Plates .
PLATE 21 .
Fig. 1 .
Onygena equina on a cow 's horn , showing fructifications ( sporocarps ) .
Natural size.t Fig. 2 .
Isolated sporocarps and groups of the same : a and natural size ; c , slightly magnified , and showing the rupturing peridium .
Fig. 3 .
Vertical section through a mature sporocarp under a low power .
Fig. 4 .
Similar section through upper part of a nearly ripe sporocarp , showing spores in the meshes of the gleba , peridium , layer , and pedicel .
Zeiss B , occ .
4 .
Fig. 5 .
Similar section through a much younger sporocarp before the peridium , spores , and sub-hymenial layer have been developed .
The head is covered with chlamydospores , and the dark patches in the young gleba are the tufts of ascogenous hyphae .
Zeiss C , occ .
4 .
Fig. 6 .
Small portion of a transverse section of lower part of pedicel , showing transversely cut hyphse , and three scales of horn also in section .
The two dark bodies are young spores accidentally washed into the preparation .
Zeiss D , occ .
4 .
Fig. 7 .
Portion of a vertical section of the peridium of a ripe sporocarp , showing the gradual passage of the hyphse\#151 ; \#151 ; of the gleba into pseudoparenchyma , the outer cells of which are torn and jagged .
Apochrom .
0*4 millim. , occ .
4 .
Fig. 8 .
Portion of peridium and mesh work of gleba with spores .
Zeiss C , occ , 4 .
Fig. 9 .
Part of gleba with spores in the chamber-like meshes .
Zeiss C , occ .
4 .
Fig. 10 .
Vertical section through sub-hymenial layer , showing how its closely compacted tissue passes above into the gleba and below into the looser hyphse of the pedicel .
Apo .
0'4 , occ .
2 .
Fig. 11 .
Mycelium in the horny substratum .
From a thin section cut tangentially to the surface ; the shaded patches are plates of decomposing horn .
Zeiss D , occ .
2 .
Fig. 12 .
Similar preparation , showing hyphse free from the horn , and the deeply-stained granules in the protoplasm .
Zeiss D , occ .
2 .
* * See Fischer , loc. cit. , p. 106 .
t This figure , and figs. 2-6 and 8-12 , were drawn for me by Miss Dale , to whom I here record my thanks .
VOL. CXCI.---B .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON ONYGENA EQUINA , WILLD .
Fig. 13 .
Fig. 14 .
Fig. 15 .
Fig. 16 .
Fig. 17 .
Fig. 18 .
Fig. 19 .
Fig. 20 .
Fig. 21 .
Fig. 22 .
Fig. 23 .
Fig. 24 .
Fig. 25 .
Fig. 26 .
Fig. 27 .
PLATE 22 .
Part of latter more highly magnified , showing a septum , branch , anastomosis , and the deeply-stained swollen portions .
Immersion , yy .
Portion of outer surface of a head in the stage shown in fig. 5 , in vertical section , showing the series of chlamydospores .
Apo .
0'4 , occ .
4 .
Similar preparation in potassium hydrate , and more highly magnified .
Oil immersion , -yy , occ .
4 .
Chlamydospores stained with iodine-green and fuchsin , and showing the nuclei .
Apo .
0*4 .
Chlamydospores .
The upper ones stained with haematoxylin , and showing nuclei and vacuolisation .
Oil immersion , -yg- .
Vertical section of outer parts of a sporophore , somewhat older than fig. 5 , hut younger than fig. 4 .
The crops of chlamydospores are now coming to an end , and the hyphae which formed them are becoming compacted into the pseudo-parenchyma of the peridium ( the later stage in fig. 7 ) .
Internally , these hyphae pass into those of the , in which young spores are already visible .
Apo .
0'4 , occ .
4 .
Chlamydospores germinating in boiled coarse glue + gastric juice at 20 ' C.-220 C. , after about 48 hours .
Zeiss D , occ .
4 .
The specimen marked a in last figure traced further : on March 26 , t. 21 ' C. ; b , on March 27 , t. = 18 ' C. ; on March 28 , = 21 ' C. ; on March 29 , t. = 20 ' C. ; e , on March 30 , t. = 21 ' C. The figures a to cl , under Zeiss D , occ .
4 ; e , under Zeiss A , occ .
2 .
PLATE 23 .
A group of chlamydospores , germinating in cow-dung , gelatine , and gastric juice , on the third day after sowing .
Immersion , yg .
Groups of young ascogenous tufts of hyphae , dissected out by pressure from section of sporophores in the stage shown in fig. 5 , treated with eau de Javelle and glycerine .
Immersion , yy .
Similar groups from stained preparations in balsam , showing the dense contents of the ascogenous hyphae .
Immersion , yy .
Two similar tufts , slightly older , showing the swelling of the segments .
Immersion , yy .
A still more advanced stage : the segments are now rapidly swelling up into asci .
Immersion , y-g .
Young asci .
In a , a nucleus and four vacuoles .
Immersion , yy , saffranin .
A group of young asci , two of which show a distinct nucleus .
Immersion , yy .
Fig. 28 .
Stages in the development of the ascospores in the asci .
In a and the ascus shows one nucleus ; in c , two ; in d , four ; and in ( seen from above ) eight nuclei are visible .
Immersion , Fig. 29 .
A group of three nearly ripe asci , the upper one with eight spores .
Immersion , il$ .
Fig. 30 .
Half-a-dozen ripe ascospores as they lie in the chambers of the gleba ( cf. figs. 3 and 4 ) , each showing two oily drops .
Zeiss D , occ .
4 .
Fig. 31 .
Nearly ripe spores , stained with haematoxylin , and showing nucleus-like masses in the protoplasm .
Apo .
0'4 , occ .
4 .
Fig. 32 .
Similar spores , stained with iodine-green-fuchsin , showing chromatin-like streaks .
Oil immersion , occ .
12 .
Fig. 33 .
Ascospores , germinating in raw glue and gastric juice .
, after 48 hours , t. \#151 ; 21 ' C. ; b , on 3rd day , t. \#151 ; 18 ' C. ; c , on 4th day , = 18 ' C. ; , on 4th day , t. = 20 ' C. ; e , on 5th day , = 21 ' C. a to , under Zeiss D , occ .
4 ; e , under Zeiss A , occ .
2 .
Fig. 34 .
Very slow germination of spores in cow-dung , gelatine , and gastric juice at ordinary temperatures , 16-18 ' C. 9 days after sowing , at 10.45 a. m. ; b = same day , 5.30 p.m. ; c , at 11 a.m. on the 10th day , and , at 10 p.m. ; c , at 10 A.M. on the 11th day ; f , at the same hour on 12th day ; 24 hours later .
Note the gradual consumption of the oil-like drop .
Zeiss E , occ .
4 .
PLATE 24 .
Fig. 35 .
Abnormal germination of ascospores in glucose-amine-gelatine and minerals , after treatment with gastric juice , at 23 ' C. After 10 days , the spore had germinated ( a ) and formed a curious vesicle , as if about to produce another spore , and half the germinal tube had become empty , except for a few granules , a septum dividing the two moieties , b shows the condition 24 hours later ; c , 48 hours later ; 48 hours later still , and e after yet another 48 hours .
It never became a healthy mycelium .
Fig. 36 .
Mycelium after 5 days ' germination in glue + gastric juice at 23 ' C. Zeiss D , occ .
4 .
Fig. 37 .
Similar growth in cow-dung gelatine + gastric juice , on the 7th day , at 23 ' C. Fig. 38 .
Crowded branchlets , on a 14 days ' culture , as last .
Zeiss C , occ .
4 .
Fig. 39 .
Portion of last preparation more highly magnified .
Zeiss E , occ .
4 .
Fig. 40 .
Chlamydospores formed on a mycelium with which a horn shaving was infected ( see p. 282 ) .
Zeiss D , occ .
4 .
Fig. 41 .
A piece of horn shaving artificially infected .
The hyphae have penetrated the horn , and a branch has emerged to the exterior ( see p. 282 ) .
Zeiss D , occ .
4 , 2 p 2 Pkil .
Trcoas .
B. PL .
Marshall ONYGENA P. Highley libh .
Marshall Ward ' .
Phil..Trcins .
B. Vol. 191 .
PI .
2/ 2/ .
ONYGENA P. Higkley 11th .
Marshall Ward .
PhdJrans .
BYoU91.Pb.23 .
0 NY GEN A P. HigKley ]ibn . .
M\amp ; rskodi WuroL .
' 0 NYGENA

