]\gt ; The of Light Pulse .
By B. A. HOUSTOUN , , Ph. D. , ) , Lecturer on Physical Optics in the University of Glasgow .
icated by Prof. A. Gray , F.R.S. Received October 22 , \mdash ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
In recent years , to the work of , Schuster , and others , our views as to the nature of white light have undergone a change , and it is now universally accepted that white crht consists of irregular pulses which are transformed into trains of sine vaves by their a prism .
the method of this tion is not clearly understood , as the reasoning on the subject is unfortunately somewhat general , the only concrete case well known the pulse represented Had the nature of f ) .
] pulse been better understood , there possibly never have been any talk of the " " Light Quantum\ldquo ; or unit theory of The object of this note is to call attention to a new class of expressions representing the initial form and dispersion of a pulse .
They are both simple and elegant , and one of them gives the ergy distribution required by Wien 's law for black body radiation .
They have been ested by one of Kelvin 's hydrodynamical papers .
* do not depend on the Fourier analysis and this is an , for we never know how much of the latter is subjective .
Consider the equation .
( 1 ) If we substitute , we find that the equation represents the yation of waves in a mediunr in the velocity is directly proportional to the period .
This is the law of deep.sea waves ; it is obeyed by no medium for light waves although it gives the variation with the period in the right direction .
After the necessary corrections have been made the distribution of the energy in the spectrum of an incandescent solid is independent of the prism producing the spectrum .
Results obtained therefore for a hypothetical medium the aboye can easily be transferred to any other medium .
Equation ( 1 ) can be written .
" " Initiation of Deep-Sea Waves , etc ' Proc. .
Soc. Edin 1906 , , p. 399 .
Dr. R. A. Houstoun .
This is formally the same as the equation for the one-dimensional conduction of heat , namely , Kelvin 's instantaneous-plane-source solution for the latter is By analogy , is a solution of ( 1 ) .
Disregard the plus in the index and add a constant to .
The expression still satisfies ( 1 ) and becomes .
( 2 ) Since ( 1 ) is linear , we can differentiate ( 2 ) times with to and the result , , ( 3 ) is still a solution .
To find the initial form of this solution put in ( 3 ) and then differentiate times with respect to .
The result is Write , disregard the constant factor , and this becomes We take the first part of this expression as the initial form , i.e. we choose the real part of ( 3 ) .
In .
( 1 ) the initial form of the disturbance is represented on the same scale , 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 .
FIG. 1 .
Representation of Light Pulse .
Kelvin has already ( loc. cit. ) treated the case of a deep-sea wave having the first of the aboye initial forms , and has shown how the disturbance spreads ithin a distance of a few wave-lengths from the origin .
But it is here necessary to proceed quite otherwise , since in optics observer is always at a much reater distance than this from the source .
The quantity is a constant for the .
Let fi it by ) that a harmonic wave of cm .
medinm with a velocity of cm . .
Ic has been the velocity of snch a wave is ) obtain or ttely , in sec. .
The initial disturbance is ) iven 1 ) hence its value at the is .
If be the of the point for which it has half its maximm value , , can be taken as a measure the the initial We shall examine the its -xinnum has travelled out ia distance of cm .
from the :$hall ) sulall in with 2 .
Then ill eneral is sIuall .
A for which vould .
to travel ont 2 cm .
, and ular disturbance will take he order .
While the disturbance is passing a oint 2 .
out , ] ) approxi1nately The fact that so ) things very ) only terlu to be retained .
in is easily seen to be [ t-siu ) .
VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2 I Dr. R. A. Houstoun .
Since is small compared with , we may write for for , and 1 for .
Hence , making this substitution , taking the real part and omitting the in the denominator , we obtain where .
Since is of the order of , the first term in the argument of the cosine varies very much more rapidly than the second .
Disregard the second , therefore , and we obtain finally or Acos .
( 4 ) We shall now find the manner in which the energy is distributed over the different wave-lengths for a given value of .
The at is given by ; i.e. or It thus increases as the square of the distance from the .
The in a distance is proportional to .
The change of wave-length in this distance is given by The energy per wave-length is therefore Substitute ; then the per is Wien 's law for black body radiation is stated as If is put , the two expressions .
Hence the second of our initial pulses must be of exactly the same nature as that emitted by a black body .
What is more , our symbol varies inversely as , the absolute temperature of the black body .
The unexpected simplicity of the ] ation seems to prom se well for the future of this way of regarding black body radiation .
The Representation of Light Pulse .
As a check upon the analysis we can calculate the energy in the initial pulse .
It is given in the general case by ; therefore , .
Also , .
On substitution the integral becomes If , this varies as the inverse fourth power of or the direct fourth power of T. We have thus arrived at Stefan 's law of black body radiation .
Let us now definitely make ?
and examine the shape of the pulse when its aximum has travelled 2 cm .
from the igiu .
For the maximu1n 1 which gives .
We see incidentally that the group velocity is .
Write 2 for in this expression for and substitute the result in ( 4 ) , at the same time putting .
If we omit the constant factor , 4 ) then becomes .
This expression gives the disturbance as a ulction of , and it is represented in .
To make the clear has been yiven the very value of It will be seen from fig. 2 that the initial pulse has been dispersed by the medium into a train of ways all comprised between 1 and 5 cm .
, the long waves coming first and the wave-length gradually decreasing as we get to the rear of the train .
There is , of course , a similar train travelling the other way at the same distance on the other side of the origin .
The wavelength at the point of maximum amplitude , i.e. the dominant wave-length , is obtained by combining and .
It is therefore and is always the same , i.e. the same wave-length .always rides on the crest of the group .
In the case represented in fig 2 , the The Mathematical of a Light Pulse .
dominant wave-length is cm .
, a very long heat wave .
If it were green , at that distance out there should be roughly 3500 times as many lengths in the train , but , of course , the number always increases the further the group goes .
The period of a wave iven by i.e. or Hence the wave-velocity , , is the same value as was obtained by substitution in equation ( i ) .
The dispersive power of a medium is usually specified by In our hypothetical medium the velocity varies as lihe , and the velocity for is cm . .
Consequently is not far from 1 , and it seems more reasonable to measure the dispersive power simply by , which has the value For flint glass the value and for air the value hence the dispersive power of our hypothetical medium is roughly 14 times that of flint glass and times that of air .
I am indebted to Dr. Green for gesting that Kelvin 's hydrodynamical solutions might be applied to optics ; also for showing me an original derivation of Rayleigh 's energy law by the application of group velocity .

