345 1891 .
] On Sensitisers for Rays of Low Ref Tangibility .
capacity of glass revealed by Professor J. J. Thomson 's experiments , * this is only what might be expected .
III .
" On the Bisulphite Compounds of Alizarin-blue and Coerulin as Sensitisers for Rays of Low Refrangibility .
" By George Higgs .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1891 .
The determination of the relative wave-lengths of the Fraunhofer lines , by photographing all the orders of spectra given by any particular grating , includes certain subjects which present more or less difficulty , and that of selecting or producing a dye-bath adapted to the requirements of the two or more orders comprising the subject is intimately connected with that of the choice of absorbing media .
Having been engaged for some time in investigations of this nature , I had occasion , during the summer of 1889 , to require an impression of the 2nd order , about \ 3300 , contiguous with that of the red end of the 1st order , and finding that the ordinate of an actinic curve for a plate immersed in a very dilute alcoholic ammoniacal solution of cyanin ( 1 : 30,000 ) , reduced to about one-fourth of that for an unprepared plate , I abandoned its use for this purpose .
The results appeared to be unaffected by the addition of quinine .
Subsequently , induline , coerulin , alizarin-blue , and the bisulphite compounds of the two latter were used .
When obtained in a state of sufficient purity the alizarin-blue S leaves little or nothing to be desired , for , whilst possessing , in a high degree , sensitising properties for rays throughout the region comprised between A 6200 and 8000 , it does not , like cyanin , lower the sensitiveness to the violet and ultra-violet .
The following is one of the processes I employed in the preparation of the dye-stuff in a pure state :\#151 ; To a saturated solution of sodium bisulphite in a mortar is added alizarin-blue paste .
This is disintegrated with a pestle , and poured iuto a glass vessel capable of holding an additional quantity of sodium isulphite , in all 10 parts of the paste to 20 parts of bisulphite , and another 10 parts of water .
The vessel is well stoppered , set aside in a cool place for five or six weeks , and shaken daily , but left undis-urtted during the last eight or ten days . . .
6 solution is decanted , filtered , and treated with alcohol , to precipitate the greater portion of the remaining sodium bisulphite .
^ parts of water are now added with a sufficiency of sodium chloride orm a concentrated solution .
Again set aside in an open-mouthed * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 46 .
346 On Sensitisers for Rays of Low [ I4ar jg glass jar , covered -with bibulous paper , for seven or eight days a deposition of the dye in a crystalline state , together with sulphite of calcium , will take place , which latter , owing to its insolubility in water , may be removed by filtration .
The alizarin-blue S is separated from any unaltered substance left in the original stoppered vessel by solution , and added to the brine now purified from lime salts , and once more set aside to crystallise ' the final purification being effected in a beaker containing alcohol and a small percentage of water to remove the last traces of sodium chloride , collecting the crystals on a filter-paper and drying at ordinary temperatures .
The needle-shaped crystals are of a deep-red .
Dilute solutions are of a pale sherry colour , changing , with the addition of a few drops of ammonia , to a green , which immediately gives way to magenta and every shade of purple , till oxidation is complete , when it assumes a blue colour , the absorption spectrum of which is continuous and strongest in the least refrangible end , presenting the appearance of extending into the infra-red .
Plates immersed in a solution containing 1 : 10,000 and 1 per cent , of ammonia give the most perfect results the day after preparation , but rapidly deteriorate unless kept quite dry .
With a slit ToVo inch in width , and an exposure of 40 minutes , results have been obtained in the region of Great A of the 2nd order which possess all the detail and definition usually so characteristic of the violet end .
Numerous lines are sharply depicted which were previously not known to exist .
X 8400 has been reached , giving almost equal detail.* The process for the preparation of pure ccerulin S is a slight modification of the preceding .
The results obtained , as well as the actinic curve , are almost identical .
The pure substance is almost white ; dilute solutions pass rapidly from pale yellow to a bright gieen ; a trace of ammonia produces an olive-green .
In general a solution of aurantia as an absorbent in quartz cell was used .
For several samples of paste I am indebted to the kindness of Messrs. Schott , Segner , and Co. , of Manchester , agents to the Badische Anilin- und So.da-Fabrik , Ludwigshafen , who hold the patent rights for the manufacture of alizarin-blue S. It is hoped this company may be induced to manufacture this substance free from the minute crystallisable impurities which render it unsuitable for use in investigations of such delicate nature .
# P.S. With a low sun at times screens were found unnecessary .
Colonel Waterhouse , who has also employed alizarin-blue ( ' Photographic News , ' Oct , 1889 ) , states that Schiendl and Eder failed to recognise the sensitiveness of this substance to the red , and considers that red or yellow screens are required to produce the full effect .
, * , ,

