150 On the Diurnal Barometric Maxima .
[ May 3 A solid formed of such shells and the action of outer shells upon inner ones , or vice versa .
1 40 .
Case of a solid s'hell of small finite thickness .
41 .
Of statical distribution of electricity on a conductor as produced by variation of magnetic field .
1 42 .
Of non-self-inductive systems .
II .
" On the Relations of the Diurnal Barometric Maxima to certain critical Conditions of Temperature , Cloud , and Rainfall .
" By Henry F. Blanford , F.R.S. Received March 30 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The author refers to an observation of Lamont 's that the diurnal barometric variation appears to be compounded of two distinct elements , viz. , a wave of diurnal period , which is very variable in different places , and which appears to depend on the horizontal and vertical movements of the atmosphere and changes in the distribution of its mass , and a semi-diurnal element which is remarkably constant and seems to depend more immediately on the action of the sun .
Then , referring to the theory of the semi-diurnal variation , originally put forward by Espy , and subsequently by Davies and Kreil , the author points out that the morning maximum of pressure approximately coincides with the instant when the temperature is rising most rapidly .
This is almost exactly true at Prague , Yarkand , both in winter and summer , and in the winter months at Melbourne !
At the tropical stations , Bombay , Calcutta , and Batavia , and at Melbourne in the summer , the barometric maximum follows the instant of most rapid heating by a shorter or longer interval ; and the author remarks that this may probably be attributed to the action of convection , which must accelerate the time of most rapid heating near the ground surface ; while the barometric effect , if real , must be determined by the condition of the atmosphere up to a great height .
With reference to Lamont 's demonstration of the failure of Espy 's theory , a condition is pointed out which alters the data of the problem , viz. , the resistance that must be offered to the passage of the pressure-wave through the extremely cold and highly attenuated atmospheric strata , whose existence is proved by the phenomena of luminous meteors .
With respect to the evening maximum of pressure , it is pointed out that very generally , and especially in India , and also at Melbourne , there is a strongly-marked minimum in the diurnal variation of cloud between sunset and midnight , which , on an average , as at Allahabad 1888 .
] Effect of Chlorine on a Voltaic Couple , 151 and Melbourne , coincides with the evening maximum of the barometer .
A similar coincident minimum , even more strongly marked , characterises the diurnal variation of the rainfall at Calcutta and Batavia in their respective rainy seasons .
In the author 's opinion these facts seem to point to a compression and dynamic heating of the cloudforming strata , and he points to the existence of a small irregularity in the diurnal temperature curves of Prague , Calcutta , and Batavia , which may possibly be due to such action .
It is further remarked that the evening maximum about coincides with the time when the evening fall of temperature , after a rapid reduction between 6 or 7 and 10 p.m. , becomes nearly uniform in rate , and it is suggested that the former may possibly be determined by the check of the rate of collapse of the cooling atmosphere .
But it is observed that both the morning and evening waves of pressure probably involve other elements than the forced waves , and are in part rhythmic repetitions of previous waves .
III .
" Effect of Chlorine on the Electromotive Force of a Voltaic Couple .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1888 .
If the electromotive force of a small voltaic couple of unamalgamated magnesium and platinum in distilled water , is balanced through the coil of a moderately sensitive galvanometer of about 100 ohms resistance , by means of that of a small Daniell 's cell plus that of a sufficient number of couples of iron and German silver of a suitable thermoelectric pile ( see ' Proceedings of the Birmingham Philosophical Society , ' vol. 4 , p. 130 ) , the degree of potential being noted ; and sufficiently minute quantities of very dilute chlorine-water are then added in succession to the distilled water , the degree of electromotive force of the couple is not affected until a certain definite proportion of chlorine has been added ; the potential then suddenly commences to increase , and continues to do so with each further addition within a certain limit .
Instead of making the experiment by adding chlorine-water , it may be made by gradually diluting a very weak aqueous solution of chlorine .
The minimuin proportion of chlorine necessary to cause this sudden change of .
electromotive force is extremely small ; in my experiments it has been 1 part in 17,000 million parts of water , * or less than a 7000th part of that required to yield a barely perceptible opacity in ten times the bulk of a solution of sal-ammoniac by means of nitrate of silver .
The quantity of liquid necessary for acting upon the couple * As 1 part of eMorine in 17,612 million parts of water had no visible effect , and 1 in 17,000 millions had a distinct effect , the influence of the difference , or of 1 part in 500,000 millions , has been detected .

