554 Note on the Paper by T. R. Merton on " Attempts to Produce the Rare Gases by Electric Discharge .
" By J. Norman Collie , F.RS .
( Received June 26 , 1914 .
) The apparatus used by Mr. Merton in the above-mentioned paper was very kindly handed over to the author .
The following experiments were made with it:\#151 ; Five grammes of metallic uranium were finely powdered in a steel mortar and then heated to redness in a water-pump vacuum for half an hour .
The metal was then transferred to a small bulb in which the metal could be bombarded with the cathode discharge , and this tube sealed on to the Merton apparatus .
A small bulb containing charcoal , a hard glass tube containing copper and copper oxide , and a small bulb with phosphorus pentoxide were also sealed on to the apparatus .
The whole was then pumped out and washed out several times with oxygen till the spark would not pass in the tube containing the uranium .
The tube was then heated as strongly as possible and the gases pumped off and examined ; carbon gases and hydrogen were present , but only just enough helium and neon to detect them in the ordinary way using a capillary tube .
The tube was again washed out with oxygen and pumped till the spark would not pass through the tube containing the uranium .
The palladium tube was then heated for about 20-30 seconds so as to admit hydrogen and allow the spark to pass .
The bombardment of the uranium lasted about two hours .
During all this time carbon gases and hydrogen were evolved from the metal .
These were absorbed by keeping the charcoal bulb cooled in liquid air and heating the copper oxide .
At the end of Experiment 1 enough helium and neon at about 2 mm. pressure remained to fill the capillary examining tube and also a small space below .
Experiment 2 , \#151 ; Bombardment for one and a-half hours .
Rather less helium and neon .
( The helium lines\#151 ; red , yellow , and green\#151 ; not so strong as in Experiment 1 .
) .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; Bombardment for one and a-half hours ; same result as in Experiment 2 ; the capillary tube filled with neon and helium .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; Bombardment one and a-half hours .
After the experiment the charcoal bulb was heated and the copper oxide tube also heated , and only the phosphorus pentoxide tube cooled .
Other gases than carbon dioxide and water vapour would therefore not be condensed .
The uncondensed gases in the capillary tube gave the nitrogen spectrum ; after the Attempts to Produce the Rare Gases by Electric Discharge .
555 nitrogen had been got rid of by sparking above the mercury , the whole capillary , as before , was left full of neon and helium , and just enough argon to show the blue spectrum .
In this experiment and all the following ones , before beginning the bombardment of the uranium , mercury was run up to the top of the capillary , showing that no gases remained in the apparatus from the former experiment .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; Bombardment one and a-half hours .
Result the same as in Experiment 4 , but by continual sparking to get rid of the nitrogen ( nitrogen combines with the mercury under these conditions ) the capillary tube pitted round the platinum electrode and finally cracked .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; A new bulb and new capillary tube were sealed on to the apparatus , which was carefully heated and washed out with pure oxygen till on running up the mercury into the capillary all gas disappeared on sparking .
After the bombardment of one and a-half hours was over , before taking the charcoal out of the liquid air the mercury was run up to the capillary and the usual amount ( namely , the whole of the capillary ) of neon and helium was found .
The charcoal was then taken out of the liquid air and heated and the copper oxide tube heated , and the phosphorus pentoxide tube cooled in liquid air .
The remaining gases , as before , now consisted of neon , helium and nitrogen , with just enough argon to show ( after the nitrogen had been removed by sparking ) , but the volume was the same as when only neon and helium were in the capillary tube .
Experiment 7.\#151 ; Bombardment one and a-half hours .
The result was exactly similar to the preceding experiment .
Experiment 8.\#151 ; A repetition of No. 7 , with the same result .
Experiment 9.\#151 ; In all the former experiments a coil giving a 10-inch spark with a platinum break was used .
A bigger coil with a mercury break was now employed .
The bombardment was for one and a-half hours .
Neither neon nor helium could be detected in the residual gases .
Experiment 10.\#151 ; The old coil with the platinum break was again used ; before , however , the residual nitrogen could be got rid of by sparking through the capillary tube , pitting occurred and the tube broke .
Experiment 11.\#151 ; A new capillary tube was sealed on , and after an hour 's sparking with the old coil neon , helium , nitrogen , and a trace of argon were found as before .
In all the above experiments the charcoal1 was strongly heated between each experiment and the apparatus washed out with oxygen made by heating permanganate of potash in a tube sealed on to apparatus .
The pump employed always held a green phosphorescent vacuum from day to day .
During all these experiments the gases in the tube were entirely cut off 556 Attempts to Produce the Rare Gases by Electric Discharge .
from the stopcocks during the whole of the experiment .
Moreover , if the neon and helium found were due to an air leak , it is difficult to account for the disappearance of the argon , which should have been present to the extent of one thousand times as much as the neon and helium found .
The amount of argon present , however , was too little to be measured , as it made no difference in the volume of the neon and helium ( cp .
Experiments 6 , 7 , and 8 ) .
The presence of the nitrogen is probably due to a nitride of uranium .
The author , however , has only been experimenting with the apparatus for less than a month , and in work of this sort experiments must be repeated more than once before reliance can be placed on them ; but that comparatively large amounts of neon and helium should come off from uranium by bombardment with the cathode rays , and not by heating , is a matter of interest ; also that in one experiment a change of coil should affect the result is an observation that must if possible be repeated .
That the presence of neon and helium in vacuum tubes , after the electric discharge has been passed , is due to an air leak seems most improbable .
Where the gases come from has yet to be proved .
They have been found by Sir J. J. Thomson , by Sir W. Eamsay , by Mr. G. Winchester , * and by the author , Mr. Patterson , and Mr. Masson .
Mr. Winchester is of the opinion that they are in some way occluded in the metal of the electrodes , and are not disintegration products of other elements .
Whatever the source may be , it is only by further experiments that the question will be solved .
The author hopes shortly to publish a more detailed report on the work done on this subject in conjunction with Mr. Patterson and Mr. Masson .
He also wishes to thank Mr. Merton for the most useful apparatus with which the experiments were made .
* George Winchester ( Physical Laboratory of Washington and Jefferson College ) , 'Physical Review , ' N.S. , vol. 3 , No. 4 , p. 287 , April , 1914 .

