" Researches on the Tides .
Ninth Series .
On the deduction of the Laws of the Tides , from short Series of Observations .
" By the Rev. W. Whewell , M.A. Trin .
Coil .
, Cambridge .
It is very desirable to ascertain whether it is possible to deduce the laws of the tides from short series of observations ; since , if it be so , not only does the construction of good tide tables for different places become more easy ; but also the value of tide tables is much increased , if the predicted tides agree with those of each year as well as with the mean of many years .
The object of the author in the present paper is to determine this point by the discussion of several years ' observations of the tides at Plymouth and at Bristol .
The calculations for the former place were executed by Mr. Dessiou and Mr. Ross in the Hydrographer 's Office at the Admiralty ; the cal ?
culations for Bristol were performed by Mr. Bunt , in virtue of a grant of money from the British Association .
The result of these discussions is , that a very regular form and good approximation for the semimenstrual inequality may be obtained from the observations of one year ; that the existence of the lunar parallax corrections appears very clearly in the observations of one year ; and that its value may be determined from a series of three or four years .
The lunar declination corrections are more irregularly given by short series of observations ; but in a series of four or five years , the general form and approximate value of the corrections become manifest .
In the course of these calculations such questions as the following were proposed , and their solution attempted : 1 .
To which transit of the moon ought we to refer the tide ?
It appears that the transit which produces the best accordance with theory , is that which Mr. Lubbock terms transit B , which is an epoch about 42 hours anterior to the high water at Bristol and Plymouth .
2 .
How does a change of the epoch affect , first , the semimenstrual inequality ; secondly , the parallax correction of the time ; thirdly , the declination correc ?
tion of the times ; fourthly , the parallax correction of heights ; and fifthly , the declination correction of the heights § 3 .
Does the pa ?
rallax corrections of height vary as the parallax § 4 .
Does the pa ?
rallax correction of time vary as the parallax § 5 .
Does the declination correction of the heights vary as the square of the declination § 6 .
Does the declination correction of time vary as the square of the declination § 7 .
Can the laws of the corrections be deduced from a single year § 8 .
Are there any regular differences between the corrections of successive years § 9 .
Do the corrections at different places agree in themselves ?
It does not appear that any change of the epoch will produce an accordance of the observed laws with the theory , some of the inequalities requiring one epoch for this purpose , and some requiring another .
The inequalities in different years and different places are also compared .
Mr. Whewell remarks , that since it has now been shown that good tide tables may be obtained from short series of observations , his researches with regard to the determination of the lunar correc ?
tions may be concluded ; and the proper mode of farther prosecuting the subject , would be to have tide observations at several stations , each observatory reducing its own observations , and thus constantly improving the tables , as is practised in other branches of Astro ?
nomy .

