]\gt ; Dr. Roberts .
On a fling erment . .
Not on the of a Ferment in reas.\ldquo ; By ROBERTS , M.D. , to the Manchester Royal Rcceived In coursc of some ations ou the estion of extract of ncreas , I found the milk passed a more or less pronounced phnse of , which often delayed the coml ) peptonising of the casein .
As the property of .
milk has been arded as the special ppanage of the astric ferment , I unprepared to find it associated with tbc ferments of the .
There is , howevcr , no doubt bout the fact , at least io regard tho pancrcas of the , the ox , and the sheep .
It found that of pancreas made with sftturated solution of hnd much strono er ] powers than the glycerine extract , ereas the latter had proteolytic the former .
This that the curdling ferment of the pancreas is from the ferment ( the of Kuhne ) , just as it has been that the ferment of the is from pepsine .
The brinc extract of lcreas , or pancreatic rennet , as it may be , scems to act on milk exactly in the same as renllet made from the calf 's stomach .
It ulates casein actively , both and iu alkitlinc milk , and it may be assumed as probable\mdash ; at until further \mdash ; that the of the stomach rtnd the of the pancreas arc one and the same ferment .
III .
" " some Recent Improvenlents made iu the of scopes at Birr Castle By the ] , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R. Abstract IV . .
lIeasurcment of the of ) Long.ltudinal Extellsion a \ldquo ; By A. MALLOCK .
icated by Lord IGII , .
Rceived May 17 , 1879 .
three coefficients which definc the elastic propcrties of solids , , the simple rigidity , ulus ( , nnd elahticity of volume ( k ) are connected by the equations The qunntity or the ratio of lateral contraction to extensio the measurement of which forms the subject of paper , Mr. A. Mallock on [ June 19 , ppears in many problems relating to the flexure of solids , and has besides a kind of historical interest in virtue of Poisson 's erroneous conclusion that it must be for all bodies .
Various methods have been yed to measure the ratio .
The most obvious perhaps after direct measurement ( which is obviously only applicable to a very small class of bodies ) is to compare the times of longitudinal and torsional ation of a wire or cylinder of the substance .
But as by this method and are the velocities of the vibrations which depend on and respectively , it is easily seen that large errors may appear in the valtle deduced for when only comparatively small are made in the measurement of and , and besides this it is not unlikely the and deterlnined by viblations , when there is not time for the heat caused by the strain to alter its distribution by conduction , may not be the same as when determined by statical methods .
Wertheim made use of tubes osed at one end and filled with water , the stlrface of which appeared in a capillary tube fixed at the other end .
The necessary data were obtained by subjecting the tubes to longitudinal strain , and observing the extension produced by it and the depression of the water in the capillary tube .
Kirchhoff has employed an ingenious method in the case of brass and stecl rods .
It depended on observing simultaneously the torsion and flexure produced by a on an arm attached in a horizontal plane at to one end of the rod , the other end of the rod being fixed in a position .
His experiments seem have been made with every precaution against error , and the values he deduces for are 294 for steel and 387 for brass , both of which are larger than the values found in my experiments on the same metals .
This may be attribnted part , at any rate , to the fact that Kirchhoff used hardened steel and drawn brass rods , whereas most of my specimens were annealed .
The which I have employed has some advantages over these , especially in this tlIat it is applicable to almost every solid , no matter how brittle it may be , or how narl .
OW are its limits of elasticity .
It depcnds on proposition that when a rectangular bar with plane sides is bent by opposing couples whose planes are parallel to one pair of sides , the other pair become surfaces of uniform anti-elastic curvature , with radii of curvature and provided ' that is compared with the third proportional to the thickness and cadth of the bar .
( Scc Thomson and Tait " " Nat. Phil S 716 .
) If and ) are adii of curvaturc parallcl to the and 1879 .
] the JIeasurement of a Bodpy under Strain .
of the bar respectively , I measure this rabio as On one side of a bar , fig. 1 , of the substance for which is to be measul.cd , and about the lniddle of its longth , circle is described of nearly equal to the breadth of the bar .
Diameters in this circle parallel perpendicular to the of the , and at their extremities fine holes arc drilled llormnl to the urface .
( The dimensions of these holes are so small to thosc of the bar , that they do not sensibly affect the Four fine steel }vires of equal firmly in these oles , nnd their free ends arc then bent so bc the ) of icroscope { the time .
rLhc bnr is then ] of which .
is a section .
FIG. 2 .
BB ' pairs of ) vccn is oullted on framo bo ncod tow$n(( , by the screw is Mr. A. Mallock on [ June 19 , a spherical head into a spherical cavity in bb ' at , and is exactly between A and , and and .
When the bar bent in this frame by turning the screw , the bending is accomplished by pure , equal , and opposite couples ; for since are rollers and free to turn , there can be no tractions along the face of the bar , and therefore the pressures are normal to the surface , and the couples are equal in irtue of the equality of the distances AC and BC .
Thus for that part of the bar between and the radii of ature R and are constant , except in so far as they may be affected by the surface distribution of pressure at and which as may readily be seen by the transverse section , would tend FIG. 3 .
to make too large in the neighbourhood of the roIlers ; but the effect produced by this cause must be quite nificant towards the middle of the bar .
The whole frame is mounted on a platform with screw motions parallel and perpendicular to the length of the bar , and the free ends of the wires are focussed in a fixed microscope , FIG. 4 .
Let , fig. 4 , be the ends of the wires .
distances parallel and perpendicular to the length of the bar respectively , are measured by the screw motions , first , when bar is unstrained , and again when it is bent turning the screw D. Lct be these distances , then if of the wires , dius of circle drawn on bar , angle made by the wire with the normal to the increment of the distance between and .
when bar is bent , or is ' 1879 .
] th rement of a under Strain .
and the declemont of between and is hence The linlit to the ness of cllrvature can be elllployed to surC f by this lllcthod on tho of the which ] bc ] me by the lnicroscopc ( micrometer .
Tn my experiments varied from inch , about inches ncarly 5 inch .
These values would makc ( dinlcnsions of ) bont 8ches , so the third ) roportionftl to the ) cadth ( , lfils the colldition of R. In , I found oyed without sensibly the ined for thd of the of substallcos -hich not opic .
cxtllnples of this ivcn in tnble elow in of the oods box , beech , deal ; , arc the of plnne of the trec , , the contnins the fibres ; is the in plane ( .utti ' the of the tree at will be iced three C is to there 1ellSC i , radinl , but this is in I found a of for ious S

