II .
" On the Existence of Silver in Sea-water .
" By FREDERICK FIELD , F.C.S. Communicated by MICHAEL FARADAY , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received October 23 , 1856 .
In a paper first published by MM .
Malaguti , Durocher , and Sarzeaud in the ' Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' xxviii .
p. 129 , and translated in the Quarterly Journal of the Chem. Soc. , vol. iii .
p. 69 , there is an account of the detection and estimation of silver in sea-water .
The authors suspected the existence of the metal from the extensive diffusion of silver in the mineral kingdom , the conversion of its sulphide into chloride by the prolonged action of soluble bodies containing chlorine , and the solubility of chloride of silver in chloride of sodium .
The method pursued was by passing sulphuretted hydrogen through large quantities of water , and also by fusing the salts obtained by evaporation with litharge and subsequent cupellation .
As a solution of chloride of silver in chloride of sodium is instantly decomposed by metallic copper , chloride of copper being formed and silver precipitated , it appeared to me highly probable that the copper and the yellow metal used in sheathing the hulls of vessels , must , after long exposure to sea-water , contain more silver than they did before having been exposed to its action , by decomposing chloride of silver in their passage through the sea , and depositing the metal on their surfaces .
A large vessel , the ' Ana Guimaraens , ' now under the Chilian flag , 'was hauled down in the Bay of Herradura , near Coquimbo , for the purpose of being repaired , and the captain obligingly furnished me with a few ounces of the yellow metal from the bottom of the vessel .
The investigation was interesting , as the metal had been on for more than seven years ( an unusually long period ) , and the ship had been trading up and down the Pacific Ocean all that time .
The metal , upon examination , was found to be exceedingly brittle , and could be broken between the fingers with great ease .
5000 grs. were dissolved in pure nitric acid and the solution diluted ; a few drops of hydrochloric acid were added , and the precipitate allowed to subside for three days .
A large quantity of white insoluble matter had collected by that time at the bottom of the beaker .
This was filtered off , dried , and fused with 100 grs. pure litharge and suitable proportions of bitartrate of potash and carbonate of soda , the ashes of the filter also being added .
The resulting button of lead was subsequently cupelled , and yielded 2'01 grs. silver , or 1 lb. 1 oz. 2 dwts .
15 grs. troy per ton .
This very large quantity could hardly be supposed tva have existed in the original metal , as the value of the silver would be well worth the extraction .
It is to be regretted that the captain had none of the original on board .
A piece of yellow metal with which he was repairing the vessel yielded only 0 oz. 18 dwts .
to the ton .
I was enabled by the courtesy of the captain of the 'Nina , ' a brig which had just arrived in the Pacific from England , to obtain more satisfactory information .
He gave me a piece of Muntz 's yellow metal from his cabin , from the same lot with which the brig was sheathed , but which had never been in contact with salt water ; and also a small portion from the hull of the ship after it had been on nearly three years .
The experiments were performed as before , and the results were very striking .
grs. gr. oz. dwts .
grs. 1700 from cabin gave '051=='003 per cent.=0 19 14 per ton .
1700 from hull , , *400=-023 , , =7 13 1 , , That which had been exposed to the sea having nearly eight times as much silver as the original sample .
Many other specimens were examined of metals from the bottoms of ships , and of pieces which are always kept on board in case of need , and it was invariably found that the former contained more silver than the latter .
For instance , a piece from the hull of the 'Bergmann ' gave 5 ozs .
16 dwts .
18 grs. per ton , while that from the cabin yielded 4 ozs .
6 dwts .
12 grs. 200 grs. from a piece from the hull of the 'Parga ' gave '072 gr. , and a piece of fresh metal ?
050 ; while from the 'Grasmere , ' only coppered a few months , 610 grs. from the hull gave '075 and from the cabin '072 , -a very slight difference indeed .
It will be observed that the amount of silver in the above specimens of fresh metal is very high , and it is probable that most of these are merely the re-rolling of masses of metal melted down from old sheathing , and have derived the greater part of their silver from the sea on former occasions .
It is well known that the copper used in the manufacture of yellow metal is very pure , containing 2 or 3 dwts .
of silver per ton , frequently not so much , and silver is very seldom associated with the other constituent , zinc .
In order to arrive at more certain results , however , I have granulated some very pure copper , reserving some in a glass stoppered bottle , and suspended the remainder ( about 10 ounces ) in a wooden box perforated on all sides , a few feet under the surface of the Pacific Ocean .
When occasion offers , the box is towed by a line at the stern of a vessel which is trading up and down the coast of Chili .
It is almost too soon to expect any decisive results at present , but in a few months I hope to be enabled to send both the original copper , and that which has been exposed to the action of the sea .

