20 Messrs. C. T. Heycoek and F. H. Neville .
" Gold-Aluminium Alloys .
" By C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. , and F. H. Neville , F.R.S. Received October 31 , \#151 ; Read December 7* 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The first part of this paper gives the equilibrium curve for the liquid alloys and the various solid bodies that can form in them .
The ciuve is based on the determination of the freezing points of mixtures varying in composition from pure gold to pure aluminium .
The freezing points were determined by means of platinum resistance pyrometers of the Callendar-Griffiths type , and the composition of each alloy was found by extracting a sample from the crucible and analysing it .
The ordinate in the curve is the freezing point on the air-centigrade scale , and the abscissa is the composition of the alloy expressed in atomic percentages of aluminium .
The curve was found to consist of seven branches , each branch corresponding to a state in which a particular solid crystallises first .
In-harmony with this , seven substances can be detected in the solid alloys. .
The bodies are :\#151 ; Gold , Au4A1 ; A115AI2 or perhaps Au3A13 ; Au2A1 ; a body which is probably AuAl ; AuA12 , Roberts-Austen 's purple alloy ; aluminium- The bodies Au2A1 and AuAL* are indicated by well-marked summits in the curve , at 33-4 and at 66'6 atomic per cents , of aluminium respectively .
The melting or freezing point of Au2A1 is at 625 ' C. , that of AuAl , is at 1062 ' C. , apparently identical with the melting point of gold itself .
The body whose formula we give as either Au5A12 or Au8A13 has its melting point at 575 ' C. The body Au4A1 has its melting point near 550 ' C. That of the hypothetical AuAl is not given by the curve .
The curve has three well-marked eutectic angles .
One of these is at 527 " C. and 3-6 per cent , by weight of aluminium , the alloy here being a mixture of Au4A1 and Au5A12 .
The next is at 569 ' C. and 8*36 per cent , by weight of aluminium ; this alloy has a composition corresponding to the formula Au3A12 , but it is a mixture of Au2A1 and AuAl .
The third eutectic is at 648 C. , and the alloy-contains 1*87 per cent , by weight of gold ; it is a mixture of AuA12 and aluminium .
V\ e see from the above that the mixture with the lowest melting point of all is that containing 3'6 per cent , by weight of aluminium , this small percentage depressing the melting point of gold from 1062 ' C. to- , that is more than 500 .
A liquid of this composition , though * See footnote , p. 21 .
Gold-Aluminium Alloys .
21 almost wholly composed of gold , will not begin to solidify until this comparatively low temperature of 527 ' C. is reached.* Each of these eutectic points gives rise to a horizontal row of second freezing points in the curve , and the alloys containing more than 44 and less than 60 atomic per cents , of aluminium have three distinct freezing points corresponding to the successive formation of three solid bodies .
The four compounds , Au4A1 , Au5A12 , Au2A1 , and the hypothetical AuAl , are pure white substances .
AuAL , as is well known from the work of Sir W. Roberts-Austen , is a magnificent purple body .
The latter part of the paper gives the result of a microscopic examination of polished and etched sections of alloys taken from various parts of the curve .
All the bodies referred to above could be distinguished under the microscope .
The photomicrographs accompanying the paper show that the structure of the solid alloy is everywhere in strict harmony with the indications of the freezing point curve .
Speaking generally , we may say that the patterns observed in the photographs repeat themselves at corresponding points of each branch of the curve .
For example , near the summit of the branch corresponding to the pure alloy , Au2A1 , the photograph shows us more or less hexagonal polygons of this substance almost entirely filling the field , and only separated from each other by very fine lines of impurity .
If we take a section of an alloy a little way below the summit , we see the polygons of Au2A1 surrounded by a ribbon-like network of mother substance .
Still further down , the crystals of Au2A1 are scanty , and arranged in such regular patterns , generally in lines at right angles to each other , as to render it certain that they crystallised freely while surrounded by liquid .
Finally , at the bottom of the branch , that is at the eutectic point , the large crystals of Au2A1 are absent , and the whole field is full of the mother substance , which is sometimes but , as we explain in the paper , not always a eutectic mixture .
If , leaving the eutectic point , we ascend the next branch , these phenomena repeat themselves , but the primary crystallisation ( that is the matter which solidified first ) is now of a different substance .
Some of the photographs of alloys very rich in aluminium were taken by the Rontgen rays , and an enlargement made from the negative .
The contrast between the Rontgen ray photograph and the surface photograph of the same alloy shows what a much better picture of the structure of the alloy is given by the Rontgen rays .
* The rapid depression in the freezing point of gold , due to the presence of small quantities of aluminium , and the great rise in the freezing point as the composition corresponding to the compound An AL is approached , have been already discovered by Sir William Roberts-Austen .

