]\gt ; Uber Reihen der Convergenzgrenze .
number results which enumerates the combinations with which the problem is concerned .
The problems to which the method is applicable those which are , directly or indirectly , associated with lattices , and it is remarkable that , for the most part , they are such as have been hitherto regarded as unassailable by the processes of pure mathematics .
If a problem be presented for solution , it may be a difficult matter to design the function and the operation , the combination of which furnishes the solution .
The plan here adopted is to consider certain functions and operations , and then to inquire into the nature of the associated problems .
The author has attempted to place the method on a sure foundation , to give illustrative examples of gradually increasing complexity , and to indicate some promising lines of future investigation .
The only published work connected with the subject is the author 's paper , entitled ' ' A New Method in Combinatory Analysis , with application to Latin Squares and Associated Questions which will be found in the 'Trans .
Camb .
Phil. Soc vol. , Part , p. 262 .
" " Uber Reihen auf der renze.\ldquo ; Von IANUE LASKER , Dr. Philos. Communicated by Major MAcMAHON , F.R.S. eceived March Apri15 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The essay is divided into three chapters .
A limit operation of any kind , for instance , simple or multiple integration ; the formation of infinite sums or products ; or any combination of these operations gives rise to certain typical considerations which form the subject of the first chapter .
To fix the ideas , let where the are analytical functions of .
; and let be a point on the curve which forms the boundary of the region of convergence of the series .
Let be a curve within the region of collvergence terminating in .
In that case is generally different from , , varying on the curve C. It is a matter of the greatest importance to examine the relations between these two mathematical conceptions .
If . .
converges where has a definite values , hich u , assume upon , is convergent , expression has always a definite limit which coincides with .
It is very easy to derive from this theorem a multitude of others .
For instance , the maximm value of being being positive and varying within the circle whose centre is , and whose radius is unity has , for , zero ; limit whenever converges .
If ?
be divergent when will have as limit , if a certain condition be satisfied ; viz. , the described by ?
varying upon , should lie in an angle less than , whose vertex is .
This criterion is principally important on aocomlt of its connection with a certain theorem , the " " type theorem Two sequences are said to be of the same " " type\ldquo ; if tends uniformly towards a finite limit different from zero .
If then be divergent when and the satisfy the above condition will tend towards The second chapter deals with an application of the type theorem .
A power whose coefficients are such that Influence of Temperature of Air on Bacteria .
339 has for indefinitely increasing values of , as limit , tends multiplied by , towards the limit .
This proposition , which follows immediately from the type theorem , gives for Abel 's theorem ; for , the theorem of Frobenius ( ' Crelle , ' 1878 ) ; and leads to Ilsequences in regard to the integrals of linear differential equations with rational coefficients .
The principal result of this chapter , is that the singularities of a function , defined by a power series , can be found and their nature analysed by the examination only , for values of tending towards , of the sequence and of other sequences derived from this one .
A new conception is introduced in the third chapter , that of an ' asymptotical region An asymptotical region encloses always a point , of essential singularity , of a function and of an ordinary region enclosing with an infinity of co-holes in it , not enclosing , but approaching it indefinitely .
The object of the author is to throw some light on the manner in which a function behaves in the vicinity of a point of essentiaI singularity .
It is shown that if being , and the denoting finite integers , an asymptotical region can generally be constructed in which if ; and that this proposition is convertible .
The new conception is applied to the theory of transcendental integral functions as founded by Weierstrass , Laguerre , Poincare ' , \amp ; c. If denotes a function of class zero , certain asymptotical region will belong to in the above sense .
If where the are any constants , such that the power series bas a non-vanishing radius of convergence , will again be a transcendental integral function of class zero ; and the asymptotical region belonging to will be the same as that belonging to .
" " Further Note on the Influence of he Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria By ALLAN MACFADYEN , M.D. , and S. ROWLAND , M.A. Communicated by LORD LISTER , P.R.S. Received Apri13 , \mdash ; Read April 5 , 1900 .
In a previous communicationit was shown that no appreciable influence was exerted upon the vital properties of bacteria when exposed for 20 hours to the temperature of liquid air C. to * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc February 1 , 1900 .
VOL. LXVI .
2

