243 Note on a New Sounding Machine for use on Lakes and Rivers without a Boat .
By E. J. Garwood , M.A. , Sec. Geol .
Soc. ( Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonney , F.R.S. Received May 15 , \#151 ; Read June 4 , 1908 .
) 1 .
Introduction .
In the course of an investigation into the mode of origin of certain Alpine lakes in the Canton Ticino , it became obvious that no conclusive results could be arrived at so long as the subaqueous forms of these rock-basins remained unknown .
In the admirable detailed map published by the Swiss Government , no attempt has been made to represent by soundings the storage capacity of these Alpine reservoirs , a fact somewhat astonishing , at first sight , when we consider the great value of water power to the inhabitants of the Republic .
The omission , however , becomes more intelligible when the difficulties involved in obtaining the necessary soundings are realised .
The majority of these lakes are situated in wild and uninhabited districts , where no boats are available , and though boats of the Berthon and Shellbend types have occasionally been employed in similar cases , their use is attended with many drawbacks , the chief of these being their instability and their liability to drift .
The latter drawback renders them most unsuitable for work on mountain tarns where gusts and squalls are of constant occurrence .
Under these circumstances it seemed desirable , if possible , to devise an instrument which would enable an observer to obtain an accurate bathymetrical chart of any mountain lake without being dependent upon a boat .
With the assistance of a grant of \#163 ; 15 from the Government Grant Committee of this Society , which I here gratefully acknowledge , an experimental model was designed , which gave satisfactory results .
The knowledge thus acquired was made use of in the construction of a second , more efficient instrument , with which a group of lakes in the Canton Ticino was successfully charted .
The results of the investigation were published in the ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society ' ( vol. 62 , 1906 , p. 165 , Plates 7\#151 ; 21 ) .
The instrument , which is here described for the first time , is the outcome of the experience thus gained , and in it are embodied alterations and additions suggested by practical experience acquired in working with the two previous models .
Its chief advantages are:\#151 ; 244 Prof. E. J. Garwood .
New Sounding Machine [ May 15 , ( 1 ) Its portability .
It can easily be carried by one man even in mountain districts .
( 2 ) It can be used where no boats are available .
( 3 ) It is practically unaffected by any ordinary breeze , so that a line of soundings may be run between any two points in a nearly straight line from shore to shore .
( 4 ) Not only the depth of each sounding but the distance from the shore at which it is taken is automatically registered .
2 .
General Description of the Instrument .
The instrument consists essentially of two posts ( A and B ) erected on opposite sides of the lake or river , manipulated respectively by the observer and his assistant , who work gradually down from one end of the lake to the other .
The posts are connected by a line , to the centre of which is attached a float carrying a pulley for the support of the plummet line .
The ends of the connecting line are wound on two drums ( Y and Z ) fitted to the posts A and B. By means of these drums the float can be drawn backwards and forwards across the lake , and thus takes the place of a boat in the usual method of sounding .
The post B , in charge of the assistant , carries nothing but this drum ( Z , fig. 2 ) , fitted with a stop-brake , and the duty of the assistant is merely to haul in and let out the float as directed .
This is an important point in the construction of the machine , as it enables any boy or untrained assistant to be utilised for the purpose , all registering mechanism being confined to the post A. The post A ( fig. 1 ) is worked by the observer .
It is provided with two drums ( X and Y ) accurately paired and placed on either side of the post .
These are fitted to an axle which is common to both .
The drum Y is firmly fixed to this axle and always revolves with it ; the drum X can also be arranged so \lt ; as to revolve with the axle by dropping the spring bolt ( a ) , it then revolves with the drum Y ; by raising the bolt ( a ) , however , the drum X is set free and can revolve independently on the axle .
The line from the drum Y , as stated above , is attached to one end of the float , while the line from the drum X is the sounding line and travels through a counting machine W to the centre of the float , where it passes over the pulley to the plummet .
The drum X is fitted with a check ( b ) , worked by a lever on the right-hand edge of the post.* This prevents the drum from racing when the plummet is running out , and can also be brought into action for the same purpose when the wheels are coupled and the float is being drawn to a new position .
* Right and left hand from the point of view of an observer facing the counting machine .
1908 .
] for use on Lakes and Rivers without a Boat .
SCALE 1:6.5 .
FIG 1 Brace r Check Pulley ( k ) Clearing Pulley ( 1 ) Release Tever ( h ) Check Pulley ( k ) Adjusting Thumb Screw ( i ) Travelling Pulley ( e ) Brake ( c ) on Drum Y Drum X Guide Pulley ( f ) Tine to Plummet Driving Pulley ( g ) Counting Machine W Travelling Pulley ( e\gt ; .Spring Bolt ( a ) Tine to Float from Drum Y Check ( b ) on Drum X ----Spooling Arms ( d ) Point inserted in Ground .
Fig. 1 .
246 Prof. E. J. Garwood .
New Sounding Machine [ May loy The drum Y is fitted with a stop-brake worked by a sliding lever ( c ) on the-left-hand edge of the post.* This brake works on the toothed edge of a plate fixed to the inner side of the drum , and brings this drum instantaneously to-rest .
By dropping the bolt ( a ) and thus coupling X and Y , the drum X is also rendered stationary when this brake is applied .
The two lines are fed on to the drums by means of the spooling arms ( d ) , which are coupled and move together horizontally across the faces of the drums .
These spooling arms are supplied to prevent the lines from piling .
Should , however , piling take place , it will be forced to do so symmetrically on both drums , and the lines are thus kept equally taut .
Without this- , device the plummet is liable to drag behind and become caught in shallow water .
The free movement of the spooling arms is ensured by the travelling pulleys ( e , e ' ) .
The line from the drum Y travels from the pulley e to the float .
The sounding line from drum X , after leaving the travelling pulley ( r ) , .
passes through the counting machine W and over the guide pulley ( / ) to the plummet .
The Counting Machine W is driven by the plummet line , which passes round the large pulley ( g ) , forming the first counting disc and registering inches .
Three other counting discs , geared to ( g ) , register feet , tens of feet , and hundreds of feet respectively .
Each of the discs is engraved with a double series of numbers in red and black , registering in opposite directions^ by means of which the machine can be made to record either the amount of line let out or the amount drawn in .
By loosening a thumb-screw , the lever ( h ) can be raised and the driving pulley { g ) and the sounding line disengaged from the remaining portion of the counting machine .
The dials , recording feet , can then be rapidly returned to zero by the adjusting thumb-screw ( f ) , the plummet line meantime remaining at rest .
The constant tension of the line on the driving pulley is secured by means of the spring roller clips ( k , k ' ) , while the line is prevented from running off the side of the driving pulley by the clearing pulley ( 7 ) , which ensures the line crossing freely , clear of the machine .
The Float consists of an inflated air cushion of lifebuoy pattern .
This-supports an aluminium platform , the centre of which is perforated for the passage of the plummet line , which runs over a pulley fixed to the platform at the margin of the perforation ( fig. 2 ) .
When the lake is wide , it is sometimes convenient to add a small supplementary float to support the lines and to prevent them from sinking too far under water .
* Eight and left hand from the point of view of an observer facing the counting machine .
1908 .
] for use on Lakes and Rivers without a Boat .
247 The Line actually used is a plaited waterproofed salmon line.* Stronger line or fine wire can be used for distances and depths greater than those usually met with in small Alpine lakes or ordinary rivers .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Showing Post B , Drum Z , and Float carrying Sounding Line .
3 .
Method of using the Instrument .
Starting with his assistant near one end of the lake , the observer erects the post A in a position suitable for taking a line of soundings across the lake .
The assistant proceeds to a selected spot on the opposite shore , where he erects the post B , leaving with the observer the float , to which the end of his line is attached .
He then winds this line taut , thus establishing direct communication between the opposite shores of the lake .
The float can now be hauled across the lake and a line of soundings obtained at intervals between the two posts ( fig. 3 ) .
The two drums X and Y on the observer 's post being coupled by means of the spring bolt ( a ) , and the counting machine being at zero , the assistant winds in his line until a given distance , say 25 feet , is registered by the red figures on the counting machine .
This records the distance that the float has travelled out from the observer 's shore .
The lever of the brake c is then raised , locking both drums securely .
The spring bolt ( a ) is next drawn from * Supplied by Messrs. Carter and Co. , St. John Street , London , E.C. 248 Prof. E. J. Garwood .
New Sounding Machine [ May 15 , its socket , allowing the drum X to revolve freely on the axle and the sounding line to run out .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Showing Method of Sounding .
When the plummet reaches the bottom , the counting machine will register the depth of the sounding in addition to the 25 feet previously recorded on the instrument for the position of the float .
The depth in feet , therefore , of any sounding , taken when the float is travelling from the observer to his assistant , is registered by the red figures , and is obtained by deducting the figure registered on the dial before the plummet is let down from the figure registered when the plummet has reached the bottom .
Thus:\#151 ; Amount registered by red figures , plummet being at surface ... ... 25 ft. " " " bottom ... . .
45 " Depth of lake at 25 feet from observer 's shore = ( 45 \#151 ; 25 ft. ) = 20 ft. The sounding line is then wound in , when the red figures will again register 25 feet .
The drums are then coupled again by dropping the bolt ( a ) , the brake b removed by lowering the lever ( c ) , and the float is hauled by the assistant to a new position and a second sounding taken .
1908 .
] for use on Lakes and Rivers without a Boat .
249 When the first line of soundings is completed and the float has reached the post B , the observer or his assistant moves further down the lake .
The counting machine having been returned to zero , the observer proceeds to haul back the float to his side of the lake , taking soundings at intervals as before .
The black , not the red , figures are now used .
It must be remembered , however , in the case of this second series of soundings , that , since the plummet line as well as the float line is being hauled in by the observer , the figure representing the depth of the lake , at any sounding , will be deducted on the dial from the figure representing the distance from the shore for the position of that sounding ; for the plummet line , in running out , will move the registering dial in the opposite direction to that in which it is moved when the float is being hauled towards the observer .
Thus:\#151 ; Amount registered by black figures representing distance from shore when plummet is at surface ... ... ... ... ... ... 25 ft. Ditto when plummet is at bottom ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5 " Depth of lake at 25 ft. from assistant 's shore is ( 25 \#151 ; 5 ft. ) = 20 ft. The red figures can , of course , be ' used for taking the sounding if their position is noted each time .
In practice , however , it is found to be more convenient to proceed as stated above .

