]\gt ; On of a Method of alculating ) ilities , and uilibrium ( stants of Chemical eactious , and on a Formnla for the Latent Heats of ) \ldquo ; By , II .
A. , .
by Professor ISAY , .
1{eceived , 1902 .
I. A of , it that for any of closely ) stances , the of the solute temperatures Iing to ponr P is In the of ) stances not closely elated , it shown , generally , that the elation I ) etween the bsolute t at whioh the two ) tnces have equal .
pressures could , with very approximation , be ) ressed by the equation , , being the ratio of the absolute or at which the ) stanc.es both give11 ponr pessure ; is may ) or snlall ptive lluml er ; and are the teml ) of one of the ) stancescol.rospondiug to these two , since the tion of the from const y fonnd to bc tion of the temperatnre , we the means of the tion T this tion ( is of the order nity , and l ) of the or vious tion .
the ] shown ) by means of the ) ressul of one su stance is known , the ponr 1 ) cnrve of any other can be the hlcs , , of the of .
The above ) was tested by in the .
of 23 of nceS , has olmd to hold ) to The of which tho method can used , bhow by I tho memoi ] of tioned .
At the snggcstion of , I tuldetook the tion of thod could ) the tion of ilitics ; to of msay and Yonng the ) teltll ) tnrcs at which two ) , therefore , the tion holds good with respoct to the two stances .
this denote the tios of solutc t which the ) * ' , p. 33 .
is way } ] ) ) of kryptotl , and xenon cell alculatod by } .
472 ] .
A. l'indlay .
ilIethod of Table deulation of the Vapour Pressures of Carbon Disulphide from the Vapour Pressllres of Water . .
of O. Smoothed dabs.temps temps .
0 .
283 .
5000 0 .
ties ; ( .
is a constant which may , possibly , have the , but which .
in all the I have examined , has a small positive or ] : and the tnres at which one of the ) has the two values of the solubility in question .
also no or , or hei.r A method , which is in all points to employed by for the calculation of , can thus made use of the calculation of ilities .
to calculate the solubility of ally ) Ilce B ) ynleans of the valueb of the ility of nother s , oue proceeds follows The ility of at two absolnte temperatnres and T)is detel.mined .
On dividing these temper tnres into the tempcratures which A has the ility , the ined .
These tios vow plotted as the ding ttnres of the ) ordinates , and a ight line tho olllts thns ined .
aight line cve , now , difiel.tios c be oft the of the turcs of substance A. By the stance the of the turc r , the ce.t .
of .
473 ttnrc T is tnined , which the of is equal to that of A at the T. In this the ilities of covering the of k ] ilitics of A ) I have tested method in the case of lnml er of substances of cter ) , and , in cases , a ctory creoment ctweeIl the of the ility as calculated ] ) means of the ) method mined experimentally .
This is 1 dily ttppnrent ) II , III , , and In the ) the ilities in borammemolecnles of ) -molecnlcs of ( water ) .
With } to the ) ilitics of zinc romidc , of cadmium ) omide , the )vcrc omployed .
In the case of the solubilities of ssinm chloride and le Coppet ; those of ssium An( thosc of and cidcnlated by means of the ) TI . .
A .
, ; ' of ; 1 .
1 .
As tho ility ot the zinc romidc cidly of tho ilit ) there stecp , vcly b in gc in ility .
The grccment , tho ] } the miued tho very stalt ; . !
' 'Jl .
S rullS . .
Dr. A. Findlay .
On a JIethod of lating Solubilities , III.\mdash ; KBr and 0.9370 .9313 0.9294 Table ) and .
4 .
5 .
\mdash ; 6 .
7 .
10 .
9.61\mdash ; 11 .
0.9494 0.9775 0.9849 1.007 The very satisfactory agreement found in the case of the .
above salts is of interest from the fact that the two substances are lonlsed in a very different degree .
Table V.\mdash ; m- -Oxybenzoic Acids .
304 1* 309.7 317 .
O. 096 O. 096 O. The mples o11ly few of the in tosted the idity of the ) scctt , the ( coment ) theory expcrlmeltt l th.c of .
475 factory .
An good agreement was also in the other cases which I investigated .
From the consider ) number of eases I have studied , it wonld appettr that the bove method can ) applied to the deulatio of solul)ilities close pproximntion to the truth .
As to the ra1lge of or solubilities over which the tionship holds good , no definite statement can be made as yet .
In most all cases the ship was tested over the whole range of ) to , over the rarlge of temperatures within hich the two snbstances mder cison have equal of tho no due to inaccuracies in the tion of the solnbilities , and to errors in the drawing of the lrves o from them .
II .
of .
\mdash ; The of Ramsay and there , be applied not only , already been , to the tion of ponr pressures of solubilities , but it can ) used .
the of ting the of chemical leactions .
In this and denote the ratios of ) solutc t which the of the equilibrium of the two ctioItb / .
In this case , also , if of the ) constant of one , it ) possible to the curve of the oquilil iu1tl of ction , by determining the of .
This is shown by the fignres fivctl in ) two ctions which were comp tl.edwele thosc the ) ) , and .
ctious , efore , } } hicb of it most lissimilar ctcr .
As the ] of the of these two ctions not detcrmioed at sllfficient mlber of suit atnrcH for the prescIlt pnrpose , it was to the of the other tnrcs .
In the of calculated for the ) ) ) ) of the The onnd : \mdash ; K In the of the of to cctone which the lilil ) iunl ctern ) ined only *Bodcnst. .
Physik .
) .
, ' ' 1900 , , .
476 Dr. A. Findlay .
a of temperatures , and , the values of the were calculated at , by means of the integrated form of the Hoff equation : the valne of , the heat of reaction , being regarded as constant and equal to centuple calories:* is the ' gas stant The error introduced here caIl scarcely be very large .
Table As call seen from the above figures , the agreement between the calculated and mined values of the equilibrium is exceedingly good , especially when one considers how different the two reactions are in character and also that in one case the equilibrium constant creases , in the other case , diminishes with the tnre .
So far , this is the only which I have been to test the application of the formla to the culation of equilibrium constants .
Ou account , however , of the nalogy existing between the of the vaponr pressure , ility , and equilibriunl constant , with the ture , it may bc confidently expected tl when other cases comc to be tried , tion of the relationship will be On accou1lt of the practical importance of the ctbove ships , thought it well , iu this note , to ) ] them the present empi1ical form .
I hope , however , at a time , to discuss the question in greater detail , with the help of Iger lnml)er of examples , and also to mine the subject from the theoretical standpoint .
It , however , be remarked here , the }whole work has on the form of the given by Hoff ) , which once shows the oelicl , ilibriu mof ctions , existing veen vponr pressnres , bilities , equilirilml constants of reactions .
III .
for of , the rogress of the a consideration of certain put a number of by 17 .
C. Unwin , connecting the , temperature , and volume of pours , to a formla ) means of which from the late1lt heats of of one subst ' the valnes of the latent of vaporisation of another ) stance m ) nlated .
If is the known latent heat at the absolute tnre T of the ) ce , and the latent of the second ) at the which the vapour of the seco11d ] ) is equal to thnt of the stance d the then hcre x is a constant .
-L formla wnich is derived with strictness , ) which illS two constants , is .
In some cases the latter ettcr whes t the former , ) for most poseb the simpler may be employed .
These formlae to ) for the tent h of too high ) ) in some cases 10,000 mm. , 1thongh in other CiJSCS thoy hold even of over 20,000 In some of the results which the simplct ) lIcthyl lIcnt of } .
of ol letl ) cement 1 the detc ] mined of the tcnt h of vaporis } tion , is very sontc howcver , hicl ) I ] , tho of zono , the grccment is ltot quite good .
The dncs of the tcnt h of of ) CYlzcne , methyl ethyl lcohol , cn in the fourth ffth colnmns of the ' , vol. On a of Solubilities , Table VIII .
Benzene and Ethyl Alcohol .
Tables and VIII , were by means of the thermodynttmic equation ' using the data of Ramsay and for ethyl alcohol ; of for benzene ; and and Thomas methyl acetate .
It is probable that , in some cases least , a formula similar to that riven above may be used for the tion of heats of solution and of chemical re ction , ) at present the data necessary for testiIlg this are not available .
1 .
It is shown that ) means of tlIe equation ( viple p. 471 ) , vapour pressures ( Ramsay and ) , ) ilities , and the equiliI ) constants of chemical reactions be calculated .
2 .
The latent heat of vaporisation of a substance caIl be lated from the latent heat of tion of a1lother snhstance , ithin a certain range , by means of the tion L ) .
My thanks are due to Professor Ramsay for the advice which he has iven during the progress of the preseut work .
* ' Phil. Trans 1886 , , 1 ) .
71 . .
, .
134 .

