300 X. " An Experimental Inquiry into the alleged Sugar-forming Function of the Liver .
" By F. W. PAVY , M.D. Cornmunicated by Dr. OWEN REES .
Received May 26 , 1858 , ( Abstract .
) The author commenced by stating that the question to be discussed in his communication was , not whether sugar was to be found in the animal system independently of a saccharine alimentation , for that he considered to stand upon irrefutable ground ; but whether the sugar encountered in the liver after death was a natural representation of the condition during life , or was only the result of a , post mortem occurrence .
He had noticed as early as February 1854 , that the blood removed by catheterism of the right ventricle during life , was almost completely destitute of saccharine impregnation .
The observation did not then , however , receive the attention it deserved ; but on repeating the experiment at a later period , and meeting with a similar result , an investigation was made which has led to the conclusions advanced in his communication .
From upwards of sixty observations , it is asserted that the con(lition of the blood after death can no longer be taken as indicating its state during life .
For , if blood be withdrawn from the right ventricle of the living animal in a natural or tranquil state , there is scarcely an appreciable amount of sugar to be discovered , whilst , if the animal be afterwards sacrificed and blood collected from a fine incision of the ventricle , it will be found to present a strong indication of the presence of sugar .
In one of the experiments quoted , there was a barely appreciable reaction in the blood removed during life , and nearly 1 per cent of sugar in the blood collected after death , the animal having been sacrificed immediately after catheterism has been performed .
Observing this striking contrast in the blood abstracted from the right ventricle before and after death , the possibility occurred that there might be a corresponding contrast in the organ that was considered to be specially endowed with a sugar-forming function .
The recent researches of Bernard had taught us that a material naturally existed in the liver which was extremely susceptible of conversion into sugar .
It was this material , in fact , which was looked upon as 301 giving rise to the sngar thought to be largely present in the liver during life .
At the outset of the inquiry , an agent was sought for which would check the transformation of the sugar-forming material after death , and thus present the liver in a condition as near as possible to that which existed during life .
Potash was found to possess this effect without destroying the principles concerned .
A strong solution of it was then injected , as instantly after death as practicable , through the portal vein into the liver ; and , as the result , the organ presented scarcely any appreciable trace of the presence of sugar .
A liver similarly treated when it had been allowed to remain a short period after death , gave the usual strong reaction of sugar that has been hitherto noticed .
By injecting only a part of the organ with the alkali , it is most strikingly susceptible of demonstration , that the presence of sugar is in reality due to a post mortem occurrence , and can therefore be no longer looked upon as a representation of the natural ante mortemn condition .
The sudden abstraction of heat from the liver instantly after death , leads to a similar arrest of the production of sugar , and thus enables us likewise to represent the real condition of the organ belonging to life .
In one of the experiments mentioned , where a dog was sacrificed , and a piece of the liver instantly sliced off and thrown into a freezing mixture of ice and salt , the absence of sugar was almost complete ; the amount at least was so small , that it was found impossible to arrive at a quantitative determination with a concentrated spirituous extract , notwithstanding the process is susceptible of so great a delicacy .
The portion of the liver which was not submitted to the action of cold , and which was allowed to remain a short time in the animal , yielded on analysis an indication of 2 96 per cent. of sugar .
Division of the spinal cord in the lower part of the cervical region , the effects of which have been noticed by Bernard , but differently interpreted , leads to a corroboration of the deductions drawn from the preceding experiments .
When the weather is cold or moderate , the operation is followed by a gradual reduction of temperature ; and if the animal be sacrificed when its body has cooled down to about 70 ?
, the liver is found free from sugar , upon an ordinary immediate examination , because at such a degree the post mortem transformation is not effected with sufficient rapidity to lead to our deception .
302 Placed aside , however , it soon becomes strongly saccharine .
Should the operation of division of the cord be performed , and the temperature of the animal be afterwards maintained at about the ordinary height by exposure to external warmth , then the liver is as strongly saccharine upon ordinary examination after death , as if the animal had been taken and simply sacrificed .
By oiling the coats of rabbits and exposing them to cold , the temperature of the body falls , and precisely the same phenomena are noticed as after division of the cord .
With frogs in a vigorous condition , the presence or absence of sugar in the liver submitted to the ordinary process of examination after death , is dependent upon the temperature of the animal at the time of the destruction of life .
This fact was independently noticed by myself about the time that it was mentioned by Bernard in a communication to the Parisian Academy of Sciences .
Bernard 's interpretation of it is connected with the relative activity of the abdominal circulation ; but , for myself , I bring it forward as strongly supporting the views that have been advanced , and consider it to be explained by the influence of temperature on the post mortem production of sugar .
The material which occasions the presence of sugar in the dead liver , has been called by Bernard " Glucogenic matter , " -a term which , being only specially applicable after death , it is suggested should be abandoned , and replaced by Hepatine .
The amount of hepatine in the liver of the dog is much greater under a vegetable than an animal diet .
The amount is also increased by mixing sugar with animal food .
From the examples given , it is shown likewise that the relative weight of the liver presents a proportionate variation , according to the quantity of hepatine present .
In eleven dogs taken indiscriminately , that had been restricted to an animal diet , the weight of the liver was one-thirtieth that of the animal .
The average per-centage of hepatine yielded by eight livers , also taken indiscriminately after an animal diet , was 6-97 .
Five instances have been collected of dogs restricted to a vegetable diet for some days prior to death .
The average weight of the liver was one-fifteenth that of the animal .
In only three of the examples was the actual amount of hepatine determined , but in the other two it was noticed to be exceedingly large .
The average given by the 303 three was 17'23 per cent. Four dogs were placed upon an animal diet , and about a quarter of a pound of ordinary cane-sugar administered daily for a short period .
The average weight given by the four livers was one-sixteenth and a half that of the animal , and the average amount of hepatine yielded was 14'5 per cent. The natural destination of hepatine in the living body remains to be determined .
It has also to be shown how it resists transformation into sugar during life , when it is sso rapidly changed at an elevated temperature immediately after death .
A possible analogy may be presented by the following occurrence:-When a solution of hepatine , in a neutral state , is placed in contact with saliva , an almost instantaneous transformation into sugar takes place ; but if a little acid alkali or carbonated alkali be added , scarcely a trace of change is for some time discoverable .
Under normal circumstances , rarely an appreciable amount of sugar is encountered in the circulatory system-only , according to my analyses , from about '047 to '073 of a grain in 100 grains of defibrinated right-ventricular blood ; and this would appear to result rather from a simple escape of a small amount of hepatine from the tissue of the liver into the blood whilst circulating through the capillaries , than from a special functional operation of the organ ; for when a disturbance of the circulation , whether by congestion or the opposite , is occasioned , sugar makes its appearance to a considerable extent in the system , because the admixture of hepatine with the blood is favoured .
It can be easily shown by experiment , that on introducing hepatine into the circulatory system , a saccharine state of the blood is induced , and if enough have been employed , a strongly marked diabetic condition of urine is established , Sacrificing an animal and maintaining the circulation by performing artificial respiration , occasions a well-marked diabetes .
With the destruction of life , the transformation of hepatine into sugar takes place , and this , being cairied away by the blood , is eliminated by the kidneys , and thus renders the urine strongly saccharine .
Many phenomena which were before obscurely explained , receive a lucid interpretation from the new facts which have now been brought to light ,

