221 Proceedings and List Papers read .
Is the efficiency of the afferent root as an excitor of reflexes influenced by distal severance of it ?
Double conduction in the central nervous system ; information as to the connections of the long ascending fibres of the dorsal columns .
The locus of incidence of areal induction in the synapse .
A particular case in regard to the relation between afferent and efferent neui'ons is offered by the eye-muscles .
The source of tonus of the eye-muscles .
The importance of afferent roots to muscular activity .
The distinction between anaesthesia and apaesthesia .
The question of the independent excitability of the motor neuron .
April 8 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Production of X Rays of different Penetrative Values .
" By A. A. C. Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. II .
" Photographic Spectra of Stars to the 3| Magnitude .
" By F. McClean , F.R.S. III .
" Condensation of Water Vapour in the Presence of Dust-free Air and other Gases .
" By C. T. R. Wilson , B.Sc. ( Viet .
) , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , of Sydney Sussex College , Clerk-Maxwell Student in the Dniversity of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. IV .
" Double ( Antidrome ) Conduction in the Central Nervous System .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of Physiology , University College , Liverpool .
V. " Further Note on the Sensory Nerves of Muscles .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of Physiology in University College , Liverpool .
VI .
" On the Breaking-up of Fat in the Alimentary Canal under Normal Circumstances and in the Absence of the Pancreas .
" By Vaughan Harley , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Professor of Pathological Chemistry , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Horsley , F.R.S. Mr. A. A. C. Swinton .
VII .
" On the Application of Harmonic Analysis to the Dynamical Theory of the Tides .
Part I. On Laplace 's ' Oscillations of the First Species , ' and on the Dynamics of Ocean Currents .
" By S. S. Hough , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College and Isaac Newton Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. VIII .
" On Boomerangs .
" By G. T. Walker , M.A. , B.Sc. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. IX .
" Cathode and Lenard Bays .
" By J. A. McClelland , M.A , Junior Fellow B.U.I. Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.B.S. X. " On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks.\#151 ; On Cheirostrobus , a new Type of Fossil Cone from the Lower Carboniferous Strata ( Calciferous Sandstone Series ) .
" By Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. \#171 ; The Production of X Rays of Different Penetrative Values .
" By A. A. 0 .
Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received March 24 , \#151 ; Read April 8 , 1897 .
As is well known , if the X rays coming from an ordinary Crookes tube of the Jackson focus type be observed with a fluorescent screen during the process of exhaustion , the penetrative value of the rays is found to change as the exhaustion proceeds .
First of all , at less than a certain degree of vacuum , no X rays are produced .
Next , as the vacuum is increased , X rays commence to show themselves , but of a quality that will do little more than penetrate the backing of the screen .
As the vacuum is further increased , the rays become more penetrative , and show the shadow of the bones in the hand .
As exhaustion proceeds further , a point is reached when the flesh of the hand seems to be almost completely transparent , while the bones are almost entirely opaque .
At higher vacua than this , the bones becoming more and more transparent , the contrast between bones and flesh becomes less and less , till at length , at the very highest vacuum at which the discharge will pass , the bones scarcely show at all , owing to their having become nearly as transparent as the flesh , while the whole hand throws but a very faint shadow on the screen .
Similarly , it is found that , at any given degree of vacuum , the penetrative value of the X rays is increased by increasing the power

