358 Drs. S. Martin and D. Williams .
[ Feb. 21 , February 21 , 1889 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Influence of Bile on the Digestion of Starch .
I.\#151 ; Its Influence on Pancreatic Digestion in the Pig .
" By Sidney Martin , M.D. ( Lond. ) , B.Sc. , British Medical Association Scholar , and Assistant Physician to the City of London Hospital for Diseases of the Chest , Victoria Park , and Dawson Williams , M.D. ( Loud .
) , Assistant Physician to the East London Hospital for Children , Shadwell .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( from the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London ) .
Received February 1 , 1889 .
The object of the research is to ascertain what influence , if any , the presence of bile or its constituents has on the progress and result of pancreatic digestion ; it includes the investigation of any such influence on the amylolytic , the proteolytic ; and the emulsive ferments .
The present communication deals only with the first named ; our experiments have been done chiefly with the pancreas and bile of the pig , but another series in which these secretions in other animals are being examined is in progress ; the effect of the presence of bile on all amylolytic digestion , ex. gr. , that of saliva and that of vegetable diastase , is a subject whioh also seems to be worthy of investigation , and is now receiving our attention .
In the present communication we detail the result of our experiments with the bile and pancreatic amylolytic ferment of one animal only\#151 ; the pig .
The fluid to be digested has been made by boiling pure starch in distilled water and carefully neutralising if necessary .
Starch 2 grams , water 100 c.c. , has been found a convenient strength .
Pi ?
8 bile has been used either in the fresh state or after careful drying at a temperature not exceeding 27 ' 0 .
In the later form it was found more convenient for preserving and for manipulation , as it could be accurately weighed .
Glycerine extract of fresh pig 's pancreas , and 1889 .
] The Influence of Bile on the Digestion of Starch .
359 a commercial pancreatin made from pig 's pancreas , and ascertained to be rich in the amylolytic ferment , have been used .
Our earliest experiments indicated that bile had a very notable influence on the pancreatic digestion of starch ; it caused a rapid disappearance of the blue reaction of starch with iodine .
Experiment A.\#151 ; Five tubes , a , b , c , d , e , each containing 50 c.c. of the starch mixture ( 2 per cent. ) .
With 2'0 c.c. and with d and e 8'0 c.c. fresh pig 's bile were thoroughly mixed .
Equal quantities of glycerine extract of pig 's pancreas were then simultaneously added to b , c , and d , and all five tubes were placed in a water-bath at 33 ' 0 .
The colour reaction of solution of iodine with the two control tubes\#151 ; a which contained the starch mixture alone , and e which contained the starch mixture and bile ( 8 c.c.)\#151 ; remained unaltered throughout the experiment .
The changed colour reaction in the other tubes was watched by mixing a drop of the mixture with iodine solution on a white porcelain plate .
The .
blue reaction in d rapidly disappeared , being replaced in less than one minute by a purple and in two minutes by a red colour ; the red colour became gradually fainter and had entirely disappeared in ten minutes .
In and c the blue reaction disappeared more slowly , a purple colour being still obtained at the end of ten minutes ; no difference was perceptible in this respect between b and c , a fact which indicates that the amount of bile present must exceed the proportion added to c before any accelerating influence was noticeable .
By using weighed quantities of the dried bile it was proved that a larger proportion of bile caused the blue reaction with iodine to disappear more rapidly than a small proportion .
Experiment B.\#151 ; Four vessels , a , b , d , e , containing the starch mixture 2 per cent. To b 0'6 per cent , dried pig 's bile , to d and e 3 per cent , dried pig 's bile were added and dissolved ; to a , b , and d equal quantities of glycerine extract of pig s pancreas were added , and all the vessels were placed in a water-bath at 33 ' C. ; ceased to give any colour reaction with iodine solution in five minutes ; at the same moment the reaction given by b was reddish-purple , and by a purple ; e remained unchanged .
This increase of rapidity with increasing proportion of bile was found to hold up to 4 per cent , of dried bile ( equivalent probably to at least 30 per cent , fresh bile ) .
Beyond this percentage we have llot made experiments ; a larger proportion of bile rendered the mixture very thick and interfered with the colour reaction .
It was also ascertained that the amount of sugar , estimated as ext rose , formed under the conditions of Experiments A and B , was greater when bile was present , and increased when the proportion of blle wa'S increased .
xperiment Q , \#151 ; Four vessels , a , , c , d , containing the starch 360 Dfs .
S. Martin and T ) .
Williams .
[ Feb. 21 mixture 2 per cent. To b 0*6 per cent , dried pig 's bile , and to c and d 2 per cent , dried pig 's bile were added and dissolved ; to 6 , and c equal quantities of glycerine extract of pig 's pancreas were added and all the vessels were placed in a water-bath at 34 ' C. The colour reaction with iodine given by d was unchanged throughout , but , b , and c gave a varying colour reaction , and changing most rapidly with c and least rapidly with a. After remaining in the water-bath for eight minutes the vessels were taken out and their contents boiled , to destroy the ferment , and the amount of dextrose estimated by Feh ling 's method ; a contained 0*45 per cent. , b 0*59 per cent. , and c 0'74 per cent. A large number of experiments were performed of which the above are quoted as examples , and the conclusion to which we were led was that digestion of starch by extract of pig 's pancreas was hastened in the presence of pig 's bile .
We next sought to ascertain ( 1 ) whether this was a property of the bile solids as a whole , or of one or other constituent ; and ( 2 ) the nature of this hastening action , whether , that is to say , the bile only hastened the transformation of starch into dextrin , or whether there were also constant increase in the amount of sugar formed .
Firstly , as to whether the effect is to be ascribed to the action of any one constituent of the bile .
Pig 's bile contains bile salts ( chiefly hyoglycocholate of sodium* ) , ' bile pigment , cholesterin , soaps , and salts together with , mucin .
We found that an extract of dried bile made with absolute alcohol retained the power of hastening pancreatic digestion of starch , and finally that it was also possessed by the bile salts .
It was found in this case also that the amount of sugar estimated as dextrose was greater as the proportion of bile salts added to the mixture was increased up to 2 per cent. , beyond which our experiments have not gone .
Thus in one experiment the amount of sugar found after half an hour 's digestion ( a ) in a mixture to which 0*6 per cent , of bile salts had been added = 2*03 per cent. ; ( )in a mixture to which 2*0 per cent , of bile salts had been added = 1'2\#171 ; \gt ; per cent. ; and ( c ) in a mixture to which no bile salts had been added l'O per cent. ; a large amount of starch mixture was used in this experiment and 0'8 per cent , pancreatin added .
\gt ; Secondly , as to the nature of the process , whether the bile hastened the transformation of starch into dextrin , or whether there was also an increase in the amount of sugar ; this was found to be a somewhat difficult question to solve .
The quantitative estimation of a mixture of starch , dextrin , and sugar , or of dextrin and sugar was found to present many difficulties .
The amount of sugar was readily estimated * Jolin ( ' Zeits .
f. Physiol. Chemie , ' yol .
11 , p. 417 ) describes a* and j8-hyogly\#174 ; e* cholate .
a * \ \#187 ; .1 .
, 1889 .
] The Influence of Bile on the Digestion of Starch .
361 as dextrose by Fehling 's method , but we are unacquainted with any reagent which will effect the separation of dextrin from starch ; they can both , however , be precipitated by absolute alcohol .
We have made a quantitative estimation of the relative amounts of starch , dextrin , and sugar by the following method r two equal portions of the starch mixture , 2 per cent. , were digested with equal quantities of dried pig 's pancreatin , * rich in amylopsin , a certain proportion of bile salts ( made from pig 's bile ) having been previously added to one .
Digestion was allowed to proceed in the incubator until the reaction of starch with a solution of iodine had completely , or almost completely disappeared from the vessel to which bile salts had been added .
Both mixtures were then rapidly boiled to stop the action .
The digested mixture was then poured into a dialyser ( made of German sausage paper ) and dialysed in running water for four or five days , thymol being added to prevent decomposition ( which did not occur ) ; the dextrin , sugar , and most of the salts were thus dialysed away , and the total residue ( starch ) was estimated by evaporating the dialysed liquid to small bulk and filtering into alcohol .
The precipitate was caught on a filter , dried at 100 ' to 110 ' G. , and weighed .
The residue of undigested starch was thus estimated .
The proportional amounts of sugar and dextrin were estimated by dialysing the liquids digested under the same conditions as those just described , in distilled water for four days , decomposition being prevented by the daily adr dition of thymol .
Equal quantities of the two dialysates , the one containing sugar and dextrin , the other sugar , dextrin , and bile salts , were evaporated to small bulk , the sugar estimated as dextrose by Fehling 's solution , the dextrin by precipitating a measured quantity of each concentrated liquid by absolute alcohol , washing with absolute alcohol to remove bile salts , drying at 100 ' to 110 ' G. , and weighing .
The results are shown in the following experiments :\#151 ; Experiment D.\#151 ; To one of two flasks containing 200 e.c. of the starch mixture ( 2 per cent. ) 0'6 per cent , bile salts was added ; 0'8 per cent , pancreatin was then added to both flasks and the mixture digested at 38 ' C. for two minutes .
The flask containing bile salts then gave no reaction with iodine solution , while that which contained pancreatin alone gave a purple reaction .
Both fluids were then dialysed iucold distilled water for four days , decomposition being prevented by the daily addition of thymol .
Both dialysates , which were faintly acid and contained no starch , were then evaporated to small bulk , and each divided into two parts for the estimation of sugar and dextrin respectively .
The former was estimated as dextrose by Fehling 's process , the latter by precipitating under absolute alcohol , filtering , ( tyittg at 100\#151 ; r-110 ' C. , and weighing .
The result was :\#151 ; * Prepared by Messrs. Savory and Moore .
Dr. J. R. Bradford .
[ Feb. 21 , Dextrin .
Sugar .
Fluid to which , bile salts had been added as well as pancreatin ... ... 0'30 gram .
1315 gram .
Fluid to which pancreatin only was added ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0-24168 " 1-042245 " The addition of bile salts therefore had increased the production of sugar in the proportion 5:4 , and that of dextrin in like pro-portion .
Experiment E.\#151 ; This experiment was conducted with the same proportion of each ingredient and in the same manner , with the exception that the fluids were dialysed in a stream of ( tap ) water ; the total residue , after evaporation and treatment with absolute alcohol in the manner previously described , was estimated by drying and weighing .
The residue in the fluid containing bile salts weighed 0"314 gram , in the fluid to which pancreatin alone was added , it weighed 0*517 gram .
These residues contained starch and a trace of peptone , but no bile salts nor sugar .
Our conclusions may thus be briefly stated:\#151 ; The effect of fresh and dried bile in hastening the pancreatic digestion of starch in the pig is due to the bile salts ; these salts possess the power of increasing the amount not only of dextrin , but of sugar estimated as dextrose .
The authors are not at present in a position to explain this influence of bile salts ; the pancreatic solution of starch proceeds more rapidly at first in laboratory experiments , and the retardation after a short interval is very marked .
It is possible that the bite salts may favour its continuance by entering into combination with the bodies which have this retarding effect .
II .
" The Innervation of the Renal Blood-vessels .
" By J. Rose Bradford , M.B. , D.Sc .
, George Henry Lewes Student .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( from the Physiological Laboratory of University College , London ) .
R\#174 ; * ceived February 1 , 1889 .
The following work was undertaken in order to map out the origin , course , and nature of the renal nerves more accurately than had hitherto been attempted .
It was considered ( more especially in the light of Gaskell 's well-known work on the sympathetic ) important to decide whether the renal and other abdominal vascular nerves were of two kinds , i.e. , vaso-constrictor and vaso-dilator , or whether the latter nerves could not be demonstrated to exist .
This research was carried out exclusively on the dog , inasmuch as this was the animal used by Gaskell in his work .

