I. " A Comparison between some of the simultaneous Records of the Barographs at Oxford and at Kew .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Kew Observatory .
Received March 4 , 1867 .
Through the kindness of the Rev. Robert Main , director of the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford , certain marked features of the curves produced by the barographs at Oxford and at Kew were compared together on four separate occasions in the year 1863 .
These comparisons are the more interesting that they were all made during squalls or storms ; for on such occasions it is found that the barograph curves exhibiting the height of the barometer from moment to moment present curious characteristic points , without which indeed no such comparisons could be made .
The result for these four occasions in 1863 was as follows:aDate G. M. T. w Oxford is before Nature of disturbance .
Oxford .
Kew .
e Oxrord .
Kew .
Sudden increase of pressure during squall of 30th October 1863 ... ... ... ... 2.30 P.M. 3.9 P.M.ยง 39 minutes Sudden increase of pressure ( probably ) .
during squall of 21st November 1863 ... ... ... .
4.0 P.M. 4.45 P.M. 45 minutes .
Peculiar points in the curves of December 3 , 1863 ( a 2.40 A.M. 3.35 A.M. 55 minutes .
stormy day ) ... ... ... ... 6.50 A.M. 7.40 A.M. 50 minutes .
Mr. Main has kindly called my attention to a well-marked minimum in the Oxford curve for February 6 , 1867 , which was also a stormy day .
This minimum occurred at Oxford at 2.20 A.M. of that day , while at Kew it did not occur until 3.15 A.M. Oxford was thus on this occasion 55 minutes before Kew .
The peculiarity of this last occasion is the singular likeness between the two curves .
I have not compared together any other features of these curves , nor perhaps could this be done with exactness ; but the general impression is that the changes of pressure at Oxford were followed by similar changes at Kew , only nearly an hour later .
It is premature ( until we obtain more information ) to enter into a discussion of the rate of progress of storms ; but we are quite justified in considering the barograph an instrument extremely well adapted to extend our knowledge of atmospheric disturbances .
We see that on those very occasions when this knowledge is most interesting the barograph comes forward to our assistance , and presents us with results which could not possibly be obtained otherwise than by a system of continuous registration .
It does not , however , follow that , while a continuous record is by far the best , other records are of no value ; for should an observer be placed beside an ordinary barometer during the crisis of a storm , observations made in rapid succession and accurately timed would be of very great assistance .
Such an observer would in fact produce approximately a record similar in kind to that of a barograph , although inferior in value .
It ought here to be noticed that two stations are not enough to enable us to determine either the direction in which an atmospheric disturbance is propagated or the rate of propagation .
It is only on the improbable supposition that all such disturbances travel in a direct line from Oxford to Kew that barographs at these two places might be deemed enough .
In order to obtain the greatest amount of information which such instruments are capable of affording , it is evidently necessary to multiply our stations and to distribute them judiciously over the surface of the country .
Nor is it desirable to confine ourselves to one meteorological element , but the barograph should be accompanied by a thermograph and a self-registering anemometer .
As this is the system about to be pursued by the Board of Trade in their chief meteorological stations in the British Isles , we may reasonably hope that before long we may by this means receive a large accession to our knowledge of the laws which regulate atmospheric disturbances .

