322 The Effects of Different Gases on the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
By Frank Horton , Se .
D. , Professor of Physics in the University of London .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received March 4 , 1915 .
) The original theory of the origin of the electron emission from glowing solids , which is based on the electron theory of metallic conduction , has recently been subjected to criticism on account of the manner in which the emission can be reduced by continually removing impurities from the discharge tube .
The critics maintain that the emission occurs as a result of chemical action between the hot cathode and the surrounding gas , or between the constituents of the cathode itself .
In a recent paper* the author has summarised the evidence in favour of this latter view , and has described experiments which show that the results which it leads us to expect do not always occur .
In particular it has been shown that the chemical action theory of the origin of the activity of a Wehnelt cathode , as propounded by Fredenhagenf and by Gehrts , j cannot be accepted .
The experiments described in the present paper were designed to test further the theory that the electron emission is due to chemical action .
The experiments consisted in studying the ionisation produced by Nernst filaments heated in various gases , of different chemical affinities for the material of the cathode .
The apparatusS and method of experiment were similar to those described in the paper already referred to .
The filament was heated by an alternating current from a transformer , and its temperature was determined by means of a specially standardised Fery optical pyrometer which was kindly lent to me by Prof. T. Mather , of the City and Guilds Engineering College , London .
The anode consisted of two parallel platinum plates , fixed in the discharge tube at equal distances on opposite sides of the filament , and connected together outside the apparatus .
The potential difference applied to the ends of the filament was measured by a Siemens alternating voltmeter , which was used in series with a resistance of equal magnitude , the total resistance in parallel with the filament being 4572 ohms .
The junction of the voltmeter and series resistance was connected to earth , and thus the mid-point of * * * S * F. Horton , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 214 , p. 277 ( 1914 ) .
t K. Fredenhagen , 'Ber .
K. Sachs .
Ges .
Wiss .
, ' Leipzig , vol. 65 , p. 42 ( 1913 ) . .
X A. Gehrts , ' Ber .
d. Deutsch .
Phys. Ges .
, ' p. 1047 ( 1913 ) .
S The author is indebted to the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society for the means of purchasing some of the apparatus used in these experiments .
Effect of Gases on Electron Emission from Solids .
the glowiug filament was kept at zero potential .
The platinum plates forming the anode were connected through a delicate galvanometer to the positive pole of a high potential battery , the negative pole of which was earthed .
A diagrammatic view of the arrangements is given in fig. 1 , in which for simplicity the discharge tube is not shown .
The filaments experimented Fig. I.\#151 ; A , A , platinum anodes ( connected together ) ; B , battery ; C , C , heating current leads ; F , Nernst filament ; G , galvanometer ; Y , voltmeter ; S , series resistance .
with were all of the same type and were intended for use on a 100-volt alternating circuit .
The thermionic currents in air under similar conditions varied slightly for different filaments , but in every case the currents measured after heating for some time were remarkably constant .
In this respect the electron emission from a Nernst filament is very different from that obtained with a metal cathode , which usually decreases continuously with time .
Measurements of the thermionic currents in air , nitrogen , oxygen , and hydrogen were made .
In each case the variation of the current with the pressure of the gas under a constant applied potential difference was observed , and also the variation of the current with the potential difference with a constant gas pressure in the discharge tube .
The observations were usually made with the filament at a temperature of 1525 ' C. , but measurements were also made at other temperatures .
A difficulty in making comparisons of the thermionic currents in different gases , and at different pressures in the same gas , arises from the fact that , in Prof. F. Horton .
Effects of Different order to maintain the filament at a constant temperature , the heating current has to be altered at each change in the nature or density of the surrounding gas .
As the thermionic current is usually unsaturated , an alteration of the potential difference .between the ends of the filament causes an alteration in the current measured by the galvanometer .
For this reason the comparisons were generally made with a potential difference of 210 volts applied between the centre of the filament and the platinum anodes , this large potential difference being used so as to minimise the effect of the variations in the heating circuit .
Another difficulty occurred in the measurement of the temperature , for it was found that at very low pressures ( less than about 0-15 mm. ) the luminosity of the filament fell off , although the heating current was maintained steady .
It is thus possible that the thermionic currents measured at these low pressures are larger than they should be , on account of the temperature of the filament being greater than the value obtained from the reading of the optical pyrometer ; but I do not think this introduces a serious error , for the pyrometer measures the temperature by the intensity of the red rays only , and it was found that , if the heating current were kept constant , the intensity of the red rays hardly altered as the gas pressure was reduced from about 01 mm. , although the general luminosity of the filament decreased perceptibly .
A Xernst filament seems to require the presence of oxygen in order to emit a brilliant white light at high temperatures , for it was noticed that the luminosity was less , and that the filament appeared redder , when heated in nitrogen or hydrogen than when heated in the presence of oxygen to the same temperature as measured by the pyrometer .
In comparing the thermionic currents in air with those under similar circumstances in another gas , a series of observations in air was usually taken first .
The filament was fitted into the apparatus and left glowing for some time in air at the highest pressure to be used .
During this period the air in the apparatus was dried by the large phosphorus pentoxide drying tube connected to the discharge bulb , and the measured thermionic current gradually attained a steady value .
Even with a new filament , the thermionic current became constant after a few hours ' heating .
The pressure of the air in the apparatus was then gradually reduced , the temperature and applied potential difference being kept constant , and observations of the thermionic current at different pressures were taken .
The vacuum was finally made as complete as possible by means of charcoal cooled in liquid air , and then the other gas was gradually let into the apparatus , through two stopcocks , from a large glass flask , where it had been stored for many hours over phosphorus pentoxide .
Several filaments were used in the course of these experiments , and , as these gave slightly different thermionic currents under similar Gases on the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
325 conditions , it was necessary to make a series of experiments in air in connection with each series of observations in another gas .
The results will therefore all be given in the form of a comparison of the ionisation produced in air with that produced in the second gas .
I. The Ionisation Nitrogen .
The current-pressure curves for air and for nitrogen are shown in fig. 2 .
The filament was at a constant temperature of 1525 ' C. throughout the observations , and a potential difference of 212 volts was applied across the tube .
It will be seen that in both cases the maximum thermionic current fi 8o O 20 millimetres Pressure ; Fig. 2 .
was obtained at about 1*3 mm. pressure , and that at pressures below this the current was practically the same in the two gases , while at higher pressures the current in nitrogen was rather greater than that in air at the same pressure .
This is also shown by the current-E.M.F .
curves at different pressures in the two gases .
At very low pressures the curves were nearly identical , but at pressures of several millimetres the currents in nitrogen were always greater than those under similar conditions in air .
Fig. 3 shows these curves for the two gases at 48 mm. pressure .
Both with air and with nitrogen the current-E.M.F .
curves showed the usual characteristics , approximate saturation at very low pressures , and at pressures approaching atmospheric , with evidence of considerable ionisation Prof. F. Horton .
Effects of Different by collisions at intermediate pressures , as , for instance , is shown by the curves in fig. 3 .
It should be mentioned that all the currents measured with the particular filament used in this series of experiments were rather larger.than those o IOO zoo 300 400 Volbs Fig. 3 .
usually obtained , probably owing to some slight difference of composition of the filament .
II .
The Ionisation in Oxygen .
Ihe current-pressure curves obtained in oxygen were practically identical with those obtained with the same filament in air .
The pressure of maximum thermionic current was found to be about 1 mm.\#151 ; a little lower than that Gases on the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
327 measured with the filament used in the experiments with nitrogen .
The current-E.M.F .
curves were also very similar .
The equality of the currents measured at low pressures in the two gases may be judged from the following Table , which gives the galvanometer deflections for different applied potential differences , in air atOT61 mm. pressure and in oxygen at 0T48 mm. pressure , the temperature of the filament in both cases being 1525 ' C.:\#151 ; Potential difference ( volts ) .
Thermionic currents : ] L = 1 *40 x 10 8 ampere .
Air .
Oxygen .
43 48 51 86 79 84 129 102 118 172 129 146 258 189 199 344 245 255 430 310 316 In taking the observations for a current-E.M.F .
curve in any gas it was usually found that the currents measured with increasing electromotive forces were in each case slightly less than the currents measured under the same potential differences with decreasing electromotive forces .
This was the case during the observations recorded in the above Table , and the numbers given for the currents are the means of the " increasing E.M.F. " and the " decreasing E.M.F. " values .
III .
The Ionisation in Hydrogen .
The effect of hydrogen on the discharge of negative electricity from a glowing solid was first investigated by H. A. Wilson , * who experimented with a hot platinum wire and found that hydrogen produced a very large increase in the thermionic current , which , at low pressures , was nearly proportional to the pressure of the hydrogen .
From these results Wilson was led to the conclusion that the negative emission ordinarily observed from a platinum wire at a high temperature in air , or in a vacuum , was probably due to traces of hydrogen in the wire , and he showed that the thermionic current may be reduced to 1/ 250,000 of its ordinary value by taking precautions to remove such traces .
Further experiments , f however , convinced Prof. Wilson that the electron emission from glowing platinum is not entirely due to traces of hydrogen , but that the presence of this gas in the surface layers of the platinum assists the escape of electrons from the metal by diminishing the * H. A. Wilson , 4 Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 202 , p. 243 ( 1903 ) .
t H. A. Wilson , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 208 , p. 247 ( 1908 ) .
Prof. F. Horton .
Effects of Different work which an electron has to do in passing through the surface .
Other experimenters have , nevertheless , used the fact that the thermionic current can be increased by the presence of hydrogen , as an argument in favour of the view that the electron emission from glowing solids is purely the result of chemical action between the cathode and impurities present in it , or gases surrounding it\#151 ; that the electrons are liberated by chemical action and are not simply escaping from the cathode at the high temperature .
The main object of the experiments recorded in the present paper was to investigate the electron emission from a Nernst filament in hydrogen , and to compare it with the emission in other gases .
Many more experiments were , therefore , made in hydrogen than in oxygen or nitrogen , and the thermionic currents from several filaments in this gas , under different conditions , were very thoroughly investigated .
It is clear that the possibilities of chemical action with a Nernst filament ( consisting of a mixture of oxides ) at a high temperature are much greater when the gas in the apparatus is hydrogen than when oxygen , nitrogen , or air are used .
If the emission of electrons is due to chemical action , it would seem reasonable to expect a much larger emission from the filament in hydrogen than under similar conditions in other gases .
But the results of the experiments given below show that the emission in hydrogen is not greater than the emission in air , although at certain pressures the thermionic current is enormously increased by the ionisation of the hydrogen molecules by collisions .
The increase in the current due to this cause in hydrogen is very much greater than the corresponding increase in air , oxygen , or nitrogen .
The curves given in fig. 4 show the alteration with gas pressure of the thermionic current from a filament at 1525 ' C. in air and in hydrogen , the currents measured in the latter gas being plotted to one-hundredth the scale of those in air .
It will be seen that the pressure of maximum conductivity in hydrogen is about 8-5 times the pressure of maximum conductivity in air .
On the theory of ionisation by collisions the pressure at which the current attains a maximum value is proportional to the electric force .
A series of observations with the filament at 1525 ' C. in air showed that the pressure of maximum thermionic current was roughly proportional to the potential difference applied from the cells for voltages of 200 and 250 .
The voltage applied from the cells is , however , only a measure of the potential difference between the centre of the filament and the anodes .
The potential at other points of the filament is different from that at the centre owing to the fall of potential along the heating circuit .
In hydrogen the heating current required to maintain a temperature of 1525 ' C. is much greater than in air , and it increases considerably as the pressure of the hydrogen is increased .
The Gases on the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
329 lectric field , due to the heating current is therefore by no means constant luring a series of experiments at different gas pressures , and it is very lifferent in hydrogen at 12 mm. pressure and in air at 1*4 mm. pressure .
It s thus probable that the pressure of maximum thermionic current in hydrogen is shown in the curve is considerably higher than it would be if the electric field were the same as in the case of air .
It follows from the theory of ionisation by collisions that with a given uniform field the pressure of maximum current in hydrogen is about three times the corresponding pressure in air , oxygen , or nitrogen .
In the present experiments the io Pressure , \#151 ; millimetres Fig. 4 .
electric field is not uniform , and it alters when the heating current is adjusted at each change of pressure , so that we should not expect this ratio to be obtained , although the general form of the curves indicates that the variations in the thermionic current with gas pressure are due to ionisation by collisions .
Several series of experiments made with different filaments in hydrogen and in air gave pressures of maximum conductivity in the former gas ranging from 8 0 to 9*5 times the pressure of maximum conductivity in air .
To give some idea of the manner in which the field due to the heating current varied it may be mentioned that , with the filament at 1525 ' C. , and with air in the apparatus , the potential difference 330 Prof. F. Horton .
Effects of Different between the ends of the filament ranged from 74 to 66 volts as the pressure was reduced from about 40 mm. to zero ; while in hydrogen the corresponding alteration was from 128 to 66 volts .
In order to compare the electron emissions in air and in hydrogen it is necessary to prevent , as far as possible , the original emission from being altogether swamped by the new ions formed by collisions .
It was not possible to prevent ionisation by collisions altogether , for it was necessary to have some gas present in the discharge tube , and it was found that the field due to the heating current alone was sufficient to cause this ionisation ; but the effects of ionisation by collisions are not large if the experiments are made at low pressures\#151 ; at pressures well below those of the maxima shown in the curves of fig. 4 .
A series of observations of the thermionic currents in air and in hydrogen with various applied potential differences , and at pressures up to 0*2 mm. , was therefore made .
Fig. 5 shows currentO IOO 200 300 400 500 Volbs Fig. 5 .
E.M.F. curves for air and for hydrogen at 0*17 mm. pressure , the temperature of the filament being 1525 ' C. in both cases .
From these curves it will be seen that the thermionic current is nearly the same in the two gases .
With 400 volts the current in hydrogen appears to be saturated , whereas that in air is approximately obeying Ofim 's law .
A similar result is shown in fig. 6 for hydrogen at 0*099 mm. and for air at 0 110 mm. The experiments for the curves in fig. 6 were made with a different apparatus from that used in obtaining the results of fig. 5 , the distance apart of the electrodes being rather greater .
Fig. 6 also contains Gases on the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
331 curves for hydrogen and for air at 0*040 mm. pressure , under which conditions the currents in the two gases are still more nearly equal .
At this lower pressure the effects of gas ionisation are no doubt smaller , for not only are fewer collisions possible , but also the electric field is more nearly the same in the two gases , as the heating currents required to maintain the same temperature in the filament are not very different .
These curves , and others which I have obtained , show that at low pressures saturation is more easily attained in hydrogen than in air , oxygen , or nitrogen ; a result which is accounted for by the fact that the mean free path of the ion in hydrogen is greater than it is in air , oxygen , or nitrogen , and so becomes comparable with the distance between the electrodes at a higher pressure than in the case of these other gases .
The curves clearly indicate that if ionisation by collisions could be completely eliminated , the electron emission from the filament would be found to be the same in hydrogen as it is in air .
1Y .
A Comparison of the Electron Emission from Lime Heated on a Nernst Filament in Air and in Hydrogen .
In the course of an earlier research* the author found that the thermionic current from a lime-covered platinum strip heated in pure helium at about 3 mm. pressure was enormously increased if a small quantity of hydrogen was allowed to enter the discharge tube .
Since the amount of hydrogen admitted was very small , it is probable that the increased current obtained is due to an * F. Horton , ' Phil. Trans./ A , vol. 207 , p. 149 ( 1907 ) .
Prof. F. Horton .
Effects of Different actual increase in the emission from the cathode , and is not merely the resul of ionisation of the hydrogen atoms by collisions .
It was also found that tb thermionic current in pure hydrogen at O'Ol mm. pressure was enormouslj greater than the current measured in air at the same pressure .
Recentlj Fredenhagen* has attempted to explain this effect from the point of view o : the chemical action theory of the emission of electrons from solids at high temperatures , by supposing that the hydrogen combines with the oxygen of the lime , and possibly also with the calcium , and that electrons are emitted : as a result of these chemical actions .
An obvious objection to this explanation is that it involves the rapid disappearance of the oxide layer , and consequently the cessation of the activity of the cathode\#151 ; results which do\#187 ; not occur in practice .
There is also the objection that , so far as the author is aware , there is no evidence that the chemical actions mentioned give rise to f an electron emission .
The experiments described in the present paper suggested that the increased emission from a lime-covered platinum cathode in hydrogen might i be due to the effect of the hydrogen on the emission from the platinum supporting the lime , so that if the lime were heated without the platinum support , its electron emission in hydrogen might perhaps be not very different from that in air .
In order to test this , a Nernst filament which had been found to give equal thermionic currents in air and in hydrogen at low pressures was covered with lime and was again tested in these gases .
The results of these tests will be seen from the curves given below .
Fig. 7 shows the current-pressure curves at 1525 ' 0 .
in air and in hydrogen .
It will be seen that at 100 mm. pressure the thermionic current in hydrogen was about 55 times the current in air , but the shape of the curve indicates that ionisation by collisions is already occurring at this pressure in hydrogen , whereas it is producing no noticeable effect in air ; moreover the potential difference between the ends of the filament at 100 mm. pressure was 136 volts in hydrogen and only 79 volts in air .
The alteration of the thermionic currents with pressure , at pressures below about 1 mm. , is shown in fig. 8 .
Ionisation by collisions takes place throughout this region of pressure , especially when a high potential difference is applied across the tube .
Both with air and with hydrogen there was a luminous discharge throughout the series of observations represented in fig. 8 .
At high pressures the discharge with a potential difference of 206 volts ( as in the curves of fig. 7 ) was not luminous , but the luminosity appeared on reducing the pressure to about 33 mm. with hydrogen , and to about 4 mm. with air .
In comparing these results in the two gases it must be borne in mind that * K. Fredenhagen , ' Physik .
Zeitschr .
, ' vol. 15 , p. 19 ( 1914 ) .
Gases on the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
333 apart from the effects of ionisation by collisions , there are two things which tend to make the currents measured in hydrogen greater than those measured IOO millimetres Fig. 7 .
in air .
One of these is the greater potential difference between the ends of the filament , due to the greater heating current required in hydrogen ; the other is the fact that the luminosity of the filament in hydrogen is less than Prof. F. Horton .
Effects of Different it is in air With the optical pyrometer , only the red light is used to measure the temperature , and I do not think that much error is made in adjusting the temperature with a low pressure of air or of hydrogen in the apparatus ; but at high pressures , where the difference of luminosity in the two gases is more marked , it is not unlikely that a higher temperature of the filament is required in hydrogen to give the same intensity of red light as is obtained with the filament at 1525 ' C. in air .
It is probably for these reasons that the ratio of the thermionic currents in the two gases was found to increase at high pressures .
At atmospheric pressure the current in o*5 i-c Pressure. .
millimetres Fig. 8 .
hydrogen was about 400 times as large as the current measured in air under the same applied potential difference and at the same temperature as measured by the pyrometer .
Unfortunately , no other method of temperature measurement could be employed , for it was desired to have no metal in contact with the lime .
These experiments at atmospheric pressure can be compared with those of Martyn , * who found that the thermionic current from a lime-covered platinum wire at 1600 ' C. in hydrogen at atmospheric pressure was 20,000 times the current in air under similar conditions .
In Martyn 's experiment there was no uncertainty in the temperature adjustment , which * G. H. Martyn , 4 Phil. Mag. , ' VI , vol. 14 , p. 306 ( 1907 ) .
Gases on the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
335 was performed by measuring the resistance of the platinum wire .
It is therefore obvious that hydrogen increases the thermionic current from a lime-covered platinum cathode to a much greater extent than it does the current from a lime-covered Nernst filament .
That the electron emission from lime is practically the same in air and in hydrogen is perhaps best shown ( as in the case of the Nernst filament alone ) by current-E.M.F .
curves obtained at low pressures .
Two such curves are given in fig. 9 , the lower one being for air at 0'0103 mm. pressure , the upper one for hydrogen at 0 0121 mm. pressure .
During both sets of observations the gas in the discharge tube was very faintly luminous .
The luminosity O IOO 200 300 400 Volbs Fig. 9 .
was not sufficient to enable the spectra of the gases to be examined , but this was done before reducing the pressure in each case ; the air showed no sign of the hydrogen lines , and the spectrum of the hydrogen showed that the gas was pure .
To illustrate the striking difference between these results and the effect of hydrogen on the thermionic current from a lime-covered platinum strip , an experiment described in an earlier paper* may be quoted .
The thermionic current from a lime-covered platinum cathode was measured in oxygen gas at 0-002 mm. pressure .
This gas was pumped out and hydrogen was let into the apparatus , which was then pumped down to the same pressure as before .
On warming up the cathode the thermionic current was at first only slightly greater than its previous value , but it rapidly increased until in a few minutes it was over 10,000 times as great as it had been in oxygen at the same temperature ( 740 ' C. ) .
In view of the results of the experiments described * F. Horton , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 207 , p. 149 ( 1907 ) .
VOL. XCI.\#151 ; A. 336 Effect of Gases on Electron Emission from Solids .
in the present paper , this increase in the thermionic current is probably entirely due to the effect of the hydrogen upon the platinum .
In the first observation , in oxygen , the platinum was quite free from hydrogen .
It had been boiled for a long time in strong nitric acid before being covered with lime , and the cathode had been heated in oxygen at a considerable pressure for hours before the final readings at 0*002 mm. were taken .
When hydrogen is let into the apparatus it is only very slowly absorbed by the platinum when that is cold , but as the temperature is raised the absorption rapidly increases .
This probably accounts for the increasing thermionic current which was observed in the experiment .
Summary and Conclusion .
The experiments described have shown that the emission of electrons from a glowing Nernst filament is independent of the nature of the gas in the discharge tube , at least for the gases air , oxygen , nitrogen , and hydrogen , and that the same may be said of the electron emission from lime .
At low pressures the thermionic current from a given cathode under definite conditions is practically identical in all four gases .
At higher pressures the thermionic currents under similar conditions vary , but an increased thermionic current does not necessarily mean an increased electron emission from the cathode ; the large currents which are obtained at certain gas pressures , particularly with hydrogen , are the- result of ionisation of the gas molecules by collisions .
Oxygen and hydrogen differ very widely in their chemical affinities for the material of an oxide cathode , so that the equality of the electron emission in these two gases is evidence that the electrons are not produced by chemical action between the cathode and the surrounding gas .
In the case of a platinum cathode , hydrogen seems to produce a genuine increased emission , which appears to be brought about by the absorption of the gas by the platinum .
This result was first obtained by H. A. Wilson , * who , by means of a careful investigation of the connection between the thermionic current and the gas pressure , was able to establish the fact that the hydrogen dissolves in the platinum and does not , under ordinary circumstances , combine with it to form a compound .
It is improbable , therefore , that the increased emission from platinum produced by hydrogen is due to chemical action .
The exact manner in which the hydrogen acts is at present unknown , but Wilson has shown that the experimental results can be explained on the supposition that the hydrogen atoms in the surface layers * H. A. Wilson , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 208 , p. 247 ( 1908 ) .
Corpuscular Radiation Liberated in Vapours .
337 of the platinum are positively charged and have the effect of lessening the work which an electron must do in order to escape from the metal .
With a substance like lime or the oxides of a Nernst filament , by which the hydrogen is not absorbed , the electron emission is unaltered by the presence of this gas .
On the Corpuscular Radiation Liberated in Vapours Homogeneous X-radiation .
By H. Moore , B.Sc. , A.R.C.S. , Assistant Lecturer in Physics at King 's College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. O. W. Richardson , F.R.S. Received March 22 , 1915 .
) It is recognised as a result of numerous independent experiments* that ionisation by X-rays is the result of corpuscular radiation liberated by the X-rays .
In a recent paperf it was shown by the author that , in the case of carbon and oxygen compounds , the corpuscular radiation liberated by a beam of X-radiation was an " atomic " phenomenon , i.e. that the number of corpuscles given out by an atom of carbon or oxygen in a beam of X-rays is the same whether the atom is in combination or not .
The resulting ionisation is not , however , " atomic , " the ionisation produced in different gases or vapours by a given amount of corpuscular radiation being dependent on the nature of the gas or vapour .
In the present paper an attempt has been made to test whether this " atomic " law holds good for other elements of higher atomic weight .
These , giving much larger ionisations than the lighter elements , also allow of greater accuracy in the observations , although as the absorption is correspondingly increased , large absorption corrections are rendered necessary in some cases .
As in the former experiments , the gases or vapours were subjected to a beam of homogeneous ( copper ) radiation , the ionisation chamber being a cylinder with aluminium ends , and containing an axial electrode connected with an electroscope .
The rate of leak due to the ionisation current was compared with that of a standard electroscope containing air , and after each * Barkla and Simons , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' February , 1912 ; C. T. R. Wilson , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June , 1912 ; Barkla and Philpot , ' Phil. Mag. , ' June , 1913 .
t 'Phil .
Mag. , ' January , 1914 .

