IV .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias.-No .
XXI .
On Paraniline .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 2 , 1862 .
In a short paper submitted to the Royal Society about a year ago * , I called attention to some of the by-products which are obtained in the manufacture of aniline upon a large scale , and more especially to toluylene-diamine , the primary diamine of the toluyl-series .
MM .
Collin and Coblenz , aniline manufacturers at Labriche , near St. Denis , Paris , to whose kindness I had been indebted for the material used in these researches , immediately after their publication transmitted to me with the utmost liberality a large quantity of basic oils boiling at temperatures higher than the boiling-point of aniline , which are separated from the pure aniline by rectification , and are known in the language of the laboratory as queues d'aniline .
The investigation of this complex mixture has been interrupted by numerous engagements arising from the International Exhibition ; and it was only within the last two months that I was enabled to resume the inquiry .
This inquiry is far from being finished ; but some of the results already obtained are sufficiently definite for publication .
Submitted to distillation , the queues d'aniline begin to boil at about 182 ?
, considerable quantities of pure aniline passing over ; the temperature gradually rises without any indication of a fixed boilingpoint , until it becomes necessary to remove the thermometer ; in fact the last bases are volatilized only at temperatures not very far short of a red heat .
By collecting separately what distils between 200 ?
and 220 ?
, and again what comes over between 270 ?
and 290 ?
, basic oils are obtained from which , by appropriate treatment , very considerable quantities , respectively , of toluylamine ( toluidine ) and toluylene-diamine may be separated .
The former of these bases more especially is obtained in so large a quantity from this source , that M. Eugen Sell , a young chemist working in my laboratory , was enabled to engage in a more minute investigation of this substance .
The bases which accompany the monamine and diamine of the toluyl-series being liquids , their separationis by no means easily accomplished .
Theory suggests that this mixture consists chiefly of the higher homologues of the toluyl-bases .
These substances being far more easily prepared from their pure hydrocarbons * , I have for the present refrained from entering very minutely into the examination of these oils .
The following remarks are therefore exclusively devoted to the fraction of the bases which boils at the highest temperature .
On collecting separately what comes over above 330 ?
, a brown , viscid , scarcely mobile liquid is obtained , which at the first glance appears to present scarcely sufficient interest for a more minute examination .
This liquid proved to be a mixture of several compounds .
Treated with dilute sulphuric acid it solidified into a semisolid crystalline mass , which by filtration separated into a crystalline sulphate almost insoluble in water , and a sulphate easily soluble , the base of which forms the subject of this communication .
Decomposed by means of caustic soda , this sulphate yielded a viscid basic oil , which after some days solidified into a semisolid crystalline mass .
This was purified from adhering oil by pressure between folds of bibulous paper , and crystallized first from water , and subsequently once or twice from boiling alcohol .
Long white silky needles were thus obtained easily soluble in alcohol and ether , difficultly soluble in water , fusible at 192 ?
, and boiling beyond the range of the mercurial thermometer , but distilling without decomposition .
When submitted to combustion , this substance was found to contain C , H7N , and thus to have exactly the same composition as aniline , from which it differs in all its properties .
I propose for this new compound the name of paraniline .
Paraniline forms a series of splendidly crystallized salts , the study of which proved that the above expression must be doubled , and that the true molecular value of this compound is represented by the formula C12 H14 N2 .
The molecule of paraniline is capable of fixing either one or two equivalents of acid .
The salts with one equivalent of acid are most readily obtained ; they are of a light yellow colour , and their solution exhibits in an unusual degree the phenomenon of green fluorescence .
From a solution in concentrated hydrochloric acid a beautiful hydrochlorate crystallizes in transparent yellow six-sided plates , containing at 100 ?
C12 14 N2 , 2H C1 +H 0 , which on treatment with water are immediately converted into yellow needles sparingly soluble in water , more soluble in alcohol , insoluble in ether , containing C1 , I1H N2 , 1 C1 + H2 0 at 100 ?
, and C12 H14 N2 , HC1 at 115 ? .
The platinum-salt crystallizes in yellow difficultly soluble needles , C12 H4 N , , HC1 , Pt C12 ( at 110 ?
) .
I have analysed only one nitrate , which crystallizes in short , yellowish , starlike-grouped needles , containing C12 H N2 , HNO3 , but two sulphates .
One of them is readily obtained by dissolving paraniline in dilute sulphuric acid , when spherical aggregates of small needles are separated , easily soluble in water , less soluble in alcohol , which have the composition C12H 1 N2 , 12 SO , .
Digested in aqueous solution for some time with an excess of paraniline , the sulphate just described assimilates a second equivalent of the base , a salt being formed very similar to the previous one , but containing after crystallization from alcohol 2(C2 , H4 N2 ) , H2 SO , .
What is the constitution of this diamine ?
For the decision of this question I must wait till MM .
Collin and Coblenz have kindly supplied me with a fresh quantity of their queues d'aniline .
As yet I have only ascertained that iodide of ethyl gives rise to the formation of two ethylated bases , viz. , Cl4 H1 N , = 12 H13 ( C2 H)N2 , the composition of which I have fixed by the analysis of the chloride , iodide , and platinum-salt , and C HI22 N2 , C12 H12 ( 0C H , ) , N , , of which I have only examined the platinum-salt .
The saline solutions of the ethylated bases are likewise remarkable for their fluorescent properties .
Chloride of benzoyl furnishes with paraniline small needles , insoluble in water but soluble in alcohol , of the formula C,9 H18 N , O=Cl2 H13(C7 H5 O)N2 .
Paraniline , it cannot be doubted , is the product of the action of heat upon aniline ; and its formation suggests the existence of a series of similar bodies , similarly related to the other ammonias , which the progress of science cannot fail to reveal .
Experiments made in search of these bodies have hitherto been rewarded only by partial success .
Nevertheless I have already succeeded in converting several ammonias into higher bases , and I intend to pursue the direction of research which is indicated by these results .
V. " Additional Observations on the Proximate Principles of the Lichens .
" By JOHN STENIIOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( See p. 263 .
) VI .
{ " Letter to Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. , containing Observations made at Malta on a Planetary Nebula .
" By WILLIAM LASSELL , F.R.S. ( See p. 269 .
)

