[ 173 ] VI .
On a newly discovered Extinct Ungulate Mammal from , Homalodontotherium Cunninghami .
By William Henky Flower , F.JR .
S. Received May 30 , \#151 ; Read June 19 , 1873 .
The tertiary deposits of the east coast of Patagonia , which yielded to the researches of Mr. Darwin and Admiral Sulivan such interesting and aberrant mammals as Macrau-chenia , Nesodon , and ' Toxodon , have again disclosed a new and remarkable form of extinct animal life .
The evidence upon which the existence of this new genus rests consists of a nearly complete set of teeth and some fragments of bone , discovered on the bank of the River Gallegos , by Dr. Robert O. Cunningham* , Naturalist to H.M.S. 'Nassau .
' during the voyage undertaken for the purpose of surveying in the Strait of Magellan and the west coast of Patagonia in the years 1866 , 1867 , 1868 , and 1869 .
The spot was visited in conformity with instructions received before leaving England , " to institute a search for a deposit of fossil bones discovered by Admiral Sulivan and the present Hydrographer of the Navy , Rear-Admiral G. H. Richards , about twenty years previously , and which Mr. Darwin , Professor Huxley , and other distinguished naturalists were anxious should be carefully examined"f .
The conditions under which the specimens were found will be best understood from the following additional extract from Dr. Cunningham 's narrative .
" Accordingly , joined . . . .
* .
by the steamer , which again took us in tow , we proceeded onwards till we arrived opposite the first deposit of fallen blocks at the foot of the cliffs .
The cutter was then anchored in the stream , while we pulled in towards the shore in the galley till she grounded , when we landed , armed with picks and geological hammers for our work .
After examining the first accumulation of blocks , and finding in the soft yellow sandstone of which certain of them were composed some small fragments of bone , we proceeded to walk along the beach , carefully examining the surface of the cliffs and the piles of fragments which occurred here and there at their base .
The height of the cliffs varied considerably , and the highest portions , averaging about 200 feet , extended for a distance of about ten miles , and were evidently undergoing a rapid process of disintegration , a perpetual shower of small pieces descending in many places , and numerous large masses being in process of detaching themselves from the parent bed .
They were principally composed of strata of hard clay ( sometimes almost homogeneous in its texture , and at others containing numerous rounded boulders ) ; soft yellow sandstone ; sandstone abounding in hard concretions ; and , lastly , a kind of conglomerate , resembling * Now Professor of Natural History in Queen 's College , Belfast .
t Notes on the Natural History of the Strait of Magellan and West Coast of Patagonia , 8vo , 1871 , p. 279 .
solidified , rather fine gravel .
The lowermost strata , as a rule , were formed of the sandstone with concretions ; the middle , of the soft yellow sandstone , which alone appeared to contain organic remains ; and the upper , of the gravelly conglomerate and hard clay .
Nearly the whole of the lower portion of the cliffs , as well as all the principal deposits of fallen blocks , were examined by us in the course of the walk , and we met with numerous small fragments of bone ; but very few specimens of any size or value occurred , and the generality of these were in such a state of decay as to crumble to pieces when we attempted , although with the utmost amount of care that we could bestow , to remove them from the surrounding mass .
To add to this , the matrix in which they were imbedded was so exceedingly soft as not to permit of being split in any given direction .
The first fossil of any size observed by us was a long bone , partially protruding from a mass , and dissolved into fragments in the course of my attempts to remove it .
At some distance from this a portion of what appeared to be the scapula of a small quadruped , with some vertebrse , occurred ; and further on one of the party ( Mr. Vereker ) directed my attention to a black piece of bone projecting from one side of a large block near its centre .
This , which was carefully removed at the expense of a large amount of labour , with a considerable amount of the matrix surrounding it , by three of the officers , to whose zeal in rendering me most valuable assistance in my work I shall ever feel deeply indebted , afterwards proved to be a most valuable specimen for on carefully removing more of the matrix when we returned to the ship , I found that it was the cranium of a quadruped of considerable size , with the dentition of both upper and lower jaws nearly complete .
As no other specimens of importance were discovered , we reembarked towards the close of the afternoon .
" The grey , soft , arenaceous matrix in which the specimens are embedded is very similar to that surrounding the remains of Ifesodon , found in the same locality by Admirals Sulivan and Richards about twenty years previously , but is less indurated and of a paler colour .
The exact geological age in both cases appears to be a matter of uncertainty ; but they are probably of earlier date than the superficial deposits in which Macrauclienia and Toxodon have been found .
The specimens were placed by Dr. Cunningham for identification and description into the hands of Professor Huxley , who , having unfortunately been preoccupied by other engagements , has kindly deputed to me the duty of presenting an account of them to the Society .
A brief mention was made of their existence in the Professor 's Presidential Address to the Geological Society for 1870* , where they are alluded to under the very appropriate generic designation of Homalodotherium , which , with a slight modification , I gladly adopt .
However perfect the skull of the animal might have appeared when first discovered on the banks of the Gallegos , nothing of it remained when the specimens came into my hands , except fragments of alveoli around the roots of the teeth and a considerable portion of the rami of the lower jaw .
The other specimens of bone received were in such a * Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society , vol. xxvi .
p. lvii .
EXTINCT UNGULATE MAMMAL FKOM PATAGONIA .
very fragmentary condition , owing to the friable nature both of the bone itself and the matrix , that they afford no satisfactory evidence of the structure or affinities of the animal ; on the other hand , the teeth are in a remarkably good state of preservation , and consist of the almost entire permanent series of an individual just arrived at maturity , and therefore in the best condition for affording such information as to the general characters of the animal as may be obtained from the dental structures of a single specimen .
The teeth that are missing are certain of the inferior incisors and the posterior upper true molars .
As nearly all the bone of the cranium had perished , and it has been necessary to adjust and cement the teeth artificially in place'* , the exact number that were present cannot be ascertained with absolute certainty ; but I have scarcely any doubt but that the animal possessed the complete typical number , forty-four , and that therefore four incisors are wanting from the lower jaw .
In the upper series there were certainly eleven on each side .
As in the specimens of from the same locality , they have acquired a very dark , almost black colour .
All the teeth nave crowns distinctly separated from the long and tapering roots , and with a well-marked cingulum around their base ; but as compared with most Ungulates having distinct crowns to the teeth , they are decidedly " hypsodont , " or long-crowned , contrasting especially in this respect with the early " brachyodont " forms , as Pcdceothe-rium , Anoplotherium , Dicliodon , Hyopotamus , \amp ; c. They are arranged in both jaws in a perfectly unbroken series , being , in fact , in some places ( especially at the antero-lateral region of the mouth , where gaps are so frequent in recent Ungulata ) so crowded as to be pressed out of the straight line and to overlap one another , as in the lower jaw of Nesodon The adaptation of the form of the teeth on both sides to this position , and the accurate adjustment of their contiguous surfaces , shows that it is a natural conformation .
They are , moreover , of very nearly even height throughout the series , and in their configuration present a remarkable and gradual transition from the first incisor to the last molar , easily traced in both jaws , and more even and regular than in any other known heterodont mammal .
Indeed it is only by the analogy of other forms that they can be separated into the groups , convenient for descriptive purposes , designated as incisors , canines , premolars , and molars .
They are therefore most instructive in throwing light upon the homology of the component parts of the different teeth throughout the series .
The enamelled surface , especially of the molars , is not smooth and polished , but covered with fine intersecting reticulations , surrounding shallow pits or depressions .
There is no distinct layer of coronal cement .
As the teeth are drawn in the accompanying figures of the exact natural size , I have not thought it necessary to give any detailed measurements of them .
Description of the upper teeth ( Plate XVI .
figs. 1 \amp ; 4).\#151 ; The incisors increase slightly in size from the first to the third .
Each has a single , long , tapering and slightly curved root , and at the base of the crown a well-marked cingulum , developing both on the outer and * This was done by Mr. E. T. Newton , Assistant to Professor Huxley , at the Royal School of Mines .
the inner surface into a thick crescentic ridge , slightly notched on the free projecting border .
The form of the crown of the first tooth ( i 1 ) cannot be accurately described , as it is altogether lost in the left side , and its anterior * half has been broken off on the right .
In the second tooth ( i 2 ) the outer surface of the crown , presents an irregular shape , as it consists of a vertical median convex ridge and a pair of lateral lamellar expansions of unequal extent , the posterior border of the tooth being much shorter than the anterior .
The distal free margin of the tooth is compressed and the apex rounded .
The base of the crown is nearly as thick from without inwards as from side to side .
The inner surface is hollowed near the cutting-margin , and has a considerable rounded tubercle at the base , so that the crown of the tooth may be described as consisting of an outer , trenchant , or principal ( ae ) , and an inner , blunt , or accessory cusp ( aic ) , separated by a groove .
The third incisor ( i 3 ) resembles the second in form , but the lateral lamellar expansions of the crown are somewhat more developed .
The canine tooth ( c ) only differs from the posterior incisor in being somewhat larger , and in trifling details of configuration .
The apex is rather more pointed and conical , being supported by a median vertical ridge , not only on the outer , but also on the concave inner surface of the crown : the inner tubercle is relatively smaller to the principal cusp ; the cingulum is much notched ; the postero-internal margin of the crown is flattened , as if by the pressure of the succeeding tooth , a character also seen , though to a less degree , in the incisors .
The first premolar ( jq 1 ) has only one root on the outer side of the tooth , and apparently a second one on the inner side .
It is displaced somewhat within the line of the teeth before and behind it .
The crown is shorter , broader , and less pointed than that of the canine , but its inner cusp or lobe is considerably more developed .
The second premolar ( p 2 ) assumes more the form of a true molar .
It has two outer roots ( anterior and posterior ) , and apparently a distinct root on the inner side .
The external wall of the crown is oblong , nearly twice as high as it is broad from before backward , with a strongly marked crescentic cingulum , delicately ridged and tubercu-lated .
Though the surface is in a general sense rounded or convex from before backwards , indications are seen upon it of two vertical ridges , with a concavity between them ; the anterior ridge is the most conspicuous and evidently corresponds with the single ridge developed in the preceding teeth .
As in the incisors , canine , and first premolar , there is an inner lobe , but it is developed to a greater degree , and its sloping free surface shows two strong ridges or columns , which converge as they approach the grinding-surface of the tooth .
These columns are separated from each other by a triangular depression , the base of which is crossed by the cingulum .
The anterior and posterior surfaces of the crown are flattened , and the cingulum is continued all round * To avoid confusion , in describing the incisors I apply the terms anterior and posterior to the parts corresponding to those occupying these positions in the molar series .
'f Outer " and " inner " always mean the labial and the lingual surfaces of the teeth respectively .
EXTINCT UNGULATE MAMMAL FROM PATAGONIA .
them , though developed to a much less extent than on the outer and inner faces of the crown .
The grinding-surface of the tooth is a rather irregular four-sided area , broader externally than within ; it is composed of a smoothly worn surface of dentine with a thin enamel margin , and is deeply excavated longitudinally , the outer and inner margins standing out prominently , especially the former .
Near the middle of this area , but rather towards the anterior and inner angle , is a very deep oval fossa , formed by an inflection of the enamel-covered outer surface of the tooth , extending in depth almost to the base of the crown , placed obliquely , the long axis of the oval directed from before backwards and inwards .
The enamel of the outer margin of this fossa is plicated .
The third and fourth premolars ( p3 and^\gt ; 4 ) are formed on exactly the same principle as the one just described .
They present respectively a slight increase in size , and the inner lobe of the crown becomes gradually rather broader , and its two pillars rather more widely separated from each other .
The fourth , in addition to the principal oval fossa , has a second smaller one behind and to the outer side of it .
All these teeth are wider from within outwards than from before backwards .
In the first true molar ( m 1 ) a considerable increase of the size of the crown takes place , especially in the antero-posterior extent .
It is , however , formed upon precisely the same pattern as the hinder premolars , but merely expanded in the direction just indicated .
Unfortunately only one of the upper true molars ( the first of the left side ) is preserved in a complete state , and that , as might be expected , is considerably worn .
There is also a broken first molar of the right side , and fragments of the second and third of the left .
The most perfect tooth has a subquadrate crown , with a broad , flattened , or slightly convex outer wall ( l ) , presenting several shallow vertical elevations and depressions .
The most marked ridge ( ae c ) is very near the anterior edge of the tooth , and corresponds with the anterior external ridge of the premolars , and with the principal cusp of the canine and incisor teeth .
The second and more posterior elevation ( pec ) is broader and far less salient .
The inner wall has its two columns or ridges ( a i c and p i c ) as in the premolars , and still somewhat converging as they approach the grinding-surface ; but they are wider apart and have a broad depression between them , which in the fragment of a nearly unworn more posterior tooth is seen to communicate with the central fossa .
This fossa in the first molar is reduced to a very narrow but deep chink ( m s ) , and there is no trace of the small second or posterior fossa of the last premolar .
The outer wall of the crown is connected with the internal pillars by anterior and posterior transverse ridges ( a r and p r ) , which pass one before and the other behind the median fossa or sinus .
The lower teeth ( figs. 2 \amp ; 3).\#151 ; Of the lower incisors but one pair are present ; and as the symphysial portion of the jaw has completely perished , it is impossible to say what may have been the original number ; but analogy would lead to the inference that there were three , as in the upper series .
The crown ( i 3 ) is of an elongated oval form , with sharp cutting-edges , a strongly developed cingulum , and on the inner surface , msteade of a tubercle separated by a groove from the outer cusp , there is a vertical ridge running from base to apex of the crown , rather nearer the anterior than the posterior edge of the tooth .
The canine ( c ) is of similar form to the incisor , but of larger size .
The first premolar ( p 1 ) is also formed on the same plan , e. with a smooth and rounded external surface , and the internal surface with an anterior and posterior depression , separated by a vertical ridge , and bounded below by the cingulum .
The second premolar ( p2 ) is wider from before backwards , the hinder part being more developed ; its external surface has a deep groove passing from near the posterior part of the base upwards and forwards , with a gentle sigmoid curve to the apex , dividing the surface into an anterior and posterior area , of which the anterior is the larger .
An indication of this groove exists in the first premolar of the right side .
The inner surface has the vertical ridge increased in thickness , and a smaller ridge behind which isolates the posterior concavity .
The cingulum is well developed and notched ; on the outer side it sends up a row of small prominences from its border .
The transition from the second premolar 2 ) to the first true molar ( 1 ) , through the third and fourth ( p3 and p 4 ) premolars , is very gradual , being effected , as in the upper teeth , chiefly by the lengthening out of the posterior part of the crown .
The first and second true molars are almost exactly alike , but the second is slightly the larger ; the difference in the appearance of their grinding-surface is simply the result of difference of wear .
They are elongated from before backwards and much compressed .
Their base is surrounded by a well-marked cingulum .
The outer surface is , generally speaking , flat , but divided by a shallow vertical groove into an anterior and posterior area , each convex from before backwards , the anterior being about half the width of the posterior .
The inner side is divided by a much deeper vertical groove running obliquely forwards as it penetrates the tooth so as nearly to meet the base of the external groove , and cutting the tooth into two lobes , each of which is further divided on the inner side by a much less marked depression andps ) .
In other words , the inner side of the tooth may be described as consisting of two columns ( a c and p ) , each of which doubtless terminated in conical cusps in the unworn tooth , separated by a deep oblique indent ( ws ) , and bounded before and behind by shallower indents ( as andjps ) , marking off anterior and posterior accessory columns ( at andptf ) at each extremity of the tooth .
The posterior tooth is unfortunately injured ; but the whole of the outer wall remains intact , with enough of the inner side to show that it is formed on precisely the same plan as the others ; but its hinder part is slightly more elongated and compressed , though without any additional lobe as in many Ungulates .
Comparison of the teeth and taxonomic inferences.\#151 ; There can be no doubt that the dental characters of Homalodontotherium warrant our placing it within the order Ungulata .
Whether Perissodactyle or Artiodactyle may be at first sight less obvious .
The evenness of height and unbroken continuity of the teeth is no test , as it is shared by the Artiodactyle Anoplotherium with the Perissodactyle Macrauchenia .
A better criterion is the character of the premolars as compared with the molars .
In every known ArtioEXTINCT UNGULATE MAMMAL EEOM PATAGONIA .
dactyle all the premolars , even the last , are structurely reduced , as compared with the true molars , so that a more or less obvious break in the continuity of the appearance of the teeth is seen between the last premolar and the first true molar .
On the other hand , in many Perissodactyles , including all the existing representatives of the group , several of the posterior premolars are very close repetitions of the true molars in structure and even size ; though it must be noted that this was not the case with the earliest known forms of the group , the Coryphodons , Lophiodons , and Hyracotheriums , and to a less extent the Pakeotheriums , which so far approximate to the Artiodactyles , or perhaps rather to a more generalized Ungulate type , of which no representatives have as yet been discovered .
The similarity of the structure of the premolars and true molars of removes it from the vicinity of all known Artiodactyles .
The special characters of the crowns of the molars of both jaws are yet more decisive ; they fall into neither the Bunodont nor the Selenodont division of that group , and , except remotely to the somewhat aberrant Anoplotherium , present no resemblance to any known type of Artiodactyle .
On the other hand , as will be shown , they approach the Perissodactyle genus Rhinoceros more closely than to any other known mammal .
In order to understand the nature and taxonomic value of this resemblance , a few preliminary remarks may be necessary .
As regards the upper molars , the essential character of the crown of Perissodactyle Ungulates , as is perhaps best exemplified in , is the presence of four principal cusps , arranged in pairs anterior ( see fig. 4 , ) and posterior ( pic and p e c ) , connected more or less by transverse ridges , also anterior and posterior r and p r).The outer cusps are joined together by an antero-posterior ridge , constituting the external wall or lamina ( l ) , but there is no corresponding inner wall connecting the inner cusps .
Between the two transverse ridges is a median sinus ( ms ) , bounded externally by the outer wall , but open on the inner side .
Behind the posterior transverse ridge is a smaller posterior sinus ( p s ) , opening on the posterior surface of the tooth , or only enclosed by the cingulum , and in front of the anterior transverse ridge is a similar but less important anterior sinus ( a s ) .
Furthermore , the transverse ridges are usually placed obliquely , their outer ends inclining forwards and running quite to the front edge of their respective external cusps , so that their posterior surface is more or less concave .
From this type there are three important deviations:\#151 ; I. That in which the outer wall is undeveloped , and the transverse ridges become the prominent features of the crown of the tooth , as in the Tapirs .
II .
That in which the free edge of the outer wall acquires a strongly zigzag or bicrescentic character , being deviated inwards opposite each of the principal outer cusps , and outwards at the anterior and posterior angles of the tooth and in the middle between the cusps , as in Palceotherium , the Horses , and apparently ( judging from Bravard 's figure of the worn molars* ) in Macrauchenia .
* Published in Burmeister 's ' Anales del Museo Publico de Puenos Aires/ vol. i. pi .
1 .
2 a 2 III .
That in which the outer wall is greatly developed , and in the main flat or smoothly convex , though with slight elevations and depressions , corresponding with those so regular and well marked in the last section .
lo this group ( including its various modifications ) and Ilomalodontothenum belong .
If a single upper molar of the last-mentioned form had only been discovered , it might almost have been referred to the genus Rhinoceros , using the term in a wide sense .
It would , however , have been found to differ from the most typical forms of that type in the more smooth and regular convexity of the outer wall , the fuller development of the cingulum , the more complete union of the two inner columns , which intercepts the floor of the inlet to the median sinus , the less oblique direction of the posterior transverse ridge and consequent smaller size of the posterior sinus , and the absence of the ridge projecting into the median sinus called " combing-plate .
" The crowns of the lower molars of Perissodactyle Ungulates may , as is well known , be also derived from the same type as the upper teeth , e. two principal transverse ridges connecting two pairs of cusps ; but there are only two fundamental modifications .
I. That in which this primitive form is retained , the ridges remaining transverse and unconnected with each other , as in the Lophiodons and Tapirs .
II .
That in which the ridges assume a crescentic form , their outer extremities curving forwards , so that the hinder ridge abuts against the external surface of the ridge in front of it .
This is the case in all the remaining animals of the group .
An unworn lower molar of a Rhinoceros has thus externally two convex areas separated by a vertical groove , and internally two principal sinuses ( see fig. 3 , as and ms ) corresponding to the projections externally .
The entrances to these sinuses are bordered by three conical pillars\#151 ; the first ( a t ) of comparatively little importance , representing the anterior talon of the Tapir 's tooth , the second ( ai c ) the largest , representing the antero-internal principal cusp , and the third ( p i c ) the postero-internal principal cusp .
It is the large size and complex character of the last two , in addition to the excessive vertical lengthening of the crown , which distinguishes the Horse 's lower molar from that of the Palceotherium and Rhinoceros .
On comparing a lower molar of Homalodontothe with an equally worn tooth of Rhinoceros , it will be seen that they are formed on precisely the same type .
The only important differences are that the outer surface of the former is rather more flattened , the posterior convex area is relatively more elongated , being produced backwards into a sort of heel { p t)separated by a groove ( p s ) on the inner side from the postero-internal column ( p i c ) , and , as in the upper teeth , the cingulum is more completely developed .
It differs from the regularly bicrescentic tooth of Palceotherium still more than from that of Rhinoceros or Macrauchenia ; while in the lateral compression and flattening , and the complexity of the posterior column , it shows a slight approximation towards The molar and premolar teeth of both upper and lower jaws thus without question show strongly marked Rhinocerotic characters ; but on passing to the examination of the canines and incisors the resemblance completely fails , at least to the true RhinoEXTINCT UNGULATE MAMMAL EEOM PATAGONIA .
ceroses , as all the latter have these teeth either quite rudimentary and deciduous , or , when functionally developed , greatly reduced in number and separated from the molars by a wide diastema .
There is , however , an American genus from the Lower Miocene of Dakota , to which Leidy has given the name of , which , as proved by the sockets in the alveolar border , possessed the full complement of incisors and canines as in Ilomalodontotherium* .
Unfortunately the characters of these teeth are at present imperfectly known ; but they appear to have been more differentiated than those of Ilomalodontotherium , and in fact to occupy an intermediate position between that genus and true Rhinoceros ; so that , judging by the teeth alone , we may place rium , Ilyracodon , and Rhinoceros as three terms of one series of modifications ; and it is quite possible that as Ilyracodon is of greater geological antiquity than , so Ilomalodontotherium may be a still more primaeval typef .
The discovery of this new form throws some light upon the affinities of the very enigmatical Nesodon and Toxodon .
If , as observed by the first describer of those genera , " the interval between Toxodon and Macrauchenia is evidently partly filled by Ilomalodontotherium is another link in the same chain connecting Nesodon with the true Perissodactyles .
The modifications required to convert the molar teeth of Ilomalodontotherium into those of Nesodon , especially the lengthening of the crowns , if carried to a further degree would result in the rootless persistent-pulped teeth of Toxodon ; and in the characters of the incisors and the canines Nesodon is obviously intermediate between the other two genera .
We have thus a new form of mammal , which , as far as the evidence of dental characters ( by no means sufficient for deciding affinity , as the case of Hyrax shows ) allows us to judge , is an extremely generalized type , related on the one hand to Rhinoceros through Ilyracodon , also , though more remotely , to Macrauchenia , and apparently connecting these true perissodactyle forms with the more aberrant Nesodon and Toxodon .
To the fragments of bone sent with the teeth comparatively little importance can be attached , as it is quite uncertain whether they belonged to Ilomalodontotherium or to some other animal .
The most characteristic among them are :\#151 ; 1 .
The greater part of the right innominate bone of an animal about the size of the common American Tapir , and more resembling that species than any other with which it is comparable , though differing notably in many details , especially the form of the acetabulum .
2 .
A mutilated dorsal vertebra , which from its size and age ( the epiphyses of the centrum being detached , as is that of the crest of the ilium in the last-mentioned specimen ) probably belonged to the same individual .
It is , however , far more equine or * Extinct Mammalia of Dakota and Nebraska ( 1869 ) , p. 232 .
Ancient Fauna of Nebraska ( 1853 ) , p. 81 , pis .
xiv .
, xv .
t A more detailed comparison with the teeth of Macrauchenia would be desirable , but unfortunately the materials are not as yet forthcoming ; judging from an unpublished drawing kindly lent me by Professor Geuvais , the incisors and premolars of that genus have quite a different shape .
X Owen , British-Association Eeports ( 1846 ) , vol. xvi .
p. 66 .
rhinocerotic than tapiroid in character .
These evidently belong to some hitherto unknown form ; if Ilomalodontotherium , they are of smaller dimensions than would be inferred from the teeth , unless the animal had a disproportionately large and heavy head .
3 .
A fragment , apparently the inner half of the lower articular extremity of a tibia of an animal of much larger proportions , nearly equalling the Indian Rhinoceros .
If I am right in its determination it is rather anomalous in its characters , somewhat resembling in general shape the corresponding part of the Tapir , but having a deep roughened depression notching the inner margin of the smooth articular surface , similar to that seen in the Hippopotamus alone among recent Ungulates .
4 .
A fragment of the shaft of a long bone , 10 inches in length , apparently the hinder border of an ulna of an animal as large as that to which the last-mentioned piece belonged .
These specimens will be deposited with the teeth in the British Museum , and will become of greater interest when compared with others that we may hope to obtain by future explorations in the same locality .
It is possible that they may belong to one or other of the species of Nesodon , of which one , , only known from a fragment of a molar tooth , equals the largest Rhinoceros in size* .
Description of the Plate .
PLATE XVI .
Fig. 1 .
Side view of the upper teeth of Homalodontotherium Fig. 2 .
Side view of the lower teeth .
Fig. 3 .
Grinding-surface of the left lower teeth .
Fig. 4 .
Grinding-surface of the left upper teeth .
All of the natural size .
a e c. Anterior external cusp .
a i c.Anterior internal cusp of the molar teeth ; the corresponding parts of the incisors are marked with the same letters .
pec .
Posterior external cusp .
p i c. Posterior internal cusp .
a r. Anterior transverse ridge .
p r. Posterior transverse ridge .
as .
Anterior sinus .
ms .
Median sinus .
p s. Posterior sinus .
a t. Anterior talon or accessory cusp .
p t. Posterior talon or accessory cusp .
1 .
External wall or lamina .
* See " Description of some species of the extinct genus Nesodon \amp ; c. , " by Professor Owen , F.R.S. , Phil. Trans , voh cxliii .
( 1853 ) p. 291 .
FlMet .
Phil. Prcms.mCCCUllVna^ HOM'ALOBONTOTHERUM CUNNINGS .

