April 7 , 1853 .
COLONEL SABINE , R.A. , Treas .
&amp; V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " Observations on the Anatomy of the Antenne in a small species of Crustacean .
" By John D. MIDonald , M.D. , Assistant Surgeon to H.M.S.V. Torch .
Communicated by Sir William Burnett , F.R.S. , Director-General of the Medical Department of the Navy .
Received March 3 , 1853 .
The littt-crustacean which is the subject of this paper was taken in considerable numbers in the voyage from St. Vincent to Rio Janeiro .
There are several anatomical peculiarities mentioned , but the most remarl-ble is the structure of the rigjht antenna of the male .
These organs are in the female perfectly symmetrical , and resemble that of the left side in the male ; and although in the very young state of the latter sex the right antenna differs but little in external appearance from the left , yet the peculiar hypertrophied condition of the modified segments in the corresponding organ of the adult inale i to be distinctly traced in a rudimentary state .
As the animal lives in the open ocean , none of the limbs are adapted for walking ; but when placed in a vessel of sea-water , they rested upon their antenna oin reaching the bottom , and paddled themselves about by their fore-limbs and tail .
The author remarks that in all their movements the males exhibit a tendency to turn towards the left side , and concludes the rationale of this fact to be , that the brain on the right side being more developed at the part from which the right antenna derives its nerves , a corresponding predominance is given to the power of the locomotive organs on that side .
When fully developed , each antenna in both sexes consists of twenty-five segments .
Of , these , the first thirteen present nothing remarkable ; but all the remaining pieces on the right side enter into the composition of the curious prehensile organ which forms the principal subject of the paper .
This organ is composed in the following manner:-The fourteenth and four following segments are dilated into a large flask-like organ , the neck of which is eked out by the nineteenth and twentieth .
The next two segments are fused together , and are articulated with the foregoing by a simple joint , and the whole of the remaining segments form another piece similarly articulated with the internediate piece ; so that the whole results in two simple joints susceptible of flexion in one direction ofly .
On the eighteenth segment is a barbed process having its apex directed backwards , and its anterior border beset with sharp teeth .
Two processes of the same nature , but differently placed and more elongated , lie side by side upon the fore-part of the first compound seg'ment .
This piece and that which succeeds it act upon each other like a pair of jaws , each furnished with an rray of sharp conical teeth , while the last compound member of the series plays over the upper surface of the eighteenth segment .
The author then proceeds to describe the muscles which move this complex apparatus .
The extensors are small and feeble , but the flexors are , as might be anticipated , more complex and powerful .
They are two in number .
The first has its origin in the large flask-like dilatation , and is inserted by a tendon into the second compound piece , from which the second muscle arises , and is inserted , also by tendon , into the third piece .
The paper is illustrated by elaborate drawings ,

