Chemical Researches on the Blood , and some other Animal Fluids .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. F.R S. Communicated to the Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry , and by them to the Royal Society .
Read November 21 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 90 .
] The author , after referring to those authorities by which he had been misled into the supposition that the colour of the blood depended on the presence of iron , until he had tried how slight effect it produced by infusion of galls , proceeds to a series of experiments which he has made upon chyle and on lymph , for the purpose of comparing their composition with that of blood , the examination of which is divided into three sections , in which he treats separately of the serum , the coagulum , and the colouring matter .
The chyle employed in these analyses was collected by Mr. Brand while assisting Mr. Home and Mr. Brodie in their experiments on different animals ; attention being always paid to the interval that had elapsed since the last meal ; upon which circumstance its qualities were found to depend more than upon the animal from which it was taken .
About four hours after a meal , the chyle is supposed to be in its most perfect state , and is then uniformly white , like milk .
At longer periods it becomes more dilute , like milk and water , till at length , when an animal has fasted twenty-four hours , the fluid contained in the thoracic duct is reduced to the state of mere lymph .
The taste of chyle is rather salt , with a degree of sweetness , and , by the test of violets , appears very slightly alkaline .
In about ten minutes after removal from the thoracic duct , it coagulates , and ultimately separates into two parts , as blood does , exhibiting a firm coagulum surrounded by a transparent colourless fluid .
The former has more the properties of cheese obtained from milk , than of the fibrine of the blood ; while the serous part also is like whey , and contains a species of sugar which at least very nearly resembles the sugar of milk .
The next subject which Mr. Brand undertakes to examine , is the lymph found in the thoracic duct of animals deprived of food for twenty-four hours before death .
This is rendered slightly turbid by alcohol , but is not coagulated either by heat or by acids .
It produces no change in vegetable blue colours till evaporated nearly to dryness .
After incineration , it is found to contain a small portion of common salt , but no indications of iron .
The serum of blood has been so frequently examined , that Mr. Brand does not enter into any detailed analysis of it .
He however relates some experiments made to satisfy himself , that when serum has been coagulated by heat , after the addition of an acid , or by voltaic electricity , the serosity that remains contains no gelatine .
He examines also what quantity of iron might be present , by evaporating a pint of serum to dryness , and then incinerating the residuum .
When the ash thus obtained had been dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid , a copious precipitation of phosphate of lime took place on the addition of ammonia , but only a slight trace of oxide of iron .
By similar examination of the crassamentum of blood , the quantity of iron contained in it was also found to be extremely small , and not perceptibly different , by previously washing the crassamentum , so as to free it from its red particles .
And in conformity to this experiment , when a quantity of colouring matter had been allowed to subside from serum , through which it was diffused , and then examined separately by evaporation , incineration , and re-agents , as before , the traces of iron , even in the red part , were found to be as indistinct as in the rest of the blood .
In order to procure colouring matter for experiment , Mr. Brand generally employed venous blood , from which the fibrine was separated by stirring during its coagulation , and the red globules were then allowed to subside from the serum , through which they thus remain diffused .
The effect of water upon these globules is to dissolve their colouring matter , and leave them colourless .
If the solution be heated to near 20(0 ?
, the colouring matter is rendered insoluble , and falls to the bottom of a brown colour .
It is also coagulated by alcohol or by sulphuric acid .
Muriatic acid , poured upon the colouring matter , renders a portion of it insoluble , but dissolves a part , forming a solution , which appears crimson by reflected light , but green by transmitted light .
The colour of this solution is turned brown-red by supersaturation with caustic potash , but rather improved by soda or by ammonia .
A portion of the muriatic solution , being evaporated in a water-bath , retained its red colour to the last ; but when quite dry , it becameof a dirty red colour .
Sulphuric acid , diluted with eight or ten parts , of water , being poured upon the colouring matter , if no heat be applied , remains perfectly colourless ; but , by the assistance of heat , it forms a lilac solution , which remains unaltered for a great length of time , though exposed to light ; but if heat be applied , so as to evaporate part of the water , the colour is destroyed in proportion as the acid becomes more concentrated .
The effect of nitric acid is to destroy the colour in greater or less time , in proportion to the quantity employed .
Acetic acid dissolves the colouring matter , with appearances similar to those of the muriatic solution .
The solution in oxalic acid is of a brighter red than any other hitherto noticed .
In tartaric acid the solution approached to scarlet .
The alkalies also , or their subcarbonates , dissolve the colouring matter ; and the solutions may be evaporated nearly to dryness without losing their red colour .
The next object of Mr. Brand was to find such combinations of the colouring matter as would be insoluble , and might therefore afford a permanent dye .
When combined with alumina it is red while moist , but becomes brown when dried .
With oxide of tin it may also be combined , but becomes of a dull red by drying ; neither does supertartrate of potash give permanent brilliancy to the colour .
But when a piece of calico has been previously dipped into infusion of oak-bark , and afterwards steeped in an alkaline solution of the colouring matter , it acquires a redness nearly equal to that given by madder , and tolerably permanent .
But the most effectual mordants appeared to be some of the solutions of quicksilver .
Pieces of woollen cloth , calico , or linen , steeped first in a solution of corrosive sublimate , and afterwards in a solution of the colouring matter , acquired a permanent red tinge , which remained unaltered by washing with soap , The author has , therefore , considerable hopes that this substance may be of some utility in the art of dyeing ; and he remarks , that blood has , in fact , been already employed by the Armenian dyers , along with madder , to ensure the permanency of the colour .

