XXIII .
" Note on Sodium-ethyl and Potassium-ethyl .
" By EDWARD FRANKLAND , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1858 .
The recent interesting discovery of sodium-ethyl and potassiumethyl by Mr. Wanklyn , led me to investigate the cause of the nonformation of these bodies by reactions analogous to those successfully used for the production of zinc-ethyl and similar organo-metallic compounds .
In my earlier experiments upon the isolation of the organic radicals , I studied the action of potassium and sodium upon iodide of ethyl , and found that the latter compound was readily decomposed by either of the metals at a temperature of from 100 ?
to 130 ?
C. The separated ethyl was , however , transformed almost completely into hydride of ethyl and olefiant gas , whilst not a trace of potassium-ethyl or sodium-ethyl was produced .
Mr. Wanklyn has since repeated this experiment with the addition of ether , and has obtained the same result as regards the non-formation of an organometallic compound .
The temperature at which sodium decomposes iodide of ethyl is much lower than that at which sodium-ethyl is broken up , consequently no explanation of the phenomenon can be obtained from this source .
In his observations on the formation of ethyl* , Brodie mentions that iodide of ethyl is decomposed at 170 ?
C. by zinc-ethyl ; and it therefore occurred to me that sodium-ethyl , owing to its more powerful affinities , might effect the decomposition of iodide of ethyl at a lower temperature than that at which iodide of ethyl is decomposed by sodium ; in which case the production of sodium-ethyl , by the action of sodium upon iodide of ethyl , would be an impossibility .
Experiment completely confirmed this anticipation .
A quantity of a strong solution of sodium-ethyl in zinc-ethyl was thrown up into a dry receiver filled with mercury , and an equal volume of pure iodide of ethyl added to it .
Immediately on the mixture of the two liquids , a lively effervescence set in , a considerable quantity of gas collected in the receiver , and a white deposit of iodide of sodium rendered the liquid thick and turbid .
The reaction was complete in two or three minutes without the application of heat .
An analysis of the gas , previously freed from the vapours of iodide of ethyl and zinc-ethyl , showed it to consist of equal volumes of hydride of ethyl and olefiant gas , mixed only with a mere trace of ethyl .
This reaction may therefore be thus expressed:-C , 1 Na+C , PH5 I==NaI+C45 } +C H4 It is therefore evident that sodium-ethyl , and the remark no doubt applies also to potassium-ethyl , could not be obtained by the action of sodium upon iodide of ethyl , even if the decomposition of the latter could be effected at ordinary temperatures , since each particle of the organo-metallic compound being in contact with iodide of ethyl at the moment of its formation , would be instantly decomposed in the manner just described .
That olefiant gas and hydride of ethyl , with mere traces only of ethyl , constitute the gaseous product of the decomposition of iodide of ethyl by sodium , is strong evidence that this formation and immediate decomposition of sodium-ethyl actually takes place .
Sodium-ethyl thus stands in the same relation to iodide of ethyl as hydride of zinc does to hydriodic acid ; and consequently all attempts to produce hydride of zinc by the action of the metal upon the hydrogen acids have failed .
These considerations , taken in connexion with Mr. Wanklyn 's mode of forming sodium-ethyl and potassium-ethyl , afford a clue to the nature of the reactions by which we shall probably eventually succeed in forming the hydrogen compounds of the highly positive metals .
Although the hydrogen compounds of arsenic , antimony , phosphorus , and tellurium are by no means exact analogues of zinc-ethyl , it would nevertheless be interesting to ascertain the action of sodium upon these bodies , with a view to the formation of hydride of sodium .
The nature of the gas evolved by the action of sodium-ethyl upon iodide of ethyl , has some interest in connexion with the formation of ethyl by the action of zinc upon iodide of ethyl .
Brodie expressed , in the memoir above alluded to , an ingenious and highly probable hypothesis , that the true source of the ethyl is the decomposition of its iodide by zinc-ethyl , thus : C , H4 5Zn+C , H5I=ZnI +4 i H } ; and that the secondary products of the reaction ( olefiant gas and hydride of ethyl ) which always accompany the ethyl , result from the primary action of zinc upon iodide of ethyl , thus:2(C4 H5 I ) + 2Zn=C4 4 , +C 4 H } + 2ZnI .
The composition of the gases produced in the above reaction of sodium-ethyl upon iodide of ethyl seems , however , to indicate that the reverse of this hypothesis is true , and that the source of the ethyl is to be found in the primary action of zinc upon iodide of ethyl,2(C,4 H I ) 2Zn= C4 I+ 2ZnI , whilst the secondary products are derived from the decomposition of iodide of ethyl by zinc-ethyl , C4 HI +Zn C4 H , } +C , H , +ZnI .
= -aHqZ

