90 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ Mar. 22 , March 22 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Stratified Discharges.\#151 ; IV .
Stratified and Unstratified Forms of the Jar-Discharge .
" By William Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received March 7 , 1877 .
It is well known that if a Leyden jar be discharged through a vacuum-tube , the discharge generally takes the form of an unbroken column of light , extending from the point of the positive terminal to the hilt of the negative , i. e. to the extreme negative end of the tube , and that it shows no trace of either negative glow or intervening dark space .
On the other hand I have found , by experiments with a large Leyden battery , that if a tube have one terminal connected with the negatively charged coating of the battery and the other held beyond striking-distance from the positively charged coating , the discharge in the tube will show a separation of the positive from the negative part by a dark intervening space .
Under suitable circumstances of exhaustion it will also show striae , in the same manner as when the discharge is effected directly with a Holtz machine , having the conductors either closed or open beyond striking-distance ( see Roy .
Soc. Proceedings , vol. xxiii .
p. 460 ) .
Again , I have found , with the same battery , that if the tube be connected otherwise as before , and held at a distance less than at first , but a little greater than striking-distance , a stratified discharge much more brilliant and more like that produced by a coil will be exhibited .
It should be remarked that the latter form of discharge appears to the unassisted eye , in the cases which I have examined , as an unbroken column of light , but with a negative glow and dark space .
A revolving mirror , however , resolves the column into a regular array of striae , having a rapid proper motion towards the positive terminal .
The transition from the first to the second of these forms , and from the second to the jar-discharge proper when the tube was brought within striking-distance , was , if not absolutely abrupt , at all events so rapid that this form of experiment gave no prospect of following one form into the other .
" With a view to examining the transition as closely as possible a Holtz machine was employed , and the jars having been taken off , a pair of mica plates partially covered with tinfoil was used in their stead .
By sliding one plate over the other , so that more or less of 1877 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
91 the covered parts were brought face to face , a jar was formed the size of which could be varied at pleasure .
An air-spark of adjustable length was also introduced into the circuit between the machine and the tube .
This arrangement was subsequently replaced by the following , which in some respects proved more convenient:\#151 ; A battery of one or more jars was used in the place of the mica plates .
The outside of this battery and one terminal of the tube were connected with the earth ; and the inside and the other terminal were alternately connected with the positive conductor of the machine , so that the battery was alternately charged and discharged through the tube .
The amount of charge was regulated partly by the distance through which the conductors of the machine were separated , and partly by the number of revolutions of the machine during which the charging took place .
It was consequently independent of the absolute time of contact .
It will be observed that this arrangement did not give the same opportunity of a continuous variation of jar surface as the first ; but , on the other hand , the changes of phase in the phenomenon due to increments of charge were capable of indefinite diminution by shortening the distance between the conductors of the machine and by increasing the number of the jars .
The first object proposed was to ascertain whether a jar could be charged with so small a quantity of electricity as of itself to give a stratified discharge in a tube ; in other words , whether the resistance of the tube itself , if resistance it be , could by a suitable charge of jar be made to insure a stratified discharge .
For this purpose a jar was charged with small sparks from the machine , and discharged after receiving charges of 1 , 2 , 3 , \amp ; c. sparks in succession .
The experiment proved successful with a coal-gas tube at a pressure of about 4 millims. : charges of three sparks gave bright flake-like stratifications ; higher charges gave a discharge with a positive column , a negative glow , and a dark space , although the striae were not always discernible .
But when the charge exceeded 5 or 6 sparks , the positive column advanced so far as to obliterate the dark space , and ultimately made its way to the hilt of the terminal .
Similar experiments were made with both forms of instrumental arrangement , and with tubes containing different gases and at different pressures .
A number of tubes tried with various amounts of battery-charge , but with the same surface , showed that , as the charge was increased , the head of the positive column advanced towards the negative terminal , the dark space became narrower , and the glow contracted in dimensions ; and when the head of the column drew very near to the negative terminal , the glow , instead of covering the whole surface of the terminal , formed a small drop at the point .
On still further increasing the charge , the drop withdrew to the hilt of the terminal ; and finally , when it bad com92 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ Mar. 22 , pletely retreated into the hilt , the continuous or true jar-discharge took place .
With a view to testing experimentally how far the effects here described were due to quantity and how far to tension , the size of the jar was altered , all other circumstances remaining the same .
It was then found not only , as before , that small charges gave stratified and large unstratified discharges , but also that the maximum charge compatible with stratification was greater with a large than with a small jar .
As a further experiment in this direction , a series of jars were arranged in cascade ; and it was found that the greater the number of jars so arranged , the smaller the charge necessary to insure a true jar-discharge .
A charge insufficient to destroy stratification with one jar was sufficient to destroy them when more than one was used in cascade .
These results point to tension rather than to quantity as the determining cause of the character of the discharge .
In fact , having taken a number of jars of the same size , and having ascertained the maximum charge with which one jar could be charged without obliterating stratification , say , " the critical charge , " I found that the critical charge for 2 , 3 , . . .
jars arranged for quantity was 2 , 3 , . . .
times that for a single jar ; and , on the other hand , that the critical charge for 2 , 3 . . .
jars arranged in series was 1:2 , 1:3 , . . .
of that for a single jar .
The illumination , however , was always greater with the larger charges , i. e. with the greater quantity of electricity discharged .
The experiments above described were made first with tubes in which the pressure was moderately high .
They were afterwards repeated with lower pressures , and results of the same character as before were obtained .
But , owing to the smaller amount of the critical charges , to the greater extension of the negative glow , and to the consequently increased delicacy of the phenomena , the same numerical precision was not attained .
But there seems no reason to doubt that the discrepancies might be indefinitely diminished by instrumental refinements .
The duration of the stratified discharges observed throughout these experiments was exceedingly short , indistinguishable , in fact , from that of the true jar-discharge .
When viewed in a revolving mirror , either with or without a slit , they showed no sign whatever of prolonged duration ; and we may thence conclude that , so far as our present instrumental arrangements extend , there is no inferior limit to the duration of discharge necessary for the production of striae .
In connexion with this part of the subject another form of experiment was arranged .
Beside the jars hitherto described another was used , having its inner surface connected with one terminal of the tube , and its outer with the other .
When this disposition was made , the additional jar acted as a buffer , and produced a stratified discharge under circumstances which would without it have produced a true jar-discharge .
1877.1 On Friction between Surfaces at Low Speeds .
93 A comparison of the results here obtained with those detailed in Part II of these researches shows that the phenomena produced by suitable disposition of the Leyden battery coincide with those produced by the induction-coil .
With the coil it was found that ( 1 ) for a given electromotive force the column of striae was shorter the larger the battery-surface or strength of current used ; ( 2 ) that the proper motion , when directed , as usual , towards the positive terminal , was more rapid the greater the electromotive force employed .
With the Leyden battery it was found that ( 1 ) in order to maintain the same length of column with an increased surface , the charge must be increased in a larger proportion than the surface ; and ( 2 ) it was noticed that the striae , which when the tension was low were distinct and well separated , became more blurred as the tension rose , until they sometimes were blended into an apparently unbroken column of light .
The presence , however , of the negative glow still showed that the true jar-discharge had not yet been reached .
II .
" On Friction between Surfaces moving at Low Speeds .
" By Fleeming Jenkin , F.R.SS .
L. \amp ; E. , Professor of Engineering in the University of Edinburgh , and J. A. Ewing .
Received March 8 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The common belief regarding friction , which is based on the researches of Coulomb and Morin , is that between surfaces in motion the friction is independent of the velocity , but that the force required to start the sliding is ( in some cases at least ) greater than the force required to overcome friction during motion ; in other words , the static coefficient is usually considered to be greater than the kinetic .
It occurred to the authors that there might possibly be continuity between the two kinds of friction , instead of an abrupt change at the instant in which motion begins .
We should thus expect that when the relative motion of the surfaces is very slow there will be a gradual increase of friction as the velocity diminishes .
Whether any such increase takes place at very low speeds is left an open question by the experiments of Coulomb and Morin , whose methods did not enable definite measurements of the friction to be made when the velocity was exceedingly small .
The authors have succeeded in measuring the friction between surfaces moving with as low a velocity as one five-thousandth of a foot per second , and have found that in certain cases there is decided increase in the coefficient of friction as the velocity diminishes .
The apparatus made use of consisted of a cast-iron disk 2 feet in diameter and weighing 86*2 lbs. , supported on a steel axle whose ends were less than one tenth of an inch in diameter .
These ends were supported in bearings which consisted of rectangular notches cut in pieces

