The following papers were read:1 .
" An account of a remarkable Aurora Borealis seen at Montreal on the 13th of August 1849 .
" By Mr. Thomas MeGinn .
Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. , &amp;c. The author having witnessed a singular aurora on the 13th of August , in this communication gives a description of the phmnomenon .
He states that , on the evening in question , the whole northern hemisphere was screened by thick dark clouds , which , though very small , were closely packed together .
Shortly after sunset ( 7h 34wm ) it became quite dark , and at 8 o'clock the existence of the meteor was indicated by a mellow luminous tinge which appeared through the openings of the clouds in the north .
About half-past eight a similar luminous glow was observed through the clouds which were fast disappearing in a heavy dew .
This light appeared like a belt of 2 ?
broad , extending across the sky from a point almost due east directly to the west , and reaching within 5 ?
or 6 ?
, of the horizon , As the clouds disappeared , which they did very rapidly , the true character of the aurora became more perfectly developed .
In the north the usual dark arch from which the columns of light ordinarily appear to issue , was for the greater part of the time wanting ; and the luminous columns seemed to rise from the earth , extending upwards occasionally to the pole star , beyond which no trace of them was visible .
A brown vapoury cloud , the only one now visible , extended along the horizon from N.N.E. to a few points south of east , and maintained apparently a motionless position , the lower part appearing to rest upon the earth , and the upper edges , which seemed uniform , rose about 6 ?
above the horizon .
Immediately in the east , and apparently issuing from this cloud , rose the belt or zone of light already noticed , forming a magnificent arch .
The light emitted from this zone was of a milky whiteness , and the matter of it seemed to be much more compact than any portion of an aurora ever seen by the author ; but immediately in the zenith , where it intersected the Milky Way , it appeared to be far less compact .
At this point , where alone motion was observable , a constant current was seen , presenting the appearance of light fleecy clouds driven by a strong wind , and following each other in such close succession as to appear in contact .
This stream of the aurora was maintained undiminished for more than an hour , during which time the eastern part of the zone did not appear to lose either ih volume or brilliancy , nor did the western seem to gain in either of these respects .
After an hour , the dark cloud seemed to diminish slowly , and with it the zone began to lose its brilliancy .
In about another hour this cloud and also the zone , which throughout had maintained apparent contact with it , vanished .
The conclusion , that the dark cloud served the purpose of a conductor and fed the zone drawing off the matter of the aurora from the north , seemed to the author inevitable .
The cloud did not appear to him to be more than forty or fifty miles distant .
In conclusion he remarks that none of the prismatic tints were observable on this occasion .

