]\gt ; Note on the Equation in the Relativity Theory of Gravitation .
Prof. A. B. oRSYTH , F.R.S. , Imperial College , ( Received March 4 , 1920 .
) The critical equation in Prof. Einstein 's relativity theory of gravitation is given in the form* where is the mass of the sun , is the reciprocal of the distance of the moving body from the sun , is the\ldquo ; major semi-axis of the orbit the units being astronomical , and is the " " excentricity\ldquo ; of the orbit .
The foregoing equation can be integrated exactly , the functions invoIved .being elliptic and not circular ; and approximations for solar system are easily obtained , because the modulus of the elliptic functions is small .
The necessary analysis is as follows .
1 .
The equation is where The equation has three roots ; and their character , as to reality , depends upon the sign of , where ( with the usual notation ) On substitution and reduction , we have Prof Eddington 's 'Report on the Relativity Theory of avitation , edition , p. 60 ( 1920 ) .
146 Prof A. R. Forsyth .
Note on the Dr.fferential By using the relation the last expression leads to the equation In the solar system , as regards even the nearest known planets , ?
is of the order , while is never of so small an order ; consequently , the first term within the bracket governs the sign of .
Thus is ative , but not attaining a limit zero within the system ; therefore , by the usual rule , the roots of are real , and no two of them are equal .
Let them be denoted by , arranged in descending order of nitude ; their product is , a positive quantity ; hence either all three real roots must be positive , or one of them must be positive and the other two must be negative .
2 .
As a atter of fact , the three roots are positive for the solar system .
Let ; then this equation , as usual when the three roots are real , with the equation we find where giving a positive value for .
We sum a positive value for between and there is no loss of generality in the assumption .
The three values of correspond to the values ; hence , as we have .
Again , in the Retativity Theory of avitation .
approximately , for the solar system ; so that approximately .
Also , approximately , ; and therefore approximately .
Thus is positive .
Consequently is positive , and its value is given by 3 .
Returning now to the original differential we have Now is real .
For the solar system , is approximately equal to 1 , while , and is of order not higher than .
Hence being the value of ?
at perihelion .
We shall assume that is measured positively throughout the orbit , so that is positive .
From perihelion to aphelion ?
decreases , so that is negative in this range .
Thus is negative , and therefore Substitute ; after a slight reduction , we find where The value of at perihelion is , and it subsequently decreases ; hence the 148 Prof. A. R. Forsyth .
Note on the value of at perihelion is } , and it subsequently decreases .
Consequently , at any place before aphelion in the orbit , we where at perihelion , and , in the usual notation of elliptic functions , is the complete elliptic integral of the first kind , and that is , .
Now which is the accurate equation of the orbit represented by the original differential equation .
It involves elliptic functions , instead of the circular functions that occur in the equation of the orbit .
4 .
Further , the value of ( decreasing from at perihelion ) is zero at aphelion ; so , if denote the value of at aphelion , we have From aphelion to perihelion we have similar relations ; so that , if at the next perihelion , be the value of , which is to begin with at aphelion , we have Thus Equation in the Theory of Gravitation .
Let the advance of the periheliun in one revolution be denoted by ; then The expression is accurate , and not merely uate , in connection 1110 original differential equation so the magnitudes in that equation allow three real roots for , whatever be the gravitational Hystenl .
The preceding results are accurate , and not merely approximate , subject to the condition just stated .
In the exposition of the application to the solal system , and specially with ence to the advance of the perihelion of Mercury in one complete revoluCion , approximation is made with regard the magnitudes of the solar system that are involved .
To bring the approximation into relation with the foreg n accurate results , we must deal with the two relations 5 .
As regards the approximation to , we require most nportant terms in and in K. The value of is From the foregoing values of , we have to the order of approximation that includes ?
but no higher power of .
Hence , to this order , The value of is Again from the foregoing values of and , we have 150 Prof. A. R. Forsyth .
Note on the Central Differential to the order retained ; itnd efoxe , to this But to the order of approximation : is , to the order , Thus ; and therefore there follows Prof. Einstein 's inference from his theory that , to the order of approximation adopted , the perihelion of the moving body advances a fraction of a revolution equal to ' during each revolution .
6 .
As regards the approximation to , we write ; and as is small , the quantity of the elliptio functions is Now from the expression , wo have so that we want .
But and therefore Equation in the Relativity Theory of Gravitation .
to the order retained , so that , Again , from the expression for , we have Consequently to our order of approximation .
Also that ; and so that Thus 7 .
If a closer approximation is desired for any body in which the quantity is not of so small an order as in the known solar system , fuller values of the roots of should be found , and can easily be fouud .
But an inspection of the value of , upon which these roots depend , shows that , for any known.bodies , the further approximations are ordinarily not worthy of account .
VOL. XCVII.\mdash ; A.

