114 Dr. W. Stirling and A. Dannie .
" On the Action of certain Reagents upon the Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
Part I. The Coloured Blood-Corpuscles of the Newt and Frog .
" By William Stirling , M.D. , Sc. D. , Professor of the Institutes of Medicine , and Arthur Rannie , Graduate in Medicine of the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , F.R.S. Received June 14 .
Read June 15 , 1882 .
[ Plate 1 .
] The histological and chemical constitution of the coloured blood-corpuscles of man and other animals has formed a fertile source of investigation for a large number of observers , and it might seem that further investigations on this subject were unnecessary .
We have , however , devoted considerable time to a systematic study of the effects of certain reagents upon the blood of the newt and frog which have yielded results , some of them of not a little interest and importance .
The literature of the subject , chiefly of the German papers , is given somewhat fully in Rollett 's article , " Blood , " in Strieker 's " Histology , " and a careful resume of most of the more recent and some of the older observations will be found in a short paper by G. F. Dowdeswell , in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science " for 1881.* Reference will be made to the literature of each reagent under its appropriate heading .
The : method of conducting the investigation was as follows:\#151 ; A newt was pithed ; its heart exposed ; the auricle snipped through and the blood collected.- !
A drop of this blood was then placed on a slide , and covered with a cover-glass , a hair having first been placed between the cover-glass and the slide to admit of the corpuscles rolling freely over and over so as to be seen on edge as well as on the flat , and also to allow the corpuscles to expand freely under the influence of re-agents .
The blood was then irrigated with a solution of the reagent to be investigated and examined with a magnifying power of 300 diameters , or a higher magnifying power when this was deemed desirable .
Similar experiments were made with frog 's blood , but newt 's blood was preferred on account of the corpuscles being larger .
Pyrogallic Acid .
On irrigating a drop of the blood with a 2 per cent , solution of * An excellent digest up to date is given by Professor Lankester in his exhaustive paper ' ' Observations and Experiments on the Red Blood-Corpuscle , " in the same Journal for the year 1871 .
f Results were obtained equally with defibrinated and ordinary blood .
Action of certain Reagents upon Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
115 pyrogallic acid\#151 ; which had become yellow through having been kept a day or two after it was made\#151 ; the following appearances weie observed:\#151 ; The biconvex oval red corpuscles soon became globular , and in a very short time were observed to recoil or give a sudden jerk , a small portion of the contents being at the same time extruded in a direction opposite to that in which the recoil took place .
In fact , the recoil seemed to be due to the sudden extrusion of a small portion of the contents of the corpuscle at one place , or in rare cases at two places , at the margin of the corpuscle .
These small extrusions resemble , but are not identical with the " pullulations " described by Dr. Roberts as the effect of the action of a solution of tannic acid.* It is very interesting to watch the sudden effect .
The globular corpuscle suddenly jerks in one direction , and simultaneously with this , one observes a small mass of the contents of the corpuscle pouring out of a very fine aperture or crack at one side of the corpuscle .
( PI .
1 , fig. 1 , b , c , d. ) The motion or jerk seems to be caused by the sudden ejection of material , and so the corpuscle moves in an opposite direction .
The opening is very small , and the extruded mass remains adherent to the corpuscle .
It is much less than a twentieth the bulk of the corpuscle , and it is rarely larger than one-third the diameter of the corpuscle .
It is slightly coloured and slightly granular , remains adherent to the corpuscle , and does not show any of the " hooded " character described by Dr. Roberts as the effect of tannic acid .
The rent or crack in the envelope or at least in the now thickened rind of the corpuscle , through which the little mass is forced or ejected can often be clearly seen .
If such a preparation be sealed up , such buds or projections may be kept for a considerable time .
If a sufficient amount of the acid be added other effects follow .
The corpuscles begin to assume a coarsely granular appearance , and the nucleus , until now unaffected , begins to assume a granular appearance , but still remains pale as at first .
Owing to the granular condition of the hull ( Dowdeswell ) of the corpuscle , the nucleus cannot be seen until the centre of the corpuscle is focussed .
Some of the corpuscles appeared to become granular without any extrusion of a part of their contents .
In those corpuscles which had given way at one side the granular contents soon began to pass out through the rent , and often the nucleus also was extruded .
In many of the corpuscles the nucleus was observed to be half within and half without the body of the corpuscle .
A distinct , highly refractive envelope vras traceable around the body of ' the corpuscle as far as the break in its side , when it suddenly ceased .
This envelope was often traceable on one or both sides .
of the protruded part of the corpuscle for some distance , but never completely around it .
The protruded mass generally remained attached to the side of i 2 * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1863 .
HG Dr. W. Stirling and A. Rannie .
the corpuscle , even when the whole of its granular contents had passed out .
The nucleus generally remained within the envelope , and became tinged of a yellow colour .
The intranuclear plexus of fibrils was also revealed .
( PI .
1 , fig 1 , g.)The envelope of a corpuscle devoid of its granular contents was observed to be tinged of a yellow colour , and to show a double contour .
A similar appearance was observed around the nuclei .
The remaining corpuscles ultimately became com-pletely disintegrated , and the field of the microscope became covered with free nuclei , granular colouring matter , and fragments of envelopes sometimes containing nuclei .
( PI .
1 , fig. 1 , .
) Sometimes an envelope was seen entire but with a rent in its side extending half through it , and through which its contents had escaped .
( Fig. 1 , h. ) Sometimes a mass of granules was observed with a dark line partially enveloping it .
The dark line represented a highly refractive envelope now distinctly shown\#151 ; perhaps produced\#151 ; by the action of the pyro- .
gallic acid .
It is an interesting question to determine why and how this sudden protrusion of a portion of the coloured corpuscles is produced at one part of the circumference .
That a process of endosmosis goes on is shown by the corpuscles assuming a globular form , but that of itself is not enough to account for the sudden protrusion already referred to , for water and many other fluids also produce endosmosis , but give rise to no such ejection of the contents of the corpuscles .
The pyrogallic acid obviously has some chemical effect on the corpuscular contents , and it is just probable that the envelope of the corpuscle is not perfectly uniform in its resistance all round .
We are inclined to view the above described phenomenon in connexion with the spots or thickenings described by Dr. Roberts as occurring in the wall of blood-corpuscles under the action of magenta solution , and also with the curious spots observed by us in the corpuscular wall after the action of gallic acid .
It is to be noted that no contraction or diminution of bulk of the corpuscle is observable as coincident with the extrusion of the mass , which , however , is relatively so small that it would scarcely visibly affect the diameter of the corpuscle .
The various effects are shown in PI .
1 , fig. 1 .
Seeing that tannic acid has already yielded such remarkable results in the hands of Dr. Roberts , and that pyrogallic acid gave rise to equally peculiar phenomena , it occurred to us to ascertain the effect of a substance closely related to both , viz. , gallic acid .
[ Wedel* also recognised that pyrogallic acid causes a separation of the haemoglobin from the stroma .J Gallic Acid .
A saturated solution of gallic acid causes the corpuscle to become * Hermann 's u Handbuch der Physiologie , " vol. 4 , p. 18 , 1880 .
Action of certain Reagents upon Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
117 anherical and the nucleus to become more distinct and tinged SOW .
Then a sudden recoil or jerk is -observed , the corpuscle It the same time elongating and swelling up .
No rupture of the envelope wm seen .
The contents of the corpuscle appeared padu-"H " to pass out , or to be dissolved out , and the Held of the microscope became covered with granular debris .
The nucleus was left of a bright yellow colour and quite smooth and homogeneous in appearance .
As all the heemoglobin is dissolved out of the corpuscle , the deeply stained homogeneous nucleus is seen in the interior of the globular corpuscle , which is surrounded by a highly refractive envelope in which one , two , three , or more slight thickenings , or highly refractive elongated bodies , are to be seen .
( PI .
1 , fig. 2 , b , c. ) Whether these bodies are at all comparable to the thickenings , or " maculae , already described by Roberts , it would be difficult to say .
Perhaps they are merely the debris of the intracellular stroma .
Slight remains of this stroma may sometimes be seen in the perinuclear portion of the corpuscle , as after a time it becomes slightly tinged yellow and is stained by fuchsin or magenta .
Within the nucleus one , two , or Inore highly refractive dots are always to be seen .
When single the dot presents the appearance of a nucleolus , but it occupies very Variable positions and is larger than the nucleolus revealed by the action of dilute alcohol , already described by Ranvier and one of us * These dots are perhaps the remains of the intranuclear plexus .
( Fig. 2 .
) Hydrochloric Acid .
1 per cent. Solution.\#151 ; One of us has already described the sudden enlargement and as sudden collapse of the corpuscles , with a simultaneous discharge of the haemoglobin , which results from irrigation with a 1 per cent , solution of this acid.i ' 2 per cent. Solution.\#151 ; On irrigating a drop of blood with a 2 per cent , solution of hydrochloric acid the nucleus began apparently to shrink away from its surroundings , becoming at the saime time tinged of a yellow colour , and showing an intranuclear plexus of fibrils .
In some of the corpuscles the nucleus had taken up an excentric situation , being placed at one end of the corpuscle or nearer one end than another , showing how plastic the perinuclear portion of the corpuscle is .
( Fig. 3 , \amp ; .
) Its long axis was sometimes found to lie across that of the corpuscle .
( Fig* 3 , h. ) In some corpuscles the apparent shrinking of the nucleus was not observed and in some it was very slight .
In a corpuscle seen on edge this , change in the nucleus is very striking ( fig. 3 , e , ) , and is perhaps due to the acid fluid passing by endosmosis through the body * W. Stirling , " Journal of A. not .
and Physiol. , " vol. x , p. 778 .
t W. Stirling , " Text-book of Practical Histology , " 1882 , p. 2 .
Dr. W. Stirling and A. Rannie .
of the corpuscle into the nucleus , and so affecting the latter as to cause j it to shrivel up and thus to retreat from the mass of haemoglobin in S which it lies embedded .
In its passage through the body of the corpuscle the fluid had dissolved out a portion of the colouring matter of the corpuscle and carried it into the nucleus , so that the latter had become tinged with it .
The nucleus generally retained its original position in the corpuscle with its long axis parallel with that of the corpuscle .
Although apparently free in the haemoglobin , the nucleus was not observed to change its position within its cavity .
This may be accounted for on the supposition that some of the intranuclear fibrils pass through the envelope of the nucleus , and are in direct continuity with some of the fibrils which form the stroma of the hull of the corpuscle , and that these fibrils support the nucleus in the fluid by which it is surrounded .
The size and coloration of the corpuscles were slightly diminished .
To appreciate the full effect of the acid it is necessary to have two views of the corpuscles , one on the flat and the other on edge .
When viewed on the flat the shrunken nucleus can be seen lying within the corpuscle , with a clear wide space , probably filled with fluid , lying between it and the haemoglobin-charged stroma .
On causing the corpuscles to roll over , however , one observes that there is not only a shrinking of the nucleus , but also a simultaneous expansion of that portion of the corpuscle which lies immediately outside the nucleus , so that on edge the corpuscles , instead of presenting the usual graceful biconvex curves , suddenly bulge out in the centre , as represented in fig. 3 , / .
A somewhat similar effect is described by Rollett* : " The nucleus appears to be not very sharply defined , but frequently shrivelled and surrounded by an empty space , as though lying in a cavity of the substance of the blood-corpuscle ( chromic acid , hydrochloric acid , nitric acid , picric acid , tannic acid , and concentrated tincture of iodine ) .
" No figures are given , but we find most certainly that these acids yield more characteristic results than is conveyed in the above description .
Corpuscles " exhibiting this peculiar change can be kept for a considerable time .
In some cases , just when the acid begins to act , a slight shrinking of the haemoglobin from the envelope of the corpuscle can be seen .
It is curious to note the very different effects produced by solutions of the same acid\#151 ; a 1 per cent , solution producing a expansion of the whole corpuscle , whilst the* stronger solution causes only a partial swelling up of one portion of the corpuscle , and a simultaneous shrinking of the nucleus .
* Op. cit. , p. 399 .
Action of certain Reagents upon Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
119 Benzoic Acid .
This acid is soluble to the extent of 1 in 200 parts of water .
A saturated solution causes the nuclei to become distinct and many of the corpuscles to become spherical .
The contents of the stroma of the corpuscle gradually pass out through the membrane and the field of the microscope becomes covered with granular debris , which is in greatest abundance close to the corpuscles .
The latter at length become quite clear , except for a few granules here and there in the stroma .
The nuclei are distinct and of a bright yellow colour and are generally 9val and more or less irregular in outline , but sometimes spherical .
A double contour-line can nearly always be made out both around the nucleus and body of the corpuscle .
Some of the nuclei show an intranuclear plexus , others are smooth and homogeneous .
Salicylic Acid .
A saturated watery solution of salicylic acid caused the corpuscles to swell up rapidly and become globular , the nuclei at the same time becoming tinged yellow .
In a very short time the corpuscles begin to elongate one after another , with a sudden jerk .
No visible break could be observed in the side of the corpuscle , although the nucleus at the moment of recoil was often observed to pass out through the side of the corpuscle .
The field of the microscope quickly became covered with yellowish debris\#151 ; the contents of the stroma of the corpuscles\#151 ; while the perinuclear part of the corpuscles became decolorised .
Some of the nuclei were smooth in appearance , and bright yellow in colour ; others showed beautifully the intranuclear plexus of fibrils , with narrow meshes ; and still others had become swollen up to about twice their normal dimensions , and exhibited a wide-meshed plexus in their interior , due no doubt to the separation of the fibrils by the swelling up of the interfibrillar substance .
Those nuclei which showed a plexus in their interior were observed to be bounded by a double contour-line , tinged of a yellow colour .
A similar line indicated the position of the envelope of the corpuscle .
Many free nuclei were observed , and some with the collapsed envelope and stroma of the corpuscle still clinging to them .
Other nuclei were noticed half within and half without the corpuscle .
When the effect of the reagent had been more gradual , the perinuclear part of the corpuscle was granular and darkened in colour .
The nucleus was pale\#151 ; slightly tinged yellow\#151 ; and showed an intranuclear plexus .
With this acid , as with many others , we frequently observed indications in the nuclei as if they were dividing , and we recall the observation of Preyer , that in the breeding season , he observed that 120 Dr. W. Stirling and A. Rannie .
partially divided nuclei were frequently to be seen m the coloured 1 blood-corpuscles of the frog .
Tartaric Acid .
On irrigation with a 12 per cent , solution of this acid , the first effect observed was an unequal shrinking of the corpuscles , so as to produce a very peculiar effect .
Each corpuscle appeared with a series of bars across it , so as to present a series of alternate dark and light coloured areas .
These areas not unfrequently resemble a series of folds or creases in the corpuscles .
Sometimes these areas were arranged with considerable regularity across the corpuscle , whilst at other times they were irregular , and sometimes radiated outwards .
The lighter areas seemed to be produced by the corpuscle becoming thinner at these parts , as if it were the result of osmosis taking place unequally and irregularly .
This effect , however , soon gives place to another , wherein the corpuscles suddenly swell up and burst .
Coincident with this swelling up , there is a great commotion in the material elements of the corpuscles , the nucleus is not unfrequently liberated , and can be seen to pass out of the disintegrated hull of the corpuscle , becoming at the same time completely decolorised .
Immediately before bursting , the barred arrangement of the haemoglobin just described disappears , and the nucleus , which until then had been pale and indistinct , becomes more distinct , yellowish in colour , and more granular in appearance .
The swelling and decoloration could often be observed to commence at one end of the corpuscle and pass towards the other end .
After the corpuscles had burst , the nuclei were left stained of a deep yellow colour , and showing a beautiful intranuclear plexus of fibrils .
Many nuclei were seen with the collapsed envelope and stroma of the corpuscle still adherent to them .
After a time the collapsed envelope and stroma often became slightly stained of a yellow colour .
Citric Acid .
The action of a 12 per cent , solution of citric acid was in every respect the same as that of tartaric acid .
Formic Acid .
On irrigation of a drop of blood with a 12 per cent , solution of this acid , the nuclei became distinct , and many of the corpuscles very soon became globular , gave way at one side , and became decolorised .
The giving way was accompanied by a recoil or jerk .
The nucleus sometimes escaped , but was generally surrounded by vestiges of the collapsed envelope , and of the stroma of the corpuscle .
These effects were only seen in those corpuscles which first came under the influence of the reagent .
In those corpuscles which were least exposed to the Action of certain Reagents upon Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
121 reagent , the effect was more gradual , and somewhat different .
The nucleus became brighter as with the other corpuscles , but after a short time the corpuscle suddenly expanded to several times its former size .
No bursting was observed , nor did the corpuscle become globular before expansion .
The nuclei became bright yellow and granular after the expansion of the corpuscle .
The outline of the expanded hull , though faint , could be distinctly seen , as also could indications of a fibrillar stroma in the hull .
Lactic Acid .
A solution of lactic acid ( 24 per cent. ) was found to cause at first an irregular crenation of the haemoglobin within its envelope , so that the latter could be seen as a glass-clear structure , separated from its contents at different parts .
The nucleus gradually became more distinct and " granular .
" The corpuscle soon expanded suddenly to several times its original size , the nucleus being well defined , and showing beautifully the fibrillar plexus in its interior .
Some of the corpuscles doubtless burst , as free nuclei are found in many parts of the field .
Nuclei are also seen with the remains of the hull and envelope of the corpuscle attached to one side .
Oxalio Acid .
A 2 per cent , solution of oxalic acid caused the corpuscles and their nuclei to swell up and become globular .
The nuclei became tinged yellow .
Very soon the corpuscles gave a sudden recoil or jerk , and at the same time elongated .
The nucleus was often extruded at the moment of recoil , but in the case of other corpuscles it simply shifted its situation within the corpuscle .
Not unfrequently we could watch the nucleus being extruded , and when it was half out and half in the corpuscle it was constricted , but still no envelope was visible in the corpuscle .
No actual break was visible on the side of the corpuscle , but the contents of the latter was scattered over the field of the microscope in small yellowish granules .
The corpuscles gradually lost their colouring matter , but the nuclei became stained of a bright yellow colour , and showed beautiful plexuses of fibrils in their interior .
In many of the corpuscles also many fine fibrils , stained yellow , were observed in the perinuclear part of the corpuscles , mostly passing in a radial manner from the nucleus to the envelope .
( Fig. 4 , e , h. ) These fibrils and the nucleus are well stained by fuchsin or magenta .
If the action of the acid is gradual both nucleus and corpuscle may be completely decolorised .
Dr. W. Stirling and A. Rannie .
Carbolic Acid .
The changes induced in the corpuscles by a saturated ( 1 in 201 watery solution of carbolic acid were peculiar , and somewhat difficult to describe on account of the rapidity with which the final stage was reached .
The appearances seen were as followsOn irrigating the blood with the solution of the reagent it was found that the corpuscles first affected had lost a great part\#151 ; or the whole\#151 ; of their haemoglobin , while the nucleus had become much swollen and of a globular form* .
( Fig. 5 , a. ) The nucleus in this condition often showed well the plexus in its interior , but at other times it was seen to contain a number of dark yellow globules\#151 ; derived no doubt from the perinuclear part of the corpuscle\#151 ; but did not show the plexus .
The corpuscle itself consisted of the swollen nucleus with only a narrow rim of the perinuclear part around it .
In some corpuscles haemoglobin was collected into a semi-globular mass attached to one side of the nucleus .
( Fig. 5 , e , f. ) In other corpuscles the nucleus had a crescent-shaped mass of haemoglobin on either side of it .
The haemoglobin still in connexion with the nucleus , either in its interior or attached to its sides , was smooth in appearance and darkened in colour ; over the part of the slide first invaded by the reagent many long dark streaks of granular colouring matter were seen .
It appeared as if the corpuscles attacked by the acid had had their envelope dissolved or had burst at one side , allowing of the escape of the colouring matter .
On selecting some unaltered corpuscles in the centre of the slide , and watching the gradual action of the acid upon them as it passed under the cover-glass , the following appearances were observed :\#151 ; The corpuscles seen on the flat first showed the barred arrangement of the perinuclear part already described as occurring under the action of several other reagents , and which is due to the varying thickness of the corpuscles at different parts .
( This variation was seen in a corpuscle on edge , which has then a crenated appearance .
) Very soon the corpuscles became granular in appearance , the hsemoglobiu becoming- at the same time much darkened .
The nucleus became more distinct , was pale in colour , and had a granular appearance .
Many of the corpuscles were observed to have given way at one side , and their contents to have been partly extruded .
The nucleus soon became much swollen , and often exhibited an intranuclear plexus .
The contents of the corpuscles were scattered about the field of the microscope in the form of small dark gi'anules .
Many of the darkly granular corpuscles above mentioned appear to become gradually decolorised , while in others the granules appeared to melt down into dark yellow homogeneous semi-fluid particles , which were seen adhering to the greatly distended nucleus.* * The liberation of the hsemoglobin is of importance in connexion with poisoning Action of certain Reagents upon Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
123 Ammonium Hydrate .
On irrigation of a drop of blood with a 12 per cent -solution of ammonium hydrate the corpuscles became spherical , and at the ' time darkened in colour .
The nuclei could not be seen distinctly , but appeared to hare undergone the same change of shape as the corpuscles .
Very soon the corpuscles suddenly collapsed , and they lud their nuclei disappeared from view entirely Sometimes instead collapsing , the corpuscles suddenly expanded , appearing to burst and then melted away .
The expansion was accompanied with a slig recoil or ierk .
The solution of the corpuscles was sometimes more gradual , this depending , however , on the strength of ^esoWion naed .
i 2 per cent , solution causes a more gradual solution of the cor- PUTheSeffects of ammonium hydrate and the alkalies generally have been investigated very frequently , and solutions much weaker than we have employed have been used .
Dr. William Addison* describes and figures what he called the acid and alkaline forms of human blood , while Kneuttingerf has shown that " alkalies as a genera iu e , w en in a state of moderate concentration , exert a solvent action on all the constituents of the blood-corpuscles , including the nuclei .
A solution of -1 grm. in 100 cub. centims. is quite sufficient for this purpose .
There is , therefore , nothing remarkable in a much stronger solution rapidly producing the same effect , but what we have found is that some time after complete solution of the corpuscles has occurred small microscopic crystals are to be found scattered over tee o view .
If such a preparation be sealed up the crystals gradually grow .
and assume a considerable , although still microscopic , size .
In some cases these crystals are coloured of a slightly yellowish tint .
onie are prismatic , whilst others are like two triangles placed with their obtuse angles towards each other .
They resemble very closely m shape some of the forms of triple phosphate which are found m urine after decomposition of the urea has set in .
At present we are unacquainted with their exact nature .
" .
A very careful description of the action of the vapour of ammonia is given by Professor Lankester in his paper already cited , and it is curious to note that Professor Lankester saw particles separate from the haemoglobin of frog 's corpuscles , and " in -these it was quite easy by carbolic acid , when the urine has a dark smoky tint from the presence of altered hemoglobin ; Huls , under Landois ' direction , also found that carbolic acid caused a separation of the hemoglobin from the stroma .
I/ ebrbucb der ysio logie , " 3rd edition , by Landois .
January 10th , 1883 .
* " Quart .
Journ. of Mic .
Sc. N.S. , yoI .
i , p. 20 , and " Proc. Eoy .
Soc. " vol. 10 , p. 186 .
" t " Sir Histologie des Blutes .
" Wurzburg , 1865 .
( Strieker 's " Histology , vol. i , p. 398 .
) Or .
W. Stirling and A. Rannie .
to recognize the well-known double rhomboid form of crystals .
" The crystals which we found , however , were deZ^d ^ the fluid after the solution of the corpuscles under the action of ammonium hydrate .
01 Sulpho- Cyanide of Ammonium , .
The action of this reagent on the coloured blood-corpuscle is perhaps , one of the most interesting which we have examined\#151 ; not only as regards its immediate action , but also as regards the ultimate effect produces upon the nucleus in which it reveals an intranuclear plexus of fibrils with the greatest distinctness .
( Fig. 8 a 5 ) On irrigating blood with a 10 per cent , solution'of this'salt the corpuscles first became somewhat larger , and clear bands appeared in the perinuclear part .
( Fig. 6 , a. ) The direction of these bands was generally across the long axis of the corpuscles .
The corpuscle looked as if there were a series of folds or creases in it The effect was thus similar to the early effect produced by citric and tartaric acids upon the corpuscles , except that the clear bands were more numerous m the case of the salt .
The nucleus at the same time was brought out more distinctly , though still remaining pale , and the outline of its intranuclear plexus was faintly seen .
On selecting a corpuscle and observing the effect of the reagent closely , it was seen after a minute or two to lose its barred appearance , and then small , highly refractive , coloured globules began to form near the edge of the corpuscle .
These small globules were soon seen on the outside of the corpuscle , to which they remained attached for a few seconds by a tailed process of their own substance .
The droplets began to exhibit active molecular or Brownian movements .
The processes connecting the globules to the outside of the corpuscle soon gave way , and then the spherical masses of coloured protoplasm began to dance about over the field of the microscope , in active molecular movement .
( Fig. 6 , c , d , e , / .
) The margin of the corpuscle was left crenated , or rather dentated , and from the dentations other small globules began to come off and dance about like their predecessors .
After some of these small globules were cast off , or at least after the threads which fixed them to the corpuscle were severed which one can see taking place in the field of the microscope , the corpuscle often assumes a variety of shapes , giving out a lobose process , which may also change its shape and dimensions .
( Fig. 6 , p , q. ) It is most interesting to watch the liberation of the droplets , and the variety of shapes assumed by the corpuscle .
The detached droplets gradually become decolorised .
The corpuscle begins to shrink visibly in size as the droplets extrude from it , and at the same time becomes daiker in colour .
The dentations disappear with the shrinking of the corpuscles , which commenced about five or six seconds after the first Action of certain Reagents upon Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
125 1 v Wwm seen on the snrface of the corpuscle .
The outline of the ^ ' nHnle while shrinking was more or less irregular , and the droplets continued to form on the margins of the corpuscles .
The corpuscles Ze obviously in a very plastic condition , rf one may judge from the ease6with which they changed their shape .
Ultimately the corpuscle or rather what remained of it\#151 ; became condensed into a small globular mass of a dark yellow colour , usually with the pale nucleus m ? .
centre .
In a short time the nucleus which had hitherto been but slightly affected , suddenly expanded to a considerable extent , sometimes breaking up in the process . .
A beautiful intranuclear plexus of fibrils was then seen to exist m the interior of the nucleus .
( Fig. 8 , a , fe .
) With the swelling up of the nucleus , the rest of the corpuscles underwent complete decolori-sation .
Traces of a stroma were detectable in the colourless hull of the corpuscle . .
, , , , .
Ultimately the microscopic field contained a large mumber of nuclei , now considerably enlarged , and each one containing a beautiful view of its intranuclear plexus of fibrils .
It was obvious that the nucleus had become enlarged through the swelling up of the material\#151 ; what-ever its nature\#151 ; which lies within the meshes of the plexus .
The fibrils themselves are also enlarged , and they bound meshes which in some cases are polygonal , in others hexagonal in shape .
This reagent Shows the intranuclear plexus quite as distinctly as ammonium chromate .
On subsequently staining the distended nuclei with magenta or fuchsin , the plexus becomes stained , and they present a singularly fine demonstration of the arrangement of the fibrils .
They may be kept for a considerable time .
One cannot fail to notice how closely the phenomena above described agree with the action of certain other reagents upon the blood-corpuscles\#151 ; notably a 5 per cent , solution of ammonium chromate which shows the separation of particles of the haemoglobin in the form of droplets of the most bizarre forms , and the changes of shape with the utmost distinctness .
A strong solution of urea exerts an almost similar action upon the coloured corpuscles\#151 ; and so does heat , as was described by Max Schulze .
Somewhat similar phenomena were observed by G\ F. Dowdeswell* in the blood of man and the dog when acted upon by septic matter , such as an aqueous extract of putrid muscle .
These phenomena closely resemble the results obtained on human blood by Dr. Wm. Addison , f F.R.S. , with pale sherry , either alone or in combination with various substances .
Coloured corpuscles of amphibian blood have been observed by Rindfleisch and Beale to undergo remarkable changes in shape .
* " Quart .
Joum .
of Mic .
Se .
, " .1881 , p* 154 .
f " Proc. Roy .
So .
, " vol. 10 , p. 186 .
Dr. W* .
Stirling and A. Rannie .
matin-containing contend il 'thVceTl ave no membrane .
Bealef found similar forms with long thread-like became separated from the parent corpuscle when a drop of blood was warmed .
Sometimes another series of phenomena is obtained .
Large glo-bular or flask-shaped processes are given off from the margins of e corpusc es .
( Fig. 6 , p , q. ) It may be at one side or on both Some of hem become detached , and coalesce to form globular or semi-globular large masses , which float off into the surrounding fluid , and are ultimately dissolved .
Ultimately the nucleus undergoes the same changes as have already been described .
Sulpha-Cyanide of Potassium .
A 10 per cent , solution of this suit , gare exactly the same results as the corresponding salt of ammonium .
Ammonium Chromate .
When a drop of frog 's blood was mixed in the cold with a drop of a per cent , solution of this salt , the corpuscles were first observed to take on the barred appearance of the perinuclear part , described as part of the effect of citric , tartaric , and other acids , \amp ; c. The nucleus was more distinctly seen and was pale and slightly granular .
Small coloured droplets were soon observed to form at the margin or periphery of the corpuscles .
The corpuscles then usually became more or less regularly crenated , and the small yellow coloured droplets began to assume a beaded appearance on the surface or edges of the corpuscles .
hey then began to exhibit active Brownian movements .
The cor-puscles had by this time again become homogeneous in appearance , and appeared to be very mobile or plastic , as they changed their shape with great facility .
The corpuscles diminished in size as the coloured droplets passed out , while at the same time the crenation disappeared , and the outline of the corpuscles became more or less uneven .
The coloured part of the corpuscles often became aggregated into two or three or more rounded masses , causing a projection at those points .
The corpuscle thus often had a dumb-bell , triradiate , or stellate form with rounded angles .
Very often one or more of these knobs would become pedunculated , and at length break off from the corpuscle .
Sometimes a corpuscle would be seen floating about with several of these coloured globular masses attached to it by long processes , while but a very small amount of colouring matter remained * Prcyer , " Virchow 's Archiv , " vol. xxx , p. 432 .
t " Trans. Mic .
Soc. , " vol. xii , N.S. , p. 32 , and " Quart .
Journ. Mic .
Sc. , " vol. iv , N.S. , 1864 .
Action of certain Reagents upon Coloured Blood-Corpuscles .
127 Lround the nuclei .
The processes attaching the masses of coloured ( matter to the nucleus often appeared to be membranous iu character .
Many of the corpuscles ultimately became perfectly spherical , the .nucleus being indistinctly seen in the centre or at one side .
These spherical corpuscles were often seen to contain several globular masses ( grouped usually around the nucleus .
Very often the ultimate effect was to leave the nucleus with a dark yellow rounded knob of the !
coloured part of the corpuscle at either end of it .
Sometimes the 5 whole of the coloured part of the corpuscle had disappeared , leaving ' the nucleus pale and swollen , and with indications of a plexus in its I interior .
( These peculiar forms which the corpuscles assume may be preserved some time by sealing up the preparation .
) [ From some of the corpuscles long delicate processes were observed to pass .
Some of these processes appeared to be made up of minute globules of coloured material which had coalesced to form a continuous bead-like string .
They resembled very much the processes seen passing from the blood-corpuscles of the frog after treatment with a 20 per cent , solution of urea .
Other processes appeared to be of a membranous character , and were tipped at their free extremities by a minute coloured globule .
All these processes were remarkable for their length , which was sometimes several times that of the corpuscle itself .
They were more easily induced in the corpuscles by gently heating the slide over a spirit-lamp .
If some of the blood of a newt be kept for forty-eight hours in a 5 per cent , solution of ammonium chromate , it will be found on examining it that in most of the corpuscles the perinuclear part has entirely disappeared , leaving the nucleus much swollen and of a globular form .
An intranuclear plexus with wide meshes is seen .
The nucleus stains readily\#151 ; though not very deeply\#151 ; with picro- .
carmine , the interior of the nucleus becoming reddish in colour and the envelope yellowish .
( Various forms assumed by the corpuscles are shown in Fig. 7 .
) The action of this substance on the coloured blood-corpuscles of the frog is accurately described by Mr. Dowdeswell as far as regards the extension , retraction , and detaching of the protuberances , and he remarks that no rupture of a membrane , or anything of the kind , was to be seen , even with a power of 1,000 diameters .
Dr. Klein* has also shown the immense importance of this substance for a variety of purposes , but especially for revealing the fibrillar plexuses within cells and nuclei , e.g. , in non-striped muscle , \amp ; c. Urea .
A 20 per cent , solution of urea first caused the corpuscles to become * " Quart .
Joum .
Mic .
Sc. , " 1878 , 1879 .
128 Dr. W. Stirling and A. Rannie .
crenated and then to assume a globular form .
This change to % globular form occurred for the most part suddenly with a recoil or jerk .
At the same time processes were usually thrown out from the corpuscles , sometimes to a considerable distance .
Usually the cor , puscle itself underwent considerable changes in shape .
The nucleus could not be seen .
Small coloured droplets became extruded from the corpuscle and danced over the field of the microscope with active molecular movements .
Sometimes the action of the reagent was less vigorous\#151 ; due to less being present\#151 ; and then the corpuscles gradually became globular , the sudden recoil not being observed .
The crenation was observed as before , and then the corpuscle began to diminish in size , owing to the formation and detaching of its plastic coloured substance .
All the corpuscles ultimately become spherical and very much lessened in bulk , and then gradually become decolorised .
From some of those which had been of a globular form for some time long delicate beaded processes were observed to pass .
Kolliker* found that solutions of urea of 15 per cent , and upwards produced similar changes in frog 's blood .
" The coloured blood-corpuscles became gradually more jagged , and some became transformed into the most beautiful stellate cells with at most three to six tolerably long and more flask-like processes .
The latter began as it were to dissolve and disappear , partly by their margins being dissolved , and partly by small coloured particles being detached from their surface .
These particles at once became pale and gradually disappeared .
At last there remained only the nucleus-containing portion of the cell , as a small , round , dark red , refractive globule , which eventually became pale , and which , even to the nucleus , disappeared without leaving a trace behind .
" Preyer agrees that the .above description is accurate , with the exception of the part which refers to their becoming pale , which Preyer ascribes to the action of water .
Indeed , Preyer f obtained similar results by allowing a drop of solution of urea to evaporate on a slide and then placing a drop of blood upon the thin crystalline layer of urea thus formed .
The results he obtained are carefully figured , and they agree exactly with the results we have obtained .
The interest which attaches to the solvent action of urea is considerable , but the remarkable variety of shapes and the detaching of droplets from the corpuscles are also interesting , more especially as urea is only one of a number of reagents which cause a similar reaction .
We propose to continue our observations upon the effects of the foregoing and other reagents upon human blood or mammalian blood generally , which will form Part II .
* V. Siebold u. KSlliker 's " Zeitsoh .
f. Wiss .
Zoolog .
, " vol. vii , 1855 , p. 183 .
t " Virchow 's Archiv f. Path .
Anat .
, " vol. xxx , p. 432 .
Dr. Tyndall .
On Carbonic Acid and Bisulphide of Carbon .
129 DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Effect of pyrogallic acid solution upon the red blood-corpuscles of the newt , " 2 .
Effect of gallic acid .
3 .
Effect of hydrochloric acid .
4 .
Effect of oxalic acid .
" 5 .
Effect of carbolic acid .
\#166 ; - 6 .
Various forms assumed by the corpuscles when acted upon by ammonium sulphocyanide or potassic sulphocyanide .
t* 7 .
Various forms produced by the action of ammonium chromate .
" 8 .
Shows final effect of ammonium sulphocyanide on the nucleus , yiz .
, to reveal an intranuclear plexus .
April 5 , 1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a hitherto unobserved Resemblance between Carbonic Acid and Bisulphide of Carbon .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received March 15 , 1883 .
Chemists are ever on the alert to notice analogies and resemblances in the atomic structure of different bodies .
They long ago indicated points of resemblance between bisulphide of carbon and carbonic acid .
In the case of the latter we have one atom of carbon united to two of oxygen , in the case of the former one atom of carbon united to two of sulphur .
Attempts have been made to push the analogy still further by the discovery of a compound of carbon and sulphur analogous to carbonic oxide , but hitherto , I believe , without success .
I have now to note a resemblance of some interest to the physicist , and of a more subtle character than any hitherto observed .
When , by means of an electric current , a metal is volatilized and subjected to spectrum analysis , the " reversal " of the bright band of the incandescent vapour is commonly observed .
This is known to be due to the absorption of the rays emitted by the hot vapour in the partially cooled envelope of its own substance which surrounds it .
The effect is the same in kind as the absorption by cold carbonic acid of the heat emitted by a carbonic qxide flame .
For most sources of VOL. xxxv .
K

