The Emission and Transmission of Rontgen Rays .
By G. W. C. Kaye , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , A.R.C.Sc .
, Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 17 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) A Rontgen ray tube was designed with an anticathode which consisted of a ' number of elements mounted on a small car .
By means of an external magnet the car could be moved , and any element desired brought under the beam of cathode rays .
The Rontgen rays produced ( by a coil discharge ) passed out through a thin aluminium window , and their intensity was measured by an ionisation method .
Some twenty elements were used as anticathodes , and the effects upon their radiations of a number of different metal screens were investigated .
The results of the work give rise to the following conclusions:\#151 ; 1 .
The relative intensities of the radiations as they issue from the window of the tube , unobstructed by any screen , do not follow the order of the atomic weights of the anticathodes .
The order shows agreement with that given by Stark for the relative numbers of cathode rays returned by metallic reflectors .
The intensities indicate a grouping of the elements which agrees with , and in features is similar to , that arrived at by Barkla and Sadler from a consideration of the secondary Rontgen rays .
2 .
Over a certain region , when screen and radiator are of the same metal , selective transmission of the radiation is manifested , that is , the radiation from the metal is augmented relative to the radiations from other anticathodes .
The effect is also present to a less extent when radiator and screen have closely adjoining atomic weights .
3 .
This augmentation , when radiator and screen are alike , is most pronounced in the case of the metals of the chromium-zinc group .
It is least marked for a substance of low atomic weight such as aluminium , which of the metals tried can be regarded as the most suitable for screens to measure ray intensities .
4 .
Generally speaking , the lower the atomic weight of a metal in a group the softer is the radiation for which it shows special transparency .
5 .
If the different radiations are cut down by aluminium screens of increasing thickness , the intensities reach ultimate relative values which are not altered by a further increase in the thickness of the screen .
These intensities when plotted against the atomic weights of the radiators yield , 338 The Emission and Transmission of Rays .
Toughly speaking , a straight line .
The relative values of the heavy-atom metals increase somewhat with a rise in potential on the tube .
There is reason to believe that screens of other metals would eventually yield much the same sort of curve , modified slightly in the neighbourhood of the atomic weight of the radiator .
6 .
When screen and radiator are alike , the absorption per unit mass of unit area of the screen ( X/ p ) is relatively low .
One of the consequences of this is that the shape of Benoist 's " transparency " curve , besides depending on the range and degree of absorption , is largely dependent on the material of the anticathode .
Bor example , the curve is much straighter for a radiator of aluminium than for one of platinum working under the same conditions .
With an anticathode belonging to the chromium-zinc group the .
transparency curve has to be modified by the addition of a sharp maximum in the neighbourhood of the radiator .
Barkla and Sadler have obtained a similar result in the case of secondary Bontgen rays .
7 .
The question of the atomic weight of nickel is gone into , and an explanation put forward to account for the anomalous results obtained with the secondary radiation from this element .
8 .
The curve of transmission in which the thickness of screen is plotted as abscissa against the logarithm of the intensity consists , in general , of three parts when radiator and screen are of the same metal .
First with thin screens there is a relatively steep portion , which for thicker screens is followed by a straight-line region ; this again is ultimately succeeded by one in which the slope gradually diminishes with the thickness of the screen .
Corresponding to the straight-line portion of the curve there is , of course , an exponential absorption .
The extent of this region diminishes with the potential on the tube .
The preliminary steepness is attributed to secondary radiation ; the extent of the steepening for each metal agrees with that obtained by McClelland working with the / 3-rays of radium .
The ultimate flattening of the curve is probably due both to scattering and to the presence of hard primary rays .
This latter region may not be detectable if the potential on the tube is not too high ; the absorption curve then indicates homogeneity throughout its length .
9 .
When screen and radiator have very different atomic weights , the region of exponential absorption does not appear .
The early portion of the logarithmic curve is steepened by secondary radiation , but throughout the whole region the transmission is one in which the coefficient of absorption steadily diminishes as the thickness of screen increases .
This result is brought about in the early stages chiefly by scattering , and in the later stages by the heterogeneity of the primary beam of rays .

