3 .
" Discussion of the Magnetical Observations made by Captain Back , R.N. , during his late Arctic Expedition .
" By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. Part II .
The author proceeds , in this paper , which is a sequel to his former communication , to discuss the observations made by Captain Back re ?
lating to the magnetic intensity , and which were of two kinds ; the first , obtained by noting the times of vibration of a needle in the plane of the magnetic meridian ; the second , by noting the times of vibra ?
tion of three needles suspended horizontaily according to the method of Hansteen .
The results are given in the form of tables .
Before declucing results from these observations , the author describes a series of experiments instituted with each needle , for the purpose of determining the corrections necessary to be applied in order to reduce the intensities , which would result from observations made at different temperatures , to intensities at a standard temperature ; and he gives formulae for these corrections .
He then determines the relative terrestrial magnetic intensities , at the several stations where observations were made , from the times of vibration of the dip ?
ping needle in the plane of the meridian , applying the corrections which he had obtained for difference of temperature ; and gives the results in tables .
A comparison is instituted between these results and a formula derived from the hypothesis of two magnetic poles not far removed from the centre of the earth .
The author considers that this comparison is quite conclusive against the correctness of the for ?
mulae , and consequently of the hypothesis itself , if applied to the results deduced from the observations in London , in conjunction with those in America ; but that , in the tract of country comprised by Capt. Back 's observations from New York to the Arctic Sea , the phenomena of terrestrial magnetic intensity are very correctly represented by the formula in question .
The author then proceeds to determine the intensity from the observations with horizontal needles , applying here , likewise , to the results , corrections for the difference in the temperatures at which the observations were made .
In these results there are great discrepan ?
cies , which the author attributes to the inapplicability of Hansteen 's method of determining the intensity by the times of vibration of ho ?
rizontal needles to cases where the dip of the needle is very great , rather than to errors in the observations themselves , or to a variation in the magnetism of the needles employed .
He concludes by a just tribute to the zeal which Captain Back has manifested in the cause of science , by availing himself of every opportunity of making these tedious observations , during an unknown and perilous navigation

