329 1887.1 Dr. J. F. Main .
On the of Ice .
noted in the flakes of mica or any other mineral of somewhat like form scattered through the mass of the rock , sometimes approximating to a banding of the constituents , without any indication of this being the result of crushing .
In regard to this particular structure , it is worth notice that it often lies in planes making a low angle with the horizon .
( 3 .
) The same result may help to explain the assertion so frequently made , that among the older rocks the foliation ( or minor mineral banding ) is commonly parallel to the ( apparent ) stratification ( or major mineral banding ) .
This also I have noticed in cases where either there was no indication of subsequent crushing , or the latter had not effaced , and its effects could be distinguished from , the earlier structure of the rock .
I once supposed this parallelism and tendency to horizontality to be due to the weight of superimposed beds , but for some time have been dissatisfied with this explanation , because I could find no evidence that any heavy burden had been laid upon the older rocks till long after they had assumed a foliated structure .
Tension , however , would probably produce the structure at least as readily as pressure , and the former of course would , as a rule , act parallel with the surface of the earth 's crust , while compression should be exhibited commonly in planes making a high angle with it .
Y. " Note on some Experiments on the Viscosity of Ice.5 ' By J. F. Main , M.A. , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. W. C. Unwin , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of some experiments on the continuous extension of bars of ice subjected to tension , made during the last winter in the Engadine .
To eliminate the influence of regelation , the experiments have been carried on at such low temperatures as preclude the possibility of any effect being produced by this cause .
The highest temperatures during the experiments were \#151 ; 2'6 ' C. in Experiment I ; \#151 ; 1*0 ' C. in Experiment II ; and \#151 ; O'o0 C. in Experiment III .
These maximum temperatures only obtained for a very short time on one or two days .
The bars were tested in a compound lever testing machine with accurate knife edges , the load being a known weight of shot .
The whole apparatus was enclosed in a double wood box .
A delicate thermometer graduated to tenths of degrees , attached inside the box , gave the temperature at any given time , and the range of variation of temperature was recorded by two maximum and minimum thermometers , fi:e l inside to the roof of the inner box .
To obtain ice Dr. J. F. Main .
On Viscosity of Ice .
[ May 5 free from air , water was boiled and then frozen .
It was then melted and again frozen in a mould .
Some difficulty was found in holding the ice-bars in the testing machine .
The mode which answered best , was to freeze the ends of the ice bar into conical metal collars , which fitted the shackles of the machine .
Extensions were measured by vernier callipers reading to one-fiftieth of a millimetre between marked points on the metal collars .
To determine if any appreciable effect was due to distortion of the enlarged ends of the bars in the metal collars , pieces of paper were gummed on the ice , and the extensions also measured between fine pencil marks on these pieces of paper .
It was found that nearly all the stretching observed in measuring between the metal collars was due to stretching of the bar of ice , and only a very small part to shearing action in the collars .
In consequence of rapid evaporation from the surface of the ice bar , the stress with a fixed load on the lever increased from day to day .
Three experiments are given on bars initially about 234 mm. in length , loaded to stresses of from 4'3 to 2'0 kilos , per square cm .
, and lasting from four to nine days .
i he three experiments show that ice subjected to tension stretches continuously by amounts which depend on the temperature and the tensile stress .
When the stress is great and the temperature not very low , there are extensions amounting to 1 per cent , of the length per day .
So continuous and definite is the extension , that it can even be measured from hour to hour .
These extensions took place at temperatures which preclude the possibility of melting and regelation .
The author hopes that on resuming the experiments next winter at St. Moritz , he may be able to determine more exactly the law of the extension .
He has shown already that the extension increases continuously with all stresses above 1 kilo , per square cm .
, and at all temperatures between \#151 ; 6 ' C. and freezing .
WFen ice is in a condition such that the point of a needle will cause a set of radiating fractures to pass from the point of contact in all directions , it stretches as certainly , though not by so great an amount , as when it will permit the passage through it of the same needle without showing flaw or scar .
In the first experiment there was a total extension of 11 .
mm. in nine days ; in the second of T8 mm. in five days ; in the third of T7 mm. in three days .
If we assume the extension proportional to the time , there was a mean daily extension of T2 mm. , 036 mm. , and 0'56 mm. respectively .
The stress in No. 1 was greater than in Nos. 2 and 3 , and the temperature not so very low in the day , though low at night .
In No. 3 there was a low stress , but comparatively high temperature .

