The reading of a Paper , entitled , " On the Correction of a Pen ?
dulum for the reduction to a vacuum , together with Remarks on some Anomalies observed in Pendulum Experiments , " by Francis Bailey , Esq. F.R.S. , ?
was commenced .
June/ , 1832 .
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF SUSSEX , K.G. President , in the Chair .
Lord Henry John SpencerChurchill ; the Hon. George Charles Agar , M.A. ; John Disney , Esq. ; James Clark , M.D. ; James Hope , M.D. ; the Venerable George Glover , M.A. ; Michael Thomas Sadler , Esq. M.P. ?
Lieut. William Samuel Stratford , R.N. ; James David Forbes , Esq. , and Howard Elphinstone , Esq. M.A. , were elected Fellows of the Society .
Baron Damoiseau of Paris , Professor de Blainville of Paris , Professor Carlini of Milan , Professor Cauchy of Paris , and Professor Tiedemann of Heidelberg , were elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The reading of Mr. Baily 's Paper on the Pendulum , was resumed and concluded .
The author observes , thatin all the experiments hitherto made with the pendulum , a very important correction , depending on the influence of the circumambient air , has been omitted ; and that the philosophical world is indebted to M. Bessel for having first drawn the attention of the public more immediately to this subject .
For , although Newton evidently suspected that such an influence existed , and although the subject had been since fully discussed by the Chevalier du Buat , nearly 50 years ago , yet it does not appear that any of the distinguished individuals , employed by the different Governments in making experiments on the pendulum in more recent times , have had any notion that the effect of the air , on the moving body , was any other than that depending on its density ; and consequently varying in amount according to the specific gravity of the metal of which the pendulum might be composed .
But M. Bessel has shown that a quantity of air is also set in motion by the pendulum ( varying according to its form and construction ) , and thus a compound pendulum is in all cases produced , the specific gravity of which will be much less than that of the metal itself .
M. Bessel 's principal experiments for establishing the accuracy of this principle , were made with two spheres , about two inches in diameter , differing from each other very considerably in specific gravity , one being of brass , and the other of ivory , and each suspended by a fine steel wire .
The author of the present paper , however , pursued another and a very different course for obtaining the same end : namely , by swinging the same pendu ?
lum first in free air , and afterwards in a highly rarefied medium , nearly approaching to a vacuum .
From the difference in the results , he deduces a factor ( denoted by n ) , by which the old , and hitherto received , correction must be multiplied in order to obtain the new and more accurate correction indicated by M. Bessel ; and which , in the case of the two spheres above mentioned , is found by that author to be equal to P9o .
But Mr. Bailey , instead of confining himself to spheres of this size , and composed of these two substances only , has extended his inquiries to pendulums of various magnitudes , substances and forms .
His first recorded experiment is on Borda 's platina sphere , the diameter of which is 1*44 inches ; and he found that the old correction must in this casebe multiplied by 1*88 in order to obtain the true and accu ?
rate correction ; or , in other words , that the old correction was but little more than half what it ought to be .
The author then tried three other spheres of precisely the same diameter , but differing considerably in specific gravity : namely , lead , brass , and ivory , all of which gave nearly the same result ; the mean of the whole being n=1 86 .
He next proceeded to spheres of the size used by M. Bes ?
sel , made of three different substances , viz. lead , brass , and ivory .
These gave a result ( agreeing very well with each other , ) somewhat smaller than the former ; the mean of the whole being w=1 -75 : thus showing that the factor for the additional correction is due to the form and magnitude of the moving body , and not to its weight or specific gravity .
This last value , as the author observes , differs from that deduced by M. Bessel as above mentioned ; but the cause of the discordance does not appear .
The author then shows the effect produced on cylinders of various kinds , both solid and hollow , and suspended in different ways , ?
on lenses , on cylindrical rods , on bars , on tubes , on convertible pendu ?
lums , and on several clock pendulums , amounting to upwards of 40 in number .
The results of these experiments give in each case a different value for the factor n ; and which appears to depend on the extent of surface , in proportion to the bulk of the body exposed to the direct action of the air when in motion : further experiments , however , are requisite to establish this point in a satisfactory manner* .
But , in the author 's opinion , enough is shown to indicate the necessity and propriety of a revision and correction of all the experiments hitherto made with the pendulum , either for the determination of its absolute length , or for ascertaining the true figure of the earth ; and that for this purpose , the true correction must be found from actual experiment in each particular case ; since , with very few exceptions , it cannot be determined by any mathematical deduction .
Mr. Bailey then proceeds to point out some singular discordances arising from the knife-edge mode of suspending the pendulum , where the same knife-edge and the same agate planes are employed .
From which he is led to infer that the pendulum furnished with a knife-edge and agate planes , as at present constructed , is a very inadequate instrument for the delicate purposesfor which itwas originally intended ; and that a more rigid examination of that part of the instrument is requisite , before we can rely with confidence on the accuracy of the results obtained by it .
Some anomalies are then pointed out in the magnitude of the are of vibration , and some remarks offered on the supposed inadequacy of the usual formula for determining the correction for the are ; but the author considers it desirable that further experiments should be made for the more accurate determination of this point .
In conclusion , the author expresses a doubt of the rigid accuracy of the length of the seconds pendulum , as deduced from the recent experiments of Captain Sabine .
To the whole are appended tables exhibiting the details of all the experiments made by the author , and the corrresponding results .

