VII .
Some Account of Cretinism .
By Henry Reeve , M. D. of Norwich .
Communicated by William Hyde Wollaston , M. D. Sec. R. S. Read February 11 , 1808 .
FELIX PLATER , in one of his observations , gives the history of a species of mental imbecility , which he saw in passing through the village of Bremis in the Valais .
Cretinism , a word of uncertain derivation , is the name employed by the inhabitants of Switzerland to denote this disease , which is endemial in several districts of that country .
It had probably existed long in those parts ; for PLATER mentions cretins as being very common both in the Valais and in Carinthia , but the peculiar marks of these wretched beings were not generally known before he described them.* Mons. DE SAUSSURE has furnished the most minute and accurate account both of the appearances of the disorder , and of the circumstances which seem to produce it ; and Mr. COXE and several travellers have noticed the symptoms of cretinism , without adducing any satisfactory explanation of the causes to which it may be ascribed , MALACARNI of Turin and Professor ACKERMANN have given a very accurate description of several cretins that they dissected ; and besides some detached essays by different authors , a very full account of this malady is to be found in F. PLATERI Praxeos Medica , Cap. III .
Basil .
1656 .
an " Essai sir le Goitre et Cretinismepar M. FODERE , " published at Paris in 18oo .
My curiosity led me some time ago to inquire more particularly into the nature and causes of cretinism , because it is usually connected with goitre , or bronchocele ; I was indeed led to this inquiry , partly by the hope of discovering some function for the thyroid gland , more satisfactory than what is commonly alleged ; but in these expectations I have been disappointed .
In the summer of 1805 , I had an opportunity of seeing several cretins at Martigny and Sion , and other villages in the Valais ; and I was glad to compare what had been writ upon that subject , with what my own observation could suggest .
By inquiries on the spot , I intended to learn what connection subsisted between weakness of the intellectual faculties and the swelling of the thyroid gland : what were the moral and physical circumstances which could influence the condition of the inhabitants , so as to make idiocy so prevalent ; and what were the most efficient modes of relief .
The following results I beg leave to lay before the Royal Society .
Cretinism is found not only in the vallies of the Alps , both on the French and Italian side of these mountains , but in the mountainous parts of Germany and Spain ; and it was observed in Chinese Tartary by Sir GEORGE STAUNTON , in a part of that country much resembling Switzerland and Savoy in its alpine appearance .
The enlargement of the thyroid gland called goitre , is the most striking feature in the unsightly aspect of a cretin ; but this is not a constant attendant .
His head also is deformed , his stature diminutive , his complexion sickly , his countenance vacant and destitute of meaning , his 1 lI lips and eye-lids coarse and prominent , his skin wrinkled and pendulous , his muscles loose and flabby .
The qualitiesof his mind correspond to the deranged state of the body which .
it inhabits ; and cretinism prevails in all the intermediate degrees , 'froi excessive stupidity to complete fatuity , At a small village , not far distant from Martigny , I examined four cretins .
One lad , twelve years old , could speak a few words ; he was of a weak and feeble frame , silly , but had no goitre .
Another boy , nine years old , was deaf and dumb , idiotic , with no goitre , the only child of his mother , who has a large goitre which affects her respiration and her voice , though in other respects she is intelligent and well formed , and te father enjoys good health they are not natives of thi place .
I saw a family in which all the children were cretins ; theeldest died a year ago , a miserable object ; the second , a girl , twelve years old , is deaf and dumb and crosseyed , nd has a monstrous goitre , with just intelligence enough to comprehend a few natural signs ; the third , is a boy six years old , small and feeble , abdomen enlarged , no goitre , very feeble in mind and body , not entirely deficient in understanding ; the mother had a moderate sized goitre , but was quite:free from any mental affection ; the father neither goitrous nor stupid , but of a delicate constitution .
There is no necessary connexion between goitre and cretinism , notwithstanding the assertions and ingenious reasoning adduced by ` FODER E , It is probable , the one has been assumed asrthe cause of the other , from the enlargement of the thyroid gland being a frequent occurrence in cretins ; and as it forcibly strikes the observer from the deformity it occasions , this strong impressio ay ave con verted an accidental , though frequent occurrence , into a general and necessary cause .
Cretinism is frequently observed without any affection of the thyroid gland , and that gland is often very much enlarged without any affection of the intellectual faculties .
There seems to be some similarity between cretinism and rickets , as they both take place in infancy , are both characterized by feebleness of body , and sooner or later by feebleness of mind , and they both affect males and females equally ; but there is no sort of connexion between persons afflicted with bronchocele in England , and with rickets .
For although it might be granted , that there is some delicacy of frame in females about the period of pubescence when bronchocele usually occurs , yet neither irregular formation of the bones , nor weakness of the intellectual powers , are common symptoms attending bronchocele in Britain .
To what peculiarities then , in the physical constitution of certain districts , are we to ascribe the production of this singular malady ?
SAUSSURE'S description of the Valais is exceedingly precise and accurate , and the causes which he has alleged appear sufficient to account for the phenomena .
The vallies where cretinism is most frequent , are surrounded by very high mountains ; they are sheltered from the currents of air , and exposed to the direct and still more to the reflected rays of the sun .
The effluvia from the marshes are very strong , and the atmosphere humid , close , and oppressive .
All the cretins that I saw , were in adjoining houses , in the little village called La Batia , situated in a narrow corner of the valley , the houses being built up under ledges of the rocks , and all of them very filthy , very close , very hot , and misebrable habitations .
In villages situated higher up the mountain , 114 to cretins are to be seen , and the mother of one of the children told me , of her own accord , without my asking the question , that her child was quite a different being when he was up the mountain , as she called it , for a few days .
The production of cretinism , by the bad quality of the air and the food , the neglect of moral education , and other evils attendant upon poverty , is supported by facts so pointed , that the greater number of cases in mountainous districts where snow-water abounds , may safely be ascribed to these general causes .
The notion of snow-water being the cause of goitre , and consequently of cretinism , seems to have been derived from PLINY ( Lib. II .
cap. 37 , ) and copied byalmost every succeeing writer , because it coincided with their hypotheses of cold and crude matters , although directly contradicted by facts .
In the first place , persons born in places contiguous to the glaciers , who drink no other water than what flows from the melting of ice and snow , are not subject to this disorder ; and , secondly , the disorder is observed in places where snow isunknown .
The theory of water impregnated with calcareous matter being the cause , is equally unfounded ; because the common waters of Switzerland excel those of every other country in Europe for purity and flavour .
There is not a village , nor a valley , but what is enlivened by limpid rivulets or streams gushing from the rocks .
The water usually drank at La jBatia.and Martigny is from the river Dranse , which flows from : the glaier of St. Bernar , and falls into the Rhone ; it is remarkably free from earthy matter , and well tasted .
At Mart1ig , a the twoorree pumps , the water of which is pure.and equally fit for culinary purposes , but said to be ae Ix 1 unwhlesomie , without any good reason .
At Bern , the water is extremely pure , yet , as HALLER remarks , swellings of the thr8oa are liot uncommon in both sexes , although cretinism is rare .
With regard to the alleged causes of goitre , the general opinion of its being endemial in mountainous countries , is of no value , because the disease is rare in Scotland , and very common in the county of Norfolk .
The causes of cretinism begin to operate upon the system soon after , perhaps even before birth ; the want of energy in the parent is communicated to the offspring ; the children become deformed and cachectic very early in life , the growth and deveioement of the body is impeded , the abdomen becomes enlarged , and the glands swelled in'various degrees ; and the powers of the mind remain dormant , or become entirely obliterated , partly from want of proper organiz-ation ; , and pa-rtly from the total ' neglect of every thing like education .
' It might be expected , that the dissection of cretins would throw some light upon the series of phenomena associated together in the origin and progress of this singular affection ; but the people are so superstitious , that it is very difficult to procure bodies for anatomical examination .
However , some disseCtions have been made , and the appearances in the cranium are very curious .
From the description of a cretin 's skull by ACKERMANN , it appears that the cavity for the reception oif the pons varolii and medulla oblongata was completely obliterated , and that in which the cerebellum islodged so ruch diminished , that it scarcely exceeded one-third of its:naturai capacity .
The return of the venous blood must have been considerably impeded by the maB-confirmation of the foratniiin Appearances nearly similar were observed by MALACARNIiand by FODERE .
In the anatomical museum at Vienna , I saw a cretin 's skull , from which Professor PROCHASKA was so obliging as to permit me to have two drawings taken .
It is the cranium of a cretin , who died at the age of thirty , yet the fontanelle is not closed , the second set of teeth are not out of their sockets , and none of the bones are distinctly and completely formed .
The head is very large , the face small ; it is like the skull of an adult joined to the face of a child ; every part bears marks of irregularity in the growth and formation ; and irregular action must have been the concomitant of such a morbid structure , whether the appearances be considered as cause or effect .
The four angles of the os malae are not well defined ; the zygomatic and maxillary processes of this bone are wanting ; the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bone are very large , and exhibit no marks of union with the os mala ; the ossa nasi are very small ; the temporal bone is imperfectly formed ; the zygomatic process terminates at the coronoid process of the lower jaw ; the mastoid and styloid processes are wanting , and the pars petrosa remarkably small ; the squamous portion not distinctly marked ; the os occipitis unusually large , and numerous additional bones , ossa triquetra , along the whole course of the lambdoid suture .
These appearances will be readily seen by referring to the figures ; the other deviations of the natural structure corresponded with those already described by difirent writers .
There is no fact in , the natural history of man , that afl crd an argument so direct and so im pressive , in proof of the in11 ' fluence of physical causes on the mind , as cretinism .
It shows moreover , that the growth of every part is essentially connected with the conditions in which it is fit to exercise its peculiar functions ; and in this respect , it fares with the intellectual as with the bodily powers .
The most decisive argument in proof of this opinion is , that cretinism may be prevented by removing children from the confined and dirty places where it prevails , and nursing and educating them in the higher parts of the mountains .
Within these last ten years , the number of cretins has diminished , the condition of the lowest class of society is somewhat bettered , and more attention is paid towards that diseased constitution which is the forerunner of mental imbecility .
I did not find that the poor creatures took any pride in having any of their children idiots or bien heureux , as some authors assert ; on the contrary , the parents were very much ashamed of acknorwledging that any cretins belonged to their families ; and it was after repeated attempts , only by declaring myself to be a physician , that I could get access into their houses to examine any of these wretched beings in the humanl form .
The burnt sponge is known as a remedy for the goitre among the people where it is most prevalent ; but it is seldomr administered , because the disease is so common , that it does not attract notice , nor affect in general the ordinary functions of life .
And as to cretinism , that seems to be looked upon as belonging to indigence and poverty ; for in every place where I saw cretins , many well looking persons of both sexes resided , and these were , without exception , persons of a higher class in society , who lived in better houses , and could supply both their moral and physical necessities .
thiLod , Trans. MDCCCVIl./ aate lp.-8_ .
/ i Ii 'I I__j I ?
_ _I/ ?
_ _______1____1__1_1____.______1______1.____ __ __..__ ... ._ ?
_ ?
1^1__1__1 ___ ___._._ -1-"-1 -111------------ ?
------ ?
--------------------II IiIIIIIi t1 I 11 IiIiIII I I might perhaps have insisted more upon the analogy between cretinism and rickets , for there is a remarkable coincidence in the literary history of these two diseases , as well as in many other points .
GLISSON first described rickets , as it appeared in this country , in the middle of the seventeenth century , about the same time that PLATER mentions cretinism .
The origin of both names is equally obscure ; and since some of the remote causes are now discovered , it is to be hoped the diseases themselves will gradually disappear , and in some happier age be known only by description .

