472 Dr. R. Kennedy .
" On the Regeneration of Nerves .
" By Robert Kennedy , M.A. , B.Sc. , M.D. , Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor MoKendriok , F.R.S. Received January 7 , \#151 ; Read February 11 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The author treats the subject under the following heads I. A short historical and critical review of the books and papers which have appeared on the subject from the time of Cruik-shank ( 1776 ) .
II .
Clinical reports of four cases of secondary suture of nerves as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
Suture of the median and ulnar nerves six and a half months after division in the middle of the forearm .
There was total loss of sensation and motion in the distribution in the hand , and marked atrophic changes .
Three days after the operation , sensation commenced to return ; by the nineteenth day , touch was correctly localised on all parts of the fingers ; and by the end of the first month , sensation was almost perfect .
Improvement in motion was slow and imperfect .
2 .
Suture of the median three months after complete division above the wrist .
Sensation was lost in the median distribution , and opposition of the thumb was impossible .
There was marked atrophy of the thenar eminence .
Two days after the operation , sensation commenced to return .
Both sensation and motion speedily improved , and by the end of a year recovery was almost perfect .
3 .
A case in which the median , musculo-spiral , and ulnar were involved in cicatricial tissue at the seat of fracture at the elbow joint ; excision of portions from median and musculo-spiral , and suture , two months after accident .
There was total anaesthesia in the distribution of the affected nerves , and paralysis of the muscles .
Sensation , after the operation , commenced to return on the fourth morning , but made slow progress .
The case was under observation for six weeks only ' , at which time no improvement had occurred in motion , but sensation was present in the fingers .
4 .
Suture of the ulnar nerve eighteen months after division .
Sense of pain was totally lost in the ulnar distribution .
Five days after the operation , sense of pain returned in the little finger , and by six weeks , sensation was almost perfect , although motion had not improved .
III .
Deductions from the results of operation .
From the above results the author concludes that the early return On the Regeneration of Nerves .
of sensation must be regarded as indicating a restored conductivity of the divided nerve .
He holds that the theories which have hitherto been advanced to account for early return of sensation apart from reunion of the nerve , are inapplicable to cases where early return of sensation occurs from suture , performed after the lapse of several months from the time of section .
The imperfect return of motion he takes to be fully explained by the fact that the muscles have undergone great trophic change , or indeed total destruction , and that , therefore , their restitution must be slow , or may even be impossible .
IY .
Microscopical examination of the portions removed previous to suture .
Both the central and peripheral ends of nerves which had not reunited in any way , contained young nerve fibres grouped in bundles , each bundle containing , as a rule , many fibres .
The fibres contained an axis-cylinder lying in the centre of a clear , well-defined zone , which , again , contained a granular , myeline deposit , while spindle-shaped nuclei were attached to the sides of the fibres at frequent intervals .
Where the ends of the nerve were united by a cicatricial segment without conductivity being restored , the examination of the segment showed a dense network of connective tissue containing in its meshes bundles of young fibres .
The portions excised from the nerves involved at the seat of fracture showed at their central ends a normal structure , but elsewheie no trace of old myeline fibres , nor of degenerated fibres ; but the section was made up of young fibres in bundles , which bundles were of only slightly greater diameter than the old myeline fibres , and often surrounded by a delicate sheath .
At the point of transition from old to young fibres , many of the old myeline fibres contained an enlarged nucleus , with one or two distinct young fibres lodged between the sheath of Schwann and the myeline sheath .
In other cases the number of young fibres lying in a similar position was greater .
All stages up to complete replacement ; of the old myeline sheath and axis-cylinder by young fibres were found .
Y. Deductions from the microscopical examination .
1 .
Degeneration :\#151 ; ( a ) That there is no evidence of ascending degeneration of the kind described by Krause after interruption of a nerve .
( b ) That the old axis-cylinder and myeline sheath are destroyed in the peripheral segment , and in the ultimate portion of the central segment .
2 .
Regeneration :\#151 ; ( a ) That young nerve fibres are developed in the peripheral segment , as well as in the end of the central segment , and that even while there is no connexion between the two ends .
Proceedings and List of Papers read .
( b ) That these young nerve fibres originate within the old sheath of Schwann from the protoplasm and nucleus of the interannular segment .
The spindle-cells formed from the protoplasm and nuclei of the interannular segments elongate and unite to form protoplasmic threads , with the elongated nuclei attached to their sides .
The central portion of the protoplasmic thread develops into the axis cylinder , while myeline is deposited in drops in the protoplasm surrounding the newly formed axis-cylinder .
The protoplasm in which the myeline is deposited remains with the nucleus as the neuroblast of the new interannular segment .
( c ) That so long as conductivity of the nerve is not re-established , the development of the fibres proceeds only to a certain stage , and as the new fibres three months and eighteen months subsequent to division present identical characters , this stage may be regarded as a resting stage , depending for its further development on re-establishment of function .
( d ) That cicatricial intercalary segments reuniting the ends of a divided nerve may be permeated by young fibres from end to end without re-establishment of function , if the amount of cicatricial connective tissue present in the mass is sufficient by its pressure to prevent the passage of impulses .
February 18 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. On the Iron Lines present in the Hottest Stars .
Preliminary Rote .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. II .
On the Significance of Bravais ' Formuhe for Regression , \amp ; c. , in the case of Skew Correlation .
" By G. Udny- Yule .
Communicated by Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. HI .
Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
On a Form of Spurious Correlation which may arise when Indices are used in the Measurement of Organs .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
IV .
" Note to the Memoir by Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , on Spurious Correlation .
" By Francis Galton , F.R.S.

