]\gt ; 1884 .
] Prof. Malet 's Invariants and Sir J. Cockle 's iticoids .
45 testing , repeated heating and cooling , combined with oscillations for a great number of hours and long rest , having had the effect of rendering the iron much less susceptible to alteration of torsional rigidity from change of temperature .
At the present stage of the inqu1ry it is impossibJe to arrive at any definite conclusion as to any reIationship between the viscosity of metals and their specific electrical resistance .
It would seem indeed in the case of the pure metals , those which have the greatest viscosity , such as lead and tin , are those whose specific electrical resistance is comparatively great , but even with the pure metals so many circumstances influence the loss of enelgy that a much more extended investigation must be made ere one can write with sufficient certainty on the point .
In the case of the alloys , German silver , platinum-silver , and brass , the values of the logarithmic decrements do not seem to be greater than those pertaining to their whereas as regards specific electrical resistance we know that this is not so .
Again we encounter the curious fact that whereas with iron the electrical resistance is more increased by rise of temperature than is the case with any other metal , the logarithmic decrement is on the contrary creased by the same cause .
A review of the whole expeliments shows that loss of due to internal friction of a torsionally vibrating wire does not accord with laws of fluid friction , but with thoss of external friction , inasmuch as the loss of energy from internal friction , like from external friction , is to a great extent independent of the Whether with external as with internal friction the loss of energy would be independent of the pressure provided the molecules of two surfaces were into very close , remains yet to be decided . .
" " Professor Malet 's Classes of Invariants identified with Sir James Cockle 's iticoids.\ldquo ; By the .
ROBERT HARLEY , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1884 .
Read December 18 .
1 .
Professor Malet , in a paper entitled " " On a CIass of , ' ' printed in the " " Philosophical Transactions\ldquo ; for 1882 , Part III , pp. 751-776 , says he has not seen it noticed by any mathematicia11 that ' ' in the theory of Linear Differential Equations there are two importallt classes of functions of the coefficicnts which have remarkable analogies to the invariants of Algebraic Binary Quantics He then proceeds to determine the forms of such functions , and to give examples of their application .
Soon aftel .
the publication of the abstract of Professor Malet 's paper in the Proceedings of the Society ( vol. 33 , 46 Rev. Robert .
Prof. Malet 's lnvariants [ Dec. 18 , p. 215 ) I ventured to write to him , calling his attention to the theory of criticoids , and suggesting that it might be convenient to compare his results with those obtained by Sir James Cockle , to whom the theory of criticoids is due .
2 .
In a footnote to his paper , which I have only lately seen , Professor Malet that having consulted the memoirs to which I referred him , he thinks " " little similarity will be found between Sir James Cockle 's results\ldquo ; and his own .
The object of this communication is to show that there is not only similal , but absolute identity , the two classes of nctions considered by Professor Malet coinciding in every point with the ordinary and diiferential criticoids Qcussed by Sir James Cockle .
The researches of the latter mathematician on this subject have appeared at intervals of time in papers scattered and often fragmental.y , in different jonrnals during the last twenty years and more .
I propose here to reproduce and present in a connected form the principal portions of those researches ; and in order to facilitate the comparison of results , I will generally adopt the notation employed by Professor Malet .
3 .
In a paper , the first of a series , *bearing date 24th Dscember , 1861 , Sir James Cockle shows that to every form of where are functions of only , there is a cognate form deducible by the following method .
Let or , more simpiy , , be any function of , and substitute for in the given equation , then whel.e , and so that ; or , developing and reducing by the substitution of for we have ' * ' On Linear Differential Equations of the Second \ldquo ; " " The Oxford , ridge , and Dublin Messenger of Mathematics vol. , pp. 118-124 , 164-173 , 241-247 .
See also " " On the Integration of Differential Equations " " Mathe- matical Beprint of the Educational Times 1868 , vol. ix , pp. 105-112 .
1884 .
] idenhfied with Sir J. Cockle 's C'riticoids .
which is Professor Malet 's function H. 4 .
In the third paper of the same series it is noticed that the ' ' characteristic\ldquo ; remains after the substitution of for ; and that if the given lineal differential equation be soluble , then and therefore also are soluble , the last two equations being connected by the relation 5 .
But these and other resuIts are included in the more general forms subsequently deduced from the linear differential equation of the nth order .
It is slIown that the form of the function is independent of the order of the differential equations .
6 .
" " There are critical fuuctions of the coefficients of differential equations analogous to those functions ' of the theory of ebraic equations which , in the theory of quantics , are termed leading coefficients of covariants , peninvariants , or seminvariants.\ldquo ; By a critical function of the roots or coefficients of an ebraic e tion is meant a function which remains unaltered when each of the roots is inol.eased or diminislIed by any whatever , or remains unaltered when x is substituted for in a given equation in ; it is in fact what Professor Cayley calls a iant , that is , a function which is reduced to zero by one only of the operators which reduce to zero an invariant .
The forms of these functions are now well known .
About forty years ago Sir James Cockle called attention to them in the pages of the " " Mathematician.\ldquo ; Since then he has discussed them more fully in other .
pointing out the * Cockle .
" " Correlations of Analysis " " Philosophical Magazine\ldquo ; for 1862 , vol. 24 , ser. , S 2 .
Cockle .
" " On the Transformation of Equation " " Mathematician , No. 2 , March , 1844 , pp. 82-84 also ; vol. iii , No. 4 , November , 1848 , pp. 176-178 ; and Supplement , No. 7 , September , 1850 , pp. 27-34 .
Cockle .
" " On the Existence of Finite Algebraic Solutions of the Genertll Equations of the Fifth , Sixth , and Higher Degrees Magazine , ' ' 1 ol .
28 , ser. iu , March , 1846 , pp. 190 , 191 .
" " On Crilical and Spencian Functionls , with Remarks upon Spence 's Theory " " Journal of Mathematics , pp. 97-111 .
" " On the General Forms of Functions ibid. , pp. and let the transformed equation be ; then we have , by Leibnitz 's theorem , and therefore , making , 2 , 3 , \amp ; c. , successively , developing , and denoting differentiations by accents , , \amp ; c. The elimination of , \amp ; c. , by process employed in dealing with diiferential equations of the second order , gives . . . . .
( H ) . . .
( I ) which are identical with Professor Malet 's functions , I respectively .
Tho method by which Professor Malet derives these functio1ls does not seem to me to differ in any essential particular from the method followed by Sir James Cockle , as indicated above .
In order to determine the function I , the process is here carried a step further than it is carried by its inventor in his earlier investigations ; but it is proper to mention that the explicit form of that function is after*Warren .
" " Illustrations of the Theory of Functions " " Quarterly Journal of Mathematics vol. , pp. 231-237 .
" " of the Seminvariants or Critical Functions Part u , ibid. , pp. 372-382 .
1884 .
] identifed with Sir J. Cockle 's Criticoids .
4 wards given in a paper on Criticoids , *where other resul ts obtained by Professor Malet are anticipated .
For example , it is shown that when , by the usual process , the differential equation is deprived of its second term , it takes the form ; and this is identical with Professor Malet 's equation ( 2 ) .
8 .
In same paper the author defines what he means by criticoids , and indicates the different methods by which these functions may be calculated .
He says , " " A criticoid stands in the same relation to a factorially transformed linear differelltial equation that a critical function fulfils with respect to a linearly transformed algebraical equation The word quantoid is used to signify " " the sinister of a linear differential equaticn whereof the dexter is zero is called a icriticoid , a cubicriticoid , and I a quarticriticoid of the general quantoid , the degrees of the criticoids being the greatest suffices which occur in them respectively .
These criticoids are called basic ; they are so called on account of their simplicity .
" " In each only one single differential coefficient occurs , and inbo each the coefficient of greatest suffix and the differential coefficient enter only linearly , neither being multiplied into the other or into any or other non-numerical coefficient There are no quadricriticoids which are not functions or multiples of , and no iticoids which are not functions or multiples of ; but all functions of where is arbitrary , are quarticriticoids .
9 .
In conclnding an inquiry into the analogies between algebraical and differential critical functions , Sir James Cockle anticipates Professor Malet 's proof of the general theorem on which the doctrine of criticoids rests , showing that as the transformation of a quantic by a linear substitution leaves the critical functions unaltered , so the transformation of a quantoid by a factorial substitution leaves the criticoids unaltered .
( Compare Cockle on ' Criticoids Arbicle 10 , with lfalot on a " " Class of Invariants p. 752 .
) There are three ways of calculating ordinary criticoids .
First , by elimination ; secondly , by depriving the quantic of its seco1ld term ; thirdly , by meftns of hyperdistributives , a process which it is not necessary to explain here , but * Cockle .
" " On Criticoids " " Magazine\ldquo ; March , 1870 , vol. 39 , ser. iv , pp. 201-211 .
Cockle .
" " On vperdistribntives , \ldquo ; " " Magazine\ldquo ; for 1872 , vol. 43 , ser. , pp. 300-305 .
VOL. XXXVIII .
50 Rev. Robert Harley .
Prof. Malet 's Invariants [ Dec. 18 , which will be found to possess distinct advantages over the other two ; it is more direct , perfectly general , and easy of application ; moreover , it determines the criticoids in their simplest , that is , basic forms .
10 .
Besides the class of functions hitherto considered , is another class of a criticoidal nature , the discovery of which is also due to Sir James Cockle .
Treating the term Critical as goneric , we have at least two species , namely , the algebraical critical species , now commonly as seminvariants , and the differential critical species , or criticoids , of which there are at least two varieties , namely , the , and that which Sir James Cockle calls the differential criticoid .
But in fact both varieties are differential criticoids , the true distinction between them being that one set of functions remains unaItered when the quantoid is transformed by orial substitution , and the other when the transformation is effected by change of the independent variable .
With the , Professor Malet 's second class of invariants may bs readily identified .
11 .
Consider tlJe equation of the third order and suppose that , by a change of the independent variable , this is transformed into ; then , denoting differentiations with respect to by acute accents , and with respect to by grave accents , and remembering that , we have , by the usual formulae , ; and therefore , since ; or , what is the same thin Similarly , it is shown that 1884 .
] identified with Sir J. Cockle 's Criticoids .
51 These relations are by Sir James Cockle , since they are obviously the same as Professor Malet 's forms and viz. : \mdash ; . . . . .
( I ) see Malet , p. 768 .
12 .
These forms are not , as in the case of the first class of criticoids , independent of the ol.der of the quantoids .
This appears from some general results obtained by Sir James Cockle by the owlng process .
Let and } ) co1mected by the relation where is a function of , which gives , by symbolical development , where differentiations with respect to are denoted , as before , by grave accents .
This formula enables us to change the independent variable in any given quantoid in from to .
Thus the general ' linear differential equation may be transformed into * Cockle .
" " On Linear Differential Equafions of the Third Order " " Quarterly Journal of Matbematics vol. vu , pp. 316-326 , more particularly equations ( l ) and ( o ) on p. 318 .
This paper bears date 15th August , 1864 .
See also in the \mdash ; le Journal , vol. viii , pp. 373-383 , and vol. , pp. 340-353 .
" " On a Diiferential Criticoid " " Philosophical Magazine \ldquo ; for December , vol. 50 , ser. , pp. 440-446 .
52 Rev. Robert Harley .
Prof. Malet 's Invariants [ Dec. 18 , where .
and since .
Hence , and being indeterminates , .
; hich , making , becomes .
; and therefore , if we assume , we have inalIy , observing that , we may write , a formula which holds for all values of except 1 and 2 .
If we make 1884 .
] identifed with J. Cockle 's Criticoids .
53 , the formula gives Professor Malet 's function already noticed .
See Article 11 , .
Making , we have Compare hIalet on p. 775 , where is in the form Other criticoids of the second class may be derived from the generRl quantoid by the foregoing process .
I give two examples .
13 .
First .
Since , we have , and therefore which , on making , becomes or , as it may be written , a formula which holds for all values of .
When , the formula gives Professor Malet 's function ( J ) See Malet , pp. 763 , 764 .
When , it gives the function form of which is exhibited in of Article 11 ; and when , it gives Professor Malet 's function .
:\mdash ; See Malet , 14 .
Qecondly .
Carrying the development of sufficiently to determine the coefficient of we find Rev. Robert Harley .
Prof. Malet 's Invariants [ Dec. 18 , Now applying this formula in the same way that the less developed form Article 12 was applied , we obtain the following reIations:\mdash ; Hence 1884 .
] identified with J. Cockle 's Criticoids .
55 Employing the indeterminate multipliers , \amp ; c. , we have where , .
The conditions of the simultaneous evanescence of , and are which give , and ; Rev. Robert Harley .
Prof. 's Invariants [ Dec. 18 , and therefore , making , we have or , since , we may write From this form , which holds for all values of greater than 3 , we can readily deduce Professor Malet 's function ; for , making we get Professor Malet ( see p. 775 ) writes in the form \mdash ; which differs from the dexter of by a numerical factor only .
15 .
From the foregoing it appears that the first class of functions , I are given explicitly in the memoirs to which I referred Professor Malet ; and that the second class , maY be derived from general forms contained in those memoirs by simply assigning particular numerical values to .
Further , it is shown in the last two articles that by an obvious extension of Sir James Cockle 's method we may obtain forms which include the functions as particular cases .
Professor Malet 's Classes of Invariants are thus completely identified with Sir James Cockle 's Criticoids .
16 .
Professor Malet calls these functions invariants , but they would seem to partake more of the nature of seminvariants or critical ctions .
If we agree to call an expression critical when remains 1884 .
] identifed Sir J. Cockle 's Criticoids .
57 after a change of one variable , and ultra-critical when it so remains after a change of more than one , then seminvariants and invariants are respectively critical and ultra-critical algebraical tions .
Criticoids may be called ordinary , or of the first class , when the dependent variable is changed , and extraordinary , or of the second class , when the independent variable is changed .
A criticoid , whether of the first or second class , is in the nature of a seminvariant , not of an invariant ; it does not correspond with an invariant .
It is critical , not uItra-critical .
In differential expressions we have critical functions or criticoids .
But we have not in general uItra-critical functions , or , as it is proposed to call them , Invaroids .
To obtain such functions it is necessary to change two variables , the dependent and the independent .
In a recent letter to me Sir James Cockle gests that in a limited number of cases it may be possible by means of semicritical relations*to form invaroids , that is , nltra-criticaI functions of the calculus analogous to the invariants or ultra-critical functions of algebra .
Such functions may have a place in the general theory , but it is not necessary to pursue the subject here .
17 .
In tracing out the analogies between algebraical and differential equations , Sir James Cockle has been led consider another class of criticoidal functions , namely , those connected with partial differential equations .
How the criticoidal functions of the first and second class may be combined , what are the uses of criticoids , and what is the part they play in the theory of the soIution of differentisl equations , are points illustrated by numerous ] in the memoirs from which I have drawn most of the materials of this communication .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 8th , * Let be a function of the 's and their differential coefficients with respect to , and let be the same function of the 's and their diiferential coefficients with respect to also let denote a function of X respect to .
Then if .
( A ) , he calls ( A ) a semicritical ation .
Thus is a semicritical ] ation which , notation apart , includes 11 ) of Art .
53 of the cluding paper " " On Linear Differential Equations of the Third Order cited in footnote * , p. 61 .
In like manner ( 17 ) of Art .
55 of that paper is a semicritical .elation .
Cockle .
" " On Fractional iticoids , \ldquo ; " " Philosophical Magazine \ldquo ; for May , 1871 , vol. xli , ser. 4 , pp. In the concluding paper " " On Linear Differential Equations of the Third

