The reading of a paper was commenced , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
Ninth Series .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. February 5 , 1835 .
The Rev. PHILIP JENNINGS , D.D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
Albert Wiliiam Beetham , Esq. 3 John Edye , Esq. ; John Hamett , M.D. ; John Greathed Harris , Esq. 3 the Rev. Henry Tattam , M.A. ; and Martin Tupper , Esq.3 were elected Fellows of the Society .
Mr. Faraday 's paper , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Elec ?
tricity .
Ninth Series , " was resumed and concluded .
In the series of experiments which are detailed in this paper , the author inquires into the causes of some remarkable phenomenon rela ?
ting to the action of an electric current upon itself , under certain circumstances , whereby its intensity is highly exalted , and occasionally increased to ten , twenty , or even fifty times that which it originally possessed .
For the production of this effect , the principal condition is that the current traverse a considerable length of a good conductor , such as a long wire 3 more especially if this wire be coiled in the form of a helix 3 and the effect is still farther augmented when this helix is coiled round a cylinder of soft iron , constituting an electro-magnet .
The evidence on which these conclusions are founded is the following .
If an electromotor , consisting of a single pair of zinc and copper plates , have these metals connected by a short wire dipping into cups of mercury , the electric spark consequent upon either forming or breaking the circuit is so slight as to be scarcely perceptible ; but if a long wire be employed as the medium of connexion , a bright spark is obtained on breaking the contact .
If the wire be coiled in a helix , the spark is still brighter ; and if a core of soft iron be placed within the helix , the spark , at the moment of disjunction , is more brilliant than in any of the former cases : and the higher intensity of the current is also manifested by the occurrence of a shock , at the same mo ?
meant , to a person who grasps with wetted hands the two ends of the wire ; whereas no such effect , nor even any sensible impression on the tongue , is produced by the electromotor , when a short wire is employed .
All these effects of exaltation are produced at a time when the ac ?
tual current of electricity from the electromotor is greatly diminished ; as the author shows by many experiments on the ignition of a fine wire , and the deflection of a galvanometer .
He also proves that the effects of the spark and the shock , at the moment of disjunction of a long wire , are due to a current far more powerful than that which passes through the short wire at the same instant ; or indeed than that which passes through either the long or the short wire at any other instant of time than when the disjunction takes place .
That this extraordinary effect is not due to any species of inertia , is shown by the fact , that the same wire will produce it in a greater or less degree , under circumstances incapabie of influencing any effect depending on inertia : thus , if 100 feet of wire , when extended , produce a certain effect , a greater effect will be produced by coiling the same wire into a helix , and a still more powerful one by employing it as the helix of an electro-magnet .
The author ultimately refers these pheenomena to an inductive action of the current , analogous , or perhaps identical , with that described in the First Series of these Experimental Researches : for he found that when a second wire was placed parallel to the long conducting wire , the ends of this second wire being connected together so that a current of electricity could circulate round it , then the spark and shock did not take place at the first wire at the moment of disjunction , but a current was induced at the second wire , according to the law ori ?
ginally described in the First Series .
The moment the current in the second wire was interrupted , the spark and shock appeared at the first .
These and many other experiments were adduced to prove that these effects , namely , the shock and the spark , result from an in ?
ductive action of the original current , producing , at the moment it is stopped , a current , in the same direction as itself , in the same wire which serves to convey the original current .
The author , lastly , considers the reverse effect produced upon make ?
ing contact ; and concludes his paper by some general views of the consequences resulting from this inductive action in various cases of electric discharge ; pointing out the important influence it must have in magneto-electrical machines of the ordinary construction .

