330 Mr. G. Massee .
Note on the Disease oj Laovagcs [ Feb. 14 the Royal College of Science , for the benefit of his large experience f in the cutting and grinding of minerals .
The first model of the instrument is exhibited in the Science Division of the South Ken- J sington Museum .
\#166 ; y Not\#169 ; on the Disease of Cabbages and allied Plants known as 'Finger and Toe/ \amp ; c. " By George Massee , a Principal Assistant , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , Esq. , F.R.S. , Director .
Received January 25 , 1895 .
The disease known in different parts of Britain as " finger and toe , " " clubbing , " or " anbury , " attacks turnips , rape , cabbages of all varieties , radishes , and , in fact , most cultivated plants belonging to the order Cruciferce .
Several common weeds are also attacked , namely , charlock ( BrassicaSinapistrum , Boiss .
) , garlic-mustard ( Sisymbrium Alliaria , Scop .
) , treacle-mustard ( Erysimum thoides , Linn. ) , and shepherd 's purse ( Oapsella bursa-pastor is , D.C. ) .
The last-named is reported from the United States by Ualsted , * and has not been observed to be diseased in Britain , although one of our commonest weeds .
The disease is characterised by the fortnatiGHnip^ jj numerous nodules on the root , which becomes much distorted and soon decays , forming a slimy , foetid mass .
Berkeleyf appears to have been the first to investigate the disease from a scientific standpoint , and although he did not succeed in deter-mining the true cause , distinctly states that microscopic examination revealed the presence of a factor previously unknown in connection with plant diseases .
Furthermore , Berkeley pointed out that wood ashes were a cure for the disease , and supposed this to be due to the presence of potash salts in the ash .
Owing to the serious amount of damage caused by " finger and toe " to the cabbage crop in Russia , the Government of that country offered a reward for the discovery of the cause of the disease .
WoroninJ undertook the investigation , and after years of patient study published an elaborate account , proving clearly that the disease was caused by a minute organism related to the fungi , to which he gave the name Plasmodiophora brassicce .
In 1859 , VoelckerS pointed out that the disease was influenced by the amount of lime present in the soil .
Where little or no h\#187 ; e existed , as in light and sandy soils , the disease abounded , whereas * New Jersey Agric .
Coll. Expt. Station ; Bull .
98 ( 1893 ) .
f ' Gard .
Chron. , ' p. 500 , 1856 .
$ ' Pringsheim 's Jahrb .
, ' vol. 11 , p. 548 , tabs , ixix\#151 ; xxxiv ( 1878 ) .
S ' Roy .
Agric .
Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 20 , p. 101 ( 1859 ) .
1895 .
] and allied Plants known as " and fyc .
331 soil containing lime the disease was absent .
This opinion is corroborated by the same author at a later date.* The following is an account of experiments conducted during four successive years at Kew .
1 .
Healthy seedling cabbages planted in soil that had two years previously produced a crop of diseased cabbages , became diseased .
Check plants from the same batch of seed , grown in sterilised soil , remained free from disease .
Somervillef has also demonstrated that turnips become diseased when the seed is sown in soil brought from an infected area .
A. Experiments conducted in a Sterilised Solution of Stable Manure .
2 .
The contents of two flasks were infected by adding crushed tubercles of a diseased cabbage root .
2 per cent , of a saturated solution of potassium hydrate was added to the contents of one flask , and 2 per cent , of commercial sulphuric acid to the other .
A young cabbage plant free from disease was then placed in each flask .
At the end of two months the plant in the flask containing potassium hydrate was growing vigorously and perfectly free from disease , whereas the plant growing in the solution containing sulphuric acid was badly diseased , much more so than check plants growing in infected soil free from acid , for the same period of time .
Similar experiments made during successive years always yielded the same result .
3 .
Two young cabbage plants showing decided symptoms of disease were placed in flasks containing the same proportions of potassium hydrate and sulphuric acid respectively as in Experiment 1 .
At the end of two months the plant growing in the solution containing potassium hydrate appeared to be perfectly healthy , the indications of nodules present on the root at the commencement of the experiment having become effaced by subsequent growth .
The plant growing in the solution containing sulphuric acid was badly diseased .
Similar results were obtained in Experiments 1 and 2 , when potassium hydrate was replaced by ammonium hydrate , and sulphuric acid by hydrochloric acid .
4 .
Two diseased seedling cabbages were placed in separate flasks of the sterilised solution .
The liquid in one flask was saturated once a week with carbonic dioxide , the contents of the second flask not " cing interfered with in any way .
At the end of two months both plants had the disease developed to the same extent , proving that carbonic acid is neutral as regards the development of Plasmodio-phorce .
VOL. lvii .
* Op. cit. , Ser. Ill , vol. 5 , p. 321 ( 1894 ) .
t Op. cit. , Ser. Ill , vol. 5 , p. 808 ( 1894 ) .
B. Experiments conducted with Sterilised Soil .
5 .
Two pots of soil , sterilised by steam , were infected with the crushed roots of diseased cabbages .
The soil in one pot was mixed with quicklime , that in the other with bone manure , having an acid reaction ; A healthy cabbage seedling was planted in each pot , and at the end of two months the plant in the pot containing lime was perfectly healthy , whereas the plant in the soil containing acid bone manure was badly diseased .
6 .
Two pots containing soil mixed with quicklime and acid bone manure respectively had a diseased cabbage seedling placed in each .
At the end of two months the disease was more developed in both seedlings than at the time of planting ; proving that the presence of lime will not arrest the disease when the plants are once attacked .
Summary .
The foregoing observations and experiments demonstrate the following points :\#151 ; 1 .
That in addition to cultivated plants , several common weeds belonging to the order Oruciferoe are attacked by the Plasmodiophora .
Hence the necessity for preventing the growth of such weeds in fields and hedge-banks .
2 .
That the germs of disease are present in soil that has produced a diseased crop , and retain their vitality for at least two years .
3 .
That the development of Plasmodiophora is favoured by the presence of acids , and checked by the presence of alkalies , agreeing in this respect with the fungi rather than with bacteria .
4 .
For the purpose of sterilising infected soil , experiments prove that either a dressing of lime or a manure containing potash salts is effective , the last being most valuable , as it not only destroys the germs in the soil but also arrests the disease in seedling plants , and at .
the same time supplies one of the ingredients necessary for the healthy growth of turnips .
Presents , February 14 , 1895 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Vol. XIV .
No. 116 .
4to .
Baltimore 1895 .
The UniversityBerlin :\#151 ; Gresellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Verhandlungen .
Band XXI .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Berlin 1895 .
The SocietyBoston :\#151 ; Society of Natural History .
Memoirs .
Vol. Ill* 14 .
4to .
Boston 1894 ; Proceedings .
Vol. XXVI .
Pads 2 , 3 .
8vo .
Boston 1894 ; Occasional Papers .
No. 4 .
ovo .
Boston 1894 .
The Society-

