1874 .
] On the Mucous Membrane of the Uterus .
April 30 , 1874 .
Prof. ANDREW CROMBIE RAMSAY , LL. D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
It was announced from the Chair that the President and Council had appointed Mr. Lockyer 's Paper , " Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun , No. III .
, " read Nov. 27 last , to be the Bakerian Lecture ; and Dr. Perrier 's Paper , on " the Localization of Function in the Brain , " read March 5 last , to be the Croonian Lecture for the present year .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Structure of the Mucous Membrane of the Uterus and its Periodical Changes .
" By John Williams , M.D. ( Lond. ) , Assistant Obstetric Physician to University College Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Sharpey .
Received March 21 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The paper consists of observations made on the uteri of nine women who had died in different stages of the monthly period .
In two of the uteri the menstrual flow had almost ceased , and the mucous membrane was wanting in the bodies of the organs .
The muscular fibre-cells were more or less exposed in the cavity , and the meshes formed by their bundles contained glands and groups of round cells .
In one uterus menstruation had ceased three days before death , and the muscular fibres were not exposed m the cavity of the organ , but imposed upon them was a layer of tissue composed of fusiform and round cells .
This tissue contained glands .
The muscular tissue near the internal orifice was devoid of glands , but nearer the fundus it contained numerous glands .
In one uterus , in which the catamenial flow had ceased probably about a fortnight before death , the layer of superficial tissue was thicker than in the last ; and near the internal orifice there was a marked and abrupt distinction between it and the subjacent muscular tissue .
In one uterus the flow had ceased three wreeks before death , and the superficial layer was still thicker ; and the distinction between it and the subjacent muscular layer was well marked , except at the fundus .
The uterine glands were tubular , and arranged in some parts obliquely , in others perpendicularly to the surface .
They were lined by columnar ciliated epithelium .
298 Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Apr. 30 , In two uteri menstruation was imminent , but the flow had not begun .
In these the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus was fully developed , and had begun to undergo fatty degeneration .
There was a marked distinction between it and the muscular tissue throughout the uterine cavity : it was highly congested . .
In one uterus the menstrual flow had taken place for one day , and in another for two or three days before death .
In these there was extravasation of blood into the mucous membrane , and the latter had in part been disintegrated and removed .
Menstruation appears essentially to consist , not in a congestion or a species of erection , but in growth and rapid decay of the mucous membrane .
The menstrual discharge consists chiefly of blood and of the debris of the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus .
The source of the haemorrhage is the vessels of the body of the uterus .
The mucous membrane having undergone fatty degeneration , blood becomes extrava-sated into its substance ; then the membrane undergoes rapid disintegration , and is entirely carried away with the menstrual discharge .
A new mucous membrane is then developed by proliferation of the inner layer of the uterine wall , the muscular tissue producing fusiform cells , and the groups of round cells enclosed in the meshes of the muscular bundles producing the columnar epithelium of the glands .
II .
" On Leaf-Arrangement .
" By Hubert Airy , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Charles Darwin , F.R.S. Received March 23 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is offered in correction and extension of the views contained in a previous paper by the same author , read 27th February 1873 , ' " ; \#166 ; V. .
The main facts of leaf-arrangement to be accounted for are:\#151 ; ( 1 ) the division into vertitillate and alternate leaf-order ; ( 2 ) in the former , the equal division of the circumference of the stem by the leaves of each whorl , and the alternation , in angular position , of successive whorls ; ( 3 ) in the latter , the arrangement of leaves in a spiral series round the stem , with uniform angular divergence between successive leaves , and the limitation of that angular divergence ( represented as a fraction of the circumference ) to certain fractional values ( in most cases only approximate ) which find place most commonly in the following convergent series ( A):\#151 ; 1 1 # 3 ' 2 3 5 8 13 21 34 55 5 ' 8 ' 13 ' 21 ' 34 ' 55 ' 89 ' 144 ' \lt ; fcc .
; ( A )

