206 Drs. A. S. F. Griinbaum and C. S. Sherrington .
" Observations on the Physiology of the Cerebral Cortex of some of the Higher Apes .
" ( Preliminary Communication .
) By A. S. F. GrRnbaum , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
, M.R.C.P. , and C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of PhysioloJ Liverpool .
Received July 20 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1901.1 ( From the Thompson Yates Laboratory , XJniT\#169 ; rsity College , Liverpool .
) .
[ Plate 4 .
] We have been engaged for some time past on inquiry into thf physiology of the cerebral cortex of the anthropoid apes .
We are able to lay before the Society some new facts regarding the topographical distribution of function in the anthropoid brain .
Our expeif-ments have been carried out on individuals representing the fouS species Pithecus satyrus ( Orang ) , Troglodytes gorilla ( Gorilla ) , Troglodyte , niger ( Chimpanzee ) , and Troglodytes calms ( Chimpanzee ) .
The speof mens so far have included ten adult individuals .
Of Troglodytes nigk one individual used was only a few months old .
I. Method employed .
The method of excitation employed for the cortex has been unipolar faradisation , in the manner previously adoped by one of us* in examining the cortex cerebri for ocular reactions .
This method allows of finer localisation than that possible with the double-point electrodes ordinarily used .
The inductorium ( Kronecker 's pattern and scale ) has been Helmholtzed .
II .
" Motor " ( so-called ) Area .
This area we find to include continuously the whole length of the precentral convolution .
It also enters into the whole length of the sulcus centralis , with the usual exception of its extreme lower tip and its extreme upper tip .
In all the animals examined , we have found the " motor " area not to at any point extend behind sulcus centralis .
Feeble reactions can occasionally , under certain circumstances , be , provoked by strong faradisation behind the sulcus centralis , but these are equivocal , and appear under conditions that exclude their acceptance as equivalent to " motor-area " reactions .
On the mesial surface of the hemisphere the " motor " area has extended less far down than was expected .
It has not extended to the calloso-marginal fissure .
Certain areas near that fissure have | yielded us movements , e.g. , of shoulder , body , wrist , and fingers but 1 * Sherrington , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 , 1893 .
Oil the Cerebral Cortex of some of Higher Apes .
207 we hesitate , for reasons to be given in a fuller communication , to class these with those of the " motor " area proper .
We have found the precentral convolution excitable over its free width , and continuously round into and to the bottom of the sulcus centralis , The " motor " area extends also into the depth of other fissures besides the Rolandic , as can be described in a fuller communication than the present .
The hidden part of the excitable area probably equals , perhaps exceeds , in extent that contributing to the free surface of the hemisphere .
We have in some individuals found the deeper part of the posterior wall of the sulcus centralis to contribute to the " motor " area .
In the " motor " area we have found localised , besides very numerous other actions , certain movements of the ear , nostril , palate , movements of sucking , of mastication , of the vocal cords , of the chest wall , of the abdominal wall , of the pelvic floor , of the anal orifice , and of the vaginal orifice .
We have met with various examples of inhibition effects produced by this cortex , such as described by one of us previously in the cortex of the lower apes.* We find the arrangement of the representation of various regions of the musculature follow the segmental sequence of the craniospinal nerve-series to a very remarkable extent .
The accompanying figure ( Plate 4 ) indicates better than can a verbal description the degree of adherence to this sequence .
We do not find that the exciting current for the " motor ''cortex requires to be extremely strong for the anthropoid brain .
" Epilepsy " Is easily evoked from the cortex of the anthropoids .
Our experiments show that the in the region of cortex dealt with can in no sense be considered to signify physiological boundaries .
Further , the variation of the sulci in these higher brains is so great from individual to individual that , as our observations show , they prove but precarious , even fallacious , landmarks to the details of the true topography of the cortex .
[ The mere fact that the " motor " area extends in front of but never ( so far as our experiments have yet gone ) behind the sulcus , is but little indication of detailed constancy of relation between the physiological area and even that sulcus , though such a fundamental one .
the antero-postorior diameter of the sulcus , being an area often five-and-twenty mm. across , it is , when treated as marking a line on the cerebral surface , but a rough guide for any detailed examination of the functional topography.\#151 ; November 25 , 1901 .
] Extirpation of the hand area by itself has been followed by sc\ ere paresis of the hand , the hand being for a few days practically useless and seemingly " powerless .
" In a few weeks use and " power " were \#187 ; Sherrington , ibid. ; also Sherrington and Bering , ibid. , vol. 62 , 1897 , and Hearing and Sherrington , ' Pfliiger 's Archiy , ' vol. 71 , 189* .
208 On the Cerebral Cortex of some of the Higher Apes .
remarkably regained in the hand , so that it was once more used for climbing , \amp ; c. The animal ultimately not unfrequently fed itself with fruit , making use of that hand alone .
Even small ablations in the precentral gyrus have led to severe though quickly diminishing pareses .
On the other hand , ablations of even large portions of post-central gyrus have not given any even transient paresis .
, III .
Other Regions of Cortex .
Our observations indicate that the frontal region , yielding conjugate deviation of the eyeballs , presents such marked differences of reaction from the " motor " area of the Kolandic region that we hesitate to include it with the so-called " motor " cortex .
it seems necessary to distinguish it in a physiological category separate from that .
Spatially it is wholly separated from the Rolandic " motor " area by a field of " inexcitable " cortex .
As to the occipital lobe , only from the extreme posterior apex of the lobe and from its actual calcarine region has faradisation yielded anfl movement ( eyes ) , and then not easily .
We hope at no long distance of time to be able to lay before the Society a detailed account of the completed investigation .
Some of ourt experiments are still in progress .
It is a pleasure to record here our indebtedness to Dr. L. Mond , | F.R.S. , for enabling us to bring these experiments to their present stage .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 4 .
Brain of a Chimpanzee ( Troglodytesnig Left hemisphere viewed from side \#166 ; !
; and above so as to obtain as far as possible the configuration of the sulcus centralis area .
The figure involves , nevertheless , considerable foreshortening about the top I and bottom of sulcus centralis .
The extent of the " motor " area on the free 1 surface of the hemisphere is indicated by the black stippling , which extends back 1 to the sulcus centralis .
Much of the " motor " area is hidden in sulci ; for a instance , the area extends into the sulc .
centralis and the sulc .
precentrales , also I into occasional sulci which cross the precentral gyrus .
The names printed large , in* red , on the stippled area indicate the main regions of the " motor " area ; the* names printed small , in red , outside the brain , indicate broadly by their pointing m lines the relative topography of some of the chief sub-divisions of the main regions m of the " motor " cortex .
But there exists much overlapping of the areas and of I their sub-divisions which the diagram does not attempt to indicate .
The shaded regions , marked " Eyes , " indicate in the frontal and occipital regions 9 respectively the portions of cortex which , under faradisation , yield conjugate move- * ments of the eyeballs .
But it is questionable whether these reactions sufficiently resemble those of the " motor " area to be included with them .
They are therefore a marked in vertical shading instead of stippling as is the " motor " area .
S.F. =* 1 superior frontal sulcus .
S.Pr .
= superior precentral sulcus .
I.Pr .
= inferior pre- I central sulcus .
.mbaumand Sherrington .
Roy .
Sac .
Vol. 69 , Plate 4 .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
Addendum on the Pyramidal Tracts .
By C. S. Sherrington .
The spinal degeneration resulting from ablation in the precentral gyrus of the above-mentioned " hand ''-area , discovers in the anthropoid cord the human feature of a perfectly large direct ventral ( Tiircksbiindel ) as well as crossed pyramidal tract .
The relative sizes of these tracts seem about the same as in man .
The homolateral or uncrossed lateral division of the pyramidal tract is also well seen .
The crossed pyramidal degeneration from the hand area lesion is clearly traceable down to the lumbar region of the cord .
In the lowest brachial segments there is obvious degeneration of fibres in the grey matter of the ventral horn of the crossed side .
Some of the large nerve-cells there seem also degenerate .
A lesion at the top of the gyrus precentralis gave no ventral pyramidal tract degeneration , and only a very slight uncrossed lateral pyramidal , although an extensive crossed lateral , that descends the whole length of the cord .
" Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
Preliminary Report of the Observations made at Ayer Karoe , Sawah Loento , p Sumatra .
" By H. F. Newall , M.A. Received October 30 , \#151 ; i Read at Joint Meeting of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies , October 31 , 1901 .
This expedition was one of those organised by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee of the Royal Society and Royal Astronomical Society , funds being provided from a grant made by the Government Grant Committee .
It was originally contemplated that the party should consist of Professor H. H. Turner and myself , and that we should occupy a station inland in Sumatra ; but when the former found himself unable join in the expedition , it was decided not to appoint another observer in his stead , nor to fix upon the station to be occupied until there was an opportunity of learning about local conditions , on the spot .
11 The expedition was to go to Padang , on the West Coast of Sumatra , and to this port I travelled in company with Mr. F. W. Dyson , who went out from the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
It was decided that we should travel out together , prepared either to join forces at one and the same camp , or to form two camps separated by a considerable ^stance , and our ultimate decision was to depend upon information which we expected to get from the Dutch authorities .
K I had communicated with Major Muller , the Chief of the Survey 1 vol. lxix .
Q

