258 Action of Oils on Motions of Camphor on Water .
[ June 19 $ Y. " On the Action of Oils on the Motions of Camphor on the Surface of Water .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1890 .
In Lord Rayleigh 's paper on the above subject , read before the Royal Society on the 27th March last , and reported in ' Nature ' of the 8th May , it is stated that a film of olive oil , in two or three cases , " was incompetent to stop the camphor motions upon a surface including only a few square inches .
" I have often noticed this fact as a consequence of the use of chemically-clean materials .
Water , contained in a shallow glass vessel , 4 inches in diameter , on the surface of which camphor frag-ments were active , was touched with rape oil delivered from the point of a penknife .
The fragments continued to rotate on that part of the surface which had not been invaded by the oil film ( ' Phil. Mag. , ' November , 1873 ) .
I had previously noticed that a drop of a volatile oil , free from oxidised products , could be spread over the whole surface of the water , without impeding the motion of the camphor fragments , which skated through and cut up the film .
In the case of old volatile oils , redistiilation was found to be necessary ( ' Phil. Mag. , ' September , 1863 ) .
A similar effect was produced by a drop of creosote ( or its constituent acids ) on a film of a fixed oil that completely covered the surface of the water .
The creosote repels the oil film , cuts it up in all directions , moving over the surface with great vigour ( ' Phil. Mag. , ' June , 1867 ) .
So also by attention to chemical purity , a raft of mica carrying a bit of camphor will float about briskly on the surface of water night and day during a whole week and upwards ( 'Phil .
Mag. , ' December , 1869 ) .
By attending to the chemical purity of the materials the results led to the explanation of many phenomena which had taken refuge under the vague term " molecular change , " or " molecular condition , " and to the discovery of other phenomena which had some influence in developing theory .
I proposed to apply the term cathdrised to bodies thus made chemically clean , from , " pure " or " clean ( 'Journal of the Chemical Society , 'April , 1869 ; also ' Phil. Trans. ' for 1870 ) .
I may be allowed to add that , in arriving at the true theory of the camphor motions and their varied kindred phenomena , Professor Van der Mensbrugghe was kind enough to refer to me in his second memoir , as " le physicien qui a le mieux prepare la vraie theory de ces phenomenes .
"

