]\gt ; Mr. J. .
Graham .
On the Measurement [ June 25 , Force Observations , 1902 ( C.M.G. ) .
[ These reports will in bc published , long with the other British nlagnetic observations , in the Reports of the National Phybical ) oratory .
The Falmonth magnetic ) servations are published in the Annual Reports of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society , will also be )rinted in the Reports of the Physical tory.\mdash ; SEC .
] " " On the sulemeut of the Diffnsion of alts i Solution By J. C. AHAlt .
icated by W. .
Received May 14 , \mdash ; 1iearl JnJle 1eceived in June In order to get the solution of the below the pure water which is above it , without any intermixing .
common surface , the tpparatus was used which is fig. 1 .
A is cylindrical glass vessel containing a of the salt to be investigated , in the lower half , and containin pure water in the npper half .
The internal rliameter of the vessel was about mm. , the depth of the cylindrical part abont 300 mm. is th ) which passes np through the bottom of the vessel , and is continued outside in the manner shown .
is a tube which opens into the lowest part of the vessel and is with a fimnel is small tube which passes up the centre of the vessel to the point The vessel is first completely filled with pure water the mnel C , until it has risen to the point marked ; the cocks and being closed , and the cocks and X ) opcn .
1903 .
] of the Diffision of Salts in Solution .
The vessel is then ] ready for the introduction of the salt solution , which is allowed to drop into the funnel from which it passes the pipe into the vessel , where it , radually floats the watel npwards and continually forces it out ough the pipe B. noticed thab the water which is thus forced out is that which lay below the marked ' level\ldquo ; ; after say an hour the tirst portions of the salt solution reach the point marked ' ' level\ldquo ; and arc theu forced out , and ultimately the salt solution of the normal densit , the density , occupies the lower half of the vessel , and pure occupies the upper half , and there is mixing at the ommol 1903 .
] of th of Salts in Solntion .
, the ) stratum passes down through the tube and is reserved for weighing .
In the same manner all the remaining strata drawu off .
The ccifi gravity of each stratum is ascertained .
These specilic vitics when plotted give a urve from which caIl calculated .
Fig. 2 how this WttS done with a solution of chloride of of density .
The contents of the 25 .
sp.g .
bottle veighed grammes .
I assumed ( which is not quite correct ) that the eight of salt gramme , and plotted this as 300 mm. In the same the weights of stdt i1125 c.c. of all the other strata plotted .
The circles show the curve so obtained .
And be cadculated by me of Fourier 's equation usion went on for hours the of for honrs was , therefore ( for one hour ) gives urve which is symmetrical with respect to AB .
The crosses obtained by marking the small cles cing P ttlrning the tracing paper throngh ToLlld the point O. The no eement of the two curves is a good test of the of the obscl.vations .
The fluids and the room where the ) eriment was were about , but it was not possible to keep the temperature the .
The vessel A very completely snclosed in fl nnel .
The .
of ting from any erved curve is obviated by of the cnrves on fig. 3 .
Here the values of the , and 5 cm .
calculated from the uove tion , for essive v}lues of to 10 , and plotted to the scnlc of 300 mm. mity .
For mple , the figure ( the average of 98 see fig. } .
is seen by the ctlrve to ve the .
Inasmuch as these calculations of cry ) rioub , I given the vtdues in the following table .
Each mnt be multiplied if 300 .
is taken as unity .
With such curvos the of is obtained by inspection .
Mr. J. C. .
On the .
1903 .
] of the Dfusion of Salts in cm .
3 .
3.3 .
4 .
6 .
7 . .
9 .
lo . .
3019 3463 3692 3773 3842 3892 252 cm .
0623 0923 2009 0395 0569 1318

