February 24 , 1853 .
COLONEL SABINE , R.A. , Treas .
&amp; V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " On Periodical Laws in the larger Magnetic Disturbances .
" By Captain Younghusband , R.A. , F.R.S. Received February 16 , 1853 .
In this communication the author has arranged , in tables , the disturbances of the magnetic declination at St. Helena and the Cape of Good Hope , for the purpose of exhibiting the systematic laws by which those phenomena are regulated , which were long described as irregular variations , because they were of occasional and apparently uncertain occurrence .
The frequency of the disturbances , and their amount , whether viewed separately as easterly or westerly movements , or as general abnormal variations ( easterly and westerly being taken together ) , is shown to be dependent upon the hour of the day , the period of the year , and upon the year of observation .
This dependence upon the year of observation affords additional testimony of a periodical variation in the magnitude of magnetic changes of the same character as that which has been found to exist at other places , and which has been considered to be coincident with variations of the solar spots .
The disturbances of larger amount only are noticed ; those observations which differed by 2'5 scale divisions ( 1"8 in arc at St. Helena , and l'`9 in arc at the Cape ) and upwards , from the normal place , were separated from the others and the values of the differences taken ; there were therefore two series of figures to be dealt with , viz. the number of disturbances , and the aggregate amount of disturbance .
These were separated into disturbances of the north end of the magnet towards the east and towards the west , and the effect of each considered separately .
The periodical character of disturbances at St. Helena and the Cape in a cycle of years is indicated insofar as the limited extent of the observations would permit ; sufficient however to point to the year 1843 as that of least disturbance at these two places , by showing a regular decrease from the previous years , and an increase in every succeeding year of observation .
Though the hourly observations were discontinued before 1848 , the year which Colonel Sabine has shown to be that of periodical maximum , as 1843 was that of minimum magnetic activity at Toronto and Hobarton , the observations now discussed are shown to be quite consistent with this period , and thus tend to establish it as a general law of magnetic phenomena .
In the aggregate of each year the disturbances towards the west are shown to preponderate over those towards the east , both at St. Helena and the Cape of Good Hope ; a similar preponderance of westerly over easterly has been found in every year of observation at Hobarton , but at Toronto the easterly disturbances exceeded the westerly both in number and amount in every year .
Arranging the disturbances into the several months of their occurrence , the greatest disturbance is found to occur in January and the least in June at St. Helena and the Cape of Good Hope ; the same months being those of greatest and least disturbance at Hobarton , whereas at Toronto , both January and June are months of minimum disturbance , the maxima disturbance occurring there in April and September .
From this identity of the epoch of greatest and least disturbance , --at St. Helena , where the months of January and June are not those of opposite seasons , viewed either with respect to the sun 's extreme altitude or to extreme periods of temperature , --at the Cape , 'situated in S. latitude 33 ? ?
56 ' , --and at Hobarton in S. latitude 42 ? ?
52f , and contrasting this identity with a different law at Toronto in N. latitude 43 ? ?
391 , the author infers that the principal causes which produce an annual period of disturbance are not dependent upon local seasons .
It is likewise pointed out that about the period of the equinoxes there is a tendency to maximum disturbances at all the stations , producing absolute maxima at Toronto , faintly but systematically indicated at the other stations .
The westerly disturbances were found to exceed the easterly , in every month in the year at St. Helena and the Cape , which agrees with the results deduced from the lobarton observations , while it appears from the observations at Toronto that the easterly disturbances exceeded the westerly in every month .
The average value of a westerly disturbance is greater than that of an easterly in every month at St. Helena and the Cape of Good Hope .
The disturbances at Hobarton again coincide with this result ; and in a slight and less perfectly marked degree , Toronto has the sate peculiarity .
Arranging the disturbances into the several hours of their occurrence , the hours of the day are found to be those of greatest disturbance in a very considerable degree ; the sum of the ratios , during the twelve hours of the day , being about seven times as great as the sum of those in the twelve hours of the night at St. Helena , and about 2'6 times as great at the Cape of Good Hope ; while at Hobarton the sum of the twelve night ratios slightly exceeded the day ; at Toronto the excess was larger , viz. as 1'3 to 1 .
The laws of easterly and westerly disturbances , in relation to the local hours , are then examined separately .
At St. Helena and the Cape , the easterly day-disturbances exceed the easterly night-disturbances , and the westerly day-disturbances exceed the westerly night-disturbances .
These results are compared with those at Toronto and Hobarton .
At St. Helena , although but c , omparatively few disturbances occur during the night hours , those disturbances are almost all westerly ( 183 disturbances , in all , occurred in niile night hours during five years , of which 174 iwere westerly and but nine easterly ) .
In the day hours the westerly only slightly exceed the easterly disturbances .
At the Cape , the westerly excess is less in the night and greater in the day than at St. Helena , and the night excess much greater than the day excess .
At St. Helena , the fact of the dislturblances beintg more frequent in the day than in the night is consistenti in evter month of the year ; this appears worthy of remark when its is remlembered that at St. Helena the curve of the diurnal variation of the declination is precisely reversed at two opposite periods of theyear ; in one case corresponding to the curve of diurnal variiation in middle northern latitudes , and in the other to that in imiddle southern latitudes .
The inean effect of the disturbances which have been sepearated as described , and which comprise all of larges ; t magnitude , is a constant westerly effect at every hour both at St. Helena and the -Cape of Good -Iope , acting m3ore energeticall1 in the nighot than in thel day .
At Toronto the mean effect is westerly in the day and easterly in the night ; at Hobarton , easterly in the day and westerly in the night .

