24 Dr. G. Gore .
New Phenomena in Electrolysis .
[ May 1 , It is such a comparison that the authors have made , their method of analysis being one which enables them to detect the existence of unknown Inequalities having apparent periodicity in a mass of observations .
A description of this method has already been published in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " for May 15th , 1879 .
The comparison was made by this method between sun-spot observations extending from 1832 to 1867 inclusive , Toronto temperature-range observations extending from 1844 to 1879 inclusive , and Kew temperature-range observations extending from 1856 to 1879 inclusive .
The following conclusions were obtained from this comparison .
( 1 .
) Sun-spot Inequalities around 24 and 26 days , whether apparent or real , seem to have periods very nearly the same as those of terrestrial meteorological Inequalities as exhibited by the daily temperature-ranges at Toronto and at Kew .
( 2 .
) While the sun-spots and the Kew temperature-range Inequalities present evidence of a single oscillation , the corresponding Toronto temperature-range Inequalities present evidence of a double oscillation .
( 3 .
) Setting the celestial and terrestrial members of each individual Inequality , so as to start together from the same absolute time , it is found that the solar maximum occurs about 8 or 9 days after one of the Toronto maxima , and the Kew temperature-range maximum about 7 days after the same Toronto maximum .
( 4 .
) The proportional oscillation exhibited by the temperature-range Inequalities is much less than the proportional oscillation exhibited by the corresponding solar Inequalities .
IY .
" Some New Phenomena of Electrolysis .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. , LL. D. Received April 23 , 1884 .
Whilst making a series of experiments on the " self-deposition of metals , " I observed , by trying a number of different metals , that several of them received an electrolytic deposit of cadmium by contact with cadmium in various solutions of that metal much more frequently than others ; I therefore made various experiments to determine whether this was due to difference of density of current or to other causes .
By means of these additional trials , I found , on passing an undivided current through a series of portions of the same metallic solution , that cathodes composed of different metals of equal amounts of immersed surface , required currents of different degrees of density to cause deposits of the same metal upon them , and that the differences in some cases were considerable .
Another singular cir- 1884 .
] The Thomson Effect and Properties of Metals .
25 cumstance was also observed , viz. , that the cathode which most readily received a deposit was frequently the one composed of the same kind of metal as that which was being deposited .
I am now examining these new facts .
May 8,1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a Relation between the Coefficient of the Thomson Effect and certain other Physical Properties of Metals .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. Communicated by Prof. Frederick Guthrie , F.R.S. Received April 23 , 1884 .
The magnitude and direction of the Thomson effect depend upon a coefficient which is always the same for the same metal , but varies with different metals .
Professor Everett , in his " Units and Physical Constants , " p. 151 , gives a table based upon Tait 's thermoelectric diagram ( " Trans. R.S.E. , " vol. xxvii , p. 125 ) , in which the thermo-electric values of a number of metals , referred to lead as zero , are given in the form \#171 ; +'/ 3 t , where ft is a number which for a given metal is proportional to the tangent of the inclination of the line representing the metal in Tait 's diagram , and therefore to the coefficient of the Thomson effect .
Since all the physical properties of a metal are to some extent affected by h.eat , it seemed probable that a connexion might be found to exist between certain of these properties and the Thomson effect .
A short examination showed that , as a rule , the coefficient of the Thomson effect is positive in those metals which have a great specific electrical resistance and specific heat , and negative in those which are distinguished by a great coefficient of expansion .
I therefore made several attempts to ascertain whether the Thomson coefficient might not be some definite function of the specific resistance , specific heat , and coefficient of expansion ; and though I have not been perfectly successful , it appears from the subjoined table that there is a close relation between them .

