526 The Change of Carbon Disulphide into a Gaseous Product Condensable and Explosive near the Temperature of Liquid Air .
By Sir James Dewar , M.A. , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge ; and Humphrey Owen Jones , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Jacksonian Demonstrator in the University of Cambridge .
( Received and Read February 10 , 1910 .
) In a note communicated to the Society recently we described the preparation and properties of a polymeric form of carbon monosulphide .
It was to be expected that carbon monosulphide would be a gas boiling at about \#151 ; 130 ' C. ; yet the interaction of thiophosgene and nickel carbonyl at temperatures as low as \#151 ; 20 ' C. resulted in the formation of a polymeride , while when the same reaction was tried at \#151 ; 80 ' C. no change could be observed in the course of several hours .
The decomposition of carbon disulphide by light , studied by Sidot , also produces a polymeric form of carbon monosulpliicle , and we have shown that when this change is effected at \#151 ; 80 ' C. by means of ultra-violet light a similar substance is apparently formed .
It seemed possible that carbon disulphide vapour at low pressures might be decomposed under the influence of the silent electric discharge or of the ultra-violet radiation associated with it .
The conditions might then be favourable to the stability of the monomolecular carbon monosulphide , provided a rapid current of the hypothetical vapour could be passed through the discharge tube ; as the presumably unstable gaseous carbon monosulphide might remain unpolymerised , in the presence of sulphur and a large excess of carbon disulphide vapour , for a sufficient time to allow it to be condensed together with the unchanged carbon disulphide when cooled to the temperature of liquid air .
This anticipation was experimentally examined in the following way .
A bulb containing carbon disulphide was sealed on to an annular vessel through which the silent electric discharge could be passed , and the latter was sealed to a U-tube made of quill tubing and a bulb containing charcoal .
While tl^p bulb containing carbon disulphide was immersed in liquid air , the rest of the apparatus was thoroughly dried and cleaned by heating and exhausting by means of a good air pump ; it was then sealed off and the charcoal bulb cooled in liquid air .
The apparatus made solely of glass was now so thoroughly exhausted that no discharge would pass through the " ozoniser .
" The bulb The Change of Carbon Disulphide , etc. containing carbon disulphide was now transferred from liquid air to a paste of solid carbon dioxide and ether , and thus maintained at a temperature of \#151 ; 80 ' C. In this way a rapid stream of carbon disulphide vapour at a steady pressure of about 1 mm. passed through the " ozoniser " and the U-tube , and was condensed in the charcoal bulb .
On cooling the U-tube in liquid air , the carbon disulphide vapour was condensed and solidified as a white crystalline solid ring .
When , after five or ten minutes , the U-tube was removed from the liquid air and allowed to rise in temperature , the carbon disulphide melted and quickly evaporated into the charcoal bulb , leaving no residue .
The charcoal vacuum was maintained throughout the experiment , in order to ensure the absence of pressure due to any permanent gas .
While the U-tube was cooled in liquid air , the silent discharge was caused to pass through the vapour in the " ozoniser , " causing a bluish light to fill the vessel : the discharge could be stopped at once by cooling the carbon disulphide bulb in liquid air .
After the discharge had been allowed to pass for five minutes , a faint brown ring was noticed in the U-tube about a centimetre above the level of the surface of the liquid air .
The liquid air was then removed , and the temperature of the U-tube allowed to rise , when a flash of light , accompanied by a detonation , was observed , and the surface of the U-tube was found to be partly covered with a dark brown deposit .
The detonation was usually gentle , but was sometimes so violent that the tube was shattered .
A similar explosion may take place in the charcoal condenser .
When the conditions are arranged so that the temperature gradient in the U-tube is steep , as it is when the vacuum vessel surrounding it is filled to the top .
with liquid air , then the transformation may take place during the condensation , and no flash will occur when the temperature is allowed to rise .
If , on the other hand , the temperature gradient is not steep , as when the vacuum vessel is only half filled with liquid air , the flash can always be observed in a darkened room and frequently also in daylight .
On examination , the interior of the " ozoniser " is found to be partly covered with a thin brownish deposit which consists partly of sulphur and can be dissolved away by carbon disulphide .
When the potential of the discharge was increased until sparks passed through the air outside the " ozoniser , " then its inside surface became coated with a brown deposit similar in appearance to that which was formed in the U-tube .
In order to show that the brown deposit in the U-tube was due to the change of a gaseous substance , a plug of asbestos or of cotton wool , from 2 to 6 cm .
in length , was placed in a wider part of the tube between the " ozoniser " and the U-tube .
The flash of light , detonation , and formation of a brown deposit took place in the U-tube as before .
Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Feb. 10 , The phenomena as described above were also observed when an " ozoniser " with outside terminals of tinfoil was completely immersed in paraffin oil : this excludes the possibility of ozone being formed in the apparatus through air leakage due to any piercing of the glass by the electric discharge .
The apparatus was slightly modified so that the bulb containing carbon disulphide and also the U-tube could be detached and weighed , so as to obtain a rough estimate of the ratio between the weight of .
carbon disulphide passed through the " ozoniser " and the weight of the brown solid produced .
In a large number of experiments with different forms of " ozoniser , " each lasting from 10 to 30 minutes , it was found that the ratio of the weights varied from 9 to 1 to 16 to 1 .
In each experiment from 20 to 30 milligrammes of carbon disulphide were evaporated .
The properties of the brown deposit formed in the U-tube , in so far as we have been able to examine them with the small amount of material which can be obtained in this way , are almost identical with these of the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide which we have described .
The deposit contains carbon and sulphur , is soluble in concentrated sulphuric acid to a brown-purple solution , and in alcoholic caustic soda to a very dark brown solution from which acids precipitate it apparently unchanged .
It would therefore seem fair to conclude that carbon disulphide vapour has been decomposed , by the silent electric discharge , into sulphur and gaseous carbon monosulphide , that the latter has been condensed with the unchanged carbon disulphide at the temperature of liquid air , and that it polymerises at a slightly higher temperature with explosive violence to the brown solid .
In any case the experiments seem to suggest the existence of a new volatile sulphide of carbon .
If the above suggestion is correct , then the vapour of carbon disulphide is finally converted into two solids , and its pressure should disappear ; but so long as only gaseous carbon monosulphide is formed there should be no change of pressure .
An " ozoniser " sealed to a mercury manometer was carefully cleaned by heating under exhaustion and pure dry carbon disulphide vapour was admitted to a pressure of 15 mm. , the apparatus sealed and the silent discharge passed through the vapour .
In about 15 minutes the pressure had fallen to 1 mm. , at which value it remained .
This shows that carbon disulphide has been converted into non-volatile products , either sulphur and polymerised carbon monosulphide or the latter along with free carbon .
The influence of heat on the rapidly moving gaseous mixture which came from the " ozoniser " was now examined , and it was found that the gas in the presence of excess of carbon disulphide vapour was surprisingly stable .
Some 1910 .
] The Change of Carbon , etc. of the gas was still present after passing the product through a tube immersed in boiling sulphur or even through a short length of red hot tube , but it was completely destroyed after passing through 10 cm .
of red hot tube loosely packed with asbestos .
This unexpected stability at high temperatures corresponds with a character of endothermic bodies and suggests that the gas only becomes highly unstable when condensed .
, and that it might be preserved for some time in the presence of excess of carbon disulphide vapour at low pressures .
In order to test this possibility , a litre flask with a delivery tube leading nearly to the bottom was introduced between the " ozoniser " and the U-tube and the apparatus made solely of glass exhausted as before .
When the discharge had been passing for about 10 minutes the explosive gas could be detected by the flash got in the usual way in the small U-tube cooled in liquid air .
A small portion of the surface of the flask was now cooled by the application of a sponge containing liquid air , when a deposit of solid carbon disulphide was soon formed .
On removing the cooling agent this carbon disulphide soon melted to a coloured liquid and quickly evaporated , leaving a brown deposit .
After a few minutes the flask being again full of gas the charcoal bulb was shut off from the apparatus by means of a tap and the discharge stopped ; thus the large flask was left filled with carbon disulphide vapour containing about 10 per cent , of the new gaseous body if assumed to be carbon monosulphide .
At different intervals in separate experiments the cooling was repeated and it was found that the deposit of carbon disulphide was coloured and left a residue at any time less than 30 seconds after the discharge bad been stopped , but was colourless and left no residue when a minute had elapsed .
After several experiments had been made , the general surface of the flask was covered with a visible brown deposit .
It therefore appears that the gaseous sulphide of carbon polymerises rapidly at the ordinary temperature , even at low pressures and in the presence of a large excess of carbon disulphide .
It may be possible to separate the new body from the admixed carbon disulphide by fractional distillation at very low temperatures .
We hope to continue this investigation and to extend a similar study to other bodies .

