]\gt ; On a of Sphe rical Hence , the effect of elastic distortion is to prolong the period in the a spheroid of the same size and mean rotating iu a sidereal day , we find that the period is extended from 232 days days if the rigidity be that of steel .
Assuming tbab the case the actual Earth the effects of heteroto still further proIong the period in the ratio 305 : 232 , find the of oscill , of the Earth , of tho rigidify of steel , 440 days .
indicates that the earth is undergoing such an oscillation as have been discussing a period of 427 days instead of the period of days indicated by theor on the assumption that the mution would take place sensibly in the same manner if the .
We see now that the geItce between theol'y tion can be explained by taking into account the elastic tionH of the solid parts of earth , and that the of idity rquired to accoullt for observed period is slightly in of of steel .
explanation been offered by Professor colnb , the problcm by a simple geometrical method .
The main undertakiug tlJe present ] ytical i to eminc the validity of made by Newcomb .
An examinalion of the type of oscillation indicated by our ] ysis adopted by Newcomb is legitimate , but crro ] in ssumed law of displacement of the pole to trifugal force .
Our method has the additional of the degree of accuracy which the results Yllay ) to hold good .
II .
a Type of of unrestricted 1)egrec , Order , and Aument. .
By E. eceived Decembcr 23 , ( Abst act .
) of considered in this memoir , fies tho differential equation , ' Astron. Joul.'vols .
11 , seq. of Royal Astron. , 1892 .
as equation oegendre , ssociated functions .
Hobson.erical [ the degree , the order , and the argument are not , as in the case of the ordinary system of spherical harmonics , restricted to be real and such that and are integral and is a proper fraction , but supposed to have unrestricted real or complex values .
The investigation is undertaken with the object of bringing the various types of harmonics , such as toroidal functions , conal harmonics , \amp ; c. , under one general treatment .
The two particular functions , , which satisfy the above differential equation are defined in such a manner that they are uniform over the whole -plane , which , however , has a cross-cut extending along the real axis from to -co .
The definitions obtained are the following\mdash ; here in , bhe phases of , are both zero when is real and greater than unity , and each varies between the values for various positions of the point .
Precise definitions are given of the meanings to be attached to the integrands .
The path of integration in the case of consists of a loop described in the positive direction round the point , followed by one in the positive direction round the point , then a loop in the negative direction round the point , and finally a loop in the negative direction round the point , the whole forming a closed path , , one for which the integrand attains its initial value after a complete description .
In the case of only two loops are required to form the closed path , one described positively round , followed by one described negatively round .
Tbese definitions are so chosen that in the case of real integral values of and , the functions coincide with the ordinary well-known Legendre 's associated functions .
From these definitions the following representations of the functions by series are deduced\mdash ; , 1896 .
monics of Degree , Order , where ; the upper or lower sign is to be taken in the exponential , according the part of is positive 01 ative .
Degenerate forms oi these series special restrictions to and considered .
The following expressions for ) , when are .
relations the pal'ticular integrals of differelltial equation obtained by into , and into , are found ; by means of these relations the eight solutions are expressed iu terms of of them\mdash ; , It further shown that , , where the upper or lower sign in the exponentials is taken accordin as the inary part of is positive or negat The following expressions for the fnnctions are obtained for the domain of Dr. E. W. Hobson .
On a of Spherical [ Jan. 16 , ' ; the upper or lower sign is to be taken in the exponential , according as above or below the real axis ; , where , if is the real axis ; and , if is below the real axis .
Special conventions are made as to the valnes to be attached to the at points in the cross-cut the points ; these conventions are so made that the values of the functions shall be real for real values of and ; they are by , ; it is further shown that .
The following expressions are obtained for the functions in series of powers of :\mdash ; 1896 .
] of ree .
Order .
, ession for of the is obtained the fornl of th illleora ] , which ] } an tive d t- less e llot lily cible f the former ones .
in of ' the and the following arc dedured:\mdash ; 1 ' This ) resents the for unrestricted values it is , ever , shown that if nre , a iinite !
number of of esents the ) not htll ) ject to the .
E. W. .
On a 'lype of [ Jan. 16 , the same remal'ks holding for this series as for che last one , where must be greater than 3/ 2 The following.asymptotic values of the functions are obtained : \mdash ; The following expressions for the functions involving definite .
along real paths are obtained ; these incIude many known formulae as special cases:\mdash ; nonics of nnrestricted Degr is unrestricted , and must be such tha the is positive , that of must also be ; under the sa also is a real is unrestricted , and is any real positive than Iog .
, and the real part of is positive , where real parts of must be ; , and the parts of ) } be positive ; where real parts of and -ust be positive ; where the real part of must be positive .
On a 'Iype of erical Harmonics .
The following expressions are obtained:\mdash ; [ Jan. !
6 , ; this expansion holds for icted valnes of having all positive integral values ; is unrestricted and has . .
The following generalisations of the well-knovrn expressions of and Mehler for are obtained:\mdash ; where the real of is positive , and n is unrestricted .
which Lolds , provided real parts of are positive .
Various other definite integral formulae are deduced which hold undel ' })ecial conditions .
The followil]g recurrent relations are proved for unrestricted values of / 2 and , , with precisely corxesponding formulae for the functions .
The memoir concludes with an examination of the ring functions , and the harmonics for the cone and the bowl ; in particular , convergent series al.e obtained for both the tesseral toroidal functions .

