1003 .
] On the Histology of Uredo dispersa , etc. 353 " On the Histology of Uredo dispersa , Erikss .
, and the * Mycoplasm ' Hypothesis .
" By H. Marshall Ward , Sc. D. , F.B.S. , Professor of Botany in the University of Cambridge .
Beceived February 13 , \#151 ; Bead March 12 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The paper deals with a detailed study of the histological features of the germination , infection , and growth of the mycelium of the Uredo in the tissue of grasses .
Primarily , the figures refer especially to the Uredo of Pucciniadispersa in the tissues of but comparisons are made with the behaviour of this and other Uredineae\#151 ; e.g. , Puccinia glumanmand P. graminis\#151 ; in the tissues of other grasses and cereals .
The research , which has been carried on over a year and a half and has involved the preparation and microscopic examination of thousands of sections , is principally based on the application of improved hardening and staining methods to preparations from tube cultures of the grasses concerned , the leaves of which were infected at definite spots .
These tube-cultures were prepared according to the method previously described.* At definite intervals after sowing the spores\#151 ; e.g. , after 1 , 2 , to 6 and 8 days\#151 ; the infected areas were removed and placed in fixing solutions , and the life-history of the fungus traced step by step , and controlled by reference to uninfected areas .
The full paper is illustrated by numerous figures , and deals with the behaviour of the nuclei , vacuoles , septa , branches , haustoria , and other details of the hyphse up to the commencement of spore-formation .
The relations of the hyphse and haustoria to the cell-contents of the host are critically examined , and the cumulative evidence not only fails to support Eriksson 's Mycoplasm hypothesis ; but is completely subversive of it , so far as histological facts are concerned .
Eriksson 's hypothesis , which refers the epidemic outbreaks of rust to the sudden transformation into the mycelial form of a supposed infective substance , previously latent and invisible in the cytoplasm of the host , is shown to be untenable because the speciaux of this author are proved to be the cut-off haustoria of the fungus .
Eriksson supposes that these carp ( haustoria ) are formed by the hitherto latent germs in the host-cells , growing up in the cells into vesicles , which then pierce the cell-walls and give rise to hyphse in the intercellular spaces .
The present paper shows that Eriksson has entirely reversed the * " On Pure Cultures of a U recline , Puccinia dispersa ( Erikss .
) " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1902 , vol. 69 , p. 461 .
354 Mr. F. H. A. Marshall .
The ( Estrous Cycle and [ Feb. 17 , true order of events .
The haustoria have been formed by the hyphse , and figures are given showing every stage in their development .
The first haustorium may be formed by the infecting tube immediately after its penetration through the stoma , and figures are given showing the remains of the germ-tube outside a stoma , the swelling of its tip over the stoma into an appressorium , the passage through the stomatal cavity , and its development into a vesicular swelling whence the true infection tube arises , which latter may at once put forth a haustorium .
In some cases all these latter phenomena are visible in one and the same preparation .
The author expresses his thanks to Miss E. Dale , of Girton College , for valuable aid during the later stages of the work , in the embedding and cutting of numerous sections .
" The ( Estrous Cycle and the Formation of the Corpus Luteum in the Sheep .
" By Feancis H. A. Maeshall , B.A. Communicated by Professor J. 0 .
Ewart , F.E.S. Beceived February 17 , \#151 ; Bead March 12 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Introduction.\#151 ; A preliminary account of this investigation was communicated to the Boyal Society in 1901 , and published in the Proceedings for that year .
Subsequently the work has been carried further , and recently brought to a conclusion .
The Estrous Cycle.\#151 ; In Scotch black-faced sheep the length of the sexual season is shown to vary with the locality , both in regard to the number of dioestrous cycles in a season , and to the duration of each cycle .
It is shown further that there is a perfect gradation between the monoestrous condition of some wild sheep to the extreme polyoestrum of certain Merinos .
Superficial Phenomena of Procestrum and OEstrus.\#151 ; The prooestrum is marked by a mucous or sanguineo-mucous flow .
It is very rapidly succeeded by oestrus ( the period of desire ) , the two periods frequently seeming to occur simultaneously , but this is because of the abbreviation of the process .
The Histology of the Uterus during the Dioestrous Cycle.\#151 ; The changes through which the sheep 's uterus passes during a single dioestrous cycle can be divided into four groups or periods , as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Period of rest ; ( 2 ) Period of growth and increase of vessels ; ( 3 ) Period of breaking down of vessels and extravasation of blood ; ( 4 ) Period of recuperation and pigment formation .
Bleeding into the uterine cavity and at the external genital aperture does not always

