14 .
" On some Phenomena and Motions of Metals under the influence of Magnetic Force .
" By William Sykes Ward , Esq. Comr municated by William West , Esq. , F.R.S. In the course of some experiments relative to the principal phenomena of dia-magnetism , the author observed that the nature or direction of the action upon many metals varied with the intensity of the magnetic force , the effects being in accordance with the observations of Professor Plicker ; and in pursuing his researches with the view to ascertain how far the magnetic and dia-magnetic forces might be coexistent in the same metal , other phenomena dependent on the power of the magnet presented themselves .
On submitting gold , silver , lead , tin , zinc and cadmium to the action of the electro-magnet when excited by an electric current of moderate strength , or when the polar terminations of the magnet were at a distance not less than an inch , these metals pointed axially .
When the battery power was somewhat increased and the poles brought nearer to each other , instead of the metal being more strongly attracted , it became less sensible to either attraction or repulsion , becoming very sluggish in its motions ; but when the magnet was well-excited and the polar terminations brought within a quarter of an inch of each other , most of those metals pointed decidedly equatorially , and were repelled as dia-magnetics .
The author found that the phenomenon of revulsion , described by Faraday and more particularly noticed by him in copper , was exhibited in nearly all metals which are less magnetic than platinum , or less dia-magnetic than antimony , and noticed that the direction of the revulsive motion is different in magnetic and in dia-magnetic metals .
He also noticed that in metals , whether pure or compound , which changed from the magnetic to the dia-magnetic state , the direction of the revulsion changed .
Experiments are next described which were instituted for the purpose of ascertaining the order in which different metals are affected magnetically or dia-magnetically .
Phenomena are also described which present themselves when the polar terminations are from 0'25 inch to 0'1 inch apart , and a disc of metal is so suspended that one-half of it is between and the other half beyond these terminations .
If the metal be amongst those classed as magnetic , or be magnetically affected by the power employed , it is attracted , and after the first motion has subsided , clings to one of the polar pieces ; if the metal be dia-magnetic , it is repelled and in many instances driven entirely out from between the poles .
At the instant of the completion of the voltaic circuit , the disc of metal moves transversely , with a tendency to pass outwards from between the poles ; and on breaking the circuit , the disc moves transversely in the contrary direction .
The directions of these transverse motions are alike in all metals which do not become so strongly attracted by the magnetic influence as to cling firmly to one of the polar terminations , being in the same direction with platinum and palladium as with antimony and bismuth ; but they are exhibited with greatest force by those metals which decidedly show revulsion .
The author makes various hypothetical assumptions in order to explain the phenomena he has described ; and , in conclusion , states his opinion , " that the metals which have been observed to change from the magnetic to the dia-magnetic state are subject to three different conditions of molecular arrangement : the first , one of magnetic polarity , and which on its cessation only induces a feeble electric current ; the second , the intermediate or sluggish state , in which the metal is not polarized so as to be either attracted or repelled by the magnet , but in which there is nevertheless so great a molecular disturbance that very powerful electric currents are induced on its discontinuance ; and the third , in which the particles are so polarized as to be repelled by the poles of the magnet which has induced such condition , but which last condition does not , on its discontinuance , induce powerful electric currents .
"

