Account of the Changes that have happened , during the last Twenty-five Years , in the relative Situation of Double-stars ; with an Investigation of the Cause to which they are owing .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read June 9 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 339 .
] After some general observations on the various discoveries lately made , which have contributed to extend our knowledge of the construction of the heavens , Dr. Herschel assumes as a possibility , that among the multitude of the stars in the firmament , there may be instances of pairs of stars of the same or different relative magnitudes , which may revolve , either in circles or ellipses , round their common centre of gravity .
Having started this hypothesis , he proceeds to give an account of a series of observations on double stars , comprehending a period of twenty-five years , which , in his opinion , will go to prove , according to the above assumption , that many of them are not merely double in appearance , but must be allowed to be real binary combinations of two stars , intimately held together by the bond of mutual attraction .
In this inquiry , three bodies or points are to be exclusively attended to:-1st , the largest of the two stars which make up the double star ; 2nd , the smaller of these two stars ; and 3rd , the place of the sun , which at the great distance of the fixed stars may be taken for that of the observer .
It is obvious , that as this investigation must be conducted in an hypothetical manner , it is necessary to consider the appearances that would be produced by the motion of these three bodies , either singly , by pairs , or collectively .
This renders it necessary to contemplate a variety of cases , and previously to lay down a certain theory to which the observations may be referred upon the supposition of either of those cases .
For this purpose the author has drawn up tables , showing the appearances as to distance and angle of position that must result from the motions of either of those three bodies , whether in right ascension or declination .
As the number of double stars in which he has ascertained manifest changes in their relative positions amount already to more than fifty , our author thinks it advisable to confine himself in this paper to only a few of those instances ; and , accordingly , we find here an investigation of the changes of six double stars , viz. a Geminorum , y Leonis , E Bootis , ?
Herculis , a Serpentis , and y Virginis ; reserving himself to treat of the others in a future paper .
His observations on the double star a Geminorum commenced so long ago as the year 1779 , and have been regularly continued to the present time .
In this interval of twenty-three years and a half , the distance of the two stars has not varied , being constantly about two diameters of the large star ; but the angle of position has altered considerably .
In the year 1779 it measured 320 47 ' north preceding ; and by the last observation in the present year it is now only 10ยง 54 ' ; so that in the space of twenty-three years and a half it has manifestly undergone a diminution of no less than 21ยง 54 ' : and the intermediate observations leave no room to doubt that this change has been the effect of a gradual and regular motion .
A ' revolving star , it is evident , would at once explain such a progressive change in the angle of position , without an alteration of the distance ; but this being a supposition of which we have not hitherto any precedent , it ought certainly not to be admitted without the fullest evidence .
Accordingly , our author enters into a minute examination , founded on geometrical and optical principles , whether the above-mentioned phenomena cannot be satisfactorily explained by other motions of the stars or of the sun , according to the several hypotheses above indicated , with the addition of others in which the two stars are not supposed to be at equal distances from the sun .
Each of these hypotheses having been carefully investigated , it is found that all except that of a rotatory motion of the small star round the large one , or of their joint motions round a common centre of gravity , offer difficulties which cannot be surmounted .
Adopting , therefore , this last-mentioned hypothesis as the true one , our author proceeds to a more detailed examination of the several angles of position he has taken in the course of his observations ; and having also determined those angles by calculation from the annual rate of 56 ' 18 " , deduced from the total change in the whole period , he finds the agreement so obvious as hardly to admit of a doubt of this being the true mode of accounting for these variations .
He has , moreover , the satisfaction of being able to quote an observation of Dr. Bradley , made in the year 1759 , which he lately obtained from Dr. Maskelvne ; according to which , the two stars of a Geminorum were in that year seen in an angular position , exactly corresponding with the situation they ought to have been in , according to the rate here assigned for their rotatory motion : so that the time of a periodical revolution may now be calculated from an arch of 450 30( , which has been described in forty-three years and a half .
Thus , from the great regularity of this motion , he now thinks himself authorized to conclude , that the orbit in which the small star moves round the large one , or perhaps the orbits in which they both move round their common centre of gravity , are nearly circular , and at right angles to the line in which we see them ; and that the time of a whole apparent revolution will be about 342 years 10 months .
We shall not presume to enter here upon any detail of the investigations respecting the five other double stars mentioned in this paper , any further than to record the general results deduced from them .
In y Leonis the plane of the orbit of the small star is found not to be at right angles with the line of vision , the distances having varied considerably since the commencement of the observations , and these different distances affording the elements of an ellipsis which will explain the appearances , although the orbit be in fact , or nearly , circular .
The periodical time of this revolution is calculated at about 1673 years .
As to E Bootis , the changes observed during twenty-two years indicate that one of the periodical revolutions cannot take up much less than 1681 years ; but as the figure and situation of the orbit cannot as yet be accurately determined , some uncertainty still remains even concerning this period .
The observations on ?
Herculis afforded a phenomenon hitherto unknown in astronomy ; namely , -an occultation of one star by another .
Whether this be owing to solar parallax , to proper motion , or to the motion of one of the stars in an orbit whose plane is nearly coincident with the visual ray , is not as yet determined ; nor is any periodical time hitherto assigned to it .
The periodical time of a Serpentis is calculated at 375 years , and that of y Virginis at 705 years .
Their distances have not varied for many years back ; whence it may be inferred that the planes of their orbits are really or nearly at right angles with the visual ray .
Dr. Herschel being aware that the observations he brings forward in this paper are of a nature so delicate and minute as to afford opportunities for cavil , has been at considerable pains to point out the principal circumstances that contribute to the perfection of telescopes and micrometers , and the precautions to be used as to the state of the atmosphere .
Those ought , he thinks , to be particularly attended to by accurate observers .

