1885 .
] Magnetisation of Iron , Magnetisation of Metal Rods .
265 April 23 , 1885 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered tor them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Magnetisation of Iron .
" By John Hopkinson , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received March 30 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an acconnt of the results of experiments which have been made on a considerable number of samples of iron and steel of known composition , including samples of cast iron , malleable cast iron , wrought iron , ordinary steels , manganese , chromium , tungsten , and silicon steels .
The electrical resistance and the magnetic properties are determined in absolute measure .
Amongst the electrical resistances the most noteworthy fact is the very high resistance of cast iron , as much as ten times that of wrought iron .
The fact that manganese steel is almost non-magnetic is verified , and its actual permeability measured .
The action of manganese appears to be to reduce the maximum magnetisation of steel , and in a still greater ratio the residual magnetism , but not to affect the coercive force materially .
It is shown that the observed permeability of manganese steel containing 12 per cent , of manganese would be accounted for by assuming that this alloy consists of a perfectly non-magnetic material , in which are scattered about one-tenth part of isolated particles of pure iron .
Some practical applications of the results are discussed .
II .
" On the Changes produced by Magnetisation in the Length of Rods of Iron , Steel and Nickel .
" By Shelford BlDWELL , M.A. , LL. B. Communicated by Professor Guthrie , F.R.S. Received April 1 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) - The earliest systematic experiments on the effects produced by magnetisation upon the length of iron and steel bars are those of 266 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On theCha [ Apr. 23 Joule , an account of which is published in the " Phil. Mag. " of 1847 Joule 's experiments have many times been repeated , and his general results confirmed .
In particular , Prof. A. M. Mayer carried out a series of very careful observations with apparatus of elaborate con-struction and great delicacy.* The conclusions at which he arrived were in accord with those of Joule , so far as regards iron : in the case of steel there was some apparent discrepancy , which , however , might to a great extent be accounted for by differences in the quality of the metal used , and in the manner of conducting the experiments .
In 1882 Prof. Barrett published in " Nature " an account of some experiments which he had made , not only on iron but also on bars of nickel and cobalt , with the view of ascertaining the effect of magnetisation upon their length .
The knowledge on the subject up to the present time may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
Magnetisation causes in iron bars an elongation , the amount of f which varies up to a certain point as the square of the magnetising j force .
When the saturation point is approached the elongation is less I than this law would require .
The effect is greater in proportion to the softness of the metal .
2 .
When a rod or wire of iron is stretched by a weight , the elongating effect of magnetisation is diminished ; and if the ratio of the weight to the section of the wire exceeds a certain limit , magnetisation causes retraction instead of elongation .
3 .
Soft steel behaves like iron , but the elongation for a given magnetising force is smaller ( Joule ) .
Hard steel is slightly elongated , both when the magnetising current is made and when it is interrupted , provided that the strength of the successive currents is gradually increased ( Joule ) .
The first application of the magnetising force causes elongation of a steel bar if it is tempered blue , and retraction if it is tempered yellow : subsequent applications of the same external magnetising force cause temporary retraction , whether the temper of the steel is blue or yellow ( Mayer ) .
4 .
The length of a nickel bar is diminished by magnetisation , the maximum retraction being twice as great as the maximum elongation of iron ( Barrett ) .
In order that the results of Joule and Mayer might be comparable with those obtained by the author , he made an attempt to estimate the magnetising forces with which they worked .
From data contained in their papers , it was calculated that the strongest magnetising force used by Joule was about 126 units , while the strongest used by Mayer did not on the highest probable estimate ^exceed 118 units .
In the author 's experiments the magnetising force- was carried up to about 312 units .
The metal rods , too , were much smaller than any * " Phil , Mag. , " 1873 , vol. xlvi , p. 177 .
385 .
] Magnetisation in the Length of Rods of , fyc .
267 pinch had been before used for the purpose , ranging in diameter from *40 to 6'25 mm. Their length was in every case 100 mm. , and the pparatus was capable of measuring with tolerable certainty an longation or retraction equal to a. ten-millionth part of this length .
By using thinner iron rods and greater magnetising forces than hose previously employed , the following curious and interesting fact sras established .
If the magnetisation be carried beyond a certain ritical point the consequent elongation , instead of remaining stationary at a maximum , becomes diminished , the diminution increasing with the magnetising force .
If the force is sufficiently increased , a joint is arrived at where the ' original length of the rod is totally unaffected by magnetisation ; and if the magnetisation be carried still urther , the original length of the rod will be reduced .
It also appeared that the position of the critical point in steel depended in a very remarkable manner upon the hardness or temper of the metal ; considerable light is thus thrown on the apparently anomalous results obtained by Joule and by Mayer .
Further experiments disclosed strong reason for believing that the value of the critical magnetising force in a thin iron rod was greatly reduced by stretching ; this would Explain the fact that Joule obtained opposite effects with stretched and unstretched wires .
By ascertaining the relative values of the temporary moments induced by gradually increasing external magnetising forces , an attempt was made to connect the point of maximum elongation with a definite phase of the magnetisation of the several rods in which the lelongation had been observed .
Though more experiments must be made before it is possible to generalise from them with perfect safety , the results so far obtained by the author indicate the laws given below .
The elongations and magnetisations referred to are temporary only ; before the beginning of an experiment the rod was permanently magnetised by passing through the magnetising coil a current equal to the strongest subsequently used .
In iron the greatest elongation due to permanent magnetisation was generally found to be about one-third of the total elongation , while in nickel the permanent retraction amounted only to about one twenty-fifth part of the whole .
I. Iron .
| ! .
The length of an iron rod is increased by magnetisation up to a certain critical value of the magnetising force , when a maximum elongation is reached .
2 .
If the critical value of the magnetising force is exceeded , the elongation is diminished until with a sufficiently powerful magnetising force the original length of the rod is unaffected , and if the force is 268 Magnetisation and Length of Rods of , fyc .
[ Apr. 23 still further increased the rod undergoes retraction .
Shortly after the critical point is passed , the elongation diminishes in proportion as the magnetising force increases .
The greatest actual retraction hitherto observed was equal to about half the maximum elongation but there was no indication of a limit , and a stronger magnetising force would have produced further retraction .
3 .
The value of the external magnetising force corresponding to maximum elongation is for a given rod , approximately equal to twice its value at the " turning point .
" Definition.\#151 ; The turning point in the magnetisation of an iron bar is reached when the temporary moment begins to increase less rapidly than the external magnetising force .
4 .
The external force corresponding to the point of maximrim elongation increases ( when the quality of the iron is the same ) with the\lt ; diameter of the rod .
So also does its value at the turning point .
5 .
The amount of the maximum elongation appears to vary in-J versely as the square root of the diameter of the rod , when the quality of the iron is the same .
6 .
The turning point , and therefore presumably the point of maximum elongation , occurs with a smaller magnetising force when the rod is stretched than when it is unstretched .
II .
Steel .
7 .
In soft steel magnetisation produces elongation , which , as in the case of iron , increases up to a certain value of the magnetising force , and afterwards diminishes .
The maximum elongation is less than in iron , and the rate of diminution after the maximum is passed is also less .
8 .
The critical value of the magnetising force for a steel rod diminishes with increasing hardness up to a certain point , corresponding to a yellow temper ; after which it increases , and with very hard steel becomes very high .
There is therefore a critical degree of hardness for which the critical magnetising force is a minimum ; in steel of a yellow temper the value of the critical magnetising force is lower than in steel which is either softer or harder .
9 .
In soft steel a strong magnetising force subsequently diminished may cause a greater temporary elongation than the diminished force is capable of producing if applied in the first place .
10 .
A temporary elongation when once produced in soft steel may be maintained by a magnetising force which is itself too small to originate any perceptible elongation .
III .
Nickel .
11 .
Nickel continues to retract with magnetising forces far ex1885 .
] The Colouring of Phytophagous Larvae .
ceeding those which produce the maximum elongation of iron .
The greatest observed retraction of nickel is more than three times the maximum observed elongation of iron , and the limit has not yet been reached .
12 .
A nickel wire stretched by a weight undergoes retraction when magnetised .
III .
" The Essential Nature of the Colouring of Phytophagous Larvae ( and their Pupae ) ; with an Account of some Experiments upon the Relation between the Colour of such Larvae and that of their Food-plants .
" By Edward B. Poulton , M.A. , of Jesus and Keble Colleges , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor J. S. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1885 .
CONTENTS .
1 .
The essential nature of the colouring of Phytophagous larvae .
2 .
Methods by which the two factors of larval colouration may be recognised : instances of their occurrence .
3 .
The different results of methods of preservation upon the two factors in larval colouration .
4 .
Colours due to larval tissues independently of pigment .
5 .
Changes in the two factors of larval colouration before pupation .
6 .
The causes of colour in pupae .
7 .
The ultimate use of the derived pigments .
8 .
The probable history of larval colouration .
9 .
Spectroscopic examination of the blood of Lepidopterous larvae and pupae .
10 .
Comparison of the above results with those yielded by unaltered plant pigments .
11 .
Conditions under which the derived pigments exist in the larvae , \amp ; c. 12 .
Notes upon the physiology and chemistry of the blood of larvae and pupae .
13 .
The relations between the colour of Phytophagous lanrvae and that of their foodplants .
14 .
Experiments upon the larvae of Sphinx Ligustri .
15 .
Experiments upon the larvae of Smerinthus Ocellatus .
16 .
Observations in the field upon larvae of S. Ocellatus during 1884 .
^ 17 .
Experiments upon captured larvae of S. Ocellatus .
18 .
The protective character of the variations in the larvae of S. Ocellatus .
19 .
The complex nature of the influence of the food-plant upon the larvae of S. Ocellatus % 20- A. suggested explanation of the larval tendency towards certain colours independently of the food-plant .
\#171 ; 1 .
The essential nature of the changes in colour produced by food-plants .
22 .
Summary : and conclusion as to the nature of the influence of the food-plant .
Explanation of Spectrum chart .

