A paper was read , entitled , " Ofthe Functions of some parts of the Brain ; and of the relations between the Brain and Nerves of Motion and Sensation .
" By Sir Charles Bell , K.H. , F.R.S. The author commences his paper by an enumeration of some of the sources of difficulty and of error which have impeded the progress of discovery in the physiology of the brain ; the first impediment to which , he observes , " is in the nature of the inquiry , since extraor ?
dinary and contradictory results must be expected from experimenting on an organ so fine as that must be which ministers to sensibility and motion , and which is subject to change on every impression conveyed through the senses .
" Another cause of fallacy is the dependence of the brain on the condition of the circulation within it : but the most frequent source of error is the obscurity which hangs over the whole subject ; for although the brain be divided naturally into distinct masses , not one of these grand divisions has yet been distinguished by its functions ; and hence we may account for the failure of all attempts to explain the phenomena which attend injury of the brain .
The principle , now universally admitted , that nerves have distinct functions , and not a common quality , is pursued by the author in his investigation of the structure of the brain , in which he follows the nerves into that organ , and observes the tracts of nervous matter from which they take their origin .
He concludes from his inquiries that both sensibility and motion belong to the cerebrum ; that two columns descend from each hemisphere ; that one of these , the anterior , gives origin to the anterior roots of the spinal nerves , and is dedicated to voluntary motion ; and that the other , which from its internal position is less known , gives origin to the posterior roots of the spinal nerves , and to the sensitive root of the fifth nerve , and is the column for sensation .
He further shows that the columns for motion , which come from different sides of the cerebrum , join and decussate in the medulla oblongata ; that the columns of sensation also join and decussate in the medulla oblongata ; and lastly , that these anterior and posterior columns bear , in every circumstance , a very close resemblance to one another , in as much as the sensorial ex ?
pansions of both are widely extended in the hemispheres ; for they pass through similar bodies towards the base of the brain , and both concentrate and decussate in the same manner ; thus agreeing in every respect , except in the nervous filaments to which they give origin .
Hence he explains the phenomena of the loss of sensibility as well as the power of motion of one side of the body , consequent on injuries of the other side of the brain .

