574 On the Gaseous Condensable Explosive at Low Temperatures , produced from Carbon Disulphide Vapour by the Action of the Silent Electric Discharge.\#151 ; II .
By Sir James Dewar , M.A. , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge , and Humphrey Owen Jones , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Jacksonian Demonstrator in the University of Cambridge .
( Received August 5 , \#151 ; Read November 9 , 1911 .
) In a former Note communicated to the Society* we described the change of a rapid current of carbon disulphide vapour at a low pressure , under the influence of the silent electric discharge or of the ultra-violet radiation associated with it , into sulphur and a gaseous substance , condensable and explosive near the temperature of liquid air , forming a brown solid , resembling the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide previously obtained by the chemical interaction of thiophosgene and nickel carbonyl.f This gaseous condensed substance will be called hereafter the ozoniser product .
The present paper contains an account of the further study of this change and of the product obtained .
A number of experiments were made to ascertain if the phenomena observed were in any way dependent on the presence of impurities in the carbon disulphide .
( 1 ) Carbon disulphide was shaken first with concentrated sulphuric acid , then with mercury , and finally with lime , and was distilled , after which it was dried over pure phosphorus pentoxide .
The whole of the apparatus was also dried by contact with pure phosphorus pentoxide for 14 days .
( 2 ) Specimens of carbon disulphide wTere prepared from potassium trithio-carbonate and from potassium xanthate , dried and distilled , and were also submitted to the treatment described above before use .
( 3 ) Purified carbon disulphide standing over phosphorus pentoxide at 15 ' C. was distilled into a bulb cooled in liquid air , and from this was passed into the ozoniser .
( 4 ) Further , a quantity of charcoal was placed in the bulb containing the carbon disulphide , and the vapour was made to pass over a column of charcoal before it entered the ozoniser .
In all cases , however , when carbon disulphide distilling from the liquid * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 83 , p. 526 .
The investigation has been continued in the laboratories of Cambridge University and the Royal Institution , London .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 83 , p. 408 .
On the Gaseous Condensable Compound , etc. 5 kept at \#151 ; 78 ' C. into a charcoal condenser cooled to \#151 ; 185 ' C. was submitted to the action of the silent electric discharge , and the vapour together with any new product condensed in a U-tube placed in liquid air , a brown solid resulted , the formation of which was accompanied by a glow or a flash and usually by a detonation on removing the liquid air surrounding the U-tube .
Hence it is clear that- these phenomena are not caused by the presence of impurities in the carbon disulphide , and that the evolution of light and heat are definitely associated with the transformation of the condensed gaseous product into the brown solid .
It will be seen later that the flash and the detonation are to some extent variable phenomena .
The apparatus used in the later experiments differed in some respects from that used originally .
The bulb containing pure carbon disulphide , which was surrounded by a paste of solid carbon dioxide and ether , communicates , through a tap with the annular space of the ozoniser .
The ozoniser is connected by means of a 3-way tap with two quite similar U-tubes packed with finely-shredded cotton wool or asbestos that offer an equal resistance to the passage of the stream of vapour of carbon disulphide , and through a. second 3-way tap to the charcoal condenser immersed in liquid air .
When it .
was desired to observe the action of substances such as finely divided metals on the gases from the ozoniser these substances were either mixedf with or deposited on asbestos , so that the deposit obtained when the gases ; were passed through it and subsequently condensed by liquid air could be1 compared with that obtained when the gases had passed over pure asbestos .
Alternatively , either U could be left free of any filtering material , and the character and proportion of the material deposited compared .
In some of the experiments thick rubber tubing , previously soaked in molten paraffin , was used to make joints , so that the U-tubes could be removed and others substituted for them rapidly .
In some cases powders and liquids were exposed to the action of the stream of vapour from tha jzoniser .
Variation in Conditions of the Experiment .
In order to ascertain if the rate of production of the brown solid could be-increased , experiments were made in which the vapour of carbon disulphide evolved from the liquid at different temperatures between \#151 ; 78 ' C. and 0 ' C. was allowed to pass through an apparatus in which an ordinary vacuum tube-with flat platinum electrodes about 1 cm .
in diameter replaced the ozoniser .
and from this entered the wide tube condenser which replaced the U-tube used in other cases .
Under these conditions the vapour was submitted to the action of the electric discharge passing between the2 e 2 576 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Aug* 5 , platinum electrodes in the vacuum tube .
The surface of the vacuum tube soon became coated with a whitish deposit of sulphur and later with the brown solid .
The product condensed at the temperature of liquid air transformed into a brown solid with the evolution of light and heat as usual , and this occurred when the vapour had passed through the cotton-wool filter , but the phenomena were more striking when this was replaced by a plain tube , since under these conditions the quantity of material condensed in a given time is much increased .
Experiments were also made in which the ozoniser , which was of the simple tube form with external electrodes , was either cooled to \#151 ; 80 ' C. or heated to 220 ' C. , the other conditions being as usual .
In both cases the brown solid was formed in the U-tube , but the quantity obtained was less than under the ordinary conditions of temperature .
In none of the experiments was the amount of brown solid obtained greater than in those in which the vapour from carbon disulphide at \#151 ; 78 ' C. was passed through an ozoniser , and these conditions were therefore adopted for all subsequent experiments .
The determination of the ratio between the amounts of brown solid formed in the U-tube and of carbon disulphide passed through the ozoniser was found to be difficult owing to the almost invariable breaking of the U-tube during the transformation .
Several determinations were carried out successfully by collecting the carbon disulphide from the U-tube in a small capillary tube connected to the U-tube and measuring its volume and then determining the weight of solid left in the U-tube .
The ratio of the weight of the solid to that of the carbon disulphide varied from 1 to 10 to 1 to 50 in different experiments , and was found to depend on the form of the apparatus and the amount of solid surface which the ozoniser product passed over .
Another very potent influence was found to be the deposit on the ozoniser surface .
A clean ozoniser gave a much larger quantity of brown solid than an ozoniser that was coated with a deposit .
These ratios are lower than those given in the former paper ; this is , however , partly due to the greater length of the tubes between the ozoniser and the U-tube and the introduction of a tap , which , as will be seen later , tend to reduce the amount of brown solid collected owing to a greater proportion of it being polymerised in the ozoniser and leading tubes .
No difference in the behaviour of the ozoniser product has been traced to* variations in the amount of carbon disulphide condensed with it .
1911 .
] On the Gaseous Condensable , etc. 577 The Transformation of the Condensed Ozoniser Product into Non- Volatile Solid .
The solid deposited in the condenser at \#151 ; 185 ' C. is at first white , but soon acquires a brown colour , the darkest portion being that nearest the liquid air surface .
On allowing the temperature to rise , the brown colour spreads rapidly , and this change is usually accompanied by a glow or flash and a detonation which may be violent enough to shatter the condenser The transformation may , however , take place quietly without an audible detonation or a visible flash , and , on the other hand , a detonation may take place while the condenser is still immersed in liquid air .
The interposition of a cotton-wool filter between the ozoniser and the condenser diminishes the intensity of the phenomena observed in the condenser to a very considerable extent , and at the same time increases the rate at which brown solid is deposited in the ozoniser and leading tubes .
This is to be attributed chiefly to the fact that the rate at which the vapours pass through the apparatus is decreased by the filter .
The active gaseous substance consequently becomes transformed to a greater extent into solid and deposited in the ozoniser , and on the large amount of surface of the cotton wool .
Quantitative experiment showed that the interposition of cotton-wool filters reduced the rate of flow of carbon disulphide to about one-fourth its former value , and the amount of brown solid to about one-fifteenth .
When the U-tube was replaced by a condenser of the test-tube form cooled to \#151 ; 210 ' C. by immersion in liquid air under exhaustion and the gases admitted , the solid deposit , which was formed on the bottom of the wide tube , was perfectly white .
After 15 minutes , however , the deposit had acquired a brown colour , showing that even at \#151 ; 210 ' C. the transformation was taking place slowly .
On allowing the temperature to rise to \#151 ; 185 ' C. the transformation took place more rapidly .
Examination for Presence of Solid Particles in the Gases from the Ozoniser .
An arrangement of a litre bulb with a U-tube on either side was sealed between the ozoniser and the charcoal condenser .
An arc lamp was arranged to project a beam of light through this relatively large space filled with the transforming material from the ozoniser .
The glow in the ozoniser was screened off , and thus any solid particles in the bulb would be made evident by continued illumination of the beam through the bulb .
The conducted glow of the transformer caused an appearance like a faint brush discharge across the bulb , but this of course was quite lost when the are lamp was on .
Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Aug. 5 , No visibility of the arc lamp beam within the bulb was seen , whether it was arranged converging to a focus or was parallel .
The beam was .of course easily visible by the motes in the air right up to the bulb and beyond it , but within was absolute darkness .
Several good patches of transforming material were taken on the bulb by local condensation with a cotton-wool plug full of liquid air .
In 35 seconds after turning off the discharge in the ozoniser only white carbon disulphide was thus condensed , all the transforming material having gone .
A five minutes ' deposit taken in the second U-tube beyond the litre bulb gave the usual detonating transformation , and shattered the U-tube .
A similar deposit taken in the first Exploding Deposit in U-tube on removal from Liquid Air ( shaded portion due to flash of light ) .
U-tube produced , however , a distinctly more violent effect , and 2 or 3 inches of the tubes were completely shattered .
No cotton-wool plug was used between the ozoniser and the bulb in the above experiment .
Similar results as to non-visibility of the beam within the bulb were obtained when a cotton-wool plug was used ; but , as usual , the deposits now gave less violent transformations .
These observations indicate that the transformation of the gas into the brown solid only takes place in contact with solid surfaces .
The detonation of carbon disulphide with the production of carbon and sulphur could , theoretically , produce a temperature above 2000 ' C. , and if 1911.1 On the Gaseous Condensable , etc. 579 the transforming ozoniser product is comparably endothermic , then a similar rise of temperature might occur if it could decompose in the same manner .
We have proved that the temperature produced during the transformation is high by taking a photograph of the U-tube by its own detonating flash by means of a camera placed 18 inches from the tube in a dark room .
The figure is a photograph of a detonating deposit in a U-tube in which the cracks in the fractured tube are plainly seen .
A flame is seen bursting through one such crack , and the light extends for a considerable distance through the tube .
Before allowing the deposit to flash by the removal of the liquid air , in some experiments the U-tube was filled with dry nitrogen at atmospheric pressure , through a three-way tap on the charcoal bulb .
The right-hand limb of the U-tube contained copper wire gauze to cool the entering nitrogen and thereby prevent any undue heating of the deposit .
Two seven-minute deposits were successfully flashed after filling in the nitrogen .
In both cases a violent detonation resulted , and the tube was shattered .
The photographic plates showed good pictures of each flash , which was seen to be localised and not so intense , due no doubt to the relatively large pressure of nitrogen in the U-tube compared with previous experiments in which no inert gas was present .
Photographs of the Spectrum of the Flash .
The arrangement used to secure a photograph of the spectrum of the flashes consisted of a German silver U-tube with a quartz window at the top of one limb .
The window was a conical plug about 2 cm .
long and less than 1 cm .
in diameter , ground into a brass fitting brazed on to a vertical extension of one limb of the U-tube .
The fitting was also provided with a screwed nut to hold the plug in against the shock of the detonation .
The flash occurring in the tube was , by means of a quartz prism , projected through the quartz plug and reflected on to the slit of a Hilger quartz spectrograph .
The prism and U-tube were arranged quite close to the slit , which was J mm. wide .
Several flashes could thus be taken without the delay caused by the breaking of glass U-tubes , or the use of a quartz U-tube .
After a few flashes the underside of the quartz window became obscured ' by a brown film .
It was , however , a simple matter to remove this plug and replace it after cleaning .
It should be remarked that the stopcocks on either side of the metallic U-tube were usually closed before taking the flash , although several times this occurred prematurely owing to the conduction of heat to the deposit through the metal tube .
580 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ ^ug .
5 , Alio at seven flashes from deposits of 15 minutes ' periods were necessary to get a good image of the spectrum .
The sulphur bands , wave-lengths between 384 and 392 , and the cyanogen line 3885 were present .
The principal hydrocarbon bands were plainly visible , of which that at 436\#151 ; 443 was the strongest in the whole spectrum .
A strong band at 635\#151 ; 665 and scattered bands from 248 to 362 were present also , and fainter bands from 540 to 605 .
The solid product got after the flashes taken in the metal tube was found to be practically a mixture of carbon and sulphur due to the high temperature of the flash , as the character of the spectrum tends to show .
Tests for Electric Effect in the Transformation of the Condensed Product .
A receiver was constructed for condensing the ozoniser product on a hollow thin platinum cylinder at liquid air temperature , and the deposit was then allowed to transform , the cylinder being electrically connected to a charged electroscope .
When connected to the ozoniser and exhausted such a condenser did not induce any electroscopic leak .
On cooling the platinum cylinder end of the tube in liquid air no charge \#166 ; was communicated to the electroscope .
If the liquid air was removed and the cold tube touched or slightly rubbed , a charge was at once given to the electroscope .
Such a charge remained almost without diminution .
The effect of the transformation of the deposit was tried by collecting a deposit for five minutes on the platinum cylinder , by cooling the end of the tube in which it was placed to liquid air temperature while the discharge passed in the ozoniser in the ordinary way .
The stopcocks both on the .ozoniser and the charcoal were then closed , the electroscope charged , and the liquid air removed to allow the deposit to transform as usual .
If only a feeble flash from a small short-time deposit was obtained , no effect was observed on the electroscope .
If , however , a good bright flash was produced , then the leaves of the electroscope fell together a distance of not more than 2 mm. , even with the most intense flash .
In ordinary cases the charge remained practically unaltered , and the same effect was repeatedly observed whether the electroscope was charged positively or negatively .
If the electroscope was uncharged at the time of the flash , no charge occurred on the transformation of the deposit .
Attempts to Concentrate the New Gas .
It was found that the gas was completely condensed in a U-tube at \#151 ; 185 ' C. but that a similar U-tube , with a cotton-wool plug in the limb 1911.1 On the Gaseous Condensable , etc. 581 remote from the ozoniser , cooled to \#151 ; 120 ' C. by immersion in solid carbon dioxide under reduced pressure , allowed some of the gas to pass through it and to be condensed in a second U-tube at \#151 ; 185 ' C. The carbon disulphide used had been distilled at a low temperature under reduced pressure and kept over charcoal and anhydrous baryta .
The resistance of the cotton-wool plugs was estimated by cooling the carbon disulphide bulb to \#151 ; 78 ' C. and cooling the second U-tube in liquid air .
In five minutes a deposit 15 to 20 mm. in length was formed in this-U-tube .
The first U-tube was now cooled to between \#151 ; 115 ' and \#151 ; 120 ' G. , A slightly less dense deposit was obtained in the second U-tube in five minutes .
The two U-tubes being thus at \#151 ; 120 ' and \#151 ; 185 ' C. respectively , the discharge was started in the ozoniser .
In five minutes no coloured deposit could be seen in the U-tube in liquid air , but later the deposit became coloured , and in 20 minutes a distinct brown ring was observed at a point 3 mm. above the liquid air surface .
Where the gases entered the first limb of the U-tube at \#151 ; 120 ' C. a white crystalline deposit was observed ; this did not melt until the temperature had risen almost to 0 ' C. , when it distilled back into the bulb containing carbon disulphide .
This indicates that the ozoniser product contains two substances , and shows that the substance which gives rise to the brown solid is not condensed by cooling to \#151 ; 120 ' C. , but passes on and is slowly transformed into the brown solid in the U-tube at \#151 ; 185 ' C. Action of Coconut Charcoal and Rubber .
The vapours were passed over 0*5 to 1 grm. of coconut charcoal placed between the ozoniser and the U-tube at \#151 ; 185 ' C. When no discharge was passing through the ozoniser a white deposit of carbon disulphide began to appear in the U-tube after 10 minutes .
When a discharge was passing through the ozoniser a similar white deposit appeared in 10 minutes , which deposit remained colourless and evaporated completely when the temperature was allowed to rise .
The ozoniser product is therefore absorbed , destroyed , or caused to polymerise by charcoal .
The same result was obtained when the charcoal was cooled to \#151 ; 78 ' C. or heated to 250 ' C. The vapours were now passed over 1 grm. of finely shredded rubber in order to absorb some of the carbon disulphide .
The brown solid was formed as usual , but the amount of carbon disulphide deposited with it was Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Aug. 5 , distinctly less .
It therefore appears that a partial separation of the transforming ozoniser product from the disulphide has been effected .
A complete separation of the two substances seems to be for the present out of the question on account of the rapidity with which the ozoniser product polymerises in the solid state at low temperatures .
Collection and Analysis of the Solid Product .
A quantity of the brown solid was now collected in order to ascertain its composition and properties after the removal of any free sulphur .
For this purpose the cotton-wool filter was removed and the U-tube condenser replaced by one having the shape of a large test-tube .
In this way the deposit was formed over a large area of the wide tube , and the risk of fracture during the transformation diminished .
Experiments were carried on for from six to ten hours , and at intervals of about 30 minutes the liquid uir was removed and the deposit allowed slowly to transform .
At the end of the operations the condenser was broken , and the brown solid removed .
Owing to the frequency with which glass LJ-tubes were shattered by the detonation accompanying the transformation of the deposit they had to be abandoned , as it was found extremely difficult to collect appreciable quantities of the deposit : all the more so as the substance adhered to the glass .
Finally , in one experiment , lasting six hours , at the end of which the glass condenser was intact , enough material ( Off 127 grm. ) was obtained to allow of the estimation of sulphur in it , which gave S = 71'8 per cent. , CS requires S = 72'7 per cent. Further , the ratio C : S was determined in another specimen collected from number of experiments in which the condenser had been cracked and shattered .
This specimen was probably contaminated with minute fragments of glass and also contained moisture .
The material gave on analysis :\#151 ; S = 6F0 per cent. , C = 24'6 per cent. , and ratio C : S \#151 ; 1 : 0'854 , or , allowing for the 5 per cent , of water present as impurity , C : S = 1 : 0*93 .
The substance produced in the manner described lias the composition of carbon monosulphide , and it seems justifiable to conclude that , under the influence of the silent electric discharge , carbon disulphide has , like carbon dioxide under similar conditions , been dissociated , in this case i-nto sulphur and gaseous carbon monosulphide , and that the latter can polymerise with the evolution of a considerable amount of energy to form a brown solid even 1911 .
] On the Gaseous Condensable , etc. 583 \#171 ; , t the temperature of liquid air .
It is the remarkable instability of the solid .or liquid gas at low temperatures that is so characteristic and renders the physical and chemical examination so difficult .
Material Deposited in the Ozoniser .
In all experiments the ozoniser gradually became covered with a brown \#166 ; deposit ; the rate at which this accumulated was much increased when the rate of flow of vapour through the apparatus was diminished by the introduction of a cotton-wool or asbestos filter .
In order to remove sulphur as completely as possible from the deposit , about half a gramme of it was heated to 380 to 400 ' C. for some hours in a vacuum maintained by charcoal cooled in liquid air .
The residue gave with sulphuric acid the brown-purple colour characteristic of the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide , and an estimation of the amount of sulphur gave flQ'G per cent. , while CS requires 72*7 per cent. Hence it would appear that a mixture of free sulphur and a polymeride of carbon monosulphide is deposited in the ozoniser .
Losanitsch* observed the formation of a brown deposit when carbon disulphide was exposed to the action of the silent electric discharge , and .concluded from its composition that it was a polymeride of carbon disulphide , whereas it was probably a mixture of sulphur and the polymeride of carbon monosulphide .
Chemical Reactions of the Ozoniser Product .
The action of a number of substances on the ozoniser product wa3 studied by placing the substances to be examined ; either mixed with or .deposited on asbestos in a U-tube , and allowing the vapours to pass over them .
In this way it was found that the passage of the ozoniser product was prevented by finely divided platinum , nickel , or silver .
In the last-mentioned case only could any change in the appearance of the metal be detected ; white precipitated silver gradually acquired a bronze .colour , and ceased to prevent the passage of the ozoniser product .
When the silver was subsequently heated with concentrated sulphuric acid , the .characteristic colour given by polymeric carbon monosulphide was obtained , linely divided nickel was found to be particularly active , since 0 05 grm. was still able to prevent the passage of the ozoniser product completely .after it hid been in use for 15 hours , and its weight had increased 0'048 grm. Treatment of the nickel with concentrated sulphuric acid or * ' Ber .
, ' 1907 , vol. 40 , p. 4656 .
Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Aug. 5 , with nitric acid failed to show the presence of polymerised carbon mono-sulphide , although both carbon and sulphur were present .
The same applies-to platinum and carbon , hence these substances seem to be capable of causing decomposition of the ozoniser product .
Ferric oxide ( not ignited ) , yellow mercuric oxide , and silver oxide were found to react with the ozoniser product to form sulphides of the metals ; .
ferric oxide is much more efficient than the other two oxides .
In the case of ferric oxide the reaction was investigated more fully by collecting the gaseous products in a small tube containing 0*2 grin , charcoal placed in liquid air , and then extracting and examining the gas , which was-found to consist of carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide .
Solid caustic potash , silver nitrate , lead acetate , and sodium peroxide seemed to have little or no action on the ozoniser product , while barium peroxide reacted with it , forming barium sulphide .
When the vapours were passed over the surface of nitric acid , the ozoniser product was entirely destroyed .
The most striking reaction we have observed is that which takes place with concentrated sulphuric acid .
After some experiments had shown that , as used , the vapour of carbon disulphide wras not attacked by sulphuric acid , , the ozoniser product was allowed to pass over the surface of sulphuric acid placed in a wide U-tube .
The sulphuric acid rapidly acquired a yellow colour , changing .gradually into deep orange-red , then became turbid , and deposited a yellow solid ; brisk effervescence occurred during the whole time , , and even after several hours none of the ozoniser product escaped the action of the acid .
The yellow solid which separated from the sulphuric acid was found to be sulphur .
In order to examine the gaseous products , the reaction was carried out in an apparatus with no rubber connections , and the gases produced were collected in a small charcoal condenser placed in liquid any from which they were subsequently expelled and examined .
One experiment , which lasted three hours , gave : 10 c.c. of gas , of which 5 c.c. were sulphur dioxide ; 2*2 c.c. carbon dioxide ; 2-2 c.c. carbon monoxide and the remainder nitrogen .
Effect of Mixing Carbon Disulphide Vapour that of Other Substances .
In order to ascertain whether the presence of other substances in the ozoniser would influence the result of the action of the silent electric discharge on carbon disulphide , or in any way modify the phenomena accompanying the transformation of the product , some experiments were-made in which hydrogen , nitrogen , ethyl ether , methyl iodide , or chloroform was passed through the ozoniser , together with the carbon disulphide .
1911 .
] On the Gaseous Condensable etc. 585 The introduction of hydrogen or nitrogen was effected by allowing the pure dry gas to leak slowly through a capillary tube dipping in the carbon disulphide .
Ether was mixed with the liquid carbon disulphide in the proportion of two to one by volume , while methyl iodide or chloroform were volatilised from separate bulbs fitted with taps connected to the apparatus .
The methyl iodide bulb was kept at \#151 ; 78 ' C. , and the chloroform one at \#151 ; 69 ' C. , so that the vapour in each case was used at approximately the same vapour-pressure as that of the carbon disulphide .
In each of the five cases mentioned above , the usual phenomena were observed .
In the case of the gases hydrogen and nitrogen this is only true for small leaks , since larger quantities of gas reduce the vacuum , and so prevent the passage of a rapid stream of vapour through the ozoniser .
Methyl iodide and chloroform were themselves decomposed on passing through the apparatus , with the production of iodine and chlorine respectively , but these products did not interfere with the formation of the brown solid , which was accompanied by the usual flash and detonation .
Other Sulphur Compounds Examined .
A number of other sulphur compounds have been submitted to a treatment similar to that which results in the decomposition of carbon disulphide ; a rapid stream of vapour at a pressure of about 1 mm. or more was exposed to the action of the silent electric discharge in an ozoniser , and also exposed to the electric discharge between platinum electrodes in a vacuum tube and the products collected in a condenser at \#151 ; 185 ' C. The following substances have been examined in this way:\#151 ; Thiophosgeue , diethylsulphoearbfinate , diethyldithiocarbonate , diethyltrithiocarbonate , and thiophene , but in no case has the production of carbon monosulphide been observed .
Properties of the Brown Solid Produced the Electric Discharge Compared with those of tlu Polymeric Form of Carbon Monosulphide Previously Described .
The properties of the brown solid produced from carbon disulphide as described above , called A for brevity , which has been shown to have the composition of carbon monosulphide , have been compared with those of the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide , called B , obtained from the interaction of thiophosgene and nickel carbonyl .
The density of A is about T88 and is appreciably greater than that of B , which is about 1*6 , or 1*83 when compressed .
B dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid in the cold to produce an intensely brown purple coloured solution , while A only dissolves in the same substance above 100 ' C. , and produces a similar coloured solution .
1911 .
] On the Gaseous Condensable , etc. 585 The introduction of hydrogen or nitrogen was effected by allowing the pure dry gas to leak slowly through a capillary tube dipping in the carbon disulphide .
Ether was mixed with the liquid carbon disulphide in the proportion of two to one by volume , while methyl iodide or chloroform were volatilised from separate bulbs fitted with taps connected to the apparatus .
The methyl iodide bulb was kept at \#151 ; 78 ' C. , and the chloroform one at \#151 ; 69 ' C. , so that the vapour in each case was used at approximately the same vapour-pressure as that of the carbon disulphide .
In each of the five cases mentioned above , the usual phenomena were observed .
In the case of the gases hydrogen and nitrogen this is only true for small leaks , since larger quantities of gas reduce the vacuum , and so prevent the passage of a rapid stream of vapour through the ozoniser .
Methyl iodide and chloroform were themselves decomposed on passing through the apparatus , with the production of iodine and chlorine respectively , but these products did not interfere with the formation of the brown solid , which was accompanied by the usual flash and detonation .
Other Sulphur Compounds Examined .
A number of other sulphur compounds have been submitted to a treatment similar to that which results in the decomposition of carbon disulphide ; a rapid stream of vapour at a pressure of about 1 mm. or more was exposed to the action of the silent electric discharge in an ozoniser , and also exposed to the electric discharge between platinum electrodes in a vacuum tube and the products collected in a condenser at \#151 ; 185 ' C. The following substances have been examined in this way:\#151 ; Thiophosgeue , diethylsulphocafbonate , diethyldithiocarbonate , diethyltrithiocarbonate , and thiophene , but in no case has the production of carbon monosulphide been observed .
Properties of the Brown Solid Produced the Electric Discharge Compared with those of t]ie Polymeric Form of Carbon Monosulphide Previously Described .
The properties of the brown solid produced from carbon disulphide as described above , called A for brevity , which has been shown to have the composition of carbon monosulphide , have been compared with those of the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide , called B , obtained from the interaction of thiophosgene and nickel carbonyl .
The density of A is about 1*88 and is appreciably greater than that of B , which is about T6 , or 1*83 when compressed .
B dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid in the cold to produce an intensely brown purple coloured solution , while A only dissolves in the same substance above 100 ' C. , and produces a similar coloured solution .
586 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Aug. 5 , .
Both A and B dissolve in concentrated nitric acid , forming red solutions .
B dissolves readily in alcoholic solutions of caustic soda and sodium hydrosulphide , forming black solutions , whereas most specimens of A dissolve in these solvents only to a slight extent after long boiling .
B is slightly soluble in certain organic solvents such as carbon disulphide , nitrobenzene , and ethylene dibromide , whereas A is practically insoluble in such solvents .
The action of heat on both substances is practically the same ; at a dull red heat , in absence of air , carbon disulphide and carbon are produced from each .
Actually this change takes place slowly at the boiling point of sulphur , and at this temperature B decomposes more rapidly than A , but the difference is slight .
Since we find that a mixture of carbon and sulphur also slowly yields carbon disulphide at the boiling point of sulphur , the above observation does not serve as a distinction between a compound of carbon and sulphur and a mixture of these elements .
* Both A and B when mixed with sulphur and heated to 440 ' slowly yield carbon disulphide , and the amount obtained in the same time is approximately twice as great as when either is heated alone .
The observation recorded in the " Note on Carbon Monosulphide " * was erroneous , and the behaviour of the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide prepared from the interaction of thiophosgene and nickel carbonyl agrees in this respect with that of the substance obtained by Sidot by the action of light on carbon disulphide .
The above comparison of properties indicates that the difference between the brown substance obtained by the action of the electric discharge on carbon disulphide vapour and the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide-obtained from thiophosgene may be merely in the degree of polymerisation .
Such differences seem to exist between the products of the action of light on carbon disulphide at \#151 ; 80 ' C. and at the ordinary temperature , , and between different specimens of the product from thiophosgene depending on the temperature to which they have been heated in drying , since in these cases different specimens show differences in density and in solubility .
In the experiments on the action of heat on the substance produced by the electric discharge , in which this was heated alone in a vacuum maintained by charcoal cooled in liquid air , it was found that a small quantity of molecular sulphur , sublimed on the cooler parts of the tube .
This was never observed when the substance obtained from the thiophosgene was similarly treated .
It is difficult to be quite certain that the substance did not contain small quantities of sulphur carried over from the ozoniser , but- * Loc .
cit. , p. 413 .
1911 .
] On the Gaseous Condensable Compound , etc. this suggests that the brown solid obtained from the transformation of the condensed gas consists partly of a mixture of carbon and sulphur resulting from the decomposition of a portion of the substance at the high temperature to which it is subjected during the transformation .
In those cases in which the transformation of the condensed product into the brown solid was accompanied by a detonation which shattered the condenser it was found that a thin deposit of fine soot partly covered the U-tube ; this observation also points to the decomposition of a portion of the substance , or of some of the carbon disulphide mixed with it , under the influence of the high temperature produced .
Further , in the experiments in which a metallic U-tube was used the material collected did not give the colour tests for polymeric carbon monosulphide ; therefore in this case the decomposition of the carbon monosulphide appears to have been practically complete .
Other Methods of Producing Polymeric Forms of Carbon Monosulphide .
It has been shown above that the ozoniser product polymerises under certain conditions with explosive violence to produce a substance resembling the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide which was produced by the interaction of thiopliosgene and nickel carbonyl , previously described .
A polymeric form of carbon monosulphide was also obtained by Sidot , * and this method of production has been further studied .
Pure carbon disulphide at 15 ' C. or \#151 ; 78 ' C. is slowly changed on exposure to light to a yellowish-brown solid and sulphur .
The solid is deposited on the walls of the containing vessel and soon cuts off the light and prevents further action , hence only very small quantities of the product can be obtained in this way , but it was found to give the brown-purple colour with sulphuric acid .
The colour and density of the products obtained under different conditions varied to a greater extent than those of the products obtained from thiophosgene , but all seem to be carbon mono-sulphide polymerised to different degrees .
In order to obtain a quantity of the product of the action of light on carbon disulphide we made use of the fact that the product is soluble in sulphuric acid .
Flasks containg 100 c.c. of pure carbon disulphide and 200 c.c. of concentrated sulphuric acid were exhausted , sealed , and exposed to sunlight for three months , during which time they were shaken vigorously at frequent intervals .
The action of light was rapid at first and the product was removed by the sulphuric acid which became highly coloured and opaque , but finally the * 'Comptes Eendus , ' 1872 , vol. 74 , p. 179 ; 1875 , vol. 81 , p. 32 .
588 On the Gaseous Condensable Compound , .
action became extremely slow , probably owing to the absorption of the light by the solution of sulphur in carbon disulphide .
On opening the flasks the odour of sulphur dioxide was observed .
The sulphuric acid was slowly poured into water , when a dark floceulent precipitate separated , together with some sulphur .
The precipitate was filtered , washed , and dried at 150 ' C. in a vacuum .
In one such experiment the product weighed 0-201 grm. , and was found to contain 81-3 per cent , of sulphur .
In another experiment the product was heated for three hours to 360 ' C. in a carbon liquid air vacuum and was then found to contain 747 per cent , of sulphur .
CS requires 72*7 per cent. This product exhibited all the characteristic properties of the polymeric form of carbon monosulphide .
The interaction of the polymeric form of tliiophosgene ( CSC12)Z and nickel carbonyl has also been studied .
The reaction takes place slowly in the cold and rapidly at 100 ' C. , with the production of carbon monoxide , nickel chloride , and a polymeric form of carbon monosulphide having all the properties of the product obtained from thiophosgene , or by the action of light on carbon .disulphide .
Specific Heat and Heat of Combustion of Polymeric Carbon Owing to an oversight , the values obtained for the specific heat and heat of combustion of .the polymeride of carbon monosulphide obtained from thiophosgene were omitted from the note describing this substance , and are therefore included here .
The specific heat of this polymeric form of carbon monosulphide was determined between +15 ' C. and \#151 ; 185 ' C. by means of the liquid air calorimeter .
A specimen of the substance compressed into a block was rrsed and two determinations gave the values O'128 and 0T26 : the mean of these gives 5'59 as the molecular heat of carbon monosulphide .
The atomic heat of carbon for the same range of temperature is l-236 and that of sulphur is 4-32 , the sum of these , 5'556 , is very nearly the same as the value found for the molecular heat of the compound .
The specific heat and latent heat of fusion combined , of carbon disulphide , for the same range of tempera -ture is 0'222 , or , as we should expect , much higher than that of the ( CS)X .
Two determinations of the heat of combustion of this carbon monosulphide were made in a bomb calorimeter and the values 179,700 and 176,400 calories were obtained for the reaction [ ( CS)X 202 ] .
Taking the mean of these , the value for the heat of formation of ( CS)* is found to be \#151 ; 10,000 calories , which is approximately half that of carbon disulphide .

