1905 .
] the Beta and Gamma Rays of Radium .
511 " Phosphorescence caused by the Beta and Gamma Bays of Badium.\#151 ; Part II .
" By G. T. Beilby .
Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. B.S. Beceived February 9 , \#151 ; Bead February 23 , 1905 .
19 .
By the study of the-case of barium platino-cyanide , it has been shown that certain forms of phosphorescence or luminescence are due to change of physical state\#151 ; e.g. , to the passage from the crystalline to the amorphous state , or from one amorphous state to another .
The molecular movement required to bring about these changes may be caused\#151 ; ( 1 ) by disintegration produced by mechanical means , as in the crushing or flowing of crystals ; ( 2 ) by the expulsion of a volatile constituent , as in the dehydration of crystals , the molecular movement which necessarily occurs at the moment of expulsion being taken advantage of by the forces of cohesion to establish new arrangements of the molecules either crystalline or amorphous ; and ( 3 ) by a condition of excessive vibration and ultimate overstrain set up by a stream of electrons , as in the radium or the cathode rays .
20 .
After due allowance has been made for the element of physical change , there remains a large class of phosphorescent phenomena which cannot be thus explained ; but I believe that the clear recognition of the part played by physical change at once makes the consideration of the latter class much simpler .
21 .
Even in the case of platino-cyanide , .
where it is seen that physical changes play so large a part in the phosphorescent phenomena , there remains a certain residuum of phosphorescent effect which appears to be independent of the physical condition of the substance .
Platino-cyanide itself , therefore , opens the way to a further study of the phenomena of phosphorescence ; but other substances in which the physical state plays a less important part are better suited for this study .
22 .
Throughout this paper the different phases of luminescence are referred to as : primary phosphorescence , or the luminescence produced under the direct influence of a stimulus , e.g. , the j3 rays or the cathode rays ; secondary phosphorescence , or the luminescence which continues after the direct stimulation has ceased ; revived phosphorescence , or the luminescence revived by heat after the secondary phosphorescence has diminished or ceased altogether .
23 .
It has been shown that primary phosphorescence is exhibited under various forms of stimulation and ' under conditions in which the elastic vibration of molecules or molecular aggregates might alone account for the generation of light waves .
But when the secondary and the revived forms of phosphorescence appear , it becomes necessary to suppose that these effects are due to some more intimate changes among the atoms themselves ; in other words , to the play of chemical VOL. LX XIV .
2 P 512 Mr. Gr .
T. Beilby .
Phosphorescence caused [ Feb. 9 , affinity .
The association of phosphorescence with certain forms of slow oxidation was early recognised , and possibly for this reason there has sometimes been a tendency to limit the chemical view to this type of action .
But from the observations which follow it will be seen that with many substances the chemical actions which occur must necessarily be self-contained and independent of atmospheric or other surroundings .
24 .
The chemical action of the rays from radio-active substances has been recognised from the first .
Among the most prominent examples of this action are\#151 ; the reduction of sensitive silver salts in photographic films which led to the original discovery of the rays by M. Becquerel ; the coloration of glass , first observed by M. and Madame Curie , and afterwards attributed by Elster and Geitel and other observers to the reduction and separation of the alkali metals in a state of solid solution ; the electrolysis of water ; and the separation of iodine from iodoform , observed by W. B. Hardy and Miss Willcox in the liquid state , and more recently by van Aubel in the solid state .
Some of these actions have been recognised by direct chemical tests , while others have been inferred from the colour changes occurring in the substances exposed to the rays .
25 .
So far as I can learn , no systematic attempt has yet been made to trace the connection between the chemical , the coloration , and the luminescent effects of the / 3 rays .
The observations which follow are to some extent a repetition of the experiments of previous workers on the subject , but they have been extended in particular directions with the express object of throwing light on the problems of secondary and revived phosphorescence .
In these observations , as in those recorded in the first part of the paper , the substances under examination were exposed to the / S and y rays only ( see paragraph 3 ) .
26 .
A polished lens of rock crystal , after exposure to the rays for four days , showed a patch of dark brown coloration at the spot where the rays had entered .
On removal from the radium , the coloured patch phosphoresced faintly .
This cotdd only be seen in complete darkness .
After an interval of six weeks the lens showed no trace of phosphorescence at the ordinary temperature , but on heating it on a hot plate to rather over 100 ' the coloured patch glowed so brightly that it lighted up the rough edges of the lens and showed its complete outline quite distinctly .
On raising the lens to a considerably higher temperature , probably over 250 ' , it glowed more brightly , and then the glow ceased altogether .
The brown coloration had now completely disappeared .
27 .
A colourless crystal of calcspar , measuring roughly 17 x 12 x 6 mm. , was exposed to the rays for six days.^ A faint yellow coloration marked the spot where the rays had entered .
The coloration had penetrated about 2 mm. below the surface .
When the crystal was first 1905.1 the Beta and Gamma Rays of Radium .
513 placed on the radium cell it phosphoresced with a pale greenish light 3 but after a few minutes the spot at which the rays entered glowed with an orange red phosphorescence .
This glow rose to a certain pitch , and then continued fairly uniform throughout the .exposure to the rays .
On removal from the radium at the end of six days the crystal continued to phosphoresce as brightly as it had done in the path of the rays .
Twenty-four hours later the crystal still phosphoresced , though less brightly .
On warming it to 80 ' the glow became brighter than it had originally been .
On cooling again to the ordinary temperature the glow was feebler than it had been before heating .
The reserves of phosphorescing power had evidently been more quickly expended at the higher temperature .
28 .
The gradual disappearance of the phosphorescence was watched day by day for a week .
Four days after removal from the radium the crystal could still be seen in complete darkness .
Heated to over 100 ' , the phosphorescence was much augmented , but the glow was distinctly whiter than it had originally been .
Five days after removal from the radium the crystal had become quite invisible in complete darkness , but on heating it to over 100 ' it again phosphoresced .
On the sixth day it still phosphoresced feebly when heated to 100 ' , but on raising it to 150 ' it glowed so brightly that it could be seen distinctly in a dimly lighted room .
The phosphorescence was now even whiter and more diffused than it had been before .
On the fifth day the patch of yellow coloration had completely disappeared .
This disappearance coincided with the loss of phosphorescence at the ordinary temperature and also with the development of the whiter and more diffuse glow when the crystal was heated .
On the seventh day the crystal heated to 150 ' gave a feeble white phosphorescence .
On this occasion a crystal of calcspar , which had not been exposed to the radium , was heated side by side with the other which had .
This fresh crystal gave absolutely no phosphorescence at 150 ' .
29 .
A piece of potash glass exposed to the rays showed a feeble fluorescence .
After 60 hours -it was removed from the radium .
Where the rays had entered the surface , a strong brown coloration had taken place .
This coloured patch phosphoresced feebly .
Six weeks later the glass was examined and showed no phosphorescence at the ordinary temperature , but on heating to 100 ' it gave a faint greenish glow .
The depth of colour of the brown patch in the glass showed no diminution of intensity at the ordinary temperature with the lapse of time , but on heating to about 200 ' the coloration completely disappeared .
30 .
A lens of colourless flint glass , tested for lead by heating one of its edges to the softening point in a gas flame , showed the usual brown coloration of lead glass .
The lens was placed on the radium cell and at once phosphoresced feebly .
After 12 hours ' exposure to 514 Mr. G. T. Beilby .
Phosphorescence caused by [ Feb. 9 the ( 3 rays , it showed no secondary phosphorescence on removal from the cell , and no revived phosphorescence when it was heated to about 200 ' .
A brown coloration , which had resulted from the action of the rays , had completely disappeared after the heating to 200 ' .
After a further exposure of 48 hours to the ( 3 rays , the brown coloration was much stronger , but it showed neither secondary nor revived phosphorescence .
31 .
A crystal of potassium iodide placed on the radium cell phosphoresced faintly .
After three hours ' exposure the phosphorescence Was distinctly stronger , and : on removal from the rays a faint secondary phosphorescence could be detected .
* This died out in a few minutes , but was revived for a few minutes on heating the crystal to 150 ' .
After 12 hours ' exposure to the rays , , a faint blue-green colour had developed , which , however , disappeared after the crystal had been kept in the dark for a few hours .
32 .
A crystal of potassium chloride became red-purple after it had been two hours on the radium cell ; during the exposure it phosphoresced faintly .
On removal from the rays it gave a faint and brief secondary phosphorescence and a brighter revived phosphorescence on heating to 100 ' .
After heating , the purple colour had disappeared .
33 .
A crystal of potassium bromide , after exposure for one hour , became blue-green and phosphoresced brightly .
On removal from the rays it phosphoresced strongly , and on heating to 100 ' , it glowed with revived phosphorescence and lost its blue-green colour .
These potassium salts show the same association of colour with luminescence as oalcspar , quartz , and glass , but all the effects are of a more evanescent character .
34 .
A crystal of potassium chloride was crushed and then flowed into amorphous scales .
The scales when placed on the radium cell phosphoresced faintly , and in 30 minutes were tinted with a red-violet .
In six hours the colour had deepened .
On removal from the rays there was secondary phosphorescence , but both this and the colour disappeared more quickly than had been the case with the more massive crystal .
35 .
A small crystal of calcspar was crushed and then flowed into amorphous scales .
The scales were placed on the radium cell .
They phosphoresced very faintly , and there was no obvious increase over a period of three hours ' exposure .
Removed from the rays there was faint secondary phosphorescence , and when heated to rather below 100 ' they glowed with a bright orange phosphorescence and continued to do so for some minutes .
' 36 .
In the last two observations , after making due allowance for the small quantities employed and their fine state of division , it appears that the fact of a substance being in the amorphous instead 1905 .
] the Beta and Gamma Bays Radium .
515 ; of the crystalline condition does not necessarily interfere with the 1 generation and storage of energy which can afterwards be set free by heat and give rise to revived phosphorescence .
37 .
In the foregoing observations the coloration effects have , with one exception , been directly associated with the luminescent appearances ( paragraph 30 ) .
The one exception is valuable , however , because it draws attention to the fact that the intensity of the affinities of the dissociated ions , as well as their suitable insulation , is a necessary factor in the production of phosphorescence .
The lead silicate is easily electrolysed , and its ions are duly insulated as shown by the coloration ; but in their recombination the energy developed in this particular case was insufficient to develop visible light'waves .
38 .
In the haloid salts of potassium the conditions are entirely different , for the affinity of the haloid and the metallic ions is so intense that the insulating power of the molecules is only sufficient at ordinary temperatures to keep them apart for a very short time .
It appears probable that in these salts so much energy might be stored by the action of the rays at a low temperature as would result in a most brilliant luminescence on a return to the ordinary temperature .
39 .
Another feature brought out by the foregoing observations is the remarkable persistence of latent phosphorescence as shown by the indefinitely long time for which this storage of energy can take place under favourable conditions ( see paragraphs 26 and 29 ) .
40 .
In tracing the various steps in the action of the rays as disclosed by the intensity and colour of the phosphorescence and by the appearance and disappearance of coloration , the chemical or electrolytic hypothesis seems to explain each step in a satisfactory way and without any straining of the facts .
When the rays are first applied there may be a preliminary stage during which the luminescence is mainly of physical origin .
This is borne out by the undoubted influence of crystalline structure on primary phosphorescence and its relatively small influence on the later stages of luminescence .
But as electrolytic dissociation proceeds , a point is reached when the neutral molecules are no longer able to keep the increasing number of ions apart .
Recombination then sets in , and with it the production of a new kind of luminescence .
When once the insulating power of any given layer of the substance is saturated , the number of ions dissociated at each moment will be balanced by the recombination of a like number .
This is the probable explanation of the fact that the phosphorescence reaches a steady value after a certain time .
When this steady state has been reached for the whole depth to which the electrons can penetrate , the limit of storage of energy for the production of secondary and revived phosphorescence has been reached .
516 Mr , G. T. Beilby , Phosphorescence caused [ Feb. 9 , * 41 .
When the stimulus of the rays is removed , electrolytic dissociation will cease , but a certain number of ions continue to find their way to each other and to combine , producing secondary phosphorescence .
This state may last , only for a moment or it may continue for days ( paragraph 28 ) .
The insulating power of the molecules depends on their mobility , and this in turn depends on temperature .
For every rise in temperature a new equilibrium point must be established , and a further combination of ions with a fresh outburst of luminescence will occur .
At whatever stage a rise of temperature takes place , the effect must be the same , whether it be at the first stage while dissociation is active , at the second stage while recombination is taking place , or at the third stage when equilibrium at the lower temperature had been reached and luminescence had entirely ceased .
42 .
From this point of view it becomes possible to explain the comparatively conflicting observations on the behaviour of the same substance in the cathode rays or in the radium rays .
To take only one example of this ; In 1881* Sir W. Crookes stated that calcite showed the residual glow longer than any substance he had experimented with .
" After the current has been turned off the crystals shine in the dark with a yellow light for more than a minute .
" This short period of secondary phosphorescence as compared with the four days recorded in paragraph 28 becomes perfectly intelligible when the temperature is taken into account .
No mention of the actual temperature is made in Crookes ' observation , but it may fairly be assumed that the temperature of a substance exposed to a powerful cathode discharge would be very much raised .
Even a temperature of 100 ' would break down the insulation of the calcite molecules to such an extent that only a very brief secondary phosphorescence could occur .
43 .
The effects of low temperature in developing and increasing secondary phosphorescence , as shown by Crookes and Dewar , fall naturally in line with the dissociation hypothesis .
By the increased insulating power of the molecules at the lower temperature the capacity of a substance to store dissociated ions may be increased to an enormous extent , so that the break-down of insulation by a rapid return to the ordinary temperature will set free a great store of energy and produce an outburst of phosphorescence .
It is evident that substances which have too little insulating power at ordinary temperatures to enable them to produce secondary phosphorescence may at the lower temperatures develop this power to a high degree .
Even the much feebler stimulus of the light waves may thus be enabled to record dissociation effects which have altogether escaped notice at ordinary temperatures .
44 .
The conclusions drawn in the foregoing papers may be brief !
} summarised under the following divisions :\#151 ; * * Chem. News , ' 1881 , p. 237 .
1905 .
] the Beta and Gamma Rays of Radium .
517 1 .
Certain types of phosphorescence are due to the molecular movement or displacement which is produced by heat , by mechanically applied stresses , or by radiant energy .
2 .
Certain other types of phosphorescence are distinguished by their appearance in three stages , called here primary , secondary , and revived phosphorescence .
These can be explained as due to atomic changes in which chemical affinity is the controlling factor .
3 .
The phenomena of this type appear to support the view that a species of electrolysis occurs in solids exposed to the / ?
or cathode rays ; that the products of electrolytic dissociation are insulated or partly insulated from each other by the neutral molecules , as in a viscous electrolyte ; and that it is the breaking-down of this insulation and the recombination of the ions which causes revived phosphorescence .
[ Added February 22 , 1905.\#151 ; -The following experiments have been made at a temperature of about \#151 ; 100':\#151 ; 44 .
Calcspar crushed to powder , and exposed to the radium rays for an hour at this temperature , showed the usual primary and secondary phosphorescence .
On emptying the salt from the cold tube upon a metal plate at the ordinary temperature , the glow increased considerably as the temperature of the salt rose ; but this revived phosphorescence was not so vivid as that observed between 15 ' and 100 ' ( see paragraph 35 ) .
45 .
Potassium chloride exposed to the rays for an hour at \#151 ; 100 ' showed well-marked violet coloration .
The primary and secondary phosphorescence were brighter than at the ordinary temperature ( see paragraph 32 ) .
When the cooled salt was emptied on the .
metal plate it glowed with a brilliant pink phosphorescence , which died down in less than a minute .
On returning the salt to the cold tube , the phosphorescence completely ceased .
46 .
Potassium bromide treated in the same way was coloured greenish blue in one and a half hours .
It showed distinct primary , but no secondary , phosphorescence .
Emptied on the metal plate , it glowed with a brilliant greenish phosphorescence , which quickly died down , and entirely ceased when the salt was returned to the cold tube ( see paragraph 33 ) .
47 .
Barium platino-cyanide in yellow crystals exposed to the rays at \#151 ; 100 ' turned red more slowly than at the ordinary temperature .
After five hours ' exposure the primary phosphorescence had fallen to 33 per cent , of its former value .
There was still no secondary phosphorescence , but , when emptied on the metal plate , the salt glowed brilliantly for a few seconds .
To make sure that this revived phosphorescence was not due to the purely physical effect of cooling and heating , another portion of yellow crystals was cooled under identical conditions , except that the radium was absent .
The crystals VOL. LXXIV .
2 Q 518 Dr. C. Chree .
On t Determination [ Dec. 21 showed no phosphorescence of any kind even on the metal plate ( compare paragraphs 4 and 5 , Part I ) .
48 .
These observations at -100 ' confirm the view ( paragraph 38 ) that the effect of low temperature is to increase the insulating power of the molecules , and thereby to enable some substances to store chemical energy which are unable to do so at all at higher temperatures , e.g. , barium platino cyanide ; and to increase the storage capacity of other substances in which the secondary phosphorescence is very short-lived at higher temperatures , e.g. , potassium chloride and bromide .
In the case of calcspar , the insulating capacity at ordinary temperatures is already so excellent , as shown by the persistence of secondary phosphorescence , that there is comparatively little gain at the lower temperature .
49 .
If , as seems most probable , the coloration of solids by the ( B rays is due to the presence of ions , it is interesting to note that the different salts of potassium give perfectly distinct colours , the chloride being a red violet and the bromide and iodide a greenish blue .
This difference is most likely due to the modification of the colour of the potassium ions by the presence of the haloid ions , chlorine , bromine , or iodine .
] ' Note on the Determination of the Volume Elasticity of Elastic Solids."* By C. Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D " F.R.S. Received December 21 , 1904 , \#151 ; Read February 2 , 1905 .
In a recent paperf Mr. A. Mallock gives an ingenious and simple method of determining the coefficient of volume elasticity ( bulk modulus ) of metals by direct observation of the extension of a hollow right circular cylinder under uniform internal pressure .
The method depends on a result of the mathematical theory which seems capable of being proved in a more direct and complete way , but which at the same time requires to be restricted by conditions to which Mr. Mallock does not seem to refer .
Further , the method is only one of several which seem equally worthy of consideration .
When dealing with isotropic material I shall employ the following notation :\#151 ; E = Young 's modulus , g \#151 ; Poisson 's ratio , k EE \#163 ; E/ ( 1 - 2g ) = bulk modulus .
* [ The main results of the first part of this paper ( Case i ) were worked out as a verification before Mr. Mallock 's paper was printed ; they were considered to have been sufficiently indicated in a footnote appended to the paper.\#151 ; J. L. ] f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 50 .

