I. " On a new Method of Approxiination applicable to Elliptic and Ultra-elliptic Functions .
" By C. W. MERRIFIELD , Esq. Communricated by the Rev. HI .
MOSELEY , F.R.S. Received March 26 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) I found my method on the kinown principle , that the geomietric meani between two quanitities is also a geometric mean between the arithmetic and harmioniic means of those quantities .
We may therefore approximate to the geometric mean of two quantities in .
this way:-Take their arithmetic and harmionic means ; then take the aithmetic and harmoniic means of those mneans ; then of these last means again , and so on , as far as we please .
If the ratio of the original quantities lies within the ratio of 1 : 2 , the approximation proceeds with extraordiinary rapidity , so that , in obtaining a fraction nearly equal to v82 by this method , we obtain a result true to eleven places of decimals at the fourth mean .
I name this merely to show the rate of approxiination .
The real application of the method is to the integration of functions ernbracing a radical of the square root .
Suppose we wish to approximate to the integral of a function of the form X / Y. The fuinetion is a geometrical mean between X and XY .
If , therefore , we obtaini arithmetic and harmonic means to X and XY , and againi to these m-eans , and so on , it is clear that our fuLnction XVY will always lie between each pair of means of the series , the arithmetic mean being always in excess , and the harmonic always in defect .
I ixow observe , ( 1 ) That if the functions X and XY both increase or both decrease i egularly with the inidependent variable , the integral of their geometric mean will always be intermediate to their integrals , and also to each pair of the initegrals of the derived means .
( 2 ) That the derived series of arithmetic and harmonic means conitain lno radicals , and are therefore integrable by resolution into partial fractions , and that their integrals involve only logarithms or inverse tangents .
lie last remark indicates that the method has no useful applicationi to functionis of a simpler class than elliptic functions .
It applies , howevevr , to all elliptic and ultra-elliptic functions , and to transcendental functions unider a radical .
The radical must , however , not he higher than the square root ; for , although it be true that if we take the case of inserting two means between two quantities , the geometric will still lie between the arithmetic and harmonic means , we have nothing to show what the second step of approximation is to be .
The third arithmetic mean is , in the case of elliptic integrals , sufficienitly near for working with seven figures .
The resulting formula , in the case of the elliptic initegral of the third kind , is far fromri being sim)le ; but it is practicable , and it requires nonie but the ordinary trigonometric and logarithmic tables .
This complexity is in reality duie to the extremely complex character of the function itself , as is well known to every one conversant with its transformations .
My method becomes sufficiently simple when applied to complete elliptic fulictions of the first kinid .
My own opinion is that this method affords as easy an approximation as the nature of the elliptic and ultra elliptic iiltegrals , at least in their general form , admits , -that it is simpler than the uise of Jacobi 's ftunctions 0 or Y , and that except in isolated cases , there -is no aclvantaroe to be ( lerived f'romr the comi)ut.ation of tables of Such auxiliary funictionis , so f(hr as thie nere com.-nputatiol of elliptic funtlltiODS is concernted .

