II .
" Additional Observations and Experiments on the Influence of Physical Agents in the Development of the Tadpole and the Frog .
" By JOHN HIGGINBOTTOM , Esq. , F.R.S. Received Dec. 24 , 1861 .
In a former paper " On the Influence of Physical Agents on the development of the Tadpole of the Triton and the Frog , " which the Royal Society honoured with a place in the Philosophical Transactions for 1850 , experiments were detailed to prove that the ovum of the frog ( the Rana temporaria ) underwent its metamorphosis in the absence of light , contrary to the experiments of Dr. W. F. Edwards of Paris , related in his work 'On the Influence of Physical Agents on Life .
' My most satisfactory experiment was made in a rock cellar 30 feet deep , where no solar light ever entered ; the mean temperature of the cellar was 51 ?
Fahr. , -I believe , the lowest temperature at which the transformation could be effected .
The ova of the frog , just deposited , were placed in the cellar on the 11th of March , and on the 31st of October the first was fully developed in the form of a frog ; while other ova deposited on the same day , which were placed in a shady part of a room at 60 ?
Fahr. and covered with several folds of black calico , were fuilly developed on May 22nd , twenty-three weeks earlier than those in the cellar .
The experiment proved that the development of the frog depended upon the temperature , and not upon the presence of light .
I found by other experiments that those in the light , and those deprived of light , were equally developed if placed at the same temperature .
I observed that an excess of light retarded the development .
1 .
On the Influence of Light on the Ovumn My formerexperiments not being parallel with those of Dr. Edwards , I was desirous of following his steps .
Dr. Edwards says , in his work 53 above referred to , Part iv .
chapter 15 , 'On the -Ifluence of Light upon the Development of the Body , ' " This process , previous to birth , is generally carried on in the dark ; there are , however , animals whose impregnated eggs are hatched , notwithstanding their exposure to the rays of the sun .
Of this number are the Batrachians .
I wished to determine what influence light independent of heat might exert upon this kind of development .
With this view I placed some spawn of the frog in water in a vessel which was rendered impermeable to light by dark paper .
The other vessel was transparent ; they were exposed to the same degree of temperature , but the transparent vessel received the rays of the sun .
The eggs exposed to the light were developed in succession ; of those in the dark , none did well ; in some , however , I remarked unequivocal indications of the transformation of the embryo .
" Dr. Edwards does not mention the depth of water in the vessel in which he put the spawn of the frog , which he " rendered impermeable to light .
" If it were a few inches in depth , it would materially prevent the transformation of the embryo .
I commenced my experiment in a pool which had been the habitat of frogs ( the Rana temporaria ) for several years .
Experiment st.-I put a quantity of spawn , just deposited , into a box perforated with small holes , so as to admit a free current of water through it , and placed it about 3 feet below the surface of the water ; all the ova perished .
The next experiments were made in an aquarium 20 inches deep , containing seventeen gallons of water at 60 ?
Fahr. Experiment 2nd.-A quantity of spawn was put into the water , which fell to the bottom of the aquarium ; the spawn when first deposited by the frog , is specifically heavier than the water* .
The ova enlarged as usual , but did not arrive satisfactorily through the branchial state ; most of the ova appeared to undergo no change whatever .
Experiment 3rd.-Some spawn was placed 8 inches below the surface of the water ; but none of the ova passed through the branchial state .
Experiment 4th.-A quantity of spawn was placed on rock work near the surface of the water .
Nearly all the ova passed satisfactorily through the branchial state to the formation of tadpoles ; each of the experiments was made at the same time and at the same temperature .
Experiment 5th.-A quantity of spawn was put into two round shallow dishes , each containing two pints of water , which were placed on the stand of the aquarium at the same time as in the former experiments ; nearly all did well ; and during the full branchial or fish-like state , great numbers of the embryos had placed themselves close to the margin of the water , forming a dark circle , with their branchiae nearly exposed to the atmospheric air .
They do not appear to feed during this period on the jelly their first food ; atmospheric respiration seems more needful than food for their existence for several days during their full branchial state* .
There are two distinct metamorphoses from the ovum to the full development of the frog : the first from the branchial or fish-like state to that of the tadpole ; the second from the tadpole to that of a frog , the first requiring for its existence a close approximation to the atmospheric air , the second requiring full atmospheric respiration , to which I shall hereafter refer .
The branchial state continues about nine days , from the first buddings of the branchibe to their absorption .
About the seventh day the branchiae are absorbed on the right side , indeed so quickly that I have observed that scores have lost them during one night , whilst the branchiae on the left side have apparently been perfect ; but these in their turn become absorbed during the next day ; the respiration of this newly formed tadpole now depends on the internal gills and cutaneous surface .
The gill-opening for the passage of water is very apparent on the left side , but there is none on the right .
2 .
On the Influence of Light on the Tadpole .
The experiments of Dr. Edwards indicate that a decided influence is exerted by light upon the metamorphosis of Batrachians , since , according to his statement , when tadpoles which had arrived at nearly their full growth were secluded from the influence of light , but supported with aerated water and food , they attained an extraordinary size , without undergoing any metamorphosis .
The following is Dr. Edwards 's experiment:- " I procured a tin box , divided into twelve compartments , each of which was numbered and pierced with holes so that the water might readily pass through the box , A tadpole ( which had been previously weighed ) was put into each compartment , and the box was then placed in the River Seine , some feet below the surface .
A large number were at the same time put into an earthen-ware vessel , containing about four gallons of Seine water , which was changed every day ; these tadpoles were at liberty to rise to the surface and respire air , and they soon went through their metamorphosis .
Of the twelve placed in the box under water , ten preserved their form without any progress in their transformation , although some had doubled or trebled their weight .
It should be observed that at the time when the experiment was begun , the tadpoles had attained the size at which the change is about to take place .
Two only were transformed , and these very much later than those which , in the earthen vessel , had the liberty of respiration in air .
" Dr. Edwards concludes that the presence of solar light favours the development of form .
The situation in which Dr. Edwards placed the tadpoles , " some feet below the surface of the river " in his experiment , would inevitably prove unsuccessful in the full development of the frog .
I have always found the transformation , both of the triton and of the frog , equal in the same temperature , both in the light and in the absence of light , if placed in shallow water ; but during their metamorphosis they must be allowed to rise to the surface of the water to obtain air , or they become asphyxiated .
I therefore placed stones in the vessel , and allowed them to leave the water for the purpose of atmospheric respiration .
The metamorphosis of the tadpole , when at its full growth , requires about fourteen days to bring it to the condition of a frog .
About the termination of that period , the diminution of the body is so great , and also the absorption of the expanded caudal extremity is such , as to diminish cutaneous respiration .
Respiration by the lungs becomes absolutely necessary to prevent the animal from becoming asphyxiated , which would be the case if it remained in the water-requiring then not an aquatic , but an atmospheric medium of respiration .
It may be observed that after the tail is partially absorbed , leaving only a portion of the solid part , the asphyxiated state has commenced : the little animal , with open mouth , gasps for breath ; but if removed into atmospheric air , the mouth is directly closed , and respiration is effected through the nostrils with perfect freedom ; the animal is restored directly , jumps about and is lively .
3 .
On the Influence of the absence of Light on the Tadpole and on the Frog .
This time I commenced my experiments in three rock cellars , formerly only in one .
The cellars in Nottingham , cut out of solid rock , are most favourable for experiment ; no solar light ever enters , and they are not subject to any great change of temperature .
The deepest cellar is 30 feet deep , the mean temperature 51 ?
Fahr. ; the middle cellar is 18 feet deep , its mean temperature 53 ?
Fahr. ; the uppermost cellar 9 feet deep , mean temperature 56 ?
Fahr. June 11th .
In each cellar I placed a shallow glazed earthenware vessel , containing two pints of water , with grass for chlorophyll for food , changing the water every second day .
In each vessel I put twenty tadpoles , approaching the period of their metamorphosis , following the example of Dr. Edwards , -a much easier method than commencing with the spawn .
In the uppermost cellar ten were fully developed in the form of a frog on the 8th of September , and were on the stones , having left the water .
In the middle cellar ten were fully developed on the 22nd of September .
In the lowest cellar eight only had left the water , being fully developed on the 20th of October .
In the following year , July 1st , I made a similar experiment in the same cellars , three weeks later .
The tadpoles were of a large size .
I obtained the same result , the full development of the frog in the absence of light ; but in this experiment I had another object in view , that of observing the growth and obtaining the exact weight of the tadpoles before , during , and after their metamorphosis into a frog .
Dr. Edwards said that in his experiment " the tadpoles attained an extraordinary size , doubling or trebling their usual full weight ; " but he unfortunately does not mention any particular weight , or how long the tadpoles were preserved alive ; in fact there is nothing definite .
During my several years of experiments I did not observe any remarkable increase of weight or size as mentioned by Dr. Edwards , although my first experiment was from the ovum to the full development of the frog , and the two last when the tadpoles were approaching the period of their development .
In my first experiment on the ovum , I never obtained a tadpole more than 8 grains in weight in the absence of light ; but I found in a pool in the neighbourhood a number of tadpoles , some between 11 and 15 grains in weight ; seven of them weighed 15 grains each .
Of these large tadpoles I took twenty for my experiment , weighing altogether 264 grains , and averaging about 13 grains each .
After their transformation the frogs weighed 93 grains , averaging about 4grains each , -those of 15 grains in the tadpole state only weighing 5 grains as frogs , having lost two-thirds of their weight during their metamorphosis .
Subsequent experiments have been in accordance with the above .

