Fracture of Metals under repeated .
Alternations of Stress .
79 " The Fracture of Metals under repeated Alternations of Stress .
" By J. A. Ewing , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Mechanism and Applied Mechanics in the University of Cambridge , and J. C. W. Humfrey , B.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge , 1851 Exhibition Research Scholar , University College , Liverpool .
Received August 11 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The paper describes an investigation by means of the microscope of the process by which iron becomes " fatigued " and breaks down when subjected to repeated reversals of stress , as in Wohler 's experiments .
It is shown that although the greatest stress is much within the limit of elasticity ( as determined by the proportionality of strain to stress in an ordinary tensile test ) , it produces rupture after many reversals .
The first visible effect is the production of slip-bands here and there on individual crystals .
These gradually become more numerous : they also become accentuated and broadened and their edges turn rough and burred , apparently as a result of grinding of one surface on the other over the plane in which slip has occurred .
At a later stage certain of the slip-bands develop into cracks , whose existence can be demonstrated by repolishing the specimen , when the slip bands which have not opened into cracks are obliterated , but the cracks remain visible as actual fissures .
As the process of reversals goes on , the cracks spread from crystal to crystal , and fracture ensues .
In the particular material dealt with , Swedish iron , having an elastic limit in tension of about 13 tons per square inch and a breaking strength of 23-6 tons per square inch , it was found that a stress not exceeding 9 tons per square inch , when reversed some millions of times , was sufficient to develop cracks and to bring about the fracture of the piece .
Stresses of 8 and even 7 tons per square inch were found to develop slip bands which would probably turn into cracks under a sufficient number of reversals .
The paper is illustrated by microphotographs taken at various stages of the destructive process .

