]\gt ; 176 Mr. T. K. Chinmayanandam .
5 .
Saturated vapours , even when very dense , show no increase of scattering power beyond what the density would lead one to expect .
If molecular ates are formed , they are not numerous enough to show by this method .
6 .
Liquid ether apparently scatters about seven times less light than a corresponding mass of ether vapour .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 2 .
1 .
Photographs of the two polarisations in ether vapour .
Upper image has vibration vertical , lower horizontal .
Screens over the upper image of opacity increasing from left to right .
Equality at No. 5 .
2 .
Similar photographs for nitrous oxide , using same opaque screens .
Equality falls between Nos. 1 and 2 .
3 .
Ether vapour .
Nos. 1 and 5 at low pressure ; 2 , 3 , and 4 at saturation pressure , but with successively reduced lens aperture ( see p. 172 ) .
Note that No. 3 approximately equals Nos. 1 and 6 .
On 's Rings in Mica .
By T. K. HINMAYANANDAlI , .
( Hons .
) .
( Communicated by Dr. Gilberb T. Walker , C.S.I. , D.So .
, F.R.S. Received July 10 , 1918 .
) 1 .
Introduction .
The interference rings observed between plane parallel surfaces under diffuse monochromatic illumination have recently acquired much importance , in view of their practical application in the construction of spectroscopes of high resolving power .
These rings were first observed by Haidinger in mica .
This circumstance and the fact that mica is readily available , and by its natural furnishes plates with absolutely parallel faces , make the study of the rings in that substance one of considerable interest .
In a paper published in the ' Philosophical ' for November , 1906 , Lord Rayleigh described some interesting features of the rings observed in natural light .
Mica being a doubly refracting substance , there are in fact two systems of rings superposed upon each other , being each due to one of the beams polarised in planes at right angles to each other .
It may be expected , therefore , that there must be regions of maximum and minimum visibility in the field of view .
This is exactly what happens , and Lord Rayleigh has noted that in a plate of mica Mr. T. K. Chinmayanandam .
was therefore desirable to devise some simple means of observing and photographing the reflected system of rings .
Reflected of Bings.\mdash ; The chief difficulty in the observation of this system is that the head of the observer screens the off from the mica plate , so that the centre of the system never comes into the field of view .
The usual way of getting over this difficulty is to use a plate of glass at an inclination of to the surface of the tnica , and to have the source of light on one side .
This arrangement is , however , not quite suitable for the present purpose , for the eye , or the camera lens in case a photograph is to be taken , cannot be brought quite close to the mica plate , and has to be kept at a distance .
The result is not only that the field of view becomes correspondingly limited , but also that , a larger area of the crystal being used , the smallest defect or , or want of flatness in the mica , results in the rings becoming distorted or ular .
There is also a loss of light in reflection at the plate .
To get over these difficulties , the following simple arrangement has been used in the present investigation , to observe and photograph the reflected rings .
A white sheet of cardboard is taken , and a small hole bored in it in the centre .
This is mounted vertically on a stand , and the mica plate is fixed immediately in front of it , with its face parallel to the cardboard .
The side of the cardboard facing the mica is lighted by one or more Cooper-Hewitt lamps , and the rings are viewed from the other side through the hole in the cardboard against a dark background .
The reflected rings can be seen in this way very easily and clearly .
To prevent extraneous scattered light from entering the eye or the camera lens , the of the hole and the back of the cardboard may be blackened .
For visual observation , a green ray filter Inay be fixed behind the cardboard , though the effects described in this paper are , indeed , seen very well without it .
For photographing the rings the green light is not very suitabie , but a cell containing a solution of sulphate of quinine may be used with great advantage .
The function of this cell is to cut off the ultra-violet rays and the two lines at 4047 and 4078 .
without in any way affecting the bright violet line at 4358 , and thus to secure the homogeneity of the violet light .
The green and the yellow rays are , indeed , transmitted freely by the cell , but they do not affect the photographic plate appreciably .
The cell may be fixed behind the camera lens .
Process plates , with an exposure of 10-15 minutes , give very satisfactory pictures , one of which is reproduced in fig. 1 .
Some of the experimental results obtained with mica may now be described .
A number of plates of muscovite mica of different thicknesses were examined .
The dimensions of the rings vary , of course , with the On 's Rings in Mica .
the photograph reproduced in the figure will show that the rings appear doubled where a line of minimum visibility meets them at a small S angle , as is the case near the vertices of the hyperbolas , but where it cuts across them nearly at right angles , we find the bright bands on one side running into and meeting the dark bands on the other side , producing a 1 pretty system of dislocated rings .
It can easily be verified that these phenomena are due to the superposition of two independent sets of rings , by looking at the ring system through a nicol .
As the latter is rotated , the lines of minimum visibility disappear absolutely in four positions of the nicol at right angles to one another .
3 .
The fact that in mica the acute bisectrix of the angle between the optic axes is very nearly normal to the plane of cleavage simplifies the theory considerably .
The rings observed by the light reflected from the crystal are , of course , due to the interference of the reflected from the first surface of the crystal with those that enter the plate and , after undergoing one or more internal reflections at the second surface , emerge from the first surface in a direction parallel to the former .
Now since any ray incident on the crystal is generally split up into two rays polarised in and perpendicular respectively to the principal plane , and travelling in slightly different directions with different velocities , there will be two rays , polarised in planes perpendicular to each other , in any given direction from the first surface after one internal reflection .
Suppose are the respective path differences in the two cases between the directly reflected and the internally reflected rays .
Then the dark rings of the two sets are given respectively by where are integers .
A point of minimum visibility will correspond to the condition that , and , where is an integer .
A line of minimum visibility evidently satisfies the condition that , at every point on it , the respective orders of the rings of the two sets have a constant difference equal to , i.e. , the condition that the relative path difference of the two rays polarised in perpendicular planes and emerging in the same direction is constant over all points on the line .
The problem of determining the form of such a line , therefore , reduces to finding corresponding to different directions .
For an isotropic medium , the path difference between the interfering rays is simply 2 , where is the refractive index and the thickness of the plate , and is the angle of refraction .
Since , in mica , the normal to the plate is practically the bisectrix of Mr. T. K. Chinmayanandam .
the angle between the optic axes , the velocities of each of the two rays into which the incident ray is split up is , by symmetry , the same before and after internal reflection at the rear surface of the plate , and we may to a sufficient degree of approximation write where 10 is the velocity in air , and and are the velocities of the refracted waves in the crystal .
Thus we have Even without .
this expression in terms of the angle of emergence of the rays , it is seen that it is identical with the well-known formula giving the form of the isochromatic lines in convergent polarised light for a plate of thickness Since mica is biaxial , the optic figure should resemble a series of Cassini 's ovals and leminiscates .
The angle between the optic axes in muscovite is , however , fairly , and in the centre of the field the isochromatic lines look very much like hyperbolas .
The between the form of the lines of minimum visibility and of the isochromatic lines in convergent polarised pointed out here is verified by an examination of the rings in phlogopite .
In this variety of mica the optic axes are not widely separated , and the lines of minimum visibility in Haidinger 's rings are found to be closed curves of the form of Cassini 's ovals , exactly as indicated theory .
It is interesting to consider the actual form of the , and see exactly how the two systems of rings give rise to the observed lines of minimum visibility .
For simplicity , the difference between the wave velocities and the ray velocities may be assumed to be negligible .
Let be the azimuth and the augle of incidence of any ray on the plate , and similar co-ordinates for the corresponding refracted wavenormals .
Also let be the velocities of the two waves in air and in the crystal respectively .
Then ( 1 ) and .
( 2 ) * See Drude 's ' Optics , ' English translation by Millikan , p. 350 .
This between the lines of minimum visibility and the isochromatic lines in polarised light is not applicable to all crystals cut in any manner , but only to those which cleave or which are cut perpendicular to one of the axes of optic symmetry in the crystal .
On Haidinger 's Rings in JIica .
The wave-velocities in the direction , are iven by the equation ( c7 ) the solution of which is ( 4 ) where , and ; and siu2 ( 5 ) Casc lrhere the Angle between the Optic is \mdash ; In this case , if be small , we can neglect the fourth and powers of and ( 5 ) reduces to .
( 6 ) From ( 4 ) and ( 6 ) we get for and orand similarly .
( 7 ) But from ( 2 ) , and so that on eliminatin we fro1n ( 7 ) .
( 81 and If now , be the path differences between the rays reflected at the first surface and the rays that emerge from the same surface after refraction and one internal reflection , Similarly From ( 8 ) Hence ( 9 ) and similarly ( 10 ) Mr. T. K. Chinmayanandam .
The forms of the two sets of Haidinger 's rings observed in the crystal are thus determined respectively by const .
( 11 ) and const .
, ( 12 ) or , in Cartesian co-ordinates , by const .
and const .
Both sets of rings are hence , to the first order of approximation , ellipses .
The lines of minimum visibility are given by const .
, or - const .
, or , approximately , const .
which in Cartesian co-ordinates becomes const .
, ( 13 ) representing a series of hyperbolas , whose asymptotes make an angle with each other , where Since and are nearly equal in mica , the asymptotes are practically at right angles .
This is not , however , exactly what is observed in the photograph , nor are the curves strictly hyperbolas .
The deviation must be ascribed to the fact that the fourth power of in equation ( 5 ) is not entirely negligible .
Case where the Angle between the Optic Axes is Smalt.\mdash ; This is the case with the phlogopite variety of mica , which is practically uniaxial .
In this case , becomes so smali that in equation ( 5 ) the term becomes less important than that , so that the approximation made in the previous case would no longer be valid .
We can , however , write equation ( 5 ) in the approximate form , ( 14 ) which has been obtained by writing ) in equation ( 5 ) .
On 's Rings in Proceeding exactly as in the previous section , the form of the rings is found to be given by the equations that is , or , since is small compared with const .
( 15 ) If we neglect the squares of in ( 14 ) , we have so , that equation ( 15 ) becomes on being transformed to Cartesian co-ordinates , const .
reduces to const .
, ( 1b ) where denotes the focal length of the lens when the rings are photo .
When vanishes absolutely , i.e. , in the case of a uniaxial crystal cut perpendicular to its optic axis , , and hence equation represents two sets of circles of slightly different radii .
In the general case , the equation represents two series of curves of the fourth degree .
The lines of minimum visibility are given approximately by const .
, ( 17 ) which becomes , on squaring and reducing , const .
, ( 18 ) where squares of have been neglected .
In Cartesian co-ordinates equation ( 18 ) may be written , if const .
or const .
( 19 ) Mr. T. K. Chinmayanandam .
This is of the form const , which is the equation of an oval , similar to that of Cassini .
4 .
Numerical Results .
If we confine ourselves to the plane containing the optic axes and the : plane perpendicular to it , the positions of successive rings can be easily worked out directly without any approximations .
Also , the observation of the ) number of rings between the intersections of the two successive lines of minimum visibility with those planes enables us to calculate with very fair accuracy the ratios of the principal refractive indices , if we only know roughly the mean refractive index of the specimen and the angle between the optic axes .
Consider first the plane containing the optic axes .
The section of the wave surface by that plane is a circle of radius and an ellipse whose axes are and .
Bays incident in this plane are refracted and reflected , and finally emerge in the same plane ; and if be the path difference for a ray emerging at an angle , we have , for the refracted ray corresponding to the circular section , , ( 20 ) or .
( 21 ) Corresponding to the elliptic section , we have : ( 22 ) It can easily 1oe shown also that .
( 23 ) Eliminatin from ( 22 ) and ( 33 ) , we .
( 24 ) Also , ( 25 ) which after reduction becomes .
( 26 ) It may be noted that equations ( 21 ) and ( 26 ) are identical with the general equations ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) when ) .
For the plane at right angles to that containing the optic axes , it can be similarly shown that and respectively .
On Haidinger 's Rings in We proceed to show how these simple formulae can be made use of to 1 determine the ratios of the principal refractive indices of mica .
Suppose the first line of minimum visibility intersects the plane at a point which corresponds to order of one set and order ) of the other .
1 Let the next line of minimum visibility lie on orders and respectively of the two sets of rings .
Then , so that or since , in a fairly thick plate , is small compared with or .
( 27 ) Similarly for the plane perpendicular to that containing the optic axes we get .
( 28 ) In equations ( 27 ) and ( 28 ) , the quantities are known , being simply counted off on the ground glass plate of the camera or the photographic negative ; , and , are all of the order , where is the mean refractive index of the mica , its thickness , and the wave-length of the incident light .
In the actual specimen used , was about cm .
, and cm .
, so that , etc. , were of the order 1050 .
The differences , being very small compared with , it is sufficient for our purpose to know the absolute values of the latter roughly , provided the differences and , which are small and integral , are known accurately .
Now , in the direction in the plane which corresponds to that of the single ray velocity in the crystal , the respective orders of the two sets of rings are the same .
Further , the difference between the respective orders of the rings will increase by unity each time as we pass successive lines of minimum visibility .
Thus if be the number of lines of minimum visibility between the directions and , we have and If the field of view covers the direction can be directly counted offf Otherwise , we can calculate the same loy a simple method .
It can easily be shown that the number of rings between successive lines of minimum Mr. T. K. Chinmayanandam .
visibility is nearly the same , so that if we know the number of rings lying between the first and the last of those lines in the region , we have is determined by the equation where is the number of rings from the centre up to the first line of minimum visibility .
It is sufficient if we use the mean value for and an approximate value for .
In the specimen used by the writer , the angle between the optic axes was about , so that nearly .
The values of the other quantities are as follows:\mdash ; , can now be calculated from equations ( 27 ) and ( 28 ) .
The refractive indices were also measured with a refractometer , and the calculated and observed values of their ratios are given below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Observed .
Calculated .
5 .
Summary and Conclusion .
This paper is an attempt at a fuller study of Haidinger 's rings in mica , some special features of which due to double refraction were described by Lord Rayleigh in a paper in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for November , 1906 .
The principal results obtained here are as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The regions of minimum visibility in the field , due to the superposition of two independent sets of rings , lie along a series of curves which , in muscovite , are approximately hyperbolas .
Lord Rayleigh 's observation that the lines of minimum visibility crosses traversing the centre of the field is true only for particular thicknesses , and , even then , is not a complete description of the phenomena , as two series of hyperbolas are seen in addition to the cross .
In phlogopite , the rings are indistinct along closed curves of oval shape .
( 2 ) The usual method of observing reflected systems of rings , a plate of glass inclined at to the plate under observation , is not satistactory for the observation of Haidinger 's rings in mica .
The effects of a want of flatness , or other defect , in the mica plate , were considerably minimised in a new method devised in the present ation for observing and photographing the On Haidinger 's Rings in Mica .
* reflected system of rings .
A diffusing screen is placed close to the mica with its surface parallel to it , and the rings are observed through a hole in the : centre of the former .
( 3 ) In mica , as in all other crystals which cleave or which are cut perpendicular to one of the axes of optic symmetry , theoretical considerations indicate that the lines of minimum visibility in Haidinger 's rings should be practically the same as the isochromatic lines observed in a plate of twice the thickness in convergent polarised light .
This conclusion is in agreement with the observations described above .
( 4 ) In such crystals , if the angle between the optic axes is also large , the rings are shown to be approximately two sets of ellipses , given respectively by the equations const .
const .
, where are the principal velocities in the crystal .
The major axes of one set are in the same direction as the minor axes of the other .
These results are not far from the truth in the case of muscovite .
( 5 ) The ratios of the principal refractive indices in mica can be found with fair accuracy by observing the number of rings lyin between successive lines of minimum visibility in the plane containing the optic axes and in a perpendicular plane .
The investigation was carried out in the Physical Laboratory of the Indian i Association for the Cultivation of Science , Calcutta , and the writer 's best thanks are due to Prof. C. .
Raman , who gested the ation and took much interest in its ress .
He has also much pleasure in the kindness of Dr. H. H. Hayden , F.R.S. , who put some specimens of opite mica at the author 's disposal , and of Dr. G. T. Walker , F.R.S. , whose interest in the work and encouragement have been of the greatest value to the author of this paper .

