1888 .
] Effect of Chlorine on a Voltaic Couple , 151 and Melbourne , coincides with the evening maximum of the barometer .
A similar coincident minimum , even more strongly marked , characterises the diurnal variation of the rainfall at Calcutta and Batavia in their respective rainy seasons .
In the author 's opinion these facts seem to point to a compression and dynamic heating of the cloudforming strata , and he points to the existence of a small irregularity in the diurnal temperature curves of Prague , Calcutta , and Batavia , which may possibly be due to such action .
It is further remarked that the evening maximum about coincides with the time when the evening fall of temperature , after a rapid reduction between 6 or 7 and 10 p.m. , becomes nearly uniform in rate , and it is suggested that the former may possibly be determined by the check of the rate of collapse of the cooling atmosphere .
But it is observed that both the morning and evening waves of pressure probably involve other elements than the forced waves , and are in part rhythmic repetitions of previous waves .
III .
" Effect of Chlorine on the Electromotive Force of a Voltaic Couple .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1888 .
If the electromotive force of a small voltaic couple of unamalgamated magnesium and platinum in distilled water , is balanced through the coil of a moderately sensitive galvanometer of about 100 ohms resistance , by means of that of a small Daniell 's cell plus that of a sufficient number of couples of iron and German silver of a suitable thermoelectric pile ( see ' Proceedings of the Birmingham Philosophical Society , ' vol. 4 , p. 130 ) , the degree of potential being noted ; and sufficiently minute quantities of very dilute chlorine-water are then added in succession to the distilled water , the degree of electromotive force of the couple is not affected until a certain definite proportion of chlorine has been added ; the potential then suddenly commences to increase , and continues to do so with each further addition within a certain limit .
Instead of making the experiment by adding chlorine-water , it may be made by gradually diluting a very weak aqueous solution of chlorine .
The minimuin proportion of chlorine necessary to cause this sudden change of .
electromotive force is extremely small ; in my experiments it has been 1 part in 17,000 million parts of water , * or less than a 7000th part of that required to yield a barely perceptible opacity in ten times the bulk of a solution of sal-ammoniac by means of nitrate of silver .
The quantity of liquid necessary for acting upon the couple * As 1 part of eMorine in 17,612 million parts of water had no visible effect , and 1 in 17,000 millions had a distinct effect , the influence of the difference , or of 1 part in 500,000 millions , has been detected .
Mr. T. Andrews .
[ May 3 , is small , and it would be easy to detect the effect of the above proportion , or of less than one ten-thousand-millionth of a grain of chlorine in one-tenth of a cubic centimetre of distilled water by this process .
The same kind of action occurs with other electrolytes , but requires larger proportions of dissolved substance .
As the degree of sensitiveness of the method appears extreme , I add the following remarks The original solution of washed chlorine in distilled water was prepared in a dark place by the usual method from hydrochloric acid and manganic oxide , and was kept in an opaque , well-stoppered bottle in the dark .
The strength of this liquid was found by means of volumetric analysis with a standard solution of argentic nitrate in the usual manner , the accuracy of the silver solution being proved by means of a known weight of pure chloride of sodium .
The chlorine liquid contained 2 3 milligrammes , or 0-03565 grain of chlorine per cubic centimetre , and was just about three-fourths saturated .
One-tenth of a cubic centimetre of this solution ( " No. 1 " ) , or 0-003565 grain of chlorine was added to 9'9 c.c. of distilled water and mixed .
One cubic centimetre of this second liquid ( " No. 2 " ) , or 0-0003565 grain of chlorine was added to 99 c.c. of water and mixed ; the resulting liquid ( " No. 3 " ) contained 0-000003565 grain of chlorine per cubic centimetre .
To make the solution ( " No. 4 " ) for exciting the voltaic couple , successive portions of one-tenth or one-twentieth cubic centimetre of " No. 3 " liquid were added to 900 c.c. of distilled water and mixed .
I have employed the foregoing method for examining the states and degrees of combination of substances dissolved in electrolytes , and am also investigating its various relations .
IY .
" Electro-chemical Effects on Magnetising Iron .
Part II."* By Thomas Andrews , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor Gl .
G. Stokes , P.R.S. Received April 9 , 1888 .
The novel electro-chemical effects observed between a magnetised and an unmagnetised bar when in circuit in certain solutions , recorded in the first part of this research , were of such an interesting character that I thought it desirable to extend the investigation .
The present memoir contains the results of a further study of these magnetochemical phenomena , which were found to be more marked and characteristic when experimenting with some of the reagents herein described .
The method of experimentation was generally similar to that pursued and described in Part I , though it was necessary to * For first part see vol. 42 , p. 459 .

