]\gt ; 1888 .
] Bending and I ration of .
elastic 105 De Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the C The Presents received were on the table , and hallks do ] .
them .
The following Papers were read : \mdash ; I. ' Spectrum An lysis of Cadnium By A. Professor of lIathematics in the PolyUniversity at Pra .
Communicated by ofessc ) .
Received November , 1888 .
[ Publication rred .
] II .
" " On the Bendiug and Vibl.ation of thin elastic Shells , espcof Form By LORD ec .
R.S. Received December 1 , 1888 .
fn a former publicatio ' ' On the Infinitesimal Bending of Sir { aces of Revolntion I applied the theol.y of bending to the tion and vibration of elastic sbells , are metrical about an axis , and have out detail the the shell is a portion of a sphere .
The validity of this cation epends entirely the ciple that en the sbell is enough is in one of the graver possil ) modes , the middle surface bebaves as if it were ensible .
" " Wlleu a thin sheet of matter is subjected to , the force it ) to extension is in comparison with that it opposes to ing .
Under ordinary circumstances , the deform tion takes place tely a if the sbeet were inextensible as whole , a condition , in a rc.markable degree , facilitates c.alculation , ) ( it need scarcely be ) even ling implies an extension of all but the central layers If we fix our attention upon one of the terms involving sines or cosines of multiples of the longitude , iuto which , cording to 's theorem , the whole tion be reholved , the condition of inextensibility is almost to define the type .
If there are two edges , ) al.allel to circles of IatiLord eigh .
On the tude , solution contains two arbitraly constants ; but if a pole be included , as when the shell is in the form of a hemisphere , one of the tants vanishes , and the type of deformation is wholly ined , without regat.d to any other mechanical condition , to be satisfied at the edge or elsewhere .
It will be convenient to restate , analytically , the type of deformation arrived at .
If the point the middle , urface , whose coordinates were originally to , the soIution is \mdash ; ( 1 ) , being the colatitude measured from the pole through which the shell is complete .
Any integral value higher than is admissible for .
The value and 1 correspond to displacements not involving strain .
a paper* .
Love dissents from the general principle involved in the theory above briefly sketched , and rejects the special solutious founded upon it as inapplicable to the vibration of hin shells .
argument upon which I proceeded in my former paper , and which still seems to me valid , may be put thus : It is a general mechanical principle that , if given displacements ( not sufficient by themselves to determine the configuration ) be produced in a system originally in equilibrium by forces of corresponding types , the resulting deformation is determined by the condition that the potential energy of deformation shall be as small as possible .
Apply this to an elastic shell , the given displacements bein such as not themselves to involve a stretching of the middle surface .
resulting deformation will , in geueral , include both and bending , and any expression for the energy will contain corresponding terms pr.oporfional to the first and third powers respectively of the thickness .
This is to be as small as possible .
Hence , when the thickness is diminished hout limit , the actual displacement will be one pnre bending , if such there be , consistent with the given conditions .
herwise the energy would be of the first order ( in thickness ) instead of , as it might be , of the order , in violation of the principle .
It will be seen that this argument takes no account of special conditions to be satisfied at the edge of the shell .
is the point ab which Mr. Love concentrates his objectionls .
He considers that * ' ' On the omall free Vibrations and Deformation of a thin elastic Shell ' Phil. , 1888 .
'Phil .
Mag March , 1875 ; 'Theory of Sound , ' S 74 .
are cases where no displacement ( involving strain at all ) is itllout stretching of the middle , e.g. , that of the complete sphere .
Bending and ibration of thin Elastic Shells .
107 the general condition necessary to be satisfied at a free edge is in fact violated by such a deformation as ( 1 ) .
But the condition 111 questioncontains terms proportional to the first and to the powers respectively of the thickness , the coefficients of the formel involving as factors the extensions and shear of the middle surface .
It appears to me that when the thickness is ished without limit , the fulfilment of the boundary condition requres only that the surface be unstretched , precisely the requiremeut satisfied by solutions such as ( 1 ) .
Of course , so long as the thickness is , the forces in operation will entail some stretching of the middle surface , and the amount of this stretching will depend on ctlmstances .
A good example is afforded by a circular cylinder with plane edges perpeudicular to the axis .
Let normal forces locally applied at the extl.emities of one diameter of the central section cause a given shortening of that diameter .
the potential enel.gy may be a minimum , the deformation must assume more and more the character of mere beuding as the thickness is reduced .
The only kind of bending that can occur in this case is the purely cylindrical one in which every normal section is ilarly deformed , and the potential energy is ) tional to the total length of thu .
We see , thel.eforc , that if the cylinder be very long , the energ.y of bending copding to the given local contraction of the central may becolne great , and a heavy strain throWll upon the principle that the deformation of imum energ is one of pule bending .
If the small thickness of the shell be regarded as givell , a point will at last be attained when the ellergy can be made least a sensible local stretching of middle sul.face such as will dispense with the iform bending otherwise necessary over so great a But even in this extreme case it seems correct to sHy that , when the thickness is sufficiently reduced , the deformation tends to become one of pure bending .
At first sight it may appear strange that of two telms in an expression of the potential energy , the one ] ) ortional to the cube of the is to be retained , that proportional to the firt , may be omitted .
The fact , however , is the large potential ener .
which would accompany auy stretching of the middle SUl.face the very reason why such stretching will not occur .
compalative of the ooefficient ( proportional to the first power of is more than neutralised by the smallness of the itself , to the of whioh the is proportional .
In , if be the measuring violation of the is supposed to be more and more insisted upon by increasing * See his equation ( 38 ) .
Lord ayleigh .
On the stiffness , and if the other coordinates be suitably chosen , the enel.gy of the system may be expressed . . . . . .
This follows from the general theorem that and may be reduced to sums of squares simply , if wo suppose that The equations of equilibrium under the aotion of forces , . .
are thus ; hence if the forces are arded as given , the eifect of increasing without limit is not lllerely to annul , but also the term iu which depends upon it .
An exat1lple might be taken from case of a rod clamped at one end , and deflected by a lateral force , stiffness from the end A up to a neighbouring place , is conceived to increase indefinitely .
In the limit we may regard the as clamped at , and neglect the energy of the part AB , in spite of , or rather in consequence of , its infinite stiffness .
If it be admitted that the deformations to be considered are purse bendings , the next step is the calculatio]l of the potential corresponding thereto .
In my former paper , the only case for which this part of the problem was attempted wafi that of the fter bending , " " the principal curvatures differ from the curvatllre of the sphere in opposite directions , and to an equal amonnt , * and the potential energy of bending to any element of the surface is proportional to the square of excess or defect of curvabure , without to the direction of the principal planes Though he agrees with my conclusions , Mr. Love appears to regaled the argument as insufficiexlt .
But clearly in the case of a iven spherical shell , there are no other elements upon which the energ ) ' of .
could depend .
" " Thus the esponding to the element of snrface may be denoted by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) , where depends upon the material and upon the thickness By the nature of the case is proportional to the elastic constantS and the cube of the thickness , from which it follows by the method of dimensions that it is independent of , the radius of the sphere .
*This is in virtue of Gauss 's theorem t of principal nrva is uuaffected by bencling .
1888 .
] and bration of thin Elastic Shells .
I did not , at the time , attempt the further } ermination of , not it for my immediate purpose .
Mr. Love has that . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) , where repre the thickness , and the constant of rigidiy .
Why alone should occur , to the exclusion of the constant of pressibility , will more The application of ( 2 ) to the displacenlents expressed in ( 1 ) [ equation ( 18 ) ] . . . . . . . .
( 4 ) , the colatifude of the ular ) .
In the case of of uniform tbickness .
The tion of tlJe pitch of fres ation then presented no difficulty .
If denote superficial density , and pt represent he type of vibration , corresponding to , and so , it appeared that ; so that the between he graver nofer .
If the form of the shell be other bhan , the middle is no longer with respect to the normal at any point , the expression of the potential energy is more complicated .
Tl question is now not merely one of the ature of the surface ; account must also be taken of the correspondence of ) sections before and after deformation .
* A co11lplcte bas been given by Love ; but the treatment of the question now to be , even if less rigorous , may help to throw light upon this somewhat difficult subject .
In actual deformation of a nlaterial sheet of finite extent there will lally be at any point not mcrely a displacement of the point itself , but a rotation of the noighbotlring parts of the sheet , such as a * An extreme case may serve as an stration .
Suppose that bending is such that principal planes retain ) positions vely to the nlakrial surface , but that the principal cul.vatures are cxchanged .
The of at the in question the after deforlnation as , and by a rotation roun(1 the ncrmal the faces may bo mnde to fit ; eless t enet.gy of bending is finite .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the rigid body may undergo .
All this contributes nothing to the In order to take the question in its simplest form , Jet us refer original surface to the norlnal and principal tangents at the point in question as axes of , and let us suppose that after tion , the lines in the sheet originally coincident with the principal tangents back ( if necessary ) to occupy the same as at first .
The possibility of this will be apparent when it is membered that in of the iuextensibility of the sheet , the angles of intersection of all lines traced upon it remain unaltered .
The equation of the surface in the neighbourhood of the point being . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 6 ) , that of the deformed surface may be written . . . . . . . . . .
( 7 ) .
In striotness are the curvatures of thesections made by the planes ; but since principal curvatures are a maximum or a minimum , they represent with sufficient accuracy the new principal iures , although these are to be found in slightly different planes .
The condition of inextensibility shows that oints which have the same and in ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) are corresponding , and by Gauss 's theorem it is further necessary that . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 8 ) .
It thus appears that bhe energy of bending will depend upon two quantities , one giving the alterations of principal curvature , and the other depending upon the shift ( in the material ) of the principal planes .
In calculating the we may regard it as due the stretchings an contractions under tangential of the various infinitely thin laminae into which the shell may be divided .
The middle ]amina being unstretched , makes no contribution .
Of the other laminae , the etching is in proportion to the distance from the middle surface , and the energy of stretching is therefore as the square of this distance .
When the integration over the whole thiokness of the shell is carried out , the resuIt is accordingly proportional to the cube of the thic.kness .
next step is to estimate more precisely the energy corl.esponding to a small element of area of a lamina .
The general equations in Bending and Vibration of thin Elastic Shells .
three dimensions , as given in Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy , ' S 694 , Me ( 10 ) , where ( 11 ) The energy corresponding to the unit of volume , is iven by .
In the application to a lamina , supposed parallel to , we are to take ; so that Thus in terms of the elongations , parallel to , and of the shear , we get . . . . . . .
( 13 ) .
We have now to express the elongations of the various lamitlae of a shell when bent , and we will begin with the case where , that is , when the principal planes of curvature remain unchanged .
It is evident that in this case the shear vanisbes , and we } ) to deal only with the elongations and parallel to the axes .
In the sectio1l by the plane of , let denote corresponding infinitely small arcs of the middle and of a lamina distant from it .
If be the angle between the terminal normals , .
In the bending , which leaves unchanged , .
Hence , and in like manner .
Thus for the energy per unit of area we have is Young 's modulus , is Poisson 's ratio , is he constant of rigidity , and that of cubic compressibility .
In terms of Lame 's constants , Lord Rayleigh .
On the and ou ' over the whole thickness of the shell .
This conclusion be applied at once , so as to give the result applicable to a sphel.ical shell ; for , since the original principal.planes arbitrary , they cau be taken so as to ncide with the ptlncpal planes after bending .
Thus ; and by Gauss 's theorem so that .
( 15 ) , denotes the change of principal curvature .
ince e , the various laminae are simply sheared , and that in proportion to distance from the middle surface .
energy is thus a lnction of ffie constant of rigidity ouly .
The result ( 14 ) is applicable direcbly to the plane plate ; but this case is peculiar in that , on accotlnt of the infinitude of is fisfied without amy relation between and .
Thus for a plane plate ( 16 ) , here , are the two independent pl'incipal curvatures after bending .
We have thus far considered to vanish ; and it emains to inves tigate the effect of the deformations expressed by , where relate to new axes inclitled at to those of .
The curvatures defined by ( i7 ) are in the planes of , equal in value and opposite in sign .
The elongabions in these ections for is here assumed that and are independent of , that is , the material is homogeneous .
If discard this restriclion , may form the conception shell of given thickness , middle surface is inextensible , while tance to bending is moderate .
In this way we may realise the types deformatior } discussed in the present paper , without supposing thickness r.nfmitely small and the independence of types upon conditions to be at a free edge is perhaps rendered more apparent .
1888 .
] Bending and ibration of Elastic Shells .
113 lamina within the thickness of the shell are the corresponding energy ( as in the case of the sphere considered ) takes he form .
energy is to be added* to that already found in ( 14 ) ; and we finally . .
( 19 ) , the complee expression of the enet:gy , when deformation is that the middle surface is unextended .
We may interpret by eans of the angle , through which the principal planes are shitted ; .
It will now } ) in our power to treat more completely a problem of eat interest , , the deformabion and tion of a cyliudrical shell .
my paper I investigated the types of bending , but itllout a calculation of .
The resuIts were as If the be oferred to columnar coordinates , so that cements of point whose equilibrinm coordinates are denoted by , the equations expressiug inexteusilulity take the form from which we may deduce .
By ( 22 ) , if , we may take ( 23 ) , and then , by ( 21 ) ( 24 ) , ( 25 ) .
* Therc clearly no terms involving the pl:oducts of with the changes of incipal ; for a change in the sign of can have no inHuc.nce upon the energy of deforlnation defined by ( 7 ) .
The method of investigation is simil , are to that employed by JelIet in his memoir ( ' ' On tbo Propertics of InextenRible Surfaoes ' lrish Acad. TrAns 1855 , p. 179 ) , to which reference ) been mnde .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the If the cylinder be complete , is integral ; A. and are constants , eittler of which ma .
vanish .
In the latter case the placement is in two dimensions only .
* It is unnecessary to stop consider the demonstrations of ( 21 ) , inasmuch as these will present themselves independently in the course of the investiga .
tions which follows .
It will be convenient to replace by single letters .
which , however , it is difficult to choose so as not to violate some of the usual conventions .
In conformity with Mr. Love 's general notation , I will write .
( 26 ) .
The problem before is the expression of the changes of pl.incipal curvature and shifts of principal planes at any point of the cylinder in terms of the displacements .
As in ( 6 ) , take as fixed -ordinate axes the principal tangents and normal to the undisturbed cylinder at the point , the axis of being parallel to that of the cylindor , that of tangential to the circular section , and that of normal , measured inwards .
If , as it will be convenient to do , we measure and from the point , we may express the undis turbed coordinates of a material point in the neighbourhood of by .
( 27 ) .
During the displacement the coordinates of will receive the increments ; so that after displacement , ; or if be expanded in powers of the small quantities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 28 ) .
( 29 ) .
' Theory of Sound , ' S 233 .
1888 .
] Bending and ibration of Elastic Shells .
, , . . .
being the values of at the point P. These equations give the coordinates of the various points of the deformed sheet .
We have now to suppose the sheet moved as a rigid body so as to restore the position ( as far as the first power of small quantities is concerned ) of points infinitely near P. A purelytransIatory motion by which the displaced is brought back to its position will be expressed by the simple omission in ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) , ( 30 ) of the terms respectively , which are independent of .
The effect of an arbitrary rotation is represented by the additions to respectively of ; where for the present purpose are small quantities of the order of the deformation , the square of which is to be neglected throughout .
If we make these additions to ( 28 ) , \amp ; c. , substituting for ] , in the terms containing approximate values , we find so far as the first powers of Now , since the sheet is assumed to be inextonsible , it must be sible so to determine that to this order Henco The conditions of inextensibility al.e thus ( if we drop suffices as no longer required ) Lord Rayleigh .
On the .
( 31 ) , which agree with ( 21 ) .
Returning to ( 28 ) , \amp ; c. , as modified by the addition of the trans .
latory and rotatory terms , we get terms of 2nd order in since by ( 31 ) , and The equation of the deformed surface after transference is thus .
Comparing with ( 7 ) we see that , ; that by ( 19 ) . . .
( 34 ) .
This is the potential energy of bending reckoned per unit of area .
It can if desired be expressed by ( 31 ) entirely in terms of We will now apply ( 24 ) to calculate the whole potential energy a complete cylinder , bounded by plane edges , and of * From Mr. 's general equations ( 12 ) , ( 13 ) , ( 18 ) a concordant result may obtained by introduction of the special eonditions\mdash ; the problem to the case of the cylinder , and of those express the inextensibility of the middle sul.face .
1888 .
] Bending and Vibration of thin Elastic Shells .
ness which , if variable at all , is a function of only .
Since are periodic when increases by , their most general expression in accordance with ( 31 ) is [ compare ( 23 ) , \amp ; c. ] ( 35 ) , .
( 36 ) , .
( 37 ) , in which the summation extends to all integral ] of from to .
But the displacements corresponding to are such as a rigid body might undergo , and involve no absorption of energy .
When the values of are substituted in ( 34 ) all the terms containing products of sines or cosines with different values of vanish in the integration with respect to ) , as do also those which contain ) .
Accordingly . .
( 88 ) .
Thus far we might consider to be a function of ; but we will no treat it as a constant .
In the integration with respect to the odd powers of will disappear , and we get as the enel'gy of tho whole cylinder of radius , length , and thickness .
( S9 ) , in which , 4 , , .
The expression ( 39 ) for the potential energy suffices the solution of statical problems .
As an example we will suppose that tho cylinder is compressed along a diameter by equal forces , applied the points , although it is true that so highly ised a force hardly comes within the scope of the investigation in consequence of the stretchings of the middle surface , which will 118 Lord Rayleigh .
On the occur in the immediate neighbourhood of the points of tion .
* The work done upon the cylinder by the forces during iical displacement indicated by , \amp ; c. , will be by ( 36 ) , so that the equations of equilibrium are Thus for all value of ; and for odd values of But when is even , ( 40 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . .
: ; and the placemenb w at any point is given by , where , . . .
determined by ( 40 ) , ( 41 ) .
If the cylinder be moderately in proportion to its diameter , the second term in the left hand member of ( 41 ) may be neglected , so that In this case ( 42 ) may be written . . . . .
*Whatever the ature of the sul.face , area upon it may be taken so as to behave like a plane , and therefore bend , in violation of Gauss 's condition subjected to a force is so nearly discontinuous that it vnries sensibly the alea .
1888 .
] Bending and Vibration of thin Elastic Shells .
119 showing that , except as to magnitude and sign , the curve of deformation is the same for all values of and If , the amplitudes are in the ratio ; and if , fnrther , , i.e. , if the force be applied at one of the ends of the cylinder , the amplitndes are as 2 : .
The section where the deformation ( as reprebented by w ) is zero , is glven by in which if When the condition as to the length of the cylinder is not imposed , the ratio is dependent upon , and therefore the curves of deformation vary with , apart from mere magnitude and sign .
If , however , we limit ourselves to the more important term , we have and ; so that ?
vanishcs when .
( 44 ) .
This equation may be applied to iind is the ]ength of the cylinder when deformation just vanishes at one end if the force is applied at the other .
If For many materials tion ( is about , or .
In such the condition is It should not bc overlooked although may vanish , remains finite .
Reverting to ( 23 ) , ( 24 ) , we see that , if tho cylinder is open at both ends , thore are two lypes of deformation possible for each value of .
If we suppose the cylinder to be closed at by a flat disk attached to it round the circumference , the inextensibility of the disk imposes the conditions , , when Hence , and the only deformation now possible is That is unaltered when and interchanged is an examplc of the general law of reciprocity .
being grcater than 1 .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the Another disk , attached where has a finite value , would render cylinder rigid .
Instead of a plane disk let us next suppose that the cylinder is closed at by a hemisphere attached to it round the circum .
ference .
By ( 1 ) the three component displacements at the edge of the hemisphere are of the form Equating these the sponding values for the cylinder , as given by ( 23 ) , , we get ; so that the deformation of the cylinder is now limited to the type siu in which we may , of course , introduce an arbitrary multiplier and an arbitrary addition to .
If the convexity of the hemisphere be turned outwards , is to be considered positive .
In like manner amy other convex additions at one end of the cylinder might be treated .
There are apparently three conditions to be fied by only two constants , but one condition is really redmldant , being already secured by the inexteIlsibility of the edges provided for in the types of deformations determined separately for the two shells .
Convex additions , closing both ends of the cylinder , render it rigid , in accordance with Jellet 's theorem that a closed oval shell cannot be bent .
It is of importance to notice how a cylinder , or a portion of a cylinder , can not be bent .
Take , for example , an ated strip , bourzded by two generating lines subtending at the axis a small angle .
Equ.ations ( 31 ) giving show that the strip cannot be bent in the plane containing the axis and the middle generating line .
* The only bending symmet with respect to this is the principle upon metal is corrugated .
1888 .
] Vibration of thin Elastic Shelts .
121 plane is a purely cylindrioal one which leaves the middle genel.ating line straight .
There are two ways in which we may conceive the strip altered so as to render it susceptible of the desired kind of bend .
The first is to take out the original cylindrical curvature , which reduces it to a plane strip .
The second is to replace it by one in which the middle line is curved from the beginning , like the equatol of a sphere or eUipsoid of revoIution .
In this case the total curvature being finite , the Gaussian conditiou can be satisfied by a change of meridianal curvature compensating the supposed change of equatorial curvature .
It is easy to calculate the actual stiffness and ( 14 ) , for here .
We have . . . .
( 47 ) , which expresses ) vork per unit of area COI'responding to a given bending along the equator .
If , the cylindrical strip infinitely stifl .
Ifthe curvature be spherical , , and ; and if ( 49 ) .
Whatevcr the equatorial cul .
Yature may be , the ratio of stiffnesses the two cases is equal to , or about 2 : 3 , the spherical .
curved strip being the stiffer .
The same principle applies to the explanation of Bourdon 's gauge .
In this instrument there is a tube whose axis lies along an arc of a circle and whose section is elliptical , the longer axis of the ellipse being perpendicular to the general plane of the tube .
If we now consider the curvature at points which lie upon the axial section , we learn from Gauss 's theorem that a diminished curvature along the axis will be accompanied by a nearer approach to a circular section , and reciprocally .
Since a circular form has the largest area for a given porimeter , internal pressure tends to diminish the eccentricity of the elliptic section and with it the general curvature of the tube .
Thus , if one end be fixed , a pointer connected with the ffie end may be made to the intel.nal pressurc .
* * Dec. 1--It appears , howevcr , that the bending of a curved tube of elhptical section cannot be puro , since the parts of the walls which lie furthest the circular axis ars nccessarily stretched .
The difficulty thus arising may be obviated by replacing th ' , two halves of the ellipse , which lie on either side of the mnjo ] axis , by two symmetrical curves which meet on the major axis at a finite angle .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the We will now proceed with the calculation for the h.equencies vibration of the compIete cylindrical shell of length .
If volume-density be we have as the expression of the kinetic energy by means of ( 35 ) , ( S6 ) , ( 37 ) . .
From these expressions for and in ( 39 ) , ( 50 ) the types and frequencies of vibl'atioTl can be at once deduced .
The fact that } squares , and not the products , of , are involved , shows that these quantities are really the pl'incipal coordinates of the vibrating system .
If , or , vary as , we have .
This is the equation for the frequencies of vibration in two dimeIlsions .
a given material , the requency is proportional to the thickness and inversely as the square on the diameter of the cylinder .
In like manner if , or , vary , we find . . . . . .
( 52 ) .
1\mdash ; \mdash ; If the cylinder be at all long in proportion to its diameter , the According to the equations ( in columnar -ordinates ) of my former paper , the conditions that sball be independent of lead to\mdash ; where O is an absolute constant .
The case where the section is a rhombus ) may be mentioned .
difflculty referred to above ises when * This can scarcely be confused with the notation for the vature in the preceding ) arts of the investigation .
See 'Theory of Sound , ' S 233 .
There is nothing in these laws special to the cylinder .
In the case of similar shells of any form , vibrating by pure bending , th fi.equency will be as the thicknesses and inversely as corresponding areas .
If the similarily extend also to the Lhickness , then the frequency is inversely as the ]inear dimension , in ith the general law of Cauchy .
1888 .
] Bending and Vibration of thin Elastic Shells .
123 difference between and becomes very small .
Approximately in this case ; or if we take In my former paper I gave the types of vibration for a circular cone , of which the cylinder may be regarded as a particular case .
In terms of columnar coordinates we have . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 53 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 54 ) , oz sill S. ( 55 ) , being the semi-vertical angle of the cone .
For the calculation of the energy of bending it would be simpler to use polar co- ordinates being measured from the vertcx instead of from the axis .
If the cone ) complete up to the vel.tex , we must suppose , in ( 53 ) \amp ; c. , .
And if we proceed to calculate the potential energy , we shall find il iIlite , at least when the thickness is uniform .
since is of no dimensions in ] , the square of the change of must be proportional to this is multiplied by , and , a arithm is introduced , which assumes an infinite value when .
The complete cone must therefore be regarded as infinitely stiff , just as the cylinder would if one rim were held fast .
If two Himilar cones ( bounded by circular rims ) are attached so that the collmon rim is a plane of symmetry , bending may be such that the commo1l rim emains planc .
If distance of this plane from the vertex be , the condition to be satislied in ( 5S ) \amp ; c. , is that where .
Hence . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 56 ) , an . . . . . . . . . .
( 57 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

