PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
November 17 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniveisaiy Meeting was given from the Chair .
Mr. Alfred Bray Kempe was admitted into the Society .
Professor W. G. Adams , General Boileau , General Clerk , Dr. Duncan , and Mr. R. H. Scott , having been nominated by the President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
A letter from the Eoreign Office was read enclosing a despatch , dated September 1 , 1881 , from Major Wodehouse , Her Majesty 's Consul at Honolulu , stating that the flow of the lava-stream from the volcano , Mauna Loa , had " finally ceased .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Note on the Photographic Spectrum of Comet b 1881 .
By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 27 , 1881 .
[ Pi ATE 1 .
] On the evening of Jnne 24 , I directed the reflector furnished with the spectroscopic and photographic arrangements described in my paper u On the Photographic Spectra of Stars to the head of the comet , so that the nucleus should be upon one half of the slit .
After one hour 's exposure the open half of the slit was closed , the shutter i/ VOL. XXXIII .
* " Phil. Trans. , " 1880 , p. 669 .
B 2 On the Photographic Spectrum of Comet b 1881 .
[ Nov. 17 , withdrawn from the other half , and the instrument then directed to Arcturus for fifteen minutes .
After development , the plate presented a very distinct spectrum of the comet , together with the spectrum of the star , which I have already described in the paper referred to above .
The spectrum of the comet consists of a pair of bright lines in the ultra-violet region , and a continuous spectrum which can be traced from about F to some distance beyond H. The bright lines , a little distance beyond H , with an approximate wave-length from 3870 to 3890 , appear to belong to the spectrum of carbon ( in some form , possibly in combination with hydrogen ) , which I observed in the spectra of the telescopic comets of 1866 and 1868 .
In the continuous spectrum shown in the photograph , the dark lines of Fraunhofer can be seen .
This photographic evidence supports the results of my previous observations in the visible spectra of some telescopic comets .
Part of the light from comets is reflected solar light , and another part is light of their own .
The spectrum of this light shows the presence in the comet of carbon , possibly in combination with hydrogen .
On the next night , June 25 , a second photograph was obtained with an exposure of an hour and a half .
This photograph , notwithstanding the longer exposure , is fainter , but shows distinctly the two bright lines and the continuous spectrum , which is too faint to allow the Fraunhofer lines to be seen .
( Postscript , July 9 , 1881 .
) I have since measured the photographs of the comet 's spectrum , and I find for the two strong bright lines the wave-lengths 3883 and 3870 .
The less refrangible line is much stronger , and a faint luminosity can be traced from it to a little beyond the second line 3870 .
There can be , therefore , no doubt that these lines represent the brightest end of the ultra-violet group which appears under certain circumstances in the spectra of the compounds of carbon .
Professors Liveing and Dewar have found for the strong line at the beginning of this group the wave-length 3882'7 , and for the second line 3870'5 .
I am also able to see upon the continuous solar spectrum , a distinct impression of the group of lines between G and h , which is usually associated with the group described above .
My measures for the less refrangible end of this group give a wave-length of 4230 , which agrees as well as can be expected with Professors Liveing and Dewar 's measure 4220 .
In their paper " On the Spectra of the Compounds of Carbon , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 494 , Professors Liveing and Dewar show that these two groups indicate the presence of cyanogen , and Uvuggins , Proa Roy .
Soo .
VoL 33 PU1 .
Sjbolliswoode \lt ; \amp ; CfZith .
Zondow .
1881 .
] Note on the Reversal of the Spectrum of Cyanogen .
are not to be seen in the absence of nitrogen .
If this be the case , the photograph gives-undoubted evidence of the presence of nitrogen in the comet , in addition to the carbon and hydrogen shown to be there by the bright groups in the visible part of the spectrum .
On this hypothesis we must further suppose a high temperature in the comet unless the cyanogen is present ready formed .
I should state that Mr. Lockyer regards the two groups in the photograph , and the groups in the visible spectrum , to be due to the vapour of carbon at different heat-levels ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. 30 , p. 461 ) .
It is of importance to mention the strong intensity in the photograph of the lines 3883 and 3870 , as compared with the continuous spectrum , and the faint bright group beginning at 4230 .
At this part of the spectrum , therefore , the light emitted by the cometary matter exceeded by many times the reflected solar light .
I reserve for the present the theoretical suggestions which arise from the new information which the photographs have given us .
The diagram shows the two sets of bright lines and the solar spectrum .
There is also indicated in it a small increase of brightness between h and H , which was suspected in the photograph .
[ The accompanying lithograph was executed by order of the British Association for the Advancement of Science , for the illustration of the forthcoming Report for 1881 .
The use of the stone has been allowed to the Royal Society by the Council of the Association.\#151 ; G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. ] II .
" Note on the Reversal of the Spectrum of Cyanogen .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S- , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received July 4 , 1881 .
In the course of many observations on the reversal of lines of metallic spectra , we have frequently noticed dark shaded bands which appeared to be the reversals of bands ascribed to the oxides or chlorides of sundry metals ; more particularly we have seen them when experimenting with compounds of the alkaline earths , and we have repeatedly obtained a reversal of the green magnesium-hydrogen series ; but , until recently , we have never seen any reversal of the shaded bands of the spectrum of cyanogen , though our attention has been constantly directed to this spectrum .
Quite lately , however , we have obtained photographs which show the reversal of the violet and ultra-violet bands of this spectrum ; and the fact is perhaps of sufficient interest , especially in connexion with the question of the occur-

