" On the evolution of Nitrogen during the growth of plants , and the sources from whence they derive that element .
" By Robert Rigg Esq. Communicated by the Rev. J. B. Read , M.A. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. In this communication the author follows up his inquiry into the influence and importance of nitrogen in vegetable physiology , by noticing , in the first place , the experiments of Dr. Daubeny , M. De Saussure , Sir Humphry Davy , and those which he himself has made ; all of which tend to prove that nitrogen is evolved during the healthy performance of the functions of plants ; that the proportion which it bears to the oxygen given off is influenced by the sun 's rays ; but that owing to the necessary exclusion of the external atmosphere during the progress of the experiments , it is impossible , with any degree of accuracy , to calculate the volume of these evolved gases during any period of the growth of plants in their natural state .
If to this indefinite quantity of nitrogen given off by plants there be added that definite volume incorporated into their substance and shown in the author 's former tables , the question arises , whence do plants derive their nitrogen , and does any part of it proceed from the atmosphere ?
A problem which the author proposes to solve by a series of tabulated experiments upon seeds , and seedling plants , indicating a large excess of nitrogen in the latter , and under such circumstances of growth that he is compelled to fix upon the at ?
mosphere as its source .
By the same mode of experimenting , the author attempts to show that the differences which we find in the germination of seeds and the growth of plants in the shade and sunshine , are apparently due in a great measure to the influenoe of nitrogen .
And he concludes by observing , that he does not touch upon the practical application of the subject wherein the real value of the inquiry consists ; it is his object to draw attention to an element which , though in some instances so minute in quantity as to be with difficulty detected in our balances , has nevertheless been wisely assigned to discharge the most important functions .

