1894 .
] Organisation , and Classification of Fossil 291 permit no doubt that they are true reptiles .
The mammalian resemblances in the skull being paralleled in the other parts of the skeleton , it may be affirmed that these fossils demonstrate a closer affinity between reptiles and mammals than had previously been evident .
XVI .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 5 .
On new Cynodontia .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received February 13 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The Cynodontia is a division of the Theriodontia in which there are long and large temporal vacuities in the skull , formed chiefly by the squamosal and malar bones ; in which there is no descending pedicle to the squamosal bone ; in which the occipital condyle is crescentic and imperfectly divided into two lateral parts ; and in which the hinder molar teeth , larger than the incisor teeth , develop anterior and posterior cusps , are compressed from side to side , and overlap , with shearlike action , the teeth of the mandible .
The principal new genera included in this group are which is known from several skulls , and one fairly complete skeleton ; and the genus Tribolodon , which does not differ in a striking way from the small Cynodonts previously known , referred to the genera Galesanrus , Nythosaurus , and Thrinaxodon .
The skeleton of Cynognathus crateronotus was found at Lady i'rere , near Queenstown .
A single tooth of this genus had already been obtained by Mr. Alfred Brown at Aliwml North .
The skull is between 15 and 16 in .
long , 8 in .
high at the orbits , and higher at the occiput , where it was about 9 in .
wide .
The lateral aspect is remarkably Mammalian , owing to the great development of the dentary bone , which forms a new type of lower jaw , and has a greatly developed coronoid process , and the form of the zygoma .
On the palate , the palatine and transverse bones form a descending arch between the rami of the mandible , as in Crocodiles , and Lizards .
The composite structure of the lower jaw is seen on its inner side .
The pre-frontal and post-frontal bones remain distinct .
There is a small quadrate bone embedded in the large squamosal bone .
The latter resembles that of Mammals , both in its extension along the zygoma , and its expansion as a squamous plate on the side of the brain case .
There are four incisors in each pre-maxillary ; their margins are serrated .
There appear to be but three mandibular incisors on each side , so that the type resembles Gynocha but there is no evidence 292 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
Researches on the , [ June 21 , of close affinity with that genus .
The canine teeth are large , worn on the anterior border , and serrated on the hinder margin .
Remnants of canine teeth are indicated which have been replaced by those which persist .
There are nine molar teeth , of which the first five are smaller than the posterior teeth .
Those teeth are more than half as wide again , from front to back , as the anterior teeth .
The hinder teeth have the principal cusp directed backward , with one subordinate pointed cusp on the front margin , and two subordinate cusps on the hinder margin .
The crowns of the teeth stand high above the alveolar margin in this species .
They are intermediate in form of crown between Canis and Zeuglodon .
The nares are terminal , divided , lateral , and arch forward in front of the alveolar margin .
The orbit of the eye is 8 in .
behind the extremity of the snout , nearly circular , and separated from the temporal vacuity by the post-frontal bone .
The post-frontal bones con-verge backward along the parietal crest .
The malar bone develops a slight descending process on its inferior margin .
There is no interorbital septum ossified .
The type species of Gynognathus shows , on the one side preserved , a small post-orbital foramen , comparable to that of Procolojohon , and the author considers that the enlargement of this foramen makes an essential difference in plan between the skulls of Teleosaurs and Tlieriodonts , and regards the Mammalian zygoma as resulting from the obliteration of the post-orbital vacuity which defines the superior and inferior temporal arcades in Saurischia and other Reptilia .
In general structure of palate Cynognathus resembles There is no transverse boundary to the hard palate , but the palato-nares are lanceolate .
The author finds that the downward development of the bones of the palate at the posterior borders of the nares , while thoroughly reptilian , approximates to the condition in Mammals .
The form of the lower jaw approximates to that of the older Mammals and lower Mammalian types , leading to the conclusion that the Mammalian lower jaw consists essentially of the dentary bone .
The dentary bone is compared to that of Microconodon in form , and development of the angle of the jaw .
The shoulder girdle consists of a large scapula , small coracoid , and compressed pre-coracoid .
The scapula demonstrates the origin of a spine like that of the scapula in Mammals , by outward development of the anterior border of the scapula in Reptiles .
This spine is defined by a pre-scapula development anteriorly .
The spine may have been originally a separate ossification , such as in has been named epi-clavicle .
It terminates in an acromion which is reflected forward .
The humerus is imperfectly preserved , but has the distal con1894 .
] Organisation , and Classification 293 dyles well developed ; and the proximal crest lias a form which is seen in Marsupials , but the articular head is transverse .
The vertebral column measures 37 ins .
from the body of the atlas to the last lumbar vertebra ; and its total length is 45 ins .
, but the extremity of the tail is lost .
There appear to be only six cervicals defined by the form and direction of the transverse processes for the tubercles of the ribs .
The head of the rib is attached to the intercentral suture , and in the first vertebra reaches the intercentrum .
There are 29 presacral vetebrse , of which 18 may be counted as dorsal and 5 as lumbar .
The most distinctive feature of the vertebral column is the interlocking of the ribs in the lower dorsal and lumbar region , where the ribs become transversely expanded , and anchylosed to the side of the centrum .
The neural arch in the lumbar region also interlocks , by an arrangement resembling the zygosphene and zygantrum of Serpents .
No dorsal rib is completely preserved .
The sacrum is small ; and the sacral ribs are smaller than the lumbar ribs .
They are four in number .
The middle two vertebrae are anchylosed .
The caudal vertebrae are short , only four are preserved .
They indicate a considerable movement .
There is no evidence of dermal armour .
The characters of the vertebral column described by Professor Cope , in Dimetrodon and allied genera , closely resemble Cynognathus .
The pelvis consists of three bones ; the ilium forms an expanded plate more resembling Megalosaurusthan There is a large longitudinal obturator foramen , between the pubis and the ischium .
The anterior transverse border of the pubis is cartilaginous , and there is no evidence of pre-pubic bones .
The ischium is larger than the pubis .
The author compares the anomodont pelvis with that of Plesiosauria , although Pliosaurus , in the form of the ilium , more closely approaches Dicynodon than Cynognathus .
The femur is imperfectly preserved .
It was characterised , as in all Theriodonts known to the author , by the development of an immense inferior plate or ridge at the proximal end , which distinguishes it from allied animals .
In this specimen the ridge is broken away .
The head of the bone is greatly expanded transversely ; and the distal end is not preserved .
Under the name Cynognathus Perryi the author describes imperfect evidence of a smaller skull of Cy , which is distinguished from C.craternotus with some doubt ; but if distinct it is defined by the relatively large size of the middle mandibular incisor , the apparent presence of ten molars , in all of which the crowns overlap each other , and the roots are barely shown at the alveolar border .
In the small species the cutting margin and the cusps of the posterior teeth are better defined .
If the species are identical the teeth have probably ' yet to be re294 Prof. 11 .
G Seeley .
Researches on the Structure , [ June 21 , placed by a successional series , but no known specimen of any genus shows such replacement .
f The skull of Gynognathus platyceps was obtained by Dr. Kannemeyr at Wonderboom .
It is a small species distinct from crateronotus .
The skull has lost the extremity of the snout .
It is remarkable for its depression .
The teeth , however , are similar to those of the larger species ; they have five denticles .
The composite structure of the lower jaw is well shown , and the dentary bone behind the angle of the jaw retreats so as to expose the elements which form the articulation .
The occipital plate of a large Theriodont skull from Lady Frere is described , which shows a circular foramen magnum , and the perfectly preserved occipital condyles which are not quite so completely separated as in Mammals , having only a median groove between them on the ventral surface .
Another fragment of a skull preserved in the Albany Museum has only the pre-orbital portion preserved , and is remarkable for the small size of its incisor teeth , widely separated from each other , and for having two canine teeth parallel to each other .
On both sides the crowns are imperfectly preserved .
The molar teeth are on the type of Gynognathus , with a principal cusp flanked back and front by a small cusp , with a smaller accessory posterior cusp in the four hindermost teeth .
As in all species of the genus the mandibular symphysis is long , oblique , and completely obliterated .
There is a large pit with sharp margin , in the median line in front of the orbits , which may be a generic difference from Gynognathus , since it occurs in the ax*ea in which other specimens show indications of a thin supra-nasal ossification flanked by a pair of small hemispherical concavities .
It is indicated as G. leptorhinus .
Triholodon Frerensisis the name given to a dentary bone with few three-pronged teeth widely separated from each other standing high above the jaw .
With this jaw is associated a femur which shows the transverse development of the great trochanter as strongly developed at the proximal end of the bone as in Ichthyosaurus , so that the trochanter minor of Mammals only represents that of Theriodonts in miniature , the trochanter being more developed than in Saurischia or any other reptiles .
With it is associated a right tibia which is somewhat curved and nearly as long as the femur .
These Cynodont remains have given no certain evidence of the extremities of the limbs ; but with this exception they make known the entire skeleton for the first time in an African Theriodont , furnishing data for comparison with Mammals and Reptiles in every part of the skeleton preserved .

