6 .
" On the Constitution of the Resins.* ' Parts II .
and III .
By J. F. W. Johnston , Esq. , F.R.S. In this paper the author , pursuing the train of investigation of which he has already given an account in a former communication , gives tabulated results of his chemical examination of several va ?
rieties of gamboge , and formulae expressing their chemical constitu ?
tion .
A detailed account is given of the properties of the gambodic acid , and of the salts it forms with various bases , such as the gambodiates of potash and soda , of ammonia , and of different earths and metals , particularly lime , strontia , magnesia , lead , copper , zinc , and silver .
He concludes from this investigation that the most probable formula for gamboge is C40 H23 08 .
In the analysis , however , of every specimen , there occurred a deficiency of carbon , amounting to nearly one per cent. ; a deficiency supposed to be due to a change produced during the preparation of the natural resin for the market .
By a heat of 400 ?
Fahr. gamboge undergoes a partial decomposi ?
tion ; a resin , soluble in alcohol , and another resin , insoluble in that menstruum being formed : the formula representing the latter being C40 H22 0Q .
Gamboge forms with the metallic oxides numerous salts , the existence and constitution of which , however , the experiments of the author only render probable .
The inquiries of the author were next directed to the chemical constitution of the resin of guaiacum , and to the properties of the salts it forms with various bases .
He then examines the acaroid resin , which exudes from the Xanthorrhoza hastilis , and is often known by the name of Botany-bay resin , or yellow gum ; and finds its formula to be C40 H20 012 , showing that it contains more oxygen than any other resinous substance hitherto analyzed .
The general conclusions drawn by the author from these researches are the following .
1 .
Many of the resins may be represented by formulae exhibiting their elementary constitution , and the weight of their equivalents , in which 40 C is a constant quantity .
2 .
There appear to be groups , in which the equivalents , both of carbon and the hydrogen , are constant , the oxygen only varying ; and others , in which the hydrogen alone varies , the two other elements being constant .
In the third part of the same series of investigations , the author examines the constitution of the resin of Sandarach of commerce , which he finds to consist of three different kinds of resin , all of which possess acid properties .
In like manner he finds that the resin of the Pinus abies , or spruce fir , commonly called Thus , or or ?
dinary Frankincense , consists of two acid resins ; the one easily so ?
luble in alcohol , the other sparingly soluble in that menstruum .
The gum resin olibanum , of commerce , was found to consist of a mix ?
ture of at least two gum resins , the resinous ingredient of each of which differs from that of the other in composition and properties .

