A paper was read , " On the Determination of the Thickness of solid Substances , not otherwise measurable , by Magnetic Devia ?
tions .
" By the Rev. William Scoresby , F.R.S. Lond. &amp; Edin .
Corresponding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris , &amp;c. In the first part of this paper , the author states the results of a series of experiments undertaken by him with the view of ascertain ?
ing whether all bodies are equally and uniformly permeable to the magnetic influence .
Out of a great number of substances not ferruginous , but of various qualities , thickness , and solidity , which were subjected to trial , no instance occurred of their offering any per ?
ceptible obstruction to the action of a magnet on a compass , when interposed between them .
No interruption to this action occurred even when the intervening bodies were iron ores , of which several were tried , excepting in one or two cases in which the ore was found to be itself magnetic .
Hence the author was led to conceive that an accurate estimation of the magnetic influence transmitted through solid substances , might afford an excellent mode of ascertaining the thickness of such substances which might not be otherwise determinable .
In order to judge of the degree of accuracy with which this might be accomplished , he instituted various sets of experiments ; first placing the magnet in a line pointing to the centre of the compass , and on a level with it , in the east and west magnetic direction ; and secondly in positions more or less oblique to this direction .
He found reason to conclude from these trials , that the degree of accuracy attainable by this method was such as to render it highly advantageous in mining operations .
Thus the thickness of a mass offreestone rock on the Liverpool and Manchester rail-way , three feet two inches in thickness , was determined by this method to within the eighth of an inch of its actual measurement , exhibiting an error of only one 334th part of the whole .
Many experiments were made to determine the effect which the form , dimensions , quality , and number of magnets have on the extent of their directive influence on the compass .
It was found that little , if any augmentation of power results from increasing the thick ?
ness of the magnet : but that , with magnets of similar form , the directive forces are nearly in the direct ratio of their lengths .
The author gives the results of an extensive series of experiments on the combined influence of several magnets , arranged , either in contact or in juxta-position , in a great variety of ways .
The contact of dissimilar poles was in all cases productive of an increase , and that of similar poles of a diminution of efficiency .
In the second part of this paper the author enters into an investigation of the law of the magnetic directive power with reference to distance : in which he finds it convenient to estimate all distances in multiples of the length of the magnet employed , or , more cor ?
rectly , of the interval between its two poles .
From the established law of magnetic force , ?
namely , that it is in the inverse duplicate ratio of the distance , ?
the author deduces formulae for estimating the directive power of a magnet on a compass at different distances .
The combined action of four magnets , on a compass of Captain Kater 's construction , which was five inches in diameter , will afford a tolerably accurate measurement of the thickness of any solid intervening substance , when about forty feet thick ; but even at the distance of eighty-two feet the deviation produced by the magnet will be two minutes of a degree , and therefore still very appreciable .
But the sensibility of the compass to the magnetic influence might be much further increased , by the application of a small directing magnet , placed in such a situation as to neutralize the greater part of the directive influence of the earth .
By this means the author obtained a deviation in the compass of about 5 ' , at a distance of61 feet , which extended through a variety of solid materials including soil , stones , and brick-work .
In the third part of this paper the author treats of the practical application of the magnetical influence in engineering , in tunneling , and in mining , for determining the thickness of solid masses in different situations where circumstances preclude the possibility of direct measurement .
He adduces a variety of instances in which the information thus obtained would prove of the greatest value , in directing the operations in progress , or determining those to be undertaken , and frequently in preventing the occurrence of accidents which the want of such knowledge may occasion .
He concludes with a statement and explanation of various practical directions for the employment of the method recommended .

