94 On Sinhalese Iron and Steel of Ancient Origin .
By Sir Robert Hadfield , F.R.S. ( Received October 12 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
) [ Plates 2\#151 ; 5 .
] Introduction .
The use of iron has without doubt existed from a time dating bac\#163 ; to a \#166 ; very early period in the world 's recorded history .
Owing , however , to the avidity of the oxygen present in the air for this metal , it has been most difficult to obtain ancient specimens of iron .
We have therefore but little definite evidence regarding its early manufacture and use .
It is for this reason the author thought that the present description of some interesting Sinhalese specimens of this nature which came under his notice during a recent tour in the East would be of interest to the Royal Society .
This is not the first time that the Royal Society has had presented to it papers on the subject .
One hundred and sixteen years ago\#151 ; to be exact , on June 11 , 1795\#151 ; Dr. George Pearson , a Fellow of the Royal Society , read a paper entitled " Experiments and Observations to Investigate the Nature of a Kind of Steel , Manufactured at Bombay , and there called Wootz , with Remarks on the Properties and Composition of the Different States of Iron .
" It was the author 's good fortune to visit the Colombo Museum and there see a large number of ancient specimens of iron and steel obtained from some of the buried cities of Ceylon , so well known to archaeologists .
These cities date from about 500 B.c. and had a continuous history up to about 1500 a.d. Through the kindness of the Governor-General of Ceylon , Sir Henry McCallum , to whom grateful acknowledgment is here made , the author was accorded the privilege of having placed at his disposal a few of these interesting specimens for investigation .
It is believed that the research which has now been carried out yields information not previously available on the subject of iron and steel specimens of known ancient origin ; in fact , no previous publications appear to present any complete and authentic analyses accompanied by mechanical tests and photomicrographs showing the structure of such material .
Not only does the Colombo Museum contain this large number of interesting specimens of ancient tools and implements of various kinds , some 250 in number , but in another section of its exhibits are shown several swords of more modern date , bearing upon them the dates of the years 1374 and 1416 A.D. , with Sinhalese legends inscribed upon them .
To those interested On Sinhalese Iron and Steel of Ancient Origin .
95 in the metallurgy of iron and steel this collection makes special appeal as being the most complete and unique yet known .
The following is the description of the specimens sent to the author for the purpose of this research :\#151 ; 1 .
Museum No. 138 .
Steel chisel from Sigiriya , of the fifth century ( a.d. ) .
Length , 10 inches .
2 .
Museum specimen , unnumbered .
Ancient nail ( pointed end broken off ) , 13^ inches long , probably also from Sigiriya , of the same date as the chisel , but the particulars are lost .
It is , however , certainly very ancient and is typical of a certain class of implements found in the ruined cities of Ceylon .
3 .
Native billhook or " ketta , " just as it came to hand from Dumbara , near Kandy , the headquarters of much mediaeval native work .
In a fuller paper on this subject , given elsewhere , the author deals with ( Section B ) opinions of various authorities with regard to the so-called Iron and Bronze Ages ; ( Section C ) remarks on the paper communicated in the year 1795 by Dr. Pearson , F.R.S. , to the Royal Society , on Indian Wootz steel ; ( Section D ) Heath and others on Indian and Sinhalese iron and steel ; ( Section E ) Delhi and Dhar pillars in India ; ( Section F ) remarks by MM .
Osmond and Maspero .
The present paper contains only the section dealing with the physical and chemical characters of the metal of the above specimens , and only a selection of the numerous photographic illustrations prepared .
A brief reference may be made to the interesting question of the hardness retentivity of ancient specimens of iron and steel .
This subject has also been dealt with by Dr. Cecil H. Desch in his recent interesting work on " Metallography .
" Dr. Desch speaks of the phases retained by quenching being commonly spoken of as metastable .
He considered , however , that whilst experimental proof had not been produced , we were bound to assume that the metastable limit had been passed , and that the systems are correctly described as labile , not as metastable .
Quenched specimens , therefore , tend spontaneously to assume an equilibrium condition by undergoing the transformation which was suppressed by quenching .
It is uncertain how far the spontaneous change can proceed at ordinary temperatures .
White tin , which is only stable above 18 ' , does not change into grey tin at 0 ' unless brought into contact with the new phase .
Below 0 ' the change can occur spontaneously , although even at low temperatures it may fail to occur when the tin is kept for long periods .
This would seem to indicate that the metastable limit for tin lies much below 0 ' .
Dr. Desch considers that hardened stgel is undoubtedly labile at the ordinary temperature , and the presence of the stable phase is not necessary Sir R. Hadfield .
[ Oct. 12 , , to initiate change .
But there is little evidence that softening of steel takes place spontaneously unless the temperature is raised .
He also states that Japanese swords of the XVth Century , when carefully preserved , are found to be as hard at the edge as if newly hardened ; it would therefore seem that no appreciable return to the stable takes place in the course of several centuries at atmospheric temperatures .
On the other hand , prolonged heating of hardened steel even at 100 ' produces an appreciable softening* and heating at 150 ' in a few minutes .
The whole question of labile and metastable conditions in undercooled solid alloys demands fuller investigation .
The above statement by Dr. Desch is particularly interesting in regard to the present paper , because it shows that hardened material of ancient origin , when found in soft condition , may really have originally been quite hard .
Thus , the edge of the ancient chisel , described in Experiment No. 2252* distinctly shows a defined structure in certain parts , differing from the other portion , apparently martensitic , as if it had once been in the hardened condition , but , by the expiration of time , had gradually assumed the condition in which it was now found , that is soft .
On the other hand* this particular chisel may not have been hardened , although the microstructure , by the presence of troostite , seems to indicate that this may have once been the case .
Description of the Present Research Experiments .
Details of the various specimens , and an account of the research conducted , with the results achieved , may now be given , these experiments being carried out by the author at the Hecla Works Laboratory and Research Department .
Experiment No. 2252.\#151 ; This was carried out upon the ancient Sinhalese chisel , being specimen marked No. 1 by Dr. Willey , and shown in fig. 14 ( 1 ) , Plate 2 .
This dates back to the Yth Century .
The specimen was very rough but without scale , and had an undulating surface , possibly due to unequal corrosion , and it is possible that the material was forged with rough implements of stone .
The chisel was about 10 inches in length , and at the upper portion , away from the edge , about 1T3\#165 ; inches square , -fjj- inch by inch in the centre , tapering to a point as with modern tools .
Table I.\#151 ; Composition .
C. Si .
S. P. Mn .
Fe .
Specific gravity , traces 012 0*003 0*28 nil 99*3 7*69 The difference represents slag and oxide .
1911 .
] On Sinhalese Iron and Steel of A ncient Origin .
97 Tensile Strength.\#151 ; The Fremont shear test showed 16 tons per square inch elastic limit , 26 tons per square inch breaking load .
Shock Test.\#151 ; The shock test , on un-nicked specimen , showed 17 kgrm .
with 85 ' bend before breaking .
Hardness.\#151 ; The Brinell ball test showed hardness numbers of 144 and 144 on the opposite side of the chisel .
The scleroscope hardness number was 35 .
The fracture was unsound , apparently owing to the existence of unsoundness or blowholes .
The crystalline structure showed large sparkling crystals .
The micro-structure of the specimens , shown by the photo-micrographs numbered fig. 15 ( Photo 318 , transverse section ) and fig. 16 ( Photo 318a , .
longitudinal section ) , brings out several joints of interest .
The transverse section shows that this chisel has been carbonised , the section showing the carbonised areas to be on two sides .
The carbonisation varies on the two faces from saturation point ( 0*9 per cent , carbon ) to about 0*2 per cent , carbon on the outside edge , and the depth of the carbonisation from the edge inwards is also shown to be variable .
The presence of martensite and hardenite ( fig. 15 , Photo 318 , carbonised area ) suggests the important fact that the chisel has been quenched .
Some of the crystals give evidence of a structure probably due to impurities of phosphorus and sulphur .
The longitudinal photographs of both the chisel and the nail show this structure .
A further micro-section was prepared from the specimen cut from the nose of the ancient chisel .
This photomicrograph ( not here reproduced ) carries evidence , in the authors view , that it has been quenched , for the structure is in parts martensitic .
Troostite is certainly also present , which is probably the result of tempering by the long lapse of time .
The author believes this is the first time there has been put on record evidence that the art of cementation must have been known 1500 to 2000 ' years ago , as shown by these specimens ; probably , therefore , such knowledge* would go back still further .
Experiment No. 2253.\#151 ; This was carried out upon the ancient Sinhalese nail , specimen marked No. 2 by Dr. Willey , the Director of the Colombo Museum , and is shown specimen No. 2 ( Plate 2 , fig. 14 , Photo 1471 ) .
This is probably of the same origin and age as the chisel just described .
This nail is about 13J inches in length , and inch by inch at the point the extreme point is missing .
Table II.\#151 ; Composition .
C. Si .
S. P. Mn .
Specific gravity , traces 0*11 nil 0*32 nil 7*69 VOL. lxxxvi.\#151 ; A. H 98 Sir It .
Hadfield .
[ Oct. 12 , Tensile Strength.\#151 ; The Fremont shear test showed 11 tons per square inch elastic limit , 21 tons per square inch breaking load .
Shock Test.\#151 ; The shock test , on un-nicked specimen , 0*5 kgrm .
by 1 ' , that is , it was very brittle .
Hardness.\#151 ; The Brinell ball test showed hardness numbers of 117 and 209 on opposite sides of the nail .
The scleroscope hardness number was 44 .
The fracture revealed a fine bright crystalline structure .
The micro-structure ( see Plate 4 , fig. 18 , Photo 317a , and fig. 19 , Photo 317b ) indicates a remarkable conglomeration .
Fig. 19 shows a weld running diagonally across the section , and along the edges of the weld there are carbonised areas .
Another notable point is that on one side of the weld the slag shows the effect of the forging , whereas on the other side there is no such sign .
The specimen is covered with slip bands , and has evidently undergone severe hammering , probably in its use as a nail .
The carbon in the carbonised areas exists as granular pearlite ; Photo 317 ( not reproduced ) is a transverse section , and figs. 18 and 19 are longitudinal sections , but of different fields .
The longitudinal photographs of both the chisel and the nail , figs. 16 , 18 , and 19 , show evidence of a structure .
The fragment from the nail was heated and forged well up to about 1150 ' C. As forged , the Brinell ball hardness number was 120 .
The same material heated to 1050 ' C. and quenched in water showed 130 Brinell ball hardness number , showing that it was not hardened by quenching .
Experiment No. 2254.\#151 ; This was carried out upon the ancient Sinhalese hillhook , specimen marked No. 3 by Dr. Willey , and shown in fig. 14 ( 3 ) { Photo 1471 ) on Plate 2 .
The specimen was very rusty , being covered with a thick brown rust .
The billhook is about 12^ inches in length , 3| inches in width at the blade , the handle being 4-J inches in length .
Table III.\#151 ; Composition .
C. Si .
S. P. Mn .
Specific gravity , traces 0*26 0*022 0*34 traces 7*50 Tensile Strength.\#151 ; The Fremont shear test showed 16 tons per square inch elastic limit , 29 tons per square inch breaking load .
Shock Test.\#151 ; The shock test on un-nicked specimen gave 7*1 kgrm .
by 35 ' bend only .
Hardness.\#151 ; The Brinell ball test showed hardness numbers of 153 and 166 on opposite sides of the billhook .
The scleroscope hardness gave number 23 .
The fracture showed bright crystalline structure , laminated appearance .
The report on the micro-structure of the specimen , as shown by photo1911 .
] On Sinhalese Iron and Steel of Ancient Origin .
99 micrographs , tigs .
20 ( Photo 319 ) and 21 ( Photo 319a ) on Plate 5 , is that the specimen contains a large amount of slag , and appears to represent what would be now termed a somewhat low quality of wrought iron , There seems to be practically no carbon present , and therefore no evidence of treatment other than forging can be obtained .
Fig. 20 is the transverse section and fig. 21 the longitudinal section .
Special interest attaches to the analyses given , as they probably represent the only modern complete and accurate determination of the composition of known and authentic specimens of ancient iron .
The percentage of phosphorus is , it will be noted , high , from 0*28 up to 0*34 per cent. , which , however , does not greatly differ from modern bar iron .
The sulphur percentage is extremely low , showing that a very pure fuel , no doubt charcoal , was employed in the production of the material .
There is very little silicon present and manganese is entirely absent , which is somewhat remarkable , as nearly all iron contains some manganese .
As the specimens from which to produce ordinary tensile pieces were too small , tests were obtained by means of the ingenious Fremont shear-test method .
The tensile quality of the material averages about 26 tons per square inch , or a little higher than wrought iron .
This , no doubt , is owing to the considerable percentage of phosphorus present , which stiffens or hardens iron .
The Fremont shock tests show fair results on the specimen taken from the chisel , namely , 17 kgrm .
with 85 ' bend .
The other specimens , however , show much lower figures , namely , the nail , 1 kgrm .
by only 1 ' bend , .and the billhook 7 kgrm .
by 35 ' bend .
The hardness by the Brinell method varied from 117 to 166 , one result from the nail showing 209 , but this is abnormal and cannot be accepted as representative .
The scleroscope tests varied from 25 to 44 , and as a comparison it may be mentioned that dead hard steel , by this latter method , shows 100 , and ordinary wrought iron about 20 .
From the microscopical examination , and from the other tests carried out , 4he specimens represent a material of the type known as wrought iron , and not steel .
The specimens somewhat resemble the material known as puddled iron , and appear to have been made from somewhat impure ore .
The material is very low in its percentage of carbon , and , excepting phosphorus , also other impurities .
There is present , in a lumpy irregular form , quite a large amount of slag , indicating that the material has not been submitted to anything like the amount of squeezing and forging that the modern wrought iron undergoes .
00 Sir W. Ramsay .
Note on the [ Nov. 13 , .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 2 ( fig. 14 ) .
( 1 ) Ancient chisel from Sigiriya , 5th century ( a.d. ) .
Two-thirds actual size .
( 2 ) Ancient nail , from Sigiriya , 5th century ( a.d. ) .
Two-thirds actual size .
( 3 ) Ancient " ketta " or billhook .
Two-thirds actual size .
Plate 3 ( figs. 15 , 16 ) .
Transverse and longitudinal sections of chisel , as marked .
Magnification 80 .
Plate 4 ( figs. 18 , 19 ) .
Transverse and longitudinal sections of nail , the longitudinal showing weld , tion 80 .
Plate 5 ( figs. 20 , 21 ) .
Transverse and longitudinal sections of billhook .
Magnification 80 .
Magnifiea- Note on the Monatomicity of Neon , Krypton , and Xenon .
By Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , E.R.S. ( Received November 13 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
) The monatomicity of neon , krypton , and xenon has been taken for granted oil somewhat insufficient evidence .
When the memoir on Argon and its companions* was written it was stated that no experiments with the pure gases had been carried out on the ratio between the specific heat at constant volume and constant pressure , but that measurements made with impure samples indicated the ratio 1*67 ; and it was remarked that such a ratio could not have been found had any considerable portion of the mixture consisted of a polyatomic gas .
Having now at my disposal relatively large quantities of pure neon , which had served Mr. Watson , and of pure krypton and pure xenon , which had served Prof. Moore , for determining the densities of these gases , it appeared advisable to fill the gaps in our knowledge of their specific heat ratios .
The apparatus was similar to the one described in the memoir on Argonf ; the wave-length of sound in neon wTas compared by Kundt 's method with that in air ; and the krypton and xenon , previously frozen and purified by pumping them free of any possible content of air , were also investigated in the same manner .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1901 , vol. 197 , pp. 82 and 83 . .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1895 , vol. 186 , Part I , p. 228 .
Hadfield .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. A , 86 , PI .
2 .
Hadfield .
Roy .
Sor .
Pro\lt ; \ A , 86 , 3 .
Hadfield .
Hoy .
Soc. Proc. AVol .
86 , MAGNIFICATION 80 .
Hadji eld .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. A , 86 , PI .
5 .
MAGNIFICATION 80

