[ 551 ] XIY .
Researches on the Foraminifera\#151 ; Supplemental Memoir .
On an Abyssal type of the Genus Orbitolites ; \#151 ; a Study in the Theory of Descent .
By William B. Carpenter , C.B. , , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 31 , \#151 ; Read June 14 , 1883 .
[ Plates 37 , 38 .
] Introduction .
The subject of this communication is a type of the genus Orbitolites\#151 ; first obtained in the deep-sea dredgings of H.M. Surveying Ship " Porcupine , " off the north-west of Ireland , in 1869 , ' " ' and subsequently brought up from various depths in other parts of the North Atlantic and also in the Mediterranean , \#151 ; which presents many points of general scientific interest ; the first of these being the completeness of the transition which it establishes between the Milioline and the Orbitoline plans of growth , and the full confirmation it thus affords of the validity of the principles on which my Classification of the Foraminifera is founded .
In the Monograph of the genus Orbitolites ( 1855 ) , which constituted the First Series of my " Researches on the Foraminifera , " t I embodied the results of a careful and thorough investigation of the structure and relations of all the forms under which that type was then known to me : and I showed that while the most highly developed and most specialized of these forms exhibit the cyclical plan of growth almost from the very commencement , \#151 ; a complete zone of sub-segments being formed by gemmation from the entire periphery of the " circumambient segment " of the central " nuclear mass , " J and the whole disk being made up of a succession of similar concentric zones , \#151 ; there are other forms in which the primary gemmation takes place from only one side of that mass , so as to impart to the early extension of the composite structure a more or less spiral direction , S which only gives place to the cyclical after repeated gemmations .
The transition from the one plan of growth to the other I showed to be made by the progressive widening-out of the spire , and the increase in the number of the * See Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 18 , p. 397 .
t Phil. Trans. , 1856 , pp. 181-236 .
t Ibid. , Plate IV .
, figs. 5 and 6 .
S Ibid. , Plate IX .
, figs. 1 to 4 .
552 DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
sub-segments ( formed by the division of the principal segments ) at every new stage of gemmation ; so that at last the alee of the spire , extending themselves on either side round the nuclear mass , meet and complete the circlet , around which new zones are then successively budded forth , as in the forms that are cyclical from their commencement .
1 did not at that time feel justified in calling in question the validity of the order Cyclostdgues , which had been instituted by M. D'Orbigny , for the reception of this and other types characterised by the cyclical plan of growth ; but in my Second Series ( presented in the following year ) , which contained the results of a similar investigation of the genus Orbiculina , I showed that the latter always begins life on the spiral plan of growth , which may or may not give place subsequently to the cyclical , and that the marginal portions of a full-grown cyclical Orbiculina cannot be distinguished from similar portions of an Orbitolite .
From this fact I drew the conclusion* that although Orbitolites and Orbiculina had been placed by M. D'Orbigny in two distinct orders , Cyclostegues , and , " the relationship between them must be extremely close ; " and ventured further to affirm that no Classification can have any claim to be considered as , in which they shall be widely separated .
" To this point I reverted in the Concluding Summary appended to my Fourth Memoir , t in which I showed how completely the results of my researches were opposed to the principles on which the Classification of M. D'Orbigny had been framed , indicated the line of " descent with modification " by which a division of the primary segments that form the simply-chambered shell of a into subsegments would give origin to the chamberlets of the spiral , and pointed out how gradational the transition is from the latter to the cyclical Orbitolites .
When I subsequently undertook , in conjunction with my friends , W. K. Parker and T. Rupert Jones , to frame an entirely new Classification of Foraminifera on the basis of the principles I had laid down , I felt no difficulty in assenting to their view that the pedigree of this series might be traced yet further back , viz. : to those simplest forms of the Milioline type , whose shell is a flattened nautiloid spire altogether destitute of partitions\#151 ; thus belonging to that monothalamous section which all previous Systematists had ranked as fundamentally distinct from the " From the undivided spiral of Cornuspira"I pointed out ( " Introduction to the Study of the Foraminifera , " p. 67 ) , " to the regular scarcely-divided spiral of certain ' spiroloculine ' forms of Miliola , the transition is almost insensible ; and from the ' spiroloculine ' we pass by easy steps to all the other forms of the Milioline type .
" Again , a subdivision of the widely-expanded spire of Cornuspira into segmental chambers gives us Peneroplis , with its septal planes perforated by a row of separate pores ; while from this , it was again pointed out , the spiral Orbiculina might * Phil. Trans. , 1856 , p. 552 .
t Ibid. , 1860 , p. 571 .
DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
be derived by a further division of the segments of the sarcodic body into sub-segments , with a corresponding division of the primary chambers of the shell into chamberlets .
In the new specific type of Orbitolites I have now to describe , the whole transition which I thus hypothetically indicated , is actually presented during the successive stages of its growth .
For it begins life as a taking-oil that ' spiroloculine ' condition which marks the passage towards the Milioline type : its shell forming a continuous spiral tube , with slight interruptions at the points at which its successive extensions commence ; while its sarcodic body consists of a continuous coil , with slight constrictions at intervals .
The second stage consists in the opening-out of its spire , and in the division of its cavity at regular intervals by transverse septa , traversed by separate pores , exactly as in P The third stage is marked by the subdivision of the ' peneropline ' chambers into chamberlets , as in the early forms of Orbiculina .
And the fourth consists in the exchange of the spiral for the cyclical plan of growth , which is characteristic of Orbitolites ; a circular disk of progressively increasing diameter being formed by the addition of successive annular zones around the entire periphery .
This increase in diameter is not here accompanied ( as it is in most of the other forms of the Orbitoline type ) by a corresponding augmentation in thickness ; and as the extraordinary tenuity of these disks affords an easily recognisable and ( as I believe ) a constant differential character of the species , I proposed in 1870* to designate it Orbitolites tenuissima .
Orbitolites tenuissima .
Carpenter , 1870 .
The disks of 0 .
tenuissima are usually almost perfectly flat ( Plate 37 , fig. 1 ) , and exhibit a remarkable regularity of structure .
The diameter of the largest complete specimen I have seen is not above 0'25 inch ; but it is obvious from the size and curvature of the fragments which the dredges frequently contained , that they must have belonged to disks whose diameter was at least 0'6 inch , these larger specimens having come to pieces in their rough removal from the soft and tranquil ooze on which they had previously lain .
This fragility depends in part upon the extreme tenuity of the disks , their thickness rarely exceeding one three-hundredth of an inch ; and in part on the slightness of the connexion which ( as I shall presently show ) exists between the successive zones.t When either surface of the disk of 0 .
tenuissima is viewed by reflected light under a low magnifying power , its concentric zones are seen to be crossed by radial lines ( Plate 37 , figs. 1 , 2 ) resembling those which pass between the septal bands * Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 19 , p. 176 .
t In Gycloclypeus , the marginal portions of the disk , though of even greater tenuity , have not by any means the same fragility ; partly because its vitreous shell-substance is much firmer than the jp orcellanousshell-substance of Orbitolites , and partly because a layer of it is usually continued from each new zone over the whole surface of the previously formed disk .
See Phil. Trans. , 1856 , p. 558 .
of Peneroplis .
But when a portion of the disk is viewed under a higher power by transmitted light , \#151 ; which , through the extreme tenuity of its superficial lamellae , brings its internal structure into distinct view ( Plate 38 , fig. 5 ) , \#151 ; these lines are seen not to be mere surface-markings , as in Peneropbut to be the indications of internal shelly partitions , which divide each flattened annular chamber into a series of narrow chamberlets , resembling those which I formerly described as constituting the two superficial layers of the " complex " type of Here , however , these chamberlets form but a single plane , as in the " simple " type formerly described ; and the pores by which the last-formed annulus opens at the margin of the disk are arranged in single series ( Plate 37 , figs. 4 , 5 ) .
It is worthy of note that these pores are not round , like those of ordinary whether of the " simple " or of the " complex " type ; + but are more or less elongated in the plane of the disk\#151 ; a peculiarity obviously related to its extreme compression .
Similar pores are seen upon the edge of any zone from which the zone external to it has been detached by fracture ; and it is obvious that they constitute the channels of communication between the cavitary system of each zone and that of the zones internal and external to it ; while the marginal series brings the cavitary system of the peripheral zone ( and , through it , that of every interior zone backwards to the spiroloculine " nucleus " ) into relation with the surrounding medium .
When a portion of the thin shelly lamella forming either surface of the disk has been removed by dilute acid , so as to lay open the cavity beneath ( Plate 37 , fig. 2 ) , it is seen that each zone of chamberlets lies between two concentric rings of shell , a , a , b , b ; and that the radiating partitions , c , while springing from the inner shellring , do not extend to the outer , so that a continuous gallery is there left , into which all the chamberlets open at their peripheral extremities .
And when we examine the disk by transmitted light ( Plate 38 , fig. 5 ) , we see it to be from this gallery\#151 ; not from the chamberlets\#151 ; that the pores of the shell-ring which encloses it proceed .
Whilst the structure of the concentric zones forming the peripheral portion of the disk thus corresponds in all its essential characters with that of the ordinary " simple " type described in my former Memoir , the structure of the central portion of the disk is altogether different .
The spheroidal " primordial chamber " ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 , a ) is extremely minute , not exceeding 1-1000th inch in diameter , and from this proceeds a compressed shelly tube , which forms a nautiloid spiral around it ( Plate 38 , figs. 3 , 5 ) each successive turn slightly increasing in breadth , so as closely to resemble the first-formed part of the spire of The continuity of its cavity , however , is interrupted , usually at about every two-thirds of a turn , by a thickening of its wall ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 , b ) , which seems to have been formed as a sort of foreshadowing of a septum at each addition to its length ; and thus , as long as the growth of the shell proceeds upon the same plan , it is a spiroloculine ' * Phil. Trans. , 1856 , p. 202 , Plate V. , fig. 6 , c , c ; Plate VII .
, fig. 12 .
1 Ibid. , Plate V. , figs. 1 and 6 , d , d. DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
But after making from six to eight turns ( the number varying in different individuals ) the spire begins to open out in the horizontal plane ( Plate 38 , fig. 5 , a ) without any vertical enlargement , and a complete septum is formed at the next break , marking oft1 the first principal chamber from the previously-formed spiral tube .
This septum is traversed , as in Peneroplis , by a variable number ( four in the specimen here figured ) of passages , which would show themselves as pores upon its external surface ; but these , instead of opening into another single undivided chamber , lead into as many chamberlets , which are formed by the subdivision of the next principal chamber , b , by radial partitions , exactly as in OrbiculThis chamber , in the individual here figured , is not separated by a completely-formed septum from the succeeding chamber , c , and the latter is undivided save by a single radial partition ; but this is a mere individual variation , \#151 ; which is of interest , however , as showing that the subdivision of the chambers into chamberlets is a secondary , not a primitive formation .
The septum which closes-in the chamber c is traversed by 13 pores , which open into as many chamberlets formed by the subdivision of the next principal chamber ; the separation of these chamberlets by radial partitions being complete for about four-fifths of the length of the chamber ( that is , of the distance between its inner and its outer septum ) , but deficient for the outer fifth , so as to leave the continuous gallery d , d , into which all the chamberlets open at their outer ends .
This chamber , it will be observed , extends itself on either side at d ' , d ' , so as to enclose a portion of the spiroloculine " nucleus ; " and this extension is still more marked in the next chamber , whose two alee , e ' , e , reach the ends of the transverse diameter of the original spire .
The septum which separates this chamber from the preceding has the number of its pores increased to 30 ; and these open outwards into as many chamberlets in the next-formed chamber .
As new chambers are successively added , the backward extension of their alee is carried further and further , until ( in the individual here figured , Plate 37 , fig. 1 ) those of the ninth chamber meet at the back of the spiroloculine " nucleus , " so as to enclose it all round , and the tenth chamber forms a complete ring of chamberlets , whose derivation from the undivided chamber of the ' peneropline ' type is made obvious by the previous transition .
With each increase in the length of the septal plane , there is a proportionate increase in the number of pores by which it is traversed , the distance between them having a very uniform average ; and the number of these pores determines the number of chamberlets in the next annulus , which has thus no definite relation to that of the chamberlets in either of the last-formed or in the subsequently-formed annulus .
The breadth of the zones ( and , consequently , the length of their chamberlets ) has a range of variation from l-180th to l-80th of an inch , its general average being l-120th inch ; so that a disk having a diameter of 0'6 inch ( or a radius of 0"3 ) would be made up of about forty such concentric zones .
A very narrow zone is occasionally seen to intervene between two zones of ordinary breadth ; but , as I have always found this to originate in a fractured portion of the preceding zone which then formed the margin of the disk , it would seem to have been a special reparative addition .
The whole cavitary system , from the primordial chamber to the marginal annular gallery , is occupied by a continuous sarcodic body of a dark olive-green hue ( Plate 38 , fig. 1 ) .
Although this body may be said to consist at any one moment of a multitude of sub-segments , connected together by annular and radiating stolon-processes , yet , from what we know of its semi-fluid condition in the living animal , we may pretty confidently surmise that this subdivision is by no means permanent , but that an interchange is continually taking place between the protoplasmic contents of the inner and the outer portions of the cavitary system , so that what occupies the central spire at any moment may be transferred in no long time to the marginal annulus , and vice versed .
The extreme tenuity of this sarcodic body , and the transparence of the shelly laminae that invest it , have enabled me very distinctly to recognise , by light transmitted through the disk , the presence of nucleus-like bodies ( Plate 38 , fig. 2 ) of about 1-1750th of an inch in diameter , imbedded in its substance .
As might be expected from the consideration just stated , these corpuscles are very irregularly distributed .
In the specimen here figured ( Plate 38 , fig. 1 ) , two of the outer half-whorls of the ' spiroloculine ' centre ( shown on a larger scale at , fig. 4 ) , are crowded with them ; while in a single chamberlet , c , of one of the interior annuli , there are as many as five .
Elsewhere , on the other hand , they present themselves with less frequency , only one or two occurring in any single chamberlet ( d , d , d ) , and a large proportion of the chamberlets being entirely destitute of them .
The finding of these corpuscles in the highly composite sarcode-body of Orbitolites is an interesting extension of the discovery , of Dr. Pt. Heutwig , of corpuscles regarded by him as nuclei , in what I long since characterised as the " reticularian " type of Rhizopoda , of which the ordinary Foraminifera are the testaceous forms .
This discovery was first made in the freshwater Monothalamous Mikrogromia\#166 ; * and subsequently extended by him to various marine Polythalamia , such as Spiroloculina , , and t and by F. E. Schultze to Quinqueloculina , Lagena , Polystomella , and What is the function of these corpuscles in that indefinite extension of the protoplasmic body , and the multiplication of its segments , which is so remarkable a character of this type , is not yet apparent ; but that they do not become the centres of distinct cells separated from each other by any limiting membrane , or even of permanent segments or sub-segments , may be regarded as certain .
If the nuclear character of these corpuscles be admitted , the entire composite organism thus seems to present a most interesting link of connexion between the unicellular and multicellular types ; the absolute continuity of its protoplasmic substance entitling it to rank with * Archiv fur Mikrosk .
Anat .
, Bd .
x. , Supplementheft ( 1874 ) p. 1 .
f Jenaische Zeitschrift , Bd .
x. , 1876 , p. 41 , Ac .
J Archiv fur Mikrosk .
Anat .
, Bd .
xiii .
, 1877 , p. 9 .
DU .
W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
the former , whilst in the multiplication of its nuclei it obviously tends towards the latter .
The growth of this beautiful organism doubtless takes place after the completion of the first annulus , in the manner described in my former Memoir ( S 35 ) .
The sarcodic body , when enlarged by the nutriment it has appropriated , will project itself through the marginal pores , in quantity sufficient to form , by the coalescence of its separate protrusions , a continuous belt of sarcode ; and in the substance of this a set of radial calcareous partitions will be deposited , commencing between the pores of the margin of the previous shell-ring , while two horizontal lamellae are formed on the superficial planes , to constitute , as it were , the floor and ceiling of the new circle of chamber]ets .
These horizontal lamellae overlap but very slightly the margin of the previous annulus ( Plate 37 , fig. 3 , a , a ) ; and their adhesion to it is generally so weak that the annuli readily come apart .
As the subdivision of the annulus into chamberlets does not extend to its outer portion , a passage is left ( seen in vertical section at b , b , b , fig. 3 ) , which is occupied by a continuous ring of sarcode , as shown in Plate 38 , fig. 1 ; and from this ring proceed the stolons which pass outwards through the pores of the septum that closes it in .
The homogeneousness of the protoplasmic substance by which the entire cavitary system is occupied , is shown ( as in the types formerly described ) by the completeness with which the effects of injuries are repaired , and the plan of the original fabric restored ( see Phil. Trans. , 1856 , Plate VIII .
, figs. 4-9 ) .
Not only is the loss of any part of the disk repaired by the formation of a new and continuous annulus along the broken as well as the unbroken margin , so that the next and all succeeding zones follow the new contour ( as shown in Plate 37 , fig. 6 ) ; but a new and entire annulus of chamberlets may form itself around the whole circumference of a mere marginal fragment ( fig. 7 ) , by the enclosure of which in a subsequent succession of annuli , the discoidal form characteristic of the type is completely and characteristically restored .
Owing to the transparence of these attenuated disks , I have been able to assure myself that every part of the margin of this fragment , whether broken or unbroken , peripheral , central , or lateral , has contributed to the formation of the first new complete annulus , by which the foundation was laid of the subsequent regular series of concentric zones ; thus clearly indicating that a sarcodic extension took place from every chamberlet laid open by the fracture , as well as from the normal pores of the last-formed septal plane , and that these extensions coalesced to form a continuous ring , as in the formation of the ordinary succession of concentric annuli .
This perfect reproduction of a form of peculiar regularity , in a type of animal organisation so low that its body-substance does not show any advance upon the primitive protoplasmic condition , is , in itself , a matter of great interest .
But the interest is much enhanced by the consideration that this organism begins life , and forms its first shelly envelope , upon a plan altogether different , ; exchanging this for its later mode of growth , by a transition so rapid as to manifest the almost sudden attainment of a much more specialised character .
And when this transition has been once made , there appears no disposition whatever , in the reparation of injuries , to a reversion to the earlier plan .
Now , this is a ''pregnant instance " of the following " law of formation , " sagaciously laid down long since by Sir James Paget :\#151 ; " When , in an adult animal , a part is reproduced after injury or removal , it is made in conformity , not with that condition which was proper to it when it was first formed , or in its infantile life , but with that which is proper according to the time of life in which it is reproduced ; proper , because like that which the same part had , at the same time of life , in members of former generations .
" And the study of this humble Orbitolite will be found , not only in this , but in other particulars , to justify the profound remark made by the same philosophic Pathologist , * long before the promulgation of the doctrine of " evolution , " that , " if we are ever to escape from the obscurities and uncertainties of our art , it must be through the study of those highest laws of our science which are expressed in the simplest terms in the lives of the lowest orders of creation .
" Geographical , Bathymetrical , and Geological distribution .
So far as is at present known , Orbitolites inhabits only the North Atlantic Ocean and the seas in communication with it .
The first complete specimens were obtained in the " Porcupine " dredgings of 1869 , at depths of from 630 to 1,443 fathoms , between the north-west of Ireland and Pock all Bank .
In the " Porcupine " expedition of 1870 , however , it was brought up from a bottom of only 64 fathoms in Setubal Bay , on the coast of Portugal , and afterwards from a shallow bottom within the Mediterranean , near Carthagena .
That it is an inhabitant of other parts of the Mediterranean I then inferred from the fact that I had detected fragments of it in the Foraminiferal dredgings , made at 250 fathoms by Edward Forbes and Lieut , ( now Admiral ) Spratt in the ^Egean , in 1842 ; and it is stated by Dr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys , in his " Report on the Biology of the ' Valorous ' Cruise , " that it has been dredged by the Marquis du Monterosato at from 100 to 200 fathoms ' depth , off the coast of Sicily .
That it might extend far to the north , would be expected from its capability of bearing the low temperature of 37 ' Fahr. , which prevails over the deep bottom from which it was first brought up ; and this expectation was verified by its presenting itself in one of the " Valorous " dredgings in Baffin 's Bay ( Jat .
62 ' 6 ' N. , depth 1,350 fathoms , temperature 34 ' 6 ' Fahr. ) , as well as at two stations in the North Atlantic , No. 12 , depth 1,450 fathoms , and No. 13 , depth 690 fathoms , both in the parallel of 56 ' .
It has been only once brought up , however , in the " Challenger " expedition , viz. , at Station 44 , off Cape Hatteras , from a bottom of 1,700 fathoms depth , over which creeps ( there is strong reason to believe ) an underflow of cold water from the Arctic basin .
Several specimens have ( I am informed ) been since found in a * " Lectures on Surgical Pathology , " 1849-Lect .
VII .
General Considerations on Repair and Reproduction .
DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
dredging taken by the French exploring-ship " Travailleur " in the Bay of Biscay ( Fosse de Cap Breton ) , at a depth of 1,200 fathoms .
It would seem , therefore , that Orbitolitestenuissima has its proper home on the sea-bottom of the deeper parts of the North Atlantic , where the temperature ranges from 37 ' to 35 ' Fahr. ; but that it also is capable of living , not only in much shallower , but also in much warmer , waters .
For the temperature of the Mediterranean and iEgean , even at depths below 100 fathoms , is never less than 54 ' , while on the shallow bottom of Setubal Bay , and on the shore-slope near Carthagena , the summer temperature must be considerably higher .
Looking to the singular retention , in this beautiful of the Milioline type from which its derivation may now be confidently affirmed , the probability seems strong that it was a very early form ; and if identical with Costa 's Pavonina italica * as the imperfect account given by him of that type would seem to indicate , it probably inhabited the Mediterranean daring the greater part of the Tertiary period .
Its persistence in the abyssal depths of the North Atlantic harmonizes well with the idea of its antiquity ; those depths having been found , by the recent exploration of them , to be inhabited by many " survivals " of the Cretaceous and even earlier Faunae .
It may be remarked , finally , that the considerable diameter attained b}T these very fragile discs , seems a proof of the extreme tranquillity of the deep-sea bottom ; since they could not otherwise have gone on growing and extending themselves , without showing more frequent marks of injury and reparation than I have observed in them .
Relation to other Orbitoline Types .
Having been requested by the late Sir C. Wyville Thomson to prepare a Report on the Orbitolites collected in the " Challenger " Expedition , I have carefully studied the remarkable gatherings made of them on and near the summit of the Fiji reef , and also at a depth of 18 fathoms on its slope .
The result of that examination now enables me to indicate with great probability the successive stages of the evolution of that highly specialised " complex " type , the derivation of which from a Milioline ancestry would have seemed\#151 ; but for the completeness of the series of intermediate forms\#151 ; almost inconceivable .
And I can now also mark out , with more distinctness than formerly , the types of this Genus , which , in virtue of their constancy and definiteness , are entitled to rank as distinct species .
The first of these is the 0 .
marginalis of Lamarck , known to him only by small Mediterranean specimens of no more than two millims. ( about 0'08 inch ) in diameter , but attaining on the Fijian reef a diameter of 0'2 inch , and presenting a much more characteristic aspect than is discernible in the dwarfed Mediterranean form .
The well-developed " cycloline " disks of this beautiful form of the " simple " type ( fig. I. , 1 ) , * See his " Paleontologia del Regno di Napoli , " part ii .
, in 'Atti dell'Accad .
Pontan , ' vol. vii .
, p. 178 , plate xvi .
, figs. 26-28 .
4 c 2 which I formerly* differentiated only by the singleness of its row of marginal pores ( fig. I. , 3 ) , I now find to be uniformly characterised by the marked eccentricity of their primordial chamber , and by the spiral direction of their early growth ( fig. I. , 2 ) , which I formerly supposed to be only occasional variations .
In fact , the first formed portion of these disks , like that of a young Orbiculinaadunca ( .
cit. , Plate XXVIII .
, fig. 2 ) , exactly resembles what a Peneropline shell would be , if its chambers , as they widen out , were to undergo division into chamberlets ; thus corresponding in every essential particular with the " orbiculine " stage of But while we have seen that this stage , in the last-named species , is preceded by a spiroloculine coil , representing a true " milioline " stage , it has no other predecessor in marginalis than what I formerly designated as the " nucleus , " consisting of a flask-shaped " primordial chamber , " from the neck of which proceeds a " circumambient chamber " that passes Fig. I.\#151 ; Orbitolites .
almost completely round it ( as in fig. II .
, 3 ) .
The morphological import of this arrangement becomes clearer when we compare the sarcodic bodies of the two types ; for it is then obvious that the " circumambient segment , " which springs from the " primordial segment , " and then , after making a single coil around it , gives off the first " peneropline " segment , really represents the multiple spiroloculine coil of 0 .
tenuissima ; this early generalised " milioline " stage being ( as it were ) abbreviated with the advance towards specialisation , as we see in numberless cases elsewhere .
The " Challenger " collection\#151 ; especially that of the 18 fathoms ' dredging\#151 ; includes a very large number of thin flat disks , attaining a diameter of about 0'32 inch , whose surface often presents rather an " engine-turned " than an annular aspect , and which are specially characterised by the possession of a complete double row of marginal Phil. Trans. , 1856 , p. 215 , Plate VII .
, fig. 14 .
DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
pores ( fig. II .
, 2 ) .
Both these peculiarities were noticed in my former Memoir ( pp. 215 , 221 ) , but were treated as merely varietal modifications .
I now find , however , that they accompany one another very constantly ; and that the type is so well differentiated by them as to be fully entitled to rank as a distinct species , which I designate 0 .
duplex* Notwithstanding the difference in the surface-aspect of its disks , and the doubling of their marginal pores , the sarcodic body of this species conforms in every essential particular to that of the preceding .
For each of its concentric annuli consists of a single cord ( fig. II .
, 4 , c c ' ) , that passes through a Fig ' .
II.\#151 ; Orbitoliduplex .
continuous circular gallery in the median plane of the disk , and carries a double series of columnar sub-segments ( act , b b ' ) , which occupy chamber lets ( fig. II .
, 1 ) that extend in vertical series to the two surfaces of the disk .
But each annular cord , instead of giving off ( as in O. marginalis ) a single stolon-process to initiate a sub-segment of the succeeding annulus , gives off two such processes between each pair of its own sub-segments ( fig. II .
, 4 , d d , d 'd ' ) ; and these have separate passages through the septal plane\#151 ; one above and the other below the annular canal , as shown in fig. II .
, 2 , * This species , as intimated in my former Memoir , appears to be the type described by Prof. Ehrenberg ( Abhandl .
der Konig .
Akad .
der Wissenschaften zu Berlin , 1839 ) as a Bryozoon , nnder the designation Amphisorus Hemprichii .
As his conception of the generic characters of this type was fundamentally erroneous , and as he gave no diagnosis of the single species he created , I have not thought it necessary to preserve his specific designation , opening on its external side in a double series .
This arrangement , as will presently appear , is the first step in the evolution of the " complex " form of the Orbitoline type .
Another advance upon 0 .
marginalisis seen in the more rapid approach of O. duplex to the cyclical plan , shown in the abbreviation of the early spiral stage .
For the " nucleus " of 0 .
duplex has but a slight eccentricity , and its circumambient segment ( fig. II .
, 3 , b , b ) , instead of putting forth but a single stolon-process , gives off several ; * so that , as each of these originates a new sub-segment , a crescentic row of sub-segments is at once constituted .
The row formed next in succession to this almost entirely encircles the milioline nucleus , and the third row generally completes the annulus , all further increase in the disk taking place on the cyclical plan .
In 0 .
duplex , therefore , we have such an abbreviation , not only of the " milioline " but also of the " orbiculine " stage , that the proper " orbitoline " type is attained at a relatively earlier period .
Fig. III.\#151 ; Orbitolites c We come , lastly , to that " complex " form\#151 ; the complanata of Lamarck\#151 ; in which the special peculiarities of the Orbitoline type are most fully displayed .
Its disks ( fig. III .
, 4 ) attain not only a much larger diameter , but a relatively greater thickness , than those of either of the " simple " species ; the annulations which mark their surfaces are as complete in their central as in their peripheral portions ; their superficial * Phil. Trans. , 1856 , Plate IV .
, fig. 13 , DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOL1TES TENUISSIMA .
chamber !
ets have an elongated form ( fig. III .
, 3 , a ) , and their margins exhibit , even in the smallest ( or youngest ) specimens , multiple series of pores ( fig. III .
, 1 ) , indicative of that complicated arrangement of the cavitary system which I described minutely in my former Memoir .
The meaning of that arrangement is best understood by an examination of the sarcodic body left after the decalcification of the disks , which are modelled , as it were , upon it .
The accompanying representation ( copied from Plate IV .
, fig. 4 of my Fig. IV .
Portion of sarcodic body of Orbitolites complanata:\#151 ; a a ' , b b ' , the upper and lower annuli of two concentric zones ; c c , the upper layer of superficial sub-segments , and d , the lower layer , connected with the annular cords of both zones ; e e and e'e ' , intermediate columnar sub-segments of the two zones .
former Memoir ) shows two annular cords , a , b ' , in each annular zone , instead of the single cord of 0 .
duplex ; and between these two cords is interposed a series of columnar sub-segments , e e , e ' e , whose bases and summits ( so to speak ) are brought into continuity by them .
It is of the interposed shell-substance that lodges these columnar sub-segments , that the thickness of the disk ( fig. III .
, 2 ) is chiefly made up ; and this is obviously in relation with the length of the columns .
Between each annular cord and the nearest surface of the disk , is a series of sub-segments , c c , dd , which occupy the elongated chamberlets whose partitions are marked externally by radial lines that cross the several annuli ( fig. III .
, 3 , a ) , as in tenuissima .
These partitions , however , being complete , the chamberlets have no lateral communication with each other ; neither do they communicate by means of radial passages with those of the annuli internal and external to them .
But each has a passage at either end through its own floor , which allows a stolon-process to pass from the sub-segment which it lodges to the annular cord beneath ; each sub-segment being , therefore , in connexion with the two annular cords , and forming , as it were , a bridge between one and another , as shown in fig. IV .
Except through the intermediation of these sub-segments , the annular cords of the successive zones have no connexion with each other ; but the intermediate columnar sub-segments of each annulus communicate with those of the next by oblique stolon-processes , that pass off alternately at regular intervals from the two sides of each column , traversing the annular septa ; and the orifices of the passages in the last-formed septum , through which these stolon-processes extend themselves outwards , are seen as multiple series of pores on the margin of the disk ( fig. III .
, 1 ) .
The vertical section of the calcareous disk given in fig. III .
, 2 , shows the separation of the two superficial planes of chamberlets hy the interposition of the shelly fabric that gives lodgment to the intermediate sarcodic columns ; while at 3 is shown diagrammatically , on a larger scale , the cavitary system of the disk , with the communication between its several parts .
At a are seen the chamberlets of the superficial planes , which are completely closed in when not abraded ; and these are shown in vertical section , above and below , at 6 , while at c are seen their floors , each having a pore at either end , which communicates with the annular canal beneath .
The annular canals are seen at d in vertical section , and at d ' and d " as laid open in horizontal section ; the former showing how they cross the tops of the cylindrical chamberlets of the intermediate stratum , and the latter ( taken a little nearer the surface ) showing the manner in which they open into the pores leading to the superficial chamberlets .
In the lower part of the figure , the intermediate stratum is traversed by two horizontal sections in slightly different planes , cutting across the cylindrical chamberlets , and showing the two series of oblique stolon-passages by which the chamberlets of successive annuli communicate with each other .
The nuclear mass which occupies the centre of the disk consists , as in duplex , of a " primordial segment , " surrounded by a " circumambient segment , " and this last ( fig. V. , b , b ) puts forth a set of stolon-processes from its entire periphery , each of Fig. V. which gives origin to a columnar sub-segment ; so that a complete annulus is at once constituted , thus establishing the cyclical plan of growth from the very first .
The collection of specimens of 0 .
complanata made on the Fiji reef contains disks of all sizes ranging from 0'04 inch to nearly 1 inch ; and even in the smallest of them , whose nucleus is surrounded by only two or three annuli , the immediate assumption of the completed plan is marked by the multiplicity of the series of marginal pores .
But while this may , I think , be unquestionably regarded as the typical condition of the species , the collection also includes an abundance of disks whose peripheral portion is characteristically " complex , " whilst their central portion is no less characteristically " simple ; " the passage from the one plan of growth to the DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORB1TOL1TES TENUISSlMA .
other taking place at no fixed stage , but being made sometimes earlier , sometimes later , for the most part gradually , but sometimes abruptly , as I indicated in my former Memoir ( SS 57 , 58 ) .
I can now trace out more distinctly than before the successive phases of this transition ; and can show how exactly the fundamental characters of and 0 .
duplex are reproduced in what may be called the childhood and youth of those " sub-typical " examples of 0 .
complanata , which , instead of beginning life on the " complex " plan , only attain the more elevated type in adult age .
These phases are exhibited in the following vertical section ( fig. YI .
) taken in the radial direction , Fig. VI .
which , though representing them somewhat diagramatically , is true to nature in every essential particular .
Of the successive zones traversed by the sectional plane between the circumambient chamber , c c , which passes round the primordial chamber , p , the first five , m , m1 , m2 , m3 , m4 , are formed exactly on the type of those of 0 .
marginalis ; each chamberlet being connected laterally with the other chamberlets of its own zone by a single annular canal , ac , and with the chamberlets of the zones internal and external to it by the radial stolon-passages , r These are succeeded by three zones , d , dl , d2 , formed upon the " duplex " plan ; each chamberlet having , as in the preceding case , but a single annular canal , ac , but communicating with the chamberlet of the annulus external to it by two oblique radial stolon-passages , as shown at r. Thus , then , if the growth of this disk had been checked at the fifth zone , m4 , its margin would have presented the single row of pores characteristic of marginalis ; and if at the eighth zone , d2 , it would have shown the double row characteristic of 0 .
duplex .
But in the next zone , e , the annular canals ac , ac , are duplicated , each of them sending off a stolon-passage into the next annulus .
In this and the succeeding zone , e ' , however , there is no separation between the superficial portions , s s ' , of the chamberlets , and their median portions , m m ; and this continuity , here transitory , shows itself as the typical character of the chamberlets of the fossil 0 .
complanata of the Paris basin .
But in the existing 0 .
complanata , a separation comes to be effected , as shown in the succeeding zones , f , f2 , by horizontal extensions of the septa i i , that are interposed between the median portions of the chamberlets , so as to form the floors of the superficial layers ; while at the same time there is a shifting of their relative positions , so that the superficial chamberlets , s s , s ' s ' , instead of lying over or under the median portions , m m , alternate with them , and are entirely MDCCCLXXX1TT .
4 ] ) DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOhlTES TENUISSIMA .
cut off from any other communication with them than that which , is afforded by the annular canals , with which each superficial chamberlet communicates at either end , by a passage which\#151 ; thus traced out\#151 ; is seen to be homologous with one of the double radial stolon-passages of 0 .
duplex , and therefore with the single radial passage of 0 .
marginalis .
The septa , i i , which divide the median portions , m m , of the successive annuli , are traversed by numerous passages , which , from the lateral obliquity of their direction ( fig. III .
, 3 , / , / ) , scarcely show themselves in a radial section , although they debouch at the edge of the last annulus as marginal pores , mp .
Notwithstanding this progressive complication in the structure of the shelly disks , there is no appearance of any corresponding specialisation in the character of the sarcode body : that of the typically " complex " form showing no other advance upon the very simplest , than is marked by the duplication of the sarcodic annuli , by the separation of the superficial from the intermediate columnar sub-segments , and by the multiplication of the oblique stolon-processes which connect these last with each other , this multiplication being obviously in relation with the increasing length of the interposed columns , which shows itself in the thickening of the disk .
The most marked increase in the complication of the animal body obviously consists in the duplication of the sarcodic annuli ; and this may be readily conceived as a longitudinal splitting of each cord into two , with a persistence of adhesion at intervals , so that the two semi-annuli , when carried apart from one another by the interposition of the intermediate stratum , remain connected by the vertical sarcodic columns which traverse that stratum .
The sub-segments which occupy the upper and under layers of surface-chamberlets are clearly shown , by their relation to the sarcodic annuli , not to be new productions , but to be homologous with the upper and under halves of the sub-segments that occupy the columnar chamberlets of the " simple " type ; that homology , however , being so masked in the typically " complex " form by the displacement they have undergone , that it could not have been certainly recognised , but for the occurrence of those subtypical forms which enable the passage from the most " simple " to the most " complex " to be continuously traced-out .
I have been unable , after the most careful examination of the sarcodic bodies of 0 .
duplex and 0 .
complanata , to discover any indication that this progressive complication in the disposition of their parts , is accompanied by any such structural modification as might lead to the suspicion of differentiation of function .
On the contrary , I find their substance to be everywhere of the same elementary character , consisting of a homogeneous protoplasm , that contains a large number of spherules of from -jVoVoth to g-^joth of an inch in diameter , sometimes crowded closely together , in other instances more dispersed , as shown in fig. 3 , Plate IV .
of my former Memoir ( Phil. Trans. , 1856 ) .
These spherules , when subjected to pressure , break up into a number of pellucid corpuscles , which are usually of from yi'oooth 1 ' Tooooth 'f an diameter .
The absence of these spherules is a marked feature of difference in the protoplasmic DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
body of 0 .
tenuissima ; on the other hand , I have not met in the higher types with those nuclear ( ?
) bodies which I have recognised in the abyssal species ( see p. 556 ) .
The homogeneousness of the entire sarcodic body , even in the largest and most complicated forms of 0 .
complanata , appears to be further indicated by the fact , that in specimens taken alive and preserved in spirit , the peripheral portion of the cavitary system is invariably found empty ; the sarcodic body , corrugated by the action of the spirit , being drawn together towards the central portion of the disk through very narrow passages of communication , which could only happen with a substance of which every part is free to move upon every other .
Looking , also , to the manner in which the entire organism receives its nourishment through the marginal pores , and to the entire absence of any special means for the distribution of that nourishment , I think it may be fairly assumed that such a protoplasmic circulation goes on throughout life , as must produce a continual change in the substance of every individual sub-segment .
Additional evidence of this homogeneousness is afforded by the two following facts : first , that in specimens which Jive under conditions peculiarly favourable to their enlargement , out-growths of irregular shape , but always possessing a regular internal structure , are put forth from any part of the disk ( see " Challenger " Report , Plate VII .
) ; and second , that , as in 0 .
tenuissima , every part seems equally capable of reproducing the entire disk on its characteristic plan .
Evolutionary History of the Orbitoline Type .
Thus by the combined study of 0 .
tenuissima and of sub-typical examples of 0 .
complanata , we are enabled to work out the whole evolutionary history of the Orbitoline type , from its simplest to its most complex form .
For there can , I think , be no reasonable doubt , that the succession here presented to us in the consecutive phases of two lives , has been the genetic history of this type ; which , originating in the simplest " jelly-speck " that could form a shelly chamber , first assumed the form of a spirally-coiled undivided tube ( Cornuspira , fig. VII .
, 1 ) ; then of a spire interrupted at intervals by imperfect partitions ( Spiroloculina , 2 ) ; then of a flattened spire crossed by complete septa traversed by stolon-passages 3 ) ; then of a progressively widening spire , whose chambers are divided into chamberlets 4 ) ; then of a chamberletted disk of one storey , commencing as an orbiculine spire , but subsequently increasing by annular additions ( Orbitolitestenuissima and 0 .
5 ) ; then of a chamberletted disk , whose origin still shows in its slight eccentricity a trace of the primordial spire , and whose single storey has , so to speak , two rows of windows ( Orbitolites duplex , 6 ) ; and lastly , of a " complex " disk , whose growth is cyclical from the beginning , and whose upper and lower superficial planes are separated by the interposition of an intermediate columnar structure between the duplicated annular stolons ( Orbitolites complanata , 7 ) .
This last would seem to be the culmination of the type , which , while attaining a considerable size , has never shown , so far as is at present known , any tendency to pass into a higher form .
Indeed , the typical forms of the existing 0 .
eomplanataare in one small particular ( as already shown , p. 565 ) more specialised than the fossil forms that were so remarkably abundant in the Middle Tertiary epoch .
It is a remarkable feature of this case , however , that all the forms through which the highest Orbitolinetype is thus shown to have passed , continue to hold their ground at the present time , as the characteristic representatives of less specialised groups .
There being every reason to regard Peneroplides , and as distinct races , propagating themselves genetically without any essential modifiFig* .
VII .
cation , it can scarcely be supposed that every one of them is a " potential sima .
So , again , as we find 0 .
marginalisand 0 .
duplex living and propagating under the very same conditions as 0 .
comp , I cannot regard these simple forms of the Orbitoline type , each of which has its characteristic plan of structure and limit of growth , as potentially " complex ; " notwithstanding the exact repetition of their plans in the early stages of certain examples of the higher type .
^ Foi I have never observed in the largest and best developed examples of 0 .
and 0 .
duplex the least tendency to assume the " complex " form ; on the other hand , I have frequently found their last formed annuli deficient in internal partitions , as if their productive power had exhausted itself .
It would seem , therefore , more just to DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
regard those sub-typical examples of 0 .
comwhich exhibit the transition I have described from the " simple " to the " complex " plan of structure , not as advanced forms of either of the two " simple " species , but as retarded forms of the highest ; and a clue to the conditions of that retardation can , I think , be found in the marked inferiority I have invariably observed in the size of the original nuclear mass of these individuals .
I drew attention in my former Memoir ( S 44 ) to the remarkable range of dimension which this mass exhibits , when a considerable number of specimens are examined ; and showed that the cavity of the " primordial " and " circumambient " chambers in one individual must have been more than a hundred times as large as that of another .
Now the result of the far more extended comparison of specimens which the " Challenger " collection has enabled me to make , is , that while the " nucleus " of the typical 0 .
complanata ( in which the cyclical plan of growth , and the " complex " structure , show themselves from the very first ) is always many times larger than that of either 0 .
marginalis or 0 .
duplex , the " nucleus " of its sub-typical forms always bears a very close accordance in size to that of 0 .
, which it resembles also in the one-sided pullulation of the first sub-segments from the circumambient segment , rendering the earlier zones more or less incomplete , and the position of the " nucleus " slightly eccentric .
Whether these forms genetically propagate themselves as a , perpetuating an earlier stage of the evolution of the perfected type , or are merely individuals which have begun life as " starvelings " that do not inherit the characteristic vigour of the type , I have no adequate ground for even surmising ; being only able to affirm this , that as there is no kind of constancy in the stage of growth at which the " simple " plan gives place to the " complex , " there is nothing to justify a specific differentiation of this sub-typical variety .
That its peculiarity may depend upon conditions less favourable to the full development of the type , seems to be indicated by the fact that , whilst the largest and most typical specimens of 0 .
complanata were found in the rock-pools on the summit of the Fiji reef , where they would have the highest temperature and the greatest abundance of food , the sub-typical specimens presented themselves chiefly in the collection made by the dredge at 18 fathoms ' depth .
Theory of Descent .
I propose , in the last place , briefly to examine the bearing of the remarkable case of " descent with modification , " which I have thus detailed , upon the general " Theory of Descent " and of the " Origin of Species .
" Those who find in " natural selection " or the " survival of the fittest " an all-sufficient explanation of the " origin of species , " seem to have entirely forgotten that before " natural selection " can operate , there must be a range of varietal forms to select from ; and that the fundamental question is ( as Mr. Darwin himself clearly saw , at any rate in his later years ) , what gives rise to variations f No exercise of " natural selection " could produce the successive changes presented in the evolutionary history of the typical Orbitolites , from to from Spiroloculina to Peneroplis , from Peneroplis to from Orbiculina to the " simple " forms of Orbitolites , and from the " simple " to the " complex " forms of the last-named type .
And as all these earlier forms still flourish under conditions which ( so far as can be ascertained ) are precisely the same , there is no ground to believe that any one of them is better fitted to survive than another .
They all imbibe their nourishment in the same mode ; and no one type has more power of going in search of it than another .
That they are all dependent on essentially the same conditions of temperature and depth of water , is shown by their occurrence in the same marine areas .
That they all equally serve as food to larger Marine Animals , can scarcely be doubted ; and it is hardly conceivable that any of their devourers would discriminate ( for example ) between the disks of a large 0 .
a middle-sized 0 .
duplex , and a small 0 .
complanata , which even the trained eye of the Naturalist cannot distinguish without the assistance of a magnifying-glass .
To me , therefore , it appears that the doctrine of " natural selection " can give no account of either the origin or the perpetuation of those several types of Foraminiferal structure which form the ascending series that culminates in Orbitolites complanata .
On the other hand , there seems traceable throughout that series a plan so definite and obvious , as to exclude the notion of " casual " or " aimless " variation .
Between the simple spirally-coiled sarcodic cord of a young , and the discoidal body of an Orbitolite , with its thousands of sub-segments disposed with the most perfect symmetry , and connected together in most regular and uniform modes , who ( in the absence of the intervening links ) would have suspected any genetic relation\#151 ; who would have ventured to construct a pedigree ?
And yet we find the gradations from the one to the other to be not only most complete , but often significant of further progress ; many of the changes being such as seem to have no meaning except as anticipations of greater changes to come .
Thus , the slight constrictions that show themselves in the first spiral coil of 0 .
tenuissima ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 ) are what constitute the essential difference between the spire of Cornuspira and that of Spiroloculina ; marking an imperfect septal division of the spire into chambers , which cannot be conceived to affect in any way the physiological condition of the contained animal , but which foreshadows the complete septal division that marks the assumption of the Peneropline stage .
Again , the incipient widening-out of the body , previously to the formation of the first complete septum , prepares the way for that great lateral extension which characterises the next or Orbiculine stage ; this extension being obviously related , on the one hand , to the division of the chamber-segments of the body into chamberletted sub-segments , and , on the other , to the extension of the zonal chambers round the " nucleus , " so as to complete them into annuli , from which all subsequent increase shall take place on the cyclical plan .
In 0 .
marginalis , the first spiral stage is abbreviated by the drawing-together DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
.571 ( as it were ) of the " spiroloculine " coil into a single Milioline turn of greater thickness ; but the Orbiculine or second spiral stage is fully retained .
In 0 .
duplex , the abbreviated Milioline centre is still retained , but the succeeding Orbiculine spiral is almost entirely dropped out , quickly giving place to the cyclical plan .
And in the typical 0 .
complanata the Milioline centre is immediately surrounded by a complete annulus , so that nothing remains of the original spire save the one turn of the circumambient segment .
So , in the passage from the " simple " to the " complex " type , we have a remarkable anticipatory step in 0 .
duplex , which can scarcely be supposed itself to derive any advantage from the substitution of a double for a single row of communications between the annuli , since 0 .
marginalisflourishes equally well with its single row ; but which forms , so to speak , a stepping-stone to a higher grade .
Everything in this history , then , shows well-marked progressive tendency along a definite line towards a highly specialised type of structure in the Calcareous fabric ; and this without any corresponding departure from the original homogeneity of the Animal body which forms that fabric .
And as being , so far as I know , altogether unique in these peculiarities , I venture to offer this study of a humble protoplasmic organism , brought up from an ocean-depth of nearly two miles , to the consideration of those who believe with Sir James Paget , that " the highest laws of our [ biological ] science are expressed in the simplest terms in the lives of the lowest orders of Creation .
" Explanations of Plates .
PLATE 37 .
Structure of Calcareous Disk of Orbitolites Fig. 1 .
Surface of young disk , showing its eccentric spiroloculine " nucleus , " giving origin to successive zones of orbiculine chamberlets , which gradually increase in breadth with the opening-out of the spire , until they extend completely round the nucleus ; after which the successive additions are made on the cyclical plan , as concentric annuli .
Magnified 25 diameters .
Fig. 2 .
A portion of three peripheral annuli , enlarged to 64 diameters , and partially laid open by the removal of the superficial lamella , so as to show the two annular septa , aa , bb , the chamberlets , c , separated by radial partitions , and the annular gallery , d , into which all the chamberlets open at their peripheral extremities .
fig. 3 .
Vertical section of three annuli of the disk , taken in the radial direction , so as to traverse the chamberlets lengthways ; a , a , junctions of two annuli , with DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUISSIMA .
the annuli external to them ; b , b , b , annular galleries traversing the septa between the chamberlets .
At a , , are seen the openings through which the sarcodic cords that occupy the annular galleries send radial extensions into the chamberlets of the succeeding annuli .
Magnified 64 diameters .
Fig. 4 .
Internal aspect of a small portion of an annulus detached by fracture ; showing the entrances to the chamberlets of that annulus through the septal plane .
Magnified 64 diameters .
Fig. 5 .
External or peripheral aspect of a portion of a marginal annulus , showing the passages through its septal plane , a , s marginal pores elongated in the plane of the disk .
Magnified 64 diameters .
Fig. 6 .
Portion of a disk , whose remainder , with the " nucleus , " has been lost by injury previously to the formation of the last two annuli , which have extended themselves along the fractured margin , and into the nuclear space .
Magnified 15 diameters .
Fig. 7 .
Incipient production of an entirely new disk , with regularly concentric annuli , from a fragment of the peripheral portion of an old one .
Magnified 15 diameters .
PLATE 38 .
Structure of Sarcodic Body and Calcareous Disk of Fig. 1 .
Sarcodic body of the central portion of the disk ; showing the primordial segment giving off the spiroloculine coil , the sixth turn of which , , begins to open out into a peneropline form , afterwards becoming divided into rows of orbiculine sub-segments , which are connected together laterally by the continuity of the sarcodic body through the gallery at the outer end of each row , and radially by the stolon-processes that pass through the septal passages , from the gallery of the inner row into the chamberlets of the outer .
Nuclear ( ?
) corpuscles are seen irregularly distributed through the sarcodic substance .
Magnified 75 diameters .
Fig. 2 .
Nuclear ( ?
) bodies , as seen under a power of 450 diameters .
Fig. 3 .
Section of first-formed portion of the disk , laying open the primordial chamber , a , and the spiroloculine chambers , partially divided as at , which coil round it .
Magnified 125 diameters .
Fig. 4 .
Portion of the sarcodic body shown in fig. 1 , enlarged to 125 diameters , to show the distribution of the nuclear ( ?
) corpuscles :\#151 ; a , expanded extremity of the last spiroloculine coil ; b , b , b ' , b ' , portions of preceding coils , crowded with nuclear ( ?
) corpuscles ; c , orbiculine sub-segment , with five corpuscles ; d , d , d , d , orbiculine sub-segments , each with one or with two corpuscles .
Fig. 5 .
Central portion of the calcareous disk , as seen by transmitted light ; \#151 ; a , expanded chamber formed by the termination of the spiroloculine coil , and DR. W. B. CARPENTER ON ORBITOLITES TENUTSSIMA .
closed-in by a peneropline septum traversed by four passages ; b , second chamber , divided by radial partition into orbiculine chamberlets ; c , third chamber , not here separated from the second by a septum , and having only-one radial partition ; d , d , fourth chamber , having at d ' , d ' , lateral extensions which begin to enclose the spiroloculine coil ; e , e , fifth chamber , with lateral extensions , e , e , proceeding still further backwards ; these chambers , and those that succeed them , divided by radial partitions into orbiculine chamberlets .
Magnified 75 diameters .
Phil .Trans .
1883 .
Plate 37 UpenUr .
PjW\#171 ; \#171 ; t *** 11th ad .
nut .
West Newman Sc. C ?
imp Bill Sflll pllll \#171 ; j gjgHp ORB ITO LITES TENUISSIMA .
Carpenter .
Phil. Trans. 1883 .
Plate 38 .
\#187 ; W\#171 ; Bt Jr 11th .
acLnat .
^VVest , .TSTewnaa n \amp ; C ?
irtaxp ORBITOLITES TEN UISSIMA .

