May 1 , 1851 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " An account of two cases in which an Ovule , or its remains , was discovered after death in the Fallopian tube of the unimpregnated human female , during the period of Menstruation .
" By H. Letheby , M.B. Communicated by W. B. Curling , Esq. , F.R.S. Received Feb. 20,1851 .
At the commencement of the paper the author refers to the opinions of Drs. Power , Lee , Paterson , Barry , Girdwood , and Wharton Jones of this country , and also to those of MM .
Valentin , Negrier , Pouchet , Gendrin , Raciborski , and Bischoff on the continent , respecting the supposed nature of the physiological phenomena manifested during the peirod of menstruation ; and he mentions the law of Bischoff , namely , that " ( the ova formed in the ovaries of the females of all malmmiferous animals , incl(uding the human female , undergo a periodical maturation and exclusion quite independently of the influence of the male seminal fluid .
At these periods , known as those of ' heat ' or ' the rut ' in quadrupeds , and ' menstruation ' in the human female , the ova which have become mature , disengage themselves from the ovary and are extruded .
If the union of the sexes takes place at this period , the ovum is fecundated by the direct action of the semen upon it , but if no union of the sexes occurs , the ovum is nevertheless evolved from the ovary , and enters the Fallopian tube where it perishes .
" He states , however , that the arguments which have been advanced in support of this opinion in respect of the human female , are entirely of an analogical character ; and that although the ovaries of women who have died during the menstrual period have been frequently examined , and Graafian follicles found in a recently ruptured state , yet the discovery of the liberated ovule had not , so far as the author was aware , ever been detected .
The importance of his cases rests upon three grounds , namely , --st , the circums ; tances under which the women had died ; 2ndly , the finding of recently ruptured Graafian follicles ; and Srdly , the discovery of the ovule and its remains in the fluid matter of the Fallopian tubes .
In the first of the cases recorded , the woman died during a menstrual period .
She had been an inmate of the London Hospital for twenty-four days before her death , where she was closely watched day and night by a nurse , in consequence of her having attempted self-destruction by cutting her throat twenty-nine days before her death .
An examination of the body showed that the pelvic viscera were much congested ; that the uterus was considerably enlarged ; that the vagina contained a sero-sanguineous fluid ; and that the hymen was unruptured .
The ovaries were covered with stellate fissures , or cicatrices ; and at one part of the left organ there was a purple spot having a ragged hole in its centre .
By means of an incision into the gland through this spot , it was found that the opening led into a small cavity which was surrounded at its lower part by a dense tissue , infiltrated with dark coagulated blood ( reference was here made to the preparation which shows the cavity and its coagulum ) .
After macerating in spirit for a short time , it was noticed that the clot consisted of four parts , which the author described .
In other parts of the ovary several false corpora lutea , in different stages of decline , were found .
The Fallopian tubes were highly congested , and the cavities of the tubes were filled with a bloody mucus .
The left one contained at about one inch from its fimbriated end , a small vesicular body , which was , in the author 's opinion , an ovule ; for it consisted of nucleated cells and oil-globules .
The fluid matters of the uterus and Fallopian tubes were made up of blooddiscs , cylindrical epithelium , granular corpuscles , and a few spindleshaped bodies .
The second case was that of a girl who had died at St. Luke 's Hospital , where the supervision of the patient was quite as strict as that in the last case .
In this instance the anatomical features were precisely like the preceding .
The right Fallopian tube contained a globular body similar to that found in the left on the former occasion .
This globular body , on being crushed between two pieces of glass and examined under the microscope , was found to consist externally of a mass of nucleated cells , the remains of the tunica granulosa , and of a transparent ring , enclosing an opake granular mass , and a highly pellucid spot .
The author considered that this body was the liberated ovule , and the influence of chemical reagents served to support his opinion .
An examination of the corpora lutea found in both cases , showed that they consisted of large granular corpuscles and oil-globules .
The conclusions arrived at by the author were as follows:1 .
That ovules escape from the ovaries of women during the period of menstruation ; and that their escape is a spontaneous act , taking place quite independently of sexual intercourse .
2 .
That immediately before , or else consentaneous with , the escape of an ovule , the whole substance of the Graafian follicle becomes charged with effused blood ; and that a sort of fatty degeneration of the effused matter soon afterwards takes place .
3 .
That the mere presence of a yellow body containing a clot in the ovary , is not by any means a certain sign of recent impregnation .
4 .
That a sanguineous fluid is poured out over the whole mucous tract of the generative system during the catamenial period .
5 .
That the results of the observation tend to confirm the opinions entertained by Wagner , Bischoff , Barry , and Wharton Jones , concerning the membranous nature of that portion of the ovule known as the zona pellucida .
6 .
That the oil-globules of the yelk are either enclosed in a distinct membrane , or else that a structureless solid material pervades the entire substance of the vitelline body , and so binds the several component elements of it together .
7 .
That the recognition of the germinal vesicle removes some doubts concerning its appearance and position in the germ-mass .

