On the Effects produced in the Rates of Chronometers by the Proximity of Masses of Iron .
By Peter Barlow , Esq. of the Royal Military Academy .
Communicated by John Barrow , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 28 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 361 .
] It having been ascertained that during Captain Buchan 's voyage to the arctic regions , in 1818 , the rates of chronometers differed on board and on shore , and this change having been attributed by Mr. Fisher to the iron of the vessel , the author felt desirous of examining into the effects of the proximity of masses of iron upon chronometers ' rates , and of determining their causes .
In this communication he details the results of a variety of experiments and observations relative to the effects of iron on chronometers placed under different circumstances in its vicinity ; whence he concludes , that it undoubtedly does alter their rates , but that it does not necessarily accelerate them , as suggested by Mr. Fisher ; on the contrary , in Mr. Barlow 's experiments , it was generally productive of retardation , much depending upon the direction of the balance in respect to the iron ; and although the law of this influence has not been ascertained , it is suggested as a practical conclusion , that on ship-board care should be taken to keep chronometers out of the vicinity of any conw siderable mass or surface of iron ; and as much of the iron of a ship is concealed , Mr. Barlow thinks the best way of ascertaining the best situation for a chronometer would be to set down a compass in any place designed for it , and to observe and compare the direction of a needle with that of the azimuthal compass on deck , while the vessel is on different tacks ; and if the disagreement between the two be very considerable , another place should be chosen .
Lastly , as the power of the iron to disturb the chronometer resides on the surface ( as in the instance of the compass ) , and as we know generally the distance and direction of a plate , such that its power may be equal to the mean action of the iron of the vessel , we are thence able to ascertain , before a chronometer is sent on board , whether the effect of the ship 's iron will be to accelerate or retard its going .

