]\gt ; XV .
On Class of Invariants .
JOHN C. MALET , M.A. , Professor of IUathematics , 's College , Cork .
Communicated by Professor CAYLEY , LL. D. , F.R. Received December 14 , \mdash ; Read December 22 , 1881 .
I HAVE not seen it noticed by any mathematician that in the theory of Linear Differential Equations there are two important classes of functions of the coefficients which have remarkable analogies to the invariants of Algebraic Binary Quantics ; consequently I venture to call attention to their existence and also to give examples of their application in the present paper .
For convenience I write the equation with binomial coefficients thus ( 1 ) where of course , \amp ; c. , are functions of only .
If now we remove the coefficient of by changing to the equation , wanting the second term , may be written , .
( 2 ) where we have *Since the publication of the abstract of this paper the Rev. R. HABLEY has mentioned to me that the first class of functions treated of here have been already investigated by Sir COCKLE ; having consulted the memoirs I was referred to by Mr. HARLET , I think little similarity will be found between Sir JAIIES COCKLE'S results and mine .
, -J .
C. M. Now , I and the remaining coefficients of equation ( 2 ) are in a certain sense invariants of the original equation ( 1 ) , for they remain unaltered if in equation ( 1 ) we change to , where is any function of , and then divide by so as to make the coefficient of unity ; thus writing the equation so transformed .
( 3 ) and for convenience writing , , \amp ; c. , we find Hence also from which we easily prove and In a similar manner we find The theorem proved in these cases may be easily shown to be generally true , as follows : from equation ( 3 ) we remove the second term by the substitution of for it is evident the result must be identical with ( 2 ) ; but the coefficients of the resulting equation are the same furlctions of , \amp ; c. , as the coefficients of ( 2 ) are of , \amp ; c. , hence the theorem is proved .
I proceed now to some particular applications of the general theorem .
The Here we have the invariant or MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
Let us now seek the condition that the two solutions of the equation .
and should be connected by the relation , which relation , since it depends only on the ratios of and , must be expressible in terms of the invariant H. If in the equation we change to the solutions of the resulting equation will be and ; hence if the equation is we have remembering now that the required condition is To solve the equation in this case we have Hence and the complete solution is where A and are arbitrary constants .
We may remark also , as is at once obvious , that the condition is the eliminant of the equations and If we seek the mere general condition that the solutions should be connected by the relation , where is some given function of , transforming as before by the substitution of for the resulting equation must have for solutions and , hence we have and therefore or substituting the value of we get the required condition .
To solve the equation in this case , remembering that , we at once see that is the solution of the equation from which and the complete solution is where A and are constants .
If now in equation ( 4 ) we suppose that is not known , replacing by we see the solution of the equation ( 5 ) is where are arbitrary constants and the solutions of the linear equation Again it appears that if satisfies equation ( 5 ) the complete solution of it is Let us now consider the two equations and MR. J. .
MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
and let us seek the condition that the two solutions of the first equation , and should be connected with the two solutions of the second , and , by the relation Let be the common value of these fractions , then referring to equation ( 4 ) we have at once the required condition , viz. : It may be remarked that if does not equal but a constant , say , the complete solution of the equation is The cubic .
Let us now consider the equation of the third order we have two invariants and ; and the equation becomes by removing the second term Let us now consider what relation must exist between and in order that two solutions of the equation should be connected by the relation Transform the cubic by substituting for and let the resulting equation be Since this equation is satisfied by and also by we have at once and hence from which we find Substituting the value of derived ffom this equation in and reducing we find our required condition . . . . .
( 6 ) This condition , as is seen , is the eliminant of the equations and To solve the equation when condition ( 6 ) is true .
First consider the equation wit } the second term removed , and we have to find the equations of which equations be a common solution , as follows at once from the conditions .
Thence we easily find and therefore These values of and are to be multiplied by to get the corresponding solutions of the cubic when the second term is not removed .
To get the third solution we have which gives , remembering the relation thence we easily find the compIete solution of the original cubic where , and are arbitrary constants .
MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF NVARIANTS .
If we have the two conditions and , then and the complete solution is expresses the condition that should be a solution of the equation .
If we wish to find the conditions necessary that the following relations should exist between the solutions of the cubic where and are known functions of ; change as before the cubic by substituting for and let it become we must evidently have , hence we have we have also Now if we let and we have , , and the conditions sought are ( 7 ) and , . . . .
( 8 ) To solve the equation in this case we have thence must be the solution of the equation from which we have or and therefore the complete solution of the cubic is If we make and then eliminate between equations ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) we should evidently obtam the condition necessary that the relation should exist .
I have , however , obtained the condition in a much more simple manner , and found it to be which result I give further on in the present paper .
Let us now consider the more general problem ; to determine the relation between the coefficients of the cubic in order that two solutions should be connected by the relation where is a given function of As before , change to , and the equation must become of the form vanishing .
We have then ( 9 ) Also ( 10 ) ( 11 ) and the problem is to eliminate and from these equations .
If we substitute in ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) the value of found from ( 9 ) , we find they can be written in the forms MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
where we have ( 12 ) Substituting this value of in and reducing we find for the required condition \mdash ; .
( 13 ) If vanishes or , A being a constant , equation ( 13 ) is derived from ( 6 ) by changing and to and respectively .
If we regard as unknown , equal say , equation ( 12 ) is the differential equation of the fifth order , of which the complete solution is where are solutions of the equation and arbitrary constants .
To solve the cubic when condition ( 13 ) holds .
From equations ( 9 ) and 12 we find at once and in terms of , let their values be respectively and we have then Now since we have therefore To determine , let and we have to determine but also from which we easily find therefore and the complete solution of the cubic is in the case we are remembering that an arbitrary constant is implied in each integration .
The Consider now the equation of the fourth order we have three invariants , and I , and the equation with its second term removed becomes If we seek the condition that two solutions of the equation should be connected by the relation ?
, transforming the equation by changing to , the result must be of the form Hence we have and the condition required is the result of eliminating and from these equations .
MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
The required result is also the eliminant of the equations and as is evident .
Having obtained the result in a very cumbersome form only I do not give it , but at once on to cases where two or three conditions subsist between the solutions of the quartic .
Let us first consider the case where changing to the resulting equation must be of the form Hence we have from which one of the required conditions is then given by equation ( 6 ) , and the second is easily found to be To solve the equation , we find at once as in the case of the equation of the third order and is the solution of the equation multiplied by Hence remembering the value of , we get for the complete solution of the quartic If then we have and the complete solution is It is obvious that when , and I instead of being each equal to are each equal to a given constant the equation can be at once solved .
If we seek the conditions for where , , are given functions of ; then changing to if the resulting equation be written we have from which equations we find are terms of .
Let these values be , , and , and the required conditions are To find the solution in this case , we have Hence Now if we let we find from the previous equations MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
and therefore we have for the complete solution If are constants determined from the equations previously given ; in fact we easily find , and I are constants , and the solution is II .
In addition to the class of invariants of Linear Differential Equations which I have discussed in the first part of this paper , there is also another class worth noticing , namely , functions of the coefficients of the equation which remain unaltered when the independent variable is changed .
I propose now to consider these functions .
The quadratic .
If we take the equation ( 14 ) and let , the new equation is where ' From these values of and we easily find the identity Hence we see that is an invariant of this kind of the equation of the second order .
To arrive at this invariant directly , let us suppose that the second term is removed from the equation by the change of the independent variable ; we have then , supposing the transformed equation to be ' Hence therefore from which it is evident that remains the same when the independent variable is changed .
I shall denote this invariant by the letter ; and I now propose to give some examples of its use .
Let us seek to detelmine what relation among the coefficients of the equation expresses the condition that the two solutions of equation ( 14 ) and should be connected by the equation Transform the independent variable so that shall be a solution of the new equation , then must also be a solution .
Let the new equation be and we have from which we find , but hence the required condition is or MR. .
C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
76.5 to solve the equation in this case , we have ' or from which and the complete solution is where A and are arbitrary constants .
Again , let us seek the condition for , transforming as before so that we find now that the coefficients of the transformed equation are connected by the relations therefore and we have or for the condition .
In this case we find as before the solution to be More generally if we have , using the same transformation as before ; the following equations connecting the coefficients of the transformed equation from which and we find as before for th : required condition the solution being this investigation fails , as it should , when As another example let us suppose and connected by any relation ; for convenience take and let us seek to determine how the coefficients of the equation are related , and also its solution .
Transforming as before we have from which from this we have say hence and the complete solution of the equation is to determine the condition between and we have substituting for in the left-hand side of this equation we get the required result .
It is to be remarked that is an invariant , since if the substitution removes the second term from the equation we have where has the same meaning as before .
From the equation which expresses the condition we can derive the linear differential equation of the third order , of which the solution is where , and are al.bitrary constants .
MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
As I afterwards make use of this equation I shall here give a full investigation of it .
The condition , it is easily seen may be written ( 15 ) where is the invariant of the first kind previously considered .
If now in the equation we change to we find the equation where Substituting this value of for in condition ( 15 ) and reducing we get ( A ) this differential equation in is evidently the required equation .
It is to be remarked that if we remove the second term from this equation it becomes ( B ) The cubic .
Let us now consider the equation of the third order Substituting for we get where ' Now let from which from which equations two distinct invariants , of the second kind , of the cubic may be found , thus therefore Hence is an invariant which I shall call Again or Hence we have and we have another invariant which I shall call We have also , calling therefore from which and we have the invariant say . .
J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
, however , is not a distinct invariant , since it is evident from the method of forming it that it can be expressed in terms of and It is to be remarked that if I is any invariant of the cubic , of the kind we are considering , then and are also invariants of the same kind , as follows at once from the relation or Let us now seek the condition that two solutions of the cubic , should be con1lected by the relation Transform the equation so that shall be a solution and let it become and we have from which for and in the equations then letting and reducing we get ( 16 ) from which equations we are to eliminate , we get . . . . . . . . .
( 17 ) Now differentiating with regard to and then substituting for from ( 16 ) we find ( 18 ) Hence the required result is the eliminant of the two cubic equations ( 17 ) and ( 18 ) .
I do not give here the expanded result thus obtained , as I have arrived at it in a more compact form , as follows : Remove the second term , from the cubic we are considering , by change of the independent variable , and let the result be Suppose now that , and let be the linear equation of which the solutions are and is evident then that the cubic may be written in the form Since this equation is evidently satisfied by and , and we can determine so that any other function of shall satisfy it .
Comparing coefficients we find we have also in consequence of the given condition From these we have Hence we easily derive which is the required result expressed in terms of the invariants and To write the result in terms of and , we have from which we get MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
and therefore Hence letting Condition ( 19 ) may be written in terms of the coefficients of the cubic without its second term being removed as follows : Having expressed and as functions of as above , the cubic may in this case be solved as follows : We have from previous results the solutions of where and are connected th relation Hence two solutions of the cubic are and the complete solution may then be found .
If we seek the conditlons for transform so that may become , and as before we have from which we find three constants , say .
Hence the required conditions are and and the solution is easily found to be More generally let us seek the conditions that and ] be any given functions of Write for convenience , then transforming as before we have Now from these equations we find Hence from the relation we find where is a known function , and the complete solution of the cubic is To find the required conditions we have only to substitute for in the left-hand sides of equations being found in telms of from equations previously given .
I proceed now to ider an invariant of the cubic which is particularly worth noticing .
Beferring to the values of and given before , we find ( say ) and is the condition that the solutions of the equation of the third order should be connected by the relation ; as follows .
Let , and let the equation of which the solutions are and be MR. J. O. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVARIANTS .
Hence referring to equation ( A ) we see that may be expressed in the form therefore From these equations eliminatin we get or as the required condition .
The relation .
involving only the ratios of the solutions must be also expressible in terms of the invariants of the first kind considered in this paper , and in fact we find where and have the same meaning as before .
To arrive directly at this condition in terms of and , we see on referring to ( B ) that the cubic with the second term removed by the substitution for of , viz. , can be written in the form where Therefore and eliminating we find the required result .
Hence the condition may be expressed in either of the forms or we have in fact the relation We see also that in this case the solution of the cubic is reduced to that of the quadratic the solutions of which are and The quartic .
To find the invariants of the seoond kind of the equation of the fourth order let us suppose the second term lemoved by the substitution , then writing the result in the form we find ( ) From the first of these equations we have therefore by substitution in ( a ) we find MR. J. C. MALET ON A CLASS OF INVABIANTS .
Hence we have or say is an invariant of the quartic of the kind we are considering .
Again by differentiating the equation we get substituting in ( ) we hence we see that is an invariant , which I shall call We easily find a third invariant from the equations and namely , which may be called By aid of the invariants we can solve problems with respect to the quartic which are analogous to those already treated of in the case of the cubic .
As an example , let the solutions be related by the equations then transforming so that shall be we find a constant , a constant , a constant ; and in this case the solution is where @mnp

