t16 .
) Tab. X. figure 3 , represents the plumb line and its frame f it is about 5 feet long , and suspended to the roof of the observatory by the two hooks a , a. AB is a hollow brass tuDe , to protect the plumb line from the wind the line or wire is fixed at the top near b , and sustains the plumrllet in a glass of water at C. b and c , are two adjusting screws , moving a sliding plate at right angular directions , to which is fixed the upper end of the plumb line .
d is a screw , that by means of a pinion moves a rack e , e , to depress or raise the glass of water , and thereby support the plummet , ( when this apparatus is moved about from one side of the -instrument to the other ) and prevent the wirebeing fbroken , andS by depressing it , to enable the plummet to play free , when it is to be used X At A and B -are twoapertures , at 4 feet distanceS corresponding with the two microscopes , covered orl the backside by pieces of transparent ivory , in order to exhibit an agreeable field of view , to observe the coincidence of the plumb line with the cross wires in the microscopes .
( 17 .
) I-n Tab. XI .
is seen a section of the building in which this instrument is placed .
As the equatorial is a machine calculated to observe the heavenly bodies in every part of the hemisphereS so it became necessary to construct a chamber , with windows opening to every quarterS north , east , svestx aladsouth ; and to any degree of elevation above the horizon .
; With this view I erected a building , or small turret , withlin my hfouse ) at Shuckburgh , in Warwickshire see Tab XI .
where a , b , c , d , represent a section of this room ?
being about 52 feet square , containing the equatorial AB , resting ol1 its supporters C D. ^ S ?
o , p , r. q , tX is a hollow conical toof$ moveable round its axis upon six frictisn rollers ?
of about 4 inches in diameter , two of which are seen at s and t. The base of this cone consists-of an iron ring , about &gt; 11 feet in diameter , anc1 g inches wide , the upper part of the cone at s , is termilaated by another iron ring 2feet diameter e and these are connected by 12 iron ribs , or rafters , in the direction of s , s. Over these rafters lie two coats of extremely thin deal planksx not more t han 8I inch in thickness each cressing each other in transverse directions of the grain of the wood , and over these a covering of copper , of about the thickness of &gt; a shilling .
Over the copper , oll the outsiden arez three good coats of white paint , and the wood withirlside is lined with stout canvas , well painted also ; so that the whole roof is as moveable and as light as possibles notluore than 200 or 3001b weight , and withal very strong .
At s and sS is an aperture in the roof , ofabout one footwide , which is opened or covered , suitably to the occasion by the two doors 'n p. r is another door , ( in the plate ) operl S by means of these three doorsn all opened very reacli]y by iron rods withirlside ; a prospect is given of the heavens from : the horizon to the zenith , and even to -o ' beyond it .
q is arlother aperture-about g inches long and 4 widep covered occasionally by a slautts r. * As I flatter myself that I have now executed what the very celebrated Abteo BOSCOVICH seems to have had in tiew , in the x4th opusculum of his fourth volume of -Operv pertinenfia ad Astronomiam , Cc .
I cannot restrain myself from citing theh passage , wherein , after desclibing the use of the sntall equatorial , he says ; ' Appare\#163 ; igitur egregius usus machinx etiam mobilis .
Verum Illachina parallactica metallica s cum circulo , et semicirculo , satis magrlis , ac telescopio acromatico , et satis bono mi &lt; \#162 ; crometro fiiari , collocata firmiter in turri habente tectum mobile esset instru-nenturn\#162 ; usus immensi et expeditissilni , ac irlcredibilis ad astronomiam cunsl maxim fiructt\#162 ; excolendam atilitatis .
' p. 3o .
This little window affords a constant view of the pole star in its whole revolution , if the sky be clear , and consequently an opporturlity of comparing a transit and altitude of any star to the southward directly with it7 and , by moving the conical roof roundX any part of the sky may be exposed to the telescope .
The rollers X s , t , roll upon a : surface of lead , melted and cast into acircular groove in the timbers at EE , and planed truly horizontalX Besides the apertures already described in the roof the room is enlightened by two windows to the south-east , and north-west ; and also bytwo oYal lights in the side of the cone , nearly east and west and by a third in the zenith at r. v , w , is a platfortn on the outside of the Gones covered with lead ; of use iil examining the roof } and cleansing it intime of snow , &amp;c. y and x are iron balusters , very necessary on such occasions , with the iron rait at top at x placed obliquely , i-n a plane t-ending to the centre of the instrumentn in order that the least possible light from any object may at any time be lost to the object glass .
C is one of the iron bars passing through the wallof the building , fixed by a collar and nut on the outside , and resisting the pressure of theinstrument , whose weight , without the supporterss is full oolb .
against the support I ) .
e , f 1 , and gn h , -n , are two of the side walls of the building rising 4o feet:above the ground and serving as bvtments to the arch 1 , m , n ?
which is farther strengthened by a square frameS of heart of cake timberf 9inches by 6 inches , let into the wall at,6 held togethertby iron boltsf and going round the building .
* Besides these rollers , whose axes are horizontal , there are 3 or 4 other rollers , upon a vert ; cal axis , exterior to , and bearing against the ring that constitutes the base of the cone ; by this means they keep the -centre of its motion always in the same place .
This arch is filIed with solid masonry $ to the height i ?
tS intQ which , as upon a plane brick floor , the irorframes that support the instrument are firmly fixed with plaster and lead at , 2n and 3 ? ?
4 and hence the instrument seems as steady as 1lpon a rock .
b , dn is a ; boarded floor that has n\#162 ; connection whatever with the instrument , or its supportersO un u , are the ttAto mahogany cases that cover up the apertures in the floor , and serve as bases to the supporters C and 99 but do-not touch the iron frames within 8 inch ; so that anyyielding of the floor , b , d , by passing to and fro thereong communicates noY motion whatever to the instrument .
( 18 .
) TQthenorth-east wallf c , d , by means of timberlaid into it and long screws , i &gt; s firmly fixed the clock ors sidereal regulatorn but so as to have no communication with the floor .
As it is peculiar in ivts construction , it may de serve some notice .
Whereas most astronomical clocks show sidereal time in hours and minutesn , which is afterwardsS in the ; course of computation , reduced to degrees and minates ; this-t maclline shows .the degree and : minute of the equator , that is upon the meridian at any given instant , direct:ltr without reduction .
rrhis is of considerable convenience in obseriations , out of the meridianS with an equatoria1 instrument ; inasmuchS as the equatorial circle and the clock7 by these means , speak theE ... ... .
* The br.icks of this arch were laid dry .
, .
and thengrout ; consisting of gra sel and hot lime ; waspoured uI ?
on them ; .
when the arch had stood twob yearss the haunches were filled .
up with bricks , laid.in mortar. .
I mention these circumstances .
as.attention to them may be of use upon a similar occasioxl , wherlever ; it shall be no cessaryUto erect an arch .
bearing so great .
: a.weight,..viz .
rlear 3o tons } upon such slightA buttressesv .
* ?
t Prhe walls05 this room do not correspond with the cardinal points ; the secton here given having an-aspect 53 ' S. east .
same language .
For : this purpose the vibrations of the pen dululn are only 23of a common pendulum , = lo " of space ; and the index that is carried round immediately by the pen dulum , viz. on the same arbor with the pallet wheel , in one revolution describes lo ' of sidereaI space ; the next inde-x from the centre of the dial plate shows the degrees , and every 1oth minute , making one revolution in so ' .
And lastly , the decades of degrees , from z to 36 , _ 360 ' , are shown through an opening in the dial plate which in some clocks is appropriated to the day of the month .
13ut perhaps this will be better wen from inspection of the plate ( Tab. XII .
} wherein the han.ds are so placed as to indicate 147 ' 14t lo'/ The small hand ( it may be perceived- ) has two sets of figures round its circle7 the one showing the minutess and every loth second , the other the rlumber of beats from o to 60 , and this latter enumeration is what alone can be attended to in the observations ; that isn the -degrees and every 1oth minute are set -down in the jourIlal immediately from the indexes , and the subdivisions below lot are set down in beats of the pendulum , reckorling lrom o to Go , and reduced afterwards at lei-sure .
The pendulum , only w7 inches I40in length , is a compourld gridiron composed of * rods , of which g viz. the centre and two ; exterior are of iron , and the two next to , and oll each side of the centre ?
are compounded of silver brass , and zinc .
Tlle zweight of the pendulum ball is about 6 poundsn and that of the clock weiglat 32 .
The spring ) by which the pendulum is suspended is said to be so constructed as to produce cycloidical arcs of vibration ; but my reliance upon this contrivance is not vertr perfect .
The two chief arbors are 3enre11eds the pallets are rubies , and the axis of the prirlcipal great wlaeel moves on friction zwheels ; and I believe every care Izas been taken , tlolat the experiOncew of one of the first artists of this kiilgdorna could suggest , to r-ender it a COIl1p letepieceofmecanism+Itgoes fi vemonthswithonce withding Up ; and , from the experience I have hit.llerto had .
, , doe.s not seem to.vartr its rate besween winter and summer more tl--zan equal to three seconds per day ?
sidereal time .
( 19 .
) Alls I believe that remains for me to , mention , in -this part of tize accountf is the mericlian mark .
( See TabS XI I I. ) Au , 13 ) C Dn 2 , is a solid brick pier7 erected at the distance of 297o feet froal the centre of the observatory a8 fact highg 9 feet vide at bottom froz-n A to E , and-+ feet wide at top from B to ( : ; z foot 6 inches thick at top from C to DS and 2 feet S inches at bottom .
F is an iron bos 8 inchesQ square9 and 1 -foot high , excTusive of the top , or chimuty ; withain this box is placed one of ARGAND'S patent lalupsS vzhicn sllines through a circular aperture , ofabout 14 inch , in the front of the box , anci exhibits the appearance of a fixed star to the naked eye by night ; but the aperture being covered by a semitransparent piece of -glass , -ground rough c3n one side , transmiacs aX steady urliform light , that through the telescope resemlJles the disc of a small plarlet 7 " in dia\#162 ; seter .
By maling the wire ln the telescope , lNllich i5 r onIy 2"2 ln cliameteXr , blsect this cireular light , the instrument maybe v-ery nlcely adjusted to the meridiarl , itldeed with so great precisiorl9 that I think an error of one second cannot be comSmitted .
Around this glass aperture , which by day appears perfectly black , is painted a circle of blackn ( on a ground of mrhite ) whose extertlal diameter is o in\#163 ; hes anCL F -NIr .
J ; OH N ARNOLDS , M1 ; &gt; CCSCIIIV N consequently subtends-an angle of w8 " .
The lisectlon of : filiS last is made use of t day and althoughn lt is true , it is / rather larger than is necessary br a meridian poznt yet lt was convenient it stlould be so , to redder it visible in the dark winter months , if there was the least vapour rising from the ground .
Yet with:l all this , no error lleed be apprehencied exceeding 2tt equal ts only 8 of a second of timeX hor that , ullless the image should be greatly agitated by the vapollrs This mark is not only of use to find the meridiatlS but also to determine the horizontal point ?
when once the allgle of it aboure or below the horizon is ascertained 5 and , b3r comparing the meridian altitude of any object with this point , its declination may be had , almost as nearly as by the level or plumb linee I ought to have mentioned before , that the l)ox F is moveabIe upon the plane B &gt; C ?
by means of an iron fiame ont nvhich it slides , and screws to adjust it finally to the true * merlc lan .
Althoukh there can be no great danger of a solid pier , like theWabove , erect-ed on a foundation fbur feet deep , being likely too move , yet ths doubt , if any should occur , may be e-xaminetl by a plumb line ^b suspended kozn a ; and play s-ng near a corresponding mark , on the top of a post driven into .
the ground at c.* X , Ey are steps to ascend to light the lampS or take it in and out at the door d The wholeu is surrounded by high pallisadoes3 .
to protect it om the acci dents of cattle or curiosity* ( so ) Havlngtlius particularlyA described the vatious parts of the equatorialS I trust in a manner sufficiently intelligibIe Eto arly person a little conversant with astronomical instramentsa it maybe proper to saJr something sf its prDcisionS for with-oue some competent knowledge of the accuractr of its parts , it is in vain to attempt to adjust them and still more so to use them with any degree of satisfaction .
And here the chief objects of inquiry have been the accuracy of the divis sions ; the sensibility of the ; levels v and the power of the tele scopet I shall begin with the levelsv and first with the axis leveln Pf k ; the parts o\#162 ; which may be seen at figure tj -Tab .
SIV wlaere , 2n i^present the extremities of the axi$ * Of the cirele of declinatio:z X A ) a section of tIw-e tube of the tew W lescopeS g the levet r-ube , resting in the cocks or supx porters 4* + , and , , a--zld turning on all asis dR e ; on one elld of which ep is a toothed uiheel g*moved by a small pinion f ; turned by the screw head b ; and at a , is an adiusting scret to bring the leGrel paristel to the axis , at c is another , to bring the level parallei to its movQable axis dt , e ; hn is arl adjusting ; screw , at right angles ito Ct to bring the tube of the level 2arallel to its axis z1 , e ; i is arlother screw , to make this axis parallel to the axis 17 2 .
All these5 as well as every other adjllsting screw throughout the instruments have chamfered heads , with their circumferences dierided into to parts , and the value of each ascertained , so that , by turning the screws a rhole or any part of a revolution , the angle of motion given to any part may be known The usew of this ie obvious o but the clegree of conyenience is only known to such ersons as have been coRversarlt with these nice adjilstments k and 1 , are two lnoveable indexes to be set to each end of the bublule .
The tube of this level is about 14 inches long ; and the curvature of it suchn as that by giving it an inclina tion oi : lbft , the bubble znoves about I I &lt; , inch , and the third or .
iurth ?
art ( ?
f this space is plaiIlly discernible , SQ that no ' .
, T 2 error exceeding 3 or 4 " need be apprehended , if proper care is taken .
The swInging level 1 , m fixed to the tube of the te1 &gt; scope , for the purpose of taking declinationsn is iinground , and of very superior sensibility as it oughtn having been selected. .
expressly from a great many yards of glass tubef in order to get one witha proper flexure ; and such has been the success of this care that a change of inclinatio'n of this XeveI of one singIe seconda''moves the'bubb1'e nearly ff of an inch , certainly more than ItO .
Thisa I am inclined to believe , is the greatest sensibility that has ever yet been attained by a level : it is at the same'time'somewhat inconvellient since'it souletimes will reXquire'two or three mirlutes time to settie to its true point , it moves so slow .
An error , however , of more than a second need seldom be apprehended , which I concelve is as much as could have been -expected from a plumb line of a length equal to the diameter of the'circle .
The bubble of this level is about 7 inches long , but this varies rith the tetuperature ; and I have experienced that with about g8 ' of heat the bubble colltracts one inch in length ; this makes it very necessary to be atterltive to the index at each end of the bubble .
The parts of this level may be seen at figure 2 ) Tab. X1V .
A , ]3 is one'side of the tube of the telescope , , whereon are fi-rmly fixed two upright supporters , or cocks , C , D , and E , F ; * 15the motion of tkz bublule be taken to be esTen o , inch , st wxll be found that the rac ius of ctlrvatlIre is more than 1 IOO yards ; and , StlppOS ng the letlgth of the level = I2 inches , it wH1 olz]y comprise , from one en(l to }1Le other , an arch of 1- ' , and the verse(i sine of 30 " , in this case .
, would exprss the depressure of the tube at its extreulities below the cente of the level-abcout half I oI-Co of an nch .
Tlle curious ground level , for adJusting the axis of the transit instrllment at the obs servatory at Greenwicl &gt; moves , as I have been ; nbrmed , about 5Io inch for I " .
in whC11 the level GnI4 , I , about 12 ilaches longg swings upon tvo collaCah ceritres a7 ia truly turned , of polished steela GIs is an laolor brass tubea about 2 inch in diameterS containing within it a steel triangalar axis one extrelnity of which is terininated by the conical centre a and by means of a spiral sprng wlnding round the asisS is ma:de tovcontract lts length by pulling the triger g towards I , lby wIaich means the point or centre 49 retires wit]ain the tube GI9 80 that the .
two centres may easily be released konz the steel pivotswherein they play and the level Inay be reversecla if necessartT9 to adUjust it .
It is evident that the axis a za should be parallel to the line bg b which may be taken for awe tangent to the curvature of the tube at kg and this is procured by the capstan lleaded screw C7 it is also necessary that this same axIs should lbe-parallel to the line ABa or rather to the line of collimation of the telescopeS in a north and south directiong and this is obtained by the capstan screw M FirzallJrj it is expedient that this axis be parallel to the line of collinzationf in a direction east and west and this is effected by the screw h. en of are two indeses to mark each end of the bubb &gt; ea and , being fixed to the two concentric ... sliders , % which elubrace 3 of the circtltnference of the tube GIs are moveable any where at pleasure h is one of two scretws ) the other being opposite aAnd out of sight ) for ad justing the axis un z ; parallel to the liile of * collimation , eastward or westvvardg as has been saicln and at right angles to the decl ; nation axis .
I proceed next to the c3iv ; sions ... .
( 2t* ) Frhe superior advantages of an eltire circle ourer a quadrant or sextant , for astronomical purposes , are almost incredible to a person that has not consiidered the properties of a circle , and so great that I a:n much surprised it has rlotbeen brought into more frequent and earlier use For , in the 3irst place , the error of the centre , which so constalltly takes place in quadrants , is entirely done away ; secondtly , the small error in each individual division is discoveredS so that whatever be the skill of the artist , the observer is under no obli-gatlon to rely UpOll ity but can examine the whole himself .
the method I proposed was this , to make the irldex wires in- .
the opposite micrometers an exact ( liameter to the circle and then to observe whether each division corresponded with its opposite orle9 and if any difference , to set it down S these diffbrences I expected to find somewhere=o " o , viz. in the diameter -passing though the true\#162 ; entre of the circle , ?
and the centre of the pivot , rouncl wlliclo the machine revolved &lt; --4tnd at rigl , at gngles to this they would be at a maximum .
The greatest quantittr of this eccentricity , and the placq where It laJrg being ascertained , it would be easy to deterv tulne what it was in any other place g for this eccentricity , ill any given part of the circle , would be as the co-sine of the distance from that point whrere it was at a maximum ; and ffi on this pritlcipl03 a table was cqnstructed giving the eccentricty at esrerhr degree round the circle the nutnbers in this table nzight be colupared with the actual observation of the eccentricityS by the naicroscopes all round the circle and if the quaat ; tie ln the table did not esery where agree with ' that fotincl by experimentS the clifference xvould be the actual error oiS that iadividlual divisioR ; ald ia this ^manner the wholg saig^ht 13e exaznilled , , every error detectedn ansl a memoran dum made of it .
With this illtention and a full exle\#162 ; t7ation of fin:ding the eccentrici &gt; _ 8 " or lo't7 I set to vork to exa uline the circle all round , having previously detertnine(l thediakneter of the points in the arch to be about 21t1 , and the thickness of the itire- ] 2tJ .
It iS truen the points were not all exactly of the same szen nor could it be expectel ?
but ino general lt -Xuigllt be concluded that sv1atia the sXlire equally ; bi-Sects a poirlt tl &gt; we segment oa tach sid e ; )f the wire is aboul ; _ 4'1 : so that an trror of -lZ ' in the bisect ; ion can netver be committed , with a tolerable light and reasonabit care , the miroscope magnifying 16 orl8 times .
I placed the moveable ; + wire of the east microscope so as to bisect the di^zision 36O &gt; and then , by repeated trialsa made the moveable wire of these west microscope bisect the opposite point of 3.80t 7 in which7 taking a mean of three or four observations7 I cou-ld not trr more than a few tenths of a second The index of the micrometer screw being then carefully actiusted to zero ( o ) of the divisions of the ; head , I made earery lotll degree of the\#162 ; ircle pass under the lnicrometer wire of the east microscope , which Xwire might now be considered as fixedn and then noted whether the opposite division was under the moveable wire of the west microscope ; if notn I wrote down the differencet after three or kur tim-es reading Qi .
rrhe result o\#163 ; these experiments may be seen i--n the adjoined table .
BThere The lst column sllesvs the point , or division !
that was brought under the wxre : of theeast lnicrescope .
The ed eolulun sl &lt; ews the va &lt; t of coilleidence or howX much the opposite point disagreed with the wire in the opposite luicroscope ; at each read-ing oS .
The d -column gives the mean diererce , and is double From inspection of the preceding table of observations it will readily appear , that I was much mistaken in my espectation of an eccentricity of 8 or lo " , ffor that , in trutEzs there seemed to be no fixed cause of error ; and that therefore the error of the centre had little to do in occasiolling those differences in the opposite microscopes , which only once alnounted to 4 " , and this in fact was double the error of the centre added to the sum of the errors in the two opposite divisions , together with the error of twice reading off , and that the simple error never exceeded , and but once amounted to w8',6 .
This being the case , I think it fair to conclude , that the eccentricity never amounted to any sensible or measurable quantity , viz. never exceeded " , $ and that consequently all the variety we see , in the west or opposite microscope , arose from the error of the divisions , inequality of the points imperfection in reading off , or a little pIay in the screw of the micrometer .
But , as alI these together never but once alnotlnted to 2'/ , I think it may fairly be presumed that that is the greatest error that will arise , in any observation made with this circle when only one A microscope is used , and that probably only half that error will take place .
* EIow extremely small a quant-ity this is , may be seen by considering that , on a radius of two feet , an arc of IoJ amounts only to ^ o , o6g8 iloch .
Of l ' f o , oo70 of 1 " to ( -in round numbers to about -6IoO inch .
) o , oool 16 Viz .
to about 8 times less than the Zhinim ?
Wm visibile tv the naked eye .
This I teckon , with my own eye , at 8 inches distance is about , ,0lO ; inch ; but then it must be considered that the microscopes magnify }6 times , and will therefore render a space visible that is 1wO-OOinch , or about _ o''z , -which we shall sooIl find to be the fact .
Afterthis examination of the equatoriaI circle at every lo ' &gt; It did not think it necessary to proceed : : in the examination of each degree , and still less of every lot , as I had intended .
I the-refore quitted this and went to the declination circle , which underwent the same trial .
The results of wlwich will be seen in the adjoined table ; the divided arch of the decli .
natiola circle being turrzedP towardsXtlle east .
so e Froln the preceding tabl-e of observations of the declination circle it appSears that these divisions were very little , if any , inferior in accuracy to those on the equatorial circle .
Anda firlalIy it appears , that the erro-rs and probabilityof error were as follows ; viz. in the equatorialcirele , from 22 COt responding observations of opposite divisiollsy ObsnIn oa the error amounted to 2't therefore the probability against ; this ; error was _ 3to 1_ to 1=1 to 2 from s9 corresponding obthereire probability against this errors 2 , " - ; 18 to t 12 oS to X to t1 4tI= 23 to 2 wYations onv bothclrclRes7:about z Fs 8 .
'tW1 t4 .
aboutQ oAnd in the declination circle , servations of opposite divisiorlsj Obsn Tn l ?
the src amounted to about 4^ oo0 Therefore from 41 double obse OEfsn .
Irl the error amoutlted to 2t ' vis .
=4o ro zg__ 92 =4 to 12 .
1= 22 to 12 2 .
i i2 ' 1 to ; s We may conclude , therefore , that in both circles no error of more than2/ need be apprehended from the centre , and from the divisions take together ; and that in general it will probably not exceed lt1 , on condition that the micrometer screw head is readoff thricey which sn some observations lOQ nzay be ; dolle , if necessary .
Lastly , fhnf takinga mean of all the numbers eiIl the theolumn , it seems ; ie plaKe error , an reading off the divisions , isonly ott , in ; the e-quatorial circle , ando " , $y in the declination circle .
This source of er- &gt; ror may therefore be put at ot ' &gt; ; so that if one\ quadrant only of the circle should be made use of , viz. only one micrometer , and that enly once read off , it is probable that no trror of more than 1112 will be committed .
I9merltion this becauseu it wilI sometimes happen that only one such observation caxl be made ; but where sufficientX leisure will allow the reading oWboth the microscopes , this smallA error of lt'+will probably be halved , and if the declination circle be turned half round , and the observation repeatecIfg in the sani-ema-ner , upon the two remainingquadrants &lt; of the circle , as is done ; ( we shall presently see ) when the line of collimation is examined , this error will probably be quartered , or reduced to less than '{t2 ' t Afts the very rigorous examirlatiorz the divisions of these two circles haven-ow undergone , and from the general knowledge that I have had opportunitiesto obtaln of the state of practical astronomy in different countries s and when I consider that the celebra-ted artistS the late Mr. JOHNB1:RD , seems to have admitted a ; probable discrepancy in the divisions of his 8 feet quadrants , amounting to n 3't , I t-hink IE am entitled X believe that the accuracy of these divisions und-er consideration is hardly to le eq-ualled , and still less to be exrelled3 by that c)f any astronomical instrunaent in Europe ; and , from the-unexampleddiligence and care , with which } the kilful artist Mr. MATTHEW BERGE , workman to Mr. RAMS , .
t Sce Mr. B1RDS Methed o\#163 ; constructingMtlral rQuadrallts .
London,.s 768 .
DE-Ne has execated 9em , I -itI myself bgndEto -bearlthis tesa timony to his merit* ( 22 .
) It remains that I now saysomethingfof the power of the telescope ; for it is to ilittl@ purpose0-that the di-visions -be accumte , or theflevels-semilble , unless^thet fbrc-e-of thDe telescope be such a-s to correspond wit-h : the:sensibility of the one , and the accuracy of the other .
the object glass is a well -corrected double achromatic , whose joint focus ss 645 snches , with an aperture of 4,2 ; inches .
The telescope is furlli-shed wi-th two sets of eye--gla-sses , one single , the other Xdouble , of these elatter there are 6 , of different magnifying powers , from 60 to 360 times ; of the former there are Sy with pow-ers from lSo-to S$o .
To these omay be added a prism-eye -tube , with a power of abouMt 1oo , for objects nearthe zenithj or the pole , and similar to the one described bt7 t-General ltoY ; ( see Philosophical Transactions , Vol. LXXS .
p. S ) also a-tube with a divided eye glass micrometer ; ( -see Philosophical Transactions , Vol. LXIX .
) it has a power of 80 &gt; but the ; images are not distinct , or equally bright , and the extent of the scale is so small , not more than lo ' , that it is , in truth , but-of little use .
The double eye tubes are composed of two eye glasses , to enlarge the field and rerw-der it more agreeable , both placed on ; the hither side 0of -thecross wires , so that they-may at any-time be changed , without deranging the wires .
The lowest of the compourzdeye tubes , with a power of about 60 , is what is generally used for transits and polar distances .
For telescopical observations of the planetsg higher powers may be put on ; and of theses that of 4oo seetns to be near the maximum that this glass will bear ; with Soo the image is not so wellSdefined- ; with 20Q or 3ooS it is beautifully distinct and bright ; but this inquiry demands more experiments than I 11aveE hitherto made , having been able to procure these highpowers only within a few veeks ( 23 .
) Having now given as I apprehend a very satisfac tory idea of the accuracy of the parts of this instrumetlty I shalI proceed to the method of adjusting themX This machine not being capable of 1zaving ; its -polar axislaid horizontal its adjustmentsn in some respects , fwillbe di\#163 ; erent from those of small instruments of the same ruatne\#171 ; ( See the methods proposed by Mr. AMSDEN inbhis Description , and by Mrh INCE , inxhis Prwtical Astronomy* ) It may be proper to premise that the principal psoints required are , ost .
to adjust the level P , k , parallel to the declination asis U , V. edlyy to adjustthis axis at right angles to the lineof collimatiOllr of the telescope ; and , Sdlyp to make this axis at right -angles to the polar axis .
Probably others may be devised , but the mode I have adopted is as follows .
The polar asis is placednearly in the meridian , by mea2ls of a meridian mark , previously verified , and elevated pretty nearly to the latitude of the place .
lNhis is tD be done more accurately afterwards by the sliding plates , and screws ?
at the bottom of the polar axis .
The asis of the declination circle is then brought nearly horiz-ontal by its proper level , vize is turned roundrabout the polar axis ttll the bubble of the level stands true between the indeses ; the instrumerst is then turned half round about the polar axis , _ 180 ' , shown by the microscope W. If the babble then stand true , it requires no correctiona but if it dd not , correct half the error by moving the equatorial circle by its handle ts and the other half by the capstan screw aS ( Tab. XIV fig. 1 ) then turn : the instrument back again to its first }osition , and see if the level stand true ; if not , repeat this operation till it does , correcting one half of the error by the equatorial handle , and the other half by the screw a. The -declination axis will then be parallel to the level , and both of them to the horizon .
: It mustV be remarked , that in this operation it will be necessary to move the declination circIt rourld its owrz axis a little , in order to bring the same side of the level uppermostt but this in no degree affects the result &gt; for the imaginary line , round which this axis revolves , is what is meant all along by the axis and is the line to which the parallelism of the level is referredc The declination axis remaining in an horizontal position , ^with the level aborre the axiss as in Tab. IX .
thrnthe declina-tioncircle 180 ' , viz. till the level fbecome below the axis e then , by means of the pinion b7 restore the tube of the level to an upright positionf Jand see if the bubble stand true ; if not , correct 2 the error by the screw c all-d the other It by a. Now turn the declination circle got each way from its last situationand repeat the examirlation of the bubble , and co.rrect , as before , 2 by tIae screw h , at right angles to c , and &gt; by the screw is and if ; aftelr all these MI:)CCXCI Ih P correctionsy in earery part of tl entire revAutionof the declination circle round-its axis , and of the ivel round its asis , the bubble st-and true it folIows , that the axis of the declination circle and of the level , are in every direction parallel to each otherS both of them to the tangent of curvature in the lnicldle of the level , and:r all -three to the 11orizon .
Ihi-s adjustment is therefore complete .
( 24 .
) It remains to be seenj whether the line of sight of the teldcope is atrigIlt arigles to the declination axis , and this Iatter to the polar axis .
Take:the error of the collimation of the telescope in right ascensiona ta star in the equator7 viz. let the transit of a star in the equator ovs the assumed merIdiaOn be observede with the declination circle turned tonvards the east , and also tolvards the west .
If thereN be any diffErence in these observations , it will denote double the error cf collimation iEl right ; ascension and half of it will be the deviation of the line of sight from a llneat right anfes to the asis of the declination circle ; and is correspondent to a similar adjustlnent of a transit instru meant ... 1e amount of this error being thus ascertainedS let it he cormcti by the screws at the eye end of the telescopey t zat move the wires to the east and west .
) The declinationt axis by means of its level , being restored to an Plorizontal positionS let the centre wire of the telescope ( by svIz ; ch is always anderstood the line oScollimatlon ) be brought to bisect the meridian mark , t means of the sliding plate and adjustlng screw below the polar axSn the telescope will then become a complete transit instrument ; for , by thet47tt operatioh the declination axis is made parallel to the level and its axis and both to the horizon ; by the seconda the lirle of sight is put : at:tight angles to this axis X and thirdly , it s acljusted X the .
* 1* merlulan Now let the error of collimation ln right ascension- , in the same manner be oleserved with any star out of the equatorn by a circumpolar star , ( the nearer the pole the better ) suppose the pole star .
If any difference should be noticed in its 3assage , with the circle east or west , halve that difference and it will be equal to the angle that the plane of the declination circle makes with 1 ; h@ polar axis , if the oh.served star were actllalwly inN the pole S if not , divide it by the sine of its declination , and the true angle of the plan-e of this circle ( or of the line of colllmation3 -with the polar axis ?
will be had Again if this operation be repeated with any other stars , and the error so Wound be dividedby the sine of their declination , ; the error bf the planeSof the declination circle at the pole , viz. its greatest error , or angle with the polar axisn will be had .
And note , if these observations are made with stars on each side of the equator , these qualltitiesfwill be had in opposite dire tions .
Finally the same-may be done by two land objectsf one to the north , and the other to the south ; the rzorth and south meridian znarks , for instance , proper consideration being had to their declinatiorw ; by this means the error will be thrown in contrary senses , ; or doubled and , from &gt; a firariety of such results a very correct mean quantity may ultimately be g 13y difFerellce is here meant , the difference takell in minlltes ancI secollds of a great circle passiIlg through the star , and wh-icth can only be dilectly measured by a micrometer ; but itas is most conn7enient , this quan-tity shotlll be observed by t-ines or 1oy the divisions on the equatorial c ; rele , ( 15 and I6 ) this quantity must be dilllinislled ill the proport:ion of the radius to the sine vf the polar distances viz. multiplied by the cobsine of the deGUluation ; hetlce it is that this met-lwod is capable of great preci .
K.(3in .
deduced ; and -when found , must be corrected by the $crews at one end of the declination axis .
I have been rather diffuse in the account of this adjustment , because it is one of the most importalat in the whole instrument , and cloes not readily present itself .
It has now been seen thats lSt7 the level and its axis are parallel to the axis of the declination circle .
2dly , the line of -sight at right angles to this axis , and parallel to the polar axis ; and consequently the declination axis at right angles to the polar axis .
sdly , the polar axis parallel to that of the earth .
These are the chief requisites in the adjus-tment of this instrument .
Thosethat remain are secondary , and I shall take them in the following order .
lSt .
The adjustment of the cross wires to the focus of the telescope .
2dly .
The hanging level .
gdly .
The line of collimation , north and south , as well as east and westward .
4thly .
The index wires in the microscopes sthly .
The refraction apparatus .
Andy 6thly , the power and scale of the microscopes .
_ teS )f irst , the cross wires .
Let the eye tube be adjusted to distirCts vision for parallel rays by some distarlt object , such as Jupiter , , Saturn , or Venus , by daylight ; that done , observe , while cune limb of either of these planets appears running alorlg the equatorial wire , whether any motion of the eye , upwards or downwards before the eye glass , alters the reIative place of the image and the wire9 --if a motion of the eye ul3wards moves the planet xn the same direction the wires xre too Snear the eye &gt; ss , and must be pushed in , and wice versa , till the image become fisecI upon the wire , what* The heads Of these screws being divided into lo parts , and the Yalue Qf each }nown , any given correction is easily applied ever lbe the luotion of the-eye .
When this point is obtain &amp; , the eyes-top witAh its wires , must be there fixed , for that is tl:weir true place ; viz. the correct focal pointof : the object glass ; .
aIldJ whatever i:ndistinctness may bze found , from the diverw sity of eyes of different observers , must be corrected by themotion of the eye glass only .
AJnotller ; point to be secured is the permanency , as Xr -as may be , inbtkhe position of the ob iect glass c fQ-if this be notcorrectly centeredS which is very rarely the\#162 ; as , and i-ndeedw never to be expected , that isy if its axis be-not conc@ntric with the axisofr the ce]l , in which it i$ fixedj any lsotion of this-latter , by screwing or unscrewing its may not oily c3iange the -place^of the focus , t which thewires are adiusted , but will necessarily move the line of col-^ linwationfl liothin right ascensionartld declination.* To obviate ; this thexefore , two corresponding marks should be made * wit-h a:graver , both upon-thvecell , into/ w4hich the glass is burnished : , and also uwpon the tube of the telescop-e , into ; which the cell is screwedf or other.w.ise inserted , that in case the object glassw should ever bes taken out to-clean it , &amp;c. it mayv be restored very nearlyy ift not exactly , &gt; to itsAformer p* * sltlon .
The eye ; glass , object glass , and ; wiresj being thus settled xn the-ir respective places to each other , it will notbe an im p-roper time toS measure the interval between the wires , which canrlot bes too ; accumtelys done , being of F suchconstant use t this may be eithern ljtn byw observing : theCpassage of a* ; star iiz the equator , and maki-ng proper allowances for the rate of the clock , or by a star out of the equator , and making proper alI-owance for the declination in the proportion of the radius to the co-sine : or , 2dly , by means of the equatorial circle and a fixed land object ; and here the quantit ; y must-be diminished in the same ratio of the radius to the sin ; e of the polar dis tance .
I have made use of both methods , as -a conl'irxuation of each otherS and find the interval , whicsh is equal in the three utires of my telescopeS to be 7 ' 34 " j5 = 30"n3 sidereal time , and these three wites divide the diameter pf the field very nearly into four equal parXts .
( 26 .
) Second and ^third adjustment , the -ha$iag level .
By means of its proper 11andle u , Inove the declillation circle about its axis , till the bubble vf the hanging level 1 , m , rests true between the indexesn there fix it by the clamp w , reverse the level , by taking i-\#163 ; outof its pivots= and tttrpingti-t end for end X if the bubble nov stand true , the level is adS justed ; if notn correct the error by the declination ha ; ndlies and the other I by the small screw at the bottom of the level ; then reverse the level , and repeat this ol ?
eration tilXl it does .
The level , or rather a tangent to its curvature at its midzdleg will be parallel to the axis9 on WlliCll it swings ; and both will be horizontal .
At ths time look through the telescope , and see what land object is covered by the horizontal wire S now invert the telescope , by tvarning it 180t round the declination axis , and z8O ' roundthe polar , and bringing the level true , it will then point to near]y the same place f and if exactly the same object as before be now coarered by the horizontal wire the-axis of the level is adjusted parallel to the line-of collimation in a vertical direction ; if not , correct half the error by the little capsta ) screw at the bottom of the cock or armb that supportsone end of vthe b axis of the levela and:thU other half by the declination handle b aintet the teletoope , and re ; peat the operation till the am ohject is covered in both po sitionsa and the level is found true then wilithe learel and wi-ts axis be parallel to the line of collimation , and the ohject cov-ered by theiwire maylie coticluded to be in they horizonX ( 27 .
) Fourth .
The index wires of thWe microscopes .
The line of collimation , with respect to east and westS hRs been already adJusted as aboYe ( secot .
24j ) r.t then the declination ax-isf by its leYela be restored to an horizontal position S at this time ad just the index wires ila the two equatorial lazicroscopes WX to bi sect the two opposite divisions g60 and &lt; So ' then will these wires be rectified to their proper place .
That being done .
bring go ' or the division that represents the equator on thew declirlation circle under its respective microscope and tur the whole instrument one quarter round on the polar axis , , viz. till goo on the equatorial circle be bisected by the micro-* meter and if ; atthis time ) the bubble of the hanging level appear true7 the index wire of the decllnation microscope is eorrect ; if not correct half the error by the declination handle un and half by the little screws hS ( Tab. XIV .
fig. 2 ) at the side of the hanging level e then reverse the telescope , viz. turnit till 27O ' on the equatori ; al circle come under the misrometer wre -aad if:dle level then rest true the iadjustment iscomplete &gt; if not , repeat the operation.7 as befbre til it does n thenf by its proper screw bring the index wire of the declirlation micrometers to blsect tI1e pOillstS 90 and gGG .
The irldexes of both circles will Jbe then adjusted , and the axis of the hanging level brought parallel to the line af collimationy with respect to east and west , as well as with respect to nodh and south .
Note , - : this parallelism of the axis of the level to the line tof-collimation in a direction east and westO does not appear to be a very important rectification , but on some occasions may have its use .
( 28 .
) Fifth .
Tlae refraction piece After what has been done this apparatus will be easily adjusted .
Bring the telewope , t means of its two levels P k , &gt; and I m , to point to the torizon and in the meridian ; then , by the two pinions J ; h , { Tab. X. fig. 2 ) of the refraction piecre , brlng its two levels e and g to rest true u luove the nonius d ; of the little setnicircle of the horary and vertical angles abc to the middle of the divisions or oo t7 and also that of the little quadrant of altitude 1 &gt; ka toot o and this part is adjusted ( 29 .
) Sixth The microscopes .
The magnifying pQWtt and scale of the microscopes is all that remail1s to be considered The magnifying power of a compound microscope as 19 tvell known ( see SMITH'S Optics S 127 ) depends on the-proportion between the distance of the object and of its iluagey from the objectglass , togeth-er with the proportion between the fbcus of the eye gIass and ordinary focus of the eyea looking at a small ohject ( suppose of 5Ist or I oo inch ) .
These t\\T( ) ratios compounded give the power of the microscope .
The former is called magnifbring by distance , and is a material part in the construction of these microscopes ; the scale of the micrometer being regulated by this part of the magniting powero For example3 let the distance of the object from the glass be-1 ) and the distance of its image =4 its power will be ; and consequently the scale of the micrometer , or motion of itss screw , to answer to .
Ot7 ( suppose ) must be 4-times as great as the space occupied by 1o ' ; on the limb of the cirele ; and if the radius of the circle be 2 feet , an are of to ' will be equal to o , o7 inch nearly , orz the limb ; and,28 inGh on the scale , viz. =to the same arc on a circle of 8 feet radius o and if each revolution of the micrometer screw be intended to describe ' , the screw must contain about g$ threads in an inch .
But as it would be difficult to adjust the screw exactly to the scale , the adsralltage of the construction of these micrometers isS the scale:may at any time be adjlusted to the screw r for let the intersral between any two nearest divisions , lo ' , on the limb , be measured by the screw , and suppose , instead of being-1o ' or tioo " , it appears only = S7 ' " ; it is evident , that the scale is bigger than it should be , or , which is the same thing5 that the image is less by or a-to .
In this case increase the distance between the microimeter wires , and the object glass , 2tO , by unscrewing or drawing out the tube , that carries the micrometer and eye glasses , and the scale is adjusted .
It will at the same timej however , be necessary to re-adjust the object glass of the microscope to distinct vision , by the screw of the cell ?
that contaills it , until the image and the wires have no relative change of place by any motion of the eye .
This willsagain occasion some small alteration in the scale , and must be corrected by repeated trials , and the scale adapted to ; the divisions on the arc X and if the moveable wire of the m-icroscope be now brought to coincide exactly with the fixed one , and the moveable ilades ( with the mark + ) brought to Xzero ( o ) on the screw head , the micrometer is completely adjusted .
i , This having been done with all the microscopes , and the opposite ones being made to agree , each with the other , in such JD-CCXCIlIv Q manner , that the fised wires may-become a correct diameter I believe the whole instrtlment will have been completely adjusted .
( o* ) Before I conclude this account I must beg leave to trouble the reader 's patience a fbw minutes more , in order to give a general idea of the marlner of making the ordinary observations of right ascension and declination with this instrument .
Let the teIescope be adjusted towards the meridian marks in such manner that the centre wire may exactly biseet it ; then note if theY index wire of the equatorial micrometers bisect the points Qf 360 ' and z80 ' .
If it does , the instru{ meant is prepared for o-bserving a transit ; if not , and the differen-cebe considerable , it must be corrected by lmoving the polar a2si ; s , by its adjusting screw .
But as this quantity vfill oeldom exceed 81 ' or loX ' , -it srill be more convenient to note this quarltlty in the journalf and allow for it afterwards in re ilging the observations.-* As this quantittr will from time to o Th}smay be done by the bllowing trlle .
0Ax si Px slne zentth dist= x the correction + or _ according as the telew ssne polar dist ... -scope points to the east or west of the meridian .
-Wheiz ls = the erroI on the equatorial circle , :And P- the angle that the polar axis makes with a ray from the meridian markO And if there should appear any errvr in the brisontal posifon of the axis of the declination circle at this time , by the level not standing true , that error may be cor rected by this-theoxm - : sin-e alt .
13 X=x the correctio SlIle poll dlSt .
d ... WhereD is = anfe of depression of one end vf this axis below the horizorl And by moans of the above theorems , a table reay be calculated that will give these for \#163 ; tXns always } rby laspectIon ; such a table E have computed br my own usea but time lJe variable from a variety of causes , such as the possible settling of the svalls of the building ; the prtial or irreo gular expatlsion of the instrument , from the sun-keams accidentally falling upon it ; from the eSect of a fire in the rooln or the heat of a person 's body in cold weatller ; from the sun 's heat upon the meridian markn eastward in the morrairlgS and westward in the afternoon ; from the same effect upon the obserrratory ; and lastly , possibly from a latyal reErac tion of the ray coming from the meridian mark , -from irreguIar vapours floating near the surface of the earth .
From some , or all of these causes , this quantity of error will be found to be exactly the same hardly for two days together * but Is have never yet known it to exceed lSt ' of a degree , o",7 in time , during a period of mol^e than a year , and very rarely above 61 ' or 7 " ) sometimes on one sideS and sometimes ; on the other .
When this error is krlown , and set downX move the instrument about the polar axis by its handle , till the divisions g60 and -805 are bisected by the equatorial wire ; this done , move the declination circle by its handle-utill the hanging level stands true , and note the division on the declination circle cut by the micrometer wire , for that is the horizontal point , from whence the altitudes are to be reckoned .
If the order of the clivisions be such as to show declillations , this clivision will be the allgIe of the -coaltitude of the polar axis X but if the divisions be such -as in my instrument7 it will be equal to the altitude of the polar axis , which should T3e equal to the latitude of the place : .
But as it is suited only to one latitude it is not given heal .
Tables , somethIng similar tothisg may be seen in Mr. LUDLAMS Astronomical Obserta &lt; ionsa Cambridgeg X ; \#162 ; , and also in the ConZZoZssace des Temps , pour I 7gz , pZ &gt; I. as:this will seldom happen , fromhthe same reasont as have al ready been mentioned , I prefer taking a luemorandum of this quantity also , and allowing for it ; by which means I see its alteration , from time to time , -compared with the weather , know better what I am about , than if I attempted to correct itS and save a great loss of time .
From hence it must be seen that nothing is depended on , but that the instrument keeps its place during the four or five minutes that the observer is occupied in making the observation .
( ^g1 .
) The instrument is now prepared for an observation over the meridian , and also of the polar distance ; at which moment , if the weather should be cloudy , the observation incomplete , or unsatisfactory , it may be repeated as many times afterwards as is thought proper , taking notice of the distance from the meridian , shown in the equatorial microscopes , and making allowance , in the reduction , for the motion of the sun , or planet , during the interval ; for I esteem an observation made withlin lo or 15 ' of the meridian , nearly equivalent to a meridiall observation .
But , if an observation should be made out of the meridian , the altitude and angle of the horary and vertical circles must be t-akenf by the refraction apparatus f and with these arguments the refraction and parallax , in north polar distance , and in right ascension , may be found by inspection , in the tables that follow this acevuntS and consequelltly every observation readily reduced to the * sespect to those of right ascension .
It must be readIly seenS that the amount of these errors will be pretty nearly the same as those of any other transit instruxnent , whose magnifying power , and length of axis ?
are the same .
However , from act ; ual trial , I find that the passage of a star , near the equator , over any one wire in the field of the telescope , rrzay be deterlnined to within 3 of a beat of the regulator , in strictness to about " ,7 , and , from a mean of the three wires , to-within 1",25 of a degree , =-It2of a second of time ; that is , if the wind be still , the weather favourable , and reasonable care be taken .
Ancl ?
from a series of observations of the suns diameter throughout the year it appears , the error in ordinary observations : may be expected to lie-within '/ ; that it is 17 to 1that this error does not amount to 5 " , _ 3 of a second of timev and this includes some of the worst weather in which obserfirations are likely to be made .
I shall therefore say , that The probability of error of an observation of a transit over the meridian , under tolerably favourable circumstancesS from a mean of 3 wires , -viz in estimating the beat , , of the regulator , is about _ 230 Add to this the error of setting the instrument tow the meridian mark = , o Add , also , the-error in reading off the equatorial meroscope 0 , ,5 Total error of an observation in the meridian becomes To this add the error of the divisions , and of the centre ( at most ) =S25 o Also the second reading oF of the microscope,3 And the total error of an observation of a transit ovt of the meridian , wiIl be = So The same , from actual experiment , in 13 trials , withtn zo5 on each side of the meridian ( in Feb ruary 1792 ) _ -7\#162 ; SThat is , that an observation made out of the meridian , will giVe the transit over the meridiall true to 2a second of -time The error in the observation of a polar distance may be put s avs tol ows .
Error of the eye , in estimating the-coirlcidence of the wire in the telescope with the obect , the power , , being 60 times w Error of the divisions , and of the centre , in taking the horizontal point in the circle ^_ w , Error in reading this division off by the micro scope _____ O : ; Error of the leveI , in ordinary observations = &gt; Error of the divisions , and centre , a second timeS tiz .
in taking the allgle of the polar distance = Error in reading off this di-vision by the microscope _ o , Sum of all these errors = 6 , Ditto , by actual observation of the line of collimation , the circle being turned east and west from ra , , rious experiments , appears to be 7 , fLastly if care be taken in the observation , and the su1z not suSered to shine on the instrument , , ouly during the moment of observation , I think no error Ss in the polar distance need be apprehended exceeding 7 &gt; And in the meridian passage , none exceeding , So that it appears , that the right ascension will be observetl sx , rith twice the precision of the polar distance .
And here we must not omit to take notice , that of all the above mentioned causes of error , one onlyn viz. the error of the divisions in taking the polar distances appears to be fixed , so that , by repeating the observation , the truth may be ap-proached to any given degree of accuracy .
I have thought proper to make these remarks on the errors of the instrument , that if heaIth and leisure should enable me hereafter to offer to the Royal Society the result of any astronomical observations with it , it may be known to what claim to precision they are entitled .
In describing the-instrument , the following refErences inWab .
IX .
were omitted in the text .
fB ggn hh ii , are the eight conical radii to the declination circle , described page 78 .
, 12 ?
are two supporters to the0clamp and endless screw , page 80* is a pair of stops ?
for the convenienceof the observer E:xplication and Use of the following Tables .
The three first Tables are particularlycalculated for the *txse of the Iarge equatorial instrument for the purpose of clearing obserlrations with -it from the eicts of refraction and parallax .
The four last are adapted more peculiarly to the small or portable equatorialX such as has been noticed in sect. 10 , and which I thought might be acceptable to such persons as have the good fortune to possess one of these instruments .
Of these : Fables in their order .
Table I. gives the correctionof the refraction in north po lar distance , by entering it with the altitude at the top , and the angle of the horary and vertical circles on the left hand side t and in the common point of meeting is found a quantity , in seconds and decimals , that is to be added to the apSSarent polar distance , to give the true ; this correction is always additive .
^ But if the same table be etltered with the allgle of the horary and vertical circles , in the right hand column it will give the refraction in rightw ascensionS by multiplying the quantity here found by the secarlt of thedeclination , to be found irs Table IV .
Table II .
: gives the e\#171 ; ect of the sun 's parallax in right ascension and rlorth polar distance , and is to be entered with the same arguments as Table I. , and the parallax in right ascellsion is to be multiplied by the secant of the declination , as belSore ; the sun 's horizontal parallas being assumed-8'1,6 .
able III .
is a similar Table , only calculated to an horizontal parallax of zo ' ; so that whatever be the parallax of th_ sun or planets7 this correction may readily be lound7 almost by inspectlbn .
TabIe IV .
is the natural secants to each degree , extracted kom SHERWINVS Tables ; being of such constant use in these -stomputations , I Ilave placed it with these tables of refiaction Table V. gives the correction of the time ; viz of the sun or starvs distance from the -meridian , in an observation with a port-able eWatorial , not prev-ously adjusted to the meridian n this quarltity is to be nultipli.ed also byvthe secant of the declirlation .
Table VI .
as its title imports gives tfl7 &gt; e correction of the meridian line in minutes and decimals , which was thought near enough for a portable instrument S the quantity here found is tcs he multiplied by the secant of the altitude .
Table VtI .
simllar to Table I. -only reduced to seconds of time , gives the refraction in right ascerlsion , suited to the usual mode of dividing the small instrument ; viz. into civil hours and minutes .
Table VIII .
similar also to Table I. gives the refraction in declination .
The arguments are .e the same in all the Tables 7 viz. the altitude , and the angle of the horary and vertical circles v Wh-ich appeared to-me the only means of maling the Trables universal , and adapted to all latitudes.$ Thoir foundation is tili^S- : DA Let AB be a portion of a\ / vertical circle = the refractionL &gt; / in altitllde ; DA a parallel to\ / thehorizon ; andDBaparal6\ + A-table of refraction in right ascenson aLld declination , for the latitude of Paxis only , may be met with in the o ; Xxozssce des Teatlps , poxr I79I .
What I have givEI } in the bllowing account , viz. Tab , V. VI .
VII .
and 07III .
I calculated br my owrl 1lse , as carly as the year I 774 .
lel to the equator : then AC will be a portion of an horary circle the refraction in declirlation , found by TableE I. and TableVIII LCABntlle atlgle of the horary and vertical circle ; C BS the refraction in right ascension , follnd by Table I and Table VII .
DA , the correction of the meridian ) bund bysTable VI .
v allcl DB the correction of the timeS found by trable VS and , as AB will-hardly ever be found to excted 30 ' &gt; these triangles have been considered all as plane ; luaking due allowancea in the proportion of the sine to the radiuss for the distances of the arcs DA BC and DB from theirrespec tive poles which has been noticed at the foot of each Talule.e^ The refraction in altitude having been taken from Pro ; fbssor MAYEX &gt; S Tablesg IJondon edition 1770 which is calculated for a density of the air expressed by 29n6 inches of the baw mmeter and So ' of FAHRENHEIT)S thermometer ; and for anyf other heights of the barometer and thermometer , may be corrected In the usual way ; making an allowance for each degree of FAHRENHEITES thermometer , above or below S ' ' of 42tg5\#162 ; This correction has been deduced from the result sf a great many observations that I made some years since with the manometern described in the Philosophical Transactions for the year wy77 Vol LXVII p. 564 .
The equation that astronomers have generally been used to adept3 from Drr BRADteJs C)bservationsf is for each degree of tAtle there tuollneter ; btltn I think ) erroneously .
*I hare pl+tOpOSed multiplying by the secanta instead of dividlng by the co-slnes as bexig the reader opeiatonj , ,Xad wI1Sctl comes to tI1e s-ame thingt SX .
Sn Accognt f the Equatorial I2strument .
By Sir Georger Shuckburgh , Bart. F. A. Sv Read March 21 , zy93 .
&amp; Juvat ire per altum ; Aera , et immenso spatiantem vivere cclc ) , { Hoc sulv pace lracat tantum .
" MA NILxU S , lib. 1* ( I. ) BEFORE I enter upon the description of theinstrument which I propose particularly to dzescribe , it may not be im proper to say -something of the equatorial in general , and of such instruments as having been made upon a similar principle , have been used by different astronomers , in different ages .
The first account that I meet with , of an astronomlcal instrument that bears anyresemblance to it , is to be found in PTOLEMY , ( lib. tS of his Almagest ) wherewith , he tells us , he determlned the dxstance between the two tropics .
This instrument ls described under the name ctrpoA:sscou QptM &gt; OV , Xarld appears to have consisted of two circles , placed at right arlgles to each other , onze representing the meridian -or solsticial colure , and the other the zodiac X the former turning upon an axis , placed ltarallel to the axis of the earth , being elevated to the latitude of the place , and the other turrling within it ors two centres , removed 232 ' from the formeraxis ; and was in truth not very unlike the common ring dial , only 68 Szr GEORGE SHUCKBURGH s Accoagnt about six times as Iarge .
Each circle was divided into 360 ' , and those again into three or four subdivisions , and being furnished ( it may be supposed ) w ; th lwnoveabtle sightsn the observer was enabled to take the elevation or depression of any object above or below the ecliptic , tegetller with its distance from the meridian , or colure tl &lt; zat circle being previously placed parallel to its corresponding one in the heavensD The first neasure would give the latitude of any heavenly bodyn and the Iatter the longitude .
rtlais instrament , or sortlething similar to itn seeins to have been ill tase as early as the time of HIPPARCHUSS nho lived in the second century before our Saviour , ( viue WEIDLERT HtSt .
Astron p. 319 v et TYCHOD{IS BRAHE Mechaniva ) and was continued to be alsed by astronomers for upwards of fifteen centuries afterwards .
( 2 .
) The next account that occurs is by J. MULLER , REs ; IOMONTANUS , sive .
JOANNES de Monte Regio , who flourished about A- .
D. z46$o , and , in a posthumous treatise expressly on this subject , entitled Scripta clarissioni MatlSematici M. JOANNIS REGIOMONTANI de Torqueton Astrolabia vrmillar2 , Regulci magncl Ptole^aica , Baculoque Astronomico* Sc. &amp; &gt; ce in qu-arto , printed at Nuremberg in S++ , has given a pretty full accountg not-only of the armillary astrolabe , but also of the torquetum , which in fact &gt; as nothing morethan a portable equatorial , and may be considered : as the first i-nstrument truly of this kind .
As this trea-tise is become extremely scarce , and I know of oilly one copy in this kingdom , I take this opportunity of apprising the curious , that it xs-to be met with in the British liiEuseam .
A short description , howeverb of the torquetunsf with a pRlate of the instrtinsent , will ke found in hIons .
BAILLY'S Astro of Ihe E-qua.sorz4S Dzstr ?
Meent .
69 ; snomie Modern , rrOtue I. p. 687 ; and-a description of the astro &gt; ; aoiv3n armfilD7are of PTQLEMY , a-coor-dilag tO 1TEGIOMONAANUS'S concept ; ion of 1t9 who may be considered as the best colnmetltator upcon the Almagest now to be met WIth , will be founal in WEIDLER)S ] : FiStOrZa jIstronom-i-Sn quarta , rl741 .
( S. ) The next author that presents himself is COPERKLICUSA ( who lived in lJSo ) and ill his work De Revalutzone Orbiure ctestzum , lib 2 .
G. 14 .
De exqirendis Stellarum Loris , profesJedly describes the same instrument with PTOLEMY , b:ut as it appears to me , something m !
ore complicatedS having a greater nll.mber of circIes , and in truth what in later times has been understood by the name , Armillary Sphere .
( 4 .
) After COPERNICUS , 1 fir1dl ir } a work owf APIAN , WHO was his contemporary ?
or a little after him , viz. about SS8 , a compleve description of the torquetum , with all the parts of it minutely detailed , assisted by four or five wooden plates , together with the use of the instrument .
This work , which is also very scarce , is in folio , entitled , Introdactiv geographica PET RI AP I AN I ig -dactissimas VERNER I Ann3taSiorlesX Ec .
Ec .
cut regens jam opera Pz A-PIANI accessit Torqvetum , Instrum-entur pulcherrinzuzn sane et utilissir &gt; tum .
Ingolstcldii , annv 14533 .
TOwards the conclusion of this work is a curious letter of RE G1OMONTANUS to Cardinal BESSARIONS De Cvmpositione Me. .
teor jscopiz , that is , the armillary sphere thatr was used by PTOLEMY , with a plate of it .
( S. ) TO APIAN succeededS at some distance , but exceeded all that erent lvefore him2 the Justly ceIebrated TYCHO BRAHE7 who in his As[ronom Instauratce Mecha ?
Zgsa , Nortberge , 160e # See also Hist. Corlestis , I , i ; b , Prolegom .
Tsc-osxs BRAHEIo Algvstw Fisldelz ; trum , 1666 , IX .
Vol. folio , p. I18And-II9e Szr GEORGE SHIJCKBURGH s Account 7 folio has given us a descrip-tion and wooden plates , of no less than four different astrolabesS under the names of armllz todiacales et eqagatoria of diirent sizes , from 4I to lo feet diameter divided into degrees and minutes , and some of them into every ls or lo secondsa but furnished only with plane SigiltSe These large instruments were placed in towers appropriated to each , with moveable roofsS one half of which was taken away at the time of obserstation .
A circumstarxce that it is curious to remark is that TYCHO , WHO was attentive to every thing that could improve the accuracy of his observations , made the axis of his 1o feet circle hollowS " Axis s ; ejus e chal-ybe constans , et 1lndiquaque apprime teres ; in ; ; terius tamerl cavus , no p-ondere O.fZ*4t in diametro est ; 4 trium digitorum ; " a principle that has been very prudently re-adopted in these later times , as will be presently seems ( 6 .
) After TYCHO I meet with no instrument of this sort till the time of CHRISTOPHER SCHEINERF about the year 1620 mrho made use of a small telescope , moving upon a polar axisJ with an arc of 47 ' of declination to observe the sunns dise commodiously , and exam-ine his spots ; an account of which will be found in his Rosa Urszna , folion Braccianin 161gc ) , p. 347 .
But this instrument can hardly be considered as an astronomical one , being merely a contrivance to follow the sun with a telescopeS -by tnearls of orze motion only ) similar in its object with the heliostate described by I ?
r. DESAGULIERSN ( MathematicaL Elements of Natural Pllilosophy , lib. .
c. e. ) ( 7 .
) Again FtAMsTEEos sector , which he has described in the prolegomena to the third volume of his Histor-1a Ce lestis p. ooS , though mounted upon a polar axisn and very in gerliously contrived for thepurpose it was intsended for YiZ of the Eqmatorzal Instrgmext .
to nlSeasu-re the angular distances between the stars , having rwo clivided circle at right angles to the polar axis , to take right ascensions , cannot come into the class of equatorial instruments .
Nor need I here mention:1Wr .
MOLYNEUX-'S teIescopic dial , f Sciotherlfum teSescopicum , in z686 ) though denerlding upon the privnciple of a polar axis , which , like a ring dial , or equinoxial dial , was little more than a play-thing forall amateur in astronomy .
( 8 ) Buvt about the year 17So or y*g5 when the practice of-astronomy had assumed a llew face intllis kingdom , under the skill of Dr. HALLEY and of Dr. BRADLEY , M. GRAHAM invented his sector , for taking differencesof right ascension and declination out of themeridian e and this may be considered as bearin$ a considerable affinity to the equatorial in-strument in principle , and diSering from it only in the ex tent of its powers .
C:)f this mstrument , which is well known to every practised astronomer !
a complete account will be found in SMITH s Optics , Yol .
II .
S t38S .
and in SIr .
VINCE s Astronomy .
I approacla nor to the period when the modern -equatorial instrument9 properly so calledn took its origin .
( 9 .
) Mr. 3AMES SHORT , a person of very considerable eminence for his skill in tlWe theory and practice of optics , arLd particularly for theunexamp-ledl excelle-nce to which 11e had carried catoptric telese-vpes , in which , I believe , h@ has never yet .
been exceeded : WIr .
SHORT , I say , probably fineling him*self caupabit of maklng teSecopes , of very moderate ditnen siORlSs fit for many astronoinical purposes , and able to exhibit several of the teanrenly bodies by daJrlight , providecI they vsrere fuLrnished with a convenierzt appara ; us and lllovement for that purpose , appsied a two feet reflecting ti^escope , for Sir GEORGE SHUC-KB-SUR S Accountthe first t-ime , to a combination of circles , re-presenting the horizon , the meridian the equator , and moveable horat circle or cirele df declSination each divided intQ degrees , and every third minute , furnished : with lelrels , &amp;c. for adjustment to the place of observation .
This machine was invellted in or bef-ore the year o749 , and is described in the Philosophical Transactions for that year .
But as this instrument was furnished with no counterpoises in any part and the lerlgth of the telescope ( two feet ) vttas found considerably too great for circles whose diameter s^Jas not rllore than six inches , It became unstea4)r , and urwfit for any other purpose than that of finding and follow^Itlg a celestia1 object , and , on account of its high prlee also , was as far as I belieste , but little made use of .
( to .
) lIowrever , after some years had elapsed , the idea of an equatorial telescope was agalr ; renewed by three several artists in this kingd omn Messrs. RAlNI SDENx Na I RNE , and Do L IJONDS with many and very material improveme-ll-ts , such as to carry the portable equatorial almost to perfection .
Of this iNStRl1rL1e11t -M .
RAMSDEN had made -three or fourf as earlyg I believe , as the year oy70 or 177S ; viz. orwe for the late Earl o\#163 ; Buten one for Mr. M4KENzzE , another for Sir Jo SEPH BANKS , and laetly , ortefor myself verith which I snade a great many astronomical and geometrical observations in lFrance and Italy in the years r 77ab and z y-7$ , some of which may be seen in a Memoir upon the Hei$hts of SOI11 of the Alps -prirlted in the Philosophical Transactions for zy77 .
Of -this maclaine a plate and description in Fr6ellell was printed in the year z77s , and reprinted in Elaglish ill t7y9 .
An ample account of this equatorial will be bund i ) Mr VINGE'S Treatise.otl practical Astronomy , p. 1S of the Equatorial Igstrument .
tn 1771 Mr. NArRNE ptiblished an account of his equatorial telescope , in the Philosophical Transactions for that year , and in 1779# or 177S Messrs. P. and J. DOLLON : D printed an account oftheirs .
Each of these instruments were f-urnished with counterpoises , and7 in general principles were at least similar , if not the same .
The preference itchatI was inclined to give at that time to my town instru1nent , made by Mr. RA-MSDEN , was owing to the peculiar-advantage of a swinging leve].7 tQ the unexampled accuracy of its divisions , and its great portability .
If , in what I have just now said of the three last ir strumentss I should have comnaitted any error uritll respect to the priority of their improvementsa Imust leave that point to be settled by the artists-themselves , and shall hasten to the description of the instrument -I set out with .
But first oneword with respect to an instrument that has been in frequent use on the continentS called , very absurdlyn a Parallactic Machine .
( 1 z. ) The first notice , that I find of it , is in the History of the Academy of Sciences Xat Paris for-l721 p. 8 ?
in a lnemoir of WIr .
CASSIP{I , with a description and plate of it also in the History of the sam-e Academy for 1 746 , p 12 1 wherein it is said to have been proposedby Mr. PASSEMENT , but without any description-pf it ; it wille however be found describedn with a plate of it , in the Dictionnaire dfe Mathemv tique , par Mr. SAVERIEP{ : two vols .
quarto , 1 7SS ; and this account has been copied into OWENES Dictionary of Arts and .
Sciences , in four vols.octavo .
Itappears to have been a frame of wood supporting a polar axisn wi-th an equatorial and declination circleS of only a few inches in cliameter X and was in fact no more than a very bad starld to a refracting Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH S Acconnt telescope of 8 or to feet long , giving it a motion parallel to the equator ; and henee some person , not very learned , gave it the name , Marhzne parallactzquen as if srasposAAosx1$ and 7rospmAAwA .
were the same word .
It is true that the early astronomers did use a machirle called Regulg parallactice , but that was an instrument to take the altitudes of the moon ; and from thence to determine her parallax .
Nor can I say much in favour of a machine of the same name , described in Mrv L-A-LANI)EVS A1SSrDn .
Vol. II .
S 2oo4 , which certainly does not do a great deal of credit to the state of the mathernatical arts azllongst the French it however may have it ; s consre &lt; .
nience , as it is probably attainable at a very small expense .
The author last mentioned speaks ( S 24og ) of an equatorial in his possession , made by one VAYRINGE in 17S7 , with circles of 7 or 8 inches diameter but of what construction we are not informed ; and the name of the artist isf I confess totally new to me .
An instrumet also of this nature , made by MEGNIE , for the President DE SARON , ; S described , and seems to be well imagined for a portable machine .
This veryfamiable and ingerlious gentleman , -Mons .
Dz S^ong was so obliging , amongst other civilities when I was at Paris in 1y7S , to she+ ; v me a small reflector upon an equatorial stand , with some wheel work to keepit constantly following a star , together with an apparatus for the refraction , altitude , and azimuth , if I recollect right ; and in the year 1778 Mrt NVILLIAM RUSSEL , a late worthy member of the Royal Society , sllewed ule a -small instrument of the same kind , that had been made by the late WIr .
BIRD .
( 12 .
) From the precedingaccount , it must appear that the equatoriale instruments hitherto made , either from the small of the Equatorlal Instrument .
ness of their dimensions , or defect of their constructions , were 73 totally 1lnfit for the accuracy of modern astrononzy where an error of a few seconds only , in an observation , is all that can be admitted , to entitle it to any credit.* With respect to the precision of astronomical instruments in gereral , I may notice by the way , that from the time of HIPPARCHUS and PTOLEMY , before and at the commencement of the Christia aeraS to the ageof WALTHER and COPERNICUS , in the beginning of the 16th century , few observations can be depended on to within less than Gn 8 , or perhaps even so minutes ; those of TYCHO BRAEXE ) indeedn that princely promoter of as tronomy , to within one minute .
Tlle errors of HEVELIUSVS large sextant of 6 feet radius , towards the middle of the last century , might amount to IS or oo seconcis .
FLAMSTEED'S sex tant to oo or 12 seconds S and lastly , those of Mr. GRAHAM'S tnural quadrant of8 fbet radius , vzith which Dr. BRADLEY made so manyobservations from 1742 , might amount to 7 or 8 seconds .
( g. ) Having said thus mttch geneXral ; lie 1lpon the subject of ; this ingerlious instrumentf andnot moreI trust , than will be deemed , by every lover of this science , what its importance deservesa I proceed to the description of one I havq caused to be made byavery able artist of this metropolis , Mr. JESSE RAMSDEN .
A33 ( :Df E-F , GHn ( Tab. IX .
) are 4 columns composed of hollow brass tubes inches ln diameterS and 5 feet so Jnches long , these , with two others one of wllicil appears Szr GEOR4E SHUCK13URGH s Sccount s@n part at IK , and the other wholly hid behind EF^ , are firmly fixed , at their upper ends , to a circle of bell metalg BDFH , and , at their loYver end , $ to an inverted truncated hoIlonv cone* LL L , of brass , in height fl feet , and in diameter at its base AG , X foot g inches .
The cross pieces or tubes P , P , as likewise 0,0 , and 0,0 , serve to connect the columns more strongly together , and prevent their bendirlge These several parts constitute the principal axis of the instralmentj the lower end of which terminates in a steel point or cone , resting in a hollow conoid of bell metal , in such manner that the apex of the former does not reach to the bottom of the latter , but the place of bearing , and of friction , is ( it may be ) about two-terlths of an inch from the extremity of the cone ; the other end of-this axis finishes in a cylindrical pivot N , of about 14 inch long , and 1 inch in diameter , tUEning in aY of bell metal .
The entire length of this asis is 8 feet 4 , inches , the lower end being supported by an iron frame 4 , , 6 , 7 , 8 , which is firmly fixed , below the floors into brick work , and , by means of two iron bars one of which s seen at 28 and the other on the opposite side not visible ira the drawing , is -kept secure from any motion eastward or wtestwardf the lower part of this frame , to about one foot high , is enclosed by a mahcxgany beoxv or case , g ; so , the top of which is entirely covered up , and serves as a die or base to this end of the instrument .
The other extremity of this lon$ f the Eqvatorial Instrumentt / / axis , vis .
the pivot X , rests upon the strorlg iron support 29 , gos 3s , standing ten feet above the floor , made of lnassive pieces cf cast iron , 2I inches wlde , and 2 inch thick3 and 11eld firmly together lie bolts and nuts , as in the-figure .
32 , and , are two iron bars nearly at right angles to each other , and at I right angles to the meridian , that conrlect this upright support with the walls of the building , and , going through the brickst are held fast by iron collars and nuts on the outside of the wall ; these bars or braces resist any tendency , from the weight or pressure of the instrument , to push the supporter 29 , So ; and gl , out of its tapright position ; and , being at right angles to eac.h other , serve to keep lt steady with respect toany lateral force that may accidentally be applied .
The lower part is continued below the floor , and firmly fixed , with mor tar and lead , into the brick work of the arch which will be presently described .
The bottom is shut up in a box or plinth of mahogany , 3a SS , as has been mentiorled in the description of the frame supporting the other end of the axis ) at 9 , O Near the lower end of fflthe principal axis LN , are inserted lo concentric brass cones or rad ii , aa , bb , cc , dd , ee carrying orl their extremities agraduated brass circle , of 4 feet dlameter , at right angles to the principal axis already described ; this circle has two sets of divlsion$ , one of points , and one of lin-es , each into degrees and every lo minutes , and the sutermediate minutes and seconds are read off by the microscopes W and X , -with a moveable wire and micrometer screw , such as has been described in General RoY9s Account of his Instrument for measuring horizontal Angles .
( See Philosophical Transactionsg Vol. LXXX .
pe s4S .
) .
The cirGle just rIk More correctly +9q ; inches .
78 S ; ir GEORGE SSUCK8URGH s , Sccount nentioned is enclosed by a circular frame , or rail of mahogany , , 1r which is supported by ten balusters &gt; 16 , 17 , 18 o9 , 20s.\ 217 22 &gt; 2s , 24 , gS , and serves to protect the brass circle from any accidental in.ury in passing by it , without depriving it of exposure to the general temperature of the room .
It , at the same .
time7 affords means of support to a small lamp , 1S , which by reflection from the perforated speculum at the bottom of the microscopes , to be seen in that marked X , throws light upon the divisions by night .
26 , 26 , and 27 , are iron rods , that , by being attached to the wooden case , 9 1Qn give steadiness to the upright balusters , and the circular frame that they support .
and 2 , are large stout brass conesf firmly fixed into the frame 4 , S , 6 7 , 8 , before mentioned and whose use is to carry the uicroscopes W , Xn any degree of pliancy or flexure in these cones would be readily discernible in the microscopes , and extremely detrimental to the observationsS they are therefore made as stiff as possible .
&gt; , S , is a plane forming the upper -side of the frame 3 , 4 , S6 &amp;c. and consisting of 3 platesf two moveable in groovesS and one fixed , furnished with suit able screws , one giving the extremity of the axis a motion vIpward or downward , and the other a motion to the right or Ieft : thiS latter is procured by a rod passing through the cone eg one encl screwing into the plate below Lf near the centre , and the other turned by an occasional handle fixed on us near XS the former motion , siz .
of elevating or depressing. .
, the axis , is procured by a handle fixed on to a screw near\#163 ; @. .
QR is another circle7 of the same dimensions wltll the former , gr$duated in the same mallnern and held together by eiglatX -conical radiin firruly screwed to a circular centre piece , n71lich .
$erves as a base to a large coni.cal axis7 2 feet 3 inches longw of the Eq\#163 ; coltoria1 Instrume7at one slde of which is seen at U , , and its exterior extremity near V , with its sliding plate and screws for adjustment Close behind the graduated circle , and at right angles to this axis , passing through it , lies the telescope TS , M feet long ; This circle is likewise furnished with two microscopes , and micrometers ) as in !
theequatorial circle , one of which is seen at full length at Y and Z , the eye tvibe being at Y , and theobJect glass , with the perforated $peculum to throw light , at Z ; the other microscope on the opposite side of the circle is not so discernible in the drawingS being colmpletely foreshortened at Z near T , the eye of the draftsman having been exactly in the axis of the tube of the microscope .
os , , os , os , os , oc is an hexagonal lozenge , composed of six brass rulers , lSrmly fixed to the colulnns AB and OF , and supporting the lower end of the microscopes , as the pieces R , ,S , in like manner , , sustain the upper end .
By these means the wire in the field of the microscopes becomes a fixed immovable index , arldg after proper adjustment , an exact diameter of the circle , whilst the telescope , together with the circle , turns round the conical axis before Nmentioned .
At P is a spirit level , passing through the centre plate of the conical axis at right angles to the telescope , supported by a cock at each end , one of which appears at k ; this cock is fixed to the cone U , and by mean$ of a small toothed wheel and pinion , the level is made to revolve round its -own axis , so that the same side of the leveT may readily be brought uppermost , whatever position the circle be { put into , it is also furnished with all necessary ad justing screws .
It will readily be seen that a telescope , thus ftted upn will have all the properties of a transit instrument= Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH s Accou#t while the graduated circle will possess those of a meridiars quadrant .
For this purpose 1 , m , is a stout brass tube , -inclos ing a stiffiron rod , turning upon two fine steel points , adjusted , by proper screws , paralleI to the line of sight of the telescope ; this rod is attached to a spirit level of great senXsibility , Iying below it , which , vtth the rod , turns round upon the steel points just mentionedn and is in fact a hanging level of the best construction .
At the eye end of the telescope S , is a peculiar apparat-us to correct the effects of refraction and parallax , when an observation is made out of the meridian : it is composed of two levels , a small quadrant of altitude n , o , and a semicircle divideds with its nonius , to every ^ ' , on the breech plate of the telescope , the exterior eye tube having a circular motion , by a wheel and pinion at o , independent of the tube that carries the cross wires ; by this means , the angle of the horary and vertical circles may at any time be found , together with the altitude of the object , and then , by the resolutiorx of two right angled triangles , the refraction and parallax , in right ascension and declinationS will be obtained .
t , u , are two handles to a HOOK'S joint at x , X7 which , turning an endless screw at w , w , give a gradual mo-tion to the telescope in right ascension or declination , and this motion can at any time be restrairled by a clamp at qo The handles t , u , are hung-on to any part of the instrument , by means of the line and wire v , un and are thus kept within the otserverss reach .
r and s are two microscopes , placed on opposite sides of the circle ; QR3 and at right angles to the line of sight of the telescope , of use only when the plumb line is used in preference to the learel 13 m , above describedv ojR the Equatorial Instrument .
81 ei-ther for adjusting the instrument , or observing a meridian altitude .
y and z are thinperforated brass plates , attached to the cover that goes on the object glass , and , by occasionally turning them over it , change the aperture to I or + .
The cross wires , of which there are 3 vertical , and 1 horizontalp within the eye tube S , have all the requisite adjustments byscrews , &amp; c as in a common transit instrument , and are enlightened by night , by a lamp fixed near to one end of the declination axis U , viz. that opposite the end V ; but this part of the apparatus is hid behind the axis and the telescope , except the weight z ; which is a counterpoise .
This lamp throws a light through the conical axis7 which is perforated at that end on purpose on a speculum in the centre of the telescope , placed at2 right angles to the axis of the object glass , and from thence reflected to the cross wires .
This speculu-ms whichRis an elliptcal diaphragm , is perforated to permit all the rays from the j &lt; t glass to pass unobstructed to the eyes 'this contrivance has beelamentioned by ML VINCE .
( Pra-cti ca1 Astronomy , ip .
80 .
) From what has been*alrealfr desbribed , it must now be evide-nt that if the prInclpal , or polar a ; xisn as it has been calledS LN , fbe el-evated to the lati-tu(le , , and adjusted to the mendaarl of the place , if the line of slght of the telescope be at right angles to the axisV U , and this latter at rlglat angles to the polar axis LN , the brass circle 14 and tS will correspond with the equator in the heavens , and the circle QR will become an horary circle ; vis .
that if the centre of the wires , in the field of the tele scope be directed to any celestial obJect , on QR will be had its declinationv and on.s and its distance from the m7eridianS om whence , by knowing the hwours the ri ascension M9CCXCIIX .
M Sir GEORGE SHUCK=BURGH S Account wilI be obtained , * and consequently its true place in the laeavens .
( 14 .
) Before I proceed , it may be necessary to say some thing of the remaining parts of this apparatusn such as are either necessary to it , or concomitant in the use of it .
These are , .
The lamp to illuminate the cross wires .
2 .
The : refraction piece ; .
3 .
The plumb line .
4 .
The moveable roof. .
The regulator .
6 .
The meridian mark .
And tTwese will be best understood by inspection of the plates , where trab .
X figure , represents the lamp fi:xed to the farther end of the declination axis .
AB is the -brass case or lantern , suspended on two centres C and Dg within the frame E and F\#171 ; which isattached to the pillars of the equatorial ( I K , G Hy and that one hidden behind E F ) by the cylindrical braces a , b , c , d. e is the lamp or vessel tontaining the oil , swinging pon the centresf and g , at right angles to C and D ; an* by means of this cross axis , and the coulaterpoise h , the lamp is kept constan-tly in an upright position , whatever may be the situation of the declination axis .
G(is a chimneyto carry off the smoke from the instrument , and prevent its heating it .
z ; is a convex lens , that collects the rays from the flame upon the extremity of the declination axis3 U ) V wIaich , be-ing hollow , conveys 41l the light to the perforated speculum before mentiolaed , within the centre of the axis and of the telescope , and this is assisted by another conves lens atvthe end of the axis , before which occasionally is screwed a pale green glass7 of which there are three , of dif : Nerent shades , to tezlper the light of the lamp7 if necessaryn to the light of the xg The adjuttments which-I have just now mentioried } together with some other xs ; 11 be duly explained in their proper places of the Equatorz'al Instrument 83 star that is to be observed .
This light , as wasf said before , being reflected ctown the tube to the wires , the stars are seen upon a beautiful pale green field , the wires appearing black .
The centre D being of necessity full two inches in diameter , in order to admit of the aperture and lens i , rests on three friction wheelsS and by this means the motion is as easy as on zthecentre C. At k , 1 , zn n , is a small sliding door , to close 1lp the lanterrl from the wind , but which is here removed to show the illside .
( 1S .
) Tab. X. figure 2 , represents the refraction piece .
AB is a portionrof the telescopev C the eye tube , a , b , c , a divided setnicircle ; die its nonius fixed to AB , showing the angle of the horary and verticle circles ; es a small spirit level , :attached to the plate on wIzich this semicircle is en graved , and moving with it by means of the screw f , which ... turns a pinion , that works in a toothed wheel , that turns the whole plate , together with the exterlor eye tube , round its centre , but without moving the tube that carries the cross wires .
From hence it may be understood , that by turning the screwf , till the level e stands true , the index d , rliich represents a point in the horary circle , will mark how much the division zero , ( oJ which represent:s the vertical , is inclined thereto .
1 , k , is a small quadrant of altitude , that , by means of the level g , and screw and pinion hs turning on a centre at m , gives the elevation above the horizon of any object in the field of the telescope .
i , is a stall aperture through which a key is fixed on , to give a lateral motion to the wires to adjust them ; and near f is another screw , to adjust them parallel to the equator and declination circle. .

