II .
" On the Placenta of the Elephant .
" By Professor RICHARD OWEN , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author gives a description of the foetal membranes and placenta of the Indian Elephant .
The chorion forms a transversely oblong sac about 2 feet 6 inches in long diameter , encompassed at its middle part by a placenta of an annular form , 2 feet 6 inches in circumference , from 3 inches to 5 inches in breadth , and from 1 inch to 2 inches in thickness ; in structure resembling that of the annular or zonular placenta of the Hyrax and Cat. The part of this placenta which had been detached from the maternal portion occupied a narrow annular tract near the middle line of the outer surface .
A thin brown deciduous layer was continued from the borders of the placenta for a distance varying from 1 to 3 inches upon the outer surface of the chorion .
Flattened folds of a similar layer of substance , or false membrane , could be raised from some parts of the surface of the placenta ; at other parts the substance formed irregular fibrous bands , the fibres extending in the direction of the circumference of the placental ring .
The outer surface of the chorion is for the most part smooth and even shining , but at each of the obtuse extremities of the sac there was a villous subcircular patch , between 2 and 3 inches in diameter , the villi being short and graniform , 4th of a line in diameter or less .
Thus the chief points of attachment of the chorion to the uterus are , at the equator by the annular placenta , and at each pole of the elongated sac by the subcircular villous patch .
The umbilical cord was short and rather flattened : it was formed by two arterial and one venous trunks , and by the slender neck of the allantois , with the connecting cellular tissue and the covering of amnios : it measured about 6 inches in length , before the division of the vascular trunks , and about 3 inches in circumference .
The inner surface of the amnios is roughened by brownish hemispherical granules , from 1 line to -aith of a line in size-commonly about a line ; the outer surface is finely wrinkled , but smooth ; the amnios is continued from the base of the umbilical cord upon the allantois , which is of considerable size , and is so interposed between the chorion and amnios as to prevent any part of the amnios attaining the inner surface of the placenta .
The amnios consists of two layers : one is the granular layer , continued upon the inner or foetal surface of the allantois , and thence upon the umbilical cord ; the other is the smooth outer layer , continued upon the outer or chorional surface of the allantois , and thence upon the inner surface of the chorion .
The allantois divides where the amnios begins to be reflected upon it into three sacculi ; the disposition of these sacculi is described in detail .
The chief peculiarity was the presence , upon the inner layer of the allantois , and chiefly upon the endochorionic vessels , of numerous flattened oval or subeircular bodies , varying in diameter from an inch to half a line : their tissue was compact , structureless , and of a grey colour .
On dissecting some of the vessels over which these bodies were placed , the vessel was found to pass on the chorionic side of the body without undergoing any apparent change , the body being developed from the allantois , and from that part which forms the allantoic side of the sheath of the vessel .
These bodies were most numerous near the placenta : their free surface was smooth , not villous like the cotyledons of the Ruminantia , from which they likewise differed in projecting inwards towards the cavity of the allantois .
The most important modification of the vascular structures connecting the chorion with the uterus , in the Elephant , is their combination of two forms of the placenta , viz. the ' annular ' and the ' diffused , which have hitherto been supposed to characterize respectively distinct groups of the class Mammalia .
The author concludes by a comparison of the different known forms of the placenta , including those of the Pteropus or large frugivorous Bat , and of the Chimpanzee ; and by remarks on the value of placentary characters in the classification of the Mamrmalia .

