322 The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres.\#151 ; Preliminary Communication .
By J. S. Macdonald , Professor of Physiology in the University College , Sheffield .
( Communicated by Professor C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received April 17 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) The electrical phenomena characteristic of nervous function have always served to attract attention to the distribution of electrolytes within nerve-fibres .
The complexity of this distribution has been realised since the early observations of Du Bois Reymond , who first clearly defined the necessity of making all available information of this kind the basis from which to discuss the electrical phenomena elicited from nerves .
An important hindrance to the acquisition of the necessary detail is offered by the extreme minuteness of the individual nerve-fibre .
Most of the information already acquired has therefore of necessity been indirectly obtained , and can in general be described as a series of deductions drawn from a detailed observation of peculiarities in the conductivity of the nerve-trunk\#151 ; a structure containing some thousands of nerve-fibres arranged in a complex of ensheathing tissues .
It has been found that the conductivity of the nerve-trunk cannot be expressed as that of a simple homogeneous conductor , and can only be imitated by an arrangement of at least three kinds of conducting material in a definite pattern\#151 ; an external medium of poor conductivity , a dividing membrane , and an internal solution of a conductivity of a higher order than that of the external solution .
With good reason the properties of these three hypothetical tissues have usually been transferred to the structures of the individual nerve-fibre .
For example , it has been frequently supposed that its axis-cylinder represented the internal solution of more than usual conductivity .
Within recent years evidence has been gradually collected pointing to the fact that the major part of the conductivity of the tissues of the body , nerve included , is due to the inorganic salts they contain .
It is therefore a fair assumption that here , where the internal solution of the nerve has been credited with an unusually great conductivity , this greater conductivity is due to the presence of an unusual concentration of inorganic salts within the nerve-fibre .
Unfortunately , this statement cannot be adequately tested by an appeal to the " ash " of the nerve-trunk , since the axis-cylinders of the nerve-fibres form only a small proportion of the total bulk thus examined .
The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
323 The only fact gleaned from such an examination is that the salts present are very largely salts of potassium .
Summing up all this indirectly-obtained evidence , it might therefore he said that there was reason to believe that a solution of potassium salts of more than usual concentration was present in the interior of individual nerve-fibres .
Appreciating the fact that this statement might be critically examined in its bearing upon any one of the electrical phenomena elicited from the nerve , I made , a few years ago , a careful and detailed inquiry into the phenomenon known as the injury-current .
Taking the supposed greater conductivity of the internal solution as a main guide to the choice of appropriate methods of experiment , I examined the possibility that the injury-current was due to the diffusion from this more concentrated solution first permitted by the circumstances of injury .
Electrodes placed upon the transverse-cut end and the longitudinal surface respectively were treated theoretically as if the first was in contact with the internal solution , the second in contact with the external solution , of a hypothetical single nerve-fibre represented by the nerve-trunk .
Modifying the value of the external solution , I found that a very precise modification of the value of the electromotive force thus measured followed each variation in the external solution .
The relation thus found between the value of the external solution and that of the electrical phenomenon I called the " Concentration Law."3 Its nature was such as to confirm the opinion that in this arrangement I was dealing with a liquid concentration cell , but if so it was evidently a special case in which the conditions present were curiously simple .
Judging from the numerical statement of the law alone , this simplicity indicated a relation between the solutions present such that the internal solution must be supposed to be ten times more concentrated than the external solution .
Such a difference of concentration as this seemed on other grounds improbable , and the necessity for such a conclusion entail^ a critical examination of the kind of concentration cell supposed to be thus formed and examined in the nerve .
The hypothetical contents of this cell are ( 1 ) the internal solution , ( 2 ) a membrane of undetermined but presumably limited permeability , ( 3 ) the external solution .
Knowing nothing as to the probable effect of the interposition of this membrane , it seemed best to seek for the case in which the value of the cell was reduced to zero .
In this case it seemed fair to infer that the peculiarities of the membrane , supposing its permeability to be the same in both directions , were eliminated , and that the cell contents were now : ( 1 ) a solution , ( 2 ) a membrane , ( 3 ) another solution similar to the first .
Having sought experimentally for such instances,1 and Note.\#151 ; * , 'etc .
These numbers refer to the entries in the list of references printed at sad of paper .
324 .
I ?
foF .
J. S'* Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17^ for instances in which the value of the cell was reversed , and found them , the general conclusion arrived at remained as before .
The hypothesis being correct , the value of the internal solution Was ten times greater than that of the decinormal solution ( lymph ) found bathing the outer surface of the nerve .
1 This conclusion necessarily brought me up against the facts of osmotic pressure .
I therefore studied the alterations in volume of the nerve consequent upon alterations in the strength of the external solution,2 and failed to find in them any support for the idea that there was an extraordinarily concentrated solution within the nerve-fibre .
Obviously , as such experiments at once show , the osmotic pressure exerted by the internal solution of the nerve is similar to that of the decinormal solution found upon its surface .
Still , believing that the conductivity of the internal solution was of a higher order than that of the external solution , and that the injury-current was in reality produced by a diffusion process between the two solutions* I was , however , forced to the conclusion that the major part of the inorganic salts within the nerve-fibre were arranged there in some special manner.1 It was necessary to assum\#174 ; that the salts only possessed the osmotic pressure due to their real quantity , and were only capable of taking part in processes of diffusion in this real quantity , at the actual site of injury .
It was not possible to consider that they were elsewhere in a state of ordinary chemical union , since they played their proper part in the conductivity of the nerve .
In my imagination they were arranged along hypothetical surfaces , the surfaces of the fibrils , in such a way that they were free to move along these surfaces* but not at right angles to them .
Subsequent microscopical experience has convinced me of the artificial character of these neuro-fibrils , and I am now logically driven to consider the concealed salts as present upon the surfaces of particles existing in the colloidal solution of the axis-cylinder .
Within recent years Macallum , of Toronto , has considerably extended the methods available for the direct observation of the chemical constituents packed away within the minute and enclosed cellular elements of the tissues , and has placed at our disposal a number of reactions which can be watched beneath high powers of the microscope .
In his own hands and in the hands of others who have adopted them these methods have already led to the collection of a mass of most interesting data .
Most recent of these methods has been one for the detection of potassium salts.7 Using this method precipitation with cobalt nitrite , and subsequent blackening of the precipitate by the addition of ammonium sulphide\#151 ; Macallum has carefully examined the case of the nerve-fibre .
His observations have led him to certain conclusions as much opposed to the evidence obtained from 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
osmotic-pressure experiments as were mine .
Macallum 's conclusions , however , are entirely in the opposite direction .
He has come to the conclusion that , except in certain limited spots , there are practically nO electrolytes present in the axis-cylinder of the nerve-fibre .
This finding is , indeed , not only opposed to the teaching of osmotic-pressure experiments , but also to that of all the very numerous series of experiments in which the peculiarities of the electrical conductivity of nerves have been studied .
His conclusion is based upon the fact that the reagent used has only precipitated potassium salts at certain points\#151 ; nodes of Ranvier , and certain indefinitely placed intermediate points\#151 ; which taken together probably do not represent more than one-hundredth part of the total length of the nerve-fibres .
The pith of this contribution is the fact that I have to record a series of observations , which have amply served to substantiate my original conclusion and to refute Macallum 's .
These observations show that it is true that a solution of inorganic salts , neutral salts , is present at every site of injury to a nerve-fibre of a strength not to be found in the same Way in other parts of the fibre . .
Such a solution can be observed at any and every point of a nerve-fibre by the simple resort of injuring that part of the fibre .
The evidence upon which this statement is based is histological in character , and has been obtained by two methods of observation .
The first method has been the examination of nerve-fibres in a dye,5 neutral red , extremely insoluble in , and therefore precipitated by , neutral inorganic salts .
The second method has been the use of Macallum 's own reagent .
I will begin by considering the appearances to be observed in the nerve-fibre , when examined in solutions of neutral red .
Neutral red stains the nerve-fibre a uniform pink colour , sometimes an orange-yellow .
Presumably these slight differences mark slight modifications in the relative amount of acid and alkaline salts present , as the dye is a very sensitive indicator .
In addition to this uniform staining of the fibre , certain points are peculiarly affected by the dye : ( 1 ) the sites of injury ; ( 2 ) some of the nodes of Ranvier ; ( 3 ) and certain granules which form first in the situations already given , but which finally spread from thence , involving very considerable stretches of the nerve-fibre .
At these special points there is a very intense collection of the stain ; under certain conditions red , under other conditions yellow .
Apparently , therefore , the sites of injury may be slightly acid ( acid salts ) or slightly " alkaline ( alkaline salts ) .
Whether slightly acid or slightly alkaline , it is in both cases possible to prove , under the microscope , the presence of the injury-current .
There can , therefore , be no longer any room for the contention that this 326 " Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17 } current is a consequence of an output of acid waste-products originating from some gross chemical change in the proteids of the axis-cylinder .
The presence of the injury-current in fibres still under observation with the microscope can be determined by a resultant formation of deeply stained granules , the granules mentioned above .
These granules are not structures pre-existent in the nerve-fibre that are successively stained by the gradually invading dye .
They are first observed at a time when the dye has already reached situations far in advance of the site of their formation .
They may be seen to grow from scarcely visible points into irregular spherules of considerable size .
That they are not formed by any uncomplicated process of diffusion is deduced from the rate with which their successive appearance involves measured lengths of the axis-cylinder .
Equal lengths of the axis-cylinder are involved in exactly equal times .
The invading material giving rise to their formation advances into the axis-cylinder , therefore , at an absolutely uniform rate .
The rate of advance is of the same order as that of known ionic velocities.5 The inference is , therefore , drawn that they represent the consequences of the conduction of the electrical current along a perfectly insulated path .
The material giving rise to their formation comes from the site of injury and not from outside of the fibre , and is probably the material , which at the site of injury forms the newly deposited cause .of the injury-current .
Modifying the probable value of the injury E.M.F. by my original expedient of varying the external solution\#151 ; changing the value of the salt solution in which the dye is presented to the fibres\#151 ; the rate of granule formation undergoes anticipated changes .
Within the small limits of modification practicable , the rate is inversely proportional to the strength of this outer solution .
It should be noted that there is some difference between the behaviour of these granules6 when reddened by the stain from that of those observed under conditions such that they are yellow .
The yellow granules disappear with much greater rapidity , leaving no trace of their former presence .
The conditions leading to their appearance are , it may be concluded , therefore , readily reversible , since the accumulation of material at the site of injury and at neighbouring points vanishes in this case more rapidly than can be explained by its dispersal along the nerve-fibre .
The .
inference is drawn that this material reassumes the original relation to the colloidal solution of the nerve-fibre which it possessed previous to the occurrence of injury .
The reddened granules are more lasting , although not permanent .
They are , therefore , more easily observed , and the definite statements made as to the rate of granule formation are made from the results of their observation .
In the nerve-fibres of cooled frogs the granules are yellow , in those of warmed frogs they are yellow .
1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
The appearances seen at the nodes of Ranvier have yet to be considered .
It is conceivable that the nodes of Hanvier may represent situations easily injured by such stretching of the fibre as is incidental to the process of teasing .
This supposition may account for the appearances seen at some few of the nodes , but not for the greater number of those observed .
The only nodes consistently affected in every preparation are such as belong to internodes in which there is , usually at some distance , some other site of injury obviously present\#151 ; for example , the nodes next to the cut ends of the fibres .
The large majority of the other nodes escape .
Again , it is very notable that such nodes as are affected are involved at a much later time than the ordinary sites of injury .
It therefore seems possible that the staining effects at the nodes are due not to primary but to secondary accumulations of material deposited during the progress of the injury-current .
I have previously stated my inference that the internodal segments of the fibre represent a perfectly insulated path , that is to say , that the myelin-sheath is perfectly impermeable to the ions carrying the injury-current .
The nodes of Ranvier are therefore left as the only situations through which the current can leak .
It is possible that , although relatively permeable , they are still not absolutely permeable .
They would then form the site of secondary accumulations of material in transit , and , therefore , of processes of polarisation .
Digressing for a moment to consider the bearing of such a statement upon the polarisation of non-medullated nerve .
It is conceivable that these fibres , possessing no nodes of Ranvier , are not so perfectly insulated as medullated nerves which do , since the non-medullated nerve is one long node of Ranvier throughout its whole length .
It will be seen later that all the appearances I have described are due to the deposition of potassium salts at the site of injury , and their migration from thence with the injury-current .
I have now , however , to relate something of the difficulty into which I got in attempting to prove this fact previous to the great assistance provided by Macallum 's reagent .
Before doing so , however , I may be allowed to sum up the appearances described above in terms of this statement , that they are produced by precipitations of dye in solutions of potassium salts .
At the site of injury potassium salts are found in concentrated aqueous solution .
The process giving origin to their appearance is a reversible process , they may disappear from this state of simple aqueous solution , returning to their original concealed condition .
From the site of injury this potassium salt migrates at a uniform pace into the nerve-fibre .
Secondary accumulations of potassium salts occur at the nodes of Ranvier.- Having observed results presumably due to the differential precipitation of 328 Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17\gt ; the dye in different parts of the nerve-fibre , I proceeded to study more minutely the manner in which the dye is actually thrown down from its solution in water by the addition of varied quantities of potassium salts-\#151 ; * examining the precipitates under the same powers of the microscope as had been used in the study of the nerve-fibre .
Precipitation I found to be largely a matter of time .
Using a 0 05-per-cent , solution of the dye , I found that the addition of even 1 per cent , of potassium chloride precipitates a considerable portion of the dye in 24 hours .
Immediate precipitates such as I had obtained in the nerve were only to be obtained by the addition of much larger quantities of the salt , beginning at about 5 per cent. Such precipitates , however , no matter how rapidly formed , betrayed a crystalline structure when examined with the microscope .
The rapidity of precipitation is greatly increased by the addition of dextrose to the solutions of the dye , but here again the precipitate is crystalline .
It seemed possible that the granular character of the precipitate within the nerve might be the result of the viscosity of the solution present there , and this made me try precipitation experiments in strong solutions of gelatine .
Even here , however , I was not successful , although there were certain suggestive alterations in the grouping of minute crystals to be observed .
On the other hand , I was able to obtain spherical granular precipitates of the dye in a manner which only seemed to confuse the issue .
Thus , bile-salts precipitate the dye in just the form required .
So also do solutions of Witte 's peptone .
The addition of blood-serum to solutions of the dye resulted in the precipitation of yellow granules exactly resembling the granules seen in the nerve-fibre , when the amount of serum added was such as to ensure a precipitation of globulins .
I was , therer fore , placed in a new perplexity as to the meaning of the granules observed in nerve-fibre , when , fortunately for my conclusions , Macallum 's paper was published .
The drawings accompanying this paper at once convinced me of the fact that the differential , distribution of the hypothetical salt solution deduced from the neutral-red staining did indeed represent an actual differential distribution of potassium salts .
The drawings given by Maeallum correspond exactly with the appearance seen by me , with the exception of some slight changes produced by the acid contained in his reagent upon the myelin sheaths .
Axis-cylinder for axis-cylinder , the appearances represented by Macallum and those seen by me are the same .
It is unnecessary to say that his method is far superior to mine , that will be gathered at once from the ambiguities related above .
Neutral-red has , however , this advantage over the definite precipitant , that the effects produced can be watched much more readily in the course of their development .
I have obtained Macallum 's reagent from the source from which he obtained 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve .329 it , and have used it in the manner described by him .
As a result of my observations of its action I am in a position to extend his observations and give to them an entirely different significance .
Not only are certain nodes of Ranvier , and various unexplainable intermediate points affected in the manner described by him , but every site of injury , and amongst these the intermediate points alluded to must be reckoned , is similarly affected .
The cut ends are affected in the same way , as are also points purposely injured in the length of the fibres\#151 ; as by placing a hair across a bundle of fibres and compressing a limited section of each fibre .
Teasing the nerve in normal saline and leaving the teased fibres for some time in this solution before the introduction of the precipitating reagent , allowing the injury-current some period of action , the precipitate is given a new and much more extended distribution .
It follows , therefore , that a new interpretation must be placed upon these results .
Since precipitates of potassium salts can be obtained at any point arbitrarily selected as the site of o/ n injury , these salts are , therefore , really present at every point in the course of the nerve-fibre , and that too in astonishing quantity .
The presence of these salts is only revealed where the axis-cylinder is involved in the process of injury .
Further , an examination of such preparations gives no support to the idea , that these are situations to which the precipitating reagent has readier access .
The results are exactly comparable to those obtained with neutral-red .
In the latter case there is no doubt of the fact , that the dye may be present in maximal quantity in long stretches of the fibres in which no such appearances are seen ; indeed , it is frequently the case that such parts are more deeply stained than tracts in which there is a well-marked granular formation .
This revelation of a strong solution of electrolytes at every injured point , and the successful concealment of a similar quantity of inorganic salts at every other point , seems worthy of the most serious consideration .
It has long been supposed that the state present at an injured point was comparable to the transitory state of excitation involving normal points of the nerve .
Let it be assumed , as it has often been assumed , that it is merely a more fatal and irrecoverable degree of the same kind of change , then the observations of this state recorded above contain a sufficient explanation of the phenomena of nerve-conduction .
It is better to take the pure phenomenon 'f nerve-conduction , the characteristic function of nerve , apart from a consideration of its outwardly recorded symptom , the action-current ; for the latter cannot be considered without dealing with the permeability of the nodes of Ranvier , and the effect of this permeability upon the relative velocity of anions and kations traversing it .
The picture of the process resulting from injury as observed above is as follows:\#151 ; VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. z Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17 ) ( 1 ) A suddenly produced change at the injured segment resulting in the local liberation of inorganic salts into a new state of simple aqueous solution .
( 2 ) A transmitted effect observed in the neighbouring portion of the axis-cylinder , probably involving an alteration of the colloidal state of the solution ; for such I take to be the teaching of my attempts to obtain spherical granules instead of crystalline precipitates with neutral-red .
( 3 ) Evidence obtained from an observation of the granules , that even the injury-current is on some occasions brought to an abrupt termination by the complete disappearance of its source , the electrolytes being again suddenly replaced in the concealed position , or condition , from whence they have come ; and thus the conclusion that change is therefore even in this case sometimes a reversible one .
Let us then suppose that in all these events we have a modified representation of the process of excitation and its consequences upon neighbouring segments of the fibre ; a reversible change during which electrolytes are set free into a state of simple solution , and are then recovered from this state back into their original condition .
Here truly there is the appearance and the withdrawal of a source of energy , a relay placed at every point of the nerve to ensure the continuous propagation of the excited state .
Inorganic salts are set free to move ; they move ever so little ; the next segment of the fibre is charged las a consequence ( let us say negatively ) ; the colloidal state of the fibre is thus changed from its condition of equilibrium ; as a result a setting free of electrolytes at this new point and the propagation of the process ; in the meantime the communication of the negative charge to the onward segment has left the original segment positively charged , the state of colloidal equilibrium is thereby reproduced , and the last involved segment is brought to a condition of rest .
The idea of such a progressive fall from and return to a condition of colloidal equilibrium has already been advanced in explanation of this phenomenon , the novelty is an introduction of a new source of energy with the justification of actual observation .
The manner in which I have been able to associate the collections of potassium salts observed by Macallum with the process of injury\#151 ; and possibly with excitation\#151 ; in the case of the nerve-fibre , must necessarily have some bearing upon the collections found by him in the other excitable tissue examined , the muscle-fibre .
In the muscle-fibre he has depicted the presence of strong solutions of potassium salts in one only of the two sets of alternately-arranged discs of which each fibril is composed .
In this case , also , attention must be drawn to the fact that here we have a picture of alternately-arranged regions of high and low osmotic pressure .
Is it not possible that in this case also we have a picture , not of a resting , but of an excited tissue ?
1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
331 The acid character of his reagent is in itself a ground for assuming that this is the case .
Let us suppose that the fibre was excited to a state of contraction by the acetic acid contained in his reagent ; that the process introductory to contraction was the sudden liberation of inorganic salts into a state of simple solution ; that the facts of contraction were due to the new conditions of osmotic pressure so produced .
The liberated salts being immediately precipitated by his reagent , it might even happen that such a train of events could occur without any of the external manifestations of the contracted state being observed .
Again , Macallum has depicted similar strong solutions of potassium salts as present in the units of structure responsible for the flow of water in the sap of plants .
He describes these solutions as the passive relict of previously transmitted solutions of potassium .
Such solutions are supposed to have passed through ; the water has evaporated , and cumbersome collections of salts have been left behind .
Here , again , however , it must not be lost sight of that these salts were in a state of solution when precipitated by his reagent , and were therefore capable of exerting their due value of osmotic pressure .
It seems possible in this case also that he was dealing with an excited tissue ; that these regions of high osmotic pressure represent the cause of the transmission of water , and not its after consequences .
REFERENCES .
1 .
J. S. Macdonald , 'Thompson Yates Laboratory Reports , ' vol. 4 , Part II , pp. 213\#151 ; 348 , 1902 .
2 .
" 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 67 , pp. 315\#151 ; 324. .
3 .
' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 67 , pp. 325\#151 ; 328 .
5 .
" \#171 ; Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' December 17 , 1904 .
6 .
" ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' March 18 , 1905 .
7 .
A. B. Macallum , ' Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 32 , p. 1 .
Addendum\#151 ; Received May 13 , 1905 .
Summarising in a former paper ( * ) all the evidence then obtained as to the distribution of inorganic salts in nerve-fibres , I made use of a statement from which perhaps a quotation might now be permitted .
Since , for purposes of criticism , it clearly defines the personal point of view from which this present investigation was undertaken .
" Accepting all that is taken as known of the minute microscopical structure of nerve , there is no inherent improbability in the supposition that the inorganic salts of the nerve might be there held enchained in a highly concentrated solution free to move parallel , but not at tight angles to and away from the fibrillse .
Granting such a possibility , we are however faced by the important corollary that such concentrations are Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. i7 ; indeed enchained there , and are thus unable to exert an osmotic pressure , ^ by diffusing away , give rise to electrical phenomena .
:To explain , in the presence of such an hypothesis , diffusion processes consequent upon injury , it seems necessary to invent a phenomenon really secondary to injury and involving new conditions of the fibrillar structure .
The invention of such a phenomenon is as culpable as the invention of a chemical change , and the necessity for doing so is equivalent to the necessity of abandoning this supposition .
" Obviously the main difference between the state of the evidence then and now is , that a distinction of the kind suggested between the condition of the inorganic salts at the " cut end " and their condition at remaining portions of the nerve-fibre has been actually observed .
It follows , therefore , that the original hypothesis , temporarily rendered absurd by the necessity for such an assumption , is now remarkably strengthened by the conversion of the assumption into a fact .
There is , however , another difference of importance , which may well be dealt with at once before proceeding to a consideration of the main point .
In doing so it may be necessary to anticipate conclusions arrived at more logically at a later stage .
This difference is that , in the statement quoted above , the fibrillae are mentioned as veritable units of structure of the nerve-fibre ; whereas in the preceding part of this present communication they have been neglected , and the axis-cylinder has been dealt with as if it were a homogeneous colloid solution .
This change of opinion is considered justified by the following facts .
My personal acquaintance with the microscopical appearances of nerve-fibres has since then largely increased .
Whilst cultivating it in pursuit of the present histological investigation I have used dyes suitable for a revelation of neuro-fibrils .
I have , however , never seen these neuro-fibrils , except under such circumstances as demanded their criticism as possible artefacts , as for example after the use of fixatives , or in short stretches of nerve-fibres obviously suffering from the results of excitation .
Yet the only peculiarity marking the use of these dyes in this investigation has been the fact , that they have been for the most part presented to the fibres in solutions of such salts as were least likely\#151 ; as previous observations had shown\#151 ; to destroy the " living state " of the fibres .
In place of these neuro-fibrils , however , the granules spoken of have made an absolutely constant appearance .
Such granules I have observed forming at the cut ends of the fibres , but also in portions of the fibres remote from positions of injury .
Such granules may , even in portions of intact fibres , be observed to increase and again to diminish in size .
They may be seen at any 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
333 one time to be of different sizes and in different number in neighbouring portions of the axis-cylinder .
There is , therefore , no temptation to consider them as permanent units of structure , and yet , after the admission of " fixatives , " these very granules are joined together in lines to form neurofibrils .
The granules not being permanent units of structure , it is therefore logical to conclude that the fibrils thus formed by their agglutination also are not permanent units of structure .
The fibrils then may be said to be observed under conditions suggestive of artificial formation .
This fact also has to be taken with the complementary fact , that artefacts of just this kind might be expected to appear within the nerve-fibre .
Let us in illustration of this statement consider the possibility mainly dealt with in this paper , that the process of coagulation is attended with a sudden liberation of inorganic molecules , and therefore with a new condition of activity\#151 ; molecular motion\#151 ; around every centre of coagulation .
It seems not unlikely that , in the extremely minute tubule of the nerve-fibre , this -new activity , and the conditions of pressure occasioned by it , might systematise the spatial arrangement of these centres of activity along lines parallel to the long axis of the fibre .
This being the case , there seems an ample basis for the opinion , that we should expect a symmetrical arrangement of lines of coagulated material .
In fact given the sudden appearance of a uniformly distributed agency determining coagulation , we should expect the formation of " neuro-fibrils " as a consequence of the energy changes accompanying this process .
I shall continue then , in this paper , to speak of the axis-cylinder as a homogeneous colloid solution .
This point defined , it is possible to turn more freely to a consideration of the disturbance of this homogeneity taking place at each site of injury .
Evidence that the appearance of potassium salt at a site of injury is due to physical and not to chemical change can partly be found in a consideration of the quantity of the change observed .
I have found it impossible to secure a sudden precipitation of neutral-red , one of the dyes used for the detection of this change , by the addition of potassium salts , unless the salt is added in very considerable quantity .
A small quantity of the salt , 0T per cent. , will determine a considerable precipitation in a considerable time .
The precipitation occurring in the nerve is however sudden , and can only be imitated by the use of concentrations of more than 5 per cent. The same point was brought out by my examination of the amount of potassium salt required to annul the injury-current .
If it is admitted that the quantity is considerable , then it follows that if its appearance were really due to a chemical change , we should expect an appearance of other products of this change in similar considerable quantity .
And yet the ingenuity of observers Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17 } has been exhausted in the endeavour to discover almost every conceivable kind of product of change other than this one , which has now been discovered .
The acid products expected from a consideration of the apparently analogous case of muscle-injury have been shown in the course of this research to be definitely not present .
There is no longer any reason to consider their existence as probable , since the fact has now been recorded that the site of injury may be neutral , and even alkaline , at a time when the process of injury is most effective in the production of its consequence , the injury-current .
S0 far , therefore , there is no reason to consider the existence of any process of chemical change .
Again , when attention is paid to the extraordinary series of exciting causes , which can be used to provoke this change , further doubt must be thrown upon the suggestion that it is the result of a definite chemical reaction .
The similarity in consequence of the application of slight modifications of temperature in both directions of the scale , of slight mechanical interference , of acids and alkalies , of other chemical reagents having apparently no common basis of chemical action , clearly indicates the improbable nature of the statement that the energy thus disclosed has been previously locked up in some form of chemical combination .
The indications are therefore such as to demand a search for some physical bond between these salts and the remaining constituents of the axis-cylinder removable by a great variety of circumstances .
Our attention once directed to the physical conditions present within the axis-cylinder , it is seen that the most remarkable condition present is the yet imperfectly understood condition of proteid material in a state of colloid solution .
The facts of the case , therefore , so far as they have been elicited , may be accepted as an indication that this state of colloid solution is in some way a possible store of potential energy .
If this is so , then the state of more perfect colloid solution should rationally be expected to function as a more ample store than any state of less perfect solution .
It therefore becomes a matter of importance to inquire whether any diminution in the perfection of the colloid solution of the axis-cylinder , any tendency towards coagulation , has been observed in the region of the nerve-fibre in which this redistribution of energy has been found . .
It is at this point that my observations of the staining effects of neutral-red and toluidin-blue come to the assistance of those made with the aid of Macallum 's reagent .
They may be accepted as evidence of the deposition of colloid material ( gel .
) as granules of visible dimensions , upon the surfaces of which the dyes are precipitated from the solutions of inorganic salts surrounding them .
In medullated nerve therefore a colloid solution is found , 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve .
335 the condition of which is modified by injury and presumbably by excitation .
When a more perfect state of colloid solution is degraded to a less perfect state , this fact is attended by a rise in osmotic pressure due to the liberation of electrolytes into a new condition of simple aqueous solution .
The existence of a colloid solution with similar qualities in non-medullated nerve is inferred from the bulbar prominences , which at every site of injury form evidence of the effects of an increase in local osmotic pressure .
Similar bulbar prominences occurring under similar conditions upon naked nerve-endings , and upon the dendrites of nerve-cells , point to the universal distribution of such a solution throughout the whole scheme of nervous tissue .
In explanation of this rise in osmotic pressure accompanying the observed degradation of the state of colloid solution , I will take it as possible that , in the colloid solutions here considered , a very considerable fraction of the mass of inorganic salts concomitantly present is situated upon the surfaces of the aggregates of colloid molecules .
When , therefore , the total surface presented by such aggregates is increased by their more minute state of subdivision in the state of more perfect solution , the relative quantity of electrolytes locked up upon such surfaces may conceivably be increased , and the quantity in a state of simple aqueous solution diminished .
On the other hand any dissolution of the colloid may result in an increase of the quantity of electrolytes present in aqueous solution , and in a rise in osmotic pressure .
Many instances are known of the collection of such a condensed solution of salts upon the surface of solid colloid masses , such as the surfaces of threads lying immersed in aqueous solutions of salts .
It seems feasible that the conditions essential to their collection are also present when the solid masses of colloid material are infinitely reduced in size .
The ocular demonstration of such a condition upon particles , of visible size should not be difficult , and , indeed , may be obtained from an examination of Macallum 's drawings of the potassium ring surrounding granules within the nerve-fibre itself .
It is possible , also , that Macallum 's observations of the collections of potassium upon the surfaces of certain tissue-cells may afford a demonstration of this condition present upon colloid aggregates of a larger size ; and that the Golgi staining method , and all similar impregnation methods , may depend upon similar effects .
Such an hypothesis carries with it the corollary , that the limited motion permissible to these electrolytes must diminish their usefulness in the transmission of an electrical current through the colloid solution .
This corollary , therefore , opens up an objection to the hypothesis , The hypothesis would ' seem to be rendered unlikely by observations of the electrical conductivity of ; 336 .
Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17 colloid solutions containing electrolytes , as , for instance , the conductivity 0f lymph , and , indeed , of nerve itself .
Before this objection can be dealt with , another corollary must , however , be considered .
Viewed from this hyp0 .
thesis , colloid solutions must be considered as in a peculiar condition , which we may call " pseudo-polarisation , " when placed at a different potential in different parts of their continuity\#151 ; as during the transmission of an electrical current .
A colloid solution placed as a conductor in the path of an electrical current should possess a graduated , series of states of perfection distributed throughout its length .
The extreme case of degradation would be found at one end of the solution .
At this point , therefore , a large quantity of electrolytes would enter the state of simple aqueous solution , thus diminishing the resistance .
Diminution of resistance at this point would , however , alter the distribution of potential , and the neighbouring portion of the solution would in its turn enter the same , or nearly the same , extreme condition of degradation .
The resistance of the solution would in this way become increased at one electrode , diminished in the neighbourhood of the other ; and in only one point , which from analogy to the case of nerve ( probably very exact analogy ) might be called " the indifferent point , " would the colloid solution retain its original state of perfection .
Thus the measurement of electrical conductivity , even by rapidly alternating currents , might provide a very false estimate of the distribution of electrolytes within a colloid solution in its original condition of homogeneous equilibrium .
The hypothesis , therefore , is not at once rendered impossible by these measurements .
The possibility of such a " pseudo-polarisation " is not drawn from the imagination .
Examining under the microscope nerve-fibres staining with neutral-red and toluidin-blue , I have observed regions of the axis-cylinder affected in just this way .
Such regions , which are not those directly affected by diffusion inwards from the source of the injury-current , but are more distant regions , carrying the current arising from the injury-current source , are beset with stained granules , arranged very regularly within the axis-cylinder , varying in number and in size in a very definite way .
Wherever the number of the granules counted across the axis-cylinder is large , the size of each individual granule is small ; wherever the number is small , the size is great .
Further , the number , and therefore the size , varies in a very definite manner along the region affected .
So struck was I at first with the possible relation between the appearances observed and the passage of an electrical current , and so affected by the observation that these appearances occurred in regions of the fibre not directly involved by the injury , that I associated them with the possible transit of an action-current ; now , however , I should 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
337 rather regard them as polarised regions of the fibre involved secondarily in the transmission of the injury-current .
In this connection I might put forward the claim that the observation of an accis-cylinder carrying this vurrent provided the very best means for examining the state of a colloidal solution traversed by absolutely parallel stream-lines of current .
In direct support of the possible existence of such a condition of " pseudo-polarisation , " I might also mention the " true longitudinal polarisation .
" of nerve .
Place a piece of nerve as truly in a straight line as possible between non-polarisable electrodes , and pass a current through it , then , on removal of this current , a " polarisation " ( ?
) current is observed to traverse it in the reverse direction .
This phenomenon has attracted some attention , since the whole of the polarisation phenomena of nerve have been attributed to the passage of the current through the walls surrounding the axis-cylinders , and in this case it is not obvious that any such traverse has taken place .
It is true that an explanation has been found for it in the assumption that the fibres have not been placed in true rectilinear fashion between the \#166 ; electrodes .
To me , however , this explanation has never appealed , possessing considerable faith in the relatively greater magnitude of the conductivity of the axis-cylinder , and not aware that slight twists in the direction of an insulated wire produced much leakage of the current through the insulation .
I have also , however , observed the phenomenon under conditions in which such twisting could not be supposed to have occurred to any degree worth mentioning , as , for example , when thin slices of a stout nerve-trunk were placed in this manner between the electrodes .
Imbued with the idea that " membranes " formed a necessary factor in the production of all the internal polarisation phenomena occurring in living tissues , I was at the time inclined to postulate the existence of theoretical membranes arranged transversely to the longitudinal axis of the nerve-fibre , perhaps at the nodes of Ranvier .
During the present investigation , however , I have frequently watched the granular conditions I have described pass uninterruptedly through the nodes , and have thus become convinced of the uninterrupted continuity of the axis-cylinder , and , therefore , of the absence of transverse membranes from these nodal points .
This newly-described condition of " pseudo-polarisation , " however , provides a complete explanation of the phenomenon of true longitudinal polarisation , just as it at the same time provides an explanation of the manner in which the electrolytes of the uerve may be set in motion in measurements of electrical conductivity , although usually locked up in its normal state of colloid solution .
The condition of " pseudo-polarisation , " therefore , has certain direct evidence in support of its existence , and , further than that , its existence Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17 ) can be considered as an explanation of a hitherto unexplained condition .
Its existence diminishes the value which might otherwise be placed upon the measurements of the electrical conductivity of colloid solutions .
They cannot be used as objections to the assumed method of arrangement of inorganic salts in the colloid solution of the nerve-fibre , in which there is good reason to suppose that " pseudo-polarisation " is an easily elicited phenomenon .
The hypothesis may therefore meet with serious consideration , and with it the conception that such colloid solutions as exist in the nerve-fibre form ample stores of energy in the manner suggested .
There are of necessity limits to the part which it is suggested these stores of potential energy play in the redistributions of energy observed in living tissues .
In the first place , it is not suggested that the extreme amount of energy accumulated by them is in every case expended .
Hitherto , in the case of nerve injury , we have been considering the extreme case , the generally fatal accident , in which the primary conditions essential to storage have been suddenly and completely annihilated .
It is reasonable to suppose that such extreme instances of coagulation are not of normal occurrence , and that , within the living organism , departures from the normal state are only permitted within readily reversible limits .
Let us consider the case of a simple cellular unit , one of the many other similar units placed side by side in the formation of a tissue .
Let us take the case of a single ciliated epithelial cell .
Within the cell itself are certain surfaces limiting the movements of salts , but permitting a movement of water .
On one side of one of these surfaces inorganic salts are suddenly liberated , there is a translation of water across the surface , the cilia are rendered turgid and are moved .
Further , the movement of molecules of inorganic salts , although limited , is not entirely prevented ; there is a tendency for diffusion to take place from this cell into its neighbour , the two cells are thereby oppositely charged ; the electrical charge bestowed upon the neighbouring cell excites this in its turn ; the charge left in the original cell brings its colloid solution back into , or nearly into , their normal state .
The cell , therefore , is excited , performs its function , excites its neighbour , and itself returns to rest .
In this we have an essential unit of a picture of ciliary motion traversing a sheet of epithelium in a definite direction .
We have not , however , the whole of the essential unit .
In the performance of this cycle of change external work has been performed , the store of potential energy has therefore been necessarily reduced .
To succeed absolutely in returning to its original state , the cell must necessarily resort to a transaction with some external source of energy .
True , the amount required may not be as great as at first sight appears , since there has been a give and take 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
339 between neighbouring cells .
Minute as it may be , however , there can he no doubt as to the loss of energy from each individual cell .
It is impossible , therefore , to accept the physical theory dealt with here as accounting for all of the phenomena observed .
That does not seem to me , however , a fact detracting in any way from the significance of the statements made above .
The " head of steam " immediately made use of in the contraction process may , nevertheless , be sought in the sudden removal of conditions hitherto restraining the motion of inorganic salts .
In the case of the transmission process from cell to cell , we may greatly strengthen the form of the statement .
The condition essential to this transmission must almost necessarily be of the kind considered .
It is conceivable^ therefore , that the most interesting elements of the function of the cell might be more economically studied when attention is mainly directed to the alterations in physical condition occurring within and around it , than by a direction of attention to the ground-phenomena of chemical assimilation and dissimilation .
In the case of nerve-conduction , there is least need to place the chemical changes of assimilation and dissimilation in the fore-front of an explanation .
Such changes are undoubtedly facts , but it has still to be proved that they are facts requiring primary consideration in connection with characteristics of function .
In the case of nerve , the amount of external work done is infinitesimal .
The tissue 's primary duty is the transmission of energy , and it accomplishes the purpose of its existence with remarkably little loss .
The nervous impulse also is transmitted with a rapidity , and with an absence of trail , not usually observed in the transmission of chemical change .
If the nervous impulse is a chemical phenomenon , then it is a most marvellous chemical phenomenon .
If it is a physical phenomenon , it falls at once into a general class of physical phenomena , also leading to the transmission of energy from point to point .
As a physical phenomenon its nature may not be understood , but it is easy to conceive that it soon may be understood , and that it will prove to be a simple phenomenon .
If it is a chemical phenomenon , then it is almost necessary to conceive that it is a complex process , obtainable also , only under the most complex conditions .
There can be no objection , therefore , to the introduction of another physical theory of nerve-function , if supported by sufficient evidence to warrant its introduction .
The more simple the theory , the more likely it is to be true .
Let us therefore think of an isolated strip of colloid solution containing , and capable of containing without suffering precipitation , a large quantity of inorganic salts .
Let us also grant the existence of a peculiar relation between colloid material and inorganic salts of the nature previously described .
Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17( Apparently the only other conditions necessary to imitate nerve-function , and they at least are entirely reasonable conditions , are that the colloid solution should undergo some degree of a coagulative change when negatively charged , and that the negative anion of the contained inorganic salts should be relatively more rapid in its motion than the positive kation .
Let us think of the strip as A , B , C , D , E. At A , the terminal point , let any agent be applied productive of a condition of degradation ( tendency towards coagulation ) .
The condition of degradation is at once the cause of a sudden rise in osmotic pressure due to the new freedom given to the inorganic salts .
Instantaneously diffusion tends to take place into B , and the instantaneous result will be the conference of a negative charge upon this neighbouring portion , a positive charge upon the portion first affected .
Point B is therefore now excited , and point A , originally excited , is brought back into a state of rest , and indeed , by reason of its positive charge , beyond that state into a condition- of more perfect colloid solution than before .
A has passed from a condition of excitation into a condition of inhibition , a condition however which it does not long retain ; since backward diffusion from the newly excited point B reduces its positive charge , and brings it again to its original normal state .
Point B at first made negative and thus excited is the seat of an increased osmotic pressure , and thus electrolytes are tending to move from it both backwards towards A , thereby annulling the temporarily positively charged state of A , and forwards to C , thereby conferring a negative charge upon C and producing in it the state of desolution and excitation .
Each point in succession\#151 ; point B may be taken as a typical instance\#151 ; is first made negative , then positive , then returns to its state of rest .
Considering the process in terms of the state of electrical potential , the forward movement of the negative charge is ensured , or rather its backward transmission is prevented , by the pursuing positive charge .
Considered in terms of osmotic pressure the facts seem somewhat simpler , since it may or must be considered that the rise and fall of osmotic pressure respectively lag a definite time behind the appearance of the causes producing them .
It is also conceivable that the rise , the release , is a more sudden phenomenon than the fall , the recall .
The facts then arrange themselves in this manner .
The rise of pressure in B occurs at a time when there is still a region of increased pressure behind it at A , but a region of normal low pressure in front of it at C. The tendency is therefore always forwards .
Arranged in these terms the wave of the nervous impulse can be described as a double oscillation in the value of osmotic pressure , the front a rise , the trough a fall .
In order to connect what has been already said of the nature of the " pseudopolarisation " of nerve , and this scheme of nerve-function , it may be well to 1905.J The Stvuctuve ctnd Function of Newe Fihves .
341 consider briefly the relation existing between some of the physical and functional changes produced by the action of a polarising current .
" Pseudo-polarisation , " unlike true polarisation , is fully developed within a very short time from the institution of the current .
The time required being that taken by the colloid solution in responding to a difference of potential .
At the kathode desolution has occurred , and the corresponding rise in local osmotic pressure .
At the anode the contrary change has taken place , and the osmotic pressure has fallen .
At some point intermediate between the poles the normal state is maintained .
At the moment of current closure , the osmotic pressure at the kathode is relatively much greater than the osmotic pressure at a point immediately beyond the kathode than it will ever be again during the continuance of the current , the difference being due to a distinction between the conditions present at the moment of establishment of diffusion , and those present after a steady condition of diffusion has begun .
The negative ion being the faster , this is the only moment when the point beyond the kathode is negative to the kathode itself .
At this moment , therefore , this negativity , due primarily to the initiation of diffusion , produces an excitation in the extrapolar region , and thus causes the travelling nervous impulse characteristic of current closure .
In an extremely excitable nerve it might be expected that the wave of positivity , and therefore of lowered osmotic pressure following in the wake of this transmitted process , might provide an opportunity for a new and almost equally sudden diffusion from the kathode , and therefore for a repetition of the travelling excitation .
In such a case a series of excitations might be started from the kathode , and give rise to a tetanic response of the motor organ .
There is no difficulty in the way of providing a complete explanation for the kathodal phenomena occurring at the moment of current closure .
The ease with which this can be done , however , entails some discussion as to the reasons which determine the absence of a transmitted positive " inhibitory state " starting from the anode , travelling along the nerve with a wake of negativity behind it .
If the fall of osmotic pressure at the anode was as great as the rise of pressure at the kathode , then the use of the same hypothesis would indicate the necessity for such an occurrence .
The fall of osmotic pressure at the anode is , however , in fact , less than the rise at the kathode , and this is determined by the following consideration .
In the state of normal equilibrium of the colloid solution , the amount of inorganic salt present , in a state in which it can exert an osmotic pressure , is comparatively small .
The concentration of the salt solution at this time is about that of a decinormal solution .
When complete coagulation of the colloid has taken place , there is reason for believing that the concentration is very much greater , being somewhere about ten times as great .
A fall of pressure below the normal never involves any great relative difference of pressure , a rise of pressure , however , may entail comparatively great relative differences .
This distinction would seem sufficient to explain the comparative insignificance , and even the complete absence , of the transmission of an " inhibitory nervous impulse " starting from the anode .
When considering the functional changes observed during the time of closure of the current , it is necessary to reckon two sets of physical conditions .
The one set , Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17 ) determined by true polarisation , taking place on the surfaces of the partially permeable sheath of the nerve-fibre , that is , at the nodes of Ranvier .
The other set , determined by " pseudo-polarisation .
" There is a certain similarity between the effects of these two conditions occurring at each pole .
Their consequences are added together in the production of the anelectrotonic and katelectrotonic arrangements of differences of potential .
The two factors , however , have different time relations , the effects of true polarisation gradually increasing , the consequences of pseudo-polarisation " being most marked to begin with , and subsequently declining .
The polar conditions due to true polarisation are sufficiently well understood .
Here it is only necessary to dwell upon the polar conditions due to " pseudo-polarisation .
" During the early stages of current closure , the condition of " pseudopolarisation " gives rise to an increased osmotic pressure in the region of the kathode , a diminished osmotic pressure in the region of the anode .
The partially permeable membrane of the nerve-sheath is more permeable to the negative anion than to the positive kation .
An increase in osmotic pressure will therefore lead to the separation of diffusing ions in the line of this sheath .
The diffusion is in this case outwards , and the faster negative ion therefore communicates its negative charge to the parts outside this sheath , that is to say , to the surface of the nerve .
Each point in the kathodal extrapolar region nearer to the kathode is therefore more negative than more distal points .
The condition due to true polarisation is therefore reinforced .
At the anode , the region initially of diminished osmotic pressure , diffusion is inwards , and the external surface of the nerve possesses the charge of the more slowly diffusing positive kation .
Here , then , the condition of anelectrotonus , due to true polarisation , is reinforced .
From reasons given above , the addition at the anode is much smaller than the addition at the kathode .
The anelectrotonic condition is therefore at first smaller in magnitude than the katelectrotonic condition , both also at first increase in magnitude with the increase of true polarisation .
The condition due to " pseudo-polarisation " is , however , undergoing a diminution with lapse of time , possibly at once accounting for the subsequent serious fall in the value of katelectrotonic condition .
To explain this , it is necessary to spend a few moments .with the details of the condition of " pseudo-polarisation .
" The essence of the condition of " pseudo-polarisation " is the arrangement of the colloid particles of the axis-cylinder in a series of graduated sizes between the poles .
The particles ( aggregates of molecules ) at the anode are smaller than those occurring in normal stretches of the nerve , those at the kathode are bigger and less numerous .
The immediate consequence of this arrangement is the motion of inorganic salts in large quantity in the kathodal region , in small quantity at the anodal region .
This , however , is a condition which cannot remain as permanently as the cause of its original appearance .
The salts diffuse , and finally their distribution must , at least , become far more uniform , and that , too , before the essential condition of " pseudo-polarisation " has been removed .
The electrical consequences of the differential distribution of osmotic pressure inaugurated by ** pseudo-polarisation " are therefore evanescent .
The functional changes of excitability at the poles are primarily dependent upon 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
343 this complicated addition of states , and to them there has still to be added the chemical consequences attending upon true polarisation .
Where there are so many factors to play with , there can be no difficulty in explaining any modification in excitability which may arise .
It is doubtful if there is any advantage gained by doing so .
For the present , it may only he pointed out that there is ample reason to expect a marked difference between the earlier and later stages of these alterations in function .
Having considered in this preliminary way some of the classical phenomena produced by the passage of a current through nerve , it is possible to return to the more interesting subject of function .
We see that the nerve owes its function to the possession of this core of colloid material , and to the property of " pseudo-polarisation/ ' which is an attribute of the colloid material .
There is still , however , another point to expand .
Stress has been laid above on the apparently necessary condition , that the more rapidly moving ion of the electrolyte of the nerve should carry an electrical charge of the same sign as that which leads to the dissolution ( tends to lead to the coagulation ) of the proteid colloids of the nerve .
Introduction of the negative ion being the condition leading to dissolution of the colloid and liberation of the electrolyte , then , if the process is to be transmitted , the motion of the liberated electrolyte must result in the bestowal of a similar charge upon the neighbouring portion of the colloid solution , and therefore the negative anion must have the greater relative velocity .
Let us consider what would happen if this were not the case .
Let us deal with an assumed case , in which the bestowal of a negative charge being the condition essential to dissolution , the positive kation has the greater relative velocity .
Let ABODE represent such a strip of colloid material .
To begin with , the strip is homogeneous , and the distribution of potential , and of osmotic pressure along it , is uniform .
Now , from any exciting cause whatever , let us suppose that the solution in A undergoes a change that in it dissolution takes place , and electrolytes are set free .
Diffusion tends to take place , therefore\#151 ; the positive ion having the greater velocity\#151 ; -B becomes positively charged , and A is left negatively charged .
The condition originally excited in A is hereby exaggerated , and more electrolytes are liberated , provided there is still a further stock to call upon .
This fact would seem to indicate that there will be no further progression of such a process along the strip ABODE , seeing that it certainly determines a more prolonged maintenance of the phenomenon in each spot affected .
'This , however , is not necessarily the case .
B has become positively charged , its colloid particles have therefore gone into a state of more minute subdivision , and some of its inorganic salts have been consequently removed Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. i7\gt ; from the state of simple aqueous solution .
The osmotic pressure in B has fallen .
Considering the effect of this upon C only , we perceive that a diffusion will now tend to take place from C to B. Thus , C will now become negative , and , consequently , the site of liberation of electrolyte^ and of increased osmotic pressure .
Similarly , in its turn , D will become and remain positive , E negative .
Further onwards , every alternate segment will similarly be rendered negative , and the site of an increase in osmotic pressure , until the process has dwindled away , as finally it necessarily must .
The process is therefore , within limits , transmissible , and , although evidently unsuited as the basis of function of a tissue , the prime necessity of which is conduction , is , nevertheless , possibly suited to the requirements of a tissue in which the maintenance of a state of increased osmotic pressure is required in alternate segments of the tissue .
Conceivably , such a process might be suited to fulfil some of the requirements of striated muscle .
Glancing at the accompanying diagram , we see the result of such a process in an arrangement of alternating segments of high and low osmotic pressure respectively .
Compare such a diagram with Macallum 's representation of the potassium salts in muscle , and there is a similarity which is at once worthy of examination .
I have already stated above that , in my opinion , Macallum 's representation must be interpreted as evidence of the existence in muscle ( probably in the contracted state ) of such a disposition of alternating levels of pressure .
Nor need we depend only upon this observation , since Schafer has , some considerable time ago , recorded observations depicting a flow of water from disc to disc of the muscle sarcostyle , such as this condition of alternating segments of high and low osmotic pressure would determine .
There is therefore ample reason to inquire further into the possibilities of this process .
Let us for example inquire how such a strip of -material would react to a mechanical extension .
Mechanical stimulation it is safe to assume would lead to a general tendency towards desolution along the strip in each of the segments into which we have divided it This tendency , from reasons previously given , would affect most the segments in which desolution had already taken place .
In other words , an increased load would lead to an exaggeration of the preceding condition of contraction .
1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
Let us turn to the contracted states of muscle , in which it is known that coagulation has taken place\#151 ; to " rigor mortis " and to " heat rigor .
" Apply a load to muscle in either of these two conditions , and the contracted state is not increased , and why ?
Obviously because ( 1 ) the maximum coagulation has already taken place , and ( 2 ) because the membranes dividing the muscle-fibril and also the muscle-fibre into actual segmented parts have been injured .
Eemove these segmenting membranes and there can be no further contraction , since alternately arranged foci of high and low pressure can produce no externally felt alteration in the whole bulk of the muscle unless definitely separated from one another by partitions preserving their distribution .
In muscle , therefore , we must raise to a high functional value the transecting membranes , which have no place in the function or structure of nerve except that of insulating each individual nerve-fibre .
We must , therefore , when we come to study the effects produced in muscle by the transmission of an electrical current , expect to find the relative importance of true polarisation and " pseudo-polarisation " changing places with one another .
We must therefore also expect to find , in the case of muscle but not of nerve , an appearance of new chemical substances originating from the processes of hydrolysis taking place at veritable " poles " situated at frequent points within the continuity of the muscle-fibril .
In fact in muscle , these processes of polarisation and hydrolysis are probably the servants of another useful purpose .
The osmotic changes in nerve were self-annulling , the whole process admitted of a purely physical explanation .
In muscle , as I have depicted it , the process is different in this particular .
The conditions evoked by it are such as to ensure their own permanence .
It is obvious that the difference must be so .
Nerve is a material adapted for the transmission of energy from point to point .
The external work done in nerve-conduction is infinitesimal .
In muscle , the performance of external work is the main duty of the tissue .
A transmitted excitation proceeding along a muscle-fibril with an inhibition in its wake would be valueless , or of value only as secondarily exciting to some other consequence .
Such a phenomenon might be supposed to occur in the sarcoplasm , provided that a phenomenon of another kind took place in the sarcostyles .
This being the case , it is necessary to provide some factor other than this which shall secure the relaxation of a muscle following upon a sustained contraction .
Conceivably this factor is to be found in the internal true polarisation taking place in every segment of the muscle-fibril ; the separation of alkali at one pole and acid at another .
The further removal of acid out of the muscle may also be conceived to serve some functional end .
Thus in VOL. lxxvi.\#151 ; b. 2 A Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. i7t our theoretical strip with its alternate segments of high and low states of colloid solution , segments which we have now decided must be definitely divided off from one another by intersecting membranes , let us suppose that alkali is formed in the segments where the colloid particles are now larger than normal , that acid is formed in the segments where the state of more minute subdivision exists\#151 ; and this as a secondary consequence of the existence of these states and of the changes in osmotic pressure so caused .
It is conceivable that these chemical facts might be prominently useful in the return of the solutions , the one up to , the other down to its resting state .
In other words , whereas contraction is probably a physical fact produced primarily by physical agency , relaxation must be { see above ) to some extent a chemical fact and may be initiated by the chemical processes resulting from polarisation .
Assuming this hypothesis to be correct , and muscular contraction dependent upon the excitation of a " pseudo-polarisable " colloid solution containing an electrolyte of the kind supposed , it is obvious that a strip of homogeneous colloid solution might become segmented in the manner of the muscle-fibril as a consequence of its initial participation in function .
Excite such a strip a small number of times in comparatively rapid succession .
Arouse in it repeatedly this segmented arrangement of states of colloid solution , and it is to be expected that a permanent differentiation of this kind must ensue .
The one segment is repeatedly affected in one direction , and brought back from that condition to a state of rest ; its neighbour is repeatedly affected in the opposite direction and from thence returned to the same state of rest .
This in fact seems so completely probable a suggestion , that one is inclined to lay stress upon it as a marked instance of the determination of structure by function .
Considering the possibilities of the manner in which the function of the muscle might be served by this creation of conditions of high and low osmotic pressure in such alternate segments , the following points seem worth noticing .
In the first place there is the resulting translation of water , to which it has not been found necessary to attract attention in the case of nerve-function , because of the absence of transverse membranes .
The pressure in the dim bands being raised , and that in the bright bands lowered , water will pass into the dim bands from the neighbouring bright bands .
If the lateral walls of the dim bands yield to the pressure ever so little , then these bands will assume the elliptical form , which they have been seen to adopt .
The result of this process therefore is a movement of water from the longitudinal axis of the fibril , and thus from the longitudinal axis of the fibre , into a series of transverse axes .
This is in itself sufficient to account for the shortening and simultaneous thickening of the fibre as a whole .
1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
347 Tt is natural to turn to the electrical fishes for a further test of the possibilities dealt with above , and it is not surprising to find in them convincing support .
Let us imagine two consecutive muscle-segments , a dim band and a bright band arranged together in a stout connective-tissue covering .
Let us suppose that no intervening membrane has formed between the two segments , so that no considerable redistribution of the water in the two segments ( of any consequence ) can result from a localised liberation of electrolytes into solution .
Further , suppose that a branch of the motor nerve terminates in the dim band , so that the transmitted negative charge of the nervous impulse is bestowed upon the dim band .
The colloid in the dinn band becoming negatively charged , passes into the state of dissolution ^tendency towards coagulation ) , the local osmotic pressure will rise , and ' electrolytes will diffuse into the bright band .
Now , if in this arrangement we have also retained the condition present in muscle , namely , that the positive kation of this diffusing electrolyte is of a greater relative velocity than the negative anion , then the positive charge will be bestowed upon the bright band , and the negativity of the dim band caused by the nerve discharge will be reinforced .
Thus , a current will traverse this piece of tissue in the direction of the greater relative motion of the positive charge -\#151 ; from dim band to bright band .
Surrounding conductors will be traversed by a current in the opposite direction , a current which may be described as passing in the direction of the nerved end of this little organ .
This , then , is an electrical organ , the discharge in which takes the direction defined by Pacini 's rule .
It is just such an organ as , from what has been said previously , we would expect to find as the result of the transmutation of a muscle into an electrical organ .
An organ , however , developed on similar lines from some other colloid solution than that found in muscle might be conceived to contain some other electrolyte , and , indeed , one in which the negative anion possessed the greater relative velocity .
In this case , the segment of the colloid in the immediate vicinity of the nerve-ending would be positively charged as a result of dissolution , and the more distal segment would be negatively charged by the more rapidly moving negative anion .
The discharge , then , Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Apr. 17\gt ; through such an organ would take place towards the nerved end of the organ , and , in the surrounding conductors , a current would pass in the reverse direction , that is to say , away from the nerved end of the orgaQi The colloid solution to make an organ of this new kind might conveniently be taken either from nervous tissue itself , in which the electrolyte is of this character , or it might be taken from epithelial masses elsewhere , since we may conclude , from the constant " ingoing " direction of the current detected in such masses , that here , also , the negative kation is that possessing the more rapid motion .
It is not surprising , therefore , to find that the observations made upon the electrical organ of Malapterurus have served to destroy the all-sufficiency of Pacini 's rule .
It is obvious , also , that once the admissibility of the conceptions thus used to explain the main facts of nerve and muscle function , and the function of the electrical organs of fishes has gained acceptance , the same conception can also be at once advanced in explanation of a large number of the phenomena exhibited by every excitable tissue .
Inhibition and excitation in the central nervous system , in the heart and vascular tissues ; the condition of tone ; the flow of water through secretory surfaces ; in fact , all conditions reacting to nerve discharges with comparative rapidity .
They are also applicable to the case of unnerved tissues , such , for example , as the instance of the ciliated epithelium mentioned previously .
An examination of the " blaze currents , " elicited from so many tissues by Waller , might conceivably reveal many instances which might find their explanation in the use of these conceptions .
In general the conception might be stated briefly thus .
A unit in a state of inhibition is one in which the state of colloid solution is more perfect than normal .
In this condition the inorganic salts , and therefore the electrolytes , are mostly bereft of all the influence they possess in virtue of the number and motion of their molecules .
A unit in a state of excitation is one , on the other hand , in which these molecules are in a state of motion , a condition produced by the degradation of the colloid solution of the unit .
A unit in a state of tone is in a condition intermediate between these states .
Again , characteristic differences between the functions of different units may in some cases find their explanation in the comparative freedom allowed to the released molecules , and also to physical differences between the molecules released , such as differences in electrical charge and rate of motion .
Returning for a moment to the special case of nerve , it might be pointed out that the hypothesis would lead one to expect the possibility of finding nerve-fibres capable of communicating a positive charge , in place of the more usual negative charge , to the tissues innervated by them .
This might 1905 .
] The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
349 conceivably be accomplished in two different ways .
In the one case a nerve-fibre excited itself by a negative charge , and transmitting a negative charge to successive portions of its length , might possess a small terminal portion , a membrane , which reversed the condition prevalent in the remainder of the fibre by permitting the more rapid migration of the positive ion , and checking the movement of the naturally more rapid negative ion .
In this case there would be a condition as a corollary to this .
The terminal portion of the fibre abutting upon the membrane would be left in a state of continuous excitation involving a prolonged communication of positive charges to the innervated tissue , and a prevalence in it of a condition of inhibition .
The other case conceivable is one in which the colloid solution of the nerve-fibre was excited by a positive charge , and contained an electrolyte the positive ion of which was the more rapid in its migration .
Such a nerve-fibre would be excited at the anode of a polarising current , in the manner in which there is some evidence that certain afferent fibres are excited .
It should be pointed out that , in such a case , there would be no reason to expect the " action current " to differ in kind from the action current of an ordinary nerve-fibre , the direction of the action current being primarily determined by the impermeability of the sheath of the fibre to the positive ion .
The negative variation of the injury current , and the injury current itself , might differ , notwithstanding the predominant influence of this sheath , in their production also , but the degree to which this difference might rise could not be anticipated without at first exactly determining the nature of the permeability of the sheath .
In conclusion , I would like to offer a few words in explanation of the attitude , which I have now for some time adopted , in a series of investigations undertaken in the hope of throwing some light upon nerve-function .
The nature of the conditions conducive to an exhibition of increased nerve excitability , as , for instance , the increased excitability to mechanical stimuli shown during cooling of the nerve , has long convinced me of the improbability of the attempt made to explain nerve-function in terms of chemical reactions .
I have therefore continuously sought for a possible physical explanation of this process .
The most probable explanation , in terms of physical conditions , was an electrical one .
From this point of view , the main characteristic of nerve was the number , character , and arrangement of the electrolytes contained within it .
These things being unknown , remained to be discovered , but the chances of their discovery were being continually diminished by the tendency to explain all the physical phenomena of nerve in terms of functional ability and activity .
To me the ability to function was equivalent to the retention of some favourable disposition of electrolytes , the act of function the motion of electrolytes .
I have therefore strongly resisted the introduction of terms conveying other than a purely physical meaning , and , most of all , have resisted the mention of the 350 The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres .
word 11 excitation , " as affording a complete explanation of the origin of one of the most interesting physical phenomena of nerve\#151 ; the injury-current .
This phenomenon I carefully examined .
The evidence and the arguments which had been previously made use of to associate this phenomenon with secondary consequences of injury were , as I found and explained , quite inconclusive .
These arguments also were misleading , since their tendency was to detract from the interest taken in that most important feature of the nerve , its physical structure .
They tended , for example , to separate this " injury-current " as a functional occurrence , from the facts of the electrical conductivity of nerve , in which I was certain lay the key to its meaning .
I therefore planned the steps of my investigation on the assumption that this phenomenon was dependent upon facts entirely similar to those upon which the electrical conductivity was confessedly dependent , that is to say , upon the number , character , and arrangement of the electrolytes permanently present in the nerve .
None of the relations elicited by me in the course of this investigation led me at any moment to doubt the truth of this conception .
I was , however , compelled , at its close , to admit that these electrolytes were present in a more liberated condition in the neighbourhood of the injury than elsewhere .
The word excitation , however , which might then have been conceivably introduced into the statement of this fact , involved so many conceptions foreign to my meaning , and possessing no relation to the facts discovered , that I carefully avoided\#151 ; or rather resisted\#151 ; its introduction .
The fact made clear from the results of this investigation , that there were more electrolytes in motion at the site of injury than in other parts of the nerve , ran a great risk of being accepted as a proof that new electrolytes ( simple waste products ) were being freshly formed there as a consequence of some localised chemical change .
Now the facts are different , the actual nature of the electrolytes concerned has been in great measure determined .
They have been definitely found to be of the kind suspected by me\#151 ; inorganic salts , permanent constituents of the axis-cylinder .
It is therefore possible to speak of this portion of the axis-cylinder in very definite terms .
It is a portion containing a concentrated aqueous solution of a potassium salt , and some partially coagulated proteid , and in these conditions it is unlike other portions of the axis-cylinder .
One is therefore in a position clearly to face questions asked with the object of seeking to link its existence , and the consequences of its existence , in terms of nerve-function .
Personally , I would arrange the facts in these terms .
The factor in this condition of importance to the remainder of the nerve-fibre is the presence of so much potassium salt .
The existence of so -much potassium salt in a state of simple solution is the consequence of a violent stimulation .
The consequences involved by the presence of this salt are ( 1 ) the invasion of neighbouring portions of the fibre by salt diffusing from this point , and ( 2 ) a resultant alteration in the electrical potential of points in the axis-cylinder .
The direct consequence of the entrance of potassium salt , properly belonging to another portion of the fibre , is some secondary coagulation .
The direct consequence of the alteration in potential is to render inexcitable the immediately neighbouring portion of the axis-cylinder , and to render more excitable more distant regions .

