Some Reflexions Made on the enlarged Account of Dr Witties Answer to Hydrologia Chymica in Numb 51 .
of these Tracts ; chiefly concerning the Cause of the sudden loss of the virtues of Mineral waters .
These Notes were made by the Learned Dr Daniel Foot , in a friendly Letter of his ( dated October 11th .
1669 .
) to the Publisher , as follows .
Sir YOur lost published Transactions No 51 .
have administred the occasion , and the Candour , I know you possess , hath encouraged me to give you this trouble .
In your enlarged account of D. Witties Answer to Hydrol .
Chymica , p. 1039 .
l. 21 .
you say ; This I had not here mentioned , but to introduce our Authors weighty remark ; That these waters loose all their virtue , yea their quant and bulk also , though in Glasses and under the Hermetick seal , if removed from the fountain-head &amp;c. Now , Sir , it is a truth , if not universally , yet generally known and assented to by unlearned as well as learned , that some sort of Medicinal cinal waters loose their virtue , if removed to any considerable distance from their fountain head ; but others do not , at least not so soon .
To this last sort belong such , as are our Barnet , Epsham and Dullidge waters ; to the other sort belong our Tunbridg , Astrap and * Stall-bridge-waters ; and all such like here or else where : And the common usage of the Sick , taken from the adviss of their Physicians , and the Experience of all , in repairing to those respective places , sufficiently proves the common consent thereunto .
* This was in Numb. 51 .
by a mistake placed in Someset , whereas it lies in Dorset-shire .
But though the effect be so plain and manifest , yet the cause thereof seems not to me so pl inly discovered ; and because you are pleased to your fore-cited words to subjoyne these ; And even their quantity and bulk also , though in Glasses and under the Herm .
Seal &amp; c : I suppose , you intimate and offer , that the cause of the loss of their Medicinal virtues is upon the loss of their quantity and bu k : which also you aptly strengthen by the authority of the famous Doctors , French , ab Heer , and Frambesarius ; and then in a~ you put altogether , and cautiously say ( doubtless thorough the loss of the Volatile Spirits ) &amp;c. And in the beginning of the very next paragraph you go on thus ; Whatever these Spirits be , that will neither endure to travel from the Place , nor will be confined in any bottle , nor under any seal &amp;c. So that the sum of your Conjecture ( for as other you propose it not)is , That this loss consists in the Avolation of some most subtle and penetrating Spirituous parts , not to be imprisoned by any enclosure imaginable , but will find their way out , and leave the waters berest of virtue , and decreased in quantiy too , and ( what more is ) perhaps of their weight also , especially if they loose of their quantity .
But to this last you modestly add , Here we want instruction , whether that decrease was as well of weight , as of bulk &amp; .
That thus Conjecture of yours concerning the Cause of the loss of virtues in these waters carried from their Spring , may be true , I do not absolutely deny , but further acknowledge , that it is the sentiment of very many , if not all , Physicians and Naturalists , that have concerned themselves with the consideration thereof ; and I my self have entertained the very same Ggggg2 thoughts thoughts of it , and doe not now but suppositively relinquish them .
But having lately , in reading Tachenius 's Hippocr .
Chymicus ( newly recommended by your self in No. 50 .
of your Transact. ) found c. 16 .
somewhat relating to this matter ; I began by the encouragement of his authority to resume some Conjectures touching the same , which I had , if not abandoned , yet kept suppressed in silence , which indeed are of another kind , but how true I yet know not .
Wherefore I thought , it might not be very un-accepable to you , if I desired you , publickely to give notice of these Conjectures , that the Learned may reason and find out the truth of them ; whence may result no few nor very unuseful discovery 's for the increase of knowledge , the benefit of mankind , and the glory of the Creator of all .
In order thereunto I desire , you will propose these or such like Queries ; 1 .
Whether by Chemical researches it was ever yet or can be found , that such waters as the above-said , ever yielded either a Vinous or an Acid , or any other sort of Spirits , that were eithet inflammable , or un-inflammable , or flying over the Helm from the fire .
2 .
Whether all these sorts of Waters , when they are most closely stopped up , and so let stand , or conveyed to some distance , doe not let fall a sd iment ( most commonly ) yellowish , or of some such colour , when they are become effaete in their vessels .
3 .
Whether , when they are let stand only , and not moved by carriage , they do not sooner become castrated , and sooner precipitate an Ochre to the bottom ?
4 .
Whether such an Ochre is not found in all their Springheads , and Streams also ; but more in the Head than in the Streams , especially if issued there-from to a good distance .
5 .
Whether it may not be found upon due Observation , that two Bottles of the said waters , whereof the one being indust ously stopped , the other left unstopt , and both equally permitted to stand still or equally moved , will not equally loose their virtues Medicall in the same space of time , and have the same precipitated sediment , and be of the same taste , colour , and alike diminished in quantity , with divers others such like circumstances ?
6 .
Whether two Vessels , diversified in their matter , and consequently in their parts , pores and figures of the whole ( as e. g. a Glass-bottle and an Oxe-bladder , or any two such like ) filled with such waters , will not yield the like Phenomenon in all circumstances , as in the 5th Query are mentioned ?
7 .
Whether it may be devised , how to preven t all precipitation of sediment in the Waters vesseled up ; and then to observe thereupon , whither their virtues would not be kept entire during such a prevention ?
8 .
Whether any Observer ever found the Waters enervated but found withal an Ochre , let fall to the bottom or sides of the containing vessel ?
9 .
To be brief , Whether the Phenomenon of loss of virtues in such Waters may by an Hypothesis of an intestine Precipitation of their parts , wherein those virtues consisted , be as well ( if not better ) explicated , than by the Hypothesis of an Avolation of Spirituous parts through all Vessels and closures whatsoever : Which Hypothesis that it may be the better weighed , I shall only exhibit it , and leave it to the Ingenious and Learned to conclude concerning it .
First therefore it is generally received amongst most , especially the more polite , Chemical Authors and Students , That , if any Medical virtues be in Minerals or Metals , it consists in their Sulphurs ; which are of a Volatile and Alcalisate property ; especially when not intimately conmmix't with , or after commixtion perfectly freed from their Mercurial parts .
Next , its as much received , even to become a Cymical Maxim , That Acids and Alcaly 's mutually operate upon one another to a satiety , to an abating , and ( if circumstances correspond ) to an utter amission of their former activities , and lastly to a production of a Tertium neutrum .
A gain they alike conclude , that Salts act best in a State of Solution .
All which Premises thus concenter in this Hypothesis ; That the Waters , which materially make some Springs , passing under ground by the vein of some Mettal , which yet is in fieri , having first taken up of an Acide Salt which is in the Earth , thereby catches hold on the immature Sulphur of that Mettal , and presently glides it along with it self to the Springs orifice , and from the moment of the Sulphur and Acide Salt 's meeting and contact begins a mutual action and reaction upon one another which never ceateth ; till both are imperceptibly spent , and blended into a newBody , which then the water lets fall , and we call an Earth , Ochre , or Sediment : After the production of which Ochre , the Medicinal virtues of the immature Sulphur is locked up into the inseparable embraces of the A id Salt , and so is lost , or at least disappears .
But this mutual action and reaction may last , till the Waters issue out of the Earth , and for some small time longer , and so long their Medical virtues are to be imparted , and no longer .
This , Sir , is the Hypothesis of Tachenius ( if I rightly apprehend him ) which I send , not to have it Justle out the more received one , or any other that may be proposed ; but that it may have its Trial , and accordingly may live or dye .
I could allege more in its behalf , especially in the particular of such a Body , as we commonly call an Ochre ; resulting from divers Experiments of Vitriol : but I have trespassed too much already to hope for pardon from any , but &amp;c.

