An Abstract of a Letter from Mr. J. Flamsteed , Math. Reg. &amp; F. of the R. S. giving an account of the Eclipses of ~s Satellits , anno 1686 ; and containing a Table of the Parallaxes of ~s Orb , and an Ephemeris of ~s Geocentric Places for the same year .
Sir , I Give you here the Eclipses of Jupiters Satellits for the next year 1686 , deduced from the same numbers by which I calculated those of the years 1684 , and 1685 , printed in the Transactions .
I shall not need to show here again , how to find within what limits on our Earth any of them , not visible with us , will be observable ; having done it already both in English and Latin in those Tracts ; I shall therefore only tell you that all my observations of them since made , ( which have not been many by reason of our much cloudy weather and my frequent avocations , ) have fully made good my assertions concerning them , and that I have not found my numbers at any time since to err above one minute in the Eclipses of the first or innermost Satellit ; so that if a way were found of managing a Tube of 8 , 10 , or 12 foot long at Sea , and Observing the time as exactly as we can at land , Observations of these Eclipses would certainly give us the difference of Longitude , as exactly as the Latitudes are pretended to be Observed by our more knowing Sea-Men , and certainly much better then the Observations of Lunar Eclipses .
How the differences of Longitude are gained by them , you will see by the following Examples , the latter of which I have purposely produced to show the good agreement of my numbers with the heavens .
Anno 1680 , October 23 , old Stile , Signior Joseph Ponthia , and Marco Antonio Cellio with a Telescope of 25 Palms long , Observed the total Immersion of the first Satellit into ~ shadow at Rome at 10h .
07~ .
53~ .
p. m , which h in our Observatory here I noted at 9 .
15 .
41 , whose difference is the difference of our Meridians = 52~-12~ , or 13~ .
0~3 .
Again , January the 28 1685 , Signior Francis Blanchini , having received my Catalogue of the Eclipses of the Satellits for that year , observed the total Immersion of the 1st at Rome , at 11h .
19~ which I saw not here , but my numbers give at 10 .
27~ .
Therefore the difference of Meridians is 0 52~ ; and Rome lies so much more Easterly then the Observatory at Greenwich , agreeing with the former observation , and showing the error of the Tables to be insensible .
The noble Tycho judged therefore not much amiss , when he placed Uraniburg and Rome under the same Meridian ; for by several observations of Satellit Eclipses , it is evident , that the difference of Meridians betwixt Uraniburg and our Observatory is 51~ .
10~ .
of time , so that Rome lies only one minute of time or ~ of a degree to the East of Uraniburg .
Some Ingenuous persons having often wished that such Tables of the Satellits motions were published , as might serve to find their appearences at any given time , tho I think it not fit ( by reason they are capable of much Correction and great improvement ) to publish mine at present : yet for the sake of the diligent observer , I have contrived a small Instrument , whereby with the sole help of the following Catalogue , and the Table of the Parallaxes of ~ orb , their distances from the Axis of ~ may be found to any given time within the compass of the next year , and for any future year by the like Tables .
To To make the Catalogue of Eclipses , as also the Table of the Parallaxes of ~ , it was necessary first to make a Table of ~ Heliocentrick places , to which the Parallaxes being applied , give the Geocentrick .
The vulgar Ephemerides are very faulty in this Planet , and no good one being extant this year , I here give you a copy of mine deduced from my own corrected Tables , which I am persuaded will be of good use and very acceptable to the Ingenuous Student of Astronomy .

