322 Dr. L. Bleekrode on Electrical Conductivity [ Nov. 16 , Table III .
( ) .
Winter months .
1870-71 , 1871-72 .
1872-73 .
1873-74 .
1874-75 .
1875-76 .
Mean .
Semi- annual mean .
October November ... December ... January February ... March 1 It -11 12 \#151 ; 3 26 0 0 + 7 26 +16 44 - 5 47 i / / +0 23 -3 44 -4 32 -2 37 -6 45 -4 27 i a -5 31 +0 11 +5 9 +4 2 +6 12 +0 50 t II -1 31 +0 39 +4 53 +5 4 -1 31 -4 12 1 II +5 20 +5 27 +4 32 +1 6 +3 10 -2 1 1 II +3 16 -4 21 -7 44 -2 41 -0 42 -1 42 / a -1 33 -0 52 +0 23 +2 3 +2 51 -2 53 / / / t -0 0-2 / Yearly means -14 -2 40 +0 1 +2 18 +2 26 -1 3 This Table shows that we can only rely on the monthly determinations to within 2 ' 55 " , even excluding the result for February 1871 ; but the mean value for the whole epoch has only a probable error of 21 " .
The weekly readings that are now being taken will , it is hoped , sufficiently reduce the probable error of the monthly means .
Summing up the general results of the observations with respect to the main point at issue , viz. the existence of a semiannual inequality in the magnetic elements , it is satisfactory to find a complete confirmation of the conclusion of Sir E. Sabine , that a nearer approach of the sun in the winter months produces a very sensible increase in all the elements of terrestrial magnetism .
III .
" On Electrical Conductivity and Electrolysis in Chemical Compounds .
" By Dr. L. Bleekrode .
Communicated by Warren De La Rue , D.C.L. , E.R.S. Received October 2 , 1876 .
S 1 .
Introduction .
In presenting this communication to the Royal Society I wish to state that it is only an abstract of a more extensive paper on the same subject which I hope to publish shortly , and which contains an account of experiments with nearly seventy substances , most of which were never used before for such an investigation .
I tried also nearly all the liquefied gases , and a considerable time was spent in preparing them for this kind of research , that was often interrupted by fearful explosions .
The invaluable opportunity which Mr. Warren De La Rue , F.R.S. , granted me some time ago to try the same compounds with his very powerful battery , led to results which I hope the Society will not consider devoid of interest .
I entered on these experiments with the purpose of establishing , if possible , a relation between electrical conductivity and chemical consti1876 .
] and Electrolysis in Chemical Compounds .
323 tution , and to ascertain if the presence of hydrogen in the compound ( and hydrogen can easily be replaced by other substances , especially metals ) is connected with the liability to electrolysis .
Though in former years some experiments were made in this way in Germany , I have now had the opportunity of extending them very much , as I used the compounds which modern organic chemistry has taught us since to prepare .
It is also important to remark that I only tried substances which are in a fluid condition , or can be reduced to it without requiring a solvent .
It is sufficiently known that the solvent generally is electrolyzed at the same time , and the results become very complicated ; therefore the gases in their liquefied state were especially fit for examination , the more so because several of them are very often used in chemistry as powerful agents .
The gases were liquefied by the method first proposed by Faraday , in strong glass tubes , which had platinum wires fused in at their extremities ; these ends were brought close together , at a distance of 2 , 3 , or 4 millims , , in the closed end of the tube ; this part was , after the liquefaction took place , filled with the liquid gas .
With substances liquid at the ordinary temperature and pressure , the same arrangement was made , but of course there was then no difficulty .
I successively caused a current of 10 , 20 , 40 , and 80 galvanic cells ( greatest size of Bunsen 's ) to pass through the liquids , and connected them at the same time with a very delicate galvanometer .
I also used the spark of an induction-coil , the length of which exceeded 75 millims. With this apparatus the condensed gases generally exploded , and the other substances were decomposed by the thermal effect of the spark : it was a case of dissociation .
As to the galvanic current , even the strongest did not pass in a perceptible way through the following compounds ( amongst others ) :\#151 ; liquid carbonic acid , liquid hydrochloric acid ( nor any other hydrogenated acid , as BrH , IH , with exception of CNH ) , liquid cyanogen , bisulphide of carbon , benzine , tin tetrachloride , zinc-ethyl .
Liquefied ammonia forms a remarkable exception ; it conducts the galvanic current even of a moderate battery very well , and it is at the same time electrolyzed ; with a battery of 80 cells apparently a new body is separated , because the liquid becomes of an intense blue colour , and much gas is evolved .
I shall communicate more particulars on this subject in my aforesaid paper .
Now , though it may be worthy of remark that a compound like hydrochloric acid , when in the liquid condition , opposes a formidable resistance to a galvanic current , which may be called very strong in comparison with those which are generally used for electrolytical purposes , I confess I was not satisfied till I had tried the most powerful current that ever has been produced : it is the current of the chloride-of-silver battery of Mr. Warren De La Hue ; and as I proposed during my stay in London to carry on this investigation , he not only most willingly consented to my Dr. L. Bleekrode on Electrical Conductivity [ Nov. 16 , proposal , but I bad also the favour of his highly esteemed aid in the experiments we thus made together* .
S 2 .
Effects of the Current of a Battery of 8040 cells on strongly insulating liquids .
By Dr. L. Bleekrode , aided by Warren De La Hue , F.R.S. At the time of these experiments , the battery , which has been already the subject of some communications to the Royal Society , had attained a number of 8040 cells , which could be separately used in different series , so as to obtain currents of various intensity ; the longest spark produced between a point positive and a disk negative in free air had a length of 8*5 millims. ( 0#348 inch ) .
We tried only the liquids named above ; though few in number , yet they are interesting from their constitution and their importance as chemical compounds .
The following notes were made as we experimented on the substances ready for examination .
I. Ammonia ( Hg N ) .
The current of 3240 cells confirmed the results obtained already on a former occasion , when the ordinary galvanic battery of 80 cells was used , only the effect was stronger now .
Streams of a deep blue colour arose in the liquid gas , and the positive electrode assumed a black colour , much gas being evolved at the same time .
When the current ceases , the blue colour rapidly disappears , and the liquid becomes bright again .
II .
Bisulphide of Carbon ( CS2 ) .
We first tried the current from 3240 cells ; the negative electrode , some inches in length , was seen to be repelled from the surface of the liquid till it came in contact with the glass of the tube ; and it appeared from some floating particles that internal motions took place , probably caused by heat , though the hand did not detect any elevation of temperature .
The current from 5640 cells was too strong ; then the spark jumped between the electrodes , and these were covered with a brown tint ( from a deposit of carbon ) .
We tried afterwards if a polarization current could be detected on a Thomson galvanometer ; but this failed , yet the instrument was very sensible .
If two fingers were placed on the ends of the connecting wires , the current which was excited by this contact was strong enough to cause the luminous index to fly away off the whole scale .
HI .
Benzine ( C6H6 ) .
With 3240 cells a strong vibratory motion was observed in the liquid .
With 5640 cells this motion increased and became more apparent , also a ringing sound ( very similar to that emitted by the contact-breaker of a * I owe also many thanks to Prof. Frankland , who granted me all the facilities of his chemical laboratory in the Science Schools , South Kensington , and to his assistant , Mr. Cameron , for his valuable aid in preparing these substances* 1876 .
] and Electrolysis in Chemical .
325 moderate induction-coil when active ) was heard .
This was caused by one of the electrodes , the longest , that passed through the whole tube , and therefore was somewhat free in its movement ; the passage of the current into the liquid set it in a vibratory condition , and the benzine presented an undulating surface .
The effect was the strongest when the wire was negative , and the surface of the liquid was then depressed ; when the long wire was positive the contrary was observed , the vibrations were less and the fluid ran up the wire .
We did not find any sign of a polarization current .
The peculiar phenomenon of vibrations seems to be connected with a beautiful experiment which Mr. Warren De La Rue discovered before .
When one of the terminal wires of the battery of 8040 cells ended in a flat horizontal copper disk , and the other in a very fine platinum wire ( .002 inch ) placed above it , a little further than the striking distance , the platinum electrode being negative , the electricity streamed out of the wire with a luminous appearance ; but the wire was at the same time in a vibratory condition , as it described a luminous circle ( sometimes changing into an ellipse ) .
When the platinum wire was positive the vibrations were not so strong , and therefore the radius of the circle described was less .
IV .
Tin tetrachloride ( SnCl4 ) .
The current from 8040 cells passing through the liquid caused strong vibrations when the long wire ( electrode ) was negative , otherwise the vibrations were less when it was positive .
We could not detect any current caused by polarization , nor any sign of decomposition .
V. Carbonic acid ( C02 ) .
We tried liquid carbonic acid gas at once with the current from 5640 cells .
This was too much for the small space between theelee-trodes ; the spark jumped between them , and the heat developed caused the tube to explode with great violence .
Notwithstanding we may conclude that this liquid gas also must be a very bad conductor , as sparks never appear in conducting substances .
VI .
Hydrochloric acid ( HC1 ) .
The liquid hydrochloric acid gas was prepared from chloride of ammonium and concentrated sulphuric acid , which had been previously put into the tube and brought gradually into contact ; the gas evolved had to pass through the acid , and was in this way deprived of moisture .
At first a series of 2160 cells was used , but without result , no action being visible ; afterwards we tried the current from 3240 cells , and the vibrations in the liquid were then very apparent by the undulating surface ; at last 5640 cells were applied , when the ringing sound became audible from the vibrating electrode .
We did not use the whole series for fear of an explosion possibly occurring by the spark jumping ; yet the 326 Dr. L. Bleekrode on Electrical Conductivity [ Nov. 6 , experiment was sufficient to conclude that the liquid gas ( which , dissolved in water , belongs to the best conductors ) opposes a formidable resistance even to an extraordinarily strong galvanic current , and is not decomposed in a perceptible way .
VII .
Cyanogen ( C2 N2 ) .
The current from 3240 cells did not produce any effect on the liquid gas .
With 5640 cells the vibrations were very apparent ; and again we observed the same difference between the negative and the positive electrode as with the benzine , the liquid running up the wire when it was positive .
No polarization was detected .
VIII .
Zinc-ethyl ( Zn(C2 H.)2 ) .
With 3240 cells vibratory motions were observed in this liquid .
They were very beautiful when the battery was increased to 5640 cells ; the temperature of the liquid augmented now sensibly .
Afterwards we detected a current caused by polarization of the electrodes , which produced a deflection of five divisions on the scale .
IVe have therefore reason to conclude that electrolytic action took place , which may be accompanied therefore by vibratory motions in the liquid , though a very strong galvanic current is required .
IX .
Benzine ( C8 He ) .
The experiment III .
with benzine was repeated in order to ascertain , if possible , whether a current could pass through a compound without electrolysis .
The whole series of 8040 cells was now applied , and the spark jumped between the electrodes .
A large deposit of carbonaceous matter was observed throughout the liquid , and was undoubtedly separated by the heat of the sparks .
We had another tube with electrodes at a somewhat greater distance , and the current wTas kept passing during two minutes .
No sparks jumped , and the liquid was in a strong vibratory condition , showing that the electricity was transmitted , yet we could not afterwards detect the slightest deflection caused by polarization .
We observed also that the electrodes after the experiment were still very clean .
Now it must be remarked that with liquids which proved themselves extremely bad conductors , the absence of a polarization current , when tested with the galvanometer , cannot lead to the conclusion that no electrolysis at all took place ; for the great resistance which the current of the whole battery of 8040 cells had to overcome in the case of benzine was so much weakened , that it caused only a deflection of about 55 divisions on the scale of the sensitive Thomson galvanometer placed in the circuit ; the same resistance in the liquid was obviously opposed to the feeble current that might result from polarization , which must therefore be unable to act on the galvanometer .
The polaiization current can then be no longer applied as a test for electrolysis in all cases .
1876 .
] and Electrolysis in Chemical Compounds .
327 If the same current was conducted through pure water , immediately a copious quantity of gas was evolved , but nothing of a vibratory motion in the liquid was visible .
This seems only to occur in the case of highly insulating liquids , and illustrates the conduction of electricity in the way which was called by Faraday " the carrying discharge ; this acts mechanically ; and it appears that the greater part of electricity is then transported by the molecules without their splitting up , as in the case of electrolysis .
The results of the experiments carried on in this investigation , with regard to electrolysis , may thus be stated:\#151 ; 1 .
A general connexion between definite chemical characters and liability to electrolysis seems not to exist .
The character that a compound contains hydrogen , which is easily replaced by a metal or radicals , or that it contains a metal for which another may be easily substituted , is not always accompanied with the conductive power that is required for electrolysis .
With liquid ammonia this is the case , but with zinc-ethyle ( which in contact with air bursts into flames , and is destroyed from its Zn changing into ZnO ) , benzine ( which is easily transformed in different compounds by substitution ) , and tetrachloride of tin an enormous resistance is offered to the most powerful galvanic current ever used .
2 .
Sometimes a very bad conductive power is accompanied by a great difficulty in getting the hydrogen replaced in the compound .
A remarkable example of this fact is offered by liquid hydrochloric acid ; this compound was kept for months , even years , in contact with strips of zinc , and up to the present time very little action is perceptible .
Gore* has communicated several experiments of this kind with similar results .
3 .
It appears that it is not the nature of the actual constituents in the compound which renders it proper to conduct electricity ; but that this is more dependent on the inner arrangement of the molecules .
4 .
Although in the case of very bad conductors , as liquid carbonic acid and liquid hydrochloric acid , no test for electrolysis can be applied , yet it must not be concluded that they may not be decomposed by electrical agency .
By using spirals of zinc and platinumf twisted together for a considerable space of time , they were actually split up ; this fact shall be further elucidated in the paper mentioned in S 1 .
The Hague , September 1876 .
* Phil. Mag. [ IV .
] yoI .
xxix .
p. 543 ( 1865 ) .
t Gladstone and Tribe used this combination to analyze water and some organic compounds ( Journal of the Chem. Society , 1872 , p. 461 ) .

