]\gt ; Vortices Liquid .
which can be produced in an ice-crystal at right angles to the optic axis very closely obeys the laws of viscous flow .
If this view should ) sustained , it is not only true , as Professor H. A. Miers shows , that a liquid of low viscosity may have a crystalline structure , but also that , as in the case of crystalline ice , a solid may be liquid along one plane only .
the equation to the curve on Diagram I , the viscosity of an icecrystal in a direction at right angles to the optic axis is about 2 at the freezing point .
At this temperature the viscosity of a glacier is about , or 6250 times as great .
The effective viscosity of a glacier is therefore due in a great measure to some other consideration .
The optic axes of glacier grains are at all angles and they lock each other .
I am much indebted to Mr. P. H. Parr for the assistance he has rendered in calculating the results from the Vortices / Liquid .
By , O.M. , Pres. R.S. ( Received July 25 , 1908 .
) In a paper\ldquo ; on the Circulation of Air observed in Kundt 's Tubes , and on some Allied Acoustical Problems *I applied the equations of viscous incompressible fluid to show that the effect of the bottom of the vessel was to generate permanent vortices in the vibrating fluid .
It was remarkable that the intensity of the vortical motion , when fully established , proved to be independent of the magnitude of the viscosity , so that the effects could not be eliminated by merely supposing the viscosity to become extremely small .
The expression found for the vortices was simple .
The horizontal component of the primary motion near the bottom being , the component yelocities of the vortical motion are , being measured ) wards from bottom , and the velocity of propagation of waves of the length in question .
According to these 'Phil .
TIans vol. 1 p. 1 , 1883 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 239 .
Lord Rayleigh .
[ July 25 , expressions , the vortical motion is downwards over the places where has its eatest alternating values .
In the case of water contained in a tank and vibrating in its simplest mode , the theoretical motion is downwards in the middle and upwards at the ends .
To ) against misinterpretation , it may well to add that quite close to the bottom the motion , as calculated , is of a quite different character .
In a recent paper , .
Ayrton has examined , with much experimental skill , the iCeS arising water oscillates in a narrow tank , and has obtained results which differ somewhat widely from what are indicated in the aboye .
Near the boCtonl , and especially when the depth is small , there are indeed vortices of this character ; but , , the most conspicuous feature consists of vortices revolving in the opposite direction , the water rising in the middle of the tank and falling at the ends .
The first thought that occurred to me was that Mrs. Ayrton 's vortices might be due to defect of freedom in the surface , such as might ) Rupposed to arise from a greasy film extensions and contractions ; in some experiments that I tried , the vortical motion did not seem to ) much influenced by the surface , and the question was ested as to whether the free surface itself might not inate vortices in somewhat the same } ' as the bottom and more potently 011 account of the greater velocities of the motion there prevailing .
I do not leulcml)er whether I had any clear view this question when I wrote the former paper .
Vortices otherwise than at the ] ) ottom were nored , but I may not have intended to exclude their possibility .
Tho consists mainly of ' nn ttelmpt to answer the question suggested .
is limiled to the case of deep water , and eve then is rather complicated .
If the calculations correct , we are to conclude that a free surface docs / generate ortices of this kind , at if .suppose the viscosity small and include only the square of the lnotion .
hell are the ices , by .
Ayrton , to be explained : might attribute thenn to of the taok , much ottom docs in my former } .
In the latter the of the forces is near the parts luidw veen the middle of tank nd the ends , and to the fluid in the direction away from the place of .
A like action at the of the tank would push the nei0 , and thus enerate revolvin in the observed direction .
An objection to this lies in ) servalion by .
Ayrton on water in " " On the Non-Periodic Rebidual Motion of WateI moving in ] StationaIy Waves ' oc , vol. 80 , p. 252 , 1908 .
1908 .
] Vortices in Liquid .
tank with several subdivisions ( p. 255 ) .
Since no solid walls are situated at the intermediate nodes , it may be thought that the action at the ends would be insufficient to establish the whole system of vortices .
Probably this would be so .
But another influence acting in the same direction may arise from the faces of the somewhat narrow tanks employed .
It would seem that at the nodes , , the friction in up and down the faces have the effect as the up-and-down motion alon the solid walls which constitute the ends .
But I must confess that some observations made with the lelp of Mrs. Sidgwick were not favourable to this view .
The ends of the tank were eliminated by using the annular space between two cylinders , ( beakers ) , but the vortical motion did not seem to be diminished .
The insertion of a strip of lass C held vertically across the annulus , and thus virtually one end , did not make much ] , if any , difference .
This experiment seems to exclude the explanation depending upon the action of the , and that which would attribute the effect to the faccs is difficult to reconcile with the highly localised charactel of the effect , which at first seems to be limited to the immediate neighbourhood of ] ends .
Can it be that the true explanation would require retention of terms of higher order than the of the motion ?
I may mention that on more than one occasion I have witI ) esse the reversed movement described .
Ayrton on p. 259 , " " as if a set of -ater springs had been wound up , and now to themselves I that the depends upon upon unequal densities in the fluid , the either to temperature or to variations in the amount of vder held in suspension .
Another possible explanation would lie in the effect of surface contalnination .
In the usual notation the equations of motion in two dinlcnsions are ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) Lord [ July 25 , where is measured vertically upwards , und is the kinematic viscosity .
Since the fluid is supposed to be incompressible , ; ( 3 ) or what is equivalent , ( 4 ) the stream-fnncliou .
In irtue of ( 4 ) , , have in ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) It may be vell to commence with the question 01 stationary aves , carl.ied to the second order of approximation , when viscosity is ected .
If we eliminate from ( 1 ) , putting at the same , we find .
( 6 was to be expected from the eneral theory a fricfionless Huitl , solntion of ( 6 ) order of pproximation is .
( 7 We no assulne that the nloCion is periodic ith x\mdash ; proportional .
to so as the Hrst ] ) tion is concern ed. Thus for imation we take , ( 8 the in hnissible , excluded ) the consideration that all motion must vanish when , inasmnch as the fluid infinitely deel ) .
to ( 8 ) , ( 9 so .
( 11 ) In virtue , ( 7 ) , the tions of ) cssure ) .
' : si ( 12 ) 1908 .
] Vortices in Oscillating where denotes a function of which is arbitrary so far as the differential equations of pressure are concerned .
The pressure at the surface is to be found from ( 12 ) by putting , where is the elevation of the surface at the point in question .
The relation between and is thus required accurately to the second order of small quantities .
The differential relation*is To the first order we have equal simply to the value of at the surface , so that ) the origin of in the undisturbed surface .
value of may be used iu the small terms of ( 13 ) , and thus to a second where is an arbitrary function of of the second order of smitll quantities .
We are now prepared to substitute for / 7 its value in ( 12 ) .
In the principal term we must use the complete value of from ( 15 ) .
fn the second term , already A as a factor , the first approximation for suffices , while in the third we may put .
The third term thus becomes a function of only , and may be arded as cancelled by .
We find .
( 16 ) In free vibrations the condition to be satisfied at the surface is .
The annulment of the term in requires that and the same well-known relation suffices to annul term in surface condition is satisfied thought any addition to , if besides satisfying 17 ) we with - Thus , writing for obtain , as the complete value of .
( 18 ) We now proceed with the consideration of the problem when viscosity .
Lamb 's ' Hydrodynamics , ' Lord Rayleigh .
[ July 25 , is retained .
Eliminating from ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , we get , with use of and ( 5 ) , The terms on the hand of ( 19 ) are of the second order in the amplitude of vibration , and thus for the first approximation we have simply .
( 20 ) The solution of ( 20 ) may be Wl.itten , ( 21 ) where .
( 22 ) We now introduce the suppositions that in the first approximation are proportional to .
and also to .
The along is and the period is .
The equations ( 20 ) now become by which and are to be determined as functions of .
If we write we have , as the most ) solutionl of ) , ( 25 ) if the real part of is taken positive , the terms in and when t fluid is ted deep .
our where A and now absolute real coml ) .
We shall presently fin real .
From ( 4 ) we now find , ( 27 ) ' ; and onlit terms of the second , we il of in like 1908 .
] Vortices in Liquid .
Hence , ( 30 ) the expression to be integrated a perfect differential by ( 22 ) .
Applying ( 30 ) to the present case , we find .
( 31 ) At the surface we are to suppose , and may be neglected in the term already multiplied by A. Thus at the surface .
( 32 ) Now that we have to reckon with viscosity , the stress conditions at the surface can no longer be expressed merely by .
In the usual notation , applicable also in the theory of elastic solids , denote normal tractions across faces perpendicular to and respectively , while denotes the tangential traction which acts parallel to across the face perpendicular to , or the equal traction parallel to across the face perpendicular to The expressions for these tractions are* , ( 33 ) .
( 34 ) When viscosity was neglected , we were able to suppose that the surface of the fluid was entirely free from imposed force .
Under such circumstances the vibrations of a viscous could not be maintained .
If is to be real , some maintaining forces are necessary .
We will suppose that these forces are exclusively normal in their character , and make ; for it is to be observed that in the present approximation a direction parallel to the surface may be identified with the horizontal .
By ( 27 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 34 ) we find , making , ( 35 ) as the condition of no tangential force at the surface .
Or , if we substitute for its value from ( 24 ) , ( 35 ) becomes .
( 36 ) For the normal traction at the surface we have from ( 33 ) , , ( 37 ) *Cf .
Lamb 's 'Hydrodynamics , ' S 314 .
Lord Ilayleigh .
[ July 25 , and by ( 36 ) the expression for in ( 29 ) may be written These equations constitute the complete synlbolical solution of the problem of infinitely small stationary waves maiutained by purely normal surface pressures in a fluid of any degree of viscosity .
* to pass to real quantities , it is simplest to , so that ( int .
A is then given explicitly by ( 36 ) , and on substitution in ( 37 ) we ( jint .
( 40 ) The to real quantities is now only complicated by the telm in .
If the viscosity be small , this term may be omitted , and we may take , ( 41 ) , the normal traction necessary to l1laintain vaves represented by .
If , the part of in the same phase as disapl)ears , and simply .
It is to ) remembered ) is a .
If , as is usual in llydrodynalnics , use ) , see that the pressure has its maximum value when the is stest , as was to be expected .
The accurate expression for the real of may , of course , be .
If in ( 24 ) put then ) .
( 44 ) It is unnecessary to write down the actual of the real of ( 40 ) .
Tn applications an of sufhceF ] .
On account of the LllncbS of is very lar , with that is to sa the knChS ( the stratum ] which the motion can be time is the -length in tltc ' simply ( 4C ) , ' ' 1 , 332 .
1908 .
] Vortices in Liquid .
It appears that the terms neglected in ( 40 ) when ( 41 ) is substituted are of the order In proceeding to a second approximation we have to calculate the terms of the second order forming the member of ( 19 ) , the values found in the first approximation .
In these whence , the oinary part rejected , ( 4S ) .
( 49 Also , in real quantities by ( 27 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 36 ) , , ( 50 ) Pcos Hence \mdash ; By ( 19 ) to is elnl ) of .
lt will be ) in the as { unctions of penden t tional in Lord Rayleigh .
[ July 25 , of , and in addition we must include a " " complementary function\ldquo ; representing , so far as required , the complete integral of ( 53 ) whe the second member is made equnl to zero .
This part contains the terms of the first approximation ( 26 ) , which now represent themselves ; and we must also be prepared to admit terms of the second order proportional to , and either independent of time or involving .
In the former case the differential equation rednces to ' ( 54 ) as the ' solution applicable to deep water , ( 55 ) where and constants .
A terln in would represent vortices ol the kind found in the former paper to from the action of the bottom ( when the liquid is not too deep ) ; and one of the principal objects of the present ation is to ascertain whether these terms occur as the result of the conditions operative at the free surface .
It may be recalled that such vortices could not arise in an ideal frictionless fluid , nitude , when fully established , may independent of the amount of the fi.iction .
In view of the complication of the it must suffice to limit the investigation to the case of viscosity , the question whether vortiees can be maintained the viscosity is reduced without On the right of ( 52 ) there nine terms , of which five are independent of .
But they are not of equal importance .
Since l ) is of the order , the term is the seyenth in .
So far as this term is concerned , It is now convenient to to complex quantities , in ' as the ' of .
Thus To the face condition , ) the evanescence of tangential fotce , shall require the expression of 1908 .
Vortices in Oscillatinq- .
Liquid .
which , since is already involved as a factor , we may put .
Thus rom which the imaginary part is to be re , iected .
In tracing the value of ( 57 ) as diminishes , we get ultimately ( 58 ) .
In this is of the order , and is of order , so that ( 58 ) is rder , becoming infinite in comparison with , as } without imit .
We shall find , however , that infinite term is compensated ) mother , to be brought forward later .
For our purpose we must retain all , which do not vanish with in comparison with .
Hence , with cient approximation , which the second term , purely imaginary , is to be rejected .
Thus real part of Referring to and regard to the orders of the various terms [ 1 respect of , we see that the only other term independent of which needs retained is the third in of arrangement .
From this term we obtain [ 1 like manner , nd when rith sufficient approximation .
In ( 61 ) , , so far as it need be retained , is a pure inary , and ccordingly there is no contribution from this source .
We are left therefore with ( 59 ) as the complete contribution of the direct integral of ( 53 ) when , so far as the terms independent of are concerned .
In a similar manner we may the in .
We find for the eating term part of ; that , if we finally reject the inary part , VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. Lord [ July 25 , when .
And for the only there t which it is ecessary to retain , ( 7 , , .
( 63 ) We ve now sufficiently complete xplebsionS for so far as it results from the direct ) .
But to we have to add terms arising fro1n the ) unctiol .
In this there must , at any raCc , be included the terlns in found in ) first approximation .
From ( 27 ) , ( 28 ) we ?
is .
and in this we are to substitute for value appropriate to the surface .
In the hrst approximation terms containing / ' were ected , and surface condition .
( 65 ) This relation llust still hold , tcly at nny rate .
it in the small of ( 64 ) , we in which we .
in comparison with .
Passing to real quantities , we find real value of from ( 3S ) , is , ( 66 ) so that this ( C4 ) beconnes .
( 67 ) for the ndcnt of we , ( 67 ) , ( 68 ) within braces ils may ) proved , crnls cillitc residue .
Thns ishes w the lerms of concellled .
terms in ( he lesb interest .
We find , in the same , when is without limit of fit 1908 .
] Vortices in But we are not yet in a position to apply the condition which must be sittisfied at the surface , viz. , the tangential force shall there vanish ; for we nUSG l'enlember that the surface can no longer be treated as parallel to O. If be the angle which the surface point under consideration makes with , the of transformation are .
For the present purpose may be regarded as a small quantity , equal to , whose square may be ected , and we may take .
It is , and nob , which is to be made to vanish to the second order of the vibration .
The expressions for , etc. , have already been give in ( 33 ) , ( 34 ) .
Substituting the values of of the first approximation , we find , when is small , , ( 71 ) and .
( 72 ) It appears , then , that so as the terms dependent of concerned , there is no difference veen p and , and since we already seen that vanishes , it follows that the surface condition of no force is satisfied to a second approximation , without the addition of any further terms ( o5 ) , such as would represent permanent vortices .
Accordingly , no such vortices exist .
As terms find addition another term of the same form derived from and ( 72 ) .
In a solution complete to the second order these terms would need to be compensated by the introduction of llew second-order terms in of the form ; ( 74 ) but it is scarcely necessary for our purpose to define them .
Neithel does it seem worth while to express at ) the equation of pressure when the second-order terms are included .
The particular case of viscosity already considered illustrates the procedure .
Terms in the expression of the pressure are independent of are ) ondi c in not affecting the velocities .

