]\gt ; The rate of distortion was very irregular , owing a strong dency to increase with the length of time for which the applied .
WlIen extra weight was put on , the rate incrcased than in proportion to the weight itself , but less than in its square .
The effect of temperature was generally masked by others , but there could be no douboIits existence ; the rate at being in one case twice or three times as great as coeten 's Plasticity , due to sliding planes ( Gleitflachen ) , has been shown to exist in rock salt , Iceland spar , \amp ; c. , by Reusch and others .
In salt these planes are parallel to the faces of the rhombic dodecahedron , and in general there are several difterent sets .
As long ago as Reusch suggested their ence in ice as a means of explaining the observed plasticity .
I find that the observation that an ice crystal ig plastic was made by Hagenbach in 1881 , but he did not furthm investigate the matter .
VII .
Preliminary Note on a New Magnetometer By W. STROUD , D.Sc .
, Professor of Physics , Yorkshire College , .
Communicated by Professor A. W. RUCKER , F.R.8 .
Received May 30 , 1890 .
The determination of the horizontal component of the earth 's netic field is of great imporGance , not only for the purpose of magnetic surveys , but also for the determination of the absolute strength of an electrical current , a measurement frequently required , not only for scientific work of various kinds , but also for the calibration if ammeters and voltmeters , and other electrical measuring The usual method of this important quantity is that Gauss , but the method is so long and laborious , and the requisite for accurate determination so expensive , that the meant of is avoided whenever practicable .
The writer , devised an instrument capable of determining with great and accuracy , ventul.es to think that a description of the may not be without interest .
Gauss 's method consists , as is well known , in finding ( 1 ) the defl tion produced upon a small magnetic needle by a large magnel moment , placed at a known distance from , and in a certain posiffl with regard to , the needle ; and ( 2 ) the time of vibration of deflecting magnet when suspended so as to oscillate in a horizond 1890 .
] On a new Magnetometer .
261 plane about its position of equilibrium .
The first operation gives bhe value of , or rather would glve it if the distance between the poles the detlectors were known .
To measure and allow for this requioes a second expenment , when the distance from the leedle is altered , and the new deflection read .
In this way two slmultaneous equations are obtained , from which , by elimination of the distance between the poles , an equation is obbained involving as the only unknown .
The second gives the product of and , or rather would give it if the moment of inertia of the magnet about its of oscillation were known .
As this quantity is not directly determinable , a second equation has to be obtained by increasing the moment of inertia by a known amount , and determining the new time of .
In this way two more simultaneous equations are obtained , from which , by elimination of the unknown moment of , the value of MH is obtained in terms of measurable quantities .
Doubtless Gauss 's method is excellent when the moment of inertia , as well as the distance between the poles of the deflector , is wanted , but when those quantities sre not required ( and they nevel are ) direct method is very desirable .
In a magnetic , no doubt , the determination would be shortened by mcasuring , once for all , the moment of of the deflecto , and possibly the distance between the poles .
In place of the lalorious dynamical method of measuring various statical have been ested and employed , notably by hc deflecting magnet bifilarly and approximately and west .
The instrument to be described consists of a deflecting magnet of peculiar form , suspended lilarly and approximately east and west ; this case the lower end of the bifilars will be turned through an which a measure of .
This at the same time acts at a known as deflectol to a littlo magnet , the deflection of which is a measure of .
Hercafter the deflecting magnet will be , for brevity , referred to as the " " magnet the little deflected maglle as the " " needlc ; of a piece of fine wire , some 100 cm .
long , and cm .
in diameter , bent into tho form of a , or approximately so , the two ends soldered together " " end-on , \ldquo ; with no overlap .
This is magnetised similarly to a Gramme arma- ture , with a north and south pole at opposite ends of a diameter ( by placing ib with this diameter veeIl the two opposite poles of a weak elec.tromagnet ) , and so suspended from the bifilar arrangemenr , that , when the bifilars are vertica ] , the magnet lies with its plane tical , and pproximately east and west , and with its magnetic axis approxi ately horizontal .
In ils position of equilibrium , the couple which the earth exerts upon it is MH , where Af denotes the notes the radius of the ircular magnet ; so that , neglecting the distanoe between the poles of the needle , the couple exerted on it by the magnet will be ; siu ; . .
whence . . . . . . . . . . .
If the distances between the bifilars and their length be so justed that , i. e. , that the magnet and the needle turn approximately the same angle in the same sense , then Or , if the deflections be read off in the usual way with or lamp and scale , then , to a certain degree of approximation , ? .
1890 .
] On a new Magnetometer .
263 Thus is determinal ) in terms of a mass , the value of the acceleration of gravity at the place , certain distances , and the ratio of two deflections .
A possible modification of the msthod consists in making accurately equal to by varying , or , or , better , by turning the end of the bifilars through a known angIe .
So far , however , the writer has preferred to adjust the constants of the instrumen so that for shall be nearly equal to .
It will be noticed that if telescope and scale be used there is no necessity to determine the distance of the scale from the magnets except very roughly indeed , as we are requiring the ratio of the tangent and the sine of two not very large ] .
Thus the necessity of measnring two angles of deflection instead of one as in Gauss 's method is really an advantage , as it obviates the nccessity of determining either angle absolutely .
* The special feature.of the circular form of deflecting magnet is this\mdash ; that it is a matter of utter indifference what the distribution of magnetism in it may be , provided it be circular and the little needle be at the centre .
This can be readily seen , for if we some north-seeking magnetism situated at an angular altitnde referred to the centre , the earth 's on this will vary as but at the same time the inknsity of field at the centre resulting therefrom and measured horizontally varies as too , so that not only is the position of the magnetic axis unimportant , but the distribution of magnetism may even be irregular without invalidating equation ( 2 ) .
Moreover , if we are careful in the magnetisation to get the poles in something like the right itions , it is not necessary that the magnet ) old be absolutely circular ; all that is necessary is that the magnet should be circular only in the neighbourhood of the poles .
In the above equations , then , will stand for half the polar diameter of the magnet .
Again , with a magnet of moderate dimensions the needle need not be placed rigorously at the centre , since it is in a minimum field arising from the action of the two opposite poles on opposite sides .
To illustrate this , we may take the case of a magnet , not unduly large , 30 cm .
in diameter ; then if little neodle , instsad of being at the centre , is displaced horizontally 1 cm .
on either side , allowing , in fact , a rango of 2 cm .
, the intensity of field at the centre is only increased by12 per cent. , so that will be too small by per cent. The needle can easily be arranged within 2 mm. the centre , and in this case will only be affected to 1 part in 11,000 .
It will thus be sceIl that even for the most ourate work a comparatively small magnet may be used , and the little needle need not be placed rigorously at the centre .
All the It must be understood that the writer is not recommending that small angles of Aection should be used see appended ) .
On anew .
265 of thin { hcet rass , some cm .
in width , over } the top to form a wide hook , , figs. 1 and 2 , under which 's pass .
At the top of the ument is attached a similar hook , from which the bifilars are suspcnded .
The widtbs of these ( which form distances between the at the top and bottom ) can be read with a nlicrometer gauge with ccrtainty to cm .
, and by more accurately .
The bar , and attacbed mirror are made as light as they can possibly be made .
of wood ( X , X ) are attached to the bottom and two shallow sides of tho } ) which the circtlIar mngnet is suspended in a way as to leave only about cm .
clearance for the when it oscillating before coming to reHt .
As the needle , too , cnn only freely when within a milIimetre or so of centre , it is clear VOL. ILVIII .
1890 .
] On a new Magnetometer .
) cm .
Reading for needle before reversal afber , , . . . .
, Difference . . . .
Weight suspended from bifilars grams .
Length of bitilars measured by cathetometer Distance apart of bifilars at top inch cm .
bPlow , , , , Diameter of circular magnet cm .
From which data II .
, 1890 .
4 .
Scale 2 long , placed 2 from instrument .
Distance between bifilars below altcred and weighl changed in consequence .
cm .
for magnet before reveI'sal . .
after , , . .
Diffclvncc . .
Reading for needle reversal . . . .
) after , , . . . .
Diffcrcncc . . . .
grams .
Distance between bifilars below 5126 inch ) Length of bifilars cm .
Other constnnts as tore .
III .
May 20 .
5 P.ll .
Constanls same as in II .
cm .
Reading for magnet before reversal . .
afler , , . .
7772 Differencc ' . .
cm .
Reading for needle befol'e reverHal after , , . . . .
\ldquo ; Difference . . . .
that these results have } ) obtained with a rough instru .
mnde on the premises , and with very inforior mirrors , method scems very satisfactory .
For the detel'lllination of the of a current in absolute measure the writer suggest pJacing coils of wire , each known geometrical form , the one with its plane in the magnetic meridian on the east side of the instrument , the other similarly on the side wit their axes passing througnl the centre of the needle .
The two coils attached to the ument would form in a Helmboltz standard galvanometer with the addition of the circular magnet with bifilar suspension .
atiorIs of ( 1 ) the deflection of the cular m on reversal ; ( 2 ) the deflection of the needle under the action of the circular ; ( 3 ) the deflection of the needle when the circular is removed altogether and the current traverses the coils will the value of the rrent in absolute measure correct , it is believed , to one ) in a thousand if the geometrical constant of the coils can be determined bo that degrae of accuracy .
Now an interesting point arises in connexion with the possible accuracy attainable by this method .
The writer believes that with apparatus of the dimensions described there is no difficulty in determining each one of quantities readily to the part .
With a telescope the deflections can certainly be relied ) to that .
of accuracy , at all events if are each more than A little uncertainty arises in connexion with the measurement of and this is very important , as .
Is the pole to be consideoed at the middle of the wire of the circulal magnet , or nearer the surfaoe of wire , and if so on which sid This question cannob be answered with tainty .
Reckoning from the middle of the wire in determining the distance between the poles , the maximum eNor possible in a wire of ) cm .
diameter is ) cm .
, and this with a radius of 13 cm .
gives 1 part in 300 as the extreme error that could be mado in H. We may , however , be certain that the polo cannot be tham half the radius of the wire distant from its centre .
We may therefore say that about 1 in 500 represents tho possible error in arising from this cause .
Clearly , however , it ir advisable on all accounts to replace the circular wire of the gnet by a flat steel ribbon bent into the form of a It will be noticed that the effect of riation in temperature in the value of the constant of the instrument can be nllowd with accuracy , as the coefficients of expansion of 1890 .
] On a new } etometer .
) different metals used in the construction of the instrument known sufficient accuracy .
It is probably better not to include the leugth of the bihlars in the constant of the instrument , except for rough work , as both variation in tem perature and the btate of the air will produce sensibls alterations in An objection may bc taken to the method when very accurate determinations are desired on the ground that a of value of acceleration of gravity at the place of tion is requisite before absolute tious can be writer believes , however , tl , a suspension for the wonld be preferable to the bifila ] for mag.netic survey work .
lt perhaps needless bo say that provision would be for and needle .
To couvert ) , of umeut into absolute measure , it will be necessary to at as nearly as possible the place and at the same time by aring the indications of the with those of a standard instrument of the bifilar type previously ribed .
In connexion with the erection of such a st instrument , points to be } ) in are , that all correclions Irit , ( 1 ) torsion of silk , ( 2 ) the tion of the poles of the gnet , ( 3 ) couple by needlc on shall be made as slnalI as possible .
cffcct , the be longcr , the be made steel of wire , and the of this hold be in order that may be meas ured 1llore ) , and order gnetic moment of the maonet uuduly sing the defiection of the edle .
The wliter is ab ) oseIl t engaged in uch am lment i the ) ) ) of the Yorkshire College , hopes to ablo to attain it in bo 1 part in 10 , In , the ) method of ining H ) much s in the cspects :\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( ssity of Ling .
a ation of a timo ( always a tedious operation ) is avoided .
( 2 ) he determiuation of moment of inertia is avoided .
( 3 ) of the distance between the two of the ctor is avoided .
( 4 ) tion of nctic moment of the deflector of an no .
; 1leithel Vcl } ) of the th produce an no only to be very ebly magnetisod , as its action on the needle to the of the ac.tions of two poles .
( 6 ) The time occupiod in a determinntion of is o1lly a minutes when once the of the instrument boon [ Note added June \mdash ; In comparing the accuracy of the posed instrument with the Kew , it is necessary to distinguish the determination of in absolute measure , say , for laboratory poses , such as the measurement of the strength of and determinations where the requirements are the estimation of erences in tlre value of at different stations , say , ) the of magnetic surveys .
For an absolute determination a great be said for an instrument in which the only measurements are angles , certain distances , and a certain weight , ) which does not require a determination of th influence of the 's incl ( lctive action on the magnet , nor of the variation of the magnetic oment 0 the magnet temperature , nor of the position of the .
of the magnet .
reference to netic survey work , comparison may be instituted between the Kew instrument and that di.scussion by assuming the of each to be known ; then in eaeh case angular deflections are being measured , and other things being equal , the accuracy obtainable will be approximately proportional to the magnitude of the angles observed .
Now the Kew instrument , the deflection produced by the deflector in its near posi tion is about , and in its far position about .
Something like the difference between these detiections , or , will represent the order of angle to be estimated as accurately as possible .
It is not possible in the Kew instrument to materially increase these angles without unduly the influence of the distribution of magnetism in the deflector .
In the present instrument there ssems to be no reason why deflections of or thereabouts should not be obtt i This would seem to show thal the esent instrument could be mado considerably more sensitive than the Kew .
It need , perhaps , cely be mentioned ) the writer is not advocating the use of telescope and scale for the delections in prefeI'ence to an azimuth circle .
The rmer method ( quite unsuitable for measuring large angles ) was only adopted in the first to roughly test the capabilities of the instrument in the absence of any graduated circle .
In a final instrument all the deflections will be referred to a raduated azimuth circle , as in Kew instrument at present .
A few points of detail may bejust mentioned in clusion : Tu eliminate any error arising in the bifilar from the distanoo between the centres of the silk fibres slightly different from the breadth of the metal hook , the writer proposes to control distance between the upper ends of the bifilars from the an in a piece of metal , and to control the distancs ffl 1890 .
] On the , of the Marmoset Monkey .
271 the lower ends from the inside by the breadth of the hook .
If now the distances between the fibres top and bottom are nearly the same , no sensible error will be made by takiug the producb of these distances as equal to the product of he breadth of and the width of the metal apertul'e .
( 2 .
) To rellder the controlling couple produced by the deflected independent of temperature , it is proposed to select metals with iate coefficients of expansion for regulating the dimensions of the bifilars top and bottom , and to alter the length of the silk fibres by an appropriate arrangemeut , so that a pointer ttached to the hook at the lower end shall aiways come to a fiducial point upon of brass attached to the metal framework which forms the } ) suspension .
The of doing this seems to be to cement the plane and silvered side of a short-focus -convex leus to the of brass , and to arrange its position with reference Io the pointer so that the tip of the latter is exactly in the focus of he lens .
In this position the tip and its refiected image will appear just in , and if necessary a lens may be ided in the side of the instrument for observing the relative positions of the pointer and its image and adjusting them to coincidence .
] VIII .
" " On the course of the of the Cingulum and the rior Parts of the Corpus Callosuln and of in the MarJnoset Monkey By Charles E. BEEVOR , b1.D .
, .P .
by Professor ERRIER , F.R.S. Received June 12 , ) ( A bstract .
) This paper has its scope the ation by the microscope of the of certain acts iu which have not hitherto been minutely examined .
After an introdnctio1l showing the difficulties of tracing these fibres by disscclion and by other means , method o..f investc is given .
This consisted in cntti scrial sectious of brain of the Narmoset Monkey jartans and after hardcning bichro[llate of potash ; the sections stained by Weigcrt 's and also by Pal 's haematoxylin , whereby the fibr.es are differentiated .
In this way , a cumplote sericsl of sections was made in the sagittal and horizontal planes , and almost a complete series in the direction , and by combining the appearances found in the three , a mental picture of whole could thus be ed. In the descripbion of brain , emphasit ; is laid on its size , which it very easy of manipulation , while , from its high in the animal scale , its general arrangement is comparable

