334 Dr. F. Horton .
Effects of Changes of Temperature [ Mar 17 " The Effects of Changes of Temperature on the Modulus of Torsional Rigidity of Metal Wires .
" By Frank Horton D.Sc .
, B.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge ; 1851 Exhibition Research Scholar of the University of Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 17 , \#151 ; Read April 28 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) his paper contains an account of some experiments performed with the object of ascertaining , as accurately as possible , the manner in which the modulus of torsional rigidity varies with the temperature .
The law governing this variation has been expressed in several different forms by those who have investigated it , but all the more recent experimenters have been content with finding the modulus at two temperatures only and assuming a linear law to hold between them .
The first part of the paper contains a short account of the results obtained by previous investigators , and possible sources of error in the methods employed are pointed out .
The rest of the paper is divided into the following sections :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Description of apparatus , etc. ( 2 ) Account of the experiments .
( 3 ) Summary of results and comparison with those of other observers .
( 4 ) Determination of the coefficients of expansion of the wires .
The metals experimented on were copper , iron , platinum , gold , silver , aluminium , tin , lead , cadmium , all chemically pure , and also specimens of commercial copper and of steel pianoforte wire .
The wire sused were of approximately the same length and diameter , and were carefully annealed before the rigidity determinations were begun .
The method of experimenting employed was a dynamical one , the torsional oscillations of the wire under test being timed by a method of coincidences capable of great exactness .
Some of the observations made in the course of this work yielded what seemed to be interesting information as to the internal viscosities of the wires used .
This is recorded in the paper and compared with similar observations by other experimenters .
The vibrator generally used was a circular disc of gunmetal , and this was completely enclosed with the wire in a heating jacket , the temperature of which could be varied as required .
Observations of the period of torsional vibration were made , in general , at five temperatures , viz. , at the temperature of the room , about 16 ' C. , at 35 C. , 55J C. , 75 ' C. , and 100 ' C. , and also in some cases at 126 ' C. , the higher temperatures being obtained by using the vapours of various liquids boiling under atmospheric pressure .
1904 .
] on the Modulus of Torsional Rigidity of Wires .
335 The method of coincidences used in timing the torsional vibrations consists in observing the reflections of a vertical flash occurring once { second , in two mirrors , one of which is fixed in position , and the other is attached to the vibrator and vibrates with it , swinging just jbove the fixed mirror and being parallel to it when at rest .
The reflections are observed by means of a telescope , in the field of view of which , in general , two flashes are seen , one always occurring in the same position , and the other appearing in different parts of the field according to the position of the moving mirror at the instant the flash occurs .
If a second signal happens exactly when the two mirrors are parallel , the two flashes coincide , and it is from these " coincidences that the time of vibration is obtained .
The method of coincidences is usually only applied to the comparison of two nearly equal times , but it is shown in the paper to be equally applicable to any two periods even if they are quite different .
In order that the observed periods at different temperatures may be comparable , it is necessary that they should be corrected for the increased length and radius of the wire , and also for the expansion of the vibrator at higher temperatures .
For this purpose the coefficients of expansion of the wires , and of a gunmetal bar cast at the same time as the vibrator , were determined by means of the measuring bench in the Physical Laboratory of the University of Birmingham , which Professor Pointing kindly placed at my disposal .
A description of the instrument ( which has not otherwise been described ) , and the results of the experiments , are given in Part 4 of the paper .
In addition to the determination of the periods of vibration , observations of the logarithmic decrement of the amplitudes of the oscillations were taken at each temperature , and thus the effect of temperature on the internal viscosity of the wires was observed .
At the end of the rigidity determinations for each wire , a seiies o observations was usually taken to ascertain the manner in which the logarithmic decrement and the torsional period varied with the amp l tude of vibration , amplitudes up to about 10 being used .
The main observations for the rigidity determinations were all taken at the constant average amplitude of 14 ' .
The following is a summary of the principal results : 1 .
In all the materials examined , with the exception of pure copper and of steel , the modulus of rigidity at one temperature is not constant , but increases as time goes on .
The rate of inciease of rigidity with time is greater the higher the temperature , and lepeatec heatings to the same temperature gradually lessen the rate of alteration with time at that temperature , but even in the course of months of experimenting the increase of rigidity with time cannot be entiioly eliminated .
2 .
The diminution of the modulus of rigidity per degree rise of 336 On the Modulus of Torsional Rigidity of Wires .
[ Mar 17 temperature between 10 ' C. and 100 ' C. is constant for pure copper and for steel , but not for any of the other materials examined .
1P 3 .
In the case of the metals iron , gold , tin , lead and commercial copper , the rigidity temperature curve is of such shape as to suggest that if it were possible to obtain the values of the rigidity modulus at the different temperatures , all within a very short space of time ( so as to avoid the " time effect " ) , the resulting curve would be a straight line .
4 .
In the case of the metals platinum , silver , aluminium , the shape of the rigidity-temperature curve shows that the effect of the gradual increase of rigidity with time is such as to make the alteration with temperature approximate more closely to a linear law than would be the case if the observations were all taken within a very small interval of time .
For these metals , therefore , the decrease of torsional elasticity per 1 ' C. rise of temperature increases with the temperature .
5 .
In general , the effect of heating to a high temperature is to increase the value of the rigidity modulus at lower temperatures .
( This applies even to pure copper , of which the modulus of rigidity at the ordinary laboratory temperature is slightly greater after the wire has been heated to higher temperatures .
The rigidity of steel was quite constant , and with silver the value of the modulus at the temperature of the laboratory in the last few experiments was unaltered by a temporary increase of temperature .
Tin was the only case in which the rigidity modulus at the ordinary laboratory temperature was lessened by heating .
) 6 .
The internal viscosity of all the metals examined , with the exceptions of soft iron and steel , increases with the temperature .
This increase varies very much with different metals , being greatest with aluminium and least with platinum .
The internal viscosity of soft iron decreases rapidly with rise of temperature and reaches a minimum value at about 100 ' C. There is a slight decrease also in the case of steel .
7 .
Repeated heating and continued oscillation through small amplitudes decrease the internal friction .
8 .
Both the internal friction and the period of torsional vibration increase with the amplitude of oscillation .
The increase is generally greater the higher the temperature of the wire .
It is least in the case of steel and is small in the case of soft iron .
9 .
Vibration through a large amplitude considerably alters both the logarithmic decrement and period of oscillation at smaller amplitudes .
The nature of the alteration varies with different metals , being in some cases an increase and in some a decrease .
10 .
The internal viscosity of a well-annealed wire suspended and left to itself gradually decreases .
11 .
The internal viscosity of an unannealed wire is enormously reduced by annealing .

