Some Experiments on the Combustion of the Diamond and other carbonaceous Substances .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. TP .
IR.L Read June 23 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 557 .
] Notwithstanding the many accurate experiments which have been made and recorded , showing that diamond and carbonaceous substances combine with the same quantity of oxygen , and form the same quantity of carbonic acid , various conjectures have been formed respecting some difference in their chemical composition , which might account for the remarkable difference in various sensible qualities .
Messrs. Biot and Arago conjectured , from the great refractive power of the diamond , that hydrogen must be present .
Guyton de Morveau imagined that other carbonaceous substances were oxides of diamond ; and Sir Humphry Davy himself supposed , on the contrary , that diamond , as a non-conductor of electricity , probably contained oxygen , and afterwards that it contained some new principle of the same class with oxygen .
Having , however , lately made some direct experiments on the combustion of the diamond in oxygen gas , by means of the great lens belonging to the Academy at Florence , his results have not differed from those made by Mr. Tenant , and subsequently by Messrs. Allen and Pepys , respecting the quantity or quality of the gas produced ; and he acknowledges that the general tenor of his experiments is opposed to the conjectures that have been entertained by himself and others respecting the existence of oxygen , either in the diamond itself , or in carbonaceous substances .
His experiments likewise , so far from supporting the hypotheses of Messrs. Biot and Arago as to the existence of hydrogen as a constituent part of diamond , showed that a minute quantity of hydrogen was really contained in each of the other carbonaceous substances employed for comparison , not excepting plumbago .
The presence of hydrogen in these bodies is most distinctly shown on heating them in chlorine , by white fumes that are immediately perceived in consequence of the production of muriatic acid ; but when diamond is heated in the same gas , no such vapour appears .
In the course of these experiments the author notices a phenomenon which he had not before seen , namely , that diamond when once ignited in oxygen , continues to burn till it is consumed .

