]\gt ; .
W. Amended Rule for working [ June 15 , POSTSCRIPT .
Received June 14 , Aftcr the completion of the above paper , author found that Mr. Shanks , in second , third , and fourth supplementary papers on the Constant* , extended his calculations so as to determine from , and 10,000 .
The values so obtained all differ in sixtieth decimal ; in fact the is taken , the further from the truth are the results , as the errors in the logarithms are multiplied by ]arger factors .
The calculation for a ification of the error of ; for on subtracting the value of from , we obtain ( after correcting ) a result agreeing with to 80 decimal places ( which is as far as Mr. Shanks has calculated the latter value of ) , with the exception of a difference of a unit in the \mdash ; an error probably in the summation of the harmonic series from 1000 to 2000 .
The values for and are esides the errors preiously noticed ) inaccurate from the VIII .
" " Records of the Magnetic vations at the Kew Observatory .
No. \mdash ; Analysis of the principal Disturbances shown by the Horizontal and Vertical Force Magnetometers of the Kevv Observatory from 1859 to 1864 By General .
EDWARD SAB1NE , IC. C.B. , President .
Received June 15 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) This paper exhibits an analysis of the disturbances recorded by the izontal and vertical force self-recording eters of Kew Observatory in the cars 1859 to diminution in the number and value of the turbnnces from a maximum in to a minimum in 1863 , the first moiety of the : ' decenllitd period and ring also the distribution of the disturbances , or diminishing the respective forces , in the several yeals , months , and IX .
" " Amcnded Rule for working out Sumllel.'S Method of a Ship 's Place .
By Prof. Sir THOIIISON , Reccived Jume 15 , 1871 .
In my previous communication on this )ject I described a according to which , in the first placc , lives were to be on the chart , from two sets of numbers out of a proposed then Sumnlcr 's line ( the line .
which tbc observation shows the to be ) to bc } ) olated , space them in the proportion of the differences of the sun 's decli .
vol. .
pp. , vol. 1871 .
] out Sumner 's of finding a Ship 's Place .
nation from two of the tabular numbers .
I find a better plan in practice to be as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Take two solutions out of the Table as directed in my previous paper .
( 2 ) Taking the two houl-angles and the two altitudes from these two solutions , interpolate to the nearest lute the hour-angle and the altitude corresponding to the correct declination , according to the simple proportion of its differences from ) inationS of the two solutions ; and estimate , by } ) ectiou , proper azimuth to the nearest half degree , from the azimuths shown in the two solutions .
( 3 ) Using the interpolated hour-nngle , azimuth , and altitude found by clause ( 2 ) , find on the chart , in the nssumed parallcl of latitude , the point whose longitude is the differenec veen the interpolated ] -angle and the Greenwich hour-angle at the time of the observation ; through tl1is point draw , by aid of a protractor , a line inclined to the north and south at angle equal to the nuth , and on the proper side according to whether the observation was made before or after noon ; on this azimuthal line* measure off towards the sun a length ( miles for minutes ) equal to the correct.altitude of observatiou above the interpolated altitude of clause ( 2 ) ; and through the point thus reached draw to the azimuthal line .
This perpendicular is Sumner 's line .
The Table ( of which a specimcn was shown in my former communication ) has now been completed by Mr. Robcrts , and has been in my hands long enough to me to test its use in actuad practice .
I find the assistance of compasscs for off the assumed colatitude preferable to the slip of card with numI ) which I first gested ; and I fnd the process to be altogether very easy and ( in respcct to fatigue a contrast to the ordinary ulethod ) .
I fiud all the cases ( as azimuth and gle both acute , azimuth acute and obtuse , or azimuth and both obtuse , or , again , declination grcatel than latitude , but of same name , and declination of name to latitude ) work out without ambiguity or perplexity .
Still the mere fact of there being different cases may possibly detcr from leaving the ordinary method , which ) , considcrably and more laborious , has the excellent dity of uo varicty of .
I intend , vever , to ] ) forward the ation of a pnper of prnctical directions , by exampIcs of adl ordin critic cases , and to publish it the Table ; so th mell may have an portuuity of judging actnal ) crience whether the of Sumn er 's nlcthod which ) I posed will be useful to them or not .
I it ultnecessary in my former tiou to that every determinatiol of itudc { scn ( except or is to lnark t one ' ' set squaro\ldquo ; along imutbal 1 to it i$ or line of only itrk ) .
ncccL bo de on hc apcr .
526 Mr. Russell on Linear DiJferential quations .
[ June 15 , of land interpreted in connexion with observations for latitude ) involves the unknown error of the chronometer , and makes the ship 1 ' West or East of the true placc for every four seconds of time that the chronometer 's indication is in advance of or behind correct Greenwich time .
Although I believe that every man who uses a chronometer at sea knows this perfcctly well , I shall not omit to state it in the practical directions which I propose to publish , as the Astronomer Royal , Professor Stokes ( ' Proceed ' April 27 , ) , and Mr. Gordon ( writing in the ' Mercantile and Shipping Gazette ' ) are of opinion that an explicit warniog of the kind be in connexion with any publication teuding to bring Sumnel.'S method into m.ore than it has been hitherto .
X. On Linear Differential ions .
V. By W. II .
L. RUSSELL , .
Received Junc 15 , 1871 .
Let us now endeavour to under what a linear ation a a solution of the form , where are ratioual of .
If we have , whereR is a tional function of .
or must be ational fimction satisfying the given cquation .
Having ascertained its value .
we have a differential of form .
Divide this equation by and , and have equation of the form . . .
; from which find in possible cases , since is function of .
It is impossible that linear differential equation ] in general solution of the form ; for in that we should , { in equation beconcs of the ;

