1892 .
] On the Estimation of Uric Acid Urine .
93 in tlieir power of -reducing blood-pressure , and of inducing muscular contraction .
This order appears to be the result not so much of the direct physiological influence of the substituted methyl groups as of the increased chemical instability which their presence confers on the higher members of the series .
In respect of the duration of subnormal pressure , as well as of the rapidity with which muscular contraction ensues , the activity of the nitrites is expressed by an order which is for the most part the reverse of that representing their power in accelerating the pulse , reducing blood-pressure , and contracting muscular fibre , this order being in general contrary to that of the homologous series .
In these respects the more volatile nitrites of low molecular weight which contain relatively more nitroxyl are the most active .
It appears probable that these simpler nitrites more readily attach themselves to certain constituents of blood and muscle , and thus act more quickly than the higher compounds , whilst their greater stability causes their effects , i.e. , reduction of blood-pressure , \amp ; c. , to endure for a greater length of time than that of the higher and more easily decomposed bodies .
A large proportion of an organic nitrite is changed into nitrate in .
its passage through the organism , and is excreted as an alkali nitrate in the urine .
The results which have been gained by this research have an important bearing on the therapeutic employment of the nitrites .
It is proposed elsewhere to consider what the outcome of this investigation is for practical medicine .
V. " On the Estimation of Uric Acid in Urine : a New Process by means of Saturation with Ammonium Chloride .
" By F. Gowland Hopkins , B.Sc. , Gull Research Student at Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Pie Smith , F.R.S. Received May 30 , 1892 .
The process to be described depends upon the following facts:\#151 ; 1 .
Ammonium urate is wholly insoluble in saturated solutions of ammonium chloride .
2 .
If solutions , such as urine , which contain the mixed urates of different bases be saturated with ammonium chloride , the large mass-influence of the latter ensures the rapid and complete conversion of all the uric acid into biurate of ammonium , which , in accordance with ( 1 ) , is , pari passu , thrown out of solution .
In the case of urine , saturation with ammonium chloride is followed by a complete precipitation of the uric acid present in the course of two hours at most .
Mr. F. G. Hopkins .
[ June 16 , It has long been known that ammonia , and salts of ammonia , will after long standing , so completely precipitate the nric acid from urine that subsequent treatment with acids produces no further precipitate ( Wetzlar , ' Beitrage zur Kenntniss des menschlichen Haras , ' Frankfurt a.M. 1821 , p. 19 ) .
Fokker , moreover , observed that when a solution of any urate is made alkaline , and then mixed with a solution of ammonium chloride , the uric acid slowly separates out as the biurate of ammonia .
Upon this observation the well-known Fokker-Salkowski process is based .
But the crucial fact that saturation with the amm-onium chloride renders the separation rapid and absolutely complete does not seem to have been previously observed .
The importance of this fact in any attempt to estimate uric acid by means of its separation as ammonium urate will be seen when it is remembered that , hitherto , in all such processes a large correction has to he made to allow for incomplete separation , even after long standing .
In the Fokker-Salkowski process , for instance , the factor which has to be added to the result amounts to , at least , 25 per cent , of the total variable dealt with , a necessity which would seem to render the process of little scientific value ( vide Fokker , Pfliiger 's ' Archiv , ' vol. 10 , p. 157 , 1875 ; Salkowski , Virchow 's ' Archiv , ' vol. 68 , p. 401 , 1876 ) .
In the method about to he described no such correction is necessary .
The following experiments with pure urates will show the complete separation of ammonium urate wlxich occurs after saturation with the chloride .
In each case pure uric acid , prepared by means of the sulphate , was used .
The ammonium salt precipitated was decomposed by means of HC1 , and the uric acid subsequently washed and weighed , due allowance being made for washings:\#151 ; Uric acid recovered .
( 1 .
) One decigramme of uric acid dissolved in ammonia , solution made up to 250 c.c. , saturated with ammonium chloride , and filtered after 30 minutes ... ... ... ... . .
0'0994 ( 2 .
) Fifty milligrammes dissolved as above and made up to 150 c.c. Filtered after 15 minutes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0'0502 ( 3 .
) One decigramme dissolved in Na^Cos , solution made up to 100 c.c. Filtered after 3 hours ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0'0986 ( 4 .
) One decigramme dissolved as in ( 3 ) .
Filtered after 4 hours ... ... ... ... ... .
0'0990 The presence of excess of bases , other than ammonia , delays the 892 .
] On the Estimation of Uric Acid .
irecipitation , but , as stated above , two hours is amply sufficient in he case of urine .
( Vide note ( b ) , infra ) .
The process of estimation in urine may be carried out as follows :\#151 ; To 100 c.c. of the urine , finely-powdered pure ammonium chloride 3 added in excess , about 30 grammes being necessary .
The solution s allowed to stand for two hours , with occasional stirring , and the jrecipitate then filtered off through a thin filter paper .
The precipitate is then washed with a saturated solution of tmmonium chloride .
If a few crystals of the solid salt used for precipitation are still undissolved at the time of filtration , it is of no lisadvantage ; the light flocculent urate is easily washed first on to the filter , the crystals being then dissolved in a minimum of distilled vater and used for washings .
After it has been washed twice or thrice with the saturated chloride solution , the urate is washed off the paper into a small beaker by means of a jet of hot distilled water .
The ammonium urate is then decomposed by boiling with a slight excess of HC1 , the solution concentrated , if necessary , and the uric acid allowed to separate out .
It may be finally determined by any accustomed method .
( Vide , however , note ( c ) , infra ) .
Notes .
( a. ) The ammonium chloride used must be pure .
Since 30 grammes are used to precipitate 100 c.c. of urine , and only some 30\#151 ; 40 milligrammes of uric acid finally weighed , it is obviously fatal to the accuracy of the process if even a very small percentage of insoluble matter is present in the salt .
In some samples , sold as pure , I have found appreciable quantities of sand , and , in others , an amount of fibre from the filter used in the preparation of the salt equal to 2\#151 ; 3 milligrammes in the 30 grammes .
Other mineral salts of ammonia will precipitate the urate on saturation , but none are so satisfactory as the chloride .
( 6 .
) The presence of free ammonia greatly accelerates the separation of ammonium urate after saturation with ammonium chloride .
The addition of AmHO to urine obviously involves the separation of phosphates .
But , if the samples be first saturated with the chloride , and the hydrate subsequently added , the separation of urinary phosphates is greatly modified .
Ho gelatinous precipitate comes down , but only a small quantity of triple phosphate crystals , such as neither adds appreciably to the bulk of the urate precipitate nor increases the difficulty of filtration ( this is rendered evident if the precipitate produced by AmCl in an acid urine be first filtered off and AmHO added to the filtrate ) .
If , therefore , time is of special importance , AmHO may be safely 96 Mr. F. G. Hopkins .
[ June 16 , added after saturation with AmCl .
The urate , plus phosphate , may now be filtered off within ten minutes , and the uric acid liberated in the usual way .
In describing the process above , standing for two hours is recommended where Am Cl is added alone .
In a very large percentage of urines , however , if not in all , one hour will be found enough .
( c. ) The final determination of the separated uric acid may , of course , be carried out by means of weighing on a tared filter paper , or on a Ludwig 's glass-wool filter .
Personally , however , I greatly prefer to filter the crystals through a small filter of the kind sold by Schleicher and Schiill , and called by them Gehartete filter paper .
From these the uric acid may be very easily washed , without loss , into a weighed glass basin .
The washings are then evaporated to dryness on the water-bath , the residue dried at 110 ' C. , and weighed .
A. Volumetric Method.\#151 ; Recent experience has convinced me of the utility of permanganate solutions ( vide Sutton 's c Volumetric Analysis/ 4th ed. , p. 89 ) for the accurate titration of urates ; so much so that I believe uric acid , once separated , by any method , from admixture with other organic substances , may be better titrated than weighed .
At temperatures ranging round 60 ' C. a perfectly determinate reaction occurs , involving the instantaneous decolorisation of the permanganate ; and , though oxidation continues on standing greatly beyond the limits of this reaction , a perfectly definite end-point is obtainable , giving results which will be found extremely accurate .
The uric acid separated , as above , from 100 c.c. of urine is , after washing , dissolved by warming with a minimum of Na2C03 .
The solution is then cooled to about 15 ' C. , made up to 100 c.c. , transferred to a flask , rapidly mixed with 20 c.c. of pure strong sulphuric acid , and then immediately titrated with one-twentieth normal potassium permanganate solution .
The addition of 20 per cent , of sulphuric acid produces just such a temperature as is required for the reaction .
The end-point is marked by the first appearance of a permanent pink flush .
On standing , the colour continues to disappear , but this slow decolorisation is in marked contrast with the instantaneous nature of the first reaction .
Careful experiments with pure urates have convinced me that uric acid may be thus estimated to within less than half a milligramme .
One c.c. of twentieth normal permanganate of potassium , made by dissolving 1*578 grammes of the salt in 1 litre of distilled water , is equal to 0*00375 gramme uric acid .
In the 6 Guy 's Hospital Reports 9 for 18911 have described a method in which the ammonium urate precipitate , obtained by saturation with AmCl , is directly titrated with permanganate .
As this precipi892 .
] On the Estimation of Uric Acid in .
tate always contains a trace of pigment , the results are somewhat high , but the method will he found sufficiently accurate for clinical purposes .
Evidence as to the Accuracy of the Ammonium Chloride Separation when applied to TJrine .
( 1 .
) After urine has been saturated with the chloride , allowed to stand , as described , and filtered , uric acid cannot be detected by any process in the filtrate .
( 2 .
) The uric acid as weighed gave the following figures on combustion .
Mixed residues from actual determinations were used :\#151 ; Found .
( a. ) ( b. ) Theory .
C ... ... . .
35-460 35-990 35-71 H ... ... ... 2-561 2-590 2-381 N ... ... ... .
32-400 31-980 33-3 The above nitrogen figures show some variation from theory , but it should be remembered that elementary analysis is a very rigorous test when applied to such unpurified products .
I have never obtained figures so near to the truth from the product weighed in the Ludwig process .
( 3 .
) Comparison with the standard Ludwig-Salkowski process:\#151 ; Series 1 .
Milligrammes per 100 c.c. Ludwig .
AmCl .
Sample 1 ... 23-0 230 11 2 ... 46-0 49-0 11 3 ... 55-0 57-5 4 ... .
... 59-5 61-5 11 5 ... 640 68-0 .
11 6 ... .
80-5 82-5 Series 2 .
11 7 ... .
70-5 71-0 11 8 ... .
... ... 54-5 54-5 11 9 ... 40-5 39-5 11 10 ... 40-0 40-5 The experiments in Series 2 will be seen to afford nearer agreement than the earlier series , carried out before the same amount of experience had been obtained .
The better agreement depends partly VOL. LII .
H On the Estimation of Uric Acid in .
[ June 16 , upon the use of a purer ammonium chloride , but chiefly upon a precaution in Ludwig 's method to which reference is made below .
Notes on other Processes .
Having regard to the discussion at present going on with respect to the whole question of uric acid estimation , it may not be out of place to chronicle such experience of other processes as has been gained in the course of working out the method just described .
In comparing the ammonium chloride figures with those of Ludwig 's process , the experiments marked Series 1 above indicated an excess by the former method equal to some 3 milligrammes from the 100 c.c. of urine .
As stated above , a part of this excess was due to impurities in the ammonium chloride , but it was mainly due , I believe , to a destruction of uric acid which occurs in Ludwig 's process when the silver urate is treated with the alkaline sulph-hydrate .
It is , of course , well known that uric acid is decomposed on heating with caustic alkalies , but it is hardly recognised with what great ease the decomposition takes place .
I find that , on boiling 50 milligrammes of pure uric acid briskly for five minutes with 10 c.c. of Ludwig 's sulphide solution ( vide Neubauer and Vogel , 'Analyse des Harns , ' p. 543 ) , i.e. , the amount used to decompose the silver salt from 100 c.c. of urine , there is always an appreciable loss , sometimes amounting to 3 milligrammes .
It is therefore obvious that even five minutes ' boiling would be fatal to the accuracy of an estimation .
In Series 2 above , the silver compound was thoroughly shaken up with the sulphide in the cold , and only just heated to boiling before filtration .
Mr. E. Groves , B.Se .
, has recently described ( 'Journal of Physio-Jogy , ' December , 1891 ) a modification of Ludwig 's method which I have several times employed .
Mr. Groves uses potassium iodide instead of the sulphide to decompose the silver urate .
In my hands the method has always given results which are decidedly too low , owing doubtless to the action of the liberated iodine upon the uric acid in the acidified filtrate .
I have performed a large number of experiments with Haycraft 's method , and have found that results obtained by its means are invariably too high , while the proportionate error undoubtedly appears to be variable .
This appears to be the common experience .
My own experiments ' , however , lend no support to the extraordinarily wide variations from the truth which some observers , especially in England , have ascribed to it .
I should put the limit of error at from +10 to +15 per cent. In conclusion , it may be claimed for the separation by means of saturation with chloride of ammonium that it yields results which 1892 .
] Potential Difference required to produce a Spark .
are at least as accurate as those of Ludwig 's method , while it is far easier to carry out , and occupies much less time .
YI .
" On the Potential Difference required to produce a Spark between two Parallel Plates in Air at Different Pressures .
" By J. B. Peace , M.A. , Fellow of Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1892 .
Introductory .
The following is an account of an investigation into the relations between potential difference , spark-length , and pressure when discharge takes place between two parallel plates in air .
The investigation was undertaken at the suggestion of Professor J. J. Thomson , and has been carried out in the Cavendish Laboratory in Cambridge .
Preliminary experiments were made in July and August , 1890 , in which a small Wimshurst machine was used , and the potential difference was measured by one of Lord Kelvin 's vertical electrostatic voltmeters .
For sparks of some length fairly consistent results were obtained , but in the case of short sparks accurate measurement of the potential difference was difficult .
Use was then made of a large number of small secondary cells , and , at the same time , more accurate measurements of the spark-length were made .
At first about 500 cells were used , so that steady potential differences , ranging up to about 1,000 volts , could be maintained , and sparking differences up to about 0T mm. were examined .
The results of these experiments showed very fair agreement with those of other observers ; they were sufficiently consistent among themselves to show that the cells could be relied on .
More cells were therefore set up , and all were carefully tested as to equality , rate of fall of charge , \amp ; c. Apparatus was then constructed by which discharge at different pressures could be examined .
Description of this apparatus , which is sketched in fig. 1 , and an account of the method and results of observations made with it in July and August , 1891 , are given in Part I below .
At first some difficulty was found in making the bell-jar and its connexions sufficiently air-tight , but when this was overcome an effect similar to that observed by De la Rue and Muller in discharge in exhausted tubes became apparent ; that is , it was found that , as the pressure diminished , the potential difference required to produce a spark across a given distance fell to a minimum value , and then began to increase rapidly .
To examine this effect more fully , o the observations were confined to pressures ranging from 20 to n 2

