]\gt ; Mr. G. H. Livens .
On the example will illustrate its order of nitude .
Consider a composed initially of equal numbers of molecules which are similar to one another in mass and other dynamical properties ( since the phenomenon does not , like thermal diffusion , depend on molecular differences , this assumption may imately be made , in order to obtain a simple numerical illustration ) .
We will suppose that the gas is at normal temperature and pressure , and that the olecules are similar in mass and size to oxygen molecules , from one another in some other respects .
Then if the proportions are changing at such a rate that at the end of one second there will be 51 per cent. of one component to 49 per cent. of the other , a temperature difference of about one thousand-millionth of a degree Centigrade will be set up , the hotter gas being that which is in , ratio .
Thus equi- partition of energy is dibturbed only by a ible amount even in this rather extreme case .
On of Energy By G. H. LIVENS , The University , Sheffield .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received September 19 , 1916 .
) 1 .
There still appears to be some uncertainty in the expression for the total energy of a magnetic field , and the mode of its separation into its fundam.ental constituents , as to the aether and the matter .
This is chiefly due to certain discrepancies of which exist in the results of the theory in its statical and dynamical aspects .
In the statical theory the energy is usually made to appear as though distributed over the field with the density , which corresponds to an ethereal density of amount , but in the dynamical theory the same expressions obtained with opposite signs .
In some quarters it is considered that there are difficulties of a fundamental nature involved in any attempt to remove this discrepancy , and several authors*have tried to construct a more consistent theory on a new basis .
The object of the present note is mainly to prove that it is possible to interpret the older and more usual form of the theory in a perfectly logical and consistent manner , so that the aforementioned discrepancy does not *Cf .
'Encyclopadie der mathematischen Wissenschaften , ' vol. 5 , Art .
15 , " " Electrostatik .
Magnetostatik\ldquo ; ( R. Gans ) , p. 338 , where full references are given .
lations of the Energy of even present itself .
It is shown that the whole difficulty arises partly from an unfortunate choice of ethereal vector , and partly also in the fact that the usual expression for the energy density in the statical case , although in complete agree1uent with the proper total , is not the proper expression to use in a consistent theory .
It has already been emphasised by Larmor*that the netic induction vector is by far the lnole suitable vector to use in defining conditions in the netic field of the aether .
In fact , in a strict theory , the tYnetic induction is the vector , and the netic force is an auxiliary vector derived in the process of the small molecular current whirls into their effectiye representation as a distribution of magnetic polarity .
We interpret all our results in terms of the netic induction , instead of the more usual netic force .
2 .
In the statical theory of tYnetism , the involved in the fnetic ption in any stationary field is to be considered as the potential of the sepal'ate poles of the elementary nets of which it is composed .
This is easily seen to be equivalent to a distribution of amount per unit volume at any place equal to , wherein I is the intensity of the polarisation produced at the , and is the intensity of force in the field , which in the present instance may be regarded as derived from an acyclic potential .
Of this the part , is alone concerned with the mechanical bodily forces on the netic media , of which it may be regarded as the potential function .
Tbis follows in the usual manner the principle of virtual work , which implies that the work done by such mechanical forces per unit volume in any small displacement of the body is ( IH ) , wherein , however , the internal constitution of the medium , as specified in its polarisation , is to remain unaltered during displacement , so that all the mechanical work is properly converted , and none of it off as energy of intrinsic deformation and consequently of effectively non-available character in the medium ; or it may be deduced from the fact that the linear forcive per unit volume on the medium , calcu- lated from first principles , is equal to , wherein is the usual Hamiltoni.an vector operator . .
his book Ether and Matter , ' and also the paper " " On the ynamic and Thermal Relations of the Energy of Magnetisation : Ro Soc. Proc vol. 71 , p. 229 ( 1904 ) .
The coutents of this latter paper suggested the developments sketched in the present note .
Mr. G. H. Livens .
On the Mechanical The remaining part of the total , or , represents work done by the internal elastic or motional forces } the setting up of the polarisations .
With sign changed it may be regarded as of effectively non-magnetic nature stored up in the medium on account of the polarisation induced in it .
3 .
Let us now examine the distribution of the total netic energy in the field on the supposition that it arises from a distribution of rigid magnetic polarity of density at any point .
The total energy may be calculated as the mechanical work done in building up the rigid magnetism radually in the presence of the isable substances , the induced magnetism simultaneously taking its appropriate value at any of the process .
Suppose that at any instant tlJe intensity of force at the typical field point is , then the work supplied by external systems in bringing up additional small } lent of polarity to each place the field is clearly equal to , the being taken throughout the field .
Now by definition of , where I is now reserved for the intensity of the induced polarity , so that Thus the total work done in establishing the field may be written in the form But if there are no sudden discontinuities in the field , and any such be treated as continuous rapid transitions , it is easy to prove*that ( S ) These follow in the usual way because the induction vector is always circuital , and the force vector in the present case is derived from an acyclic potential .
Thus the expression for the total in the field reduces to - .
*Cf .
Jeans , ' Electricity and Magnetism ' ( 1st Ed p. 387 .
Rdations of the Energy of Magnetisation .
The second integral in this last expression represents the internal elastic or motional energy stored up in the magnetic media on account of the polarity induced in them .
The first integral therefore represents the true netic potential energy of the system , and on a tentative theory could now be regarded as distributed hout the field with a density at any place .
Of this latter part of the energy the term in the polarisation represenvs of a purely local or intrinsic nature in the magnetic lnedia , whilst the other term represents the part of the that must be associated with the field in the aether .
4 .
Of the true potential in the field , - the part corresponds to the polarisations induced in the metic media .
It is concerned mainly with the fnetic attractions , or their equivalent mechanical forces , exerted by the field on the polarised media as a whole , of which it may be regarded as the potential function .
The remainder , or - , corresponds to the polarisation and is , in fact , the potential function of the mechanical reactions on the permanent uets vivino Since , this part may be written in the form , which , since in very stage of the process reduces to in reement with the result of S2 . .
When the induction follows a linear isotropic law , so that Mr. G. H. Livens .
On the we have and therefore and In this case the stored in the onetic media on account of the induced polarisation is whilst the of truly etic nature in the field is equal to the ralo of The total associated with the system is therefore sinlply equal to dv , and it may be as distributed the field with density if the constant local part in is omitted , as it would be mechanical theory .
At points of the field where there is no neGism this density is the same as , which is the expression usually derived , but the opposite .
The difference of arises from the fact that in the usual interpretation of these relations an expression is adopted for density which fers from that just deduced by zero total on the whole .
We next turn to the consideration of the circumstances in the more eneral type of magnetic field when there are linear colldlction currents as well as permanent nets and netisable media .
The work required in order to increase the typical current in one of conductors by the infinitesimal mount is in electroma ( fnetic units ; denotes the number of unit ) of induction which thread the circuit of J. Thus the totRl supplied by the batteries in starting the currents is where denotes a sum relative to the various linear currents and in the last expression the surface ralb for each circuit is taken .
a barrier surface usnal i , s derivable from a potential cy clic with respe the tiltiCe this proved by the usIlal .
to be to the vohlme integral taken the field .
inchde for generality hont Ihe field of intensity any } ) oint , and if current Hystem , additional nnonnt of } ' the internal the syenl Io .
Thus the total ) ) energy ) up in the telll is But if there are ) substances in the field , and if at any stage of the ) uilding up the system the intensity of the induced polarity is I , then It is then easy to prove that the total energy of the can be expressed in the fornl - .
The last term represents the increase in the intrinsic .
of the induced polarisations in the field and the first the increase of the purely tYnetic energy .
This latter part may be as distribu(ed through the field with the density at any point .
These results are identical with deduced case in S3 .
In the case when the netisation f ) a linear isotropic law the expression for the total in the field again reduces the simple expresses it as a with density at place , just as in the previous case .
7 .
Of the total purely ( tnetic nature stored ) in fiel of amount VOL. XCIII .
is ( '( JnRi n the rrents and in fact , ] tial function ( thi and of the of the magnets then .
A similar } nsforIJlation , } of that ) plied in S6 , S00YI shows that ] ) is to lf thele is ) about this is the oliy of total in the lield that is mechanically available .
Of rest of the ener( the part similarly concerlled with the rigidly netised masses , being , in fact , the force function of their mechanical interactions and the interactions of the held with them .
The remainder , 01 , is concel.ned in a way with the induced 8 .
we tate that in a general thatio of the energy netic field complete consistency is obtained by fnetic induction instead of the force as mdamental vector the theory .
This arises partly on of the main characteristic properties of that vector and artly from the fact that the total energy in the field be expl.essed in a form which exhibits it as consisting of the intrinsic the ) polarisations ether with an amount equivalent to a distribution with density differing from by the purely local term .
This latter part can only represent energy of a purely local or acter and in mechanical theory would be omitted entirely .
Moreover in tion , the total energy in the lield when the induction ollows a linear law is expressible in the form which is consistent with the value for the den ) in Irse there ( .
It is , haps , sary to emphasise the , throughout the preseut energy is treated as potential energy .
If it is desired , treat it etic e must be reversed .
In On the Relations of the Energy of .
27 dynamics it is the Lagrangian function that determines everything , so that , if a part of the energy is reckoned as kinetic energy , it has the opposite sig to what it would have if reckoned as potential energy .
The failure to recognise this difference in the two types of energy in the present instance appears to be the cause of much of the confusion in the subject .
The usual treatment of the relations of the magnetic field gives the same to a quantity which in the statical case is treated as potential energy and in the dynamical case as kinetic , and this apparent agreement of sign appears to satisfy most authors , so that the real discrepancy has rarely been noticed .
The present mode of treatment has actually been suggested by Cohn , * but he rejects it as unsatisfacto ) because it leads to opposite for kinetic and potential energies .
In another place Jeans comes up against the opposite , but reconciles them by finding that one of the expressions compared is incomplete by an amount which makes the signs the same .
On Phenomena relating to the Spectra of Hydrogen and Helium .
By T. B. MERTON , D.Sc .
, and .
J. W. NICHOLSON , M.A. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by A. Fowler , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1916 .
) ( Abstract .
) In a previous paper the structure of broadened spectrum lines was investigated by a method involving the use of a neutral-tinted wedge as an accessory to the spectroscope .
The present communication deals with a method for the accurate determination of the raphic intensities of spectrum lines and the reduction of such intensities to absolute values by comparison with the continuous black-body radiation of the carbon arc .
These methods have been applied to a study of the relative intensity distribution in the spectra of helium and hydrogen under different conditions of excitation .
It has been found that under certain specified conditions tltere is a transfer of energy from the longer to the shorter wave-lengths in any given series , and that , under such conditions , the associated series , and in particular the Diffuse series , are relatively enhanced at the expense of the Principal series .
'Das Electromagnetische , ' p. 300 .
' Electricity and Magnetism , ' p. 432 .
VOL. XCIIL\mdash ; A.

