1872 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on the Contact of Surfaces .
179 February 22 1872 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Contact of Surfaces .
" By William Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received January 18 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions ( 1870 , p. 289 ) , I have considered the contact , at a point P , of two curves which are co-planar sections of two surfaces ( U , V ) ; and have examined somewhat in detail the case where one of the curves , viz. the section of V , is a conic .
In the method there employed , the condition that the point P should be sextatic , involved the azimuth of the plane of section measured about an axis passing through P ; and consequently , regarded as an equation in the azimuth , it showed that the point would be sextactic for certain definite sections .
It does not , however , follow , if conics having six-pointic contact with the surface U be drawn in the planes so determined , that a single quadric surface can be made to pass through them all .
The investigation therefore of the memoir above quoted was not directly concerned with the contact of surfaces , although it may be considered as dealing with a problem intermediate to the contact of plane curves and that of surfaces .
In the present investigation I have considered a point P common to the two surfaces U and V , an axis drawn arbitrarily through P , and a plane of section passing through the axis and capable of revolution about it .
Proceeding as in the former memoir , and forming the equations for contact of various degrees , and finally by rendering them independent of the azimuth , we obtain the conditions for contact for all positions of the cutting plane about the axis .
Such contact is called circumaxal ; and in particular it is called uniaxal , biaxal , \amp ; c. , according as it subsists for one , two , \amp ; e. axes .
If it holds for all axes through the point , it is called superficial contact ; and in the memoir some theorems are established relating to the number of sections along which contact of a given degree must subsist in order to ensure uniaxal contact , as well as to the connexion between uniaxal and multiaxal contact .
At the conclusion of S 3 it is shown that the method of plane sections may , in the cases possessing most interest and importauce , be replaced by the more general method of curved sections .
In the concluding section a few general considerations are given relating to the determination of surfaces having superficial contact of various degrees with given surfaces ; and at the same time I have indicated how very much the general theory is affected by the particular circumstances of each case .
The question of a quadric having four-pointic superficial con180 Mr. W. Whitehouse on a New Hygrometer .
[ Feb. 22 , tact with a given surface is considered more in detail ; and it is shown how in general such a quadric degenerates into the tangent plane taken twice .
To this there is apparently an exceptional case , the condition for which is given and reduced to a comparatively simple form ; but I must admit to having so left it , in the hope of giving a fuller discussion of it on a future occasion .
' 1 The subject of three-pointic superficial contact was considered by Dupin , * Developpements de Geometric,5 p. 12 5 and , as I have learnt since the memoir was written , a general theorem connecting superficial contact and contact along various branches of the curve of intersection of two surfaces ( substantially the same as that given in the text ) was enunciated by M. Moutard* .
In a corollary to this theorem , M. Moutard states that through every point of a surface there can be drawn twenty-seven conics , having six-pointic contact with the surface .
This number is perhaps open to question ; and I have even reason to think , from considerations stated to me by Mr. Clifford , that the number ten given in my memoir above quoted may be capable of reduction by unity to nine .
But this question refers to the subject of that earlier memoir rather than to this .
II .
" On a New Hygrometer .
" By Wildman Whitehouse , Esq. Communicated by Sir W. Thomson , F.R.S. Received January 6 , 1872 .
The use of Mason 's wet-bulb thermometer as a means of hygrometric measurement , though it be admitted to be the most practically useful , and indeed the only recording instrument for the purpose , has yet this serious inconvenience , not to say defect , viz. that its indications either cease or are valueless at temperatures below 32 ' F. In a conversation which the writer had with the Director of the Meteorological Office some months ago , the question arose whether any thing could be suggested to remedy this inconvenience .
It was obviously inadmissible to substitute any other fluid for , or to make any addition to , the water employed for the wet bulb , as then it would cease to he a test for the purely hygrometric capacity of the air .
It became therefore necessary to fall back in another direction , and to find some hygrometric body which should readily and rapidly absorb moisture from the air , and at the same time afford some means of measuring and re* cording the amount of such absorption .
Fused chloride of zinc or of calcium seemed promising as very active agents , absorbing rapidly on their surface , and allowing the readiest possible escape of the fluid hydrate for measurement ; yet no means presented itself either of accurately measuring , regulating , or maintaining the exact extent of surface exposed for absorption ; nor could the substance itself be * Poncelet , ' Applications d'Analyse k la G6om6trie , ' 1864 , tom .
ii .
p. 363 .

