]\gt ; Photochemical of the Plate .
By B. E. SLADE , D.Sc .
, F.I.C. , and G. I. HIGSON , M.Sc .
, A.I.C. ( Communicated by Prof. J. N. Collie , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received June 26 , 1920 .
[ PLATE 4 ] .
Introduction .
Many theories of the latent and of the means by which light impressions are produced in the raphic plate have been developed from time to time , but most of these theories are so indefinite that they cannot be tested experimentally , and are of no use in forecasting what will happen under fixed conditions .
A quantitative theory was put forward by Hurter and Driffield , their theory was further advanced by Channon .
Some of the difficulties inherent in this theory have been pointed out by Bloch and and by Channon , Renwick , and Storr .
S There is no need to go into details this theory of Hurter and Driffield , as the experiments described below show that two of their fundamental assumptions are not true .
The gelatine dry plate consists of a skin or pellicle of dried gelatine , coutaining particles of silver bromide or a mixture of silver bromide and silver iodide .
The average commercial plate contains about gramme of crelatine and gramme of silver bl.omide per square decimetre of surface .
On such plate the coating of dried gelatine is about 25 microns ( micron mm. thick , and if the plate is a process plate containing grains about in diameter , there will be about three and a half layers of grains in the coating .
If it is a fast plate with grains in size up to 2 or 3 , it will contain only one to two layers of particles .
These layers are of distributed at random through the film .
Fig. 1 , Plate 4 , is a photomicrograph of a section of a photographic film , cut at right angles to the surface , the section being cut with a microtome without embedding in any way .
The layer of emulsion as seen in fig. 1 is in exactly the same state as it would be when exposed in the camera .
Unfortunately , it has not been possible to cut a section of thickness equal to the diameter of a single grain .
The section in fig. 1 is probably about 10 or 15 thick , so that many of the particles are out of focus .
If a straight line 'Jour .
Soc. Chem. Ind May , 1890 .
'Phot .
Jour vol. 46 , p. 216 ( 1906 ) .
'Phot .
Jour vol. 56 , p. 49 ( 1916 ) .
Phot .
Jour vol. 68 , p. 121 ( 1918 ) .
Photochernical Investigations of the Photographic Ptate .
155 were drawn through the film shown in this figure , perpendicular to the surface at any point , it would only cut through two or three particles .
Silver bromide crystallises at ordinary temperatures in the regular system in the form of cubes , but if the crystals are grown in the presence of gelatine , as in emulsion-making , they assume the form of triangular or hexagonal plates , tetrahedra , or crystals with curved faces .
Silver bromide and silver iodide together form mixed crystals in the cubic system , even at ordinary temperatures .
* and 3 are typical photomicrographs of the crystals existing in photographic plates .
When the crystals are less than across , it is impossible to say whether they are crystalline or not , but since there is , so far as is known , perfect continuity in the properties of plates containing particles varying from ultramicroscopic dimensions to 2 or 3 , and , as the latter particles are most certainly crystalline , it seems legitimate to assume that the smallest particles are also crystalline .
Preliminary experiments have shown that the grain or crystal of silver halide is the photochemical unit in the gelatine dry plate .
A plate is coated with a very thin layer of photographic emulsion , so that the gelatine film in it contains only one layer of grain and the plate is then , after drying , exposed to light for a time insufficient to make all the particles developable .
If the plate is then developed , washed , and dried without fixing and examined in the microscope , it is found that some of the grains have become chahged to silver while others are unaffected .
The appearance of such a plate is shown in fig. 4 .
It therefore seems reasonable to assume that each grain acts quite independently and that one grain which has become developable is unable to make a grain , situated in close proximity to it , developable unless the latter grain is developable in itself .
This is clearly shown in fig. 4 .
If this thinly coated plate is exposed to light for a longer time or to light of greater intensity , more and more of the grains are made developable .
It is therefore obvious that the grain or crystal of silver halide is the photochemical unit in the dry plate , and a theory of the photographic plate can only be built up on a knowledge of the photochemical behaviour of the single grain of silve !
halide .
The photochemioal law of the silver halide grain was therefore made the subject of the present investigation .
The blackening obtained on development of a photographic plate which has been exposed to light of a given intensity for a given time is determined by the following factors:\mdash ; ( I ) The Photochemical Law of the Silver Halide Grain , that is , the law *ThieL Zeit . .
anorganische Chem vol. 24 , p. 1 ( 1900 ) .
Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. G. I. Higson .
determining the relation between , the probability of a single grain being made developable in unit time , and , the time of exposure , and I , the intensity of light to which the grain is exposed , i.e. , the form of the equation .
( II ) If the grains are not all the same in size and quality , there will be a law for each set of identical grains .
( All experimental evidence leads to the conclusion that all grains one emulsion behave identically if they are of the same size .
) ( II1 ) If the silver halide absorbs actinic light the intensity of such light will fall off as it passes through the coating on the plate , so that the back layers of the silver bromide particles will be exposed to much weaker light than the front layers .
The light gradient through the film will depend on ( a ) the absorption of light by the silver bromide , ( b ) the relative refractive indices of the grains and of the gelatine which determine reflexiO , ( c ) the closeness of packing of the grains .
( IV ) meant consists in reducing to metallic silver , either wholly or partially , those rains whichave been made developable by light .
Since different developers act at different rates ( also varying with the temperature ) and diffuse at different rates into the elatine layer , and as the state of dispersion of the silver formed varies to some extent with the developer used , the blackening must be affected by the developer .
But it has been shown by Hurter and Driffield , Sheppard and Mees , and others that for a.given plate and a given developer the photometric density is proportional to the amount of metallic silver in the lilm .
From the experiments mentioned above , and from the work of others , especially Luther , appears that when a grain of halide becomes developable there is formed in it a nucleus which is effective in causing development to take place .
It should be remembered that the function of gelatine during development is to make development of grains which have not been affected by extremely slow .
or some similar substance is not present , all grains exposed or unexposed develop equally well .
If ( following Einstein ) it is assumed that is discrete in nature , and that it is only necessary for one of these light quanta to be absorbed by a gTain to make it ( levelopable , then if there were a number of grains , , present on the plate , and they were exposed to alight of intensity , I , for a time , , after which tinle grains had been made developable , 'Zeit .
phys .
Chem vol. 30 , pp. 628 , 662 ( 1899 ) .
Photochemical Investigations of the Photographic Plate .
157 and integrating between limits to and to or .
If the grains were of different sizes , the probability of their obtaining a nucleus would vary , the larger grains being more likely to be affected ; would therefore have a different value for each size of grain .
The present investigation has shown that has a larger value for larger grains , but also that it is not generally true that the number of grains changed is a simple metion of the product It .
It is therefore impossible that the mechanism of the process is the absorption of light in crete quanta , as has been assumed above .
In this investigation of the photochemical law of the silver halide rain , plates were prepared from an emulsion containing rains which were , as nearly as possible , all the same size .
The emulsion was coated on the plate in such a thin layer that there was only one layer of grains .
These plates were exposed either to varying intensities for the same time or to the same intensity for varying times .
The source of used was monochromatic blue light from the mercury arc in some cases , and white ( continuous spectrum ) in others .
If the total number of grains present is , and is the number changed after exposure for a time , , to a light of intensity , I , then , where is the probability of any grain being made developable in unit time , and is a function of I and of Integrating therefore This , however , does not make it possible to evaluate as a function of I and without making other assumptions .
The experimental values of this integral will now be considel .
, and afterwards the assumptions which it is necessary to make to obtain a relation between , and , which shall be in agreement with experimental facts , be discussed .
Bcperimental.\mdash ; In order to investigate factor ( ( the Photochemical Law of the Silver Halide Grain ) , the other three factors have been eliminated in the following manner .
The plates which were used were coated with such a Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. G. I. Higson .
thin layer of emulsion that there was only a single layer of grains on the plate ; this eliminates factor ( III ) .
In the emulsion used to coat these plates all the grains were of the same size , and experimental proof has been obtained that they were all of the same quality ; this eliminates factor ( II ) .
Fig. 5 is a photomicrograph of the emulsion and shows that the grains were about in diameter and were practically all the same size .
The plates were exposed to light under various controlled conditions , developed to infinity in a restrained developer ( which does not develop unexposed grains in a reasonable time ) , washed and dried without fixing .
They were then examined with the microscope and the total number of present a yiven area and the number which had been blackened by development were counted .
It was found that , for the same exposure , the fraction of the total number of grains which were blackened was for the same plate independent of the developer used ; this eliminates factor ( IV ) .
Preparation Plates with One Layer of Halide Grains.\mdash ; A commercial process plate having all the grains of one size was chosen .
In non-actinic light the emulsion on one quarter-plate was dissolved in 100 .
of 5 per cent. gelatine solution at C. Glass slips , 4 inches by 1 inch , were coated by dipping them into the dilute emulsion ( kept at shaking off the superfluous liquid and drying them in a current of cold dry air .
The plates are thus , of course , coated on both sides .
One side is then coated with red backing paper , to absorb light which would otherwise be reflected from the back of the plate .
Development.\mdash ; After exposure , the plate was developed for three inutes at C. in a developer composed of amidol KBr , water 100 .
This developer has no effect on unexposed grains in five minutes at C. , bub completely develops the grains in three minutes .
The plate was next erhly washed in the dark , and then dried without fixing .
mination of the iVumbe of Grains Developed.\mdash ; The plates were examined visually in the microscope , and the number of changed ( black ) and unchanged ( transparent ) grains in a iven area counted .
The appearance of such plates in the microscope has already been shown in fig. 4 .
The area in which the number of grains was counted each time was by i.e. , sq .
mm. , and usually contained from 200 bo 500 rains , according to the ing of the emulsion .
If the exposed and unexposed grains are distributed entirely at random over the surface of tha plate , from the law of probability can be calculated the average error , in assuming that the percentage of each present is equal to the percentage obtained by counting a finite number of grains .
Photochemical Investigations of the Photographic Plate .
159 If is the number of events , and and are the probabilities of the two events , and , happening , the average error , , is given by the equation ; whence the percentage error In the counting of the grains , the number of events , , is the number of grains counted , and and are the fractions of the total number which are changed and unchanged respectively .
That is , or The following values of the percentage error have been calculated from the values of and As a rule , about 500 grains were counted , which reduces the error to a reasonable figure without necessitating the counting of an excessive number of grains .
Bffect of Diferent Developers.\mdash ; The following experiment shows that the fraction of the total number of grains blackened after a given exposure was independent of the developer used , so long as the developer was sufficiently restrained to prevent fogging during the time of development .
A thinly coated plate was exposed to light , so as to change about 80 per cent. of the g1ains .
It was then cut in half , and the two halves were developed at C. for about three minutes in ) amidol anffi ( B ) metolhydroquinone respectively , and finished in the way described above .
The numbers of the unchanged and blackened grains were then counted on giv en above .
Metol-hydroquinone developer : Metol 0 , hydroquinone , KBr , water It will be seen that the values and per cent. are in as good reement as could expected from the probability theory , for the average percentage error on the per cent. would be 100 per cent. , and the percentage error on the per cent. would be 100 per cent. Similar results were obtained with other developers .
The Form of tfoe unction P .
( 1 ) nation of the Effect of Variation of Light Intensity , the Time of Exposure being Constant , .
In these experiments , the thinly coated plates were exposed to monochromatic blue or to white light behind a Goldberg neutral wedge .
This Photochemical Investigations of the Plate .
161 wedge consisted of a dried pellicle of gelatine , containing finely divided carbon , mounted between two sheets of glass .
* The opacity increased from the thin end in such a way that , if two points , and , were distant and cm .
from the thin end of the wedge , then if the wedge was evenly illuminated , the intensity transmitted at equalled times the intensity at S. It was therefore possible to determine the relative intensity to which any part of the plate had been exposed .
The constant of the wedge was determined by measurement in a spectrophotometer .
The wedge has been found to be quite neutral over the range of wave-lengths used , and in this respect the Goldberg wedge is much better than any " " neutral\ldquo ; glass wedge which has been prepared up to the present .
Monochromatic blue light was obtained by filtering the from a mercury arc through two filters , one consisting of a gelatine film dyed with methyl violet , and the other of a solution of cupric chloride in saturated potassium chloride .
Precautions were taken to ensure that the was always evenly illuminated , and that the time of exposure was the same all over the wedge .
In different experiments , the intensity incident upon the wedge was varied by altering the distance between the wedge and the light source .
Where the incident intensity was reat , the time of exposure was less , so that there was always a portion of the plate ( under the most opaque portion of the wedge ) which had not been affected appreciably by the light .
The mercury arc burned steadily during any one particular experiment , but the used in the arc was only approximately the same in different experiments .
Since the experiments are not strictly coml ) arable with one another , owing to other variations in the conditions ( e.g. , the speeds of two different batches of thin plates will never be exactly the same ) , this variability of condition is not important .
In Experiments 1-5 the incident intensity is given in terms of , the intensity at 1 metre from the light source , with the blue filters in position .
In Experiment 6 no filters were used , and therefore the intensity is in no way comparable with that in Experiments 1-5 .
In Experiments 6-10 white light was used .
From the values of thus obtained , the values of ( which will be denoted by A ) were calculated , as this has been shown above , to be equal to .
* Goldberg , ' Brit. Jour .
Phot vol. 57 , p. 648 ( 1910 ) .
Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. G. I. Higson .
approaches 100 per cent. Consequently , very small errors in above 90 per cent. produce enormous errors in , and values of A greater than 3 are most unreliable .
Nevertheless , it will be seen , from an inspection of the figures , that when I is great and is small , , and when I is small and is great , .
A function which will give this is .
For when I is small is also small and and when I is large is small compared with unity , and therefore is , of course , a function of , and of the size ( i.e. , the speed ) of the grains .
has been found to be a function of the quality of the light .
If the light is monochromatic , or concentrated in narrow bands , as in the mercury arc , is large ; but , if the light is white ( continuous spectrum ) , is small , and , therefore , for very much higher intensities , A is a linear function of .
By higher intensity is meant an intensity that changes more errains in a given time .
The above conclusions are easily drawn by references to figs. 6-12 , and particularly by a comparison of figs. 6-8 with figs. 10-12 .
Fig. 9 is a typical curve , with from the mercury arc without a light filter , that is to say , with the blue hne and all the lines of this arc of shorter affecting the plate .
In this case the curves are somewhat similar to those obtained with monochromatic blue light .
Figs. 10-12 show some curves obtained with a continuous spectrum , and it will be noticed that in these curves the change from A being a linear function of I , to A being a linear function of , does not take place at such an intensity that the time required to change half the grains ( i.e. , when is about one minute , as is the case with monochromatic blue light , but that all the curves show A a linear function of , even when the intensity is so great that the exposure to change half the grains is very short indeed .
The explanation of this phenomenon is probably that the width of the spectrum over which light energy collectively forms a quantum is very narrow .
That is to say , using monochromatic light , all the energy is of the same kind , and therefore the number of quanta is , where is the total light energy .
But if the.light is distributed over a continuous spectrum , and there are perhaps a thousand different regions of the spectrum whioh Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. G. I. Higson .
not reinforce one another , then , if the energy in each of these were the same , there would not be even one complete quantum formed until 1000 ergs bad been absorbed , and then 1000 quanta would be completed at once .
In actual cases , the energy varies in the different regions of the spectrum .
All these eriments show that the same amount of light energyis much less on the grains if it is spread over a range of tloe spectrum than if it ( joncentrated in one sputrum line .
2 ) Determination of the Effect of Variation of Time of Exposure , Loght Intensity being Constant .
Since A is a function of both I and , it is necessary to consider , along with the curves obtained by variation of intensity , those obtained by keeping the intensity constant and varying the time .
This was found to be more difficult than the investigation of the intensity curves , as variation of time can only be obtained by some mechanical device , which may be the cause of additional errors .
In the experiments which follow , the variation of time was obtained either by use of the ordinary H. and D. sector wheel exposure machine , or by a special apparatus designed for the purpose .
* In both cases the exposure is non-intermittent , the non-intermittency of the special machine being inherent , and the same effect being obtained with the H. and D. machine by running it very slowly , and using only one revolution for an exposure , the interrupted sector not being used .
This precaution is absolutely necessary , as it has been found during these experiments that intermittency has a marked disturbing effect .
The lumination of a plate during exposure was subject to the same precautions as those taken in the first set of experiments ( Experiments 1-10 ) , and the development and counting of the grains , etc. , were exactly similar .
The following results were obtained , in which , as in ( 1 ) Intensity Scale Experiments ) , denotes the intensity of the monochromatic blue light at a distance of 1 metre and A the probability integral * Higson , ' Phot .
Jour vol. 60 , p. 236 ( 1920 ) .
Cf .
Jones , ' Phot .
Jour vol. 60 , p. 80 ( 1920 ) .
Prof. C. F. Jenkin .
Dilatation and These results will be applied and extended to the case of the actual hotographic plate .
The possibility of obtaining this formula for the probability integral on purely theoretical grounds is also under investigation .
Summary .
( 1 ) It has been shown that the silver halide grain is the photochemical unit in the photographic plate .
( 2 ) A method has been devised whereby the law of the photochemical behaviour of these grains can be investigated , free from the disturbing effects of development , etc. , which occur in the photographic plate itself .
3 ) From experimental results obtained , a formula has been deduced , which shows the relation between the behaviour of the silver halide grains , the light intensity to which they have been exposed , and the time of exposure .
( 4 ) The results show that it is impossible for the mechanism of the process to be the absorption of light in discrete quanta , and that a given amount of light energy has a greatel effect photographically when conoentrated into a short range of wave-lengths than when it is distributed over a large range .
Dilatation Compressibility of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
By C. F. JENKIN , C.B.E. , M.Inst .
C.E. , Professor of Engineering Oxford .
Communicated fred Ewing , Received July In a former paper*it was pointed out that , in order to determine a starting point for drawing the , and I diagrams for , it was necessary to know the coefficient of expansion of the liquid at constant pressure .
The results of a series of measurements on the dilatation and elasticity of the liquid were given ( fig. 11 , p. 78 ) , but it was pointed out that the results obtained were not in agreement amongst themselves , though sufficiently accurate for the purpose for which they were needed , and it was stated that a new series of measurements were about to be made .
These measurements , delayed by the war , have now been completed and are described in the following paper .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 213 , p. 76 ( 1914 ) .
The present research was undertaken for the Engineering Committee of the Food Investigation Board of the Department of Scientific Research .

