Some further Observations on Atmospherical Refraction .
By Stephen Groombridge , Esq. F.R.S. Read March 31,1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 337 .
] In the author 's former communication to the Society on the subject of atmospheric refraction , he considered the observations of stars that were more than 80 ?
from the zenith as not to be sufficiently depended upon for the determination of refraction in general ; and accordingly , in his computation of a formula for that purpose , n Ursme Majoris , at 70ยง 10 ' zenith distance , was the lowest star included in his estimate .
By applying that formula to stars below 80 ?
zenith distance , Mr. Groombridge has since found some correction to be necessary ; for the refraction at the low altitudes is not really so great as might be presumed from that of stars less distant from the zenith .
He has consequently been induced to make a course of observations on other circumpolar stars , beyond the former limits , and as near to his north horizon as the situation of his observatory would permit .
Since the formula of Dr. Bradley appears most conveniently applicable to the purposes of the practical astronomer , but not quite correct in the numbers assumed for refraction at 45 ?
, and for the coefficient of x , the author has endeavoured to find out such numbers as would correspond more accurately with observation , and has found that the same formula may be made to serve as low down as to 870 of zenith distance , by increasing the amount of the numbers before mentioned still a little nor than he had formerly done .
But for stars of less altitude than this , or within three degrees of the horizon , he found that the same formula could not be made to serve throughout , but that it became necessary to vary the amount of the coefficient y nearly in proportion to the excess above 87 ?
zenith distance .
The table of observations on which these estimates are founded is divided into two parts ; the former of which is the result of more than 240 observations made upon sixteen stars between 80 ?
and 87 ?
zenith distance ; and the latter is founded upon six other stars between 87 ?
and 88ยง 42 ' zenith distance .
The difference of the obliquities of the ecliptic , as deduced from the summer and winter solstices , or disagreement between the elevation of the equator , thence deduced , and the zenith distance of the pole , as inferred from the zenith distance of circumpolar stars , is ascribed by the author to error in the quantities of refraction , which was assumed too small by Dr. Bradley , And he remarks , that , on the contrary , his observations of the solstices , when reduced according to his own improved formula for refraction , agree in giving results that correspond with his observations of circumpolar stars .
With respect to thermometrical corrections , Mr. Groombridge observes , that his results appear to be most correct when reduced by the state of the thermometer without-doors instead of that which is within ; and that the difference is very considerable where the zenith distances are so great as those included in the present remarks .

