.356 Dr. J. W. Capstick .
The excitation of the retina caused by the stimulus of the ish-green light of the lime-light spectrum , reflected from \#171 ; ^v cardboard in 1/ 72 sec. ( i.e. , 160/ 360 of 1/ 32 ) lasts undiminish f 5/ 288 sec. ( i.e. , 200/ 360 of 1/ 32 ) , i.e. , about 1/ 58 sec. Taking the next point G ( 180 ' ) above this last point , we finchai the " last " of the stimulus of the same yellowish-green , apply \lt ; f0\#163 ; 1/ 64 sec. is 1/ 64 sec. Thus , tabulating the results for 'a few points including the above two , Stimulus for Y.G. H 5 ?
applied 1/ 72 sec. lasts 5/ 288 ; \amp ; 288/ 5 x 72/ 1 \#187 ; 1/ 64 " 1/ 64 " 64x64 " 1/ 58 " \#187 ; 1/ 49 " \#187 ; 1/ 40 " \#187 ; 1/ 32 " 1/ 72 " 58x72 1/ 92 " 49 x 92 1/ 120 " 40 x120 1/ 160 " 32x160 =147 =096 =176 =508 =80S = 120 Hence the duration of the impression on the retina undiminM appears to decrease as the time of stimulation increases , thigh within narrow limits of variation one of these quantities is nd ?
inversely proportional to the other .
With regard to the total duration of a luminous impression .
; be writer would point out that nothing has been said in this paper hr few experiments he has made to measure this , lead to the belieftafc it is almost of a different order of magnitude from the time dntng which an impression remains undiminished , and is to be meas**fc by whole minutes rather than by small fractions of a second .
* " On the Kathode Fall of Potential in Gases .
" By J. V. Capstick , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of Trinity College , Oxbridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , , F#H Received May 17 , \#151 ; Read May 26 , 1898 .
It has been shown by Hittorf* that when an electric current pa ; s through a tube containing a gas at a pressure of a few millimel-t there is a rapid fall of potential near each of the electrodes , wit ; ; much more gentle fall in the space between , and whilst the fall rr the anode and in the positive column varies with the density of c gas and the current strength , the fall near the kathode is const ; ' Warburgf has made careful experiments on the kathode fall , and s fully established its constancy .
If the gas is pure and dry , electrodes clean , and of a metal not acted on chemically by the g\lt ; * * Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 20 , p. 705 .
t ' Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 31 , p. 545 j vol. 40 , p. 1 .
On the Kathode Fall of Potential Gases .
357 the current not so strong as to make the negative glow cover the ole kathode or extend to the walls of the tube , the kathode fall \#166 ; a definite value for each gas\#151 ; a value that is independent of the ssure of the gas , or of the current strength , and that appears , in - to be a constant of the gas .
'his being the case , it is probable that the kathode fall will prove , be connected with other physical and chemical constants of the and the aim of the experiments described below was to find other there is any intelligible relation amongst the kathode falls of ee gases , one of which is formed by the combination of the other \gt ; .
die choice of suitable gases is very limited , for there must be no Position of solid matter by the current , and no chemical action i ween the gas and the electrode , so that organic gases and gases taining a halogen cannot be used\#151 ; at least with metal electrodes , ie present investigation has been confined to water vapour , ammonia , l nitric oxide and their constituents .
The general plan of the apparatus was the same for all the gases , l is shown in the figure below .
The gas generating apparatus was sealed on at A. , and a mercuiy imp at L. In order to isolate the generating flask from the rest , e mercury trap B was used .
By raising the reservoir 0 , the mer-iry could be made to rise above the bend at B , and thus everything the right could be exhausted .
D is a small bulb to catch stray mer-iry .
E is the purifying apparatus , and F the vessel in which the scharge took place .
This vessel consisted of a globe 15 cm .
m ameter , into which were sealed three wires ; G , the anode of alumi- , um , 2 mm. thick ; K , the kathode of platinum , 2 mm. thick , and lending 10 cm .
into the globe , so as to aiford plenty of free space \gt ; r the negative glow ; and H , a thin platinum wire , covered with lass to within a millimetre of the tip .
358 Dr. J. W. Capstick .
The parts of the apparatus were sealed together without glass y or india-rubber connections .
The difference of potential to be observed is that betweerff and K when the current is passing between G and K. There is of need for accurate adjustment of the distance between H and K in the dark space the potential gradient is very slight for tw or three centimetres , so that all that is required is that the endf H should be outside the negative glow .
In the present experime 's it was about a centimetre from the end of the kathode .
In the earlier experiments the difference of potential was measai by a bifilar quadrant electrometer , whose constant was determined^ means of a battery of Clark cells .
In the later experiments a Keln multicellular voltmeter was used .
The current through the discharge tube was supplied from storage cells , a lead pencil line of variable length , drawn on a sla being included in the circuit , to vary the current strength .
The current is not always continuous , but sometimes consists of rapid succession of discharges , and when this is the case the observe kathode fall is not generally constant .
Hence a telephone v , inserted in the circuit to show when the current was continuot With the elementary gases the telephone was generally silent , h with the compound gases the humming was so persistent as to cor near wrecking the work .
Hydrogen .
Warburg found the kathode fall in hydrogen to I t 300 volts , but it seemed desirable to repeat the experiments , in ord* to find the degree of concordance that can be obtained by differei observers .
The gas was obtained from palladium that had been saturate with hydrogen prepared by the electrolysis of dilute sulphuric aci\#171 ; It was purified by solid potash and phosphoric anhydride , and tb discharge tube contained a piece of sodium , to destroy the last tract of moisture .
The apparatus was repeatedly exhausted , heated , an refilled with hydrogen , whilst the electrodes were kept red hot by t strong current , to expel occluded gases .
The strength of the current was not measured during the experi ments , but it was varied by altering the resistance in the circuit , s\lt ; as to cover a varying length of the kathode with the negative glow , and so to show whether the tube was large enough to allow the difi ' charge to pass without hindrance .
The table below gives details o. the measurements .
The first column gives the pressure of the gas in millimetres of mer-cury\#187 ; the second gives the fraction of the kathode that was covered with the glow , and the third gives the kathode fall in volts .
On the Kathode Fall of Potential Gases , p. Glow .
E. 6 ' \ 298 Apparatus exhausted and refilled .
5 S 304 Apparatus exhausted and refilled .
2 \#163 ; 298 2 i 296 2 | '298 More gas admitted without exhausting .
4 ' \#166 ; \#163 ; 297 4 l 296 The mean result is 298 volts , which agrees so closely with the lUe 300 found by Warburg , that no further experiments were rde .
Oxygen.\#151 ; The gas was made by heating permanganate of potash , 1 passed through a set of Geissler bulbs of sulphuric acid and over j nps of potash and phosphoric anhydride before reaching the dis- , irge tube .
The permanganate was twice recrystallised , dried , and iited till it fell to a fine powder , before being introduced into the maratus , in order to ensure the absence of moisture , and so diminish 13 risk of formation of volatile manganese compounds .
The degree of purity of the gas was tested by the spectrum of the ocharge , and it proved a difficult matter to get rid of the nitrogen , r ' repeatedly exhausting and filling the apparatus with oxygen die the glass was kept hot , the nitrogen lines were rendered very int , but they were not entirely l-emoved even after continuing the lie rations for a fortnight .
The hydrogen lines soon disappeared tirely , but the nitrogen lines were always faiptly visible when the Trent was strong enough to make the kathode red hot .
As , bower , a very small amount of nitrogen is sufficient to make the mtro-\gt ; n lines far brighter than the oxygen lines , the quantity of nitrogen 'esent must have been extremely small .
In the observations recorded below- , from two to six readings wi i ifferent current strengths were taken at each pressure .
The mean isult is given for each .
set .
p- E 11 370 7 371 4 363 21 370 H 373 Mean , 369 The tube was then heated , exhausted , and refilled several times , md a similar set of readings taken .
VOTj .
LX1IT .
Dr. J. W. Capstick .
P ' 373 Mean , 370 The mean of the whole is 870 volts .
Nitrogen .
Warburg 's determination of the kathode fall inthha ; was made on atmospheric nitrogen containing argon , and hem it was necessary to repeat the observations on chemically prefect nitrogen .
r r In the first experiments the gas was prepared by heating ammoim , bichromate .
If the bichromate is mixed with fine sand the decn-position is easily controlled , but the gas is impure , and musfce passed over ignited copper and copper oxide , which involves he use of hard glass and india-rubber connections .
The joints were carefully made with thick-walled soft rubber tube , yet the obseii at o e fall , 355 volts , was the same as in air , and nearly the samis in oxygen , and very much higher than what later experiments sherd was the true value for nitrogen .
The result is interesting , as show ?
the great effect of a small quantity of oxygen in the nitrogen , \gt ; d emphasises the necessity for scrupulous care in removing traced impurity .
The final experiments were made on gas prepared by the decc* position of ammonium nitrite .
A solution of pure ammoni* chloride was contained in a flask from the neck of which a tub* yard long passed downwards into a mercury reservoir .
When !
\#187 ; flask was exhausted along with the rest of the apparatus , potassi1 nitrite solution could be sucked in as required by pouring a little 1 the top of the mercury , and lowering the reservoir .
At low pressuH the mixture^ of ammonium chloride and potassium nitrite does i require heating , as the nitrogen comes off regularly and very slov at the temperature of the room .
The gas was passed over solid potash and phosphoric anhydric and a piece of sodium was placed in the discharge tube .
In some of the experiments bichromate of potash was also adds to oxidise to nitric acid any oxides of nitrogen that might I formed .
The addition made the evolution of gas inconvenient lapid , and the flask had to be kept cool by a water bath , \#174 ; On the Kathode Fall of Potential Gases .
3(51 .Mrence between the measurements before and after the addition very small .
is not necessary to give a detailed list of all the observations i : were made .
It will be sufficient to say that before the bichromate added twenty-five observations were made , the mean value found .1 he kathode fall was 231 volts , the extreme values being 223 and i After the addition of the bichromate twenty measurements made , the mean value being 233 and the range 223 to 238 .
mean of the whole is 232 .
lis is exactly the same as Warburg found for atmospheric \gt ; gen , whence it appears that the presence of argon has no effect ie kathode fall .
at ; erVapour.\#151 ; Distilled water from a clean silver still was d to remove dissolved gases , and the apparatus was sealed up st the water was still at the boiling temperature , le greater part of the air was removed from the apparatus by ) as of the pump , which contained some sulphuric acid above the oury , and the whole was then allowed to stand for a week , the absorbing the vapour and keeping up a steady evaporation of ; water , thus gradually sweeping out any remaining air .
The un-lensed gas was ejected from the pump , and the acid renewed i time to time .
Incondensable gas never entirely ceased to pass v , but before any experiments were made it appeared from an .
nate of the volume of water absorbed by the acid and the volume be air bubble in the pump , that the ratio of the pressure of the to the pressure of water vapour in the apparatus was reduced to it one part in five millions .
Of course , more gas came over when discharge was passing , but even then the .quantity was very 11 .
Presumably the hydrogen and oxygen set free near the Drodes recombine at other parts of the tube , compound gas naturally presents difficulties that are absent in case of an elementary gas , for as soon as the current is started | gas becomes mixed with decomposition products , and is no longer The chief difficulty , however , arose from the intermittence of current .
With elementary gases the current was seldom interment , with the compound gases it was seldom constant .
It was , ourse , useless to take any readings of the kathode fall when the phone was singing , and many ( months were spent in a fruitless ' mpt to find what circumstances determine the constancy or inter-'tence of the current .
he rate of intermittence was not usually constant , as was evident n the variation in the note given by the telephone , and the age from sound to silence was sudden , and often accompanied by er changes , such as the appearance of striae in the tube , and a den change in the kathode fall .
When the telephone was silent Dr. J. W. Capstick .
it could always in the case of the compound gases be made to sin^v a sufficient increase in the current , but a reduction of the curnt density by the use of electrodes half an inch in diameter made i 10 easier to obtain a constant current .
The method by which it was hoped that errors due to the decu .
position of the gas would be got rid of was to start the current , *d when by accident as it proved rather than by design , the teleph ; e was silent , to open the mercury trap and allow a stream of pure , s to play on the electrodes , whilst the reading of the electrometer \s taken .
It was not often that this could be carried out , for win after repeated attempts the telephone was silenced , the usual res f of admitting fresh gas was either to make the current intermitt r or to stop it altogether .
The proceeding was carried out successfully only twice .
In fe first experiment the current was steady as soon as the circuit w closed .
The negative glow covered half the kathode and te kathode fall was 471 volts , but quickly rose to 484 as decomposite proceeded .
A little vapour was then admitted , and the fall potential at once sank to 467 but soon rose again to 482 when b stream of gas ceased .
More vapour was then admitted wherenp the kathode fall sank to 469 , and in half a minute rose ags to 478 .
The second experiment was less satisfactory as only a single read !
was obtained .
After the current had been running for a few minui the telephone became silent , the negative glow consisting of a brig tip covering about a tenth of the kathode and the kathode fall bei : 484 .
On admitting more vapour it sank to 469 , but before it hi risen more than a few volts the telephone began singing again , ai could not be made to stop .
Thus we have four observations of the kathode fall in tl undecomposed gas , namely : 471,467,469 , and 469 , the mean being 46 In both experiments the pressure of the vapour was about 2 mm Ammonia.\#151 ; The gas was prepared by the action of soda t ammonium sulphate that had been treated with nitric acid in tl .
ordinary way to remove organic substances .
The ammonia w* dried with lime and absorbed in calcium chloride contained in a bul sealed to the apparatus .
Here , as with water vapour , the numerous attempts to secure ; constant current met with little success .
Only two readings of th\gt ; j. kathode fall were obtained , and these were not very concordant , h the first experiment the current had been running for half an horn when the intermittence ceased , and the kathode fall in the partial !
; decomposed gas was 510 volts .
When a stream of pure ammonia allowed to play on the kathode , the reading of the electrometer rose to 595 , where it remained steady until , after a few seconds , the dis* On the Kathode Fall o Potential Gases .
.rge stopped .
In the second experiment the current had been .miner for some time through gas at a low pressure , the kathode h being 440 volts .
A stream of pure gas sent it up to 570 , but the rophone soon began singing , and the kathode fall sank rapidly \lt ; 480 .
The mean of the two observations is 582 volts .
Citric Oxide.\#151 ; A mixture of nitre and ferrous sulphate was acted by dilute sulphuric acid , and the evolved gas washed with potash ition and sulphuric acid , and absorbed in a saturated solution of rous sulphate .
This solution was contained in a flask , sealed to .
rest of the apparatus .
The gas was given off readily without .rming when the pressure was sufficiently reduced , and was iused over potash and phosphoric anhydride before reaching the charge tube .
n the case of water vapour and ammonia , when the current was continuous the observed kathode fall was very variable and not dependent of the current strength , but with nitric oxide the Y'iation was within narrow limits , the readings always lying ween 340 and 380 volts , whether the telephone was silent or not , 1 whatever the current strength , provided the kathode was not :rered with the negative glow .
The readings of the kathode fall and the appearance of the dis .
irge showed that the gas is rapidly decomposed by the current , uen the discharge first started , the kathode fall was always near ) volts , and the glow at both anode and kathode was white .
.In .
ew seconds the glow round the kathode began to grow blue , and it round the anode turned pink , whilst the kathode fall slowly sank about 345 volts .
Meanwhile the glow spread backwards along .\gt ; kathode , showing an increase of current , and hence a decrease in i resistance of the gas .
The decomposition proceeded so rapidly that it was impossible to t the kathode fall for the pure gas by taking the reading whilst a .
earn of gas played on the electrodes , for the strength of stream eessary to maintain the white " glow of the pure gas was so great it the pressure immediately rose high enough to stop the dis-arge .
Hence the only feasible plan was to allow the gas to \#166 ; earn through the tube long enough to sweep out the products of composition , then stop the stream by closing the mercury trap , mp down to a suitable pressure , start the discharge , and take a iding as quickly as possible .
Twelve readings were taken in this way , when the telephone was her silent throughout or became silent a few seconds after the rrent started .
There was never any change in the kathede fall at e moment when the current became constant .
The xrnadings ried between 366 and 378 , the mean value being 373 .
This is so nearly the value for oxygen as to suggest a doubt of its 2 d 2 364 On the Kathode Fall of Potential in Gases .
accuracy .
The earlier experiments on nitrogen showed that slight trace of oxygen was sufficient to raise the kathode falhon , its true value 232 to 355 .
In fact , the values for oxygen , Mo oxide , air , and nitrogen with a trace of oxygen , are all nearltbp same , which makes it not improbable that in each case the oien alone acts as the carrier of the current .
We have , then , finally the following values for the kathode fa\#151 ; Hydrogen ... ... ... ... . .
298 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... . .
232 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... 369 Water vapour ... ... .
469 Ammonia ... ... ... ... ... .
582 ( Nitric oxide ... ... ... . .
373 ) The last is enclosed in brackets in consequence of the doubts s io its accuracy .
If we leave the result for this last gas out of accoat , it appears that the kathode fall is approximately an additive qw* tity .
Ascribing the values 149 , 116 , and 184 respectively to he atoms of hydrogen , nitrogen , and oxygen , we get , by addition,32 for water vapour and 563 for ammonia .
As each of those depute on thiee measurements , they may be taken as agreeing withie observed values within the limits of experimental error .
Henc\lt ; so far as the evidence of these experiments goes , the kathode fall a property of the atoms rather than of the molecule .
As the kathode fall is constant for all pressures and cur \#171 ; ts whilst the potential gradient along the rest of the tube is variae , we may infer that no potential difference less than the kathode S is capable of causing a discharge through the gas .
This conclusn is consistent with the experiments of Mr. Peace , * who found that e minimum difference of potential that gives a discharge in air ' something over 300 volts .
Assuming that the conduction is electrolytic , it seems likely , fm the analogy of the electrolysis of liquids , that the kathode fall nv prove to be a measure of the energy required to dissociate the into the ions that carry the electricity , and the present experimete were undertaken in the hope of finding some confirmation of tH hypothesis .
They have not , however , provided the kind of evidef that was anticipated .
The results can only be reconciled with t hypothesis if further assumptions are made that would put the c\lt ; * duction in gases on a very different footing from the electroly ' conduction of liquids .
The additive nature of the kathode \#163 ; might , for instance , be taken as an indication that the carriers of t current are provided by the disintegration of the atoms into * ' -Roy .
Soc. Proe./ vol. 52 , p. 99 .
grfrodynamic Equations of a Moving Material Medium , fyc .
365 nller particles , as has already been suggested by J. J. Thomson ri entirely different evidence ; but the results are too few to make , \#187 ; her speculation on their meaning of much value .
f0te on the Complete Scheme of Electrodynamic Equations of a Moving Material Medium , and on Electrostriction .
" By Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Received May 17 , \#151 ; Read May 26 , 1898 .
his note forms a supplement to my third memoir on the " Dynamic Theory of the iEther , " * to the sections of which the references u made . .
It is intended in the first place to express with full generality sl electrodynamie equations of a rfiaterial medium moving in any aoner , thus completing the scheme which has been already devel0 d subject to simplifying restrictions in the memoirs referred to .
1 obtain a definite and consistent theoretical basis it was necessary tcontemplate the material system as made up of discrete molecules , iiolving in their constitutions orbital systems of electrons , and ating through the practically stagnant aether .
It is unnecessary , the mere development of the equations , to form any notion of Mr such translation across the aether can be intelligibly conceived : sh , inasmuch as its strangeness , when viewed in the light of motion 0 bodies through a material medium and the disturbance of the tdium thereby produced , has often led to a feeling of its impossib1 iy , and to an attitude of agnosticism with reference to ethereal cistitution , it seems desirable that a kinematic* scheme such as was ' re explained , depending on the conception of a rotationally elastic uaer , should have a place in the foundations of aether-theory .
Any Uitation , resting on d priori scruples , in accepting as a working bus such a rotational scheme , seems to be no more warranted than vuld be a diffidence in assuming the atmosphere to be a continuous \#171 ; stic medium in treating of the theory of sound .
It is known that i i$ origin , of tlio elasticity of the atmosphere is something w o y 'ierent from the primitive notion of statical spring , being in fact bte abrupt collisions of molecules : in the same way the rotational ( ality of the incompressible tether , which forms a sufficient picture * its effective constitution , may have its origin in something more hdamental that has not yet even been conceived .
But in eac \lt ; 3e what is important for immediate practical purposes is a con \lt ; nsed and definite basis from which to develop the interlacing unifications of a physical scheme : and in each case this is obtained r the use of a representation which a deeper knowledge may after-* i Phil. Trans./ A ( 1897 ) .

