88 A Method of Depositing Copper upon Glass from Aqueous Solutions in a Thin Brilliantly Reflecting , and thus producing a Copper Mirror .
By F. I ) .
Chattaway , F.E.S. ( Received September 26 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1907 .
) Many organic substances which undergo oxidation easily are able to reduce various metallic oxides .
The oxygen is removed with very different degrees of readiness and the property is in consequence often used as a means of recognising particular compounds or atomic groupings .
Silver oxide is especially easily reduced , and if it is dissolved in an aqueous solution of ammonia the metal , by an appropriate agent , as Liebig first observed , * may be obtained attached to the glass walls of the containing vessel as a brilliant reflecting film .
This observation has received an important industrial application in the manufacture of mirrors , and silver thus deposited has now practically replaced the tin amalgam formerly used , which so often seriously affected the health of the workers .
With the view of improving the processes originally used , many chemists have studied the conditions under which glass is coated with silver , but their investigations have generally had for their object the preparation of a liquid which wrould deposit a uniform and coherent layer of the metal over a large glass surface at the ordinary temperature .
Liebigj* was the first to solve the problem satisfactorily and his method , in which milk sugar is the reducing agent , was formerly extensively used .
Other metals are not so easily laid down upon glass in a firm reflecting film as is silver ; and in particular copper , which is so closely related to it , is not in similar circumstances so deposited .
Metallic copper has been attached to glass in various ways .
Faradayabout the time when silver mirrors were attracting much attention , made the interesting observation that a mirror-like deposit of the metal upon glass having the proper metallic lustre and colour by reflection , could be obtained by dissolving a little oxide of copper in olive oil and heating plates of glass in a bath of this liquid up to the decomposing temperature of the oil .
Mirrors , however , obtained by Faraday 's method , if of any size , are liable to be stained and discoloured in patches by * 'Annalen , ' 1835 , vol. 14 , p. 133 .
t ' Annalen , ' 1856 , vol. 98 , p. 132 .
j ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1857 , p. 145 .
A Method of Depositing Copper upon Glass , etc. 89 decomposition products of the oil and they are , moreover , generally lacking in brilliancy .
Further , as the deposition of the metal only takes place at a temperature above that at which the oil decomposes , the process is excessively disagreeable to carry out and , as the oil is spoiled , it is somewhat costly .
Faraday also discovered* that a fine deposit of copper upon glass could be produced by deflagrating the metal in the neighbourhood of the glass by a Leyden battery in an atmosphere of hydrogen , and Wright , employing a method essentially the same , f obtained small brilliant mirrors of copper on the inner surface of exhausted glass tubes by passing through them an electric discharge between copper electrodes .
Everyone who has reduced Fehling 's solution with excess of grape sugar must have noticed that occasionally the metal produced adheres to the sides of the beaker or flask in somewhat reflecting patches , and much brighter patches are obtained when certain copper salts such as formate or acetate are heated in glass vessels .
The firm of Weisskopf , in Morchenstein , has further succeeded in depositing copper upon glass by reducing the hydroxide in presence of zinc chloride together with gold or platinum chloride by a somewhat complicated liquid mixture containing cane sugar , glycerine , and formaldehyde .
These facts lead to the conclusion that copper should be capable of deposition in the same way as silver , if a suitable reducing agent were forthcoming ; this I have recently found in phenylhydrazine .
Phenylhydrazine , as I have elsewhere shown , J especially in presence of caustic potash , which greatly accelerates the action , is easily oxidised by free oxygen , there being produced in all likelihood hydroxyphenylhydrazine , which immediately breaks down into a molecule of benzene , a molecule of nitrogen , and a molecule of water thus:\#151 ; C6H5\#151 ; X\#151 ; H C6H5\#151 ; 1ST\#151 ; H l+o= !
= c6h6+x2+h2o .
H\#151 ; X\#151 ; H H\#151 ; X\#151 ; OH Copper oxide acts similarly upon the base , and under suitable conditions the metal can be deposited upon glass in the form of a fine mirror .
The operation may be carried out in a variety of ways , using finely divided black copper oxide suspended in a boiling saturated solution of phenylhydrazine or a liquid made by mixing the latter with a solution of copper hydroxide in alkaline tartrates or ammonia .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' 185V , p. 154 .
t Silliman , ' Amer .
Journ. , ' 1877 , [ 3 ] , vol. 13 , p. 49 .
X 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1907 .
Dr. F. D. Chattaway .
[ Sept. 26 , The following procedure , which resembles that employed in silvering glass , gives a uniformly excellent result .
Heat a mixture of one part of freshly distilled phenylhydrazine and two parts of water till a clear solution is obtained .
To this add about half its bulk of a warm saturated solution of cupric hydroxide in strong ammonia .
Nitrogen is freely evolved during the addition , and the cupric is reduced to cuprous hydroxide , which remains dissolved in the ammoniacal liquid , and does not undergo any immediate appreciable further reduction until heated .
Add next a hot 10-per-cent , solution of potassium hydroxide until a slight permanent precipitate of cuprous hydroxide is produced .
If this colourless or pale yellow liquid be cautiously heated in contact with a perfectly clean glass surface , metallic copper is deposited upon it in the form of a thin , coherent , perfectly reflecting lamina .
As nitrogen is evolved during the reduction , and as tarry bye-products are formed in small quantity and float with the benzene produced to the surface of the liquid , if flasks or tubes are to be coppered , devices have to be adopted to keep the inner surface completely covered by the liquid from which the metal is being deposited , whilst allowing the gas to escape .
If the glass in any part is not perfectly coated , the process may be repeated , but a uniform deposit is seldom obtained unless the whole surface is covered in one operation .
To obtain a film of sufficient thickness to be permanent , and to prevent its superficial oxidation , it is best to allow it to remain for an hour or so in contact with the warm reducing fluid , and not to pour this off till it has cooled to the temperature of the air .
The surface of the deposited copper should then be well washed , first with water and afterwards with alcohol and ether , and finally should be protected from the slow oxidising action of the air by one or two coats of some quickdrying varnish .
Very little of the phenylhydrazine is actually used up in the reduction , and the same fluid may be employed again and again after filtering while warm through cotton wool and mixing with more solution of copper hydroxide , adding fresh phenylhydrazine when necessary to compensate for the dilution .
If required for future use , the liquid must bo kept in a stoppered bottle carefully protected from the air , as free oxygen is very readily absorbed by it and the phenylhydrazine thereby destroyed .
The mirrors obtained by this method are very beautiful , for they show the pleasing red colour of copper and are as perfect in reflecting surface and as lustrous as the similar mirrors obtained by the deposition of silver .
To carry out the operation successfully , it is essential to cleanse very thoroughly the surface of the glass ; this is best done by well rubbing in turn 1907 .
] A Method of Depositing Copper upon Glass , .
with a strong solution of soap , with strong nitric acid , and with strong caustic potash , using a pad of cotton wool soaked in these liquids , and washing well between the successive operations .
Surfaces of blown glass are more readily coated with copper than polished surfaces .
In any case old glass should not be used , at least without the surface being carefully repolished .
Ammonia in excess hinders the deposition of copper , as it does that of silver , while caustic alkali accelerates it .
It is interesting to note that the copper is in the monvalent or cuprous state , in which it is analogous to silver , when it shows a similar tendency to be deposited in a metallic film upon glass .
Little is known as to the reasons why , when metallic oxides are reduced in aqueous solutions , the metals under certain conditions are deposited upon glass in a thin , reflecting lamina , while under others , apparently equally favourable to such deposition , they separate in a spongy or flocculent state .
Vogel* concludes from his experiments with silver oxide that when complete reduction takes place in one stage , a mirror or crystalline deposit is obtained , whilst granular or finely divided silver is produced in two stages , a lower insoluble oxide separating as the primary product of the reduction and being afterwards itself further reduced .
The behaviour of copper oxide on reduction makes it , however , very improbable that the various stages of the process affect the result .
For the production of a mirror it appears rather to be essential that the compound undergoing reduction shall be in solution and that its concentration shall be small , that the liquid in which it takes place shall be alkaline , and that action shall be more rapid at the surface of the glass than elsewhere .
It is certain that the nature of the surface on which the metal is deposited plays an important part in the process , since both silver and copper are deposited much better upon blown than upon polished glass and upon surfaces which have not for long been exposed to the action of the air or of water .
It seems probable that the glass surface itself acts as a catalyser and locally accelerates the action .
Oberbeck , some years ago , f measured the electric resistances of a number of silver films deposited upon glass from aqueous solution .
He made the interesting discovery that such resistances , although very large immediately after the metal had been deposited , continually diminished with time , and although a minimum was not reached in two years , ultimately approximated to the resistances which would have been shown by films of * ' Journ. fur praktische Chemie , ' 1862 , vol. 86 , p. 321 .
t ' Ann. der Physik und Cliemie , ' 1892 , p. 282 .
92 Messrs. F. Soddy and T. D. Mackenzie .
[ Oct. 8 , ordinary silver of corresponding thickness and size .
The films during this change of resistance altered neither in reflecting power nor in appearance when viewed by transmitted light .
As reflecting silver films of very different thickness and initial resistance and produced under very different conditions all showed this great increase in conductivity , Oberbeck concluded that when silver is first deposited from aqueous solution in the form of a mirror , it is in a different molecular condition from ordinary silver , but that in time its state approaches that of the latter more and more .
The Electric Discharge Monatomic Gases .
By Frederick Soddy , M.A. , Lecturer in Physical Chemistry in the University of Glasgow , and Thomas D. Mackenzie , B.Sc. , Carnegie Research Scholar .
( Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received October 8 , \#151 ; Read November 7 , 1907 .
) 1 .
Scope of the Enquiry .
In a recent paper* one of us has described the use of metallic calcium at .
high temperature for the production of high vacua , and in spectroscopic work as a very perfect chemical absorbent of all except the chemically inert gases .
It was shown that helium and argon purified by calcium from traces of common gases or vapours , with which they are in practice invariably contaminated during manipulation , showed a great disinclination to conduct the discharge .
In ordinary spectrum-tubes , helium offered a resistance equivalent to an alternative spark-gap of an inch in air , at a pressure of ( H)5 mm. , and argon at 0-02 mm. of mercury .
This behaviour of the monatomic gases , together with the closely-allied phenomenon shown by spectrum-tubes filled with these gases of becoming non-conducting , or " running out , " under the action of the discharge , have now been investigated in detail .
A great number of experiments have been performed and a short summary will be given in the present paper .
The main object was to settle whether electric conduction in the monatomic gases is essentially different from that in other gases .
The first results raised at least a presumption that perfectly pure helium might * ' Koy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1907 , A , vol. 78 , p. 429 .

