288 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
Researches on the , [ June 21 XV .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 4 .
On the Gomphodontia .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The Gomphodontia is a group of Anomodont reptiles characterised by theriodont dentition , in which the molar teeth are expanded transversely , more or less tuberculate , and have the crowns worn down with use , as in ungulate and other mammals .
The orbit of the eye is distinct from the zygomatic vacuity , which is conditioned as in the Cynodontia , there being a long narrow parietal crest dividing the temporal vacuities .
There are two well-defined occipital condyles united at the base , in a way that is closely paralleled in some mammals .
The occipital plate is triangular , as in mammals , with no perforation except the foramen magnum .
A deep superior notch defines the occipital plate from the lateral external squamosal bar .
The malar bone , which forms the larger part of the zygoma , behind the orbit , has a slight descending process which varies in development .
The hard palate terminates transversely in the middle length of the molar teeth .
There is a descending transverse palatine arch situate behind the orbits .
The incisor teeth are small and pointed ; the canine teeth may be inconspicuous , but are usually large , compressed , and serrated ; the premolars are small , circular , and usually tuberculate ; the molars are usually single-rooted , in close-set series which diverge as they extend backward , with crowns which vary in form , but are commonly wider than long , and usually have the external and internal cusps more prominent than the other tubercles on the crown .
The group is based chiefly upon the genera known from skulls , a vertebra , and fragments of limb bones ; Triracliodon , known from skulls only ; and Micro in which the canine teeth are no larger than the incisors .
The last genus appears to make known the more important parts of the skeleton .
These specimens , collected by the author at Lady Frere , by Dr. Kannemeyer , near Burghersdorp , and by Mr. Alfred Bi'own , near Aliwal North , are all from the Upper Karroo rocks , on or about the horizon of the Coal Beds .
Of Gomphognathus there is a complete skull , with the lower jaw attached , about 9 ins .
long , a second skull which displays the palate , and a separate lowrer jaw in connexion with part of the back of the skull .
These specimens show four incisor teeth in each premaxillary bone , with sharp lateral serrated borders .
The mandibular canine is covered when the jaws are closed .
The maxillary canine is a 1894 .
] Organisation , and Classification of Fossil 28 powerful tooth : its extremity is worn obliquely .
There appear to be six premolar teeth , all contained in a length of half an inch .
The maxillary teeth are packed in close succession , as in Rodents .
There are nine molar teeth .
In the middle , where they are largest , four occupy the length of 1 in .
The contour of the crowns of these molars is convex from front to back , as in many mammals ; and in this genus they are all behind the hard palate .
The external cusp is prominent , and a ridge descends inward and backward from it upon the large flattened ledge of the crown , which is worn almost level , as though there were a rodent-like horizontal movement of the lower jaw .
A lumbar vertebra , found in developing the back of a skull , may possibly belong to this genus .
With the skulls a right humerus was found , which is 5| ins .
long .
It shows the reptilian transverse elongation of the proximal articulation , combined with characters which are paralleled in the marsupial mammals and Carnivora .
The genus Microgomphodon is known in the first place from a skull ins .
long , shaped much as in Galesabut distinguished by the comparatively large size of the front pair of mandibular incisors , and the strong , conical , pointed character of the incisor teeth .
The canine teeth are not differentiated from the incisors .
The molars show in lateral aspect small blunt cones ; but on their palatal aspect have flattened crowns with many small cusps .
All the teeth have short roots .
There are three incisors on each side in both the mandible and skull , one canine , and five molars .
There is ground for associating with this genus an imperfect skeleton , which , in addition to indicating ten early dorsal ribs , and fourteen lower dorsal vertebrae and ribs in advance of the acetabulum of the femur , shows the left humerus , portions of right and left scapulae , portions of the coracoid , clavicle , interclavicle , the pelvic bones , all the bones of the hind limb , distal ends of ulna and radius , carpus , metacarpus , and five digits .
With these a fragment of a skull is associated , which has the maxillary and mandibular teeth in contact , showing the animal to be Gomphodont ; while so much as is preserved closely resembles the skull of , and apparently the canine was not larger than the premolar .
This skeleton demonstrates a close general resemblance of plan between the Gomphodontia and Cynodontia .
The lower dorsal ribs have a transverse lozenge-shaped enlargement , which , however , is less developed than in Cynognathus .
The pelvis is exposed on the ventral side .
As in most , if not all , South African Therosuchia , it shows no indication of median division between the pubic bones , while the ischia retain their individuality .
The pubis articulated to a short tubercle on the ilium .
The blade of 290 Frol .
H. G. Seeley .
Researches on , [ June 21 .
the ilium is thin , hut imperfectly exposed ; and the ischia are shaped as in Pliosaurus , but the pubis does not closely resemble that of any reptile .
The femur has the inferior internal trochanteric ridge only slightly developed .
There is no neck defining the head of the bone from the shaft .
The fibula is slender ; no indication of a patella is preserved .
Below the stout tibia , the proximal row of the tarsus appears to consist of two bones , an inner astragalus with hemispherical proximal surface , and a narrow elongated bone which appears to be the calcaneum .
There were three or four bones in the distal row of the tarsus , but only one is preserved .
The digits are nearly parallel with each other , and the foot has a compact character like that of Dicyncdon .
The scapulae have the pre-scapula developed on the same plan as in Cynognathus , and the anterior margin of the bone reflected upward , so as to form the spine of the scapula , terminating in the acromion .
The two ends of the humerus are twisted at an angle of 45 degrees , and the bone is expanded as in many Saurischian reptiles .
The carpus shows three bones in the proximal row , a large reniform carpal below the ulna , regained as the pisiform bone ; a comparatively small middle carpal is identified as the cuneiform bone .
The third bone corresponds with the scapho-lunar of Theriodesmus ; it is beneath the radius .
There is no indication of any pre-pollex .
There are four bones in the distal row of the car-pus .
There are five digits .
In the pelvis and the limb bones this Anomodont type approximates to the Saurischia and Mammalia , just as the Ornithischia approximate to birds in the same parts of the skeleton .
Triracliodon is founded on four individuals which have the skull about 4 ins .
long .
Like the other Gomphodont genera , this type has the dentary bone developed so as to occupy the length of the mandible , but the lower jaw is composite , the internal bones filling the space which in mammals is occupied by the meekelian cartilage .
The post-frontal and pre-frontal bones are well developed .
The species differ in the character of the teeth , especially in number and form of the pre-molars .
In one species from Aliwal North , the molar teeth are transversely wide , ornamented with three transverse ridges , which terminate in a slight cusp , both on the external and internal margins .
There are not more than nine molars .
The crown of the first pre-molar in one specimen is elongated from front to back , and shows a small coronet of rounded marginal cusps .
In a species from Lady Frere the molar teeth are narrower , and the pre-molar teeth more numerous , small , and circular in the broken sections .
Although these skulls are mammalian in aspect , and in some respects make new transitions towards mammals , in technical characters they retain a sufficient number of reptilian structures to 1894 .
] Organisation , and Classification of Fossil 291 permit no doubt that they are true reptiles .
The mammalian resemblances in the skull being paralleled in the other parts of the skeleton , it may be affirmed that these fossils demonstrate a closer affinity between reptiles and mammals than had previously been evident .
XVI .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 5 .
On new Cynodontia .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received February 13 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The Cynodontia is a division of the Theriodontia in which there are long and large temporal vacuities in the skull , formed chiefly by the squamosal and malar bones ; in which there is no descending pedicle to the squamosal bone ; in which the occipital condyle is crescentic and imperfectly divided into two lateral parts ; and in which the hinder molar teeth , larger than the incisor teeth , develop anterior and posterior cusps , are compressed from side to side , and overlap , with shearlike action , the teeth of the mandible .
The principal new genera included in this group are which is known from several skulls , and one fairly complete skeleton ; and the genus Tribolodon , which does not differ in a striking way from the small Cynodonts previously known , referred to the genera Galesanrus , Nythosaurus , and Thrinaxodon .
The skeleton of Cynognathus crateronotus was found at Lady i'rere , near Queenstown .
A single tooth of this genus had already been obtained by Mr. Alfred Brown at Aliwml North .
The skull is between 15 and 16 in .
long , 8 in .
high at the orbits , and higher at the occiput , where it was about 9 in .
wide .
The lateral aspect is remarkably Mammalian , owing to the great development of the dentary bone , which forms a new type of lower jaw , and has a greatly developed coronoid process , and the form of the zygoma .
On the palate , the palatine and transverse bones form a descending arch between the rami of the mandible , as in Crocodiles , and Lizards .
The composite structure of the lower jaw is seen on its inner side .
The pre-frontal and post-frontal bones remain distinct .
There is a small quadrate bone embedded in the large squamosal bone .
The latter resembles that of Mammals , both in its extension along the zygoma , and its expansion as a squamous plate on the side of the brain case .
There are four incisors in each pre-maxillary ; their margins are serrated .
There appear to be but three mandibular incisors on each side , so that the type resembles Gynocha but there is no evidence

