]\gt ; May 30 , 1895 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of notice sent to the Fellows , an election was held to fill the vacancy upon the Council occasioned by the retirement of Professor A. H. Green .
The Statntes relating to the election of the Council and the Statute elating to the election of a Member of Council upon the rence of vacancy were read , and Dr. Armstrong and Mr. R. H. Scott having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , the vobes of the Fellows present were taken and the Rev. Thomas George Bonney was declared ] elected .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. On the Temperature Variation of the Thermal Conductivity of Rocks By LORD KELVIN , P.R.S. , and J. R. ERSKINE MURRAY , B.Sc. , Scholar .
Received May 24 , 1895 .
S 1 .
The experiments described in this communication were undertaken for the purpose of .
temperatnre variation of thet'mal conductivity of some of the more of the earth 's crust .
S2 .
The method we adopted was to measure , by aid of fhermoelectric junctions , the temperatures at different points of a flux in a solid , kep6 heated by sources ( positive and negative ) applied to its Stlx.face , and maintained uniform for a sufficiently time to cause the to be as nearly constant at eve1y point as we could arrange for .
The shape of the solid the thel'malsoUl'ces were arranged to cause the flux lines to be , as nearly possible , parallel straighl lines ; so that , according to 's Iementary theory and definition of thermal ity , we should where denote three points in a ] ( respectively next the top , at the middle , and next to the bottom in the slabs and which we used ) ; , denote the steady temiation of ' ltocks .
lreq at points ; and , , the mean conductivities ) etweenT and , and between and respectively .
S 3 .
The roc expet.imenfed on in each case sisted of two equal and similar pieces , with simj .
faces together .
In one of these faces straight parallel grooves are cu } , just deep to allow the thermoelectric wires and junctions to embedded in them , and no wider than to admit the wires and junction , ( see dia , ram , S 8 below ) .
Thus , when the two pieces of rock are ssed together , and when leat is so applied that the flux lines to of the two parts , we had the same result , so ns thermal conduction is concerned , as if we bad taken a single slab of the same size as the , with long fine perforations to receive th junctions .
The compound slab was placed with the perforations horizontal , and their vertical .
Its lower side , when thus placed , was immersed unde a bath of tin , ) melted by a below it .
Its upper side was flooded over with mercury our later Pxperimell ts ( SS 6 , 7 , 8 ) , as in Hopkins ' experimonts conductivity of rock .
Heat was carried off from the mercury by a measured quantif , of cold water poured upon it once minute , allowed to till the end of a minute , and then drawn off ' and diately replaced by another equal quantity of cold water .
The chief difficulty in respect to sbeadiness of temperature the keeping of the gas lamp below the bath of melted tin uniform .
If more experiments are to be made on the same plan , whether for rocks or metals , or other solids , it will , no doubt , be aclvisable to use an automatic.ulated gas flame , keeping the temperature of the hot bath in which the lower face of the slab or column is immersed at as nearly constant a temperature as possible , and to arran ge for a perfeetly steady flow of cold water to carry away heat from the upper surface of the mercury on the upper side of the slab or column .
It be advisable to avoid the complication of having the slab column in two parts , when the material and the dimensions of the solid fine perforations to be hored through it , instead of the grooves we found more readily made with the appliances avail to us .
S 4 .
Our first experiments were made on a slate slab , cm .
square cm .
thick , in two halves , pressed together , each 25 cm .
by and 5 cm .
thick .
One of these parts cracked with a loud noise an early experiment , with lower face of the composik on an plate heated by a powerful gas burner , and the upper face kept cool by ice in a metal ssel resting upon it .
rjjhe int indicated , very decidedly , less conductivity in tb hokte part below the middle than the cooler part above the middle of the square slab .
We supposed this might possibly be due to crack , which we found to be horizontal and below th 164 Lord Kelvin and .
J. R. Erskine .
[ May 30 .
and to be complete across the whole area of cm .
by 5 , across which the heat lvas condncted in that part of the composite slab ; and give rise to imperfect fitting together of the solid above ind below it .
We therefore repeated the expcriment wibh the composite blab turned upside down , so as to bring the crack in one half of it now to be above the middle , instead of below the middle , as at .
We still found for the composite slab less ductivity in the part below the middle than in the cool parl above the middle .
We inferred that , in respect to thermal conduction through slate across the jural planes , the thermal conductivity diminishes with increase of tempel.ature .
S 5 .
We next tried a composite slab of sandstone of the same dimensions as the slate , and we fotlnd for it also decisive proof of diminution of hermal conductivity with increase of temperature .
We were not troubled by any cracking of ffie sandstone , with its per side kept cool by an ice-cold metal ] resting on it , and its side to probably as much as 30 or C. S6 .
After that we made a composite piece , of two small slate columns , each cm .
square and cm .
high , with natural cleavage planes vertical , pressed together with thermoelectric junctions as before ; but with appliances ( S below ) for preventing loss or gain of heat across th .
vertical sides , which the smaller horizontal dimensions might require , bub which were manifestly ullllecessary with the larger horizontal dimensions of the slabs of slate and sandstone used in our former experiments .
The thermal flux lines in the former experiments on slate were percular to the natural cleavage plaues , now , with the thermal flux lines parallel to the cleavage planes , we still find the same result , smaller thertnal condnctivity at the higher temperatures .
Numerical esults will be stated in S12 below .
S7 .
Our xperiment were made on a composite piece of Aberdeen granite , made up of two colunlns , each 6 cm .
high and cm .
uare , pressed together , with appliances similar to those described in S6 ; and , as in all our previous experiments on slate and sandstone , we found less thermal conductivity at higher temperatures .
numerical results will be given in S 12 belo S8 .
The accompanying diagram represents tho thermal appliances and thermoelectric arrangement of SS 6 , 7 .
The columns of slate or granlte were placed on supports in a bath of melted tin with about cm .
of their lower ends immersed .
The top of each column was kept cool by mercury , and water changed once a minute , as described in S3 above , contained in a tank having the top of the stone column for its bottom and completed by four vertical metal walls fitted into grooves in the stone and made tight against wet mercury by marime glue .
S9 .
The teml ) el'atures , , , of , the hot , intermediate , cool points in the stone , were determined by equalising to them successively the temperature of the mercury tbermometer in , by aid of thermoelectric circuits and a galvalometer used to test equality of tempsratnre by nullity of cnrrent its coil when placed in the proper circuit , ] as shown in the diagl.am .
The steadiness of temperature in the slone was tested by the temperature of the thermometer constant , and the galvanometer reading current when the junction in the oilank and one or other of the three junctions in the stone were placed 111 circuit .
1Ve also helped ourselves to attainiug coustancy of Variation of Thermal of Rocks .
[ May 30 , temperature in t'ne stole by observing the current ought galvanometer , due to differences of temperature between any two of the three.iunctionsB , placed in circuit with it .
S10 .
We made many experiments to test what appliances might be necessary to secure against gain or loss of heat by the stone across its tical faces , and found that kieselguhr , loosely packed round the columns and contained by a metal case surrounding them at a distance of 2 cm .
or 3 cm .
, prevented any appreciable disturbance to this cause .
This allowed us to feel sure that the thermal flux lines through the stone were very approximately parallel straight lines all sides of the central line BMT .
S 11 .
The thermometer which we use il was one of Cassella 's ( No. 64,168 ) with Kew certificate No. 48 , ature from to , and for equality in volume of the divisions above .
We standardised it by comparison with the constant volume air thermometer*of Dr. Bottomley with the following result .
This is satisfactory that when the zero error is corrected the greatest error of the mercury thermometer , which is at 21 C. , is only of Machines .
deen g : The distances between the juncbions were BM cm .
ar-d MT cm .
S1.3 .
Thus we see , that or , with of flux parallel to planes , the mean conductivity in the range from to C. is 91 per cent. of the mean conductivity in the range C. to C. , for granibe , mean conductivity in the from C. to C. is 88 per cent. of the mean conductivity in the rauge from C. to C. The general plan of apparatus , ribed above , which we have used only for comparing the con ; at different temperatures , will , we believe , be fouud readily applicable to the tion of conductivit , in absolute measure .
II .
' The Kinematics of Macbines By T. A. HEARSON , , Professor of Mer , hanism and Engiring , Indian Engineering College , Coopers Hill .
Corm runicated by COTTERILL , .
Received March

