ale des Sciences , Docteur en Medicine de la Faculte de Paris , &amp; Professeur en Botanique au Jardin Royal des Plants .
A Paris de l'imprimerie royale .
1698 .
8vo .
XIV .
An Account of Books newly printed beyond Sea .
XV .
An Account of Books now Printing beyond Sea .
1 .
A Relation of the Symptoms that attended the Death of Mr. Robert Burdett , an English Merchant of Aleppo , who was killed by the Bite of a Serpent .
Communicated by Mr. Aaron Goodyear , who was then preseut .
MR. Robert Burdet , on the Fourth of October , 1678 .
was bit by a Serpent on the Left Wrist , near the Pulse towards his Hand ; it seemed at first like two Pricks of a Pin , he immediately vomited , and his Wrist and Hand begun to swell presently ; he had some few Days before a Looseness , which perhaps this increased ; he rode easily alone , after he was bit , ( above two Miles off ) to Aleppo , from the Borders of the Vineyards by Nerope Plain ; as soon as he got to his Chamber , he said , he was bit by a Rat ( and would not own it was a Serpent ) though a Turk accidentally passing by , said , he saw the Serpent hang at his Wrist , as he pulled his Hand out of the Refuge , hoping to have taken a Hare that he had Cours 'd in there ; he said , he felt no pain , but a great desire to sleep ; his Arm continued swelling upwards , and grew black ; some little Remedies were used till the rest of the Factory returned , who knew nothing of this , he being then alone , from the rest in the Field ; then they begun to Cup and scarify his Arm ; he having still no Pain , but a great Drowsiness ; but was kept waking , to use that little time he had left , to prepare himself for Death ; which he performed exceedingly well ; at last the Swelling came up to his Shoulder , and then he complained much ; and within a Quarter of an Hour died .
He was bit about Ten in the Forenoon , and died about Three in the Afternoon ; his Body swelled much after Death , and purged .
The Snake was like a common Snake , for length ; his Colour dark sandy , with black Spots ; his two Teeth , or Fangs are like those of a Rattle-Snake , on the Upper Jaw ; the Poison lies in the Gums ; and wherever they fetch Blood of any Creature they certainly kill ; though in some Parts sooner than in others .
The Oil of Tobacco kills the Serpent , if put in his Mouth , as was experienced .
The People of the Country say , that if , as soon as any one is bit by a Serpent , they shall suck immediately the Wound , they may be saved ; but they rub first their Gums and Teeth with Oil , that none of the Poison may touch any Place ; where the Skin is broken , and spit out immediately what they suck , every time washing the Mouth , and taking more Oil .
This Serpent killed a Dog , in about Eight Minutes time , biting him at the end of his Ear ; and two young Turkeys afterwards in three or four Minutes each , biting them at the end of a Claw ; and then we poisoned him with the Oil of Tobacco out of a Reed Pipe ( that had been much used , and not cleansed for a Week or Two ) and he died in about two or Three Minutes , trembling as soon as the Oil was dropped into his Mouth .
There are People that get their Bread by taking and showing these Serpents : They find them in hot Days near Rocks , or the Mountains , and elsewhere ; putting a Stick nigh their Head , take them up carefully by the Neck , as you hold a Rabbit , and putting them into a Leather Bag , carrying them about to show .

