Observations on the Hirudo vulgaris .
By .
Tames Rawlins Johnson , M.D. F.L.S. 8c .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. ead Nov ember 14 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 13 .
] The animal here described under the name of Hirudo vulgaris , is the same that has been denominated by Linnaeus and others , Hirudo octoculata , on account of the number of its eyes ; but since the Hirudo tessulata has also eight eyes , it has been thought proper to change that name for one not liable to mislead .
This little animal is found very commonly in rivulets , attached to the under surface of stones .
Its length varies from one inch to an inch and an half .
The back is of a dark brown , marked with numerous transverse lines , and a central line longitudinally of a black colour .
On the belly also is a longitudinal black line , but the rest is of a yellowish-green colour .
In structure this animal very much resembles the Hirudo medicinalis , having the anus at the extremity of the tail , and four longitudinal vessels destined to convey the circulating blood , one dorsal , one abdominal , and two lateral .
In these , eight pulsations are observable in the course of a minute , but not derived from any central organ corresponding to the heart of other animals .
Its food consists of very small worms , which it swallows whole .
The object of the present communication is to record such peculiarities as the author has observed in its mode of propagation , to which he has paid attention during the last two summers .
Having found a pair of them copulating as hermaphrodites , like the common snail , on the 13th of August , he watched the period at which eggs were deposited , and found a capsule of eggs produced on the 17th , and another on the 18th , both of which were subsequently hatched .
The same leech also laid as many as seven more capsules , at intervals of two or three days in succession , but all these last seven proved abortive .
Those which were productive showed signs of life in three weeks , and in five more the young made their escape from the capsule .
The capsule in which the eggs are deposited is formed as a memn branous ring , surrounding the body of the parent in the region of the uterus , at the same time that the eggs are forming within the uterus .
When the animal is about to produce a capsule , it fixes itself by the tail , and in the course of ten minutes is seen to become much distended in the region of the uterus , but contracted both above and below that part .
The swelling at first has the ordinary dark colour of the animal , but in a few minutes a film is seen to separate , and become of a milky white colour , from the contents of the uterus , which are forcibly emitted into it .
The animal itself , being thereby diminished , next loosens itself from the enveloping membrane by forcible elongation of the fore part of the body , and then withdraws its head backwards , as from a collar , leaving two openings in the capsule , which , after contraction , remain visible as dark specks , one at each end .
These are the points at which the young ultimately make their escape , being apparently aided by the comparative weakness of these parts of the membrane .
At the time that they are hatched the young are nearly colourless , and they continue so for several months with very little enlargement .
While young they have the property of swimming at the surface of the water with their bellies uppermost , as has beein noticed by Miiller in the Hirudo hippoglossi , and as the author has also noticed in two other species of Hirudo .

