394 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
SeismometrMeasurements [ June 21 , In comparing these observations with those made during the 1878 eclipse , it must be remembered that the conditions of observation on the two occasions were widely different .
The observations in the West Indies were made at the sea 's level , in a perfectly humid atmosphere and with the sun at no greater altitude than 19 ' .
Professor Langley , in 1878 , observed from the summit of Pike 's Peak in the Rocky Mountains at an altitude of 14,000 feet , in a relatively dry atmosphere and with the sun at an altitude of 39 ' .
From observations on the transmission of sunlight through the earth 's atmosphere ( Abney , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 178 ( 1887 ) , p. 251 ) one of the authors has developed the law of the extinction of light , and , by applying the necessary factors , it is found that the intensity of the light during the 1886 eclipse , as observed at Grenada , is almost exactly half of that of which would have been transmitted from a corona of the same intrinsic brightness when observed at Pike 's Peak .
Hence to make the observations of Professor Langley comparable with those of the authors , the numbers denoting the photometric intensity of the corona in 1878 must be halved .
The result appears , therefore , that whereas in 1878 the brightness of the corona was 0'0305 of a standard candle at a distance of 1 foot , in 1886 it was only 0-0124 of a candle at the same distance .
Several of the observers of the West Indian Eclipse ( including one of the authors ) were also present at the eclipse of 1878 , and they concur in the opinion that the darkness during the 1886 eclipse was very much greater than in that of 1878 .
The graduations on instruments , chronometer faces , which were easily read in 1878 , were barely visible in 1886 .
In explanation of this difference in luminous intensity it must not be forgotten that the 1878 eclipse was not very far removed from a period of maximum disturbance , whereas in 1886 we were approaching a period of minimum disturbance .
XV .
" Seismometric Measurements of the Vibration of the New Tay Bridge during the Passing of Railway Trains .
" By J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Professor of Engineering in University College , Dundee .
Received June 20 , 1888 .
The absolute methods of seismometry which have been developed during recent years in Japan , and have been applied to the measurement of earthquakes there and elsewhere , may serve a useful purpose in determining the extent and manner of the shaking to which engineering structures are subject through storms of wind , moving loads , or other causes of disturbance .
Existing forms of seismograph are well suited for measurements of this kind , provided the frequency of the Vibration of the Bridge .
1888 .
] of the vibrations to be measured is neither very much greater nor very much less than is usual in earthquakes , and provided , of course , the amplitude of vibration does not exceed the capacity of the instrument .
For vibrations of high frequency a greater rigidity in the multiplying and recording apparatus would be necessary ; in vibrations of very long period , on the other hand , the ; mass whose inertia furnishes the steady-point of reference will not remain at rest .
Between these extremes , however , there is a wide range within which snqh seismographs as are now used to measure earthquakes may be trusted to give a record that is correct in all substantial particulars , and the vibrations to be referred to below fall within this range .
The writer has recently employed his Duplex Pendulum Seismograph to examine the vibration of the new Tay Bridge while railway trains are passing over it , facilities for this examination having been kindly given by Mr. Fletcher F. S. Kelsey , resident representative of Messrs. Barlow , the engineers of the bridge .
The results are perhaps worth publishing , not so much for any interest they have in themselves , as because they exemplify a novel method of inquiry which may prove of use in other cases to engineers .
The duplex pendulum seismograph , which was designed for and applied to the measurement of earthquakes in Japan in 1882 , * consists essentially of a pair of masses which are supported and connected in such a manner that they form an astatic combination with freedom to move in any horizontal direction .
One of the two is hung from above and is stable ; the other is supported from below and is unstable ; and the two are constrained to move together by a ball-and-tube coupling .
Their equilibrium is adjusted to be very nearly neutral , and this fits them to furnish a steady-point with respect to which motion of the ground in any azimuth may be recorded and measured .
The motion is recorded by a lever , the marking point of which draws a magnified copy of the horizontal motion of the ground upon a smoked-glass plate .
Fig. 1 shows the construction of the duplex pendulufn seismograph as used in these experiments , and as now made by the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company for earthquake observatories .
The stable mass is a disk of lead a cased in brass ( shown in section in fig. I ) hung by three parallel wires from the top of the containing box .
This trifilar suspension has several advantages over the usual suspension of a pendulum from a single point ; in particular it prevents twisting about a vertical axis .
The unstable or inverted pendulum b is also a disk of lead below the other , and is held up by a tubular strut which ends in a hard steel point resting in an agate socket in the * See 'Transactions of the Seismological Society of Japan , ' vol. 5 , p. 89 , or the author 's memoir on " Earthquake Measurement " ( 'Memoirs of the Science department of the University of Tokio , ' No. 9 , 1883 ) .
VOL. XLJV .
o si 396 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
Seismometric Measurements [ June 21 , Fig. 1.\#151 ; Section through Duplex Pendulum Seismograph .
( Scale 4 .
) 1888 .
] of the Vibration of the new Bridge .
base of the box .
A small brass ball attached to the lower mass b fits easily but without shake in a cylindrical hole in a , so that the two must swing together .
The masses of a and b are proportioned , with respect to their distances from their respective supports , so that the equilibrium of the compound system is nearly neutral , and by way of final adjustment the upper disk a may be raised or lowered by turning the pins at the top until the margin of stability is as small as may be wished .
The recording lever is held by a gimbal joint in a bracket d , fixed to the side of the box , and capable of adjustment vertically and horizontally .
The bottom of the lever is a ball which gears into the hole in a , and at the top there is a hinged index of straw with a needle-point to write the record .
To reduce friction , part of the weight of the straw is borne by a spring e. The smoked ' glass plate / stands on a shelf which projects from one of the sides of the case , which is a triangular box .
In the particular instrument employed at the Tay Bridge , the ground 's motion was magnified six times .
The seismograph was set upon the ground in the six-foot way between the two pairs of rails at the middle of the length of the southernmost high girder , at a distance of about 1\#177 ; mile from the Dundee end of the bridge , and f mile from the Fife end .
The girders are there 245 feet long , and stand at a height of about 110 feet above the bottom ol the river and 13o feet above the foundations of the piers .
Between this and the Fife shore there are 28 piers ; towards Dundee there are 57 piers , and at that end the bridge forms a curve of 21 chains radius by which its direction is turned through nearly a right angle as it approaches the shore * In this position observations were made while eight trains crossed the bridge .
There was no wind , and , until a train came on , the recording index of the seismograph stood perfectly at rest .
As soon , however , as a train entered the bridge\#151 ; from either end_ the index began to move .
The movements were at first so minute that it was difficult to estimate their range with any accuracy ; allowing foi the multiplication given by the lever , the movement began with longitudinal shaking through something like of an inch .
In the case of trains coming from Dundee this was transmitted round the bend of the bridge and was noticed long before the train had reached the straight part .
At first the movement was wholly longitudinal , and it was not until the train had come much nearer that lateral oscillation began-to be felt .
The interval by which longitudinal vibrations preceded transverse vibrations was much greater than could be explained by difference in their velocity of transmission .
Hear the , Tr'r Pa ; l'^cu^ar3 'f the dimensions of the bridge , reference should be made to AugulfSi887PaPer ^ the ' ProeeedinSs of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers , ' 898 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
Seismometric Measurements [ June 21 , source of disturbance ( as one learnt later when the train was passing the seismograph ) the lateral movement was actually greater than the longitudinal ; it appeared , therefore , that longitudinal disturbance reached the instrument from greater distances than lateral disturbance , because it was transmitted along the bridge with less loss .
As the train came nearer , lateral movements became superposed on the longitudinal ones , and the index of the seismograph described an immense series of irregular loops , the range of which increased at first slowly and then quickly to a maximum as the train passed the instrument .
Along with this progressive increase there was a periodic rise and fall in amplitude , the beat of which apparently agreed with the interval taken by the train to pass from pier to pier over successive spans .
The last faint movements terminated abruptly when the train cleared the structure .
The vibrations were too numerous to allow the diagrams drawn by the seismograph to be at all clear , and a better idea of the motion was to be got by watching the index than by subsequent examination of the record .
Pig .
2 reproduces two of the diagrams , and is sufficiently representative of the rest .
As the figure is printed , the top and bottom are in the longitudinal direction of the bridge .
Of the two , the figure marked A was drawn first by a passenger train coming from the south end : after it had passed the seismograph and when the oscillations were again small , it was observed that another ' train had entered the bridge from Dundee .
The glass plate was accordingly moved by hand to a new position , and the second diagram ( B ) was obtained .
The movements were in general of the form of nearly closed loops resembling ellipses\#151 ; showing that the periods of lateral and of longitudinal vibration did not differ greatly .
In the greatest movements the loops are much wider in the lateral than in the longitudinal direction .
The greatest lateral movement appears to have been about one-tenth , certainly not more than one-eighth of an inch ; the greatest longitudinal movement about one-fourth of this .
There were about three complete vibrations per second .
1338 .
] of the Vibration of the new Tay Bridge .
The seismograph was afterwards set up just above the pier at the south end of the span in the middle of which it had previously been standing , and five more records were obtained in the new position .
Except that the motion was somewhat less , they had much the same characteristics as before .
The following notes refer to the passage of a slow goods-train from Dundee as observed from this position Mins .
Secs .
30 40 Train entered bridge : minute longitudinal oscillation began .
32 0 Train entered straight portion of bridge .
33 0 Lateral oscillation began .
36 0 Train passed seismograph .
38 10 Tail van of train off bridge : oscillation ceased .
In all seismometric work , whether it be the measurement of earthquakes proper , or of such shakings as these , the trustworthiness of the record depends on the degree to which the presumed " steady-point " of the instrument remains at rest during a protracted disturbance of the base .
The accuracy of a seismograph admits of .easy experimental test in the manner which the author described and illustrated when communicating to the Royal Society an account of his Horizontal Pendulum Seismograph , for recording separate components of motion upon a moving plate* The test consists in placing the instrument upon a stand which may be shaken by hand and causing a true autograph of the motion of the stand to be drawn by an independently supported index , side by side with the record that is drawn by the seismograph itself .
Fig. 3 shows how this test was applied to the instrument with which the Tay Bridge observa- ' tions were made .
The seismograph was mounted on a stand which was constructed to give it two degrees of freedom of horizontal translation , without freedom to rotate .
This was done by laying a pair of turned steel rollers parallel to each other on the top of a steady evel table ; a small drawing-board rested on them ; on the top of it a second pair of steel rollers were laid at right angles to the pair elow ; a second small drawing-board lay on them , and the instrument stood upon it .
The upper board was then free for translation in all azimuths , and was shaken by hand so that it mutated the motion in an actual earthquake .
A record of this motion was drawn by the seismograph index , and beside it a second lecord was drawn by the lever and index g ( fig. 3 ) which was held \gt ; y a gimbal joint in a stiff bracket h secured to the upper board , and \gt ; o i s motion from a true steady-point i obtained by making the bottom end of the lever in the form of a small ball socketed in a * " On a new Seismograph , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 31 , 1881 , p. 440 .
400 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
Seismometric Measurements [ June 21r cylindrical hole in the bracket j , which was firmly fixed to the ( motionless ) top of the table .
When the multiplication given by this lever g is arranged to be the same as that given by the seismograph the two records should be identical , except for error caused by the " steady-point " of the seismograph wandering through friction , or because of the stability of the suspended mass , and except for those errors which both the seismograph and the testing lever are liable to Fig- .
3.\#151 ; Arrangement for testing the Duplex Pendulum Seismograph .
through backlash at the joints and want of rigidity in the lever and index arm .
In practice the agreement between the records is most satisfactory .
Fig- 4 gives examples of the result of this test as applied to the seismograph which was used upon the Tay Bridge , when the shaking was made to imitate such movements as the 1888 .
] of the Vibration of the new Tay Bridge .
ground executes in small and in large earthquakes .
Tests of this kind not only demonstrate the accuracy of the seismograph , but are a convenient means of finding experimentally the ratio in which the recording index multiplies the motion of the ground .
Fro .
4 .
Comparison diagrams to test accuracy of Duplex Pendulum Seismograph .
I'or^an exhaustive examination of the vibration of a structure under live loads , the more elaborate type of seismograph might e used , which records linear components of the motion on a surface The Vibration of the new Tay Bridge .
[ June 21 , that is moved uniformly by clockwork .
The usual form of this instrument comprises two horizontal pendulums , for the two horizontal components , and a third piece which is suspended astatically with freedom to move up and down only for the vertical component.* This arrangement employs a distinct mass and a distinct " steady-point " with respect to each component .
The duplex pendulum may , however , be modified , or rather supplemented , so that it records two components of horizontal motion separately ( on a moving surface ) by attaching to one or other of the bobs a pair of slot guides at right angles to the direction of the two components , and pivotting in these the short ends of a pair of recording levers , so that each lever will be moved when the bob moves across the direction of the corresponding slot , but will not be moved when the bob moves along that direction .
This makes a compact form of two-component horizontal seismograph , with the advantage that by retaining the ordinary index we have , in addition to the components , a plan drawn of the whole shaking .
For the vertical component it is convenient to have a distinct astatically hung mass .
But , as a sort of tour de force in astatic suspension , one or other of the bobs of the duplex pendulum may be allowed to have a limited amount of vertical freedom , and may have its equilibrium made nearly neutral for vertical displacements as well as for horizontal displacements .
Let the upper bob , for instance , be hung from a platform which is free to rise and fall by rotating about a horizontal axis , and which is held up by springs .
By applying the pull of the springs in such a manner that the moment of the pull about that axis is always nearly equal to the moment of the weight , we may approach vertical astaticism as closely as may be wished , and , provided the movements up and down are not too great to interfere with the proper gearing of the bobs , the mass will then possess universal freedom of translation , with nearly neutral equilibrium for all directions of displacement .
In practical seismometry , however , it is no doubt advisable to restrict the freedom of the suspended mass to ( at most ) two degrees .
The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 15 th .
* See 'Transactions of the Seismological Society of Japan , ' vol. 3 ( 1881 ) , p. 140 , or the author 's memoir on " Earthquake Measurement " cited above .
A complete three-component instrument is described in 'Nature , ' vol. 34 , p. 343 .

