Some Observations in the Dissection of a Ratt , communicated by Mr. R. W. S.R.S. THE Fore-Feet of a Rat resemble those of the Castor .
The Hair is also some Fine , some Course ; as in that Animal .
The Tail scaly , with Hairs between every Scale , like the Castors , which shows these two Animals to be something akin ; and indeed the WaterRat comes very near to the Beaver , and makes it 's Holes in the bank-sides of Ponds after the same manner .
The Penis in the Rat has a particular Passage near the Navel , as in Squirrels ; and not at the Anus , as in the Castor .
The Liver is full of little Specks as big as Pins Heads , which are the little Glands thereof .
There was no Gall-Bladder , but a Ductus Felleus ; possibly the Bladder was enclosed in the Parenchyma of the Liver , as it is in some Animals .
The Caecum was much larger than the Stomach , and in shape like that of the Castor .
The Testicles lay not behind , but in the Groins on the Os Pubis .
These were like a Bottom or Skein of Thread rumpled up together , which was visible through the Coats of the Testicle .
This Thread continued of near the same Size in the Epididymides , only towards the Deferentia it grew larger , as is seen in the Figure .
It was tender , and not easy to be unravelled , so that I could not draw out above Three Quarters of a Yard .
The Prostatae lay under the Spermatic Arteries .
The Kidneys were whitish with their Succenturiati , as in the Figure annexed .
At the Neck of the Bladder were inserted the Vesiculae Seminales , transparent and filled with the Semen .
Toward the End of the Penis , which had a Bony Gristle , were two large Glands , emptying themselves near the End of the Penis , and contained a Substance like Cream , as in the Dormouse , observed by Swammerdam .
Figure the 6th represents , A A , The Kidneys .
F , The Bladder .
g g , The Spermatick Vessels , a a , The Renes SuccenVeins and Arteries .
turiati .
h h , The Testes , with the Branches of the Veins and b b , The Ureters .
Arteries .
i i , The Epididymides .
c c , The Crural Veins k k , The Deferentia .
and Arteries .
l , The Penis .
m m , Vesiculae Seminales .
D , Arteria Magna .
n n , Two Glands , from whence a thick Juice might be e , Vena Cava .
pressed out .
V O~a Fig:6 .
a Fig:4 .
PA WIMDe AA KL Fig:8 .
bb Fe~ Fig:5 .
gg cc bZYmm aCF ii l ~kk DCnn hh IF G Fig:7 .
ii o

