IV .
" 1 Note on Kinone .
" By A. W. HorMANN , LL. D.T F.R.S. Received June 23 , 1863 .
The easy 'and perfect transformation of beta-phenylene-diamine into kinione , which I have pointed ouLt in a former communication , has induced me to examine the action of oxidizing agents upon other derivatives of the phenyl-series .
Aniline , when submitted to the action of a mixture of peroxide of manganese and sulphuric acid , furnishes very appreciable quiantities of kinone , which sublimes , the residue containing the sulphates of ammonium and manganese .
C6 H7 N +02 Co 14 02+ H3 N. Aniline .
Kinone .
This equation represenits , however , only one phase of the reactioni .
The result , in a measure , depends upon the mode of experimenting : one part of aniline , four parts of peroxide of manganese , and four parts of stulphuric acid diluted with its own bulk of water were found to be appropriate proportions .
But the amount of kiinone is always limited , the greater portion of the aniline undergoing further alterations .
The experiment succeeds mtlch better with benzidine .
Oni heat'ing the mixture of this base with the oxidizingc agents , torrents of kinone are instantaneously evolved , which Condense in the receiver into magnificent yellow needles .
The quantity of kinone thus obtained corresponds to the amount of benzidine employed .
C12H1 N2+N 1120+03=2 14 0+2 I-13 N. Beizidine .
Kinone .
The transformation of aniline into kinonie , very natutially suggested the idea of examining the behaviour of these two bodies with onie another .
The reddish-brown liquid obtained by dissolving kinone in aniili ie very rapidly solidifies into a crystalline mass .
The crystalline product of the reaction proved to be insoluble in water , alcohol , and ethler , and several solvents which I tried , so that purification by crystallizationi became inipossible ; it was therefore found to be convenient to accomplish the reaction in the presence of a large quantity of boiling alcohol .
The brown liquid deposits on cooling reddish brown almost inetal-lstrous scales , which by washing with cold alcohol become perfectly pure .
The analysis of this substance shows that it has the following composition.(Co 11 , ) .
, 18 E14N 02 ?
3 ( Co 112 02 ) " }Nx 1-12 ) The complementary product of the reaction was discovered without difficulty in the mother-liquor of the reddish-brown crystals .
The saline residue which is lcft on evaporating this liquid with h-ydrochloric acid , is a mixture of hydrochlorate of aniline and hydrrokinone .
They are easily separated by treatment with ether , which dissolves the hydrokinione , leaving the aniline-salt as an insoluble residue .
The ethereal solution , when evaporated , yields colourless needles of hydrokinone possessing all the characteristic properties which distinguish this remarkable body .
Addition of ferric chloride to their aqueous solution produces at olnce the green prisms , with goldeln lustre of the intermediate hydrokinone .
The action of kinone upon aniline is therefore represented by the following equation:2C6 i-I7N+3 CB 614O2=C1 is14N2 ?
2+2C , 11 ?
02 Aniline .
Kinone .
Brown crystals .
I-Tydroliinone .
The study of this reaction has induced me to repeat an experiment mentioned by M. Hesse in his beautiful researches on the kinione group* .
By submitting aniline to the action of chloranile ( tetrachlorkinonie ) , M. IlHesse has obtainied a compound crystallizing in reddish-brown scales , the general properties of which resemble those of the kinone derivative above described .
The composition of the compouind form-ed with chlor .
anile M. Ilesse represents by the formula ( C'6 115 ) , 1C 42 112 1 014 04N15:= ( C6 Cl 2 02)"12 N5_ I cannot confirm this somewhat complicated expression .
In studying the action of chloranile upon aniline , I have observed all the phenomena described by M. Iesse : the compound formed had all the properties which lbe assigns to it , but was found on analysis to contain about 2 per cent. of carbon less than he had observed .
The substance examined by me contained ( C6 1_15)21 C18 11 12 Cl2N2 02= ( C6 Cl2 02 ) " N2 1-12 J This is the formula of the kinone derivative with two atoms of hydrogen replaced by chlorine .
The action of chloranile on aniline is therefore , in a measure , analogous to that of kinone .
4C 6117 N+C 6C C140 2= C18E112 C12N2 02+ 2 C6 7 N , HC1 Aniline .
Chloranile .
Ilydrochlorate of aniline .
The formula which I propose to substitute for that of M. Ilesse is mioreover supported by the result obtained in studying the deportment of chloraniile under the influence of ammonia .
This gives rise to the formation of chloranilamide discovered by Laurentt , and represented by the formula ( CO C12 02 ) " C ? ?
114 Cl2 N2 02= H2 N 2 .
H }2N I have ascertained that toluidine furnishes , both with kinone and chloranile , anialogous compounds .
The higher percentage of carbon observed by M. Hesse may possibly find a satisfactory explanation in the contamination with toluidine of the aniline which has served for his experiments .
Commercial aniline invariably contains more or less toluidine .

