]\gt ; Dr. E. J. Mills on Electrostriction .
[ Dec. 18 , round the parenchyma of that organ , yet there is to be seen in many ions a curious similarity in that respect also .
The present communication does not go beyond a statement of points of resemblance .
The corpus luteum , which enters so largely into the comparison , is itself as much an unsolved problem as the suprarenal .
It may be said , however , to aflord better opportunities of study ; and if the resemblancs above outlined be a resemblance in essentials , a sound theory of the suprarenal as a whole will probably be found to depend upon a sound theory of the corpus luteum .
December 13 , 1877 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Among the Presents was a transparent positive photograph of the sun on glass , taken at Nfeudon by M. Janssen , For .
Mem. R.S. , and presented by him to the Society .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , lTarcellin Berthelot , Joseph Decaisne , ] Du Bois-ffiymond , Adolph Hermann Kolbe , Rudolph Leuckart , Simon Newcomb , and Pafnutij Tschebytschew were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were I. On Electrostriction By EDMUND J. D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , ' Young\ldquo ; Professor of Technical Chemistry in Anderson 's College , Glasgow .
Received August 7 , 1877 .
If the bulb of an ordinary thermometer be coated chemically with , and then electrically with a deposit , the mercury ] ] traverse some portion of the scale , and finally take up a delinite position , independentl .
of ture .
To this phenomenoll I have given the name electrostriction .
Of the metals hitherto worked with , copper , silver , iron , and constrict the bulb ; zinc and cadmium disfend it .
The conditions under which the experiments vrere mnde ere as thermometer ith silver immersion in a solution of ammoniacal argentic was ] aced 1 thermometer at one side of a depositing cell ; the nnode stood distance of 11 centimetres .
The bulbs of the thermometers were about their depth below the surface of the electrolyte ; the coYered one was turned half round at every comparison .
The source of electricity was pint 1877 .
] Dr. E. J. Mills on Electrostriction .
Daniell 's cell , having porous diaphragm , and the circuit included a galvanoscope .
Observations were made at definite of time , immediately after stirring the liquid ; the difference the two scales , after suitable reduction , registered as electrostrictive effect .
The temperature was in all cases the unrestricted temperature of the laboratory .
thermometel first used a cylindrical bulb , which as slightly ) its lGl'tical axis .
The electrolyte consisted of the ordinary acidified solution of cupric sulphate , containin zincic sulphate .
In the following Table the contains the time in hours ; that below the number of scale-umits degrees " " C. ) remaining to be traversed .
The latter are compared a of alnes c lculated from the equation\mdash ; TABLE I. .
Temp. Mean tempernture The differenoe veen e and ulation in the last of is doubtless due to the considerable of ification o in the electrolyte , hich had not been stir subsequently to the last ation .
omitting this result , the ] ) of a comparison of the calculated the of .
lcuhted total ascent is scale-uuils .
By coulinuing the ] ) meant , with two Daniell 's cclls , units were actu attained .
A thermometer 502 nrly s next employed ; its polnr line the thread ) measured 11 , ils millimetres .
This ) iu the preceding , immersed crtically the , and round half-hour .
osit on ou a spher is , ndel S eircumstances , ont of qucstio ] ] , most of the ou Dr. E. J. Mills on Electrostriction .
[ Dec. 18 , ifs equatorial , and much less on the polar regions .
The registered rise was the height of the mercury in melting ice .
After the twenty-sscond hour , and as soon as the scale bad been read with the kathetometsr , the mercury rose spontaneously of a unit .
The subsequent observations are accordingly lessened by this amount .
The equation is\mdash ; TABLE II .
3.556 calc .
Temp. 14.7 Mean temperature Ths above values of are conYertible into hours by multiplying by 2 .
The probable errol of a single comparison of theory with iment is 057 .
After the fiftieth hour the operation was left unattended for hours , when an additional rise of 25 was found to have place .
On other occasions ascent of was obtained , with thermometer 454 , in twenty-four hours , the thickness of the deposit being approximately millimetre .
An ascent of was also observed with tber- mometer 455 , the thickness of metal being probably not than a millimetre .
The zero of thermometers was found to be nearly the fter electrostriction and stripping as first ; it had not risen more than Silver.\mdash ; Thermometer 454 , slightly coated with silvel .
by electro-deposition , used in the experiments : the coating first -papered and polished .
} atiollS -ore made and the thermometer semirotated every -hour until the fifth hour ; the electrolyte was not stirred between the fifth and twenty-third hours , but after this interval the ordinary course of observations resumed .
Ihe equa- tion is\mdash ; 1877 .
] Dr. E. J. Mills on Electrostriction .
TABLJl III .
/ 7 .
cnlc .
Mean ture 1 The probable elror of a ison is Iron.\mdash ; The bulb of as prcpared as nsual , then coated during hours with copper .
of iron as next proceeded ith , nnd the lecorde(f .
ths third and fourth a slit was seen to form at the bottom of the and gradually extend to the shoulder .
TABLL lie .
Hours .
Total abcent .
2 It must be extremely to obtniu a of iron of considelable thickness .
Thermometer nsed .
Tho tIld 1hode 1 cre 95 millimetres aptl.t .
The ) ) to } of ' tral S of almno -mckelous sulphnte ; of cnrbido . .
Hout .
S. 1 !
When l$st ] ) ) ) } side oppositc the 508 Dr. E. J. Mills on Electrostriction .
[ Dec. 13 , Zinc.\mdash ; Two pint Daniell 's cells were employed , and thermometer 454 .
The results were as follows:\mdash ; TABLE Hours .
Total descent .
Temp. 0 .
It is probable , from the graphic proiection of these numbers , that the descent attained after the forty-seventh hour would have been little , if at all , exceeded by prolonging the experiment .
\mdash ; The conditions were thoss of the preceding set of observations .
TABLE Hours .
Total .
Temp. At the end of the experiment the deposit was found to be somewhat corrugated , but fairly satisfactory .
The electrolyte had the of being freshly prepared , and not having been continuously worked prior to this deposition .
Value of the Electrostr In order to ascertain the of the electrostrictive effeot , thermometer 454 was djusted in a water-pressuIe apparntus capable of indicating about : it then submitted to uniform compression , and the resulting ascent of the mercury in its stem noted .
Two sets of observations at higher pressures showed , after the usual reductions , that a unit of scale corresponded to and atmospheres respectively ; the mean is atmospheres .
After this the bulb of the instrument was tely broken , while preparing it for considerably increased compression .
I have , however , little hesitation in accepting this result as a for calculating the total electrostriotive effect much higher readings .
Similarly thermometer 502 , a depression of C. was caused by ; this would correspond to atmospheres per scnle-ullit .
Again , tell experiments with thermometer 455 were conducted in an 's duplex ( a most 1877 .
] Dr. E. J. ills on Electrostriction .
instrument for such a purpose ) , at pressures varying from to By these it was found that a scale-unit corresponds , in this case , to atmospheres , a probable error of atmosphere for a slngle determination .
The above data have led to the construction of the table .
TABLE effect Metal .
Therm. Effect .
in scale-ullits .
in tluospheres .
Cadmium . . . . . .
4.3-4 Distensiou ) Zin . . . . . . . . . .
, , , , Nickel . . . . . . . .
, , npression Iron . . . . . . . . . .
, , , , Silver .
, , , , Copper . . . . . . . .
, , , , , , , , It thus appears that the extreme force at on the bulbs must have been very considerable .
and ) ( 1 ) An instrument } a general resemblance to thernlometer constructed lvith a oylindrical caoutchouc bulb , about 30 millimetres long by 11 millimetres ride .
The bulb rendered conducve , and made a kathode in the copper bath already referred to ; us fi.equently turned half round .
In the course of a day it had become coafed itl1 sufficiently thick layer of metal , and had then ) ] pable collapse .
We have here , , a real case of ictive effect .
( 2 ) Iwo flat microscopic slides of the usual sered c and then made the kathode in similar circuit .
After -fonr hours , the deposited coppel .
both slides to bc nrched wards and the anode ; Ihe deposits ere in fact , to their contiguity , to a great extent ullited .
The ) ) of deposits had torn themselves from he ralIel lines cut the ] } of one of ) had ) them curled ards like a gutter .
this it ferred that the cylindrical deposit , if cut in the of ils , old spring open .
Such to be ] ] .
the copper deposited on the bulb ; still with copper of the s was stretched a there did not admit of coll ) of iron fihns has lready been notic.ed .
This number bc wrolJg in cither .ectiun by 610 Dr. E. J. Mills on Electrostriction .
[ Dec. 13 , ( 3 ) The electrostrictive eflect brings vividly to the mind the ordinary phenomenon of contraction during cooling\mdash ; diflering , perhaps , but little from that phenomenon , except in the circumstance that it is br.ought about without necessary change of temperature .
The electrolyte is , in a manner , a melted metal .
This view did not , of course , admit of experimental illustration in the case of the metals to which reference has been made .
It was , however , conceived that substances other than metallic should yield the result in question , and a specimen of hard paraffin was for trial .
This was heated to a point not far from that of fusion , and thermometer 454 was dipped into it several successive times .
The following table shows the constriction obtained .
No. of dip .
Total ascent .
Temp. These results were confirmed by a second set of experiments .
In each set , the coating of paraffin was found to he vertically fissured before the conclusion of the observations ; this accounts for the diminution of the effect .
( 4 ) Electrostrictin metal appears to be in a partially unstable condition .
Thus a decided fall is observable in a coated thermometer after the deposit has had its surface disturbed by sand-papering or filing ; this was noticed both silver and copper .
On the other hand , the con- strictiye effect is increased by heating the deposit to , or by keeping in ice .
Thermometer , for example , having had its zero raised electrostrictively to an elevation to after for ten minutes to vards falling permanently to .
Thermometer 50 had its zero raised in a similar manner to ; this increased to by a temperature of .
In another experiment with the thermometer , a like increase from to was recorded ; the latter number rose spontaneously to in the course of six months .
similar thermometers ( 103 and 104 ) were electrostricted at about C. , and the zero ) found to rise by heating , as before .
zero of 103 then fell , dnring nine months , from to ; that of 104 fell during months from to , and then rose during seven months to .
Thermometer 101 , made exactly on the same pattern , but left unooated , exhibited the usual continuous ascent of zero during the same period , viz. from to in nine months .
Ail three thermometers and normal at .
Facts like these prove that the nature of the deposit requires further eIucidation .
any case the best evidence of electrostrictiye effect is gnined , 1877 .
] Dr. E. J. uills on Electrostriction .
with copper at least , at the melting-point of ice ; and it is improbablo that copper deposited at or neal old not show any such effect at any temperature .
One circumstance be mentioned as bearing ou this point , .
that the electrostrictive effect is greater , and more rapidly produced , at the winter ture than at that of summer .
It may be added that soft metallic deposits are , as a rule , ined from heated electrolytes .
( 5 ) Uniform pressure on a cylinder takes chiefly on diameter , and less on the length ; and these results are in dependent of each other * .
lf we conceive such pressure to be produced by the electric deposition of successive years of metal ( as as actually the case with thermometer 502 ) , it seems sonable to suppose that each of the layers will have the constrictive .
But the first layer constricts the bulb lone ; the second constricts the first also ; the third its predecessors , so on .
Hence the obser ) effect upon the bulb should diminish at compound interest .
If / ?
be the total able effect after a time .
the portiou of ib due to constriction , the portion of it due to constriction , and and the respective geometric factors , have , in the of cylindrical thermometer , being always greater than L. On the hand , the thermomster necessari ] more upon its torial reglon than can be deposited above , that nearer to the anode ; and the lougitudinal constrictive must tend to bulge the equatorial ptut , opposing the constriction vork there .
Hence we have , for the sphere , being the greater as before .
it ] ) in both cases , at the early of deposition , vcen and inal compression eell much multiplied by the incrensed that ) riod , an equation may doubtless more { he ubject to this and some lss of which ould be of in eement btheorv e unit , reduces to less than .
he a lower temp in ) Dr. R. A. Smith on the Examination of Air .
[ Dec. 13 , ( 6 ) We have seen in ( 4 ) that metals may be deposited on a thermometer bulb and then deprived of a determinate part of their electrostrictive power , and that there is an experimental possibility of depositing them with none of this eflect .
We are therefore in a position to compare , one with the other , the two states of the same metal .
The electrostricted metal , as may have been the case , to more than a hundred atmospheres ' compression ) must oppose the effect of a solvent much more tb which is soft and no longer the subject of electrostriction .
In other words , a gramme of the former should require more of a to dissolve it than should the latter , under the same conditions .
But this excess corresponds to a -nown amount of electroeffect , which , again , is known in atmospheres pressure .
We ought therefore to be in a position to measurs chemical eifect in atmospheres pressure .
My best thanks are due to Professor Sir William Thomson for the loan of an Andrews 's ratus ; to Professor George Forbes , for a pressure machine ; and to Mr. W. H. Walenn for much practical advice in connexion with electro-metallurgy .
II .
The Examination of Air By R. ANGUS SMITH , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received August 1877 .
It is now many years since I first began to examine air so as to obtain decidedly those bodies which have from the earliest times been supposed to exist in it , ging with them , on occasions , some of the worst resuIts .
About eight years ago ( that is , in 1869 ) , after giving a short summary of some of my work in the Journal of the Scottish JMeteorological Society , I used these words:\mdash ; " " For a satisfactory investigation of the subject , one must look to the multiplication of these experiments , and perhaps to the establishment of a department at some Observatories for Chemical Climatology Meteorology Afterwards , in 1872 , I published an octavo volume on Chemical Climatology , embodying many.of my results , and intended to be a beginning of work to be by a public body .
Indeed some of vork was done whilst I acting under the published in Government Beports .
often my tention to begin a ement which might result in it fuller recognition the claims of Chemical Climatology ; but I have not gone further than of it to Mr. Scott , and proposing it to the Local Government Board , the time when I published the proposal alluded to ; at least I may say 1 have not gone further in a distinct public manner .
I should been glad had my ork oaused this country a beginning such as has been made the } tory of JIlont Souris , at , or at least resembling it ; and I blame myself for not

