" On the supposed Existence of Metamorphoses in the Crustacea .
" By J. O. Westwood , Esq. , F.L.S. and Secretary to the Entomological Society .
Communicated by J. G. Children , Esq. , Sec. R.S. The author refers the principal modifications of form which occur during the progressive development of animals to the three following heads : 1st , that of an animal produced from the egg in the form which it is destined to retain through life , its only change consisting in a series of moultings of the outer envelope , attended merely by an increase of size , and not by the acquisition of new organs ; 2ndly , when the animal , at its exclusion from the egg , exhibits the form which it continues to possess , subject to a series of moultings , during several of the last of which certain new organs are gradually developed ; and , 3rdly , when the form of the animal , at its exclusion from the egg , is totally different from that under which it appears at the later periods of its existence ; such change of form taking place during two or three of its general moultings , and consisting , not only in the variation of the form of the body , but also in a complete change in the nutritive and digestive systems , and in the acquisition of various new organs .
This last phsenomenon peculiarly characterizes what is termed a metamorphosis .
It is the received opinion among naturalists that the Crustacea do not undergo metamorphoses , properly so called , and that the trans ?
formations they exhibit consist merely in the periodicai shedding of the outer envelope .
The object of the present paper is to establish the correctness of this opinion , in opposition to that of Mr. J. V. Thompson , who has laid claim to the discovery that the greater number of the animals belonging to the class Crustacea actually undergo metamorphoses of a peculiar kind , and of a different character from those of insects .
Mr. Thompson 's views are founded upon some circumstances which he has observed in certain animals of the genus Zoea of Bosc , and which have been recorded by Professor Slabber , and which have led Mr. Thompson to believe that , of these animals , some were the young of the Cancer Pagurus , or common crab , and others the young of the Astacus Pagurus , or common lobster ; and these views are supposed by him to be corroborated by the annual peregrinations of the land crabs to the sea-side , for the purpose of depositing their eggs , rendered necessary by the aquatic habits and conformation of the young .
The author proceeds to examine at length the arguments on which Mr. Thompson has founded these opinions , and adduces his reasons for concluding that they are erroneous , and that no exception occurs to the general law of development in the Crustacea , namely , that they undergo no change of form sufficiently marked to warrant the application to them of the term metamorphosis .

