]\gt ; [ 351 ] X. On Hyperjacobian Surfaces and Curves .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treas .
oeived Apri123 , \mdash ; Road May 17 , 1877 . .
Introductory .
IN a paper published in the 'Mathematische Annalen ' ( vol. .
p. 459 ) , BRILL has discussed the question of curves having three-point contact with a doubly infinite pencil of curves ; and in particular he has investigated some of the properties of the curve passing through all the points of contact with the individual curves of the pencil .
In the same Journal ( vol. .
p. 221 ) of Kiel has applied a method similar to that of BRILL with partial success to the question of curves .
four-point contact with a triply infinite pencil .
Some formulae , however , given in my paper " " On the Sextactic Points of a Plane Curve\ldquo ; ( Phil. Tlans .
1865 , p. 657 ) have proved to be directly applicable to both questions .
An application of them to BRILL'S problem will be found in the 'Comptes Rendus ' for 1876 ( 2nd semestre , p. 627 ) , and a solution of KREY'S problem in the 'Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society for the same year ( vol. viii .
p. 29 ) .
The present subject was in the first instance suggested by the foregoing papers ; and from one point of view it may be regarded as an attempt to extend the question to the case of surfaces ; viz. to determine a curve which shall pass through the points of contact of a surface with certain surfaces to a pencil , and to investigate some of its properties .
From a slightly different point of view , however , it may be considered as an extension of two ideas , viz. first , that of the Jacobian surface , or locus of the points whose polar planes with regard to four surfaces meet in a point ; and secondly , that of the Jacobian curve , or locus of points whose polar planes with regard to three surfaces have a right line in common .
More particularly , commencing with the facts , first , that if a surface of the form touch a surface , the point of contact is a point on the Jacobian , and secondly , that if a surface of the form , touch a surface , the point of contact is a point on the Jacobian curve , I have endeavoured to extend them to higher degrees of contact .
Consider , then , a surface of the degree , and other surfaces , .
all of the degree , where is in general different from .
Let the first differential coefficients of , .
be thus expressed : ( 1 ) , when the number of surfaces is equal to that of the variables , the determinant ( 2 ) is called the Jacobian of , and is usually nated by the formula ( 3 ) If , however , the number of surfaces be less by unity than that of the variables , the first differential coefficients ( 1 ) will form the matrix .
( 4 ) from which there may be derived four determinants , whereof , however , two only are independent .
Any two of these will represent surfaces , which may be called Jacobian ( more strictly Hypojacobian ) surfaces ; and their intersection , the Jacobian curve of the system .
The pair of surfaces , or their curve of intersection , may conveniently be designated by the formula ( 5 ) Again , if , be any derivatives of beyond the first , we may , by means of them , form from the system of surfaces , .
the following matrix:\mdash ; .
( 6 ) : : : : : : in which it is to be understood that the number of surfaces is such that the number of columns exceeds that of the lines by unity .
From this matrix two independent determinants may be formed ; and the surfaces which they represent may , in conformity with previous nomenclature , be called the Hyperjacobian surfaces , and their intersection the Hyperjacobian curve of the system .
These will be designated by the formula ( 7 ) The principal properties of the Jacobian surface ( 2 ) , and of the Jacobian curve ( 5 ) are known ; and the object of the present paper is to investigate some of the properties of the Hyperjacobian surfaces and curves .
The surfaces and curves ( 5 ) are in themselves independent of any particular mode.of origination ; but they are here considered as arising out of the contact of the surface MR. W. SPOTTISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVES .
353 with a surface passing through the intersection of and ; or , say , with one or more particular surfaces of the singly infinite or one-fou pencil , where a and are constants .
For the equations expressing the condition of contact between and will enable us to eliminate the ratio a : in two ways , and give rise to the curve .
These equations , combined with , will suffice to determine the coordinates of the points of contact ; and if the values so determined be substituted in the equation , the values of a : , that is , the particular surfaces of the pencil for which such contact obtains , will be found .
Similarly , the Jacobian ( 2 ) may be considered as ansing out of the contact of the surface with the doubly infinite or two-fold pencil , Again , by selecting suitable derivatives of , for the terms , .
the Hyperjacobians ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) may be considered as arising from contact of higher degrees than common ( or two-branch ) contact between and some of the surfaces of the pencil And we shall in each such case have three equations , viz. , and the equations of the curve , which will give the values of the coordinates of the points of contact .
These values , substituted in the equation for , will determine one of the ratios a : : .
, and thereby a pencil ( whose multiplicity is less by unity than that of the given pencil ) , for which the contact obtains .
The propelties here considered are those which appertain to the points , if any , ough which all the surfaces pass , or , as they may be termed , the principal points of the system ; and consist mainly in the nature of the contact of the Hyperjacobian surfaces with the surface , and the multiplicity of the Hyperjacobian curve at the points in question .
The present investigation extends to the cases of two-branch contact of the given surface with a one-fold and with a two-fold pencil , and of three-branch contact with a four-fold pencil .
In the latter case , notice is also made of some properties appertainin to the points , if any , where all the surfaces touch one another , or , as they may be termed , the secondary points of the system .
In particular , it is shown that , in the case of common , or two-branch contact and a one-fold pencil , the Jacobian curve has a double point at the principal points ; while in the case of three-branch contact and a four-fold pencil , the Hyperjacobian curve has a triple point at the same points . .
The Jacobian Surfaces and Curve of one-fold pencil .
Consider a surface of the degree , and two other surfaces , each of the degree , where is in general different from ; also the one-fold pencil of surfaces , ( 1 ) where a and are constants .
If and have common , or two-branch contact , we shall have , beside ( 1 ) , the following conditions , viz. , ( 2 ) where is indeterminate .
If for there be substituted its value given by ( 1 ) , these equations will serve to eliminate the ratios a : in two ways ; and by this means we shall obtain two equations in , which , being independent of , will hold good for any particular surfaces of the pencil , and will consequently represent a curve passing through all the points of contact of the surface with the pencil .
The resultants , combined with the equation , will determine the coordinates of all the poin ts of contact ; and the particular surfaces of the pencil which actually touch will be found by substituting successively the values of , so determined , in the equation ( 1 ) , and thence deducing the corresponding values of the ratio a : The two resultants may be represented by the following formulae:\mdash ; .
( 3 ) in which represent the four determinants which can be formed from the matrix ( 3 ) by the omission of each of the four columns in succession .
Of these , of course , two only are independent ; and they represent , as mentioned in the Introduction , the Jacobian curve of the system .
The Jacobian curve presents some peculialities at the principal points of the system , .
at the points where In order to examine them , it will be convenient to transform the expressions ( 3 ) as follows:\mdash ; , or , putting , the above expression takes the form , suppose .
More generally , let ( 4 ) , are the determinants formed from the matrix ( 4 ) by omitting the columns two and two in the usual order , viz. 2 , 3 ; 3 , 1 ; 1 , 2 : 1 , 4 ; 2 , 4 ; , 4 .
Also let MR. W. SPOTTISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVE8 .
355 abbc , dd , d ( 5 ) , . .
are the determinants formed from the matrix ( 5 ) , by the first column ( on that account marked by the asterisk * ) , and omitting the four others , and two , in the same order as before .
We may then form the .
system:\mdash ; ( 6 ) any two of which may be regarded as the equations of the curve in question .
By means of these equations it may easily be shown that at the principal points each of the surfaces ( 6 ) , or say each of the surfaces ( 7 ) touches , or has two-branch contact with U. For , on the first equation of ( 6 ) , we obtain But , on reference to ( 5 ) , it is clear that at the points in question or more generally . .
( 8 ) Hence ; in other words , the surface touches at the principal points of the system .
Still more generally , we may write , for the whole group , the following formula , viz. ( 9 ) , which expresses the fact that , at the principal points of the system , each of the surfaces ( 7 ) has a two-branch contact with U. It remains to show that the same is the case with each of the surfaces , S. Since each of the expressions for vanishes at the points under consideration , we have But on multiplying the first of these equations by and the second by , and subtracting , we obtain But , since , this reduces itself to .
By a similar applied to the other equations , and by writing , we should obtain : : : : , ( 10 ) : : : : : Hence each of the surfaces has two-branch contact with at the principal points of the system .
In other words , each of the Jacobian surfaces touches the surface , and consequently they touch one another at the principal points of the system .
At the same points the Jacobian curve therefore has a node , and along each of its two branches the contact of the Jacobian surfaces is three-pointic .
It should here be noticed that if all the surfaces are of the same degree , .
if then , and consequently ; ( 11 ) so that , in this case , the Hessian of each Jacobian surface vanishes at the principal points ; in other words , the principal points are parabolic points on the Jacobians . .
The Hyperjacobian and Curve of a two-fold Pencil .
Consider the surface , as before ; the three surfaces ; and the pencil . . . .
( 1 ) Now , it is well known that if two surfaces touch one another , the curve of intersection has a double point at the point of contact , and that along each of the branches the contact is three-pointic .
The formulae for determining the directions of these two branches are as follows .
Adopting the notation of my memoir , ' On the Contact of Surfaces\ldquo ; Phil. Trans. , in which , are arbitrary constants , and MR. W. SPOTTISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVES .
357 ( 2 ) ; then the required formulae will be , . . . .
( 3 ) the last of which , being a quadratic in , will determine th directions sought .
If the value of V given by the equation ( 1 ) be inserted in ( 3 ) , we may eliminate the ratios a : in two different ways .
The resultants will be the Hyperjacobian faces , and their intersection the Hyperjacobian curve .
The two independent results may be comprised in the formula ' ( 4 ) a Among these , the expressions may be combined in the same manner as the corresponding expressions in ; and if we then write ( 5 ) , .
( 6 ) we may take instead of the four expressions , the six , .
, . . . .
( 7 ) and any two of these equated to zero , or any one of them combined with , will serve for the two equations required .
From these it is easy to see that , in the same way as in , it may be shown that the Hyperjacobian surfaces touch the surface at the principal points of the system .
But in this case we may carry the question of the contact of the Hyperjacobians a step further .
In fact , bearing in mind that if be any two rational , integral , and homogeneous functions of , the nature of the operation is such that , ifwe put , ( 8 ) then .
( 9 ) This being so , if we put fflb ( 10 ) it follows that .
( 11 ) If , then , we operate with upon the equation , and put for the decree of in , we shall obtain the following result:\mdash ; .
Substituting for from the equations , we find . . . .
( 12 ) But if represent the degree of it is easily seen that , or ; so that the coefficient of will be .
Again , omitting terms which vanish with , and , for brevity , writing down only the first line of each determinant , we find , where the operations , .
are supposed to affect all the columns which follow them ; thus : This being so , ( 13 ) This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , This being so , MR. W. SPOTTISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVES .
359 But , writing it in full , the first term of this , a since is supposed to vanish .
Hence .
( 14 ) So that , substituting in ( 12 ) , we finally find ( 15 ) If the of be double that of , . .
, .
if , the last term of this expression will vanish , and ; and the equation ( 15 ) will be identical with the equation for determining the two branches of three-point contact of with at a principal point of the system .
But ( 15 ) has been formed on the supposition that satisfies the equation , viz. the equation for determining the two branches of thre-epoint contact of with , at the same point .
Hence , in the case where and at the principal points of the system , the branches of three-point contact of and coincide with those of with U. It is moreover clear that a similar process may be applied to the functions , . .
, since they are all of the form , .
, and that similar results will be obtained .
And a transformation similar to that adopted in will show that the same theorem holds good for the surfaces , as for the surface T. It follows also , as in , that the parabolic points of coincide with those of ; and also that when , the parabolic points of the Hyperjacobian surfaces generally coincide with the principal points of the system .
It is perhaps worth while to calculate the Hessian of the Hyperjacobians at the principal points of the system .
And it will be observed that the following calculation applies to all functions which can be expressed in the form .
In the first place , formin the Hessian ( say ) of the left.hand side of this equation , and writing down only the first lines of the determinants , we find , differentiating the right-hand side of the same equation , we obtain : : : Hence . .
: : : . . . .
, 1 But if , represent the degrees of , respectively , we have : : : : But if be of the same form as in this section , or of any form having as its first four columns , then at the principal points ; and consequently all the terms of this column will vanish except the fifth , which will .
Further , if we operate in a similar manner upon the lines , viz. if , for line 6 , we write line 1line 2line 3line 4 line 6 , the whole expression will , . . . .
MR. W. TISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVES .
361 Similarly , at the points in question , being of the form indicated above , : : Hence , finally , the expression sought That is to say , at the principal points the Hessian of vanishes with that of U. S4 .
Byperjacobian Surfaces and Curve of a four-fold Pencil .
Consider as before the surface , and the four-fold pencil . . . .
( 1 ) If we now form the conditions for three-branch contact between and , we shall be able to eliminate the ratios a : in two different ways , and thus deduce as before the Hyperjacobian curve .
In order to form the expressions required , it will be convenient to write ( 2 ) we shall then have for the Hyperjacobian curve the following expression:\mdash ; , . .
cwckdd nILL nJMM n ( 3 ) : : : : : and it is not difficult to see that , by a transformation similar to that used in , we may write .
( 4 ) and consequently that ; ( 5 ) that is to say , the Hyperjacobian surfaces touch the given surface at the principal points , and that the Hyperjacobian curve has a node at those points .
Again , a transformation similar to that employed in S 3 will give . . . .
( 6 ) But it is to be observed that a similar process would have led to the relations , ( 7 ) as well as to the corresponding relations with the suffixes , 1 ; 1 , 1 respectively .
These show that , in the case considered before , viz. where , the Hyperjacobian sulfaces have three-branch contact with the given surface , and consequently with one another , at the principal points .
At the same points the Hyperjacobian curve will have a triple point . .
Nature of the Contact at the Secondary Points of the System .
We have hitherto considered the degree of the contact of the Hyperjacobian surfaces , and the nature of the points on the Hyperjacobian curve , at the principal points of the system .
Suppose that , at some of the principal points , the surfaces , . . .
not only meet , but touch one another ; and let these points be called the points of the system .
When this is the case we shall have the relations ' . . . .
( 1 ) Suppose now that have the same values as in , and that represents a determinant containing the first four columns ; say , let . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) .
W. SPOTTISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVES .
363 It is then , in the first place , clear that in virtue of these relations we may , at the points in question , regard any two of the first four columns of the determinant as , a un facteur pres , equal to one another ; and , consequently , any derivative of in which any two of those first four columns remain unaffected will ipso facto vanish .
Hence , for our present purpose , we shall have . . . . .
( 3 ) Also , if we write for , then But vanishes for the same reason as ; hence operating upon the first derivative of the equation , viz. upon the equation an , putting for the degrees of respectively , we shall obtain ( 4 ) But since contains the columns , it follows that must contain either the column , which vanishes , or two of the columns , any two of which been shown to be , a un facteur pres , identical .
Hence . . . .
( 5 ) Also , since contains the three columns , it follows that ; . . . . .
( 6 ) and we may therefore conclude from ( 4 ) that in the present.case ; ( ) that is to say , at the secondary points of the system the Hyperjacobian surfaces have four-branch contact with the given surface , and consequently with one amother ; and the Hyperjacobian curve has a quadruple point at these points .
It does not , however , appear that the contact between the Hyperjacobian surface and the given surface is more than four-branched .
This will be seen from the following process , which , although leading to only a negative result , is perhaps worth placing on record on account of the peculiarity of the algebraical result .
Operating with upon the equation , we obtain MR. W. SPOTTISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVES .
Operating a second time : But , in virtue of ( 3 ) and ( 6 ) , ; ( 8 ) and consequently .
( 9 ) ( writing down only the first lines of the determinants ) , since ; or , omitting terms which vanish , . .
But , . .
; and of these terms vanishes identically , and , . . .
contains the three columns ; so that will contain two of them , and will consequently vanish .
But if we retain only terms which contain not more than two of the columns and which , after the operations , will consequently contain only one such column , we shall have , . . .
, . . .
and consequently . .
, . . .
FR .
W. SPOTTISWOODE ON HYPERJACOBIAN SURFACES AND CURVES .
365 But since col .
col .
, it follows that col .
col .
; so that the expression .
will vanish .
The same will obviously be the case with the results of and on the same expression ; and we may , in fact , conclude as follows:\mdash ; . . . . . . . .
Moreover , Hence , finally , ( 11 ) Collecting the various terms , we find But since degree of degree of degree of consequently : Hence , in the case considered before , viz. where , . . . . .
( 12 ) where has the same relation to that has to P. But since can in no case vanish , it follows that the Hyperjacobian surfaces of a fourfold pencil cannot in general have more than four-branch contact with the given surface at the secondary points of the system .

