Light Vibrations in a Magnetic Field .
31 source of light , which has been recently investigated by Messrs. Humphreys and Mohler .
The photographs referred to in this communication were taken with a spark source of light placed between the pole pieces of a good electromagnet of the ordinary U-shape , for the use of which I am indebted to the kindness of the Right Rev. Monsignor Molloy .
With this magnet I was able to obtain a field of about 25,000 C.G.S. units , and this separated the side lines of the triplets in the violet line 4678 of cadmium to a distance of 056 mm. apart .
The same separation takes place in the triplet given by the violet line 4680 of zinc , so that in the case of these lines we may infer in round numbers that a magnetic field of 20,000 C.G.S. units strength produces a difference of wave-length of one Angstrom unit between the side lines of the triplet , i.e. , a separation equal to one-sixth the difference of wavelength between the two D lines of sodium .
For iron the separation is about half this amount in the case of several lines .
\lt ; ;Note on the Connection between the Faraday Rotation of Plane of Polarisation and the Zeeman Change of Frequency of Light Vibrations in a Magnetic Field .
" By Geo. Fras .
FitzGerald , F.R.S. , F.T.C.D. Received March 2 , 1898 .
( Being Notes of a Contribution to the Discussion of Mr. Preston 's Paper above , read January 20 , 1898 .
) The rotation of the plane of polarisation of light in a magnetic field is due to the velocity of propagation of light circularly polarised in one direction being different from that of light circularly polarised in the opposite direction .
The Zeeman effect is due to a difference in the frequency of vibration of these circularly polarised waves .
What is required is to connect the frequency of vibration with the velocity of propagation.^ All modern theories of dispersion connect these two quantities .
The velocity of propagation of light in transparent media is now universally considered to be determined in part by what may be # From an abstract of a paper by M. Becquerel , in the c Comptes Rendus ' of last year , I understand him to view the Faraday effect as due to a carrying round of the light vibrations by matter rotations .
This is quite in accordance with the view sometimes held as to refraction , namely , that it is due to the waves being propagated through the molecules more slowly than through the ether .
The dynamical theory of these views is difficult on account of the smallness of the molecules in comparison with the length of the waves .
M. Becquerel 's view , as I understand it , makes the Faraday effect depend on a change of frequency of rotation of the waves in matter rather than on their velocity of propagation , and is consequently quite at variance both with the commonly received theory and with the one put forward in this note .
Prof. G. F. FitzGerald .
.called the syntony of the matter and light vibrations , and is consequently dependent on the frequency of the matter vibrations .
In most substances the dispersion is controlled within the visible \#187 ; spectrum by a great absorption band in the ultra-violet , this band i representing a possible frequency of vibration of the molecules , of ( .
that part of the molecules which affects the ether , be it electrons or ; i something which simulates the actions ascribed to electrons .
If It owing to any cause this absorption band be changed in position , i.e. , d the frequency of the molecular vibrations be altered , the dispersion j of the medium will be changed , and with it the velocity of propaga- h tion of light within the visible spectrum .
Now Zeeman has shown li that in a magnetic .
field the frequency of vibration of molecules producing light circularly polarised in one direction is different from I that of molecules producing light circularly polarised in the opposite \#166 ; direction , and that consequently the absorption bands for molecules 1 in a magnetic field for oppositely circularly polarised waves will 1 differ .
Hence we conclude that the velocity of propagation of 1 oppositely polarised waves within the visible spectrum will differ , 1 and that is the Faraday effect .
Hence these two phenomena are 1 directly connected with one another , independently of any other than S general dispersion theory , i.e. , independently of any theory of 1 electrons , such as Lorentz has shown will explain the Zeeman 1 effect .
If we introduce such a theory , and use it to explain the 1 Faraday effect upon the lines now laid down , we arrive at the inter- 1 esting conclusion that before the Zeeman effect was observed the Faraday effect would have shown that in the majority of substances 1 we must assume the ether vibrations to be due to the motion of a negative electron .
In substances with a negative Faraday effect , 1 such as some magnetic bodies , we may conclude either ( the ether 1 vibrations are due to a 'positive electron , or ( 6 ) the absorption band j controlling the dispersion is in the ultra-red , or ( c ) the cause of the 1 Faraday effect may be due rather to a difference of intensity of the 1 absorption band for oppositely circularly polarised vibrations than j to a difference of frequency .
This latter alternative is in some ways j the most consonant with the usual theory as to the difference j between paramagnetic and diamagnetic bodies .
If we proceed to calculate what amount of Faraday effect might 1 e expected from the observed value of the Zeeman effect , we are 1 met by the difficulty of obtaining data .
We require to know , for j some one or more substances , the amount of the Zeeman effect , the j amount o the Faraday effect , and the ordinary dispersion of the su stance or light .
The only gas ( and it is only in gases that the j Zeeman effect has been observed ) for which the dispersion and haraday effect are well ascertained , is air , and for it the amount of the Zeeman effect has not been published .
In preparation , however , j Light Vibrations in a Magnetic Field .
for the data , it may be interesting to write down shortly the equations which , upon Lorentz 's theory as to the cause of the Zeeman effect and Larmor 's theory as to dispersion , we may expect to hold* Assuming , then , that the electric displacement in the medium is partly due to the electric force and partly to the displacement of electrons , we may write for its components in the wave face supposed plane and perpendicular to z = 0 , / = KP+e\#174 ; , g = KQ , + ey , where P , Q are electric force , e the electron , and y are coordinates that measure the displacement of this latter .
From these and the usual equations connecting magnetic and electric force we get for the medium KP + ac=\amp ; 5 ' + For the motion of the matter , if m be the mass of whatever moves with the electron , matter or effective inertia of ether , and H be the component of the magnetic force normal to the wave , and 1 : the coefficient of restitution of the matter displacement which controls its free period , mx-\-kx \#151 ; eP + eHy , = eQ \#151 ; It is to be observed that if we assume the motion periodic these equations can be reduced to the form that Drudef and Leathern* have shown to lead to results that agree with the observations on the effects of magnetised media on the transmission and reflection of tight .
If we substitute in these equations what obviously solves them , the equations of a right- or left-handed circularly polarised wave of frequency n = p/ 277- , and wave-length X = 2r/ qte and whose amplitude in x and y is a , and in P and Q is A , we get ( KA + ea)_p2 = A a ( mp2 \#177 ; eH .
p \#151 ; + eA = 0 .
If we substitute for k \#151 ; mp02 , where p0 is a measure of the frequency of the free period corresponding to the forces kx , ky which have been assumed above to control the motion of the electron , we get for the velocity of propagation = V-2 = K+e4 and A a _ \#151 ; e_____ A \#151 ; m(p"\#151 ; pd ) \#177 ; eVLp * Larmor , ' Pliil .
Trans. , ' A , 1897 .
f ' Wied .
Ann. , ' 1896 .
% ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1897 .
Light Vibrations in a Magnetic Field .
These enable us to calculate the dispersion of the substance in termi of the difference of velocity of propagation of waves of oppositely circularly polarised light .
To get approximate formulae in terms of quantities that can be observed , we have the refractive index V0/ V , When V0 is the velocity in vacuo and p = 2irVj\ .
Assuming that X0/ X , is small , i.e. .
that the dispersion is due to an absorption band far up in the ultraviolet , we get , writing p for e/ m , " 2 _ 2 I -1- ep2^0i TT * ~M ' +4^\#177 ; 8 The second term on the right-hand side of this equation gives the ordinary dispersion , while the third term gives the Faraday rotation .
The first term p0 is given by Po2 = K^.+ Sg , and is , as Mr. It armor has pointed out , composed of two parts , the first being essentially refraction and the second dispersion .
In the case of air , it is possible to compare this equation roughly with observation .
The equation is of the form 2 i ^ _L .
\#174 ; tt , + Xi\#177 ; X-2.V0 We may estimate a from the dispersion in air , and it is approximately 1*8 x 10-14 .
The equation gives for the two absorption bands that exist instead of p\#151 ; po , Po-Pi = PPi .
H , p02-p22 = Pp3 .
H , Pi\#151 ; Pi = p. H. So that , if Bp be the difference of frequency for unit magnetic force , I dpo = p. Hence , foi the difference of refractive index of two circularly !
polarised rays , we have 1 fiB/ i pH a X 27tV0 a X 2 ttVo **r .
; H. Assuming , what is certainly not accurately true , that / , is the same !
or a ines , an taking that Mr. Preston 's estimate for some lines of !
app les o oxygen , namely , that 1 A.U. change of wave-length is !
produced by a field o\#163 ; 20,000 C.G.S. units of magnetic force , we get-J V \#151 ; 4 X 10-u .
On artificial temporary Colour-blindness .
35 The observed rotation in oxygen gives a value for this of 3'5 X 10-u , so that it is about equal to the calculated value .
The discrepancy may be due to the fact that p is not the same for all spectral lines , and we could not reasonably expect to yet an accurate result by assuming that the Zeeman effect in zinc ^an be used in calculating the Faraday effect in oxygen .
On the i whole I think the calculation shows that what must be a vera causa for a Faraday effect is the whole cause of it .
From the mere fact that rotatory polarisation is approximately inversely as the square of the wave-length and consequently vanishes for long waves , it follows that it is essentially a dispersion phenomenon .
" On artificial temporary Colour-blindness , with an Examination of the Colour Sensations of 109 Persons .
" By George J. Burch , M.A. Communicated by Professor Gotch , F.R.S. Received February 5 , \#151 ; Read February 17 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) By exposing the eye for a sufficient length of time to bright sunlight in the focus of a burning glass behind suitably chosen transparent screens , it is possible to induce over the whole retina a t condition of temporary colour-blindness .
After red light the observer is for some minutes completely red-blind , so that scarlet geraniums appear black and roses blue , while yellow flowers seem various shades of green , and purple flowers look violet .
The same mistakes are made in sorting Holmgren 's wools as by the red-blind .
\#171 ; Temporary violet blindness may be brought about by using a tank of ammonio-sulphate of copper .
While it lasts , violet wools look black and purple flowers crimson , but the green foliage appears of a richer tint than usual .
The recovery from violet blindness is very slow .
Green blindness may be brought about by exposing the eye to light through three thicknesses of green glass .
The colour-scheme of the landscape during this condition is that of a picture painted with vermilion , flake-white , and ultramarine , variously blended .
Purple blindness may be produced by a combination of films stained with magenta and aniline violet , by which the green is | absorbed .
During purple blindness the vision is practically monoid chromatic , no colour being visible but green .
If one eye is rendered purple-blind and the other green-blind , the i observer sees all objects in their natural colours but with a curiously ' exaggerated perspective due to the difficulty of combining the o images perceived by one eye with those visible to the other .

