884.1 Microscopic Structure of some JRocks from the Andes .
241 II .
" Notes on the Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from the Andes of Ecuador , collected by E. Whymper , F.R.G.S. No. I. Pichincha .
" By Professor T , G. Bonnet , D.Sc .
, j F.R.S. Received January 25 , 1884 .
| During1 his adventurous journey in the Andes of Ecuador in December , 1879 , and the earlier months of 1880 , Mr. E. Whymper succeeded n ascending several of the highest mountains , and collected a considerable series of rock specimens , which he has entrusted to me for examination .
Although descriptions of rocks from this district have already been published by some eminent petrologists on the Continent , yet , as Mr. Whymper 's collections were made with great care , and specimens were taken in numerous instances from localities never before touched by the hand of man , I have thought it better to make ; my notes as far as possible complete , and so have occasionally included ( specimens of which some account may have appeared in foreign scientific periodicals .
Probably no collection has hitherto been described which either has been so extensive or has consisted of specimens with the localities more exactly determined .
In making these notes I think it better to group the specimens i geographically rather than mineralogically , so as to give successively a synoptic view of the products of each volcano , and I select as the subject of the first of a short series of papers the rocks from Pichincha , although from its proximity to Quito , and its accessibility , it is one of the best known of the Ecuadorian Andes , because the collection from this mountain is a comparatively large one , and contains a considerable number of well-preserved specimens .
Pichincha , according to Mr. Whymper , is a dormant and nearly extinct volcano , lying to the north-west of Quito , which city is built almost on the extremities of its eastern slopes .
To quote his words , From the south , north , and east ( I have not seen the mountain from the west ) Pichincha has the appearance of a range rather than a cone .
It rises into several well-marked , but not bold , peaks , the principal of which are Guagua-Pichincha , the highest point , which by my barometrical-mercury observations is 15,918 feet ( 15,706 Reiss and Bttibel A ) , and Rucu-Pichincha , which is only a few hundred feet lower . !
' ^ " The summits of the mountains Pichincha , Atacatzo , and Corazon lie almost in a direct line , and Illiniza* is only slightly out of it .
* Atacatzo , 14,892 feet ( Reiss and Stiibel , mere .
bar .
) .
Corazon , 15,871 feet { Whymper , mere .
bar .
) .
Illiniza , 17,405 feet ( Reiss and Stiibel , A ) .
Quito \t/ entral Plaza ) , 9,363 feet ( Whymper , mere , bar .
, mean of many observations ) ; Quito ( uncertain in what part of city ) 5 9,350 feet ( Reiss and Stiibel , mere , bar .
, mean of many observations ) .
242 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
Notes on the [ Jan. 31 The two northern mountains in themselves assume the appearance o small ranges .
The two southern are peaked , hut have not the cone like aspect of Cotopaxi or Sangai ( the only really active volcanoes o ?
Ecuador ) .
Each mountain is separated by well-marked depression the lowest points of which in each case lie about midway between tht summits .
Thus , though the four mountains may be considered part oi a range , they are all well marked off one from another , and are independent ; the two northern being sufficiently large to assume for themselves the aspect of small ranges .
The base of Pichincha , for instance , from north to south extends over well-nigh 20 miles .
" Pichincha is said ( at Quito ) to have several craters .
I did not see any , though I was possibly in one .
We were two days camped close to the top of the mountain , but were in a fog for almost the ; whole time , so that we had no little difficulty in making sure that wej were on the true summit , and wholly failed to see the crater ori craters , though perhaps we clambered down the sides of one for about I 1500 feet .
I believe that every person who has ever been up Pichincha , or anywhere near the summit , has been much troubled by want of clearness in the atmosphere .
There appeared to me to be strong grounds for believing that there were two principal cratfers on the highest parts of the mountain , but some persons would have it that there were more than two .
Whatever the number of craters , they must be tolerably central , as I have seen all the slopes of the mountain on the south and east of the two summits mentioned above , and there are no craters upon them .
" If I had not had experience with other mountains , which rendered me cautious , from knowing how easily a cloud may mislead an observer , I should say that I have seen steam rising from behind the summit of Guagua-Pichincha while I have been viewing it at a distance .
There was , however , a considerable amount of evidence from natives living around in different localities that Pichincha is seen to * smoke , ' and various persons of greater or less credibility have affirmed that they have been to the bottom of the craters , and have seen ' fissures , smoke , and fire .
' " Snow-beds of considerable size remain upon Pichincha permanently ; , but these lie in deep fissures and ravines , and are not noticed at a distance ; hence I should scarcely think it proper to term it a snow mountain .
" The specimens from Pichincha which I have examined are twenty-eight in number .
Of these , eighteen were obtained by Mr. Whymper from a collector at Quito , and were presented to myself , the remainder were collected by him during his ascent of the mountain .
The localities-are affixed to the former set of specimens , but as some of the names are unknown to Mr. Whymper , the spots whence these specimens have been taken cannot in every case be precisely determined .
Hence I 384 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from the Andes .
243 all describe the two collections separately .
It may be remarked iat the labels indicate that in the opinion of the native collectors iere is undoubtedly a crater on Guagua-Pichincha , Of these eighteen specimens , all but one would , without hesitation , e described in general terms as " Trachytes , " and that , though \lt ; ither a dark grey in colour , could hardly receive any other name , he others are either light grey inclining to a yellowish tint , or shades f a pale red inclining to purple .
Four of these specimens bear in common the designation Guspide id Bucu-Pichincha , August 24 , 1879 .
Rucu-Pichincha , as has been aid , is the lower or middle summit , whose height , according to ieiss and Stiibel , is 15,542 feet .
Mr. Whymper informs me that the erm Guspide in Ecuador is applied equally to the bond fide summit of i , mountain , or to the general culminating mass .
These four specimens have a compact-looking matrix of a pale-reddish colour , in which sire scattered numerous little crystals of a whitish felspar .
All evidently are rather decomposed .
The first bears the additional label shiquito paso de la Guibrada " Pumi-huaico " The matrix is a warm pinkish-grey in colour , containing numerous felspar crystals , seldom exceeding 0125 inch in longer diameter , and often less , together with a few specks of a dark mineral .
To the earlier stage of consolidation belong the following minerals : ( 1 ) Felspar , commonly in crystals about 004 inch to 0'02 inch in longer diameter , frequently containing numerous comparatively large , rounded and slightly lobed enclosures iof a brown glass , and an occasional speck of ferrite .
Oligoclase , sometimes showing zonal banding , is present , but the large extinction angles of many of the crystals indicate that labradorite or anorthite , probably the former , is also abundant .
( 2 ) A pyroxenic mineral in well defined crystals ; some of these exhibit the usual outline , cleavage , and characteristics of normal augite , but several in their form , pleochroism , and mode of extinction agree with the orthorhombic mineral , lately recognised as hypersthene.* The former are frequently stained of a dark brown colour towards the exterior .
( 3 ) Some ill-defined ferruginous spots may also be seen , which sometimes appear to replace a crystal of augite , hornblende ( in one instance ) , or mica .
To the later stage of consolidation belong fairly numerous micro-liths of a plagioclastic felspar in a grey granulated base .
This , by remaining dark in all positions between the crossed Nicols , is proved to be a glass , though somewhat modified by decomposition .
The rock then is an augite-andesite with some hypersthene , and it * Messrs. Hague and Iddings , " Amer .
Joum .
Science , " vol. xxvi , p. 222 .
Mr. J. \#166 ; * H. Teall , " Q-eol .
Mag. , " Dec. ii , vol. x , p. 145 , \amp ; o. Mr. Teall identifies the mineral in the Cheviot porphyrites , and gives references to papers by Mr. W. Cross and others .
244 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
Notes on the [ Jan. 31 bears , under the microscope , a general resemblance to that fro\#174 ; La Guardette , Cantal , figured by MM .
Fouque .
and Levy , Rochet Eruptives , PI .
xxix .
Two other specimens , labelled respectively " Puerto , de Tanguieta Encillada para Nina-urm " and " Machai al fichaco de Puguampa , lado norte , " exhibit only varietal differences , so that it is needless to enter into the details of their microscopic structure .
The fourth specimen , labelled Tioloma grande paso a , is a rock of simitar character to the other , but it incloses an oval mass of darker colour and more granulated structure , which has a fairly sharp boundary , so that it somewhat resembles an inclosed pebble .
The latter is composed of a clear mineral , generally polygonal ( approximately hexagonal ) in outline , containing some minute microlithic inclosures .
This mineral gives occasional indications of zonal banding j and oscillatory twinning ; if a felspar it is difficult to assign the species ; j there is also a fair amount of a pale augite ( which has subsequently I consolidated ) , and of an iron peroxide in irregular granules , and as a staining in what appears to be the sparse remnant of a glassy base , which gives a faint indication of a fluidal structure .
I am disposed to regard the mass as a node rather than an included fragment , caught up by the melted lava .
The next group of nine specimens all bear the label Grater of Guagua-Pichincha , the more precise localities being ( I translate the Spanish terms ) ( a ) Ascent of the slopes ; ( h ) Idem ; ( e ) Idem ; ( d ) Edge of Grater , N.W. side ; ( e ) Idem , N.E. side ; ( / ) Commencement of the Descent of the Grater , S.E. side ; ( y ) Slopes of the Grater , N.E. side ; ( li ) Bottom of the Grater , near the ancient fumaroles ( a very decomposed specimen ) ; ( i ) Bottom the Crater , brink of the inferior Grater .
These specimens all bear a general resemblance to one another , and , as most of them are not very well preserved , I have had only two of them cut for microscopic examination , as I felt certain that the differences which the others might present would be only varietal , and that it was doubtful whether some would be in a fit state for examination .
These are the specimens marked ( a. ) the best preserved of the series , and ( e ) that from the summit rim of the crater , which may be regarded as about in an average state of preservation .
The former of these specimens ( a ) has a compact pale-grey matrix , in which are scattered little crystals of whitish felspar and rather elongated prisms of a mineral resembling a black hornblende , which do not exceed about O'2 inch in length , and are often less .
In the first stage of consolidation are : ( 1 ) Crystals of felspar , with regular outlines , probably in most instances labradorite ; they generally contain , though in variable quantities , microlithic inclosures .
These sometimes have a rough zonally banded arrange884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Hocks from the Andes .
245 lent , sometimes are collected in the inner part of crystals which ave a clear external band .
They are mostly a brownish glass , in which gas cavities are rather frequent ; others are belonites of a ale colour ; ( 2 ) hornblende in fairly regular crystals , with well defined cleavage , mostly of a rather dark greenish-brown colour , but Occasionally paler ; ( 3 ) granules , rather rounded in outline , of an ron oxide .
In the second stage of consolidation'are microliths of a llagioclastic felspar in a glassy base stained with opacite . ?
The second specimen presents only varietal differences from the .hove , but is less well preserved .
We may accordingly name this series hornblende-andesite .
The next two specimens are labelled Sistema de ( massif of Pichincha ) , and are distinguished from the other by having a dull-grey matrix , in which crystals of whitish felspar , not exceeding 0'2 inch ( and generally less ) , are scattered .
The better suited for examination has the additional indication Penoneo de Pamescncho , abajo de Nina-urcu.* In microscopic structure this rock is not unlike the first described : it has a glassy base , rather darkened with ferrite and opacite , and crowded with minute crystallites of felspar , in which are scattered crystals of a plagioclase , probably labradorite , with augite sand hypersthene .
It is , therefore , like the rock from Rucu-Pichincha , a hyperstheniferous augite-andesite .
The other specimen from Pichacho de los Ladrillos has a general resemblance to the last , except that it is more scoriaceous and decomposed .
I have not thought it needful to have a section made .
It is probably an augite-andesite , and very possibly contains a little hypersthene .
The last two specimens are both from Nina-Urcu .
They resemble one another and each of the other groups in some respects .
The matrix is compact , is a dull reddish colour , and in it are scattered crystals of a whitish felspar , as in the last group , and of a pyro-xenic mineral , somewhat as in the second , the general colour coming nearer to that of the , first group .
The better preserved one , which I have examined microscopically , is labelled Gerro de Candela , Encillada entre Rucu the other Rncillada al Rucu y Guagua-Pichincha .
In the former ai*e seen , in the first stage of consolidation , ( 1 ) crystals of a plagioclastic .
felspar , most , if not all , of which , from its extinction angles , is probably labradorite ; ( 2 ) crystals of normal augite ; ( 3 ) crystals of hypersthene , as above described .
Cavities and what appear to be glass enclosures are rather numerous in both the felspar and the augite .
The ground-mass appears to be a dark-brown glass , all but opaque ; but as the slide has offered difficulties to the workman , and is * Pamascucho , below Nina-urcu .
The latter name is applied by Reiss and Stubel to a point in the ridge connecting Guagua-Pichincha with Rucu-Pichincha , the elevation of which they give as 14,472 feet .
246 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
Notes on the [ Jan. 8 ] ?
thicker than the rest , it is not in a very good state for examinatioi .and crystallites may he more numerous than appear .
The collection made by Mr. Whymper himself consists of a series c specimens taken during his ascent of the highest peak or cone , Gruagua i Pichincha , including a specimen broken off the actual summit , an one specimen broken from the summit of Rucu-Pichincha , the middl or second peak of the mountain , by one of his guides , Louis Carrel The specimens from the slopes of Guagua-Pichincha form one serie with the summit rock and with the second group , described above from the same part of the massif .
Some , as might be expected , art rather decomposed , * others are vesicular\#151 ; pumiceous or slaggj varieties of the rock of which those already described are the more .compact form .
There are minor differences in the quantity of felspai and of the black pyroxenic mineral scattered through the matrix , bull these appear to me merely varietal ; hence I have only had a slice !
.cut from the specimen which was broken from the topmost crag oi Guagua-Pichincha , for this , though generally resembling the specimen^ \#166 ; described above , exhibits some slight differences .
The external surfaces of the fragment have a slightly scoriaceous aspect , and where the lichen-growth is chipped away , are of a dull grey to rusty brown colour .
The fractured faces show the matrix to be of a dull , but not dark , colour , in places slightly vesicular , the walls of the hollows being coated with a pellicle of iron-rust .
In the matrix are scattered pretty thickly whitish felspar crystals , not generally exceeding 0*2 inch in diameter , and granules or crystals of a black mineral , less than \lt ; 0*125 inch in diameter , the former being rather larger , and the latter rather smaller than the corresponding minerals in the group of specimens already described from Guagua-Pichincha .
Under the microscope we find that ( 1 ) felspar crystals of very variable size are scattered throughout the slide , the majority exhibiting polysynthetic twinning .
The boundaries generally are sharply rectilinear , but not a few of the largest have evidently been broken , and one or two show signs of .external corrosion .
Microlithic enclosures are frequent , but very variable in amount .
Some of the crystals contain a considerable number of irregular bits of brown glass , with or without granules of pyroxene ; others cavities , in which are bubbles , apparently fixed , .occupying about one-eighth of the whole volume ; others aggregates .of exceedingly minute granules , like the finest dust , possibly augite , of which mineral , if I mistake not , belonites occur .
As a rule , the smaller crystals are clearer than the larger , and the enclosures are more numerous in the inner than in the outer part , but there is \#166 ; so much variation observable that no law can be established .
It is difficult to settle the precise species of the felspar , but the general * Mr. Whymper in all his collections endeavoured to bring away a fair representation of what he saw on the mountain , rather than a series of choice specimens .
884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Andes .
247 esults of my observations are in favour of the majority being ibradorite .
( 2 .
) Hornblende .
Tbis mineral occurs in crystals , sometimes rather lore than 0'05 inch diameter .
It is usually of a strong olive-green or rownish-green colour , showing a very marked dichroism , often not Conspicuously cleaved , but occasionally exhibiting in cross-sections a jery characteristic cleavage .
Hot seldom the crystals have their out-'ines rounded , as if worn or somewhat corroded , and are black-jjordered .
Microlithic enclosures of felspar and of opacite are rather requent .
( 3 .
) A much paler and less dichroic mineral occurring arely , not black bordered .
In one case a crystal of it appears to grow in to the broken face of a hornblende crystal .
It contains microliths tf opacite but not of felspar .
The extinction angles indicate that this Jso is hornblende , but I consider it to be formed subsequently to the lark variety .
( 4 .
) Two or three clusters of a granular mineral of a jale colour , which I believe to be augite .
( 5 .
) One or two crystals which , from their dichroism and extinction , I consider hypersthene .
'6 .
) Granules of iron oxide , probably magnetite .
The interstitial natter is of a dusty grey-brown colour , and , when examined with ligh powers , appears to consist of a transparent glass crowded with minute earthy particles and specks of ferrite .
The rock then which forms the topmost crag of Guagua-Pichincha is , as our previous investigation would lead us to expect , a hornblende-andesite , though not quite so normal a specimen as some of those already examined .
The specimen broken from the highest point of Rucu-Pichincha is a compact grey rock , in very fair preservation , containing scattered crystals of a glassy felspar up to about 0'2 inch in diameter , and smaller specks of a black pyroxenic mineral .
Microscopic examination shows the felspars to be similar to those described in the last specimen , except that cavities with bubbles are almost wholly want- , ing .
Other enclosures are frequent , especially nearly colourless belonites .
The pyroxenic mineral is rather abundant : some is light brown , the rest of a greenish tint .
Some of the former is certainly augite , some of the latter hypersthene ; probably the minerals may be distinguished by their colours , but this of course cannot be fully proved .
Grains of magnetite occur as above .
The matrix is often darkened by the presence of specks of kaolin ) and ferrite , but differs from the last in being crowded with very minute lath-like crystallites of felspar .
Probably , however , a colourless base of true glass is present .
The rock then is a hyperstheniferous augite-andesite , and thus agrees with the specimens already described from this peak .
The annexed analysis* is that of a rock , apparently from some distance up the peak of Guagua-Pichincha .
Prom the description , how- * * Both .
Die G-esteins-analysen .
35 .
Analysis quoted from Abich. .
Vulk .
Ersch .
1841 .
58 .
VOL. XXXVI .
S Major A. W. Baird .
Report on the [ Jan. 3 ; ever , it would seem to be a blacker and compaeter rock than any tht I have seen , more like some of those from Antisana .
" Gruaguapichincha aus 14,238 Puss Hohe .
" Black , pitchstoni like , small albite , green augite , magnetite ( glassy andesite ) .
Si02 ... ... ... ... .
67Sp .
gr. 2*579 A1303 ... ... ... . .
13 19 Pe303 ... ... ... . .
4*74 Mn3Q3---- ... ... ___ 0 32 CaO ... ... ... ... . .
3 *69 MgO ... ... ... ... ... 3*46 K30 ... ... ... ... .
2-18 NagO ... ... ... . .
4*90 Ignition ... ... ... 0 *30 Ti03 ... ... ... ... . .
trace 99 *85 From the above descriptions , it may be , I think , fairly inferred that the maiD peak or cone of Pichincha consists chiefly of hornblende andesites , and the second summit ( Rucu-Pichincha ) of hypersthen-iferous augite-andesites ; and that there is considerable uniformity in the character of the rocks of this volcanic mountain.* Those from Antisana , which it is intended to describe in the next communication , are of a rather more varied nature .
III .
" Report on the Tidal Disturbances caused by the Volcanic Eruptions at Java , August 27 and 28 , 1883 , and the Propagations of the 'Super-tidal ' Waves .
" By Major A. W. Baird , R.E. Communicated by Lieutenant-General J. T. Walker , R.E. , F.R.S. , with a letter from the Communicator containing an Abstract of the contents of the Paper .
Received January 24 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) At the request of Major A. W. Baird , R.E. , I herewith forward for presentation to the Royal Society , a report which he has prepared on the Tidal Disturbances caused by the now famous volcanic eruptions which occurred on the 27th and 28th August last year , in the Island of Krakatoa and the Straits of Sunda , between Sumatra and Java .
For * I have seen , in collections of rocks from Hungary , specimens bearing con* siderable resemblance to those from Pichincha : for instance , an " amphibol* andesite " from Altsohl is like those of Guagua-Pichincha , and one from Blanfuss , Kremnitz , like specimens from Nina-urcu and Rucu-Pichincha .

