arrival at Ceylon ; and the results lead him to adopt the opinion that the ocean resembles the atmosphere in being , caeteris paribus , nearly of the same specific gravity throughout .
The water used in the experiment was always taken from the surface of the ocean .
The variation of specific gravity was most observable when the water was rough and agitated , and seemed in one instance diminished by heavy rain .
Dr. Davy doubts whether a modern traveller of high authority is correct in supposing that a peculiar specific gravity belongs to the water of each zone ; for in his own experiments , the water taken in latitude 0ยง 12 ' S. , and 22ยง 36 ' S. , was of similar specific gravity , as also that taken at 340 25 ' S. , and that washing the shores of Columbo .
The trials of the temperature of the air and water were , during the greater part of the voyage , made every two hours , night and day .
The variations of atmospheric temperature , says the author , follow the course of the sun .
They are pretty considerable whilst he is above the horizon , and very insignificant during the night .
At a great distance from land , and with a steady wind between and bordering upon the tropics , the diurnal variation of atmospheric temperature appeared perfectly regular ; its maximum precisely at noon , its minimum towards sunrise .
In a calm , the maximum of heat was some time after noon , and the regular law of variation is more obviously interfered with by storms and rain .
The temperature of the sea was found liable to variations nearly as great as those of the incumbent atmosphere .
In fine quiet weather , at a great distance from land , the maximum of temperature was about 3 P.M. , and the minimum towards sunrise .
It is , however , subject to irregularities .
In tempestuous weather superficial currents seem to be established in the direction of the prevailing winds , which increase or lower the temperature according as the wind is hot or cold .
Where the sea is shallow , its temperature is comparatively low ; a fact which may sometimes prove useful in indicating to the mariner the vicinity of shallows .
In approaching the Cape of Good Hope and Ceylon , the author had occasion to observe this fact : in the latter case there was a reduction of 20 on coming into soundings .
In considering the effects of currents upon the temperature of the sea , Dr. Davy particularly notices that which flows round the bank of Lagullas from the S.E. coast of Africa , and which is 10 ?
above the surrounding sea ; a difference partly referable to the banks which border the current .
The dense mist which occasionally covers the Table Mountain is considered by Dr. Davy as connected with this current , and produced by the condensation of the vapour rising from this current by a cold S.E. breeze , during which the phenomenon only happens .
This communication concludes with some general and practical inferences connected with the use of the thermometer at sea : it contains several tables of results , and of meteorological observations .
Observations on the Templerature of the Oceain and Atmosphere , and on the Density of Sea-water , made during a Voyage to Ceylon .
In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. By John Davy , I-.D .
F.R.S. Read May 22 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 275 .
] The experiments on the specific gravity of sea-water , detailed in this paper , were partly conducted at sea , and partly after the author 's

