]\gt ; Action of Nicotine other Pyridine Bases upon It is satisfactory to find that the results by the carbon-monoxide method agree closely with those hitherto obtained by the aerotonometer method .
The reasons why Fredericq and Krogh have obtained no evidence in favour of the secretion theory are also evident .
Still more satisfactory is it to find that the process of absorption of oxygen by the lungs is regulated , just as is the breathing itself , in accordance with the requirements of the organism .
But for the secretory process the blood would be very incompletely saturated during muscular work , when five , or even ten , times as much oxygen is absorbed as during rest .
During rest , on the other hand , the secretory process is not required , and would be a waste of physiological effort .
The Action of Nicotine and othe ?
' Pyridine Bases Tuscle .
By .
H. VELEY , , and A. D. WALLER , ( Received February 22 , \mdash ; Read March 10 , 1910 .
) Nicotine .
or pyridyl -methyl pyrrolidine , , best known to physiologists in this country in connection with its action on sympathetic as pointed out by Langley , is generally regarded as having little or no action upon muscle .
to recent observations of Langley the drug does , however , act upon muscle in a peculiar way , that has led him to a theoretical interpretation which we shall consider later .
Our original purpose was the simpler one of comparing upon muscle the action of nicotine and allied substances .
We have made , independently , two separate series of observations , one during September , 1908 , with nicotine tartrate , the other during September , 1909 , with the free base , following the 1nethod described in previous communications , according to which muscle is excited at intervals hout observation .
In both series , with differences of detail attributable to the fact that the tartrate in solution is probably to some extent hydrolysed , the nicotine record is unmistakably characteristic , and not presented by any other substance that we have examined .
Both in the case of the salt and in that of the base , the drug in moderate concentration produced:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Contracture with twitching .
A first diminution of contraction not reaching to complete abolition .
Drs. .
H. Veley and A. D. Waller .
Action of [ Feb. 22 , ( 3 ) A subsequent increase of contraction ) to , or even beyond , its original vaIue , he muscle remaining throughout in the nicotine solution .
( 4 ) A final gradual decline of contraction .
Typical records are as under ; the " " type\ldquo ; is characteristic and reproduces itself in our records .
FIG. 2.\mdash ; Nicotine tartrate , per cent. at .
Excitation suspended from this point to the next , so as to allow the contracture and twitching to be uncomplicated by the eifects of excitation ; the subsequent increase of contraction is well marked .
per cent. at gives no marked effect .
Other records ( not here reproduced ) , taken at various strengths of solution , were so much alike as to be hardly distinguishable apart , and altogether different from the records obtained with any other drugs .
1910 .
] cotine and other Bases upon lIuscle .
of Recorded rvations .
fficotine We find that the peculiar nicotine effect may fail to present itself at lowered temperatures , and that it can be brought out into clearer evidence at higher temperature .
The characteristic nicotine effect cannot be produced twice in the muscle ; if , e.g. , it has been brought about by immersion of a muscle in a solution of .
cenb .
nicotine , it cannot be reproduced by a second immersion in nicotine solution of ten times the strength , which simply abolishes all muscular contractility .
The characteristic effect fails to appear in the case of muscles removed from frogs had received by subcutaneous injection a lethal dose of curarine or of nicotine .
The Pyridine Bases.\mdash ; The study of nicotine naturally involves that of its parent base pyridine , as well as that of methyl pyridine or picoline and of or hexahydropyridine , the active principle of pepper .
Drs. V. H. Veley and A. D. Waller .
Action of The constitutional formulae of these several bases are as follows:\mdash ; Of these four bases we find that , as regards their action on muscle , nicotine is the most active , and piperidine about half as active as nicotine .
Picoline and pyridine have about one-tenth of the toxic power of nicotine .
This , of course , is reckoning by molecules .
The characteristic nicotine effect is altogether absent from the records of the three other pyridine bases .
To see whether it belongs to the pyrrolidine moiety , or is characteristic of the entire molecule of nicotine , it would be necessary to test the action of the former substance , but so far we have not been able to obtain it .
Summary of Observations .
Piperichne .
per oent .
Immediate abolition with contracture .
, , Gradual decline .
( Fig. 5 .
) , , Abolition in minutes contracture .
Commenced after 12 minutes ' imperfect recovsry .
( Fig. 4 .
) .
( Fig. 6 .
) , , Abolition in 3 minutes without contracture .
Recovery begins in 6 minutes and is complete .
then , , No effect .
, , No effect .
ihen , , Abolitiou in 5 minutes without contracture .
Picoline .
( Fig. 7 .
) 0.093 No effect .
, , Very gradual decline .
0233 , , Abolition in 13 minutes without contracture ; immediate recovery .
Abolition in minutes ; immediate 1910 .
] Nicotine and other Bases upon Muscle .
commercial curare was required for the complete " " curarisation\ldquo ; of average sized frog ( 20 to 30 grammes ) ; a similar effect , on a similar frog , was produced in a shorter time by the same volume of a -per-cent .
solution of Boehm 's preparation .
* The latter was thus known to be upwards of 100 times as active as the commercial product , as of by its specific action as regards blocking of the impulse nerve to ] As regards direct effects upon muscle , both preparaCions of curare were what we are accustomed to call " " htly active i.e. in -per-cent .
solution the con tractility of muscle was not abolished in half an hour ( fig. 8 ) .
Boehm 's curarine in -per-cent .
solution was rather more active than the solution of commer curare at the same concentration ( but considerably less active than nicotine at per cent. and even per cent. ) ; this difference of activity between the two samples of curare was much below the difference as judged by the specific ' ' curarisation\ldquo ; test .
The Antagonisnv of by Curarine .
Langley has pointed out the antagonism of nicotine by curare ; our nicotine and curarine experiments are confirmatory of this and bring out approximately a quantitative relation between them .
We find by immersing muscles in mixtures of nicotine and curarine solutions in which the proportion of by molecules is varied from 2 : 1 to 160 : 1 , that the typical nicotine effect is unfailingly abolished when 30 molecules of nicotine are in presence of 1 molecule curarine .
In this instance the nicotine was taken at ?
, i.e. well above the strength required for a charac effect , as , moreover , was indicated by a simultaneous control experiment .
The curarine in the mixed solution was at the concentration , i.e. far below a concentration at which curarine by itself can act upon muscle .
As shown above , curarine in does not * Langley 's " " curare\ldquo ; seems to have been weak , probably the " " pot curare\ldquo ; that has replaced " " calabash curttre\ldquo ; in the market during the last 20 years ; he antagonises 4 milligrammes nicotine by 50 milligrammes of curare , and refers to this as being two or three times the amount required to prevent the " " sciatic causing contraction of the muscle Drs. V. H. Veley and A. D. Waller .
Action of produce abolition of contraction in half hour , yet , in the mixed solution curarine in 1/ 40 of that mass , altogether effaces the effect of nicotine , This is a very strikin , case of antagonism , and as regards the proportion between the antagonistic reagents we have understated it .
Taking the mixed solution with urarine at five times the dilution , i.e. with curarine at and nicotine as before at , there is still a very considerable if not absolutely complete abolition of the characteristic nicotine effect .
Tn this case the proportion by molecules is 160 : 1 .
That this antagonism is of a peculiar , and , so to speak , specific character is borne out by experiments with other drugs , where we find that far greater proportional mass is required for the abolition of the characteristic nicotine effect .
We have tested in this connection the influence of cinchonamine .
Taking , e.g. , a mixture of nicotine at plus cinchonamine , we obtained a record exhibiting the characteristic effects of nicotine and cinchonamine , but in which the nicotine effect was less in the presence of cinchonamine than it would have been in its absence , and in which the cinchonamine effect was lessened by the nicotine .
This appears to us to indicate a state of subdivision , the muscle stuff being conjointly occupied by the two bases , nicotine and cinchonamine , as in the ordinary case of subdivision of an acid between two bases ; but the case of nicotine and curarine cannot be brought under the same category .
We have also tested mixtures of nicotine and strychnine , with proportiona 10 .
] Nicotine and other Pyridine Bases upon Muscle .
of nicotine to strychnine nicotine strychnine n ; the nicotine effect was entirely replaced by the strychnine effect .
In the proportion nicotine strychnine n the nicotine effect is not completely abolished .
We have also tested mixtures of nicotine and aconitine .
Taking a mixture of nicotine and aconitine , we found that the nicotine effect was absolutely unaltered .
With a mixture of nicotine and aconitine the nicotine effect was abolished , the record being what we should term a modified aconitine record .
With nicotine and aconitine the nicotine effect was just visible , while with nicotine and aconitine the nicotine effect was abolished .
We also tested mixtures of nicotine and quinine .
With a luixture of nicotine and quinine , we obtained a record indicative of a subdivision , with a considerable predominance of the quinine over the nicotine effect .
In the proportion nicotine : quinine the nicotine effect was not abolished , but in the proportion nicotine : quinine , the nicotine effect is unaltered ; that is to say , the effect of 10 molecules of nicotine is not oyercome by a molecule of quinine , nor that of five molecules completely so , whereas one molecule of nicotine is overpowered by one molecule of quinine .
Thus in none of these cases could we regard nicotine as onised as by curarine .
The results were such as to indicate either a subdivision of the muscle protein between two bases or the displacement of a weaker base by a stronger .
Whereas in the case of curarine we have a substance with little toxic action on muscle itself , yet of which one molecule was sufficient to very nearly abolish the effect of 160 molecules of nicotine , but it required 1 molecule of strychnine or quinine to overpower 1 molecule of nicotine ; and 1 molecule of the most powerful poison we have used , aconitine , could overpower at most 10 molecules of nicotin Langley considers that both nicotine and curare combine with some substance in the muscle itself , and that it is unnecessary to resort to the assumption of an additional effect on nerve-endings ; he finds , indeed , that the antagonism between these two poisons occurs in muscle of which the nerves have completely degenerated .
We find it difficult , in presence of the fact that curarine ( which acts powerfully on , feebly upon muscle ) does very readily antagonise the characteristic uicotine effect ( the seat of which is now in question ) , to avoid the conclusion that such nicotine effect takes place at the nerve-ending , and is there antagonised by curarine .
Drs. V. H. Veley and A. D. Waller .
Action of [ Feb. Hilworking in Langley 's laboratory and according to method , used extremely dilute nicotine solution , viz. , per cent. , approximately ( we generally used solutions of 1000 to 500 this strength , viz. and ) .
For the onism of nicotine by curare , Hill , working with the abdominis muscle , gives per cent. nicotine as antagonised by a -per-cent .
solution of curare , and per cent. as antagonised by a -per-cent .
solution of curare .
We used in our antagonism an ( per cent. ) of nicotine with curarine amounting to ( per cent. ) and per cent Following the same method , he determines by Arrhenius ' formula the temperature constant for nicotine , which corresponds with the constant by Esson 's formula .
Note 2.\mdash ; Several years ago , one of us ( A. D. made a considerable number of experiments on the isolated frog 's heart , for the purpose of comparing the activity of nicotine with that of pyridine .
The comparison failed by reason of the irregular effects exhibited by the heart .
The failure is worth mention in the present connection in illustration of our opinion that isolated muscle affords a good physiological for the comparison of toxicity .
Thus , ?
, the relative power of ether and chloroform can be estimated with far greater accuracy and uniformity of results on isolated muscle than on the isolated heart .
In a recent paper we have given the temperature constants by Esson 's formula for Alcohol ?
Chloroform Quinine ; these correspond with the Arrhenius constants : , 7930 , and 14,820 respectively .
But Hill 's paper does not contain any data or records by which it would be possible to compare his results with our own .
His conclusion is , however , the same as ours , viz. that the high value of the constant is evidence of a chemical combination between drug and muscle .
Arrhenius ' formula , as expressing variation of rate of.chemical change with temperature , has been generally adopted by writers 011 Physical and on Physiological Chemistry .
'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 39 , p. 361 .
1910 .
] Nicotine and other Pyridine upon Muscle .
It is , however , rather difficult to follow the line of reasoning on which it is based ; further , the numbers in the units and the tens of the derived constant have no real significance .
On a comparison of the constant of Esson 's equation:\mdash ; ( 1 ) with that of in the Arrhenius formula , which may be written with the same terms on the left-hand side , thus : factors of chemical change at absolute temperatures respectively ) , it appears that , or values of the constants and obtained by the two formulae for the action of the drugs : alcohol , chloroform , quinine ( Veley and Waller ) , and nicotine ( A .
Hill ) are here set forth:\mdash ; The respective rates at the highest and lowest } lres respectively have been taken for the purpose of the above comparison ; a slight experimental error in one of them account for the rather low value found in the case of chloroform .
The of temperature ( about ) within which the derived constants of the two ] are compared may at first appear to be rather limited ; but this equal .
applies in practice to most chemical changes which cannot be measured as a rule with any degree of accuracy beyond a limiting range of

