I. " On the Impregnation of the Ovum in the Stickleback .
" By W. H. RANSOM , M.D. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received October 20 , 1854 .
I purpose placing before the Royal Society in this communication , the principal results of experiments made during the months of June and July last , on the impregnation of the ovum in Gasterosteus leiurus and G. pungitius , and hope to be able to furnish a more detailed account of my observations on a future occasion .
The ovarian ovum of these fishes , at a very early stage of its development , is provided with a proper investing membrane , the future chorion .
At a later period , one portion of this membrane presents a number of cup.shaped pediculated bodies scattered over its surface , and in the centre of this part of the chorion there is a funnel-shaped depression , pierced by a canal which leads towards the centre of the egg .
In the nearly ripe ovum , the germinal vesicle occupies an excentric position with respect to the egg as a whole , but imbedded in the centre of a semi-solid accumulation of fine granular matter at that part of the surface which corresponds to the funnel-shaped depression ; so that the apex of the funnel , projecting inwards beyond the level of the inner surface of the chorion , makes a depression in the centre of , the layer of granular matter , and comes nearly into contact with the germinal vesicle .
For convenience of description , the funnel-shaped depression will now be called micropyle , and the layer of granular matter before impregnation , discus proligerus .
The germinal vesicle disappears before the ovum leaves the ovary , and no remnant of it or its spots can be seen .
A very delicate membrane invests the yelk within the chorion ; this membrane is more distinct after impregnation , or after the action of water upon an unimpregnated egg ; it may be isolated , and then exhibits a remarkable degree of elasticity .
It is not a yelk-membrane , and it will be spoken of as the inner membrane .
The layer of the yelk immediately internal to the inner membrane passing over the discus proligerus , is formed by yellowish highly refractive drops which disappear in water , undergoing some remarkable changes , and by a fluid substance which water precipitates in a finely granular form .
The principal mass of the yelk consists of a clear and very consistent albumen .
The oil is collected into a few very large drops which come up to the surface .
When the ovum escapes from the ovary , it enters a cavity which may be considered as the ovarian extremity of the oviduct , in which a considerable quantity of clear viscid fluid is previously secreted and collected , to be expelled with the ova .
More exact observation of the micropyle in the free eggs proves that the inner end of the canal is either open , or at most closed by a very delicate membrane .
When looking into the funnel from the wide mouth , the apex being in focus , a bright , clear , round or oval spot , such as an aperture would produce , is always visible .
If a section be made of the egg , and the apex brought into focus from within , the same clear spot is well seen , and the fine and regularly dotted structure of the chorion is seen to cease suddenly at the margin of the clear spot .
lThe general form of the egg after deposition is round , but it is rendered irregular by indentations caused by the pressure of other eggs .
It is inelastic , and retains impressions made in it by a needle ; and when placed in water , these characters remain for a long time if it be not impregnated , -a fact which indicates that water does not pass through the micropyle , or by imbibition through the chorion .
The viscid secretion of the oviduct which invests the eggs may defend them against the action of water , in which it does not readily diffuse or dissolve .
This secretion has an alkaline reaction .
The substance of the yelk has a decidedly acid reaction , more than enough to neutralize the alkalinity of the viscid secretion .
This reaction is , I believe , due to a peculiar organic acid , but the experiments relating to this question are not yet complete .
The seminal particles of the male continue to move for a considerable period in the viscid secretion which envelopes the ripe ova , but they very quickly become still in water .
In the act of impregnation one or more ( as many as four have been seen ) spermatozoids pass into the micropyle , and probably by their proper motion overcome the obstruction which prevents the entrance of water .
Actively moving spermatozoids may remain in contact with the chorion for eighteen minutes at least without producing any sensible change in the ovum , provided none of them enter the micropyle , but when one is seen to enter , in about a quarter of a minute a change is observable .
The changes which are observed to follow the entrance of the spermatozoids into the micropyle are the following : In about a quarter of a minute the tube is shortened , and very soon a clear space becomes visible within the chorion near the micropyle : this space , or respiratory chamber , gradually extends to the opposite pole of the egg and increases in diameter , as does also the whole ovum .
During the formation of this space the surrounding fluid enters through the micropyle , and this gradually retracts and is at length closed .
This entrance of fluid into the egg effaces the depressions , restores the round form , and makes it firm and elastic ; but does not cause any such precipitation of granular matter as is produced by its artificial introduction .
While the respiratory chamber is yet in progress of formation , the yellow drops of the superficial layer of the yelk grow pale and disappear ; the change beginning near the micropyle .
As a result of this , the whole egg becomes clearer , and the discus proligerus , which may be now more correctly denominated the germinal mass , is more distinct .
The yelk now very slowly alters its form , one surface becoming flattened ; but about fifteen or twenty minutes after impregnation a remarkable and more vivid contraction begins , causing the yelk to pass through a series of regularly recurring forms .
The contraction begins on one side near the equator , and soon forms a circular constriction which gives the yelk the figure of a dumb-bell , the longer axis of which is the polar axis of the egg .
The constriction travels towards the germinal pole , and next produces a flask-shaped figure ; this is at length lost by the constriction passing on , and the round form is regained in about a minute .
This wave reappears and travels forward again without any distinct period of rest , and I have seen these movements continue for forty-five minutes , though towards the latter part of this period they are less distinct and more limited in extent .
The germinal mass has itself during these contractions , which strongly resemble the peristaltic movements of the intestine , undergone changes in form , and has increased in bulk and distinctness .
These movements are unaffected by weak galvanic currents .
During the passage forward of each wave of contraction there is an oscillation of the whole mass of the yelk , so that its germinal pole passes once to the right and once to the left of the micropyle , to which it at first corresponded .
The plane of this oscillation may be vertical , horizontal , or inclined , but always cuts the micropyle ; it begins and ceases with the contractions already mentioned , and would seem to be a mechanical result of them .
For some time before cleavage begins , the only changes of form are the appearance of wave-like elevations and depressions along the under surface of the germinal mass , and its alternate concentration and diffusion .
Cleavage begins in about two hours after impregnation ; no embryonic cell was observed before it began , nor in any of the cleavage masses .
The inner membrane is folded in during cleavage ; it is easily seen thrown into folds at the cleft , and for this reason I do not consider it a yelk-membrane , which term would be better applied to the chorion .

