I. " Account of Experiments on the Flexural and Torsional Rigidity of a Glass Rod , leading to the Determination of the Rigidity of Glass .
" By JOSEPH D. EVERETT , D.C.L. , Assistant to the Professor of Mathematics in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor WILLIAM THOMSON , F.R.S. Received February 1 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) In these experiments a cylindrical rod of glass is subjected to a bending couple of known moment , applied near its ends .
The amount of bending produced in the central portion of the rod is measured by means of two mirrors , rigidly attached to the rod at distances of several diameters from each end , which form by reflexion upon a screen two images of a fine wire placed in front of a lamp-flame .
The separation or approach of these two images , which takes place on applying the bending couple , serves to determine the amount of flexure .
In like manner , when a twisting couple is applied , the separation or approach of the images serves to determine the amount of torsion .
The flexural and torsional rigidities , f and t , which are thus found by experiment , lead to the determination of Young 's Modulus of Elasticity , M ( or the resistance to longitudinal extension ) , and the absolute rigidity , n ( or resistance to shearing ) ; M being equal tof divided by the moment of inertia of a circular section of the rod about a diameter , and n being equal to t divided by the moment of inertia of a circular section about the centre .
The " resistance to compression , " k , is then determined by the formula 131 3k -M n and the " ratio of the lateral contraction to longitudinal extension , " a , by the formula 2n 19 The values found for the flint-glass rod experimented on were , in grammes ' weight per square centimetre , M=I614,330,000 , n =2414,170,000 , k =423,010,000 , a= 258 .
The mode of experimenting is somewhat similar to that by which Kirchhoff investigated the value of a for steel and brass ; but there are several points of difference , especially this--that the portion of the glass rod , whose flexure and torsion are measured , is sufficiently distant from the places where external forces are applied , to eliminate the local irregularities produced by their application .

