XIII .
" On the presence of Sulphocyanides in the Blood and Urine .
" By ARTHUR LEARED , M.D , R.I.A. , &amp;c. Communicated by C. HANDTIELD JONES , M.B. Cantab .
Received June 17 , 1869 .
In the course of some investigations into the composition and uses of saliva , I was led to study one of its components , sulphocyanide of potassium , in relation to its presence and action in the system , in a way that has not hitherto been done .
Treviranus , in 1814 , discovered that saliva became reddened by a persalt of iron in solution ; and the reaction was afterwards stated by Tiedemann and Gmelin to be due to the presence of sulphocyanide of potassium* .
A strange difference of opinion has nevertheless prevailed on the subject .
Thus the reaction has been supposed to be caused by a taint of the saliva from carious teeth ; whilst Bernard states that he found it took place only in the saliva of tobacco-smokers .
It is unnecessary to produce here the arguments on both sides of the question ; the weight of authority is altogether in favour of the existence of the salt in saliva .
By some of those , however , who have admitted that it is an ingredient of the secretion it has been regarded as a curiosity rather than as playing any part in the economy .
I have made numerous experiments for the purpose of satisfying myself as to the constancy with which a sulplocyanide exists in human saliva .
For this end a solution containing twenty grains of perchloride of iron in an ounce of distilled water was employed .
Such a solution is of a lightyellow colour , but it acts better than the paler solution of the persulphate of iron .
The mode of procedure was very simple .
The saliva to be tested was ejected on a surface of white porcelain , or upon a piece of white paper , and a drop of the test-solution added .
The colour which the saliva assumed was compared with a scale of four shades of red on paper , resembling those produced by the sulphocyanide of iron .
These shades were labelled " very mark , " arked , " rked , faint , " " a trace , " and corresponded approximately with the colours struck by iron in solutions of suiphocyanide of potassium of the relative strength of o1 , , r , 1 ?
x of a grain to the ounce of distilled water .
Such a scale is appended herewith .
An examination of the saliva of fifty persons taken consecutively , half being males and half females , and of ages ranging from under one year to 65 years , gave the following results : Very marked .
Marked .
Faint .
A trace .
None .
25 Males ... .
0 17 431 25 Females ... .
1 10 824 As regards the influence of age and other practical points , the numbers are insufficient for the deduction of trustworthy results .
Some points , however , which it is unnecessary to prove by tabulation , were well borne out , and these are sufficient for the present purpose .
It was established that in the saliva of the great majority of persons a red colour is struck with perchloride of iron .
It was ascertained that the existence of carions teeth is not requisite for the production of this reaction , because it occurred in many instances in which all the teeth were sound .
It was further ascertained that tobacco-smoking was not indispensable , because the colour was produced in many cases in which the individual never used tobacco .
It was also remarked that in all the cases in which the absence of the sulpho-cyanide was noted , although no definite disease was apparent , the health was feeble , and that , on the other hand , a marked reaction with iron usually corresponded with the ordinary indications of sound health .
To this subject I shall afterwards have occasion to return .
It is probable that , by means of evaporation , a sulphocyanide would in every instance have been detected in the saliva .
But for practical purposes it is assumed that when not discovered by the means described , it is not present .
The particular base combined with the sulphocyanic acid in human saliva is a matter of little importance .
It has lately been stated that it is not potassium , but sodium , which was long ago mentioned by Tiedemann and Gmelin as taking the place of potassium in the saliva of sheep .
The soluble sulphocyanide which exists in the saliva cannot be regarded as an excretion , because it passes with the saliva into the stomach .
Whatever its use or its ultimate destination , it seemed probable that a salt of so stable a nature was not decomposed in its passage through the system .
This suggested that I should look for it in the urine .
Iron , as is well known , yields a very characteristic test of the presence of sulphocyanides .
One compound only which it forms , namely , that with meconic acid , is at all likely to be confounded with the sulphocyanide of iron .
The great sensitiveness of this test also makes it peculiarly adapted for quantitative analysis , by means of colour .
I found in my first experiments that when the urine of a person in whose saliva a sulphocyanide was abundant , was concentrated by evaporation , a reddish-brown colour was caused by the addition of perchloride of iron .
But owing to the dark colour assumed by the concentrated urine , and the mode in which precipitation occurred , no reliance could be placed on this as a proof of the presence of a sulphocyanide in the urine .
The step which then suggested itself was to decolorize the urine by means of animal charcoal .
But it turned out , when this was effected , that the colourless liquid gave no reaction with the persalt of iron .
The following experiment was then tried : A solution of one grain of sulphocyanide of potassium in an ounce of distilled water was filtered through animal charcoal .
The filtrate was tested with the iron solution .
There was no reaction whatever .
It was plain from this that animal charcoal possesses the power either of separating sulphocyanides from their solutions or of decomposing them .
Various other methods for separating the colouring-matter were now tried with more or less success .
The most perfect of these , as regards the removal of colour , was the addition of a solution of sub-acetate of lead .
But the use of this solution is open to the objection that acetate of iron , which is formed in testing for sulphocyanic acid , is itself red .
It is true that the colour is not so intense as that which was actually formed in most cases ; and it was possible in estimating the amount of the essential colouring-agent present by an easy application of the colour-test to deduct the amount of colour due to the acetate of iron .
A modification of the method employed by Professor Harley for separating the colouring-matter of the urine , for the purpose of obtaining urohmematin , proved on the whole the best .
It consists in evaporating the urine in a water-bath to the consistence of thick syrup , treating with alcohol , and adding gradually milk of lime .
The filtrate from this mixture was found to be of a light-yellow colour , closely resembling that of the iron solution .
The ferric solution was added to this filtrate so long as precipitation of oxide of iron occurred .
The liquid now assumed a reddish colour , varying in depth according to circumstances .
The mixture was then filtered ; but it generally happened that , after standing some hours , a second filtration was necessary .
The coloured fluid obtained by either of these methods from evaporated urine is of a bright red colour , exactly resembling that formed by an aqueous solution of sulphocyanide of potassium with perchloride of iron .
In some respects the two solutions did not exactly agree .
The colour of an aqueous solution of sulphocyanide of iron is only affected by mineral acids when in considerable excess .
But the colour formed with iron in evaporated urine is easily destroyed by these acids .
The colour of the pure solution is removed by perchloride of mercury , while that of the organic solution is not affected by the mercurial solution .
It is well known that in certain cases the presence of organic matter in solution greatly modifies chemical action .
The action of acids in the present instance was a question of degree .
The colour was removed from the urinary solution by a small quantity of a mineral acid , and it was removed or impaired in case of a pure solution by a greater quantity of acid .
The following observation throws light upon the action of perchloride of mercury in the respective solutions .
Perchloride of mercury at once destroys the colour of an aqueous solution of sulphocyanide of iron .
Blut ) as I have ascertained , if the solution has been previously boiled ( and boiling was employed in the case of the urinary solutions ) , the red colour is no longer destroyed by the mercurial solution .
Since , then , these difficulties are capable of removal , the argument by the method of exclusion in favour of the red colour being due to sulphocyanide of iron appears conclusive .
There is in fact no other source from which the red colour could proceed in the process by which the urine was decolorized by milk of lime .
Some salt of sulphocyanic acid must , then , be admitted to be a component of the urine .
For the detection of the salt it is only necessary to evaporate eight ounces of urine in a water-bath .
If milk of lime be employed as the decolorizing agent which , for reasons already stated , is to be preferred , the urine should be concentrated to a thick syrup .
In the present stage of my inquiries many details are purposely omitted , particularly those which refer to the quantitative determination of the sulphocyanide in many different samples of urine .
I may mention , however , that I found the average quantity present in healthy urine to amount to about of a grain in sixteen ounces .
Since , then , a sylphocyanide was found in the urine , and was previously known to exist in saliva , it was natural to look for it in other secretions .
It was therefore sought for in a large quantity of cow 's milk , and in two ounces of human sweat , but with negative results .
Two ounces of pure pus from a cyst on a man 's back were also examined , but no sulphocyanide was found .
But as sulphocyanic acid was proved to exist in a secretion from which it may be presumed to enter the blood , and also in an excretion derived from the blood , it was to be expected that it would be found in the blood itself .
The blood operated on was in every instance diluted with an equal part of distilled water .
The mixture was then evaporated in a water-bath until the red colour was altogether lost , and brown coagula , with apparently little fluid , remained .
The mass was strained through muslin by pressure of the fingers .
The filtrate was then decolorized by one of the processes already described .
Briefly stated , then , it was found that a sulpho-cyanide exists in the blood of man , and in that of the pig , fowl , turbot , salmon , and toad .
I also found that when the serum of pig 's blood , procured as free from colour as possible and diliuted .
with an equal portion of water , to prevent complete coagulation , was treated with a solution of perchloride of iron , it became red in a marked degree .
This result has a special interest , because it was obtained without any previous chemical manipulation , and the presence of ' a sulphocyanide was thereby proved .
And this curious circumstance was also ascertained .
If a few drops of a weak solution of sulphocyanide of potassium be mixed with this reddened and diluted serum , and the iron solution is again added , no increase of colour is produced .
This c2 1869 .
] in the Blood and Urine 19 shows that while the sulphocyanide naturally present in the serum is capable of combining with added iron , the serum possesses the power of preventing the formation of sulphocyanide of iron when both compounds are added and intermixed with it .
An analogous masking of chemical action is described by Bernard .
He found that when a solution of lactate of iron is mixed with serum , and a solution of cyanide of potassium is then added , prussian blue is not formed , as would be the case if the solutions were mixed in water instead of serum .
I have not been able to decide positively whether the sulphocyanide is or is not confined to the serum .
Analysis , after combustion , is unsuitable , because sulphocyanides are formed in the combustion of organic matter .
But so far as I have been able to determine from the maceration of the clot in water , the sulphocyanides exist only in the serum .
The foregoing facts point either to the presence of free sulphocyanic acid , or of sulphocyanide of potassium , or sodium , or of both , in the serum of the blood .
This leads to the consideration of that much-vexed question , the cause of the red colour of the blood .
So far as concerns exact colour , nothing more closely resembles blood than a solution of sulphocyanide of iron .
This is primafacie evidence that red blood owes its colour to the iron compound .
The iron is known to be localized in the globules .
These are surrounded by a fluid containing sulphocyanic acid in a combination which easily yields the acid when required .
Such is the theory at present suggested .
I am not unaware of the difficulties in the way of its acceptance .
The colour of haematin cannot , it is said , depend upon the iron it contains , because nearly the whole of the iron may be removed without affecting the colour of the hlematin'- .
But it is not stated that all the iron is ever removed , and it may be that a very small proportion suffices for the formation of the colour , while the larger proportion of the metal is held in reserve in the globules in the same manner as sulphocyanic acid appears to be in the serum .
Having found a sulphocyanide in the blood , it next occurred to me to look for it in the eggs of birds .
It is natural to suppose that , since in the process of incubation red blood is formed , its assumed elements of colour would be found in the egg before incubation .
This supposition proved correct .
Fortunately the albumen of the hen 's egg affords a ready means of research .
It is only necessary to mix it with an equal quantity of distilled water , by which complete coagulation by the iron solution is prevented .
The albumen of a hen 's egg weighs about 300 grains , and this quantity was found to contain of a grain of sulphocyanic acid .
The yolk was intimately mixed with water , then evaporated to dryness in the water-bath , and extracted with alcohol ; but no trace of the salt could be detected .
It is probable , therefore , that the sulphocyanide exists exclusively in the * Elements of Chemistry .
By W. Miller , M.D. , 3rd edit .
p. 872 .
albumen , which , as the process of vivification proceeds , enters into combination with iron , which originally exists in the yolk .
The presence of a sulphocyanide in saliva must be referred to one of two sources .
It is either an exclusive product of the secretion itself , or it previously exists in the blood and is extracted from it as a component of the saliva .
The amount of sulphocyanide found in different analyses varies greatly ; my own results show only about half a grain in twenty ounces of saliva from a healthy subject .
This nearly agrees with the observations of Bidder and Schmidt .
Wright makes the quantity very much greater .
If we take the estimate at only half a grain in twenty ounces of saliva , and reckon this to be the quantity of the secretion swallowed in twenty-four hours , the salt might be probably found in the blood and in the urine .
If , however , my experiments have been rightly interpreted , it is certain that sulphocyanide of potassium or sodium is not a mere product of the salivary glands , We have seen that it is found in the blood of all orders of vertebrate animals , and we know that fish do not possess salivary organs .
Assuming that it is extracted out of the blood , what is its use in the saliva ?
Considering its composition , it seemed possible that it acted either as an antiseptic or else as an agent which prevented fermentation in the alimentary canal , and thus indirectly aided digestion .
The conditions which favour the fermentation of saccharine matter , namely , acidity and the proper temperature , are constantly present in the stomach .
Is sulphocyanide of potassium in saliva destined to check this fermentation , which , under favourable circumstances , may occur in less than an hour ?
Carefully conducted experiments proved that it neither possesses the power of preventing ordinary fermentation nor that of checking it when already in action .
We shall now see what is its action in preventing putrefaction .
Two equal portions of roast mutton were placed , the one in water , and the other in the same quantity of a solution of sulphocyanide of potassium of the strength of 1 grain of the salt to 1 ounce of water .
After some weeks the meat which had lain in water was found to be broken up into shreds , and was quite putrid ; that in the sulphocyanide solution was merely softened , and had a sour smell , but was not putrid .
Sulphocyanide of potassium , therefore , possesses an antiseptic power ; but whether or not this property comes into operation in the alimentary canal is a question I cannot now decide .
I have made many quantitative analyses to determine the amount of sulphocyanide eliminated with the urine in various diseases , including typhus , typhoid , and scarlet fever .
Not to enter into details at present , it will be sufficient to state what the results showed with much uniformity .
In all diseases in which wasting of the body was marked , the excretion in the urine of a sulpho cyanide , in common with some other substances , was unusually great .
This increase of it in the urine was found to correspond with its decrease in , or more frequently its disappearance from , the saliva .
This circumstance goes to prove that the salt is not formed by the saliva , but is an ingredient of the blood itself .

