250 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Mallophaga.\#151 ; C. ( Plate XIV .
) The Mallophaga entrusted to me for examination were collected from Bele-canoides , Brion , Halobcena , Biomedea , and and comprise species of the genera Bocophorus , Nirmus , Goniodes , and Lipeurus .
Only one , and that the commonest , obtained from Brocellaria neBrion desolatus , and perhaps also from Biomedea exulans , was previously known , having been recorded from Halo- beena ccemdea .
The four additional species described as new are separated by very marked characters from all others hitherto known in their respective genera .
Among them Goniodes brevipes from Aptenodytes is particularly interesting , because no Bhilopteraat all were known from this bird , and this genus has been observed on Natatores only once before , being especially parasitic upon Gallinaceae .
Belecanoides also had previously furnished no Mallophaga , and the species of Nirmus procured from it is very distinct .
The Bocophorus dentatus from Biomedea exulans is remarkable on account of its relationship to a species observed on a Vulture , from which it is distinguished by very precise differentia .
Docophorus dentatus .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 16 .
) Giebel , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1876 , May , xvii .
388 .
Brevis , latus , capite rotundato truncato-trigono , marginibus lateralibus multi-setosis , posticis gracillime bidentatis ; antennis setaceis ; signatura frontali feminis triangulari in lineam mediam occipitalem exeunte .
Thorace brevi , lato ; meta-thoracis liexagonis angulis posticis dentiformibus ; pedibus brevibus , tibiis multi-spinosis .
Abdomine orbiculari , maculis marginalibus intus rotundatis , ventralibus partitis .
Mas obscurior , marginibus profunde crenatis , fasciis in medio divisis .
Long. corp .
3*\#151 ; 3*75 mm. , capit .
1*25 mm. , thorac .
0.75 mm. , abd .
1*75 mm. This species is distinguished from all other known Bocophori by its abundant and strong lateral setae , the two backward processes of the hind margin of the temporal border , and by the excised apex of the retro-duced metanotum .
It is short , broad and plump , like B. brevicollis from monarchus ; but differs from that species in the peculiar formation and the characteristic markings of the body .
Head short , broad , the fore-part shorter than the hinder ; clypeus broad , almost truncate in front , beset with short scattered hairs ; trabeculae very long , acute , * Translated from the German by the Rev. A. E. Eaton and Mr. R. M'Lachlan .
MALLOPHAGA\#151 ; C. GIEBEL .
extending backwards oyer the antennal sinus ; tempora outwardly expanded , broad , convex , with long setae at the lateral margins , posteriorly with a concolorous , irregular , tooth-like process prolonged backwards on either side .
Antennae inserted in a deep sinus before the middle of the head , filiform ; the basal joint the strongest and somewhat shorter than the second joint which is the longest , the others gradually tapering , the third joint shorter than the second and longer than the fourth which is subequal to the fifth .
The brown frontal marking forms an equilateral triangle , extending beyond the middle of the head , and emits a fine pale line from its apex to the middle of the occipital border , and another from each of its obtuse lateral angles to the frenal margin .
Thoracic segments transverse , bordered with brown , divided longitudinally by a fine median line : prothorax narrowed posteriorly , the lateral angle bearing one seta and slightly projecting shortly before the sub-convex hinder margin ; meta-thorax broad , transversely 6-sided , lateral angles rounded and beset with several long setae , hinder angles acute .
Legs very short and stout , the femora and tibiae with scattered hairs , the latter fringed with shorter stiff bristles along the inner edge , and with two long strong spines at the apex ; ungues long .
Abdomen sub-orbicular , the sides only very slightly crenate , beset with the usual setae , and with short scattered hairs on the disk above and beneath : segments above marked with brown freckles which coalesce at the lateral borders , and are produced inwards into slightly narrower stripes of even width whose obtuse ends surround a narrow middle space ; from the second segment up to the antepenultimate these markings are intersected by a pale band running parallel with the side of the abdomen : on the ventral surface the inner row of the spots is more conspicuous than the outer , and under a high magnifying power each of the spots composing it is seen to he subdivided into three contiguous with one another .
In the smaller and paler female the apical segment is sharply excised .
In the male ( one specimen ) , which is dark brown , and larger than the female , the frontal marking is much shorter and broader than that of the other sex , is not triangular , and terminates in a median tooth-like point exactly between the antennae .
The abdomen above up to the penultimate segment has the brown bands interrupted by a pale median line only , instead of by a band : beneath , this pale median space is present only in the anterior part , the bands being continuous in the hinder segments , and the brown lateral margin is sharply separated from the bands .
The sharply produced posterior angles of the apical segment are serrate .
Sab.\#151 ; On Diomede a exulans , among the breast feathers .
Live examples collected in March 1875 .
Although similar sexual differences have not yet been observed in any other species of Docophorus , yet on considering the agreement in other respects between the female examples and this darker and larger male , I dare not separate these two forms .
From Diomedea Nitzscli mentions only Docophorus His types being no longer at hand a comparison is not possible ; hut since he states that that species agrees with Lipeurus tcturus in size and colour , it must be distinct from ours .
Doc .
brevicollis(Griebel , Insecta epizoa tab .
x. 7 ) from Vultuv monarchus is allied to Doc .
dentatus in general habit and markings ; but a close comparison reveals very considerable differences in the form , and also in the lesser details of the ornamentation .
Nirmus angulicollis .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 17 .
) Giebel , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
388 .
Oblongus , fulvus , fusco-pictus ; capite semi-elliptico , antice brevi-rotundato , antennis ante medium insertis ; prothoracis angulis anticis acute exstantibus , meta-thoracis coarctati angulis obtusis ; abdomine angusto marginibus crenatis , maculis rectangulatis ventralibus bipartitis .
Long. corp .
3'25 mm. , capit .
0*50 mm. , thorac .
075 , abd .
2 mm. A species distinguished from all others similar to it by the configuration of the head , and still more by the peculiar form of the two thoracic segments .
Head as broad in front as behind , anteriorly rounded abruptly and furnished with 8-10 marginal bristles on each side .
Poremost angle of the deep antennal sinus not at all prominent ; the hinder angle , on the contrary , has a very considerable eye knob .
Temporal margins parallel with one another , studded with minute and distant hairs ; occipital margin slightly emarginate .
The antennae reach about as far as the occipital margin ; the basal joint stout , the second the longest , the third equal to the fourth and the shortest , the fifth thicker and somewhat longer ; all have long , fine , minute , distant hairs , and the apical joint is terminated with a tuft of bristles .
Head pale brown , with dark brown spots before and after the antennal groove , and with two such spots , triangular , at the occipital border ; tempora rather darker than the middle of the head .
Thorax brown , with a pale longitudinal median line : prothorax as wide as the occiput , somewhat transverse ; the neck contracted in front in the sinus of the occipital margin ; its acute anterior lateral angles extend sideways as widely as the rounded temporal angles ; in advance of the rounded posterior angles the sides of the prothorax appear somewhat narrowed , and they are destitute of marginal setae .
The much longer metathorax is slightly narrowed before the middle , and has rounded angles destitute of bristles .
Legs slender , brown , with pale apices to the joints , and with fine little hairs ; femora and tibiae of almost equal length and strength , the last with several strong apical spines ; ungues strongly curved .
The abdomen attains its greatest width at the 5th and 6th segments ; at the 7th it again becomes somewhat narrower ; the last two segments are greatly abbreviated and suddenly narrowed : the hinder angles of the segments , though acute , project only a little , and hence the sides of the abdomen are merely slightly crenate ; their setae usually become more numerous towards the MALLOPHAGA.\#151 ; C. GIEBEL .
apex , but are not very long ; the 8tb segment has on each side a marginal process , and as well as the 9th has numerous setae at the hinder margin .
Above , the foremost seven segments are marked with transverse quadrangular brown spots separated from one another only by the pale median line and the paler joinings of the segments , so that the segment in front and behind has a very dark lateral spot .
Beneath , these quadrangular spots are separated into an inner paler row and an outer row of dark spots marked with the stigmata , by means of a pale longitudinal line parallel with the side at the inner half of the spiracular row .
Sab.\#151 ; On Diomedea exulans , with Docop ; three examples .
The broad rounding of the short fore-head , the acute tooth-like four angles and the lateral marginal excision of the very broad prothorax , as well as the conspicuous contraction of the metathorax before its middle , prevent this new species from being confounded with any of the very numerous known species of this genus .
In general habits and marking , it may be placed next to fenestrcitus ( Giebel , Insekt .
Epizoa , 1875 , tab .
vi .
7 ) of the Cuckoo .
Nirmus setosus .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 18 .
) Giebel , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1876 , xvii .
388 .
Elavus , fusco pictus ; capite obtuse trigono-cordato , temporibus late rotundatis , multisetosis ; prothorace lato , metathorace trapezoidali angulis lateralibus obtusis , setis multis atque longis instructis ; abdomine oblongo marginibus obtuse crenatis , segmentisque fusco-vittatis .
Long. corp .
2 mm. , capit .
0*20 mm. , thorac .
0*20 mm. , abd .
1*20 mm. This elongated pale yellow species with darker edging has its most striking characters in the copious bristling of the tempora and of the thorax .
Head somewhat longer than its width behind , narrowed rather suddenly in front of the antennae to about 1 of its greatest breadth , the clypeus border strongly convex , terminated by two setae on each side , behind which stands on both sides a long marginal seta in the midst of the labrum .
Anterior angle of the antennal sinus prominent and acute , furnished at the base with a small spine .
The hind-head has broad rounded tempora , each of which carries six long setae , which project in part over the metanotum .
Antennae with the basal joint long and stout , the second somewhat shorter and more slender , the third equal to the fourth and shorter still , the fifth again rather longer and with a tuft of bristles at the end .
Protliorax transverse , widest behind the middle , bearing four long setae behind the obtusely rounded lateral angles .
Metathorax longer but not broader , with a tuft of yet longer bristles at its even blunter posterior lateral angles .
Legs slender ; the femora rather shorter and stouter than the tibiae , both of them with minute scattered hairs .
Abdomen narrow , slender , widened only a little posteriorly , and narrowed again so as to terminate obtusely : the first of the posterior lateral angles of the segments has one minute spine , the second two , and the following have three and four long setae of unequal length ; the broadly trilateral apical segment has a short seta , and in some examples bears a triangular plate covering the anal aperture .
Above and beneath , the segments have small scattered hairs .
Body pale yellow ( in immature specimens whitish , with narrow brown edgings ) , the labrum and antennal sinus , as well as two slender triangular occipital spots which are prolonged as temporal lines convergently to the dark eye-spots , brown .
Thorax margined at the sides with brown .
The anterior abdominal segments have acute marginal brown spots about their middle , and these are themselves connected by means of bands on each side , which , though narrowed in the middle , are still continuous ; in the posterior segments these markings become paler , and they are wanting in the apical segment ; the spots encircling the stigmata become dark brown at the lips of these orifices .
Nab.\#151 ; On JPelecanoides urinatrix , in the white feathers of the breast and belly .
Six examples , two of them immature , captured on the 14tli October 1874 at Observatory Bay , Kerguelen Island .
Among the known species , Nirmusfnsco-marginatus is nearly related to the present insect ; but it is distinguished from the Kerguelen animal by its more decidedly narrowed fore-bead , and by its wanting the abdominal bands .
Nirmus depressus on Phalacrocorax brasiliensisdiffers in the widened form of the thoracic segments , and in its oval , very differently marked abdomen .
The similar species inhabiting the Gulls and Terns are readily separable by their white colour and black decoration .
The long strong bristles of the temples and of the angles of the thoracic segments also afford to the eye marked peculiarities , from which the name is taken .
Goniodes brevipes .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 19 .
) Giebel , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xvii .
389 .
Capite thoraceque flavis , fusco-marginatis ; abdomine albido , maculis margi-nalibus fuseis oblique fusiformibus : capite antice parabolico temporibus dilatatis , angulatis , postice in dentem prolongatis ; antennis brevibus ; prothorace transverse oblongo ; metathoracis latioris lateribus angulatis margin postico valde convexo ; pedibus brevissimis ; abdomine late ovali , marginibus lent crenatis , segmentis setigeris , ultimo lato emarginato .
Long. corp . ?
L50 mm. Parabolic margin of the fore-head evenly beset with only fine short hairs ; the obtuse anterior angles of the outwardly and posteriorly greatly expanded tempora have three minute spines apiece ; the tooth-like posterior temporal angles extend backwards as far as the middle of the protliorax , and from each of them a strong bristle is prolonged further over it ; the occipital margin , excavated between these MALLOPHAGA.\#151 ; C. G1EBEL .
acute angles , is , in the middle , again rather convex .
Antennae sunk in a shallow lateral sinus in the middle of the head , very short , hardly reaching as far as the anterior temporal angles ; the short , stout , and obtusely conical basal joint with short scattered hairs , the next three joints obviously shorter and successively decreasing in length ; the obliquely truncate extremity of the apical joint has a little tuft of bristles .
Prothorax twice as long as wide , the sides slightly convex , the hind margin very convex , destitute of marginal setae : metathorax shorter hut conspicuously broader , its obtuse lateral angles very prominent , each of them with three long setae and a minute spine in front of these , its very convex , almost angular , posterior margin encroaches deeply upon the abdomen .
Legs short and weak , with minute scattered hairs ; tibiae cylindrical with a brown terminal annulus ; tarsal joints short , annular , with two spines on the inner margin ; ungues short , conical .
Abdomen compressed , sides sub-parallel , slightly narrowed only at the posterior segments so as to terminate very obtusely : the first segment with 1 , the following segments with 2 , the posterior segments with 3 or 4 strong marginal setae , the apical segment with two pairs of them on each side of the median incisure : above , along the middle of the back are dense decumbent setae , which are most numerous on the fourth segment , but afterwards becoming gradually fewer are altogether absent on the last two segments ; beneath , along the middle of the segments the decumbent setae are less crowded .
Head yellow edged with brown , which colour extends to the anterior temporal angles : on the occipital margin are two narrowly triangular dark brown marginal spots from whose apices the line bounding the region of the vertex is prolonged .
In the thorax the brown edging becomes paler especially about the middle .
Abdomen yellowish white ; the segments have on both sides a pale brown marginal spot pointed inwards and outwards and marked in its middle by the pale stigma ; the yellow apical segment has no marginal spot : beneath , the stigmata are very conspicuous through their dark edging .
Hab.\#151 ; On Aptenodytes longirostrisamong the neck feathers .
One specimen obtained in January in Swain 's Bay .
G. mammillatus , from JPelecanus ruficollis , differs from the present species in its almost quadrate head , its obtuse temporal angles , its much longer antennae , and its stout femora and long tibiae .
G. heterocerusis nearer to it in general habit , and so is G. clielicornis ; but these are separated clearly by their short fore-liead , their shorter posterior temporal angles , their longer antennae and legs , and by their altogether different setae and abdominal markings .
Lipeurus clypeatus .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 20 .
) Giebel , Insecta Epizoa , 236 ; idem , 'Ann .
\amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xvii .
389 .
Oblongus fulvus fusco-pictus ; clypeo excisuris lateralibus definito ; autennis gracilibus ; prothorace trapezoidali , metathorace longiore ; abdomine anguste oblongo , marginibus profunde crenatis , nigro fuscis , feminse fasciis fuscis .
Long. corp .
25 mm. , capit .
0*2 mm. , thorac .
0*35 mm. , abd .
1*75 mm. $ Head elongate , narrowed gradually in advance of the antennae to about | of its breadth , ending with the very convex fore margin of the clypeus , which itself is sharply limited on each side by an acutely defined marginal notch ; in this notch stand 2 bristles of equal length , and beneath in front of the mandibles is 1 on each side , while posteriorly at the winged margin are 3\#151 ; 5 bristles half as long .
The parallel temporal margins , wanting setae , posteriorly turn inwards at right angles at the slightly concave occipital margin , and each curve has one long marginal bristle .
Antennae inserted after the middle of the head , each in a deep sinus whose anterior angle is acute ; their first joint equal in length to the second , the third and fourth considerably shorter , the fifth longer than the penultimate and terminated with tufts of bristles .
Prothorax somewhat transverse , and like the metathorax trapezoidal with the sides almost straight and without bristles , only the metathorax has four unequal bristles at the angles .
Anterior legs as usual the shortest and stoutest , the other two pairs more slender , the hindermost reaching backwards as far as the middle of the abdomen : coxae long ; trochanters sharply defined ; femora slender , longer than the tibiae , which like them have but few hairs ; ungues slender , strongly curved .
Abdomen long and narrow , very slightly widened in the middle : segments somewhat transverse , all of equal length from the first , their apical margin slightly convex , their posterior lateral angles obtusely rounded but projecting so as to give a crenate outline to the side ; the said angles of the first segment with one seta , the following with three very long unequal setae , the last two segments with short and minute bristles : above and beneath , the surface has only very scattered bristles . ?
Head pale yellow , laterally bordered with brown ; the clypeus projecting in front , clear and transparent ; ocelli black ; antennae without markings .
Thorax edged with darker at the sides ; legs without markings .
Abdomen pale brown bordered with black brown , the edging becoming paler at the last two segments .
$ Antennae longer than in the female .
Abdomen whitish , with blackish brown marginal spots and pale stigmata .
Hab.\#151 ; ?
Pive examples were captured in the feathers of the neck and breast of Procellaria nereis on the 6th Nov. 1874 at Observatory Bay .
Another example was previously taken there on Prion desolatus , 14th Oct. One example from the neck feathers of Diomedea , in March 1875 .
As only one specimen lies before me , I am unable to decide whether the differences above described which it presents are indicative of specific distinction from the females with which I have associated it , or are merely sexual peculiarities .
PHILOPTERA.\#151 ; C. GIEBEL .
L. clypeatus , first described from several examples from Halobcena in the collection of the Museum of Halle , cannot be confounded with any other known species occurring on the Storm Petrels , owing to the peculiar form of the clypeus , the short antennae , the trapezoidal segments of the thorax , and the abdominal markings .
Lipeurus----------sp ?
A white skin of a Lipeurus 2 mm. long , from the head of Diomede a fuliginosa , was obtained in Dec. 1874 ; but no systematic position can be assigned to it .
It is true that R/ udow gave a diagnosis of a species from the same bird , under the name Lipeurus meridionalis(See Giebel , Insecta Epizoa , 255 ) ; but that was stated to have an octagonal metathorax , and a broad pale-dull-yellowish abdomen , which peculiarities , to say nothing of the markings , are not shared by our insect ; besides the head of that species is compact , whereas in ours it is elongate .

