[ 527 ] VII .
Some Points in the Structure and Development of Dentine .
By J. Howard Mummery , L.D.S. Communicated by C. S. Tomes , F.R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read March o , 1891 .
[ Plates 36-89 .
] The difficulties attendant upon the accurate microscopical investigation of enamel and dentine , especially of the latter tissue , have been so great , that very varied views as to their structure and development have been held up to the present time .
In the study of the development of dentine , where it is necessary to retain a very soft and delicate tissue , the pulp , in its natural relations to a hard , calcified tissue , the dentine , the difficulties have been greatest , and it has generally been found necessary to resort to decalcification of the hard tissue by acids , to ensure this retention of the natural relations of the parts .
Even , however , by this method , aided by the improved processes of section cutting now in use , good preparations , in which the cells of the pulp are retained in undisturbed contact with the dentine through any great extent of surface , are comparatively rare , and the cells of the pulp usually exhibit by theii shiunken condition the injurious effects of the reagents used .
It is probable also that there are other detrimental effects of these reagents present , which are not so easily detected , and the fact of the lime salts being -lemo'ved from the dentine , does , as I shall endeavour to show , produce an alteration in its microscopical appearances .
_ By a process elaborated by Dr. L. A Weil , of Munich , and suggested to him by a method employed by Professor yon Koch , of Darmstadt , in the preparation of Mollusca , the last-named difficulties have been overcome , and we can now cut preparations of the teeth with the pulps in situ , without decalcification .
The piocess was described by Dr. Weil in a paper entitled ' Sir Histologie der Zahnpulpa ' ( Leipzig , 1887 ) , and in the ' Zeitschrift flir Wissenschaftliche Mikroskopie ( vol. 5 , 1888 , pp. 200-202 ) , also by myself in the 'Transactions of the Odontological Society of Great Britain ' ( vol. 22 , May , 1890 ) .
The process consists , first , in " fixing " the soft parts by placing the fieshly extracted tooth in a saturated solution of corrosive sublimate in water\#151 ; first dividing the specimen with a fine saw at one end to allow the solution to penetrate .
When sufficiently fixed , the sublimate is removed by washing , and the tooth passed gradually through successive strengths of alcohol to absolute alcohol\#151 ; it is then passed into chloroform , to which are gradually added fragments of dessicated Canada balsam , until a very thick solution of the balsam is produced .
The preparation is then placed in a suitable receptacle over a water-bath , covered with more of the dessicated Canada balsam , and kept at a temperature of 90 ' C. for several days , to allow the thorough penetration of the tissues with the hardened balsam .
The tooth is then removed , cut with a fine sharp saw under water , and the sections ground down , first on a lathe with corundum , and afterwards on a fine stone with water , under the finger .
Staining in bulk may be accomplished during the treatment with alcohol , and the sections are mounted in chloroform balsam .
Very thin sections can be cut by this process , and good preparations exhibit a section of the whole pulp in undisturbed relation to the dentine , and , I think , with less alteration in the soft parts , than with any other process which has been made use of .
In the following investigation , the method above described has been employed , compared with , and controlled by , other specimens prepared by the more usual methods .
Of the various theories that have been held as to the development of dentine , the view most widely received , and embodied in all the principal text-books , is the conversion view of Tomes , Waldeyer , Boll , and others , and given by Mr. Charles Tomes , F.R.S. , in his ' Dental Anatomy .
' Certain appearances in fully formed , and in developing dentine , are not thoroughly accounted for on this theory , and I propose in the following communication to describe these appearances , as demonstrated in human dentine , in other Mammalian dentines , and in the vaso-dentine of fish .
These appearances I look upon as indicative of dentine tissue being formed by a connective tissue calcification , and thus being much more closely analogous in its manner of development to bone than has usually been supposed .
Other observers have described appearances not fully accounted for under the current theories ot dentine development , as will appear from the following brief summary , but no observer , so far as I am aware , has either described or figured specimens in such a way as to be at all conclusive ; indeed , much that has been written on the subject scarcely amounts to more than an expression of hypotheses .
Of the two different theories held , as to the method by which bone is formed from cells , the " conversion ' view and that of " secretion , " the lormer has been the most generally received .
According to the " conversion view " the masses of individual osteoblasts aie consolidated by the deposit of lime salts in their substance , and the laminae of the STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE .
bone are made up of these layers of consolidated cells\#151 ; the bone corpuscles are osteoblasts , which have become included in the calcified matrix , but have themselves remained uncalcified .
The other view is that of " secretion"\#151 ; the osteoblasts are held to secrete a substance which calcifies , and this secretion being not uninterrupted , but intermittent , the laminae of bone are produced .
The layers of osteoblasts lying against the bone secrete the calcifying material , not becoming involved in the matrix themselves , with the exception of those which become enclosed by the forming bone and persist as lacunal cells .
These two different views , with some modifications , have also been held as to the formation of dentine .
John Hunter held that the dentine was formed by a process of secretion , as the shell is by the animal that forms it .
In ' The Natural History of the Human Teeth , ' p. 42 , he says : " The ossified part of a tooth would seem to have much the same connection with the pulp as a snail has with its shell .
Purkinje and Bashkow held that the basis substance of the dentine originates from fibres which are formed by the dentine pulp\#151 ; the dentinal canals lepiesenting the spaces between these fibres .
Schwann considered that the fibres in human teeth run in the same diiection as the canals , while Purkinje and Bashkow considered the fibres to be at right angles to the tubes ( parallel to the surface of the pulp ) , and that the dentine was deposited in successive layers .
Schwann says : " We have to regard the dentine as composed of fibres ( basis substance ) between which the canals , possessed of separate walls , are present , But , he asks , " in what relations stand the fibres and the tubes to the cells 1 ( odontoblasts ) , and he believes it possible that the dentine is the ossified substance of the pulp .
^ Kolliker , Lent , Hertz , Baume , look upon the formation of dentine as a secretion process , Baume holding that " the odontoblasts secrete a material which calcifies , rather than that they are themselves converted .
" Waldeyer , Tomes , Beale , Boll , and Klein , on the other hand , support the conversion view of dentine development .
Wald ever , considering the process of ossification to be identical with that of ordinary bone , holds that the dentinal fibres are the central remains of the odontoblasts , while their peripheral portions become basis substance .
Tomes ( ' Dental Anatomy , ' p. 170 ) says ; " The dentine is , I believe , formed by the direct conversion of the odontoblast cells , just as the enamel is by that of the enamel cells , and is derived from them and from them alone/ ^ In a paper on the development of dentine and enamel read before the International Medical Congress , at Berlin , in August , 1890 , Dr. Michael Morgen stern regards the hardening of the tooth as a transudation process , caused by a substance in the pulp itself which contains salts of lime independent of the odontoblasts , which sub5-JO MR. J. H. MUMMERY ON SOME POINTS IN THE stance is taken up by the odontoblasts , accumulates in them , and passes out of their peripheral border , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. Professor Klein describes the dentine previous to its calcification as showing " just like the substance of the odontoblasts the fine network of ( ' Atlas of Histology .
' ) Again , in the 'Elements of Histology , ' the same authority says : " The dentine is composed of 1st , a homogeneous matrix ; this is a reticular tissue of fine fibres impregnated with lime salts , and thus resembling the matrix of bone , " \amp ; c. , \amp ; c Professor Klein holds that the network of reticular tissue in the substance of the odontoblasts is the reticular basis of the dentine matrix , which is thus an cellular substance .
By the aid of the mode of preparation of specimens above described , checked by the employment of other methods , I hope that T may be able to adduce more positive evidence of the incellular nature of the dentine matrix than has yet been given , and to furnish something approaching to definite proof of the views herein set forth .
A transverse , or longitudinal section of the pulp and dentine of a young healthy tooth , in which dentine formation is in active progress , cut by the process described above , shows the several parts with great distinctness .
( Plate 36 , figs. 1 and 2 .
) Owing to the retention of the lime salts , the fully calcified dentine is seen very clearly differentiated from the next layer ( fig. 1 , b ) , that " tissue on the borderland of calcification " ( Tomes ) which is situated between the fully calcified dentine and the odontoblast layer .
The layer ( b ) which takes the stain faintly is traversed by the dentinal fibril and encroached upon above by the advancing line of calcification ( a ) in the form of coalescing globules and detached spherical masses .
The odontoblast layer ( c ) is in immediate contact with the above-described semi-calcified layer ( 6 ) and the cells composing it lie square to the forming dentine .
In thin sections the odontoblasts form a single layer only , and in young teeth there is a distinct space between them .
( Plate 36 , fig. 2 .
) Dr. L. A. Weil ( 'Zur Histologie der Zahnpulpa ' ) describes as a separate layer , a comparatively clear space existing between the odontoblasts and the general mass of the pulp tissue ( Plate 36 , fig. 1 , rt ) , in which there are no cells , but interlacing fine fibres , which he describes as being in connection with the odontoblast cells .
This layer takes the stain very faintly , or not at all , generally appearing with low powers as a clear zone immediately beneath the odontoblasts .
I can certainly corroborate the fact of the constancy of this appearance in the transverse sections of teeth I have examined , although not agreeing with Dr. Weil as to the ultimate destination of all these fibres .
In some longitudinal sections , however , taken near to the growing and unfinished end of a bicuspid tooth , I have been unable to distinguish any such layer , the cells and fibres of the general pulp tissue being in immediate proximity to the odontoblasts .
In transverse sections near the apex of the pulp ( where the growth of the dentine is not very active ) I have seen the layer much more marked than in other parts .
Dr. Weil STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE .
531 compares this layer to basal membranes ( cit. ) .
Beneath this is seen the " gelatinous connective tissue " of the main substance of the pulp with its numerous cells , blood-vessels , and nerves ( fig. 1 , d ) .
^ In some of the first specimens which I cut by the balsam process ( longitudinal sections of young healthy bicuspid teeth ) my attention was arrested by a peculiar appearance at the border of the dentine which I had never seen in decalcified preparations .
Processes were seen springing from the dentine , and blending with the connective tissue of the pulp , all round the margin of the pulp cavity ( Plate 36 , figs. 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 ) .
On examination with a higher power , these processes have the appearance of connective tissue bundles partially impregnated with lime salts in advance of the main line of calcification .
At the inner margin of the dentine they are seen to spring from its substance in a direction more or less parallel to the surface , these horizontal bundles of fibres blending together into larger bundles at right angles to the surface of the dentine , much as the spreading roots of a tree coalesce to form its trunk .
These bundles , the high refractive index of which suggests their partial calcification , are plainly seen to be continuous with the general connective tissue of the pulp .
In the specimen from which the photographs ' " were taken , no stain was made use of , and in rubbing down the section much of the pulp was broken away from the dentine , rendering very conspicuous the connection of these fibres with the calcified tissue .
I have not seen many specimens in which these connective tissue fibres gave evidence of partial calcification , and I am inclined to think the condition is an unusual one , although I have constantly , as described below , met with these fibres from the pulp incorporated with the portion of the matrix still unimpregnated with lime salts .
( One is reminded , by these specimens , of the similar appearances in the formation of bone in membrane , where spiculse are seen shooting out in advance of the calcified substance .
) The peculiar appearances exhibited by these specimens led me to examine othei teeth for the same tissue , with the result that I found it was distinctly visible in the great majority of sections cut , the specimens above described being peculiai only in the large size and great apparent rigidity of these fibrous prolongations .
At the apex of the pulp cavity these processes are more slender , form wide , open loops , and can be traced for some distance into the pulp ( Plate 36 , fig. 6 ) .
In sections cut somewhat obliquely ( not in the same plane as the odontoblasts ) the appearance shown in Plate 37 , fig. 1 , is often seen .
Here small , deeply-stained cells , or cell-nuclei are seen , crowded upon , and following the course of , the bundles of connective tissue fibres , which in this specimen are very delicate .
In other pie-parations , however , these bundles are much coarser , and the cells seem to be incoi* A set of photo-micrographs , illustrating this paper , are in the possession of the Royal Society .
See p. 543 in/ ra .
3 y 2 532 MR. J. H. MUMMERY ON SOME POINTS IN THE porated in the bundles ( Plate 37 , fig. 2 ) , reminding one very much of the appearances in developing membrane-bone , where osteoblasts are seen applied to , and lying between , the bundles of osteogenic fibres .
In the last preparation referred to ( Plate 37 , fig. 2 ) , which is cut in the plane of the odontoblasts , their nuclei are seen in the interspaces of these bundles although the outline of the cells cannot be made out .
A section which is not cut in the exact plane of the odontoblast cells exhibits the fibrous trabeculae with greater distinctness than one cut in that plane , although they can readily be seen among the odontoblasts in the latter preparations .
I think this is accounted for by the fact that the stained odontoblasts lying among these fibres hide them to a great extent , but when cut obliquely , the odontoblast nuclei are seen end on , and the regular layer of cells not being conspicuous , the connective tissue bundles are more clearly seen .
Many of the cells which are in contact with the processes above described , especially those which appear to be involved in the bundles , are distinctly smaller than the odontoblasts , and seem too closely applied to these bundles to be interpreted as odontoblasts .
Associated , therefore , with these latter cells are other cells which , I believe , play an important part in dentine development , but they are destitute of processes , and not arranged in a definite layer .
In longitudinal sections of teeth where the tubes are cut obliquely , or nearly at right angles , especially near the upper part of the pulp cavity , the reticular structure exhibited in Plate 38 , fig. 1 , is sometimes visible , a fine net-work of fibres forming circular and oval meshes , involved in which are numerous small round cells .
This appears to be the same reticulum of fibres described in the previous specimens , but seen , as it were , from beneath , the meshes being cut transversely .
Plaving constantly found these appearances in fully-formed teeth , I proceeded to examine specimens which had uncompleted fangs , in which , towards the unformed apex , the deposition of dentine was in active progress .
A longitudinal section from such a tooth exhibits the appearances shown in Plate 37 , fig. 3 .
In this rapidly growing portion of a tooth ( Plate 36 , fig. 2 ) , the odontoblast cells are seen to be disposed in a single layer , to lie square against the layer of stained , uncalcified matrix substance ( Plate 37 , b ) , which is here very broad , and to be distinctly separated from one another .
This slight separation between the odontoblasts I have found to be ver } ?
constant in young dentine .
A distinct reticulum of fine fibres is seen passing between and enveloping the odontoblasts , and by careful focussing on the right plane ( see Plate 38 , fig. 3 , e)these fibres can be seen to be gathered into bundles and incorporated with the matrix substance out of which they appeal to spring .
Small elongated and irregular shaped cells are seen in this specimen , mingled with the odontoblasts .
In this section also , as in others of very young dentine which has not been decalcified , a faint striation parallel to the surface of the pulp cavity is visible in the recently calcified dentine .
This striation cannot be seen in these specimens in the layer between the odontoblasts and the dentine , but in the same layer in the incisor of a Calf kept for a longtime in chromic acid , it can be seen very distinctly .
^ The striation in the dentine is limited to a narrow area , the matrix at some little distance from the pulp cavity showing no indication of it , neither is it visible in the last-formed layers of dentine near the apex of the pulp cavity at this stage of development .
It is particularly evident in the dentine of the Rat .
Having satisfied myself of the presence of the connective tissue processes above described , in human dentine , I examined teeth of persistent growth , taking the incisor of the Rat ( Mus decumanus ) .
_ A thin section , cut by Weil 's process , shows a very strong connective tissue m the pulp , and a very open meshed reticulum of connective tissue bundles at the margin of the dentine , covered with small rounded cells similar in appearance to those of the main substance of the pulp .
( Plate 37 , fig. 4 .
) _ In these specimens the incorporation of the connective tissue bundles with the forming dentine is particularly evident ; the fibres , which form round and ovoid meshes at their point of junction with the dentine , lie in a horizontal or oblique position to the surface of the pulp cavity , and in many parts can be traced for a little distance into the substance of the formed dentine .
Many of the small rounded cells seem to be incorporated with the fibres , as described above in human dentine , others are seen lying in the areolar spaces of the tissue .
^ The strongest fibrous bands are usually seen at a little distance from the growing base of the tooth , and the whole of this tissue towards the apex of the tooth was apparently considered by Mr. Tomes to be a degenerative tissue , as he says in the 'Dental Anatomy , ' p. 367 , " near to the surface actually in wear , they ( the fibrils ) become cut off from the pulp cavity by the conversion of what remains of the pulp into a laminated granular mass , so that the dentine exposed on the surface of a rodent 's tooth must be devoid of sensitiveness .
' ' I find , however , that m sections cut by the balsam process the pulp contains odontoblasts as far forward as it extends , and that in all the specimens I have examined the tubules of the dentine pass through this laminated layer to the pulp tissue , and are nowhere cut off from connection with it and its cells .
One would imagine that m the process of preparing suer teeth by decalcification , the boundary between the laminated dentine and the laminae of the pulp tissue would be obscured , and thus lead to such an interpretation as the above . . .
A very distinct striation of the dentine is noticeable at the margin of the pulp cavity , the individual striae interlacing , but maintaining a general direction parallel to the connective tissue bands of the pulp which are incorporated v\ith the matu .
These striae are very visible for some way into the dentine , forming in this situation a MR. J. H. MUMMERY ON SOME * ) POINTS IN THE band of a slightly darker appearance than the rest of the dentine , and fading gradually away in the deeper parts of the tissue approaching the enamel .
With good illumination the striae can be detected in many parts in the form of fine lines in the deeper portion of the dentine .
These markings bear a strong resemblance to those in a similar situation described above as sometimes seen in human teeth .
Allowing for the possibility of these connective tissue fibres being a degenerative tissue , I examined the growing base of the incisor of a young Eat , and found the same arrangement of fibres very distinctly blending with the dentine substance , and in this situation crowded with small polygonal cells , which in some parts were in such abundance that the septa seemed to be made up of cells ( Plate 37 , fig. 5 ) .
The odontoblasts and the fibrous bands can in many parts be seen at the same time , but as in the case of the same tissue in human teeth , the fibres are most distinctly seen where the section is not cut exactly across the plane of the odontoblast cells .
In a molar tooth from a newly-born Eat , in which there was but a narrow strip of dentine formed , fine connective tissue fibres could be well seen running through the odontoblast layer to the dentine , and in some places forming loops at their junction with the dentine .
Upon and around these are small cells , considerably smaller than the nuclei of the odontoblasts which are visible among them .
In some sections from the tusk of the Elephant , kindly forwarded to me by Professor Miller of Berlin , I find a similar incorporation of the pulp tissue in the newly formed ( tubular ) dentine ( Plate 38 , fig. 2 ) .
These specimens , however , having been prepared from dried pulps , do not exhibit the cells in their natural condition , although the passage of the connective tissue fibres of the pulp into the dentine is exceedingly well marked .
In the erratic deposits of secondary , non-tubular dentine , in the substance of the pulp of the tusk , so frequently met with , the incorporation of the stroma of the pulp in the tissue is very clearly seen ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 ) .
At the suggestion of my friend , Mr. Charles Tomes , I examined the teeth of several fish in which an appearance of lamination is noticeable parallel to the surface of the pulp cavity , to discover if this same layer of connective tissue can be seen in vaso-dentine , between the formed dentine and the pulp .
In the very characteristic vaso-dentine of the Hake ( Merlucius ) , after many failures in consequence of the specimens not having been treated when sufficiently fresh , I obtained sections of these teeth showing a well defined layer around the pulp cavity , consisting of connective tissue fibres blending with the dentine , openings being present at intervals in this layer for the passage of the numerous blood-vessels ( Plate 38 , figs. 4 and 5 ) .
In longitudinal sections these fibres are seen lining the pulp cavity from base to apex of the tooth ; they are seen to be in close apposition to the most recently formed myer of vaso-dentine matrix , and have a very well defined limit towards the pulp .
The individual fibres when examined with a high power , are wavy in outline , many of them being somewhat flattened ; they show a tendency to form arches with one STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE .
another , and the interval between the concavities of these fibres is often occupied by two or three curved ones passing from one side to the other .
Their termination towards the pulp appears abrupt , but with high powers they are seen to be attached to the stroma of the pulp by delicate fibres .
This layer is very closely applied to the blood-vessels , and in many places where a horizontal vessel traverses the pulp close to the dentine , these fibres appear to be attached to the vessel , or rather , it is involved in the meshes of the delicate pulp tissue passing from this layer to the deeper portion of the pulp .
Here and there , one of the large flattened fibres may be seen to extend beyond the others , deeply into the pulp , there dividing into several branches .
An unstained specimen shows very faint traces of cells near the dentine , but in those stained with carmine a layer of polygonal cells is visible in close apposition to the dentine .
These cells vary much in size ; they have a coarsely granular appearance , with a well-marked nucleus , and take the stain deeply .
Near the base of the tooth they form a well-marked layer and are placed closely together ( Plate 39 , figs. 1 and 2 ) , but as the apex is approached they have a more rounded outline and less definite arrangement .
Many of these cells have short processes ( Plate 39 , fig. 3 ) passing from one cell to the other , and here and there to the dentine , and very similar cells are seen scattered throughout the pulp .
_ From their close application to the dentine , their regular arrangement , and their strong resemblance to osteoblasts , I believe these cells to be intimately concerned in the calcification of the vaso-dentine matrix .
At the base of the anchylosed tooth of the Hake , cells precisely similar in appearance are seen in contact with the surface of the bone .
In an important paper by Mr. Charles Tomes " On the Structure and Development of Vascular Dentine , " published in the \#163 ; Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society ' for 1878 ( vol. 169 , Part I. ) , he gives an account of the mode of development of this tissue -which has since been generally adopted .
The author describes a layer of odontoblasts as " clothing the whole pulp , and where there is a capillary at the surface they clothe it , so that when they calcify , the capillary becomes solidly imbedded in the dentine .
" From an examination of the specimens which I have prepared , as described above , ^ I am inclined to think that much of the tissue here called odontoblasts consists of the connective tissue I have alluded to .
# Mr. Tomes has kindly lent me some of his specimens , preserved m balsam and m glycerine jelly .
In these latter preparations the great majority of the processes attached to the blood-vessels are precisely similar in appearance to the fibres I have described .
Mr. Tomes notices in his paper that the oval nucleus of the odontoblast cells is in some cases very distinct , in others indistinguishable , and says .
I have been unable to discover in what conditions this is the case .
The explanation believe is in the fact that in the teased-out specimens , the cells which play the part of odontoblasts lie here and there in the meshes of this connective tissue .
Many o 53G MR. J. H. MUMMERY ON SOME POINTS IN THE the flattened fibres look very like cells , but are distinguished by the absence of a nucleus .
I think it is these fibres which clothe the blood-vessels that are in close apposition to them in their course through the pulp tissue , and it appears highly probable that in teasing out the pulp in any fluid medium , the blood vessels would be likely to draw away with them this layer of fibres from its attachment to the dentine .
In some transverse sections which were prepared by Mr. Tomes and stained with hrematoxylin , the layer of connective tissue fibres is deeply coloured , and where these are crowded together they look very like odontoblasts , but thin sections show them to consist of fine fibres and also show the absence of nuclei at their distal extremities .
While therefore agreeing with him as to the existence of an odontoblast layer in vaso-dentine , I think that the cells are very different in form to the odontoblasts of Mammalian teeth , bearing much more resemblance to osteoblasts , and that they lie in the meshes of , and are surrounded by a layer of , connective tissue fibres in intimate connection with the dentine .
These fibres form a much more definite and sharply defined layer than in any Mammalian teeth , so much so that they have been regarded by the above-mentioned author as a peculiar odontoblast layer . .
After a reconsideration of bis own and of my specimens , Mr. Tomes agrees with me that they must be considered to be of the nature of a connective tissue .
Some of his more recent investigations on the dentine of the Cod have a strong bearing on this subject .
He finds an outer marginal layer of dentine in which bundles , like connective tissue bundles in a hyaline matrix , are plainly seen , springing from the deeper vascular part of the dentine ; these fibres are arranged radially like those surrounding the pulp cavity .
Also in transverse sections of the decalcified Hake 's tooth the dentine is often seen split up into fine fibres , likewise arranged at right angles to the surface of the pulp cavity ( Plate 39 , figs. 4 and 5 ) .
There still remains the not inconsiderable difficulty that the layer of connective tissue which I have described as surrounding the pulp of these vaso-dentine teeth , which is sharply defined and of great regularity , consists only of radial fibres ; so that we are still no nearer to an explanation of the concentric striation of vaso-dentine .
As a result of the above observations I proceeded to examine teeth for evidences of lamination in the completed dentine , or for any indications of its having been developed on a connective tissue basis .
In corroboration of this latter point , connective tissue fibres are sometimes brought into viewr in the substance of the dentine in teeth softened by caries , the acid formed in the progress of this disease dissolving out the lime-salts .
Close to the inner margin of the dentine in a case in which caries had encroached upon the pulp cavity , the appearance represented in Plate 36 , fig. 7 , is visible .
Here STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE .
the lime-salts and the tubules seem to have been dissected away , as it were , by the acid , exposing the connective tissue basis of the matrix .
As evidence of the completed dentine retaining something of a laminar structure , the following arguments may be adduced :\#151 ; 1 .
Teeth decalcified by the mineral and other acids , break up at right angles to the tubes , that is concentrically with the pulp cavity .
2 .
Teeth partially decalcified by treatment for a short time with acids sometimes exhibit this splitting in a very marked degree .
3 .
There is a faint appearance of striation ( before referred to ) in many teeth cut by the balsam process , this appearance being confined to the portion ot the dentine which has been most newly formed , nearest to the active odontoblast cells in rapidly growing teeth .
4 .
Mr. I ' .
J. Bennett , in a paper read before the Odontological Society in 1888 , described the appearances produced by the action of glycerine on dentine in which laminae were brought into view .
5 .
In several specimens of carious teeth , in the portion of dentine yet uninvaded by micro-organisms , but within the area of partial decalcification in advance of them , a minute striation is visible , bearing a very strong resemblance to the striation of voluntary muscular fibres , interrupted here and there by some rounded contours which it is somewhat difficult to explain .
6 .
In the vaso-dentine of fish , besides the lamination parallel to the surface of the pulp cavity , the dentine in decalcified specimens splits up at right angles to the pulp cavity , and bundles of fibres are seen following the same direction incorporated with the outer layers of dentine in the Cod ( above referred to ) .
Now , unless it be held that these appearances have been brought into view by the processes employed , which I think can hardly be maintained by anyone who examines the specimens , the verification of these observations must lead to some modification of the ordinarily received views of dentine development .
We can no longer look upon the matrix of dentine as being a homogeneous substance , but must regard it as composed of a reticulum of fine fibres of connective tissue modified by calcification , and where that process is complete , entirely hidden by the densely deposited lime salts .
These fibres decussate freely with one another , and I believe them to be analogous to the decussating fibres of bone .
The } are rendered visible in some instances by the slow decalcifying action of caries , as they appear to resist the action of acids more than do the lime salts .
For this layer of connective tissue surrounding the pulp and entering into the substance of the matrix I would suggest the term " odontogenic fibres , " from their great similarity to the osteogenic fibres of bone .
There are objections to the term osteo genic , as applied to these fibres in bone , as they are the scaffolding on which the bone is built up , rather than actually the genetic tissue of the bone , and the same objection * ' Transactions of the Odontological Society of Great Britain , ' vol. 21 , November .
3 z 538 MR. J. H. MUMMERY ON SOME POINTS IN THE holds good for the term odontogenic , but it is suggested as the most convenient appellation , and the one by which their analogy to the similar fibres in bone is best indicated .
In the formation of sub-periosteal bone , bundles of fibres from the periosteum are seen springing from the bone , and in the alveoli formed between these bundles the osteoblasts lie .
These periosteal fibres penetrate the bone , and can be distinctly seen in it in many places , although the great majority of them are afterwards obliterated by absorption of the bone first formed , and the formation of dense bone around the Haversian canals \#151 ; the so-called Haversian systems .
A similar appearance is seen in cementum , the fibres being visible in this tissue as Sharpey 's fibres .
( Plate 37 , fig. 6 .
) The above investigations as to the occurrence of this tissue surrounding the pulp cavity in teeth , suggest the view that these fibres are the scaffolding on which the tooth matrix is built up\#151 ; just as calcification proceeds in bone along and around the osteogenic fibres\#151 ; that they are incorporated in the matrix of the dentine by calcification , and form really the basis of its substance .
In the 'Dental Anatomy5 ( p. 62 ) , Mr. Tomes says , " Several varieties of dentine exist in which those peculiarities of structure which differentiate it from bone are less marked , so that a point is sometimes reached at which it is hard to say whether a particular structure should more rightly be regarded as dentine or as bone .
Hard or tubular dentine has always been considered least like bone in structure and in development.55 Again , on p. 176 ( loc.cit .
) , speaking of the development of osteo-dentine , the same authority says , " With the exception of the thin external layers , which are developed from a superficial layer of not very highly specialised cells , osteo-dentine is built up in a manner fundamentally different from that in which hard dentine , pliei-dentine and vaso-dentine are constructed ... ... ... Its inner surface becomes roughened by trabeculae shooting inwards into the substance of the pulp , which speedily becomes traversed completely by them , as well as by the connective tissue bundles which are continuous with them .
Osteoblasts clothe , like an epithelium , the trabeculae and the connective tissue fibres attached to them , and by the calcification of these the osteo-dentine is formed .
The process is exactly like calcification of any membrane bone , and the connective tissue bundles remind one of those which are believed to be the occasion of the formation of Sharpey 's fibres in bone .
" The appearances in dentine which I have described in the earlier part of this paper , would seem to point to a mode of development of hard or tubular dentine which in many essential points tallies with the description of the development of osteo-dentine above given , and consequently presents a strong analogy to the development of bone in membrane .
In human dentine , as I have shown , trabeculae are seen shooting inwards into the pulp from the surface of the forming dentine .
These trabecula ( sometimes exhibiting an appearance as if stiffened by the deposit of lime-salts in advance of the general line of calcification ) are continuous with the connective tissue fibres of the pulp .
These fibres and trabeculae are also in the case of hard dentine , as in that of osteo-dentine and bone , covered with cells , which in many parts thickly clothe them , and which , it is to be supposed , have similar functions to osteoblasts .
Smaller cells are intimately associated with the odontoblasts proper , the latter cells being also involved in the connective tissue stroma in continuity with the dentine , and according to the view which under the circumstances seems most reasonable , these cells together secrete a material which calcifies along the lines of the odontogenic fibres .
This view appears to be supported by the investigations into the development o vaso-dentine above recorded , for here the cells at the margin of the pulp cavity bear a strong resemblance to osteoblasts , and lie between and among the connective tissue fibres springing from the matrix , just as the osteoblasts lie between the connective tissue bundles in the calcification of sub-periosteal bone .
While convinced that the views I have advanced are correct as far as they go , acknowledge that they render some things perhaps more difficult of explanation than do those ordinarily received ; for example , the nature of the dentinal fibrils , their relation to the odontoblasts , and the share taken by them in dentine formation , were more easily explained upon the hypothesis that the matrix was formed by the direct conversion of a portion of the odontoblast .
Further investigation into the contents Of the dentinal tubes seems called for ; indeed , the usually accepted view of the origin of the fibril has not appeared satisfactory to all observers .
Professor Klein says , " However great the authorities who maintain that the cells of the outer stratum above referred to as the odontoblasts proper , send processes into the dentinal canals as the dentinal fibres , I must question the accuracy of this assertion , for I cannot find convincing e vidence of those odontoblasts doing more than producing the dentine matrix ... .
the dentinal fibres appear to me to be derived solely from ttm deeper layer of cells which are wedged in between the former."\#151 ; ' Atlas of Histology .
' " The same view was maintained by Dr. Andrews , of Boston , in a paper read before the IXth International Medical Congress at Washington .
^ _ My own observations on the relations of the dentinal fibril are as yet mcomp e e , many appearances met with being somewhat contradictory .
^ # As pointed out by many observers , there is always present in developing dentine a layer of tissue between the odontoblasts and the fully calcified matrix which is " on the borderland of calcification , " a tissue believed by those who hold the conversion view , to consist of the consolidated masses of odontoblasts prior to their calcification but which according to the view of secretion here maintained , is a material elaborated by the odontoblasts and other cells upon a connective tissue foundation .
t appeals probable that this tissue being gradually saturated by the lime-salts elaborate y the cells , becomes supersaturated at a certain distance from the secieti g , 3 z 2 process analogous to crystallisation* takes place , and the globules of calcoglobulin are deposited .
The calcification of the matrix of tubular dentine is so complete that the full formed tissue appears to be perfectly homogeneous .
A faint striation in newly formed dentine may , however , be detected , and is very marked in the incisor of the Rat before referred to ; moreover , the effects of artificial decalcification and that caused by the progress of caries are such as to render visible this indication of lamination , and point to the original development of the matrix on a connective tissue foundation .
To Mr. Charles Tomes I am much indebted for the kind assistance and valuable suggestions he has given me throughout this investigation , and my thanks are also due to the Directors of the Marine Biological Association for the kind manner in which they have supplied me with fresh specimens , preserved by special methods .
Note .
Added March 5th , 1891 .
Since communicating this paper , I have received from Vienna a paper by Professor V. von Ebner , which has a considerable bearing on the subject of the present communication .
It is entitled " Histologie der Zahne mit Einschluss der Histogenese , " and has been published recently in the * Handbuch der Zahnheilkunde ' now appearing in separate parts ( Vienna , 1890-91 ) .
Professor von Ebner says : " The dentine matrix appears to be homogeneous in sections ground in water , whilst in bone a fibrillar structure may be observed .
If , however , dentine is decalcified with hydrochloric acid in a 10 or 20 per cent , solution of common salt , one can detect in fine sections , or in thin pieces scraped off with a knife , a fibrillar structure .
In pieces that have been torn off , we sometimes obtain the fibril lie isolated .
These fibres are exceedingly fine , scarcely more than 5 fi thick " ( the diameter of the dentinal fibril being from 1*3 / x to 2*5 / x ) .
" On the whole they are very similar to those of bone and also to those of fibrous tendinous tissues .
" They swell up in alkalies and acids ; they are uniaxial and double-refractive ; in short , in everything they present the same characteristics as the glue-giving connective tissue fibres .
The fibres , as in typical bone , are united into bundles about 2 / x in diameter , not however arranged in lamellae as in bone .
The principal direc* Von Ebner considers the optical characters of Enamel and its behaviour under the action of weak acids as strong evidence of its crystalline character .
Von Ebner , ' Sitzungsberichte d. Kaiser .
Akad .
d. Wissenschaften , Wien , ' 1889 .
STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE .
tion of the bundles corresponds to the longer axis of the tooth , being by no means , however , parallel to it .
On the other hand the bundles cross each other , and mostly in planes perpendicular to the dentinal tubules .
" This author also refers to a laminar structure occasionally exhibited here and there in carious dentine , but he does not enter on the subject of dentine development or refer to any connection between the dentine and the connective tissue of the pulp ; the appearances he describes , however , in formed dentine after decalcification will , if confirmed by other observers , go far to establish the truth of the views suggested in the present paper .
Description of Plates 36-39 .
PLATE 36 .
Fig. 1 .
Human bicuspid tooth at age of 14 .
Transverse section of tooth and pulp prepared by Weil 's method , ( a ) Dentine ; ( )layer of tissue " on the borderland of calcification " ; ( c ) odontoblast layer ( the nuclei of several layers of cells visible ) ; ( w ) the clear zone , with fine fibres , described by Dr. Weil ; ( cl ) pulp , with cross sections of several blood-vessels .
Magnified 75 .
Fig. 2 .
Human bicuspid tooth , which had been only partially erupted , the apex of the root not being completed , ( a ) The last calcified portion of the dentine ; ( b ) the layer described by the same letter in fig. 1 ; this layer is much wider in proportion to the dentine than in teeth in later stages of development .
Magnified 250 .
Figs. 3 , 4 , and 5 .
Fibres springing from the dentine along the pulp margin of a Human bicuspid tooth , longitudinal section .
These fibres appear to be stiffened by calcification in advance of the mass of the dentine .
Magnified 350 .
Fig. 6 .
Fibres of the connective tissue of the pulp in continuity with the layer of the dentine which has not received its full deposit of lime salts ; at the apex of the pulp cavity of a bicuspid tooth ( Human ) longitudinal section .
Magnified 350 .
Fig. 7 .
Human molar tooth softened by caries , showing fibres in the substance of the dentine .
Magnified 200 .
PLATE 37 .
Fig. 1 .
Fine fibres in connection with the dentine on one side and the pulp on the other , which are here seen to be crowded with cells ( or cell nuclei ) .
Transverse section of pulp of crown of a bicuspid tooth ( Human ) .
Magnified 230 .
Fig. 2 .
Human bicuspid .
Transverse section of the pulp of the crown .
Processes covered with cells .
Larger cells lying in the spaces between these fibres , which appear to be the nuclei of odontoblasts .
Magnified 230 .
Fig. 3 .
Human bicuspid tooth with uncompleted root .
Longitudinal section a short distance from the open end of the root .
( Dentine exhibiting indications of transverse striation , with the advancing line of rounded and globular masses of calcoglobulin ; ( b ) the layer on the border land of calcification ; ( e ) fine fibres of the pulp blending with the last layer of the dentine ( ; ( o ) the odontoblast layer , not fully in focus ; the pulp , with its fusiform and other cells , -some of which are seen lying among the odontoblasts .
Magnified 230 .
Fig. 4 .
From a longitudinal section of tooth ( incisor ) of Rat ( Mas decumanus ) .
A narrow portion of newly-formed dentine at the growing base of the tooth .
( \#171 ; ) Dentine ; ( b ) uncompleted layer of dentine ; connective tissue incorporated with dentine , and in this position crowded with small cells .
Magnified 230 .
Fig. 5 .
Incisor of Rat ( Musdecumanus ) , longitudinal section at about the middle of the length of the tooth ; ( d ) dentine showing very marked transverse striation , the general direction of these striae being slightly oblique , in the same direction as the connective tissue fibres of the pulp incorporated with the dentine .
Magnified 175 .
Fig , 6 .
Cementum from transverse section of Human bicuspid tooth , ( g ) Granular layer ; ( s ) fibres of Sharpey penetrating the outer layer of the cementum ; ( p ) peridental membrane .
Reduced from Camera lucida drawing , ygth oil immersion ( Powell and Leland ) .
Magnified 500 .
PLATE 38 .
Fig. 1 .
Human molar tooth , oblique section .
Appearance of a reticulum of fibres at the pulp margin of the dentine forming very rounded meshes and studded with small round cells .
Magnified 350 .
Fig. 2 .
From transverse section of tusk of Elephant , ( a ) Ivory ; ( c ) connective tissue of the pulp , prepared from a dry pulp ( Dr. Miller 's specimen ) .
Mag. nified 350 .
Fig. 3 .
Secondary deposit in pulp of Elephant 's tusk , ( a ) The calcified nodule ; ( c ) connective tissue of pulp .
Magnified 350 .
, Fig. 4 .
Longitudinal section of tooth of Hake ( vulgaris ) , showing at ( d ) vaso-dentine traversed by ( 6 ) blood vessels ; ( layer of connective tissue fibres surrounding the pulp .
Magnified L50 .
Fig. 5 .
Portion of the same more highly magnified ( 700 diameters ) , to show the connective tissue fibres ( f ) , and their relations to the dentine ( d ) , and to the pulp and blood-vessels ( b ) .
STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE .
Fig. 1 .
Vaso-dentine ( Merlucius vulgaris ) ; ( d ) vaso-dentine traversed by bloodvessels ; ( c ) a layer of cells in close apposition to the dentine .
Magnified 350 .
Fig. 2 .
The same cells more highly magnified .
Magnified 700 .
Fig. 3 .
Some of the same cells at the base of the tooth , exhibiting processes .
Magnified 700 , Fig. 4 .
From a transverse section of tooth of Hake , decalcified ( Mr. Tomes ' specimen ) ; ( d)vaso-dentine splitting into fibres ; ( c ) layer of connective tissue fibres in pulp ; ( b ) a blood-vessel .
Magnified 75 .
Fig. 5 .
From the same preparation as fig. 4 , more highly magnified .
Magnified 700 .
Description of unpublished Photo-micrographs Deposited with the Royal Society .
No. I. t Fig. 1 .
From a transverse section of a bicuspid tooth ( Human ) , prepared by Weils balsam process , stained with borax-carmine , ( a ) Dentine ; ( b ) tissue " on the border-land of calcification " ; ( c ) pulp with odontoblast layer .
Magnified 200 diameters , ^-inch objective ( Swift ) .
Fig. 2 .
Transverse section of one cornu of the pulp of a young bicuspid tooth ( Human ) .
Magnified 75'diameters , ^-inch objective ; stained with borax carmine .
No. II .
Process or bundles of fibres which are seen to spring from the dentine ( a ) and in the calcified portion of which they appear incorporated ; from the margin of the pulp cavity of a Human bicuspid tooth ( age 14 ) , unstained .
Fig. 1 .
Magnified 200 diameters , ^-inch objective ( Swift ) .
Fig. 2 .
One of the processes more highly magnified , 500 diameters , Powell and Leland oil immersion yg .
No. III .
Other similar bundles from the same preparation .
Magnified 320 diameters , Zeiss apochromatic objective 3 mm. , dry .
No. 111a .
Fig. 1 .
Similar bundles at apex of pulp cavity .
Magnified 320 .
Figs. 2 ( magnified 200 ) and 3 ( magnified 75 ) .
From the middle of the length of the tooth .
No. IV .
Fig. 1 .
From the margin of the pulp cavity in the crown of a Human bicuspid ( age 14 ) .
( a)Dentine ; ( b ) fine fibres between the dentine and the main body of the pulp , crowded with nuclei near the dentine .
Magnified 320 diameters , Zeiss apochromatic 3 mm. Fig 2 .
Reticular appearance at the margin of the dentine in a Human molar tooth ( longitudinal section ) , the dentine is cut obliquely , and viewed from beneath .
numerous cells are seen upon the septa and lying in the interspaces .
Magnified 200 diameters , pinch objective ( Swift ) .
( This preparation is not a suitable one for photography and is better represented by the drawing , Plate 38 , fig. 1 ) .
No. V. Human bicuspid tooth .
Transverse section .
Showing processes in the pulp ( b ) connected with the dentine ( a ) and crowded with cells .
Figs. 1 and 2 .
Magnified 200 diameters , ^ inch ( Swift ) .
No. VI .
Figs. 1 and 2 .
Human tooth ( bicuspid ) .
Longitudinal section close to uncompleted apex of growing tooth .
( a ) Newly calcified dentine showing minute transverse markings , more plainly seen in fig. 3 ; ( layer of uncalcified matrix ( in this young condition of the tooth of great proportional width ) ; ( c ) pulp with large odontoblast and other cells .
( In the photographs the objective has been focussed on the connective processes at the margin of the dentine , the odontoblasts being slightly out of focus .
) Zeiss apochromatic 3 mm. Magnified 320 diameters .
No. VII .
Figs. 1 and 2 .
Longitudinal section of incisor tooth of Rat ( decumauus ) , ( a)Enamel ; ( b ) dentine ; ( c )lamination in dentine ; connective tissue of pulp incorporated in the dentine .
Magnified 250 diameters , pinch objective ( Swift ) . .
No. VIII .
Fig. 1 .
Transverse section from tusk of Elephant , from a dried specimen , afterwards softened and mounted in balsam ( Dr. Miller 's specimen ) .
Magnified 320 diameters .
Zeiss apochromatic 3 mm. objective .
STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE .
Fig. 2 .
Pulp-stone or secondary deposit from pulp of same tusk , showing the incorporation of the connective tissue of the pulp with this tissue .
( ) Dentine ; ( p ) pulp .
Magnified 320 diameters , Zeiss apochromatic 3 mm. objective .
No. IX .
Vaso-dentine .
Tooth of Hake ( Merlucius vulgaris ) .
Fig. 1 .
Longitudinal section .
( a ) Vascular dentine traversed by blood-vessels ; ( b ) layer of connective tissue fibres in contact with the dentine and lining the pulp cavity .
Magnified 300 diameters , 4 mm. apochromatic ( Zeiss ) .
Fig. 2 .
From the margin of the pulp cavity at the base of the tooth of a Hake\#151 ; showing cells , many of which have short processes lying upon the pulp surface of the dentine .
( a ) Dentine with blood-vessels ; ( b ) cells .
Magnified 320 diameters , 3 mm. apochromatic ( Zeiss ) .
No. X. Fig. 1 .
Appearance of fibres in the substance of the dentine near the pulp cavity in a molar tooth ( Human ) softened by caries .
Magnified 200 diameters , yinch objective ( Swift ) .
Fig. 2 .
Transverse splitting of human tooth at right angles to the tubes , caused by the action of formic acid .
Magnified 175 diameters , \#163 ; inch .
No. XI .
Fig. 1 .
Root of Human bicuspid , transverse section .
( a ) Granular layer of cementum ; ( b ) stained layer showing Sharpey 's fibres ; ( c ) cells and tissue of peridental membrane .
Magnified 500 diameters , Powell and LELAND ybr .
Fig. 2 .
Transverse markings in the dentine in caries within the zone of decalcification .
Magnified 500 diameters , Powell and Leland yb oil immersion .
MDcecxcr.\#151 ; b. Phil. Trans. 1891 .
B. .it 1$ , , fim - v. .
\lt ; I Fi^2 x 350 Cambridge Engravir -t *onn'*ny gmery Phil. Trans. 1891 .
B. 37 x 230 Cambridge Engraving Company .
Phil. Trans. 1891 .
B , 38 Cambridge Engraving Company .
Fig1 .
3 .
x 700

