1886 .
] Gigantic Land-Lizard ( Megalania prisca , Owen ) .
93 Secondly , " that terrestrial magnetism does not reside in any important degree on the earth 's surface " ... ... .
" and therefore the source of magnetism must lie deep."* In view of these reasons and the results obtained from the observations recorded in this paper , I draw the possible conclusion : That the increase of magnetic force observed in the islands under discussion proceeds from portions of those islands which have been raised to the earth 's surface from the magnetised part of the earth , forming the source of its magnetism .
II .
" Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land-Lizard ( .
Megalania prisca , Owen ) from Queensland , Australia , including Sacrum and Foot-Bones .
Part IV .
" By Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received January 13 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The author , continuing to receive through the kindness of Dr. Bennett , F.L.S. , of Sydney , New South Wales , and of Mr. George F. Bennett , Corr. M. Zoological Society , Toowoomba , Queensland , Australia , fossil remains of Megalania from a drift-bed of King 's Creek , selected , therefrom specimens contributing to the restoration of Meg .
prisca , and which he had not obtained at the dates of communication of the papers to the Royal Society which have appeared in the " Phil. Trans. " for the years 1864 , 1880 , and 1881 .
These specimens add to the characters of the sacrum , and give those of the terminal segment of one of the limbs of the extinct horned Saurian .
The metapodial series are remarkable for the great breadth in proportion to the length of the bone ; that of one of the digits being as broad as long , and testifying to its character as a metatarsal by the distal trochlea for the articulation of a proximal phalanx .
The digits were unguiculate , indicative of terrestrial life and locomotion .
The subjects selected for description in the present paper are illustrated by drawings of the natural size , which accompany the text .
* See idem , p. 101 , par .
44 .

