On the Reduction to a Vacuum of Captain Kater 's convertible Pendulum .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Artillery , Secretary to the Royal Society .
Read June 18 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829,. .
331 .
] Recent investigations having shown that the method employed by Captain Kater for the reduction of his experiments on the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds in air , to that of the same pendulum in vacuo , was founded on erroneous principles , the author undertook to ascertain , by direct experiment , the actual difference of the number of vibrations of the pendulum employed by Captain Kater , in air of ordinary density , and in highly rarefied air .
The alteration of density in the medium in which the pendulum is swung , would , in the first place , if its form were not symmetrical , affect its convertibility ; that is , the same adjustment of the axes which gave an equality of oscillations in reversed positions , when vibrating in air , would not afford the same equality in a more rarefied medium .
It follows also , from the corrected investigation , that the amount of the retardation occasioned by the air is considerably greater than what had been originally computed from the simple consideration of buoyancy .
These inferences have been fully confirmed by the experiments of Captain Sabine .
The increase in the number of vibrations per diem with the convertible pendulum as it was used by Capt. Kater , that is , vibrating with the great weight below , in vacuo , above those in air of the temperature of 490 , under a pressure of 30 inches of mercury at 32 ?
, was 15 71 : when inverted , the other conditions remaining the same , the increase was 16 13 vibrations per diem .
Captain Kater had observed that considerable changes in the hygrometric state of the atmosphere destroyed the convertibility of his pendulum , from their affecting the weight of the pieces of wood at both of its ends .
In order to remove this source of error , and also to ascertain its amount , the author first reduced the wooden tailpieces from 17 inches , their original length , to 6A4 inches .
The increase of the number of vibrations was then , with the great weight above , 14*91 , and with the great weight below , 12-41 per diem .
When the wooden tail-pieces were wholly removed , and slips of brass substituted for them , the increase was further reduced , in like circumstances , to 12*83 in the former case , and 11 58 in the latter ,

